PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

Alton James

Chairperson

Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

30

Brenda Goss Andrews

Lisa Whitmore Davis
David Esparza, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

Qtity at Eetmtt

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
c-mail: cpc@detroitmi. gov 

February 8, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: The request of Fusco, Shaffer Pappas, Inc. (Petition N0. 642) on the behalf of its client,
NSO Properties, to amend Article XVII, District Map 12 of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
Chapter 61, Zoning by modifying the existing PD (Planned Development District) zoning
classi?cation established by Ordinance No. 12?17 on land bounded by Mack Avenue to the

north, Ellery Street to the east, Ludden Street to the south, and Elmwood Avenue to the west.
(STATUS REPORT MINOR MODIFICATION GRANTED)

On January 10, 2019 the City Flaming Commission voted to authorize the minor modi?cation of the
previously approved site plans for the N80 permanent supportive housing development slated to be
developed at Mack Avenue and Ludden Avenue in the McDougall-Hunt neighborhood. This report
is being submitted so that Your Honorable Body remains fully aware of the actions taken by the
Commission in this regard. Given that the modi?cations to the site plan were ?minor? no further
action is needed from Your Honorable Body.

NATURE OF REQUEST

The CPC has received the request of Fusco Schaffer Pappas Inc. on behalf of the its client,
Neighborhood Service Organization (N SO), to amend Article XVII, District Map 12, of the 1984
Detroit City Code Chapter 61, Zoning by modifying the existing PD (Flamed Development
District) zoning classi?cation established by 0rd. 12-17 on 3.16 acres of land generally bounded
by Mack Avenue to the north, Ellery Street to the east, Ludden Street to the south, and Elmwood
Avenue to the west. NSO was previously approved in March of 2017 to develop permanent
housing, an emergency shelter with supportive services and accessory uses on the subject
property. Subsequently in April of 201 8 a minor modi?cation to the approved site plans was
approved.

This item was resubmitted to the City Planning Commission for further modi?cation in January
of 2019 given the unforeseen circumstances of a short fall in revenue due to the Illitch?s failure
to the follow through on the purchase of the current NSO facility (Tumaini Center) at Third
Street and Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd., as well as the unexpected $1.2 million additional cost
associated with building the previously approved multi-use site plans to the State of Michigan?s
building code standards.

BACKGROUND

The Tumaini Center is presently at 3450 Third Avenue just south of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Blvd. providing an emergency shelter and supportive service for the City of Detroit?s homeless
population. For the past seven to eight years they have sought to relocate the Tumaini Center
and develop a larger facility providing the same and greater services. As previously stated due to

Page 1 of3

funding considerations NSO has had to revise its plans for the subject prOperty. The project
previously identi?ed as the Sanctuary is now known as the Clay Apartments in honor of the
organization?s outgoing Executive Director, Sheilah Clay.

PROJECT PROPOSAL

N80 is now proposing to construct a 37,167 sq. ft. facility, rather than the previously approved
67,683 sq. ft. facility. The proposed facility is anticipated to provide 42 units of permanent
supportive housing to the homeless population in a two story structure. The intended land use is
identi?ed as ?single-room-occupancy (SRO) housing?, which is permitted legislatively in the PD
zoning district.

The permanent supportive housing will provide forty?two (42) 1 bedroom apartments with
supporting amenities. The permanent supportive housing apartments will have a main entry at
the ?rst ?oor with the units and amenities to be housed on both the ?rst and second ?oors.

As previously approved the cladding of the proposed building is brick and metal panel of varied
colors and texture/pattems. However the limestone color has been removed as an option given
that the structure has gone from three-stories to two. Exterior to the structure, the grounds would
provide a 77 space surface parking lot rather than the previously approved 94 space surface lot,
outdoor recreation facilities, security walls and heavily landscaped areas including rain gardens.

The permanent supportive housing apartments will also have a range of amenities such as a
community center, library, computer center, lounge spaces, and ?tness center. A basketball half
court, horse shoes courts and a picnic area will be among outdoor activities available. The
previously approved amphitheater has been removed from the site plans.

SURROUNDING LAND USE AND ZONING

To the North institutional, parking and residential/commercial and scattered vacant land
beyond B2 (Local Business and Residential District)

To the South residential R2 (Two-Family Residential District)

To the East commercial service/of?ce/vacant land beyond, B2

To the West commercial retail and of?ce/residential? B2, B4 (General Business District)

COMMUNITY MEETING

NSO has hosted several community meeting seeking feedback and reaction to this PD
modi?cation. Given that the changes represent a reduction in the size, density and scope from the
approved project, the Commission does not anticipate any further issues or concerns from the
community. We hope to have a staff member present to monitor the proceedings of ongoing
community meetings with the McDougall-Hunt CDC and host community.

ANALYSIS

As alluded to above, the proposed modi?cation results in a smaller scale structure and less
intensive operation than what was originally approved. The two story con?guration is even more
compatible with surrounding building heights and facades. Greater building mass with a two and
half story facade at the corner of Mack and Elmwood are employed and announces the main
entrance and retains the building?s hierarchy in form. The uses of the subject property have been
reduced resulting in the volume of those uses and the volume of clients they were to serve being
reduced as well.

Page 2 of 3

At the ground plane the site plan has been modi?ed from what was originally approved. The
outdoor amenities, landscaping and fencing have a drastically altered layout and appearance
given the removal of the outdoor amphitheater. Given the recon?guration of the site, the
Commission would recommend that the interior landscaping of the parking area be more in line
with the standards as set forth in Sec. 61-12-219 for Off-street parking areas.

CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .

In review of these provisions of Section 61-3-97 of the zoning ordinance which provides th
criteria for determining whether a proposed PD modi?cation is major or minor, only criterion 1
gives the Commission reason to pause. The character of the use or activity remains the same, but
the appearance has changed with loss of the eastern portion of the facility. However, the basic
form, architecture and material pallette remain the same. The criterion must be assessed on a
case by case basis and for the reasons given above, the Commission does not ?nd that it has been
violated. Therefore, we conclude that the proposed PD modi?cation meets the measure to be
declared a minor change and recommends approval with the following conditions:

1. The site plan shall be revised to show interior landscaping consistent with the
standards set forth in Sec. 61-12-219 for Off?street parking areas;

2. Prior to making application for applicable permits, ?nal site plans, elevations,
landscaping, lighting and signage plans shall be submitted to the City Flaming
Commission staff for review and approval for consistency with the plans
approved by the City Council.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES,
CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr, Director
George A. Etheridge, Staff

Attachments:
Site Plans

Page 3 of 3

CLAY APARTMENTS

DETROIT, MI

INDEX To DRAWINGS
TITLE SHEET PROJECT INFORMATION
5C1 SITE CONTEXT PLAN
5m ARCHITECTURAL SITE 
Wlmwu AI FIRST FLOOR PLAN
. .  . A2 CONCEPT ELEVATIONS
A, . .rvy- . - ., CI BOUNDARY AND TOPO SURVEY

. 

 

CLAY APARTMENTS

MICHIGAN

PDSUWON UFMIE
DEW ll ma

T51

 

I I 
"5 (1141: ml?L?n
Mu u-Liw o-
ngurl'

4
.F

1? HEW-CLAY APARTMENTS

HIGHIGIN

'Hlf'T-Hll


5115 CONTEXT PLAN NDSCALE


NOHH

 

 

 

 

 

  

  
 

 

Ry
?manna 
(P Imam)
0" 
mm
MACK AVE (55' WIDE)

mm? 
. I'Wf??l?mun?'1? a} - JET.

Hm: . a
Innammumma I-a
unnunuu
CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN 
. mm; ?g Ham
Noam I norm :3 Ivan: murmur mum? 
who? tmuwwmnu 
MALL INTENSITY AND r$n 'Wm. 
NOTED As REQUIRED on ALLOWABLE Is BASED 
ON R-4 IONING STANDARDS WW 119?-

gar-m: 
Willi-In a: an?:
IIAI a

BUILDING DATA
I I. w. Hunt ?0-5
?m
i Magnum, "lme CLAY APARTMENTS
alum! 
man I.. II I?ll" ll.
. powwu
I: Ducal-2  am
[1

II
unsmlunr-nrl

SP1

 

IF:

m:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if:
A, TYPICAL
4? FIRST FLOOR PLAN :cmennv-r-o" m' 70' 43' SCAmen-r-o' ?Emunw
 ti Icr 70' 

CLAY APARTMENTS

MICHIGAN
Illik?l?l?u- 





 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET FRONT STREET FRONT .
ELEVATION AVE. am uw-m- ELEVATION ELMWOOD (WEST SIIJEJ Hemp-m-
- 5 I a
maul-IN m? 
l?u?ll I. I 
. '1 

?u urlnl 3 gr ?mu-1- 
REAR ELEVATION LUDDEN STREET SIDE) 1M SIDE ELEVATION (EAST SIDE) mum-mm-
if 2v: 3 i- 

 

 

5- PARTIAL STREET FRONT
ELEVATION GRATIOT AVE. 

 

a- In- :1 In



CLAY APARTMENTS

MICHIGAN

UPDME


A2

 



 

 
 
  
   
       
     
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 

IIHHI IDEIOMHHI

I Inn: um Lcun an, uni mlra Inn:rwm 

 

 

     
   
  
   
  
   

an .
ulo?? weuu?nvomlnu a?


   

'Wl-I?m huh-UHF!
nIJ-nd 

a ?nu-II .-

Il? OI

mgn-m-qu-M-m ?pa-u -
um

I
"Inii.?


 

 


I
1!
8


a

.-. 

MACK AVENUE 56' WD. (PUBLIC)
'11

   

 

 

     
 
  

 

 

    
  
   
   
      
     
    
     


I 9-: nun-awnLUDDEN STREET 50' VD (PUBUC)

 

 

 

 

          
      
   

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?Fl: 
anImsn . . - . mun-u 
- -
n-u'uur nun-p1- munI?llul ?1.1mm MM: mun-01mm! A .. r. 
ucmnucmlw maulm can-u umdim-minno? A u. .. 
gut-lune IV Ecw-an u. I
arr a mum nun! an mun-z nvulul arr-or. nun gun-aunt-u I A .
a In? yum?m .., 
Immn-m-L . I . nu . 
"In" Luau mulmr Lnnan-m Inf-v 0:01 A my manI?mmum,
out aluminum-p?u?mu-n
- - awn-Imnmun:
an,"
menu-nun nun- a-n
n4; urn-m mu.) an: an mun-us
mains?um 
Imr.?tlb?ill?tn lu- rum-m In-uv-I-I-I-nu-n
?mmw?mmw?. Inn?mun mum?s-unant-
I Wmigms BOUNDARY AND TOFOGRAPHIC SURVEY
I SW Nso SERVICE CENTER
nrnm, ul mm ncmot m-sm

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG CENTER

2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 
(313) 224?1310


CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

 

 

 

 

January 31,2019

Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Second Amended and Restated Memorandum of Understanding
City of Detroit and Detroit Land Bank Authority

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit (?City?) has engaged the Detroit Land Bank Authority to perform
certain services for the City, which the DLBA is well suited to address by its structure and powers
granted under Public Act 258 of 2003, to meet the evolving needs of the City and its residents in
stabilizing Detroit neighborhoods, addressing challenging market failures, ?ghting blight and
promoting economic growth. To de?ne the scope and manner of the services, the City and DLBA
entered into that certain Memorandum of Understanding dated March 14, 2014 that was amended
and restated by a First Amended and Restated Memorandum of Understanding approved by Detroit
City Council on May 5, 2015 (the 

The City and DLBA now wish to further amend the MOU with a Second Amended and Restated
Memorandum of Understanding that extends the term, provides for the transfer of certain
properties between the City and the DLBA and provides additional clarity on certain other
language contained in the current MOU. As such, we hereby request that your Honorable Body
adopt the attached resolution that: (1) approves the Second Amended and Restated Memorandum
of Understanding and (2) approves certain property transfers between the City and the DLBA.



Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

Respectfully submitted,

 
  

4:5

..

I


   

Maurice D. Cox
Director

CC:

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves that certain
Second Amended and Restated Memorandum of Understanding by and between the City of Detroit (?City?)
and the Detroit Land Bank Authority that is attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit
A (the and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Mayor, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute the and be it
further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the transfers of certain City-owned properties to
the DLBA as authorized and further described in the and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Planning and Development Department Director, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute quit claim deeds and such other documents that may be necessary or
convenient to complete such property transfers to the and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department has
reviewed the environmental conditions of certain properties the City wishes to acquire from the Detroit
Land Bank as described in the MOU and, in accordance with Chapter 2, Article I, Division 2 of the Detroit
City Code: (1) the City Council ?nds that such properties have received appropriate environmental inquiry
in accordance with the review referred to above; (2) the environmental inquiry has shown that past use of
such properties for the period investigated has been for residential purposes and that such properties do not
pose an adverse environmental impact, therefore none of such properties are considered a facility; and (3)
the City Council finds and declares that the preservation of the promotion of the public health, safety,
welfare or good outweighs the cost of the environmental inquiry and therefore waives the requirement that
the seller bear the cost of the environmental inquiry; and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the City?s acceptance of those certain DLBA-
owned properties as authorized and further described in the and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to accept quit claim deeds
from the DLBA as may be necessary or convent to complete such property transfers to the City; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any required
instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim deeds (including
but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of
particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due
to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the properties
authorized and further described in the MOU, provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance
or terms of the transfers authorized by the and be it further

RESOLVED, that the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer be and is hereby authorized to increase the necessary
accounts and honor expenditures, vouchers and payrolls when presented in accordance with this resolution
and the MOU.

EXHIBIT A

SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

Between the City of Detroit and the
Detroit Land Bank Authority

This Second Amended and Restated Memorandum of Understanding (this is
entered into this day of 2019 between the City of Detroit (the ?City?) and the
Detroit Land Bank Authority (the ?Detroit Land Bank?).

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the Detroit Land Bank was created by the City and the Michigan Land Bank
Fast Track Authority (the "tale Authority?) pursuant to that certain Intergovernmental Agreement
dated September 15, 2008, as amended and restated from time to time, by and between the City
and the State Authority to provide a separate authority to acquire, develop and re-sell land located
in the City of Detroit in accordance with Public Act 258 of 2003 (the The current
organizational structure of the Detroit Land Bank is attached hereto as Exhibit and

WHEREAS, the City has previously determined that the City?s endemic blight creates a
public nuisance and constitutes a ?Blight Emergency?, as described in the Emergency Manager
for the City of Detroit Order No. 15 ?Order Suspending Certain City Wrecking Requirements to
Address Blight? issued on August 29, 2013; and

WHEREAS, the Detroit Land Bank is well suited by its structure and powers granted under
the Act to remain nimble to meet the evolving needs of the City and its residents by adjusting
current programs, or creating new ones, to help stabilize Detroit neighborhoods, address
challenging market failures, fight blight and promote economic growth (the Programs?).
A current list and brief description of certain significant DLBA Programs are attached hereto as
Exhibit and

WHEREAS, the City wishes to engage the Detroit Land Bank and the Detroit Land Bank
wishes to perform certain work under certain DLBA Programs that serve and enhance the
policies of the City and help to eliminate blight in Detroit in exchange for the City providing certain
supplemental funding to the Detroit Land Bank; and

WHEREAS, the City and Detroit Land Bank entered into that certain Memorandum of
Understanding dated March 14, 2014 (?Original that was amended and restated by a First
Amended and Restated Memorandum of Understanding (the ?First Restated approved by
Detroit City Council on May 5, 2015 to accomplish such wishes of the parties; and

WHEREAS, the purpose of this MOU is to amend and restate the Original MOU and First
Restated MOU such that this MOU shall serve as an enforceable contract that de?nes the scope
and manner of certain services to be provided to the City by the Detroit Land Bank; and

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual undertakings of the parties, each of
which agrees to be bound by the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, it is hereby

agreed as follows:

1.

incorporation of Recitals. The foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as terms of this
MOU as though fully restated in this Paragraph 1.

The Original MOU and First Restated MOU are hereby amended and restated in their
entirety by this MOU and this MOU shall supersede and replace both the Original MOU
and First Restated MOU in all respects.

Term. The term of this MOU shall commence March 14, 2014 and shall expire on June
30, 2023.

The Detroit Land Bank Duties. The Detroit Land Bank is responsible for performing
the following under this MOU:

a. On February 18, 2014, City Council adopted a resolution that authorizes the Detroit
Land Bank to exercise the power to abate public nuisances by pursuing any action
legally available (?Nuisance Proceedings?). Furthermore, such resolution provides
that in the event the outcome of any such Nuisance Proceeding is in favor of the
Detroit Land Bank, title to the subject property shall vest with the Detroit Land
Bank. The Detroit Land Bank shall continue to be responsible for the maintenance
and upkeep of any properties it takes title to pursuant to any Nuisance Proceedings,
subject to available funding.

In furtherance of the Nuisance Proceedings, the City was required to deposit Two
Million and 00/100 Dollars into a designated ?Title lnsurance
Escrow Account? in December 2017 to be used to address third party claims related
to any Nuisance Proceedings. The City hereby rati?es the prior creation,
expenditures and agreements for such account and authorizes the City?s Chief
Financial Officer to enter into and execute any and all agreements and escrow
documents and authorize disbursements that are necessary or convenient to
administer the Title Insurance Escrow Account.

b. As part of the DLBA Programs, the Detroit Land Bank shall be responsible for
operating and administering a demolition program (the ?Demolition Program?).
Demolition has proven to be a necessity for some of the long-deteriorated housing
stock acquired by the Detroit Land Bank from the City and other sources.

The Detroit Land Bank?s Demolition Program shall be responsible for the
administration of Federal Hardest Hit Funds (the for use in demolishing
properties in the City. HHF has a limit of $25,000 per property. In order to remove
dangerous buildings that threaten public health and safety, the demolition of which
may exceed such HHF per property limit, the City is hereby authorized to pay the
Detroit Land Bank, as further conditioned below, to cover the difference in

demolition related costs above the HHF limit. In order to be paid for such costs,
the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer must grant prior approval to the Detroit Land
Bank and the Detroit Land Bank shall provide the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer
with invoices and supporting documentation in a form and manner acceptable to
the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer.

The Detroit Land Bank shall provide the City with mutually agreed upon services
and/or activities necessary or convenient to the City to address blight remediation
(?Blight Services?) in Detroit. Any such Blight Services shall require the prior
approval of the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer.

. The Detroit Land Bank will endeavor to assist in economic development projects
and opportunities, when requested to do so by City departments or agencies.

The Detroit Land Bank shall operate and maintain an Inventory Management
system that includes a property database (the ?Dalabase?), which currently utilizes
the Salesforce platform, and involves both a physical component of maintenance as
well as a clerical or administrative component of identifying and removing issues
preventing property from being returned to productive use. Additionally, the
Detroit Land Bank shall work cooperatively with the City, including providing the
City certain access to the Database, to track through the Database public ownership
of properties and the City?s sales of real property.

For any real property that is received by the Detroit Land Bank from the City, the
Detroit Land Bank shall seek the approval of the Mayor and City Council prior to
the subsequent transfer of ten (10) or more of such parcels to the same transferee
within any rolling 12-month period.

. The Detroit Land Bank shall adhere to the City?s Master Plan, Detroit Zoning
Ordinance and any other land use plans adopted by the City.

. As directed by the City?s Planning Development Department, the Detroit Land
Bank shall continue to abide by any other contracts previously entered into by the
City?s Planning Development Department for any parcels subsequently acquired
by the Detroit Land Bank from the City.

The Detroit Land Bank will facilitate the sale or short- or long-term lease of vacant
land for urban agricultural use, including an urban garden or farm, in compliance
with the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

The Detroit Land Bank will facilitate the sale or lease of land for community land
trusts or cooperatives, should the City adopt such a policy.

k. At the invitation of a Detroit City Council Member, the Detroit Land Bank will

participate in no more than two (2) community meetings for each Detroit City
Council Member per year.

Detroit Land Bank will provide a liaison for direct communications with Detroit
City Council Members and their staff.

The Detroit Land Bank will offer its side lots ("Side Lots?) for sale at the purchase
price of One Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($100.00) each. The Detroit Land Bank
will seek the approval of City Council prior to increasing such purchase price for
Side Lots.

The Detroit Land Bank agrees to continue to provide the City quarterly written
summaries of the work performed by the Detroit Land Bank in conducting its
DLBA Programs, the most recent quarterly summary is attached hereto as Exhibit
C.

5. The City Duties. The City is responsible for performing the following under this MOU:

a.

Compensation for services provided in the MOU and other Detroit Land Bank
operations shall be in such amounts as are approved by the City Council for blight
remediation services, and any other relevant services, for each respective City of
Detroit ?scal year budget of this MOU.

Demolition Advance l-?und. On March 10, 2015, City Council adopted a resolution
that authorized the City, with the approval of the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer, to
create a Demolition Advance Fund for the Detroit Land Bank in an amount not to
exceed of Twenty Million and 00/ 100 Dollars (the ?Demolition
Advance Fund?).

 

In recognition of the signi?cant delays by the Michigan State Housing
Development Authority in providing reimbursement to the Detroit
Land Bank for demolition costs funded by HHF under the Detroit Land Bank?s
Demolition Program, the City created the Demolition Advance Fund to help make
it possible for the Detroit Land Bank to make timely payments to contractors that
are performing demolition work under the Demolition Program to avoid potential
shut-downs or substantial delays in the Demolition Program. The Demolition
Advance Fund allows the Detroit Land Bank to receive from the City not more than
$20 million in outstanding advances at any time, which advances can be utilized by
the Detroit Land Bank solely for cash ?ow to make payments to third parties,
providing demolition related contract services under the HHF Demolition Program,
and which advances shall be repaid by the Detroit Land Bank within forty-?ve (45)
business days of receiving the ?nal draw down of HHF dollars from MSHDA.

The City shall operate such Demolition Advance Fund pursuant to the March 10,
2015 resolution and the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer is hereby authorized to enter

4

into and execute any and all agreements and loan documents with the Detroit Land
Bank that are necessary or convenient to administer the Demolition Advance Fund.
All such prior agreements and loan documents entered into by the City?s Chief
Financial Of?cer to administer the Demolition Advance Fund are hereby rati?ed
and confirmed approved by this MOU.

c. In recognition of the City?s buying power and economies of scale, the City shall
provide the Detroit Land Bank use of the services of certain City departments in an
effort to reduce the overall cost of public expenditures. Such use of services of
certain City departments may include, but is not limited to: (1) Detroit Land Bank?s
utilization of the City?s experience and capacity to monitor demolition contracts;
(2) the Detroit Land Bank?s utilization of the City?s contract procurement systems,
now known as with assistance from the City?s Chief Procurement Of?ce;
and (3) the Detroit Land Bank?s partnership with the City?s General Services
Department for maintenance of certain properties in the City.

(1. In support of the Detroit Land Bank?s efforts to clear title of abandoned properties
to return them to a productive reuse that generates tax revenue for the City, the City
hereby discharges and releases any and all lis pendens that were executed by the
City?s Buildings, Safety Engineering Environmental Department on or before
12/31/2008 for properties that are owned by Detroit Land Bank during the term of
this MOU. The City hereby authorizes the Detroit Land Bank to record an
instrument with the Wayne County Register of Deeds to evidence such discharges
and releases approved by this MOU. Any such instrument shall be in a standardized
form that is approved by the City?s Law Department.

6. Property 'l'ransfers. As part of the DLBA Programs, the Detroit Land Bank?s
Disposition programs are aimed at encouraging homeownership, occupancy and
responsibility for vacant property, as well as at increasing the City?s tax base. The
Detroit Land Bank is ideally situated to dispose of property due to its special powers
granted under the Act that allow the Detroit Land Bank to expedite the clearing of title
and negotiate sales in order to return land to the City?s tax rolls in a responsible and
expeditious manner. Examples of disposition programs to date include the
BuildingDetroit.org Auction, the Side Lot Sales, and the Community Partnership
Program for nonpro?t and faith-based organizations as further described in the attached

Exhibit B.

The City has already consolidated the public ownership of certain residential parcels of
real property through multiple City Council resolutions authorizing the transfer of
certain residential parcels to the Detroit Land Bank for the Detroit Land Bank?s resale
to reduce blight in the City and strengthen and revitalize the economy of the City. All
prior transfers authorized by the Original MOU and First Restated MOU are rati?ed
and con?rmed approved by this MOU.

Furthermore, certain properties currently owned by the Detroit Land Bank are required
by the City.

Consistent with the above statements and the City?s efforts to consolidate the public
ownership of certain residential parcels in the Detroit Land Bank, the City?s Planning
Development Department is hereby authorized to do the following:

(1) to transfer to the Detroit Land Bank all of the City?s right, title and interest, for no
consideration, in certain residential parcels that are listed in the attached Exhibit 
and

(2) to accept transfers from the Detroit Land Bank of all of the Detroit Land Bank?s
right, title and interest, for no consideration, in certain parcels of property that are
listed in the attached Exhibit E.

Invoicing Requirements. On a periodic basis, no more often than the Detroit
Land Bank Authority shall provide invoices and supporting documentation in a form
and manner reasonably acceptable to the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer for payments
due to the Detroit Land Bank as provided for in this MOU.

 

Audits, Monitoring, Record Keeping and Reports. The Detroit Land Bank shall make
available all books, documents, papers, records (herein collectively called ?Records?)
and project sites directly pertinent to this MOU for monitoring, audits, inspections,
examinations and making excerpts and transcriptions by the City (including the City?s
Auditor General), MSHDA, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development,
and the Comptroller General of the United States, at all reasonable times. The Detroit
Land Bank shall make available all such Records?for itself, its demolition contractors,
and, moving forward, for any new contractors and subcontractors?in their entirety,
including all identifying labels and case names, with no deletions, for all such
monitoring, audits, inspections, examinations, and making of excerpts and
transcriptions. The Detroit Land Bank shall keep full and complete records
documenting all services performed under this MOU including, but not limited to,
records of all activities performed pursuant to this MOU and all ?nancial records
associated therewith. The Detroit Land Bank shall provide the City with monitoring
access to the site of any demolition performed hereunder. All ?nancial Records
pertinent to this MOU shall be kept in accordance with generally accepted accounting
practices. The Detroit Land Bank shall keep a property inventory for all property
received in whole or in part from the City of Detroit, consistent with all Federal
property management requirements.

. Indemni?cation. The Detroit Land Bank shall indemnify and hold harmless the City
and its of?cials, employees and agents from any and all liability, loss, claim, damage,
cost and expense arising from or related to this MOU, including, without limitation,
any performance or non?performance by the Detroit Land Bank, its directors, of?cers,
employees, agents or af?liates of any obligations or activities under this MOU or in
furtherance of the objectives of the MOU. The Detroit Land Bank shall bear all costs
associated with the defense of the City and its of?cials, employees and agents against
any claim for which the Detroit Land Bank may be liable under this Paragraph 9. The

10.

ll.

12.

Detroit Land Bank represents and warrants that it is and will continue to be an
additional insured under the insurance coverage that is required to be provided under
all of the contracts for demolition entered into for the Demolition Program with the use
of HHF.

Con ?rmation and Rati?cation. All prior actions by the City authorized by the Original

MOU and First Restated MOU are hereby rati?ed and con?rmed approved by this
MOU.

Any change, modification or amendment of this MOU (an ?Amendincnt?), must be in
writing, signed by authorized representatives of the parties hereto and approved in
accordance with Paragraph 12 below.

This MOU shall not be effective, nor shall any Amendment be effective until all of the
following occur:

a. It has been approved by the City?s Mayor and the City Council; and

b. It has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Detroit Land Bank.

[Signatures contained on the following page]

The City and Detroit Land Bank, by and through their authorized of?cers and
representatives, have executed this MOU as follows:

Approved by Detroit City Council on:

 

 

CITY OF DETROIT

BY:

Print: Michael E. [)uggan
ITS: Mavor

 

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

 

BY:
Print: Saskia Thompson
ITS: Executive Di rector

 

 

 

Approved as to form in accordance with 
7.5-206 of the 2012 City of Detroit Charter.

Chief Procurement Of?cer

Approved by the Finance Director in
accordance with 18-5-4 of the Detroit City
Code.

 

 

Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

Finance Director

THIS MOU IS NOT VALID OR AUTHORIZED UNTIL APPROVED BY THE DETROIT
CITY COUNCIL AND SIGNED BY THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER.

EXHIBIT A
DETROIT LAND BANK ORGANIZATIONAL CHART

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
2019 Organizational Chart

 
   

Board of Directors

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Last Updated: 2/5/2019

EXHIBIT 
DETROIT LAND BANK PROGRAMS

 

Nuisance Proceedings
and Blight Abatement:

The Legal Department administers Nuisance Proceedings and
Blight Abatement programs and will endeavor to develop new legal
theories, claims and actions that will support the other blight
abatement programs. Two of the existing programs are the Nuisance
Abatement Program (NAP) and the Drug House Program. NAP identifies
blighted and abandoned property in areas of low vacancy and requests that
the interest holders abate the nuisance within a speci?ed time. If they fail
to do so, they may lose their ownership rights to the property at a court
hearing. The DLBA has a Compliance team that is responsible for
ensuring that property owners who enter into consent orders with the
DLBA comply with their requirements.

 

Title Clearance:

The DLBA reviews title information on real property in its inventory and
works with title companies to determine if the DLBA has clear title. When
necessary, the DLBA performs quiet title actions pursuant to the special
expedited quiet title powers granted Michigan land banks by statute.

 

Acquisition:

The Inventory Department oversees the acquisition of real
property primarily by accepting transfers from other government agencies,
but also through voluntary donations from financial institutions and private
residents. Acquired properties are reviewed in order to identify those that
are ready for sale, those that require demolition and those that are in need
of some additional activity quiet title to clear liens).

 

Inventory Management:

In addition to acquisition, the Inventory Department manages the 
real property inventory using, among other tools, data analysis and
pipeline management techniques, and is also responsible for property
maintenance subject to City approval and available resources. The
Department has other responsibilities, including support for all other
DLBA programs with, among other things, data analysis and their ability
to sort and map all of the DLBA property inventory.

 

Disposition:

The Disposition Department manages the sale or other transfer of
DLBA real property through a number of programs including on-line
Auction and Own-lt?Now, Nonprofit and Faith-based Community
Partners, Side Lot Sales, Rehabbed and Ready, Projects, Buy Back and
Occupied Non-Pro?t. The Department will endeavor to develop new
programs that may include sales of non?adjacent lots to residents, lease
programs, and programs seeking to further address occupied properties.
The DLBA Compliance team is responsible for ensuring that purchasers of
property from the DLBA who enter into agreements containing renovation
or development requirements do, in fact, comply with those requirements.

 

 

Demolition Programs:

 

In partnership with the Mayor?s Office, City Council and the Detroit
Building Authority, the Demolition Department reduces blight
primarily in highly populated/high density areas. radial thoroughfares and

 

 

 

commercial corridors throughout the City. The majority of demolition
projects are funded with money provided by the federal government?s
Hardest Hit Fund which is funded under the TARP program.

 

 

Community Relations
and Outreach Efforts:

 

The Community Affairs Department handles client
communication by responding to resident inquiries. They also promote the
programs and educate the citizens of Detroit about the DLBA
through proactive engagement of local media outlets as well as social
media channels. The Department is also responsible for community
outreach activities including attendance at public meetings and open
houses.

 

 

EXHIBIT 
QUARTERLY SUMMARY REPORT

.396 Bam? 40
{k 

1.0



CITY COUNCIL QUARTERLY REPORT

02 FY 2019

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

ACONTNUED PARTNERSHIP FOCUSEDDN BEING-VISIBLE EIACCESSIBLE TOTHE COMMUNITY

 

til-india-unien-ui mu

 

CITY COUNCIL QUARTERLY REPORT

02 FY 2019

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Executive Director?s Letter 1
Inventory 3
DEpo??on 19
Community Affairs 26
Demolition 34
Legal 39
Administration Operations 41

Finance 45

. ?4

i}

3?
'jzdka

hulk?ngdenui: mg

 

CITY COUNCIL QUARTERLY REPORT

02 FY 2019

 

 

 

January 15, 2019 

The Honorable Brenda Jones, President

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Activity Center, 131th Floor
Detroit, MI 48226

Subject: City Council Quarterly Report, 2nd Quarter FY 2019, Detroit Land Bank Authority
Dear Council President Jones:

I am pleased to submit this quarterly report on behalf of the Detroit Land Bank Authority. The
DLBA programs continue to work together to strengthen Detroit?s housing market and increase
overall property values. Year over year, average multiple listing sale prices increased 22% between
2017 and 2018. In 2018, there were 1,221 mortgages issued within Detroit compared to only 490
in 2017, further evidence that the housing market in our city continues to improve. The sale of lots
and structures conducted by the DBLA are an important component of this trend.
Some key highlights of our work this quarter include:
INVENTORY

I- 4,997 new side lots were made available for sale by working with the Tax Assessor's
Office to clear thousands of erroneous tax bills, and through board approval of
increasing allowable lot size to 7500 square feet.
2628 walk-in clients were served Clients served

I

a 16,783 were answered

0 Call center answer rate remains above 90 percent for 0.2.

Call center abandoned rate remains below 8 percent for 02.
DISPOSITION

This quarter we sold 159 houses through Auction and 201 houses through Own-it-Now.

A total 647 side lots sold

I Rehabbed Ready closed 3 properties bringing total sold from the start of the program to
55, with new homeowners moving into neighborhoods including Crary/St Marys, College
Park, Evergreen-Outer Drive, Bagley, East English Village, Martin Park, Green?eld-
Grandriver, and Morningside. Currently there are an additional 59 properties in the 
pipeline with 12 of those under construction.

1 Page

 

DEMOLITION

Continued a program of demolition efforts that complement strategic reinvestment and
rehabilitation, leading to signi?cant increases in property values.

Reduced the time between RFP submission and contract award from 6?8 weeks tojust 
weeks.

100% of the HHF allocation will be under contract through our procurement process or
before March 30, 2019.

In calendar year 2018 the DLBA made $32,778,966.26 in payments to contractors for the
demolition of 3,266 properties.

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS

Launched staff outreach and Parent Academy at adult education homes to
promote discount programs and demonstrate how DLBA makes homeownership
accessible to all Detroit families

Responded to more than 1,000 emails from the public on topics ranging from general
information, sales, property maintenance, community partner interest, side lots, etc.
Teamed with City's Halloween in the effort with the launch of three Rehabbed Ready
Halloween houses, providing additional outreach and opening doors to the community.

We at the DLBA take seriously our role in working to improve Detroit neighborhoods and continue
to value our partnership with the community and our elected of?cials to move our work foniva rd.

Sincerely,

Saskia Thompson
Executive Director

2 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

INVENTORY DEPARTMENT OVERVIEW

ROBERT LINN, INTERIM DIRECTOR OF INVENTORY

 

Since its founding in 2008, during the height of the housing crisis, the DLBA has been a key vehicle
in the City?s effort to promote vibrant neighborhoods and combat property abandonment. At
inception, the land bank emphasized returning properties to productive reuse through a limited
program of home rehabilitation. In 2013, however, the land bank?s charge grew to include broader
neighborhood interventions and a role as the city's owner of last resort for abandoned
property. Towards these ends, the DLBA went on to accept more than 110,000 parcels from a
variety of other public agencies, including nearly 55,000 from the City of Detroit. Some of these
properties had been in public ownership since The Great Depression, underscoring the need for a
singular organization focused on returning properties to productive reuse.

The Detroit Land Bank Authority?s Inventory Department oversees the acquisition, assessment,
and pipeline assignments for all parcels under the legal control of the DLBA per  in the land bank's
inventory. This department encapsulates and facilitates a diverse collection of functions that,
together, propel properties smoothly through the inventory assessment pipeline; returning
them to productive reuse. Currently, the department encompasses six divisions, each with unique
roles and responsibilities.

0 Acquisition: Facilitates ?owner of last resort" obligations through accepting transfers from
other government agencies the City, State, and County Treasurer, voluntary donations
from financial institutions and private residents.

a Data Management: Oversees the data analysis, including creating thematic maps,
demographic and market analyses, and maintaining DLBA internal and external data
integrity, including collaboration with City partners to share necessary real estate data,
supporting projects led by City departments. Administering the vetting and listing process
for side lot sales and other Disposition programs.

0 Inventory Management: Facilitates appropriate pipeline assignment using available
market, condition, and resident inquiry information to assess and determine whether DLBA
structures should be demolished or sold. If the property is salvageable, staff work to pair
the property with the appropriate Disposition program to maximize return to productive
reuse. Additional corollary functions include monitoring inventory for condition changes,
oversight of structure and lot maintenance, coordinating structure inspections, and
creating sale listings

0 Project Management: Coordinates DLBA activities with City agencies including, but not
limited to, the Planning and Development Department (PDD), Housing and Revitalization
Department and Department of Neighborhoods, to ensure the organization's
efforts are supportive and collaborative of City strategies. Oversees participation in many
interagency projects, including but not limited to, Bridging Neighborhoods Project, 
neighborhood studies, and the General Services Department?s park expansion planning
effort.

3 Page

 

a Client Services: Handles client communication for the organization by responding to
resident in-person inquiries at the DLBA offices and through calls placed to the
organization?s main phone line.

a Title Services: Oversees title, tax, and utility clearances for structures and lots prepared
for disposition. The team inventories and resolves delinquent tax bills, outstanding water
accounts, liens, and other encumbrances before sale to provide insurable title and
minimize issues for purchasers. Towards these ends, the team also batches properties for
quiet title.

ACQUISITION

The second quarter of 2019 was notable due to the increase in donations and decrease in
foreclosures. 75 parcels accepted as donations during the Second quarter of 2019 surpassed 0.4
2017 as the busiest quarter ever; continuing a long general growth pattern for this program.
Though donations represent a relatively small number of parcels, they often come from
institutional investors and financial institution inventories and can be difficult for residents to
access. Consequently, the DLBA believes this program is a means of improving resident access to
land.

DONATIONS ACCEPTED, BY QUARTER

.-



l.




01 2-318 02 2018 QB 2013 3018 01 2019 (12 2019

This year?s transfer of unsold 2018 tax foreclosures from the Wayne County Treasurer?s office
included 348 structures and 102 vacant lots, marking a sharp decline. Through the confluence of
increasing prevailing tax payment rates, foreclosure prevention efforts, participation in the City's

4 Page

 

right-of?refusal program, and purchaser demand at the foreclosure auction, the number of unsold
foreclosures accepted by the DLBA declined by 73.82% between calendar years 2017 and 2018.

UNSOLD 2013 TAX FORECLOSURES TRANSFERRED T0 DLBA
Freer-=51 Type Pareels__

Structures 348
Vacant Lots  102
Grand Total i 450

DATA MANAGEMENT
In furthering the objective to return properties to productive reuse, Data Management
placed special focus on two issues this quarter: improving resident access to side lots, and

understanding of the city?s housing market.

Through DLBA Inventory efforts, 4,997 new side lots were made available in OZ 2019. A close
partnership with the Of?ce of the Assessor cleared thousands of erroneous tax bills on DLBA
inventory, allowing previously-encumbered lots to be made available for disposition. Data
Management staff also supported a policy revision process that culminated In the approval of an
increased maximum allowable side lot size to 7,500 square feet; increasing side lot Disposition

program eligibility.

Understanding the city?s housing market is paramount in returning properties to productive use.
Through detailed analysis, staff intend to target DLBA programs, respond rapidly to property
changes, and to identify new programmatic opportunities. To date, two high level trends stand
out. First, despite increased national economic uncertainty, Detroit?s housing market remained
quite strong this quarter. Year over year, overall average sale prices among private market sales
listed through the MLS increased 22% between calendar year 2017 and calendar year 2018, with
traditional neighborhoods outperforming the greater downtown area. Since 2014, the market
change has been even more dramatic, as evidenced by the map below.

5 Page

 

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

CHANGE IN VALUE

(It; . lei: r.v'L' LILIL  r-vLi. ?1
ileWIICl': 11?. i 
Am a 

nan-roam)  IM?Is-lus?1??

room-7mm: ftm?unSSalnl

i

 

 



Second, the close of the second quarter of 2019 marked an important milestone in the city?s
market; for the first time in more than a decade, the city recorded more than a thousand new
purchase mortgage originations during a single calendar year. The 1,271 mortgages in calendar
year 2018 are a strong sign of market improvement, and increased confidence in the city?s housing
market among financial institutions.

6 Page

 

NEW PURCHASE MORTGAGE ORIGINATIONS, PER CALENDAR YEAR

1,400
1.200
1,000
800
600

400

2014 2015 2016 2017 2013

??Mortgages

Continuing the trend reported last quarter, sales have dramatically outpaced acquisitions,
resulting in decreased DLBA inventory. The DLBA expects this trend to continue for the foreseeable

future.

LAND BANK INVENTORY, BY YEAR

120,000
93.344 
100,000 0
18.508 ?093,921
80,000 a
60.000
-35.440
40,000
0
20,000
166
0 
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

Through acquisition, demolition, and disposition, the composition of inventory is in
constant flux. Housing demand and demolition activity are di5proportionately concentrated in
Hardest Hit Fund areas. Consequently, the inventory is slowly, but increasingly transitioning
from structures in Hardest Hit Fund areas to vacant lots outside of Hardest Hit Fund Areas.

7 Page

 

LAND BANK INVENTORY, BY AREA AND PROPERTY CLASS

 

 

Accesso Non' Residential
Residential Vacant Lots Grand Total
Structures Structures
Structures 
Non HHF 147 20 18,548 10,907 29,622
HHF 435 96 47,756 16,012 64,299
Grand Total 582 116 66,304 26,919 93,921
INVENTORY MANAGEMENT

Inventory Management [combines property condition information, zoning, market data,
neighborhood plans, and resident input to determine the best strategy for returning properties to
productive use. The team prepares properties sold through the Auction and Own?it?Now
programs, determines the sales schedule, and creates the website listings. Auction properties are
cleaned out and Property Condition reports generated providing potential buyers a minimum cost
of repairs. In addition to managing DLBA property maintenance both proactively and in response
to constituent complaints.

INVENTORY 8: DISPOSITION PIPELINE

The 27,610 structures move through Inventory?s intake, assessment, maintenance,
analysis, and programmatic identification pipelines. Structures in the Rehabbed 8: Ready, Auction,
and Own-It-Now pipelines include currently for sale, and those identified, but not yet up for sale.
Occupied properties include properties in the Buy Back program, as well as those reviewed for Buy
Back or another occupied sales program eligibility. These programs are managed by the DLBA's
Disposition Department. Properties reviewed for possible sale outside DLBA's primary disposition
programs are given 'Projects? status. Projects currently include Community Partners Program and
Bridging Neighborhoods Program. 'Salvage? structures are those determined to be salvageable but
not currently prepared for sale. If a member of the public indicates Interest in purchasing a
property identified as 'Salvage,? the DLBA will further vet the property for potential sale.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Structures - Current Status Number Percentage
Rehabbed 8: Ready 67 0.24%
Other Statuses 106 0.38%
Accessory Structures Garages) 308 1.12%
Projects 681 2.47%
Structures Under Review 1,256 4.55%
Auction 1,242 4.50%
Occupied 3,284 11.89%
Own It Now 2,525 9.15%
Salvage 6,250 22.67%
Demolition 11,888 43.03%
Total of Structures 27.617 100.00%

 

 

 

 

 

8 Page

 

During Summer 2018, the DLBA inspected nearly 7,000 properties located outside of HHF areas.
Using this new information, these properties were assigned to the appropriate pipelines and
assessed on a per-property basis for sale/rehab or demolition. using data gathered in these recent
inspections, the DLBA is working with the Detroit Building Authority identify priorities for
non-HHF demolitions where City demolition fundling is available.

in (12 2019, intervention through the sale of homes for rehab and occupation, where possible,
outside HHF zones was a focus. The DLBA identified 109 houses located outside HHF zones
available for sale through its online home sales programs, primarily Own It Now. Of which, the
DLBA received offers or closed on 43 of these homes. By comparison, 44 houses outside HHF
zones were listed for sale C11 2019 and 36 in 0.4 2018; reflecting a sizable increase in non-HHF

zone home sales.

Structures Outside of HHF Zones by
Program/Status

.?ll

II Demo Awaitirg Fundire I savage I: Own it NOW

 
   

 

In Demo Process .- Occupied - Structures Under Revuew

I Other Statuses

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Current Status Structures] Number of Properties Percentage
Demo Awaiting Fundi?g_ 3,346 30.21%
Salvageable 3,460 31.24%
Own It Now 939 8.48%

In Demo Process 1,306 11.79%
Occupied 1,108 10.00%

 

 

 

 

 

9 Page

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Structures Under Review 743 6.71%

Other Statuses 172 1.56%

Total 11,074 100%
AUCTION

The Auction program aims to identify the strongest markets, blocks, and properties most
likely to be of interest to buyers. Vacancy reduction in these areas strengthens the markets and
spreads to adjacent blocks and neighborhoods. DLBA inventory increases in value in those
adjacent blocks and neighborhoods, thereby making rehab more economically feasible.

Preparing an Auction property for sale can be quite expensive, costing on average about $2,500
per property and sometimes much more. In addition to cleaning out the property, DLBA inSpectors
inspect and provide an estimated cost of repairs for bringing the property up to minimum building
codes using standard grade materials. The DLBA hosts open houses for public viewing to increase
sales exposure. Given these expenses, properties most likely recoup the preparation cost are
identified for the Auction pipeline, where opening bids start at $1,000.

Beginning C11 2019, Auction properties increased from three to four properties per day resulting
in the sale of approximately 330 additional Auction properties per year. Increased Auction sales
help stabilize Detroit neighborhoods through home renovations and occupancy, reducing vacancy
and decreasing overall DLBA inventory.

The DLBA has listed 2,612 unique properties for sale through the Auction platform since its
inaugural sales date of May 5, 2014. Currently the largest concentration of Auction inventory is in
Brightmoor, followed by the Grixdale Farms neighborhood. These are weaker market areas,
though there are pockets of strength in each of these neighborhoods. Through site visits and
market analysis, the Inventory identifies the strongest parts of neighborhoods to prepare houses
for sale in the near future.

10 Page

 

Properties in Auction Highestit by Neighborhood

Russell Woods

O?Hair ark

Claytown

Franklin Park

Hofcomb Community
I-aiornangs'de

Oakman Bivd ommun t_y
Warenda Ie

-
-
-
-








 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

55 103 15: 209 250 393
Neighborhoods Number of Properties
Russell Woods 12
O'Hair Park 14
Claytovvn 15
Franklin Park 24
Holcomb Community 26
Morningside 41
Oakman Community 48
Warrendale 68
Grixdale Farms 77
Brightmoor 257
TOTAL 582

 

 

 

 

Please note this graph shows current Auction inventory, not previously sold Auction
properties.


The Own-It?Now (OIN) program developed as a leaner, more Cost-effective program designed to

move vacant DLBA houses to sale without incurring the more substantial Auction program costs.
Unlike Auction, OIN houses are not cleared of debris and there are no open houses (interested
buyers can schedule private viewings). OIN houses are expedited to the sale pipeline quickly and
with much less expense. Since the program's launch in February 2016, 3,355 properties have

been made available for sale.

11 Page

 

lean process promotes strategic entry into softer markets on the margins of areas where the
Auction program is operating, and the private market is active. Allowing a foothold in emerging
markets and testing real estate markets in areas where sales success is less assured. Setting the
stage for future Auction sales and neighborhood stabilization, while providing residents with the
opportunity to buy and rehab homes outside private market presence.

Purchase requests from the public play a central role in determining which houses are listed for
OIN sales. Over 70% of OIN listings resulted from requests. Historically, an average of 22 OIN
properties listed for per week. The DLBA is ramping up OIN inventory preparations, with plans to
double the number of weekly listings by 0.3 2019. This will enable increased interested purchaser
response, while taking initial steps towards market stabilization across the city.

The Inventory team is currently ramping up the number of houses under preparation for Own?it-
Now sale, with plans to double the number of weekly listings by early 2019. Historically, the
Inventory team has listed an average 22 Own-lt?Now properties per week. The inventory team
aims to increase this number to approximately 50 by early 2019.

VACANT LAND
Using a data-driven approach, the DLBA determines eligibility and status for the 66,342 vacant lots

in its inventory. The bulk of these lots are made available through the Side Lot Program and the
DLBA regularly reviews inquiries to determine if they can be listed through the Side Lot program.
Other parcels are identified for possible infill development opportunities, city?led projects, or are
reviewed for possible sale via property project applications such as community parks. Many lots
have tax or title issues preventing immediate sale

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vacant Lots - Current Status Number of Properties Percentage

Other Statuses 242 0.36%

Title Problem Identified 966 1.46%

Tax Problem Identified 1,192 1.80%

Projects 2,631 4.04%

Side Lots 24,529 36.97%

Vacant Land 36.694 55.37%

TOTAL 66,304 100.00%
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE

In coordination with the City of Detroit, General Services Department (GSD), the DLBA addresses
inventory maintenance concerns. GSD's Board Up Brigade responds to vacant house board ups
across the city, including DLBA owned structures as well as regular premises lawn maintenance.
Concerns such as overgrown yards, illegal dumping, and hazardous trees at DLBA properties is
compiled via These requests originate with city agencies (City Council, Department of
Neighborhoods}, as well as resident complaints made directly to the DLBA. While 650 works

12 Page

 

through the backlog of maintenance concerns, the DLBA reviews and submits new requests daily.
Progress and benchmarks are communicated and tracked via Salesforce facilitating efficient
constituent communication regarding status updates and maintenance concerns.

PROJECT MANAGEMENT

The DLBA has worked closely with the Department of Neighborhood?s Bridging Neighborhoods
Program (BNP) since October 2017 to "facilitate the transition of families from the Delray area in
Southwest to other Detroit neighborhoods." The inventory Department helped identify
nearly 800 properties across 29 neighborhoods and Detroit's districts that fit the program
specifications. As of January 2019, 16 properties were identified as "Program Properties", or
properties actively shown to Delray residents. Additionally, 16 DLBA properties are under contract
with residents participating in the Bridging Neighborhoods Program.

Properties Reviewed by BNP

Priority Property 96
Hold Property 61
Program 16
Rejected Property 573
Under Contract 16
TOTAL 762

DLBA Properties Reviewed by BNP by District

 

District 5

District 4 

DiStiCtS
a

District 2

 

District 7 

ran-?
0 so 100 150 200 250 300
Rq'ected I Under Contract Program I Hold Priorty
Priority Hold_ Program __ynder Contract Rejected

13 Page

 

District 1 4 4 16

District 2 10
District 3 9 4 31
District 4 10 3 4 64
District 5

District 6 78 19 3 9 255
District addition to the Department of Neighborhood, DLBA's Inventory Department works closely with
the City's Planning and Development Department (PDD) on Neighborhood Framework Plans
related to Strategic Neighborhood Fund expansion. DLBA provided raw data and analysis regarding
inventory and local organization contacts providing insight and involvement in Public Meetings
and Planning Charrettes led by PDD.

14 Page

 

 

  
    
  
     

 

um; a I
If - hill! {1
In? 

I
II 


  

Gun"; 
. wt, lull-Ion 

\x/x?q 
 

Inlan?ll- 
0m?! 

Wou- 
. Ilugln Pm

Winn-dale 
cur-Ion

?ms?

 

 

 

WarendalelCodv-Rouie ?m
Samar/Verna- 
RusseIIWoods/Nardin Park 

Jefferson Chalmers bg?E
Villas 

GrandR'rchorthwa 
Ea: Warm/Cadiewt 
Campau/Bamlaown m:
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500

I Structure 9 Land
Strategic Fund (SNF) Ownership Informatlo_n Land Structure 

Campau/Banglatown 1,212 313

15 Page

 

East Warren/Cadieux 1,157 368

Grand River Northwest 2,197 819
Gratiot/ 7-Mile 2,871 1,728
Islandview/Greater Villages 927 468
de?erson Chalmers 1.553 111
:Livernois - McNichols 1,694 510
Russell Woods/Nardin Park 1,336 763
Southwest/Vernor 807 104
Warrendale/Cody-Rouge 1,821 561
TOTAL 15,575 5,745

Not all neighborhoods are displayed in the graph above. Our data suggest that there are more
than 200 neighborhoods throughout the City of Detroit.

CLIENT SERVICES
The Clients Services team is ta king great strides to reduce the wait time for customers contacting

the DLBA via phone and in-person resulting in improved customers' experiences with the Detroit
Land Bank Authority. Continued investment in training and technology improves quality assurance
monitoring and improves the accuracy of the information dissemination. Cross departmental
training further assists client concerns and increases client relations. To promote inclusion and
better service residents and clients, the DLBA provides on-site representatives ?uent in multiple
languages in addition to translation services.

mama
ocr MTDV vrovl Nov may ntva mac
7,491 5! 6,336 45% mn- use
6,960 16% as 5,731 4176 am 4.04:
as: .see. as: 322 amt. 55% 254 an: 1195

on MTDV new NOV

   
  

  
 

 

  
 
 
      
     

Call Center Summary QTQV
Total Calls Received:
Total Calls Answered:

Total Calls Abandoned:

Percentages of Total Calls Received
Answered:

Abandoned:

Call'l1ma Summary MTDV mov DEC mov lam nus

Average Speed to Answer 0:01:08 6556 416 0:01:07 41? 41! 0:01:07 UK 25% 0:01:07 420%

Average TlmetoAbandon: 0:02 30 one. 0:02:15 4% 4015. 0103:? am 41% 0.02:4? ?35

 

 

       
   
  

 

       

MTDV movl DEC

   

 
    
 
   

 

     

MTDV mov] DEC QTR
.793: 0:11:15 am am 02253 61%

Walt?me Summary ocr MTDV YTDV 1 NOV
Longest Wail?hme: 0:11 32 45* ?513? 0:22:58

Services OCT NOV DEC on: Tale! mp
Walk-In Count: 1pm as: :51 ?5,125 5.317

16 Page

 

QZFY 2018 Call Center Summary

39?" 1,491

6.960
7,000

6,336
5,000 5.731
5,000
4,352
4,042
4,000
3,000
2,000
1.000
353 Total Calls Received: a Total Calls Answered: I Total Calls Abandoned:
TITLE SERVICES

 

Clear, insurable title is critical for anyone buying property?notjust from the DLBA, but in general.
Clear title provides confidence to the property owner in their ownership and any investment they
make. it is an absolute prerequisite for any lending institution considering a mortgage. Indeed, so
important is clear title that it Is one of the reasons the land banks were created by the state
legislature. In 02 2019 the Title Team received 919 new title orders. New title orders
include examination of the title commitment for ownership (vesting) and underwriter?s
requirements to eliminate outstanding interests, including tax and utility status. that may prevent
future marketable title. Often, the steps required to resolve title encumbrances necessitate
coordinated efforts with Quiet Title legal department.

In total, 1,649 properties were assessed in 0.2 2019, of which 515 [initial Review] were confirmed
to have marketable title with no delinquent taxes and graded as ready for sale; 72? [Legal Review}
were transferred to Quiet Title; and the remaining 307 [Update Reviews) reviewed to con?rm
continued clear title with no new interested parties, new recordedfunrecorded liens, or tax bills
were assessed against the property, which would prevent it from moving forward in the sale
process.

17 Page

Dlsposltlon Program

Granted


Auction
DIN

Tohl

00m Mm
al Review Not Clear Processing will: Quiet ml:
717

Initial Review Clear Title Transitionedfar Sale

date Reviews

Tut-I 

 

18 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

DISPOSITION DEPARTMENT

REGINALD SCOTT, DIRECTOR OF DISPOSITION

 

AUCTION

C11 2019, Auction properties increased from three to four properties per day resulting in the sale
of approximately 330 additional Auction properties per year; sales through this platform remains

strong

+2014
*2015
2016

2017
+2018

Year

2014
2015
2016
2017
2018

AUCTION 
Comparison of (12 Sales Trends

 

 

ocr NOV DEC
Total Sold (C12)

79

90

98

131

159

*Does not include failed buyers (a failed buyer is an individual or entity who paid the initial
deposit but did not complete the final purchase of the property)

19 Page

OWN-IT-NOW
Own-lt-Now (OIN) responds to public requests for properties, interested parties contact the DLBA
with an address, and with certain exceptions, the property Is listed for sale online with offers
accepted 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

*2016
+2017
+2013

Year

2016
2017
2018

 



Comparison of 0.2 Sales Trends

 




OCT NOV DEC
Total Sold (02)

185
196
201

*Does not include failed buyers (a failed buyer is an individual or entity who paid the initial
deposit but did not complete the final purchase of the property)

20 Page

 

AUCTION AND SALES
By Council District for Auction 145 126 81 222

CLOSING
Current Closing Pipeline for Auction and Own-lt?Now

Closing Pipeline 0.2 2018

492

   

 

180
Pending Failed Buyer Tltle Services Not Beach; to Ready to Closing Closed
Hold Schedule Schedule Scheduled

Closing Closing

21 Page

 

SIDE LOTS
In 2018, Dispositions launched a District Side Lot Sale pilot. Unlike Side Lot Fairs, these

events are smaller in scale and providing more direct and frequent sale services in the community.
The November District 4 Side Lot Sale served over UFO neighbors and sold 89 lots. A total of 64?

side lots were sold in 0.2 2019.

Side Lot Sales per District
REHABBED READY
Rehabbed Ready is a philanthropic initiative aimed to improve residential market values and
bolster home ownership in the City of Detroit. Through collaboration with Quicken Loans,
dilapidated DLBA inventory undergo full rehabilitation, bringing houses to at or above market
conditions. Parallel efforts are in place in Rehabbed St Ready selected neighborhoods to reduce

blight and encourage occupancy via the existing demolition, nuisance abatement programs
and other Disposition programs.

0.2 2019 Rehabbed 8: Ready?s Progress

0 Closings. Closed 3 properties, totaling 55 to date in the Crary/St Marys, College Park,
Evergreen-Outer Drive, Bagley, East English Village, Martin Park, Greenfield-Grandriver,
and Morningside neighborhoods.

0 Open Houses remain a staple of the program. To ensure prospective home owners
have adequate opportunities to view the properties, DLBA conducts public open houses
and private showings.

Rehabbed Ready public open houses occur on Wednesdays and Sundays, for the
listing duration.

0 Rehabbed 8: Ready private showings are scheduled through the DLBA website for
any day except for Saturday.

0 Neighborhood Engagement: 885 individuals joining the DLBA e-mail marketing list
for new listings, price reductions, and offer deadlines.

22 Page

 

Rehabbed 8: Ready private showings can be scheduled through our website for any

day except for Saturday.

0 Neighborhood Engagement: We ended this quarter with 634 individuals joining our
e-mail marketing list to stay updated on new listings, price reductions, and offer
deadlines.

In What?s next?
0 Focus on decreasing the per-home loss on sales and increasing the number of

rehab contractors and tradesmen.
Pipeline: 36 properties are currently in the pre-construction phase, 12
properties under construction, 6 properties evaluated by the General Contractors,

and 5 properties prepared for sale.

By focusing efforts in select neighborhoods and spacing out sales of turn-key ready homes, the
DLBA continues to raise market comparables ("comps") and stabilize appraisals, resulting in
greater access to mortgages throughout the City.

Property Address: 16141 Muirland

Before After

   

23 Page

 

Property Address: 14560 Asbury Park

 

Before

 

PROJECTS TEAM
The Community Partnership Team and the Economic Development Team merged to become the

"Projects Team.?

Develop Detroit?s North End Project

Purchased nine (9) parcels of land from the Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) to begin
renovation work in the North End neighborhood
Began the construction of eleven (11) new homes

I
I Rehabilitation of seven (7) townhouses
I Work is expected to be completed in Q3 2019
a in November, City Council approved the Option Agreement to sell Develop Detroit an
additional eight (3) DLBA owned properties within the North End neighborhood. The
project area is generally bounded by Melbourne, John R., Chandler and Brush.
Fitzgerald

Successfully completed Phase I with 3 new Detroit families moving into the neighborhood.
Secured, fully rehabbed, and sold 3 homes to low-to-moderate income homebuyers,
each a first-time homebuyer. One new resident is quoted as saying, "I've always wanted to
be a so excited that it's finally happening!

These transactions are helping to stabilize the property value in the neighborhood.
FitzForward team closed on an additional 13 affordable housing units from the DLBA in

December.

24 Page

 

Community Partnership program continues to encourage faith- and community- based
organizations to transform the neighborhoods they serve through projects such as home
rehabilitation, deconstruction, new construction, lot beautification, community gardens, and

pocket parks.

The program guides nonpro?ts, faith-based organizations and community development
organizations through the process of acquiring property through the DLBA. This program allows
organizations to present proposed projects and development plans. The plans assist the
Community Partnership Team in identifying properties and areas that will assist the organization
in its goal.

BUY BACK
The Buy Back Program was created to provide a path forward for occupants of DLBA-owned

houses. It allows an eligible occupant of a DLBA?owned property the opportunity to gain ownership
of the house in which he or she lives. After qualifying for the Buy Back Program and the house is
purchased, the occupant of?cially enters the program and must display consistent savings until
their next tax bill arrives.

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

October 29 $29,000
November 28 $28,000
December 11 $11,000
0.2 2019 Total 68 $68,000

 

 

   

 

I

Buy Back Complete 339

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Monitor Compliance for Aug 2018 exit 9
Entered Partial Payment (Exitian 2019] 9
Monitor Compliance foriuiy 2019 exit 211
Buy Back Pipeline 438
Eligibility Under Review 99
Inspection in Progress 6
Need to take HPE Course 39
Ready to Close 59
Potential Reconveyance 9
Reconveyance in Progress 0
Sales Hold 6
ineligible for Buy Back [Reason Documented) 1490
Reconveyance Complete 4

 

25 Page

 

OCCUPIED NON-PROFIT

The Occupied Non-Profit Program was created to engage non-profit organizations and provide the
opportunity to increase neighborhood stability. The non-profit partners assist occupants who do
not qualify for the Buy Back Program to transition to homeownership. Once title is transferred,
the non?profit partner provides the occupant services that include renovation, supportive services,
lease and purchase options.

In December 2018, four non-profit organization were onboarded as Occupied Non-Profit partners.
The program now has a total of seven non-profit partners. Engaging more partners, the DLBA was
able to operate in expanded geographic areas.

 

 

 

October?18 11
Novem her-18 2
December-18 0
Total 13

 

 

 

 

26 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT


ROD LIGGONS, DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY AFFAIRS

 

The Detroit Land Bank Authority's (DLBA) Community Affairs Department continues to increase
public engagement, spreading brand awareness, attracting potential buyers, and educating people
about DLBA programs and resources. Using a strategic approach that combines traditional and
social media, face-to-face community interaction, and paid advertising the Community Affairs
team is reaching more Detroiters than ever before; allowing the DLBA to promote its programs
which make homeownership accessible and transform neighborhood landscapes.

MEDIA RELATIONS

Focused remains on building the DLBA's brand through positive storytelling. With a proactive
approach to media engagement, the DLBA secured coverage of events, listings, and activities with
television and print outlets Community Affair?s Public Information Officer coordinated
interviews and responses to more than two dozen inquiries from media outlets in 02 2019, and in
many cases, mitigated negative coverage by answering questions and solving problems before
publication.

Features 8i. Mentions

October. November December
DLBA Halloween Houses 370 E. Grand project Historic James Smith Log Cabin
I Outlet: WXYZ, Fox 2, creates communityjobs for sale by DLBA
WDIV, WWJ, Detroit I Outlet: Fox 2 I Outlet: Curbed Detroit,
Free Press, Detroit News Fox 2 News, City Media
Services
Saskia Thompson, Executive Detroit Tops 1,000 Mortgages
Director on Spotlight on the I Outlet: Model 
News Interviews Robbie Linn
I Outlet: WXYZ DLBA Parent Academy 
Adult Ed Hubs

I Outlet: Fox 2

*Drganic mentions: Bridging
Neighborhoods Program
I Crain's, Fox 2, Detroit
News
Palmer Woods Renovation
I Free Press

*Rehabbed 8: Ready future

coverage of new listings secured
Outlet: Curbed Detroit

26 Page

 

In addition to positive coverage generated by the PIO, the DLBA actively provided interviews and

responses for several investigative stories
Huffington Post, Crain?s Detroit Business, 

News, the Detroit Free Press, Deadline Detroit and the Metro Times.

Media Outreach 8: Networking

The Community Affairs team continues to build relations
newsroom meetings. During the quart
Director, Rod Liggons and the PIO participated in the Mic

covered by national and local outlets including the
he Associated Press, Fox 2 News, WXYZ, the Detroit

hips with local media outlets through
er, the team has met with WXYZ and Outlier Media.
higan Association of Land Bank's annual

conference in Frankenmuth, learning about media strategy, best practices, and programming, as
well as meeting land bank leaders from communities across the state.

SOCIAL MEDIA

Community Affairs? Social Medi
specific goals: increasing brand awareness
increased engagement.

Goal
Brand Awareness

Website Traffic

Engagement

Performance Measure.

Impressions, Reach

Website clicks/Profile
Visits

Likes, Shares,
Comments, Retweets,
Mentions

?tr'a'te'gy
Tag other popular
social accounts,
utilize hashtags to
increase reach,
utilize user-
generated content

Provide links to
helpful
information; use
content that drives
the user back to
the website

Interact with the
users, utilize the
store feature as an
open forum, tag

a Coordinator focused 0.2 2019 social media activity on three
/reach, increasing traffic to buildingdetroit.org, and

Content
Before 8: After,
Quotes, FAQs, Event
Photos

Property and Event
Announcements

Event Photos,
Calendars, Event
Announcements,
Before After, Use of
Story Question
Features

27 Page

 

The DLBA updated social media content library includes:

Sapient action]

User Generated Repost user generated content that Is specific
to DLBA or Includes DLBA hashtags

Animated Posts Use Adobe Spark to generate more creative,

eye-catching posts.

Will begin to generate and roll out
standardized video footage.

Comments, Likes, Reposts, Tags Compiled a database of social media
usernames and commonly used hashtags to
promote engagement.

Commented on posts that were similar in
branding and messaging, as well as being
responsive to comments on DLBA generated
posts. Used user-feedback to generate
content. Ensuring that content ls general vet
individualized according to use.

Photo Carousels Showcase interior photos of auction
properties while decreasing repetitive posts

Newly implement content and features include calendars publicizing Community Affairs
events, #FunFactFriday to address frequentiy asked questions, #RealPeopleRealSuccess
showcasing homeowners whoachieved compliance, Facebook Messenger as another means of
responding to questions from the public, and Facebook Shop to promote houses currently for sale
on our website.
Follow the DLBA:
Facebook:@BuildingDetroit
I 
instagram:@buildingdet
I 
Twitter:@BuildingDetroit
- 
Metrics
Data reveals the optimization strategies implemented on each social channel (Facebook, Twitter,
and lnstagram) increasing brand awareness and engagement. While we consistently track web
traffic through Hootsuite and each social channel's internal analytics, better data collection is

28 Page

 

needed to measure effectiveness, to maximize the value of each post. -The charts below illustrate
the growth in 0.2 2019 compared to 0.1 2019.

Facebook Followers 8. Twitter Followers lnstagram Followers

Likes
272a

1200
you
11,800 25? 1000
11,600
11,400 300
11,2 
on 2520 5?10
10.800 1.530
Followers Total Likes 25m 200
E'g

IJUIV oAug Sept 2540
Oct I Nov II Dec

Notably, based on the targeted goals and engagement strategy, the lnstagram following doubled
to more than 1,000 accounts during the month. of October. Twitter and Facebook saw a steady
increase in followers, in line with recent trends with growth between two and five percent
All social channels continued to grow consistently through November and December.
Additionally, lnstagram saw a significant shift in age demographics over Q2 2019, with users ages
18-34, increasing by 40%. This shift in demographics is encouraging because this is the target?
market for first-time homebuyers. Therefore, better use of demographic data to drive content
leading to'webslte conversions is necessary to reach the target homebuying audience.

     

lnstagram Users By Age lnstagram Users By Age
(August 2018) (November 2018)
18-24, 1% 25-34, 5% 13.24
 .I 
#1
[ff 4? 
.  25-34I
I . 41% 5
 35-44,
45%
-1s-24 ~25-34 -35-44 -45-54 .55-54 -55+ 118-24 .25-34 -35-44 -45-54 .55-54 -ss+

29 Page

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

01FY19 02FY19 FY19 YTD Summary
Net 96
July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Change Avg. Growth
Followers 11,352 11,419 11,466 11,532 11,591 11,679
New Followers 70 66 47 66 59 88 396 66.00 3.5%
Total Likes 11,187 11,252 11,296 11,357 11,420 11,466
New Likes
(Net428 71.33 3.9%
New Likes 74 85 94 90
Avg. Weekly
Page 389 263 276 281 264 480
Engagement 428 325.50
Avg. Weekly
46 Total Reach 2,823 2344 2,392 1,659 2,954 3,334 258433
?8 Number of
Posts 197
H.
0.1 2019 02 2019 2019 YTD Summary
YTD 96
July Au_g__ Sept Oct Nov Dec Total Avg Growth
Followers 2610 2642 2,672 2,699 2,711 2,718 --
New Followers 51 26 39 16 15 11 158 26.3 5.7%
Link Clicks 149 359 699 32 15 19 1273 212.2
Profile Visits 898 1371 521 738 452 656 4636 772.7
Mentions 19 39 10 14 11 93 18.6
Impressions 46,900 193,000 51,500 23,000 19,300 20,000 353700 58950.0
Tweets 203 1365 288 52 28 26 1856 387.2
Retweets 39 117 63 16 8 9 252 42.0
'?NeetUkes Rep?'10
ngzgement 0.9 0.7 0.50% 0.80% 0.40% 0.20% 032
C11 2019 02 2019 2019 YTD Summary
Net 96
July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Change Avg Growth
Followers 335 400 504 1003 1113 1174
New Followers 160 65 104 499 110 61 +999 167 570.9%
Avg Weekly
i Website Clicks 30 Page

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Avg Weekly
Impressions 26373 6?25?) 8293 7837 5433 2557 9564
Avg. Weekly
Reach 283 355 643 685 455 486
Weekly Profile
Visits 160 132 105 132

 

 

 

*Using a baseline of 175 for starting number of followers forJuly 1

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT

Community Affairs? Manager and Social Media Coordinator are in the neighborhoods every week.
Their presence across the city allows the DLBA to answer questions from the public and promote
sales programs face?to?face, providing citizens with personal interaction and a direct line of
communication. New initiatives for C12 2019 include connecting with religious organizations and
the Detroit Public Schools Community District Our faith-based outreach educated
participants at eleven local houses of worship. The DLBA hosted a homebuyer workshop for 40
people with International Gospel Center, there are now offers pending on four of the 15 DLBA
houses presented at the event in December. With the team educated school staff about
the 50% employee discount and launched a Parent Academy to deliver resources directly to
prospective buyers at the district's new adult education hubs. The team continues to speak at
block club meetings citywide as well as host Of?ce Hours in each Council district and Information
tables at Council and Mayoral meetings. Community Affairs also responded to more than
a thousand emails during the quarter, answering 725 in the month of December alone.

DLBA Community Engagement Q2 2019

0 -- -3

Of?ce Hours School Outreach Faith-Based Block Cluh/
Outreach Council Community
meetings

l0ctober I November if December :Total ICitizen contact

31 Page

 

 

 

 

more;

 

 



 

 

r. 1-3.4.

 

 

Tb?lf' Ti

   

11

 



dentist 92 135

 

 

 

124

 

 

 

 

 

DLBA Community Relations
02 2019 Quarter inquiries?
Total 140

Lease Property

Maintenance

 

81

22

I 1

Response

 

Sales Demo

I Total

*lnquiries created on property records in SalesForce

GRAPHICS

Community Affairs? Senior Graphics Designer creates dozens of custom graphics packages each

quarter,

initiatives including postcards notifying 
sales, postcards empowering neighbo

handling all design requests for the DLBA. This work supports a variety of ongoing
he community of upcoming Open Houses and Side Lot
rs to report drug houses to the Detroit Police Department,

Compliance materials to keep buyers informed, as well as refreshed graphics for the upcoming
relaunch of buildingdetroitorg. The Senior Graphics Designer also creates all the kicker-cards,
flyers, door-hangers, banners and other DLBA materials.

32 Page

 

NEXT STEPS

Video Production

Community Affairs? Deputy Director continues creating video content targeting potential
purchasers. The videos offer tips, resources, and guidance to prospective buyers and feature
successful DLBA homeowners and their renovations. Once completed, these videos will be
featured on the newly created DLBA YouTube channel and shown in our public lobby, providing a
new tool to engage existing and future clients.

Marketing Outreach

The DLBA enjoyed great success with a billboard and public transit ad campaign, reaching people
within the city limits, as well as surrounding cities. Community Affairs plans to expand on this ad

strategy going forward.

Community Affairs attends the weekly Department of Neighborhoods meeting at the Mayor?s
Of?ce. Based on feedback from those meetings, the team is working closely with the District
managers on best practices to promote the DLBA and engage with constituents across the city

Community Affairs utilizes social media as a platform to promote community eVents hosted or
attended by the DBLA. Through these outlets interested groups may submit presentation request
forms. To further expand DLBA Community Affairs engagement opportunities, the team is building
a YouTube page featuring videos for our customers. These videos will include frequently asked
questions, compliance, sales programs, and resources; as well as spotlight buyer successes.

33 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

DEMOLITION DEPARTMENT


TAMMY DANIELS. DIRECTOR OF DEMOLITION

 

DLBA DEMOLITION PROGRAM

The Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA), in partnership with the Mayor?s Office, City Council, and
the Detroit Building Authority (DBA), continues to impact all Council Districts through its various
demolition programs. In 2015, the demolition program made great strides towards blight
reduction in highly populated/high-density areas, radial thoroughfares and commercial corridors
throughout the City of Detroit. The DLBA gears its targeted demolitions within the designated
Hardest Hit Fund (HHF) geographic boundaries toward reducing blight and spurring economic
activity in these neighborhoods. The DLBA's strategic demolition efforts are complemented by
strategic reinvestment and rehabilitation, leading to significant increases in property values across
the City.

HARDEST HIT FUNDS

Beginning in June 2018, Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSH DA) started issuing
credits to the DLBA through its various HHF rounds. These credits represent a refund of settlement
proceeds as well as the return of the Fire Insurance Escrow dollars paid to MSHDA. The
total refund is currently $6,602,690.50 and will be used to demolish additional residential
structures. In June 2018 refund credits issued to the DLBA were as follows: 
HHF3- $638.25; effectiver reopening HHF1 and HHF2 rounds. As ofthe date
of this report, four (4) rounds of HHF funding are currently open, as the DLBA successfully closed
out HHF3 on December 27, 2018.

The initial funding from the Hardest Hit Fund (HHF1) provided $57,342,668.95 in demolition funds
and was closed in the Third Quarter 2015, with a mere $700.00 remaining balance, transferred to
the next round. To date, the DLBA had utilized these funds to demolish 3,686 residential
structures. As noted above, HHF1 received an additional $5,409,638.69 in new funding allowing
the demolition of approximately 315 additional residential structures. The DLBA identified
properties within the geographic boundaries of HHF1 to expend these funds. Currently, those
designated properties are contracted for demolition or undergoing environmental due diligence
surveys. As of December 31, 2013, the DLBA received $57,410,43030 in disbursements by
$5,341,377.34 remains. The DLBA has until December 31, 2019, to either expend all the
remaining allocated dollars or request a transfer of any unspent dollars to other rounds.

The second round of Hardest Hit Funds (HHF2) provided $50,000,? 19.05 in demolition funds. Early
in the Fourth Quarter 2017, the demolition team reduced the grant funds remaining under
this round to $5,410.94, effectiver closing out HHF2. As of the date of this report, the DLBA has
demolished and received reimbursement for the demolition of 2,941 residential structures. As
noted above, HHF2 received an additional $1,192,413.56 in funding for the demolition of
approximately 70 additional residential structures. As of December 31, 2018, the DLBA received

34 Page

 

$50, 176,307.09 in disbursements by $1,016,825.52 remaining. The DLBA identified
properties within the geographic boundaries of HHF2 to expend these funds; these properties are
currently contracted for demolition or undergoing environmental due diligence surveys. The DLBA
has until December 31, 2019, to either expend all the allocated dollars or request any unspent
dollars are transferred to other rounds.

The third round of Hardest Hit Funds (HHF3) provided $21,255,000.00 in demolition funds. As of
December 31, 2018, the DLBA has been reimbursed $21,249,169.99; leaving $6,468.26 and
effectively closing out this round of funding. As ofthe date of this report, the DLBA has demolished
and received reimbursement for the demolition of 1,465 residential structures across the seven

Council Districts.

The fourth round of Hardest Hit Funds (HHF4) provided $41,901,646.00 in demolition funds. As of
December 31, 2018, the DLBA has been reimbursed $35,636,919 from leaving
$6,264,726.86 to be drawn down by the DLBA, which is inclusive of the $2,108,219.03, for which
the DLBA is currently seeking reimbursement. To date, 2,035 structures have been demolished
and reimbursed by MSHDA. This fourth round of funding allows for the demolition of
approximately 2,400 residential structures, and HH4 is expected to be closed out on or before

June 30, 2019.

The fifth round of Hardest Hit Funds (HHF5) provides for $88,153,425.00 in demolition funds. As
of December 31, 2018, the DLBA has been reimbursed $8,860,797.93; leaving $79,292,627.07 in
grant funds to be drawn down by the DLBA, which is inclusive of the $7,581,284.75, for which the
DLBA is currently seeking reimbursement. The DLBA expects to demolish approximately 5,200
residential structures under this final round of funding by Friday

PROCUREMENT TRANSITION

In April 2018, to stabilize demolition costs and provide a greater level of predictability with the
release of HHF program Request for Proposals the DLBA began issuing between 400-450
properties per month for demolition RFP. Given the increased volume and timing of RFP releases,
the DLBA elected to issue an RFP for Pracurement Administrative Services to transition the HHF
procurement process to a third-party company skilled at providing such services on the scale and
scope envisioned bythe DLBA. The DLBA noted the Detroit Building Authority (DBA), its demolition
project manager, was spending an increasing amount oftime, resources, and staff on procurement
related issues, limiting D-BA's ability to focus on field operations. Also driving the decision
to transition the procurement process to a third party was the recognition that an anticipated
spike in demo RFP releases and increased supervision mandated by March 6, 2018, Department
of Health protocols could negatively impact the DBA's ability to manage field operations
effectively. EffectiVE July 1, 2018, with a goal of providing increased stability, transparency, and to
encourage the participation of a diverse group of contractors; the DLBA transitioned its HHF
procurement services from the DBA to Price, Waterhouse, Coopers, Public Sector, LLP 

35 Page

 

PWC was selected based on their response to the they bring a wealth of knowledge,
experience, and a stellar reputation to the DLBA and the Hardest Hit Fund Demolition Program. A
formal agreement was executed on June 30, 2018, and the transition process began in earnest.
Working in close conjunction with the DEA, is currently contracted to provide project
management, process mapping {which includes streamlining the current process), review,
tabulation and recommendations of approximately 10 RFP groups per month. PWC will also be
responsible for administering-the annual RFQ process.

Since completion of the transition in late July 2013, the DLBA has seen a sharp increase in
efficiency; with the time to review, tabulate, and award RFP's down from six-to-eight weeks tojust
two weeks. The DLBA successfully eliminated the RFP backlog during this quarter; and will
complete the HHF procurement process on or before March 30, 2019. Other process
improvements implemented under the partnership with PWC include, but are not limited to,
virtual bid openings, recorded bid openings, streamlined documentation, increased programmatic
transparency.

POLICY 

In February 2018, the DLBA transitioned to an RFO. process, to mitigate the arduous submission
process. The new RFD. process allows demolition contractors to become presqualifled to
participate in the HHF program by submitting a complete qualification package once a year,
instead of submitting qualification documents with every RFP as previously required. Since the
implementation of the RFQ process, the program maintains a current list of thirteen (13) pre-
qualified demolition contractors; of which three are MBEIWBE. On October 29, 2018, the DLBA
released the 2019 calendar year RFQ and is currently reviewing submissions.

The DLBA continues to work diligently with the demolition contractors to ensure their invoices and
supporting documents are correct, complete, and processed in a timely manner. As a resuit ofthe
restructuring of the demolition department along with the numerous process improvements that
were implemented in late 2017, the demolition department was able to significantly increase it
productivity. As reflected in the chart below, payments to demolition contractors increased by
58% with the number of properties processed increasing by 115%.

36]Page

 

Please see the Hardest Hit Fund Program tab of for a complete list of
properties demolished and released to contractors

 

 

 

 

 

 

Doll-alt Land Blair Authority
Summu'y of Demolition Payments 2011-2015
Catendar Your 2011 Cal-mar Your 2015
Total 5 Total 5

Cents ctor Prop 1w Valu- Prop Vino

ABC Demolition 35 5 331,300.00 1.15% 0.0%
Able Demolition 2 5 3,150,540.35 10.2% 445 5 4,203,505.55 12.0%
Adamo Group, Inc. 50 5 5.1% 410 5 5,514,083.30 11.0%
Berkshire Development, Inc. 13 5 111,410.00 0.5% 0.0%
Hue Star 13 5 400,000) 1.0% 150 5 1,315,555.30 40%
Dan-Hm Contractors 15 5 1.2% 55 5 1,557,522.50 5.1%
Direct Construction Services 11 5 134,905.02 0.7% 20 5 102,505.14 0.0%
MG Consultants 291 5 3.33.1541? 11.2% 355 5 2,351,305.55 5.0%
Ease Wrecking Co. 52 5 101,010.00 3.0% 13 5 131,550.00 0.5%
Farrow Group 12 5 131,051.00 0.0% 0.0%
Gayenge Co 0.0% 42 5 335,151.11 1.0%
Homrich 234 5 2,542,055.25 14.2% 510 5 3,552,114.50 121%
Leadhaad Construction 21 5 255,054?! 1.2% 0.0%
Group 254 5 3,557,915.30 17.3% 335 5 4,735,024.17 141.5%
Within 5- Excavating 215 5 3,313,050 15.0% 533 5 7,211,584.55 22.0%
Snail-y ems a 14,050.00 0.2%
Grand To?! 1,524 5 20.693.087.35 3,255 5 32.175.055.25

DEMOLITION ADVANCE FUND

On March 31, 2015, through the approval of City Council, the $20m Demolition Advance Fund
was created. The sole purpose of the DAF was to ensure the DLBA had sufficient cash flow
to make payments to contractors providing services under the HHF program, while the DLBA
awaits reimbursement payments from MSHDA. The DLBA in partnership with the Office of the CFO
has been working to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the City to ensure
conformity with the City Council?s Resolution that created the DAF. The amended agreement will
be presented to City Council upon completion

MSHDA GRANT

In August 2017, in partnership with the Detroit Building Authority (DBA), the DLBA was awarded a
$458,000.00 non-HHF grant from MSHDA for the demolition of blighted residential structures
within the City of Detroit. As a pre-condition of the award, the City of Detroit was required to
match the MSHDA grant funds; therefore $916,000.00 will be used to demolish 60 additional
blighted properties. The DBA serves as the administrator and project manager forthis project. The
60 properties selected, in large part, fall outside of the traditional HHF boundaries. The
environmental due diligence work was completed on the subject properties on or about
September 25, 2017. The City of Detroit issued the 4.5.2018 Abatement and Demolition 
DMC, the lowest bidder, was awarded the contracts. The City of Detroit is currently working with

37 Page

 

DMC to complete the abatement and demolition of the 60 structures by the current deadline of
February 28, 2019.

As a result ofthe efforts, working in conjunction with MSH DA and its City partners, we have
demolished more than 10,600 blighted structures with the HF funding. The DLBA estimates that
we will demolish an additional 4,000 structures with the remaining HHF funding. The removal of
these blighted structures from the City's landscape has assisted in stabilizing neighborhoods and
motivating the real estate market, both of which are crucial to the City's resurgence.

38 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

LEGAL DEPARTMENT

MIKE BRADY. GENERAL COUNSEL

 

The Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) Legal Department provides legal counsel and assistance
to the Board of Directors, the Executive Director, and the organization?s all programs 
disposition, acquisition, and demolition). Additionally, the Legal Department staffs various DLBA
programs, including Quiet Title, Compliance, and the Nuisance Abatement Program that either
directly supports or supplements all other DLBA activities. As described below, Disposition would
not be able to sell properties with title issues if it were not for Legal?s quiet title lawsuits. Nuisance
Abatement works alongside all other DLBA tools (eg. sales, demolition, etc.) to stabilize
neighborhoods. Legal?s Compliance enforcement efforts ensure that the City and Citizens of
Detroit get what has been promised not just properties sold, but properties returned to
productive use.

QUIET TITLE

The Legal Department files and oversees expedited Quiet Title Actions pursuant to authority under
Section 9 of the Land Bank Fast Track Act, MCL 124.759. On September 2, 2014 the Chief Judge
of the Wayne County Circuit Court issued a special docket directive creating a special docket
allowing the Detroit Land Bank Authority to file these actions in an efficient manner. Quiet title
actions are filed on properties acquired by the DLBA enabling the DLBA to dispose of those
properties with clear insurable title. Clear insurable title is very important for anyone buying
property?not just from the DLBA, but in general. Clear title provides confidence to the property
owner in their ownership and any investment they make. It is an absolute ore?requirement for any
lending institution considering a mortgage. Indeed, so important is clear title that it is one of the
reasons land banks were created by the state legislature. As of December 31, 2018, this last
quarter, the Legal Department received seven hundred and five (705) quiet title judgments-

ABATEMENT ABANDONED PROPERTIES

The Nuisance Abatement Program (NAP) within the Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) was
established in February 2014. The Detroit City Council delegated non-exclusive authority to
commence Nuisance Abatement litigation on February 18, 2014 (Council Action Number 23).
Properties meeting the NAP criteria are: vacant and unoccupied, boarded, open to trespass,
appear to be abandoned or neglected. The NAP property addresses are initially identified through
governmental data, and then verified by investigators, community groups, or neighbors in
targeted geographic areas. The NAP Target Areas were defined by the City of Detroit Department
of Neighborhoods with input from members of the community. Specific boundaries were
determined with the use of data sources to specify areas where NAP actions would be most
effective?areas with relatively low levels of vacancy where a MAP lawsuit (or three) could really
make the difference on an otherwise stable block.

Service of Process is made on all current owners. A search of tax and title records is conducted
for each property to determine all current interest holders of record; including owners, mortgage
companies, and any other liens. All current owners of record are named in the NAP civil lawsuit,
which requests the 'nuisance? created by the condition be abated. Owners or interest holders in

39 Page

 

properties who fail to respond to the lawsuit may lose their ownership rights to the property at a
hearing for default judgment.

This last quarter, as of December 31, 2018, the Legal Department identified, placed notices
("posters") on one hundred and eighty-eight properties (188) and filed suit against one hundred
and thirteen (113) properties in twenty-nine (29) different neighborhoods throughout the City.
These actions resulted in agreements to address the blight or in judgments awarding ownership
of the properties to the DLBA facilitating blight resolution through the various programs.
This last quarter, there were eighty-one (81) agreements with property owners to rehabilitate
their properties. As of December 31, 2018, the NAP program received fifty-two (52) default
judgments, five (5) donations of abandoned property to the DLBA in lieu of litigation, and one
hundred and thirty?eight (138) properties purchased from defendant property owners in cost-
saving settlements.

NAP lawsuits are an important tool in fulfilling the DLBA's mission of stabilizing neighborhoods by
addressing blighted and abandoned property.

COMPLIANCE

The Compliance Team enforces agreements signed by property owners who have either
purchased a property from the DLBA ("Sales Compliance?), or whose property was the subject of
a nuisance abatement action Corn pliance"). For both Sales and NAP Compliance, property
owners agree to rehabilitate the property within six (6) months and provide regular updates to the
Compliance Team documenting and verifying progress. if a property owner is not able to achieve
compliance within the initial timeframe, but has shown acceptable "proof of progress," the
Compliance Team provides 90-day extensions. If the property is located within a local historic
district, or the property was purchased during the winter months, an automatic 90-day extension

is provided.

The Sales Compliance reporting period begins on the date of closing, when the property owner
takes title to the property and obtains possession. At closing, the property owner simultaneously
executes a Reconveyance Deed the DLBA can record if the property owner fails to rehabilitate the
property and meet the obligations outlined in the purchase agreement. Achieving Sales
Compliance involves an objective three-part criteria including 1) obtaining the appropriate
inspection from the City of Detroit's Building Safety Engineering Environmental Department
(BSEED), 2) occupying the property, 3) exterior maintained no boards, no blight.

The NAP Compliance program works with property owners who have entered into an agreement
to avoid or stop litigation on properties identified as vacant, blighted, and a nuisance. The
agreement outlines their responsibilities for rehabilitating or demolishing the property or selling
it to someone who will. If the property owner fails to provide "proof of progress" on the subject
property, the Compliance Team transfers the matter to DLBA attorneys for court action. NAP

40 Page

 

Compliance is achieved by showing the property is no longer a nuisance to the residents and the
neighborhoods evidenced by occupancy and exterior maintenance no boards, no blight. Once
NAP Compliance is achieved, the DLBA releases its lis pendens and dismisses the lawsuit.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I I I
Auction] Ownan i CommnitvPartners i Nuisance Abatement i In
a I I 
[Salesl (Sale 5) Program (?Mara?: 
man: mm Dunn . . .. lacs-5:1:
333 .mngm . ?lmy; . I . mane-u
an? 1 [rule ?ml  :IDate an? .o-Oatv: m"
I I
Currently i i
235: 1357 471 . 305: 1:15 573
Monitored 5
I 
Cmumune - 
1629 5:9 :15 55 :3 1123 105 so 2:*Fa?ed i i
Compliance 132 'Mmro?up Maple?! Irloonuml? manger"- {nli 1mm.u?c Mumman

0.2 Compliance Success Stories

 



.- ?it? 

9257 PATTON - OWN IT NOW

41 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

ADMINISTRATION 8r OPERATIONS


KELLEY SINGLEFI, DIRECTOR OF ADMINISTRATION 8i OPERATIONS

 

The Detroit Land Bank Authority (DLBA) Administration Operations Department manages day-
to-day internal operations and the centralized resources of the DLBA. Administration 3i. Operations
assists the Executive Director and DLBA staff in all programs leg. Disposition, Inventory,
Demolition, Finance, Legal, and Community Affairs) through the administratiOn and support of
Human Resources, Office Management, information Technology, and Data Solutions.

HUMAN OFFICE MANAGEMENT

The DLBA continues to eXpand and diversify its staff, developing an employee?oriented culture
emphasizing quality, continuous improvement, and high performance. The DLEA's continued
growth necessitates changes in HR procedures and practical implementation. As each department
expands and diversi?es, HR adapts to satisfy full time, temporary, and contractor staffing needs.

I 2014
2015
2016

2017
I 2018

 

2018

 

Barbara Flood, DLBA Ottice Manager, is a welcomed C12 2019 addition. Barbara joined the DLBA in
2014 and brings her prior experience working with Demolition (Data Specialist), Client Services,
and Legal {Compliance Property Rehab Representative) to the Office Manager role. The Office
Manager, in conjunction with HR, renovated the Lactation Room providing a comfortable,
private, and supportive space for DLBA staff once they return from maternity leave. This
attentiveness illustrates and emphasizes the DLBA's employee-oriented culture and Leadership?s
values of the employees in addition to meeting legal guidelines and standards.

In (12 2019, HR and Office Management undertook a DLBA premises audit, evaluating common
areas and offices in need of repair. Working in conjunction with outside vendors and Guardian
Building Lease representatives, Office Management began a series of lease-credited improvement

41 Page

 

initiates. These include repairing, resurfacing, and painting several staff offices; staff breakrooms
and copier rooms on the 11th and 12"" ?oors; and HR compliance signage. This is an ongoing project
and will continue Into the next fiscal quarter.
The health, safety, and wellbeing of DLBA staff is paramount. In response to growing safety
concerns, the Main Lobby will undergo a series of renovations including:

Ballistics rated exterior and interior doors, lighting

- Ballistics glass and partitions for client services representatives

0 Flooring, wall repair and paint, furniture, and children?s play area
Renovation completion is anticipated in 0.3 2019.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

Information Technology (IT) administration and support is a core function of the DLBA. The IT
team provides Computer Information Systems and web solutions for the organization; ensuring
technology is invested in and utilized to streamline operations and deliver quality service.

Enhancing and supporting the DLBA's buildingdetroitorg Website is central to functionality.
In 0.2 2019, the DLBA engaged CBI IT Risk Management to conduct a web application assessment.
CBI was asked to identify any vulnerabilities presenting a risk to the DLBA and provide mitigation
and recommendations to enhance the overall web application security posture. The assessment
provided a comprehensive security evaluation; concentrating on modeling specific attack
scenarios, identifying vulnerabilities, and validating exploitation possibilities. CBI performed
significant reconnaissance thoroughly mapping the application, identifying key technologies, and
establishing the assessment framework. One critical risk vulnerability was identified, four high risk
vulnerabilities, and several medium and low risk vulnerabilities. The most critical risk vulnerability
was found in an unauthenticated area of the application. The IT team, in conjunction with
CBI, remediated all vulnerabilities except one, which is partially remediated.

UID Previous Status Current Status
vf? 'Eme?diatef ?me?d 
V2 Partially Remediated Remediated

V3 Remediated Remediated

V4 Partially Remediated Partially Remediated
V5 Remediated Remediated

V6 Remediated Remediated

V7 Remediated Remediated

42 Page

 

Buildingdetroit.org New and Returning Users
The overall traffic to the website has increased by 10.70% since launch in 2018. Since

implementation of the new buildingdetroitorg website, the number of users increased as well as
the number of return visitors.

bl Burl-all" 0 up-
lath" ?ll-Hrs" ChanIbmnh
-H'l - ?Nib-lurlyL-ha lypv-h-I In, Ian-J?- 
10 70?. ll 13 3'21. [171?.
u: -r

 

 

DATA SOLUTIONS
Data collection, organization, and analysis is critical to the functionality and forward growth of the

Detroit Land Bank Authority?s inventory, Disposition, Demolition, and Legal departments. The
Salesforce system is the most comprehensive property database in the City of Detroit and
the backbone of the DLBA. Since launching in (11 2015, its user base, both internally and externally,
has constantly increased. As City agencies discovered its comprehensive nature, the DLBA receives
frequent requests to add users from departments with diverse missions; from the Detroit Police
Department to the General Services Department. The DLBA provides access and support at no cost

to City agencies.

DLBA all-ohm 
25? UurTypo
- lniomll
Elm
200
150
1016?5de is" ff;
43 Page

 

In addition to larger transformative buildouts, the Data Solutions Team supports day-to-day usage
and provides ongoing structure, content, and functionality modifications. To streamline requests
from nearly 500 users, a ticket-based support module integrated with Salesforce was built. This
ticket system keeps the database accurate and users satisfied allowing comprehensive service to
the residents of Detroit through various programs and initiatives

Completed Salesforce Support 
250

200
150

100

The DLBA's Demolition Department?s administration of the Hardest Hit Fund (HHF) program
requires a large quantity of documents exchange and verification between demolition contractors
and DLBA staff. To streamline this process, the Data Solutions team built a sophisticated document
management system into Salesforce allowing contractors to directly upload their documents and
invoices directly without overwrite or deletion capabilities. DLBA staff can then review, verify, and
directly request updates from Salesforce. Both contractors and DLBA staff report this system is
streamlining their processes, reducing error, and increasing throughput.

The DLBA's Salesforce platform is 'cloud-based? this enables Data Solutions to support a variety of
field operations including Sidelots fairs, Closing fairs, and a variety of surveying methods. In (12
2019 the Data Solutions team built a mobile-based module for the Detroit Health Department
(DH D) to survey occupants of DLBA-owned structures. This assessment helps ensure residents are
directed to appropriate wrap around programs, through both the DLBA and DHD. Additionally, any
DLBA representative can answer questions about specific properties by accessing data on their
mobile devices when they encounter residents at neighborhood events, such as Block Club
meetings. Expanded Salesforce access supports and enhances functionality across the DLBA.

44 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

FINANCE DEPARTMENT

IRENE TUCKER, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

    

The Finance Department continues with the transformation process by aligning itself to fully
support the DLBA's dynamic and ever?evolving operational day-to-day functions. The summary
below will discuss (1) December 2019 Fiscal Year to Date Revenue and Expenses - Actual versus
Budget; (2) Balance Sheet Highlights; and (3) Status Update on the Hardest Hit Fund.

December 2019 Fiscal Year to Date Revenue and Expenses - Actual versus Budget

Overall Revenue for the period was versus Budget of Expenses were 
versus Budget of Budget versus Actual variances were primarily driven by timing of
demolition activities being executed related to the Hardest Hit Fund Rounds 4 and 5.

December Balance Sheet Highlights
0 The Balance Sheet ended strong with a working capital ratio showing that the 

current assets exceeded current liabilities by 1.6 times

0 Restricted cash balance of consisted of maintenance fees for over 10,500
demolitions completed within the Hardest Hit Fund Program (inception to date), along with
private donor donations where obligations have not been fulfilled.

I Designated cash from private donors and contractual obligations amounted to 
Demolition, Rehabbed and Ready).

Hardest Hit Fund (HHFI Updates

FY19 Activity

From July 2018 through December 2018, over was paid for reimbursable demolition
expenses relating to this program. Cash receipts from our partner, MSH DA, exceeded 
representing reimbursements of over 900 demolitions. However, it is projected that the timing of
payments to vendors will exceed reimbursements within this fiscal year. The chart on the following
page is a summary of the projected cash flows to the end of fiscal year.

45 Page

 

HHF FY 2019 Projected Cash Flows
(excluding Demolition Advance Funding)
(in Millions)

9,000
8,000
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000

July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar April May June

Inflows HHF Out?ows

Inception to Date
As of December 31, 2018, the HHF Fund demolition expenses exceeded and

reimbursements (net maintenance and administrative fees) were Thanks to the ongoing
support of both City Council and the City of Detroit, the Demolition Advance Fund signficantly
funded vendor payments through the program. As of December 31, 2018, there was an
outstanding balance of that will be paid in full upon the completion of the program - see
Chart below. We anticipate Draw #5 during 01 of fiscal year 2020 to assist in the payments to the
HHF demolition contractors. We look forward to our continued partnership with City Council and
the City of Detroit in eliminating the City's blight.

Demo Advance Fund Balance Sum ma

 
 

 

 

 

Date Action 5 Amount
Ma rch-15 Setup of Fund 20.0
April-15 Draw if 1 [15.0)
April?16 Repayment 10.0
June 30, 2016 Balance 
August-16 Draw 2 
October-16 Draw 3 (6.0)
June-17 Repayment 5.0
May-18 Repayment 5.0
October-18 Draw if 4 
December 31, 2018 Balance [10.0]
Appendix
1. Unaudited Year to Date December 31, 2018 Revenue and Expenses



Unaudited December31, 2018 Balance Sheet
Summary of Revenue Funding Sources
Graphic Summaries of Revenue and Expenses
FY 2018 Audited Financial Statements

46 Page

 

APPENDIX 1 UNAUDITED YEAR TO DATE DECEMBER 31, 2018 REVENUE AND EXPENSES

Income Statement Summary- Management View

Companyr Name:
A5 of Period Ending: 20191006

Detroit Land Bank Authority

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Audit Status: Unaudited
Report Status: Draft
City Council Grouping Level Actual YTD Budget YTD Variance Variance?i?
Income
300mm Sales 4.105.030 2.454.448 1.731.182 70.2551:
3rd: Lot 53195 307.183 175.000 102,183 109.82%
Cost of Inventory [670,443] 0.00 [670.4483 100.0096
Discounts {030,537} 0.00 [030.5371 100.0096
Gal-I [Loni on 53 of awoe-:57 {78.037} 0.00 175,087] 100.00%
Total Net Sales 2,075,841 2,639,449 230,393 8.5691:
Government Revenue 29.744.127 28.321.120 1.423.005 5.02%
Total Government Revenues"! SHDA) 29,744,127 28,321,120 1,423,000 5.0291:
COD Operating 7.000.000 7.000.000 0 0.00%
GOD Blight 752.488 0.00 752.4188 100.00%
Total City of Detroit Revonue 7,702,488 7,000,000 762,488 10.89011
Inter-Com pan?y Revenue 527.752 0.00 527,752 100.00%
Private Grant Revenue 175.561 350.000 [174.439] (49.84%)
Total Other Private Grant Revenue 703,313 350,000 353,313 100.9516
Donated Goods and Service 340.950 0.00 340,950 100.0096
Inventory mpairrnent {1 505.506] 0.00 (1.505.505) 100.00%
Total Donated Goods and Service {1,1 55,556) 0.00 [1,155,555] 1 00.0015
150 Proceeds 771 225.000 (224.220) [90.509113
Closing Refunds to the Se?ler 101.600 0.00 101,000 100.00%
Fire Escrow Proceed: 40.506 0.00 40.506 100.0091:
Housing Showing Fees 13.075 5.500 7.575 137.73%
Lease Revenue 1.025 10.000 (8.375) (83.7585)
Legal Recoveries 13.455 12.500 055 7.72%
Other Income 8.055 0.00 8.005 100.00%
Quiet Title Fees 130.001 30.000 106.001 353.5496
Total Other Income 31 5,130 283,000 32,198 11 .3891:
Inter-Department Re'tenue 025.694 025.004 0.00 0.0091:
Total Inter-Departmental 625,654 525,694 0.00 0.00%

 

118120191205 PM

47 Page

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX 1 UNAUDITED YEAR TO DATE DECEMBER 31, 2018 REVENUE AND EXPENSES
SUB TOTAL 40,871,105 39,219,262 1,651,842 4.21%

Inter-Department Revenue (625,694) (625,694) 0.00 0.00%
Total Inter-Departmental (625,694) (825,694) 0.00 0.00%
(625,694) (625,694) 0.00 0.00%
Total Income 40,245,411 39,593,569 1,651,842 4.29%
Expenses
am) 000 000 00M6
General Admin Costs 610,955 888,524 277,569 31.24%
Inler?Company Expense 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00%
Personnel Costs 5,626,604 6,128,975 502,371 8.20%
Facilities Costs 708,013 674,024 (33,989) 
Professional Services 1,179,760 2,462,872 1,283.1 12 52.10%
Program Expense 30,977,734 28,439,173 {2,538,561} 
Inter Company Expenses 625,694 625,694 0.00 0-00%
39,728,760 39,219,262 509,498 
SUB TOTAL 39,729,760 39,219,262 509,499 

Inter Company Expenses (625,694) (625,694) 0.00 0-00%
(625,694) (925,694) 0.00 0.00%
(625,694) (625.694) 0.00 0.00%
Total Expense 39,103,067 39,593,569 509,498 1.32%
Net Income 1,142,345 (0) 1,142,345 

 

48 Page

APPENDIX 2

Balance Sheet Detailed - Management View

Company.I Name:
As of Period Ending: 20191006

Detroit Land Bani: Authority

UNAUDITED DECEMBER 31, 2018 BALANCE SHEET

 

11312019 1202 PM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Audit Status: Unaudited
Report Status: Draft
Balance Sheet Current Period June 30 (Last year) Current Vs June
Current Assets
Cash and Cash Equivalents 21.030083 20.201061 1.030.021?
Accruedi'Aceounis Receivable 32.023380 10450.15? 12.551320
Other Current Assets 22. 30320 23,407,430 4 .213. 
Current AssetsTo-tal TE.143.300 03.154548 12.388552
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets 121,723 010.331 105.302
Fixed AssetsTortal T213211 616.331 105.392
Total Assets 100615.023 63.170.9'l3 13.094044
Current Liabilities
Demo Advance Fun: - City of Detroit mot-0.000 5.000.000 {5.000.000}
Accrued-'Acoguris RagaEIe?Oti'g Liabilities 30.534013 28332318 {0.0519001
Current Liabitities?l'otal 15.534018 33.582318 111.951.2001
Equity
Equity 31.32.17.005 30,130,501 1.142.345
EquityTotal 31.11.31.005 30.188361 1.142.345
Tots! Liabilities and Equity 713365.023 63.170.01'0 130911.044

 

49 Page

 

APPENDIX 3 SUMMARY OF REVENUE FUNDING SOURCES

 

DLBA FUNDING SOURCES

MSHDA Hardest
Hit Fund (HHF)

Reimbtn Semean for
approved and anti.? ate
Invoices lm
demolished homes In
the HHF AIBRS oi

Detr mt

Demo Advance
Fund Line of
Credit)

Extended by the City
of Detron and repaid
excluswely by
reimbursements lrorn
HHF (MSHDA) to be
fully paid at the end of
the progr am. allows
for vendors to be paid
prior to

City of Detroit
Operating Grant

Supportfunds the
day-to-day
operations of the
DLBA. offset by
sales revenue
generated from
property sales and
private donations



Sales - Net
Cash ?agged:

Cosh payments
received (net of
discounts. 5i50)
generated from
sales
programs 
Auc:ion.Own It
Now.Side Lot
Sales. Other)

Private
Donatio nsiG rants

Cash or properties
received lrom the
general public to

oilset operating costs

or to support specific
programs (i 9..

Rehabbed and Ready)

 

reimbursements from
the State

 

APPENDIX 4 GRAPHIC SUMMARY OF REVENUE AND EXPENSES
FISCAL YEAR 2019 DECEMBER YEAR TO DATE REVENUE AND EXPENSES SUMMARY

Revenue - Actual YTD
?m

  

HHF Grant
I Net Sales
Private Grant ReVenue
ill-Ht .
ICin of Detroit
I Donated Goods and Service:

I Other Income

Expenses - Actual YTD
"l

  

I Demolition Expenses

I General and Administrative
Costs

Other Prognm Expenses

 

 

Grant lntludes: Stale Revenues, HHF Admin Fee. and HHF Maintenance Fee

?Net Sales includes: Structure Snlei, Discounts, Slde tot Sales. Gain (Loss) on Sale oi Property. mlnusCost oiinvuntory
'Prlvalo Grant Revenue Intludn: Private Revenue and Intar-Company?evenue

'Dnnatad Goods and Services Includes: Dentin-cl Goo-ll and Imp-ill I'T'I'mll?'i'l'n?lul?ii

'Eity ol Detroit Includes: Cityilt'ku cud Hun dciruhumhir 

?0ll1orln:omelndudn:5/SD Fro:todt,Cloaing Refunds, Ewaw Proceeds. House Showing Fees. Leas! Revenue, loul
Other Income. Program Income. and Quietmle Foes

 

 

 

Mdnlon?tilmil. Damon Asbestos Survey. Other Surveys. Dam Winter Glade. Mint-man!

Remediation. Demo overzsit?um Han-Rllt?hui?ble, Demo Non HHF. Demo anti Damn Cinniill

'Glneral and Administrative FacilitisCosts. General Administration costs. Inter-Company Expense. Personnel
Costs and Proitsaionai Services Inter-Departmental Expense

'Olhlr Program Program Expense [curludlnaI all direct Demolition Expenses listed above: but include
indirect demolitionetpenscs?lnt tutti

 

 

50 Page

 

APPENDIX 5 FY 2018 AU DITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
(A Component Unit of the City of De?cit. Michigan)

STA I LMENTS
g?-?hh Rtguir? ?nglemenlag Information}

Jun 30, 2018 and 201'?

CI'Aplauwt-uus

(1mm: 
5 COMPANY

51 Page

 

APPENDIX 5 FY 2018 AU FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

DETROIILANDBANKAUTHORIIY
MWUnitoflhn CilyochtmiLMidlipn)

th uired. nu rm: 1:

June 50. 2.1?

an. lawman.

FORGE 
5 COMPANY

51 Page

DE TROIT LAND BANK AUTHORJTY

9.9m

 

 

EIDEPENDENT AUDIT REPORT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (UNAUDITED)
FINANCIAL 
Statement: of Net Position
Statements of Activities
Balance Sheets Governmenul Funds
Reconciliation of Governmental Fund: Balance Sheds to Sums ofNet Position

Stimulants of Revenue. Expendittnes, and Changes in Fund Balances 
GDVEMII Funds

Reconciliation of Governmental Funds Stamens: ufRevemle. Expendihn'es. and
Changes inthd Balances to Statements of Activities

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT 
REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Schedules of Revenue and Expenditures Budget and Actual 
General Fund (Unaudited)

Note to Schedules of Revenue and Expenditures Budget and Actual -
Gazerll Fund (Unnudited)

DIDEPENDENT REPORT ON ETERNAL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORWG AND ON COWLIANCE AND OTHER MATTERS


18

30

33

 

52 Page

 humuw

I


 

Eu hl 
5a?: Er \n'nld '51 ran:
DNIOII. math-nan 48226 355:!

i513] 965.2655 - Far 955 451-1



 

Octobcr 25, 2018

To the Bond of Dillard's
Detroit 11nd Bad: Authnriry

Rigor! on In. financial Sulement:

W. hm mam! the mm m1: ol' the communal antiwar: and tuck major
Anibal-int (th- m1 mafia-City t-zufliiltmm't7
Michigan. I: of. and far 1:11: 3.11:: end-?. Inn: 30, 2013 and 1017. 1: ml} at: 11:: mind was to ?u
?nanmn. :Iatmunn. ninth militant}- comprui but: ?nancial :mmn. as listed in lint
1:191: ofcoments.

Rugmg?hilim {at Elle Hang [Slaltmon?

Th: management 1: union-.1301: for 1h: preparation and fan of ?l?l ?nancial
:ntunut: 1n uranium. 1nd: account; manila: zen-pad m. ?lmed Status of Ana-in;
[his anluc'x. [In imp. impizmeminoe. and mm? of manual conual :eium to the pupmnan
and fan- of autumn: that ?u hum mam-1:1 misstatement. whom: due to
fraud or emu:

mil: ?in?
mepomnb?jry 1-. to expm: opium: on 6112: annual mumuw. bums on on: mm. W: continual
our audit; in accozdznu wuh auditing pun-1123' accepted Unit?! Stilts of Anne: and
111! apphuhiu to Emma] and?: connian Ill .iudmng srmdauh. mud by [hi
Cannons Gwen] of tho 13mm! Emu :undmi: that We plan and puform ?u audit to
chain unnm about whamerrhi ?nancul :umnmt. are fun Eton: mania! mammal.

in: 3.1141: mwlve: pufonnm; mm: obmn audit undue. about the 1mm: and ?nale-nan: 
tin ?nancial Human. Th! prancing-.1 altered dapud or. ?u mdmr': magnum. uncluduzg [he
augment of the ml: of material of the ?nancial mm. whit? din to ?nd or war.
In than us]: 13mm?. the in?rm comidu: inunni canto} railway In the 
pupal-anon and ?u 1mm?: 05th: mm 3mm: order to damp: audit premium: an: 
appropmn I: tho cumm?. but not for ?u pun-0:! of man; an again an the e??ecmuu; of
uh. muml comi. Accordingly. mm: no mach opuum An and? also 
?u appropunnus nl? accounting policing uad and ?u ol' sipi?nml
nae-mung admit: much by manual. 1: will a: ?11mm; in mm? manna? of in Rancid
mm.



53 Page

 

Board ofDinctm

Dutm?t [and Rink Authm?i?r
Odohur 25. 2018

Pap Tm

'31 REPORT (CONIQTEE


thth?Mm?n?dh?owm??mh?wmh
rape-chl?nmnialwsi?mofh Mach-hits 

30. 2018 and 201?. chasm: in
mfucmiyw?haccaulin. patch-?u ?Mini-United Stabs ofAm-icz

on mull?! Information





Wilminan


?md?sm 



Other Reguired bv Egg-gm Sra?dardr

In:ch with 


minus. 

wu?mncillruponhgaumlimcc. 
accordln? with Auditing Emudm'd: in cunsi?ning 1h: 'mtuul enrol 

W/Wf?h?v?

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
Detroit. Minhinn

54 Page

 LAND BANK AUTHORITY
DISCISSION .LYALYSIS 1991mm:

June 30, 2018 and 1017

 

presents
management's discussion and analysis of the DLBA's ?nancial perfomtance during the ?scal
years that aided on lime 30, 2018 and 2017. Please read it in cnnjunc?on with the DLBA's
?nancial statunenls. which follow this section.

mm HIGHIGHIS

The BLBA's purpose is to exercise the powers. duties. ?tnttions. and responsibilities of an
andthe
StateofMit-higan ?mctions.and
responsibilities of an authority under the Land Bank Act consistent with the inter-gm'ernmental
agreement including. but not limited to. the power. privilege. and authority to acmlire. manage.
andperfarming 
to implement the purposes. objectives. and prosisirsts of the Land Bank Act and the ptuposes.
 and posters delegated to a City authorityde the laws or executive orders.

The deanolitionactivines 
endodhtne 30, 2013 totaled 1.633 comparedto 1.339h11heprettious?scalyear. The
DIBA's mentor)! ofpmperty decreased to 95.242 parcels, consented to 97,185 as of the end of
the previous ?scalyear.

0f TEE HS. VCIAL STATEMENTS

This statements ofnetpositionand
Statements of actit-ities {which are presented on pages 10 and 11) are considered government-
uide ?nancial statements. The balance sheets and statements of revenue. expenditures. and
changes in ?nal balances for governmental funds (which are presented on pages 12. 13. 13. and
16) are oonsideted hind ?nancial statemutts. A discussion of each type of statement
follows-

l-?ingrial Statements

The government-wide ?nancial statements report information about the DLBA as a whole
tuing accomting methods similar to those used by private-sector companies and non-pro?t
organimnons. The statements of net position include all of the BLBA's assets. deferred
ou?ows ofresotuces. liabilities, and deterred in?ows of All of the current year?s
revenue and etpenses are accounted for in the statements of activities. regardless of when
cash is received or paid.

.3-

 

55 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK 
AND ANALYSIS 

June 30. 2018 and 2017

 

1.



- 

Government-Wide finandal 5m temenls (continued)

The two government-wide ?nancial garments report the net position and how they
have changed. Net position represents the di?'erence between the DLBA's total of assets and
deferred News of resources and its total of liabilities and deferred in?ows of resources,
?position Overtime,
in?easesordeausa 
health is moving or deteriorating.



fund ?nancial statements provide more detailed information abmt the funk,
nottheDIBAasawhole 
speci?c sources of ?nding and spending for particular purposes.






program. Beonuse?iis nomination does no! encompass the additional hng-Imntocmof
the government-wide ?nancial slatunei?s, additions! infoimmim is provided on pages 14
and]? 
govunmern-wide?nmdalshimm.



inme?namiaislatmxs data. Acomparism ofthe DLBA's genaal


 

56 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

AND ANALYSIS (C 031131130}

June 30. 2018 and 2017

 

 

Table 1 re?ects a condensed may of the assets, liabilities. and net position as of

June 30= 2018, 2017, and 2016:

Iahle 

Statements 01 Net P051110:
June 3.0. 101% 201?, and 2016
(In m?liom' afdallm)

Assets:
Ch
Esuow deposits
Accoims receivable
Propeny held for resale
Capital assets
Prepaid menses

Iota] Assets

Llahiities:
Accounts payable and accmod expenses
De?ned reveme
Escrow deposits payable
Advances and loans

Total Hillbillies
Net Position:
Net invesunmt in capital assets
Restricted
Um'esnictod

Total Net Position

Total assets increased to $64.0 million as of June 3
2017?- This increase 1ms mainly a result arm ac
Hardest Hit Fund (Tim-"j program and other continual or designated?mds.

-5-

 

 

 

 

 

 

2018 2017 2016

5 18.5 5 11.9 14.5
2.0 -0- 0

19.5 13.3 10.9
23.3 24.5 22.3
0.6 0.2 0.4

0.1 -0- 0.1
6-1.0 5-1.9 $8.7
19.2 11 .0 12.6

5.4 5.2 5.3

2.0 -0-

1.0 185 13-5
33.6 34.7 31.4
0.6 02 0-4

7.5 5-5 5-3
22.3 14.5 11.6

30.4 20.2 5 1.7.3

 

0. 2018 from 854.9 million as of June 30-
Goals cameo in: demolilions under the

 

DETROII LAND BANK AUTHORITY
DISCUSSION AVALYSIS 

June 30, 2018 and 2017

 

 

Total liabilities decreased to $33.6 million as of June 30, 2018= compared to $34.7 million as of
more?, 2017. 

Program.

Table2 DLBA?smeme, innet
position funky-eats ended June 30, 2018. 201?. and 2010:

 

 

 

 

Table 2
Statements ofAeti'dties
For the Year: Ended June 30. 2018, 2017, and 2016
(in millions afdo?ars}
2018 2017 2016
Revenue:
Program revenue 5 67.5 67.0 31.3
General meme -0- -0- (0.1)
Total Revenue .5 67.0 01.2
Expenses:
Land bank program 57.3 64.1 81-2
Net Incuease in
Net Position 10.2 2.9 -0-
Net Position= Beginning of Year 20.2 17.3 12.3
Net Position, End of Year 5 30.4 20.2 17.3

For the year ended June 30. 2018. the general fund revenue on the modi?ed accrual
basis ?as $64.3 million composed to the budget of $83 .0 million This was due primaiily to the

accrual basis were $57.8 million. compared to the ?nal budget of 583.0 million

50 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
DISC AND ANALYSIS 

June 30, 2018 and 2017

 

 

million
from $610 million in the previous year. primarily due to recognition of the forgiveness of debt
by the {tit}.r ofDetroit in the amount of 56.5 million.

Total expenses forth: yearendedltmo 30. 2013 onthe acqualbasisdeereascdtossm million
from $64.1 million in the previous year. primarin due to decreased demolition activities.

CAFIIAL ASSETS

As of June 30. 2018. the DLBA has $616,332 invesrod in capital assets. ?u'nil'ure,
conquers. software, and other equipment. depreciation as of June 30. 2018 was
5516.684.

ECONOMIC IACTORS

The 131.115. is dedicated to rationing Detroit?s vacant, abandoned. and foreclosed propertyr to
minimise. Tommi this miniature are?mrmainditaisions oftbeDLBA:

- [mum ?vision. which is responsible for acquiring.  and assessing the
dimminonoftheptopmy

0 Demolition division, which manages all demolition activities

0 Disposition division, which is responsible for disposing of the property sales or
donations

0 legal division which is responsible for clearing title and enfordng cornpliance with the
City?s Housing Regulations and representing the DLBA for all legal mattus

The detnnli?aing am mitts derelict structures= holding andmaintaming 

invenrorygmerateresunieforme
CW Emtplesof?sesenmctim side

lotsalos. andspou'al pin-poseprojects.

As the opportunity arises. the DIJBA will also execme federal state. and local grants that have a

inconjunctionwiththeCityand
the Michigan State Housing Magma): Auhnrity 

-7-

 



DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY


June 30. 2018 and 2017

 

gym; 03 gg (C93 mm}


MST-DA.

The 013A will also continue to build relationships with the philanthropic

community, seeking to attract fomdation giant mipport to leverage public ?nds.


 
BLBA. received an additional SS million of PIT-1F monies to demolish approximately 500
Dmingtheyearmdedlune 30, 2015,theDLBAwasawardedanother
$50 structures. TheDlBAms awarded
an additimal 563.1 million during the year ended June 30. 2016. Diving the ?scal year
ended Time 30, 2017, MST-DA awarded $88-1  plus an additional $5 million


The


Public and Private Partnerships The 13133 has formed pai'metships with local
organizations to inplement a program providing newly rehabilitated hunts in targeted
neighborhoods ofDettoit. The DLBA received grants of $1.3 million supported by a loan of
$2 million to rehabilitate the housing and alleviate blight in the autoimde neighborhoods.

 costs. The outside organizations will rehabilitate the identi?ed paper-lien

Under Michigan lam?rDLBAwillreceioe S?percmt ofthe spod?ctax gm?edouall
propu'ties years meccdingthehamfuofthemto
primoms. 
the property were not exempt from ad valorem taxation These ?mds will be received by the
BLBA in the same manner and the same time that the City distributes Cm tax collections
to all taxing jurisdictions for which it collects property taxes. The DLBA budget ?rst
realized this revenue solute inMay 2015.




The


attending relationships widi philanthropy, andparhieiingwidi canoninity msto iirqirove
Detroitneighborhoods-

 



 

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

DISC 173510)? AND ANALYSIS 

June 30, 2018 and 2017

 

(TN 


?nances and to demonstrate the accountability for the nmey it tracings. If you haw:
any questions abont this report or need additional ?naucial tuniact the Chief
Financial O?icct?s of?cc of the Benoit Land Bank Authun'ty. 500 Gtiswoid Smite 1200.. Detroit.
Michigan 43226. Requests can also be madeby at (313) 974?6869.

61 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
Slim?IS Of NET POSITIOS

June 30. 2018 and 2017

 

 

Assets:
Cash (Note B):
Umesilicted
Rusticth

Total Cash
Escrow deposits mote B)

Mums ?nimble (net of allowance 01321528
and 3:0- ibr 2018 and 2017. respectively)

Total Assets

Liabilities:
Abrams payable and accrued 
De?ned rem (Note D)
Escrow deposits payable (Not: B)
Advancesandloans (Now E)

Total Liabilities
Net Position:
Net in capital assets
Rstticicd
Unrestticied
Total Net 

See note: to ?nancial statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gain-mania! Activities

2018 2017
8 11,030,872 8 6,361,212
7.508.407 5.533.705
18,539,279 11,894,917
2.000.000 -0-
19.456.157 18,252.688
66.096 4,082
23,341,284 24,511,421
616,332 204.413
61.011113 51,567,516
19.170400 10.971199
5.411.913 5,161,873
2,000,000 -0-
1000,0011 18.500.000
33,502,310 34,635,072
616.332 204,418
7,508,407 5,533,705
123121.091 14.494331
5 30,436,830 5 10,233,454

 



mm
For the Years Ended June 30. 2018 and 2017'

 

as:

Lead batman:
Demolition expenses
Sal-?es and ways
Payroll Ines
Wayne bene?ts

Acq?silmu and mime

Board-ups. sales preparation. 
Wm! fees

Matthias

Oocupanqr

O?ce ?(panes

Inns-me

De?ecil?ou (Note C)

Other expenses

Total Prop-alumnae:

Program Revenue:



Hades! Hit Fund grant

Other Exams and contacts

Don-ted properties

SW sales

Side 191 sale:

0111:: prop-m1 revenue

Gain (loss) on disposition: of properly held 661' male

Total hop:- Rei'enne

Set herein in Net Position

Net Position. Beginning onear

SetPod?omEnd onnr



-11-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Government-1mm?

2018 1017
5 35,444,680 5 43,872,831
7.700.231 7.247.977
674.718 571.936
1.105.985 1,121680
5,884,197 5,361,906
2,303,224 2,598,137
1.437.834 1.243.714
472.226 36.690
1.184.182 ?19,896
268,068 261.207
77,272 69.484
182.287 155-049
611.155 492.956
57.346059 64,104,463
35,369,033 36,711,066
23,602,611 23.641991
910,000 3.021.011)
9,025,906 6.127.913
797,737 519.843
1,513,398 514,638
(3.663.750) (3,508,511;
67.550335 67,028,369
10,204,376 1.924.406
205232.454 [7,308,043
3 30,436,830 5 19,131.45!

 

 

63 Page



 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Jill a, 1018 
3:17

G-rd roll Ill-I TIN
A 

Gui ahu- I):
u? 1 [0.132334 I man I 4 I I 8,181.1? I 14?? I 5.351.112
7.50m: 7M7 Sail?! 5.533.701
cm ll -0- ?.5392?! ?lit-"9 man -0- [7
In" duly-bub  3; :mm .0-
Mnun ml!- tnu oi
Inn-? If IZIJZI 90-h
191! d. 1017. 1145!?? 50 19.4583": I [112.? ?.23 
4.01! 
min-I2 5a 33.2422? Baum N511 All
1'?smug-
Sunous Io ?at-nil sum
-12.

64 Page

 



- '5 - 

ll- 30, ?ll at 101'!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a up
Spud-l 1-H
Gourd In- 19-1 Gnu-l lav-I Tad
mu. 
arm


Mn NIH- ll
Inc19.1w I 10173.!? 1 I I 1033.1?
3.411.!? 115L871- 5.151.071
Em pIy-su-(Xml) mum 2mm -0-
Mnmr- an! lam 1m.? 1m IMOIIM 
hum: 50 5  ml M85111 4- 4- MISMI
Nun! Man a! 
(Nab DJ [5.379.133 ??29,333 
?l-Il Ii
mun-l
?an 5. 50 ?Jim J- 41- 
hills-II:
Mi 3.407.)? 21507.!? 3.515.303 3.511.?!
1.301401 24?? 7.715.575 3.535.105 3.112.103
Una-spa can! my?: ?ammg 
nut-mu- Ml 4- 4m
Tull Mu.
Duh-rolling
alum-u: KW 3 null I. 2? I .0- 39.60.?.
S. now: to and-l sum.

.13..

65 Page

 

DETROIT LAND BANK. AUTHORITY

 

June 30. 2018 and 2017

2018 2017

Toul Fund Balms, mammal Finds 14,491,365 8 6,080,983
Amalia reported for in the
gunman: ofnet posi?un di??er ?'om mm: reported

inthe cine tothe
following;

Camel assets and in mime-.- ue m1
?nmial mum and. madam, are no! upon-ed
inthe consist arm: fanning
Deptecilble capital assets:
Cost 1.133-016 538,815
Less: Accumulated deputation {516.684} (334,397)

Certain mm applicable to governmental activities
is not Ivailablefowse an of?ine and uf?lepa'lod and,
lhere?nre. is reported as I. defend in?ow chasm

inlhe ?nds. nfthefo?nmng:
Unavailable revenue 155929.133 13.941053

Total Net Position,

GovernmentaIAcli?lies 504316.830 20.232454

See notes to ?nancial antennas.

-l4?

66 Page

 

For 30, 201! um?

 

Inuit:
azimuth-Igl-
Ohm-[m
null-wini-
Sumnh
Sikh?)-
Oil's?I



lip-in:
On?r

9-th



In?ll-I?m
Incl-m pup-?n II mil
Mina!?
Alt-?ail.
only
u?u qua!
hull-u

Dung-II
hid-hr?mq
hum

Sunnis. no ?nancial nil-mu.

 

 

 

 

I 1
me: he
Gal-I Ill- Gu-nl Till

ll! Allan: In! Al 
I I -O- 33m? I 33.011533 I '1 31.533113
5.602.?! 23.601!? 
9mm MOM 3.011.005
9.03.906 9mm 6.127.993 11.11!
791137 319.1? mm
I 13-01%? 33325 135.355 514.6"
 ?35013?: .JNJD MM
Lilia! ?25 ?all?  
3 3.444.?! 45.372531
7300.23 1 7.709.331 7.147.977 7.147.317
671.118 674.71! 371.951! 371.956
5 I. 105..? 1. 
3.311.?! SJIIM
305.21% 2.3032}! 2.13.13? will}?
1.431334 1.243.714 1.143.714
?2.126 +1136 36.? 2mm
11.34.15: 1.1?.1 
365.068 263.0? 151.201 211.101
77.2?! T1172 9.484 
GIILIZS 350 m3! 755 492356
9?20! 195.201 -0-

w" .Lm LAME.


67 Page

 

YOIBM JI- 30. I'll 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

M1
lucid 
G-nl h- Inn?Ir Tod
I'd rd II hi all?
[ma innu- "clap?h- I I Uni-1.71. I mull I. Mid-m 5 ?an I My!)
ou?-d- lulu! (I56):
huh-Innu- 1.545.050 (LIAM 4- 
Kuhn-summar-lu-u worm mun rum?, (Luann 
Haul-n. I?h of?- an!? mm mun mm: 9.11151!
I-IlIhI-Ll?d?ll I 1% i ?i 1 all?! 

Sum-no m.

46-



 

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 
  
 

      
  

   
     
    

- a: ?t x. .
mawmms. {23.1.5555 r5
ACTBTIIES

   


ALANCES TO STATES 0

 

For the Years Ended June 30, 2018 and 201?

 

2018 2017

Net Increase (Decrease) in Fund Balances=
Governmental Funds 5 8,410,382 (3 ?30,962)

Amounts reported [or governmental activities in the
statements of activities di?er ?'orn amounts twat-ted
in the ?nd: statements of revenue.

the following

Capital outlays are reportedan atpendihnes in
goverual funds Howwer. in the statements of
activities. the cost of capital assets is aim-rated over
theirestimated urethl litres as depedetinnexpensn.
and gains and lossesan ?ledirposi?onofcapilnl assets
are reported on the statements of activities. During the
these mourns are as follows:
Capital mr?aj- 594,101 -0-
Depreciation expense (182,187) (155,049)

Certain. revenue reported in the statements of activities
dnea not pmvide current tin-racial resumes and.
therefore. is not reported a! revenue in gut?emmuatal
M. During these anaemia: at
as follows:
Unavailable mwnue, end of year [5.339.133 13.941053

Less: Unavailable revenue: beginning of year 93.941053: 112316.636]

Net Increase in Net Position.
Governmental Activities 1.924.406

See notes to ?nannial statements.

-17.

69 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK 





June 50, 2018 and 2017

 

3201?: .t NATURE or RGASILKTIOS m1 SBBIARY or sroxtt-?rc Al?s?1?
90:15:55

   

Nature of Activities and Failure

The Detroit Land Bank Authority {the was created on Fehntary 18. .1009 as a
Public Body Corporate It was created through an inter-local agreement between the
Michigan Lend Baal: FastTrach Authority and the City ofDetrott (the "City"! for the purpose of
adnunistering landhanlt programs and in the City

For ?nancial reporting the DLBA is a component unit of the City because the majority
of the members of the Board of Directors ts appointed by the City?s mayor and is
con?rmed by the Detroit City CormdL which approves the budget. There are no
m.

The DLBA has established the Detroit Land Bank Commanin Development Corporation (the
The DLB CDC is a legally separate. tart-exempt component unit of the DLBA,
The DLBA has the power to appoint a majority of the DLB CDC 's directors. and the DLB CDC
was created and operates exclusively to support the DLBA As such. the ?nancial acuity of the
DLBA CDC is included as part of the ?nancial statements.

Easis o! 

The smenruals of the DLBA consist of germ-wide ?nancial statement which
imiude the statements of net position and statements of activities. and ?nd ?nancial statements.
which include the balance sheets and statements of revenue. erqtendittnes. and changes in ?rnd
balances for 3mm 

financial Statements

The paramount-wide ?nmral statements report tnfornaat'tort about all of the DLBA's assets.
deferred out?ows of resources. liabilities. deferred in?ows of resources. net positron.
revenue. and expenses. Deferred out?ows of resources represent the of net
assets by the DLBA that or applicable to a future reporting period. while deferred In?ows of
resources represent the acquisition of net assets by the that is applicable to a future

reporting period. and net positron ts the residual of all other elements presented in the
eutectic-ms ofnetporition.

1' rut! Financial Stator-ell:

 

For ptnposes of the fund ?nancial statements. the accounts ofthe DLBA are organtned on the
basis oi? governmental fluids. each ts considered a separate accounting entity.



 

70 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK. AUTHORITY

ST ?t 3.113

June 50. 2018 and 2.17

 

NOTE A 0F DRGANILKTION AND 01" 
AC POLICIES 

Basis of Presentation geontinned]

'lStn et n'

The operations of each fund are accounted for mt]: a separate set of self-balancmg accounts
tho: comprise its assets. deferred out?oii's of resources. habtlittes. deferred in?ows of
returnees. ?end balance. revenue. and expenditures. The various funds are amortized by
type in the fund ?nancial statements The following hands. all of which are considered major


Quentin!

The general fund the general operating fund of the DIBA It is used to eccotmt for all

?nanctal mom-cu other than those removed to be eccmintedfor in another ?nd.


The special revenue fund re?ects the activities of the DLBA CDC. The acting-

 

of the CDC is to raise funds for the DEA and to provide additional sources of

operating income-

The DIE-A's fond balances are chsai?ed as follows. booed on the relative strength of the

spending constraints placed on the pupae-es for which resotn?ees can be used:

5 

These ?md consist ofamounts that are not in a form (such :5 property
held for male. inventory. or prepaid expendintres) or thet are required to be maintained

intact.

Restricted

These ?nd balances consist ofnmotnits that are consumed to speci?c purposes by their
providers {such as stators. bondholders. and higher levels of statement), through

constitutional provisions, or by enabling legist

-19.

71 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

?thS.?N 

June 50. 2018 and 2017

 

NOTE A NATURE OF .L?tt'D L-ltR?t' OF 
POLICIES 

Basis of Presentation scoldnnedl

unch Ettore ents tl
Cnng?ted

These thud balances coasts! of mermts that are constrained to speci?c purposes by the
DLBA itself. turn; us highest level of decision-melting atuhortry. ts the Board of
Directors To be reported as committed. such amounts cannot be used for any other
1: ose unless the Board of Directors takes action to remove or change the constraint.
The Board of Directors establishes {and modi?es or rescinds} fund balance
commitments by passage of a or ld?pl?lon and amendment of the

budget.



These ?md ecnsist of amounts that the ULBA intends to use for I speci?c
purpose Such mtent can he expressed by the gout-mug body. which is the Board of
Directors. or by on o?ictnl or body to Wh??h the Board of Directors clelegntes the
authority. such as the DLBA's duly authorized agents. Assigned fund balances are
ally through adopnon or amendment of the budget.

Haitian!

These ?md helnnces consist of tint Ire evn?nhle for my purpose. Only the
gallant! ?tnd he I positive unassigned fund 

Basis of Accounting
Government-Wide Financial Statements

The government-rude ?nancial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of 
using the econouttc resources nteastn?ement fonts. Accordingly. revenue ts recorded when
earned and expenses are recorded tvhen incrn'red. Grants and other revenue mtenderl for use
in spect?c projects are classi?ed as program revenue All other revenue is closst?ed as

generll revenue.

 

72 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK. AUTHORITY

C?s'l

June 30. 2018 and 2017

 

3:011 A NATURE OF ORGANIZATION AND Slil?l?l?'t' 0F 
POLICIES (C 

Basis ?Accounting 
Fund in. :t

l' 
The ?rnd ?nancial statements are prepared on the modi?ed accrual basis of accounting using
the flow ofetnreut ?nancial resurrect as a measurement focus. Under the modi?edeca-ual
basis of accounting. revenue is recorded when susceptible to accrual. which ts when it is bod:
measurable and available "Available" means collectible Within the current period or soon
enough thereafter {Within 60 days} to he used to ptt?y liabilities of the current period.
Expendittues. other than interest on long-term debt. are recorded when the liabth 1s
if measunhle In applp'ng the mscepnhle-to-accrual concept to intergovernmental
reunite, the legal and committal requirements of the numerous individual programs are
used as guidance. Monies virtually unrestricted as to purpose of expenditure and revocable
only for failure to comply with prerenhed compliance requirements are re?ected as revenue
at the time of receipt, or earlier if the mseepn'ble-to-aoctual criteria are met.

Expendirtues the! are incurred for purposes for which both restricted and unrestricted fond
balances are nuilahle are applied ?rst to available restricted fund balances. then to
tnrrestricted fund balances. Expenditures that are for purposes for which committed,
assicned. and massigned fund balances are available are applied ?rst to available committed
fund balances. then to available assigned fund balances. turd ?nallyr to fund
balances-

tet?

Brent revenue is recognized when expenses that are reimbursable under an egreunent with the
funding source are incurred.

Receivables

All receivables are shown as net of an allowance fortnco?ectihle mounts.

Capital Assets

Capital assets are de?ned by the DLBA assets an initial indit'tdual cost of more than
55.000 and an estimated useful life in excess of one your. Such assets are recorded at historical
cost. Donated capital assets are recorded at their estimated fair velue at the date of donation.

secretion on all essets is provided on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
die related assets. which range from three to we years.

-21-

 

73 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

?1 TO ST 

June 30, 2018 and 2011'

 

NOTE A OF ORGANIZATION MY SIGNIFICAINT
POLICIES 

Held for Resale

Real property inventory consists of properties and their associated costs. Pmperties are recorded
at cost which includes the purchase price plus all associated costs to get each property ready for
sale. toeachpeopem'nansfera foam theDLBAto the
purchaser. The DLBA has 95,242 and 91185 properties in inventory held for resale as of June
30. 1018 and 2011'. respectively. With a cost of 53.341334 and 534.511.421a5 other 30. 2013
and 1017,. respectively-

of Retngt?ces

Deferredhi?ows ofresourcee representmennethatappliea to a?uttn'eperiodandue not
considered to be wailable as of the ?nancial statement date. Therefore. these amounts are not
recognized as revenue in the fund ?nancial statts until the}r become available.

a?nn

ran a ?on-z and 

Transfers ion: the DLB CDC to the DLBA In water! the DIRK: operations are recanted as
inierfund transactions in the ?nd ?nancial statements. All inter?md martian: and balances
have been eliminated in the accompanying ?nancial statements.

The DLBA uses fair value meannements in the preparation of its ?nancial statements, which
utilize unions inputs. including those that can he teadilv observable. corroborated. or are
geoenlh' mobaervable. The DLBA utilizes market-based data and valuation teohniques that
maximin the use of observable inputs and  the use of unobservable inpnia.
Additionallt'. the DLBA appliea that matltet participants would use in pairing an
user or liability. including nominee about rink.


sure fair value. Financial assets and liabilities are into this three-level fair value
hin'archy basal on the inputs to the valuation technique. The ?ir value hierarchy gives the
hi?mt prioriti- to quoted price: in active markets for identical assets and liabilities and the
lowest prion? to mnhaervable inputs.

 

74 Page

 AUTHORITY


?2 .

June 50, 2018 and 2017

 

NOTE A NAHJH OF ORGANHATIDN 3ND film-ER? 
ACCOUNTDIG POLICIES 

Fah- 1ifalue hieusuretuents gronrinuerll
The various levels of the fair value hierarchy are described as follows:

0 Level 1 Financial rte-sets and liabilities whose are based on imedjusted quoted
market prices i?en?cal assets and liabilities in an active market that the DLBA has the
to access

0 Level 2 Financial assets andliahilitier whose ulues are based on quoted prices in markets
that are not active or model inputs that are obsermble for substantially the full term of the
asset or liability

0 Level 3 Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on prices or valuation
techniqu that require input: that are hath unobservable signi?cant to the overall fair
value measrn'ement

The use of ohsuvahle make! data. when available. is unil'ld in melting fair value
measurements. Iwhen inpursusedto meme fairvalue fell withindi?'erent levels ofthe
hierarchy. the level within which the ?ir value meannement is categorized is based on the
lowest level input that is signi?cant to the ?ir?h'll'l? wmmt.

A: of Jtme 30. 2018 and 2017, dues not have any ?nancial assets or liabilities mbiect
to being classi?ed in any of the above categories.

of re?t Bi 515

'lhe DLBA received funding Earn the Michigan State Housing Development Au?oriry
for the purpose of demolishing vacant and abandoned in the City. Such
revenue received from MSHDA for the years endedlune 30. 2018 and 2013' totaled $35,369,033
and 538.211.1585. respecn?vely. or 52 percent and 57 percent, respectively. of total revenue. The
DLBA utilized three vendors :11qu the year ended lime 50. 1018 and two vendors during the
year ended lime 30. 2017 for purchases of 513.780.17?8 and 511905.601. respecm'el}: or 3.1
percent and 24 percent. respectively. of total pmchates. A balance of 51.03315 and 5135310
was due to these vendors as ofhmeil}. EDIE andl?l'a'. respectively.

.23-

 

75 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK 

. 3t- 1.

June 30. 2018 and 2017

 

NOTE CASH AND ESCROW DEPOSITS

Cash Denoslu

State of Michigm (die ?State-"J statutes require that cu'li?cttles of deposn. savings uceotmts.
deposit accoImtS. and depository receipts he nude with halts doing businessw and having a place
ofhusiness inthe State that are also members of: federal or national imam corporation

Custodial credit rid: is the risk that in the event of a bank failure, the dqioait: may not
he returned to the DLBA. The DLBA does not have a deposit policy for coatot?al credit risk.

A: of June 30. 2018 end 2017, the carrying amounts of deposits and bank balances, and
the bank balances that are not covered by Eden! depository inmnee. are as ?ollows:

 

 

2013 an
Carrying amount of deposits 5 18.539219 5 1.39-1.91?
Total bank balance: - 1.1. .
Unitasde and uncolleteralizedbanlt balance: 5 15.533133 5 {1.31m
Depot?;

Escrow deposits are monies which are provided by the City to ful?ll the requirements of the
title common): as part of the abatement program If a Nuisance and Abatement Program
issuer receives my ?lings with the Court of Claims for property sold by the DLBA. thore funds
held in the escrow accotnt will he used to cover legal expenses associated with enforcing the
requuementa of the ode sole Any escrow ?inch not used are retained to be remitted hack to the
City Therefore. the escrow balance has been recognized as both an asset and a liah?iq' in the
accompanying ?nancial sit-tennis-

As of June 30, 2013 and 2011, the carrying amounts of escrow deposits and escrow
bank balances. and the escrow bank balance: font not covered by federal depository
insurance. are as follows:

 

2018 2017
Coming amount of deposits 5 2.000.0G0 -
Total had: balances  
Uninsm'ed and moolleteralized hank balances i 1.733%  3.

 

75 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

V0 

June 30, 2018 Ind 2011

 

NOTE CAPITAL ASSETS
Depmilhle cupiul Hut activity forlhe years ended June 30. 2018 Ind 201? in IS follows:

 

 

 

Ferdinand Cay-In
Jug pit??u TH
can:
Mums-92m 149.22}. .1431?.
Ill-I:qu
ll. 1011 -0- 161,"! 376,"! 538.!?
Am JAIL Ali-319. 4m.
Elli-ll,?
30,201! I 19'! 5 3 533;! 5 1i

NHLZON I 5 06,50? 5 l12,M1 3 179.348
Wm 124.449 155,049
Human
30, -0- ?11" 231,1? 334,3"
?andndu up.? 32.211 41,904 11I=l72 

30,101! I 5 man I 355.151 5 516,-!
haw-1m:
Eel-3n: ruin, 2011' I I am 1. 139.452 5 104.411!

Ballast. In: so. 201: mr' ?3:31:73?
NOTE DEFERRED REVENUE DEFERRED DTLOWS 01' RESOURCES:

The BILBA- 51-? 1.918 and 55.161373 an: af?ne 30. 2013 and 201?. mpeem-ety. available
under I nuan of gun! agreements with funds originating tom wins fmda?ons.
corponuons. and the Cu}- for nun-mes Lurch-111g an establishment of operations
relaled to die Nuisance Proceethng: Ind Blight Autumn! Prop-Inns. in :ddilion to pinning
activities aflhe DLBA. These Induces remainedm?lired ts ofJune 30.1018 and 201? mi
ue recorded as de?ned revue.

.25-

 

77 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

?20 ?5 

June 50. 2018 and 2011'

 

NOTE DEFERRED AND DEFERRED BEE-1.003 OF RESOURCES


The DLBA had a hairline of $15,329,133 and $13,953,053 15 of June 30, 3018 and 2017.
respectively.  'nt MEI-IDA funding. for which expense: wen: interned prior to the end of

described in Nate A. Accordingly. thete mourns Ire clari?ed IS deferred In?ows ofresuurees
an the fund ?nancial sutenrents.


The D1139. receives and Inns to con?rm apuntinns tint the Hardest Hit Fund
and blight elimination until is received from MEI-IDA or from other

sources. They are as follows:

0 A $20,000,000 line of credit with the City to bridge funds needed turthe prugrm until
reimbursement is received from MSHDA

0 An interest-free nth-nae from the City to the nun-HHS 
A $2,000,000 loan from In outside party to the DLBA to support blight taper-ulnar:

The must-riding balances on these ?knees and 10m are as follow: as ofJune 30. 2018 and
2011':

 

 

 

1018 2017
Due to City:
Line of credit I 5.000.000 3 10,000,000
Interest-?ee dance -0- ($500,000
Tot-l Due to City 5,000,000 16,500,000
Loans due to other parties 2.000.000 3.000.000
7.000.000 10,500,000

 

the City to support the nun-Hill: programs was 56.5 Imihon as of
line 30. 2017. On August 24. 2017. the Cit}.r noti?ed the DILBA the: the City app-wed treating
the brim as In eaqrenee an the City's ?nancial stntunents and would not require mm
As such. this Idtranne been reclassi?ed as grunt rewrite in the accompme ?nmcinl
mutants duriugthe}wendedlune 30,2010.

The inten-tt??ee advance from

46-

 

78 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

June 30, 2018 and 2011

 

NOTE LEASES

The DLBA lanes o?ice space not! equipent made: operating lenses tint expire at various due:
November 2022. Future minimmn lease payments outlet time looses IS of lime 30.
2018 no as follows:
For the Years Ending June 30:

2019 5 842.693

2020 854.978

2021 868,0?8

2022 885.104

203 662

Tot-l Minimum Lease Pimento 3.451.515



Rural expense under operating losses for the years enbd Juno 30. 2018 and 2017 was 5701.454

and ?424,555. respectively.

N: 
The IDLBA has insinuate policies covering its directors and of?cers. It also has groan] Liability
insurance Incl property immune covering its various assets. Due to the extent of mom-once that

terIBAmojnhim. Eternal: oflosstolheDLEJL inmmgemcnt's opimomis minimal
NOTE HDTARDSEQI. ACE OYSTABILITY

Annual budgets are adopted on it basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted
in the Umted States of America and Store law for the general All mun] appropriations
lapse attire and ofthe ?scal year.

Under the State's Uniform Budgeting and Accomnnig Aer, actual expenditures for cor}- wagered
expenditure category are not to exceed the mom: for that category. The Uniform
Budgeting end Accounting Act per-nuts governmental entities to amend their bridge? dunng the
year. and require: amended budgets to be approved by the governing body prior to expending
?nals in excess of tire Imqu wagered for that category.

.21-

 

79 Page

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY



June 30. 2018 Ind 2017

 

NOTE STEEL-1RD SHE. COMPLIANCE. AND 


Din-insane}me IuneiO. 2018. theDlBA innumedetqtendittnes inettcess oftlte mounts
budgeted as follows:

 

Actual VII-inn
Pigtail tan: 5 619.410 5 674,718 (55,308)
Baud-wet. 5:1 mum
and debris rum-41 13450300 2.303 ,224 (853,224)
Adi-uniting 286.853 472,226 (185,373)
0mm 1,085,875 1,134,182 (98,309)
Inna-em 62,000 71.172 (15,272)

Rename was au?eient to envertbe enters expenditure-L
1 FEW AC COD-T36 

The Gunmetal Acretnt?ng Baud issued Statement of Government]
Accounting Standards No. 31'. Lenten tn June 201? 56.1.5 No. requires the
recognition by lessees of assets and liabilities that arise from all lease transactions. except for
letter with a lease term of 12 months or less. The lestee stemming model under 56.5.5 bin. 87

substantially the tune manner at the casting accounting for capital leases. SGAS No. 87' alto
requires expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding the amount. tinting. and
uncertainty of rash flows exiting leases. SGAS No. 3? applies to the DLBA's ?nancial
statements for the year ending June 30. 2021. with earlier permitted. The
DLBA's mgemeni has not detennined the impact on its ?nancial statements er a remit of
implementing SGAS No. 87.

The GASB issue-d SGAS No. lid. Certain Disclosures Related to Debt, Enduring Dim?
Borrowing: and tn March 2013. Under 5035 Ne 33. in addition to existing
diselosrn'e requirements related In debt. disclosures will be required regarding the of
mad lines of credit 1nd assets pledged es calleterel for debt. Also. the disclosure requirements
far nettein terms tn debt egreemuts will be expanded. and debt direlrmnes regarding direct
humming; and duet: placements of debt Will be required to be reported reparater from debt
disclosures regarding other debt SGAS No. 88 to the DLBA's ?nancial statements for
the year ending June 30. 3019. With earlier implementation permitted The 
management hes not detemnned the unpart on its ?nancial Statements as a result of
inntlernenling SGAS No. BB.

 

80 Page

 

FIRED UPPLEEK 0?

81 Page

 

For 201. Ill 3017

 

 

 

 

1111 131?
11111. 11:11.
11.1 11-1 Vl?LuIil
A A 4m
Ill?c
1:11-31:11 .1- 1 612-1111 1 11,111.11? 1 31.111111 1 (213111.194) 1 121.131.1111 1 113131.211 1 111111.131 1 111111.112}

11-1-11- 11.1111.111 1111111111 3.112.111 1122.111 1141 1.11: 114111111 211.111.1111 9,111.13
nun-nippl- 1111.111 1111.011 3.1121111 3.111.111
4.411.111 4.411.111 1.111.111 4.514.111 1.111.211 1.111111 1.111311 (1.111.327:
.1- ul. 1111.111 1111111 1.111 111.117 111.111 110.111 111.111 111.141
111-1- 111101 141.001 111.111 21.141 1mm 1.111.111 1.11.111 (2.471.111)
titl?tuanu
1-1-1
irllii 12111733 alwt1sm 1151111:i 13111353
nun?? 2.2a m._sa_x.__gam _1I.I_um 
Dan: I
nun-qu- 11.111111 11.111171 115.111.1111 24.111191 111.112111 111112.115 41.111111 111111.111
sun-Inn 1.142.111 1342.111 1.111251 012.11: 1.711.111 1111.153 1:41.117 1136.314}
aqua 1-1 111.1111 511,411 111.71 1 cm 121.411 11.1.4111 171.111 (41.111)
1.131.121 1.114.121 1.111.111 721.143 1.111.111 1.1111111 1.1221111 111.1111
u?n' 5.111.111 1.911.111 1.111.191 1.121.111 11.31.11: 11.11.1111 1.111.115 1.111.111
Balm 
dudu?ul mam 1.111.111 2.113.211 mm? 1.411.100 1.410.100 2.511.117 (1.141.131)
iht-i-II- 1.411.916 1.11-1.11: 1.411.114 11.1112 111.1111 111.1111 1,211.1? (521,114)
111.111 111.113 471.2111 (111.1111 411.111 411.1011 115.1111
1.111.111 1.111.171 1.111.111 (11.1111 124.111 121111 11111 14.111
1111:..- 410.111 461.111 2:111 111.912 151.111 117.1111 211.111? 111.111
11.111 62.111 77271 (11.27:) 11.111 11.111 11.411 112.411]
ail-q..- 111.111 111.1111 111.111 111.111 111.101 111111 mm 41219
Gui-luliqy 114211 514:1u 41
11-1
mm .LM 1.32.3.

511121111111 1cm oft-1.12111 ?Hm?Wild? (311ml 
-30.

82 Page

 



end?m
div?u

on!?



Hut

M1
kin 

run-mu

ugh: all van35.054 1.95.9? [41% 1.35.0?
i 4- l- I I ?165711 I I 

SIIDI mm dmmunl-p-?h??W-dxn? (pull! M.

-31-

83 Page

 

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

x: 3.1; 
951 

For the Years Ended June 50. 2018 and 2017

 

NOTE A BUDGETS AND BUDGETARY 

The Detroit Lind Ben]: Authority (the establishes I Ensign that is re?ected in the
?nancialsmtemmls formegenenl?md. The 
of accounting.

Budgeted amount: are as? presented and appmved by the 0135': Bond of Directors.
are Ihe DLBA's mpmt. Unexpulded appropriations lapse at
lheend (lithe ?scaly'en'.

.32-

84 Page

\tlL?JliLil 
IIMI 

?rm: I Ann-noon;-

GI



 

Hultl 
Ft 35 ?l??wl?ll? ?rroel
Drtrott. Mtrhagalt 45225 5635?

965 11555 I Fae (313] 961': 451-1

INDEPENDENT REPORT ON ETERNAL CONTROL ot'm
JED ON OTHER 

October 25. 2018

To the Board of Directors
Detroit Land Bank Authoct'it}r

We have ludited. in accordance with auditing stmdards generally accepted in the United States
of America and the standards applicable to ?nancial audits contained in Government 
issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. the ?nancial staterooms ofthe
governmental activities and each major ?nd of the Detroit Land Ban]: Authority {the 
aso?endfortheyearmdedhmci?. 
which collectively comprise the basic ?nancial statements. and here issued otn report
thereon dated October 25, 2018.

Intent: for 17' nodal rein
to planning and perionning our audit of the ?nancial statements. we considered the 
interns! control otter ?naneial reporting (?internal oontrot") to determine the audit procedures

?nancial statements, but not for the nth-pose oi amassing an opinion on the e??ectit'eness oi the
internal controL Aocordingij'. we do not express an opinion on the e?'ectiteness of the
internal oantroL

A de?ciency or tom-not cannot exists who: the design or operation of a control does not allow
management or employees. in the nonoal course ot'perfonning their assigned Emotions, to
prevent. or detect and correct, misstatements on tinter basis. A material weakness is a
de?ciency. or a combination of de?ciencies, in internal control such that there is a reasonable
possibility that a material miastatement of the ?nancial statements will not he
prevented. or detected end corrected on timely basis A agnth dyinth is de?ciency.
or a combination of de?ciencies, in internal control that is 1 set-ere than a material weakness.
yet important enough to merit attention hythose charged with governance.

Oln'consideration oi'intemal control was fortite ?rstparagraph
oithis section end was not designed to identify all de?cienciu in internal control that mighthe
material or signi?cant de?ciencies. Given these limitations, dining our audit. we did
not identin an}r de?ciencies in internal control that we consider to he terial weaknesses.
However. material weaknesses may eaist that have not been identi?edl-t?lttu I We NIH-J 'n .

85 Page

Bond of Directors

Den-cit Land Bull: Authority
October 25. 2018

Page Two

REPORT ON DTEFDTAL (031?.01. OVER
IUANCL-IL REPORTING AND 03' OTHER MATTERS

03113-111)

Cong?nnee and Other Matters

As pm of obtaining reasonable assurance about whelher the DLBA's ?nancial statements are
?ee ?out mateml misstatement. we performed tests of Its comphanee with main ptovistons of
km. regulah'm. con?icts. and grant ogreenten?, noncompliance with which wild here a
dheet Ind mtet'ill effect on. the determination of ?nancial statement mounts. However.
ptoviding an opinion on compliance with those provision: was not on objective ofotn audit mi
accor?inght. we do not express such In opinion The remit: of our tests dimlosed no instances
of nonemhmce or other outta: ?ll! an.- ?quoted to he teponednnder Government Audion;
Standards.

BMW

The put-pate of this report I5 solely; to detmbe the scope of out team; of Internal control and

eand 
LheDIBA'smternIlconuol oron compliance. Thisrqtonis minlegnlputofanmdit
pufonned in accordance with Government Audng Standards in cmsicieting the 
inn-roll toml Ind :nmplinnce. Mootdingly, this commutation is not stumble fut other

purpose.
6% )4quwa

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
Detroit. Michigan

-34-

 

86 Page

EXHIBIT 

PROPERTY TRANSFERS
FROM THE CITY TO THE DETROIT LAND BANK

The transfer of the following properties from the City to the Detroit Land Bank are hereby

 

 

authorized:
Address Parcel ID Legal Description
225 EDSEL FORD 01001668. EDSEL FORD 23 ALEXANDER MCGRAWS L4 P92 PLATS,

UB9 50 141.11

 

216 BETHUNE

01002112001

BETHUNE 15.92 FT 287 WM 
HAMLIN SJ BROWNS L8 P72 PLATS, 1/103 45.92 
78A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

251 CHANDLER 01002279. CHANDLER 83 CHANDLER AVE SUB L13, P96, PLATS, 
1/106 50 125

261 CHANDLER 01002280. CHANDLER 82 CHANDLER AVE SUB L13, P96, PLATS, 
1/106 50 125

51 MELBOURNE 01002460001 MELBOURNE 2 MC LAUGHLIN BROS L17 P73 PLATS, 
1/109 40 112.18A

89 MELBOURNE 01002464. MELBOURNE 7 MC LAUGHLIN BROS L17 P73 PLATS, 
1/109 40 112.58A

331 MELBOURNE 01002484. MELBOURNE 27 MC LAUGHLIN BROS L17 P73 PLATS, 
1/109 31.6 114.5A

254 EUCLID 01002517. EUCLID 28 LOWES L8 P26 PLATS, 1/110 30 120

82 EUCLID 01002530. EUCLID 14 LOWES L8 P26 PLATS, 1/110 30 120

87 EUCLID 01002543. EUCLID 144 LOWES L8 P26 PLATS, 1/110 30 120

314 PHILADELPHIA 01002586. 5 PHILADELPHIA 81 BELA HUBBARDS L21 P7 PLATS, 
1/111 50 125

112 PHILADELPHIA 01002598. 5 PHILADELPHIA 93 BELA HUBBARD L21 P7 PLATS, 
1/111 61.80 125

320 HAGUE 01002643. 5 HAGUE 41.49 FT OF 51.49 FT 32 HAIGHS L13 P29 PLATS,
1/112 41.49 125

300 HAGUE 01002646. 5 HAGUE 21 FT 31 20 FT 30 HAIGHS L13 P29 PLATS, 
1/112 41 125

240 HAGUE 01002652. 5 HAGUE 50 FT 28 HAIGHS L13 P29 PLATS, 1/112 50
125

301 ALGER 01002741. ALGER 10 FT 20 30 FT 21 105 MCLAUGHLINS L16 P77
PLATS, 1/115 40 113

94 LEICESTER CT 01003000. 5 LEICESTER CT 11 10 FT 10 BLK WAGNERS
L11 P80 PLATS, 1/120 40 117

201 HARMON 01003398. HARMON 20 FT 191 HUNT 8L LEGGETTS L10 P40 PLATS, 
1:128 20 120

319 HARMON 01003418. HARMON 211 HUNT L10 P40 PLATS, 
1/128 30 120

151 WOODLAND 01003645. WOODLAND 20 WOODLAND L13 P85 PLATS, 1/130

 

 

 

40 120

 

 

Exhibit Page 1 of67

 

Add ress

Parcel ID

Legal Description

 

2989 BEAUBIEN

01003747-53

BEAUBIEN 3-2 MILLER 8L WILCOX L1 P86 PLATS, 1/44
61.50 96

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9540 WOODWARD 01004354. WOODWARD 100 FT 140 MC LAUGHLIN OWENS L18

AVENUE P28 PLATS 1/125 188.85 100

9720 WOODWARD 01004355. WOODWARD 100 FT 71 MC LAUGHLIN 8: OWENS L18

AVENUE P28 PLATS, 1/125 188.85 100 

140 LONGWOOD 01004895. 5 LONGWOOD 285 NORTH WOODWARD SUB L26 P70
PLATS, 1/163 30 103

92 LONGWOOD 01004903. 5 LONGWOOD PL 277 NORTH WOODWARD L26 P70 PLATS,
1/163 30 103

41 LOUISIANA 01005010. LOUISIANA 355 NORTH WOODWARD L26 P70 PLATS, 
1/163 30 103

165 LOUISIANA 01005030. LOUISIANA 376 WOODWARD L26 P70 PLATS, 
1/163 30 103

175 LOUISIANA 01005032. LOUISIANA 136 26 FT 135 FINN COLLINS HIGH RIDGE

7 L33 P68 PLATS, 1/191 56 103 

201 LOUISIANA 01005035. LOUISIANA 27.74 FT 133 FINN COLLINS HIGH RIDGE L33
P68 PLATS, 1f191 27.74 IRREG

301 NEVADA 01005382. NEVADA 156 15 FT 157 HUGO STENDERS L26 P53
PLATS, 1f167 45 125

7 GREENDALE 01005943. GREENDALE 141 GRIX HOME PARK L29 P52 PLATS, 
1/170 49.40 102.65

56 BRENTWOOD 01006910. BRENTWOOD 205 JAMES OFLAHERTYS LOG CABIN L27
P13 PLATS, 1/174 40 111

48 BRENTWOOD 01006911. BRENTWOOD 206 JAMES OFLAHERTYS LOG CABIN L27
P13 PLATS, 1/174 40 111

40 BRENTWOOD 01006912. BRENTWOOD 207 JAMES OFLAHERTYS LOG CABIN L27
P13 PLATS, 1/174 40 111

32 BRENTWOOD 01006913. BRENTWOOD 208 JAMES OFLAHERTYS LOG CABIN L27
P13 PLATS, 1/174 40 111

1124 CARMEL 01007258. CARMEL 72 STATE FAIR L28 P26 PLATS, 1/182 40 
115

791 LANTZ 01007459. LANTZ 264 STATE FAIR L28 P26 PLATS, 1/182 34 
102.50

901 FERNHILL 01007616. FERNHILL 423 STATE FAIR L28 P26 PLATS, 1/182 30 
102.50

900 FERNHILL 01007687-8 FERNHILL 509 508 STATE FAIR L28 P26 PLATS, 1/182
60 102.50

411 STATE FAIR 01007867-8 5 STATE FAIR 709;708 STATE FAIR L28 P26 PLATS, 
1/182 65.65 115.40A

744 ADELINE ST 01007891. 5 STATE FAIR 25.95 FT 683 682-688 REAR 667-653 
25.88 FT 652 AND VAC ALLEY LYG OF SAID LOTS STATE FAIR
L28 P26 PLATS, 1/182 479.95 IRREG

17235 CARDONI 01008231-4 CARDONI 61 THRU 58 ST BARBARA L28 P84 PLATS, 

 

 

 

1/162 120 100

 

Exhibit Page 2 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

17139 WANDA 01008613. WANDA 403 ST BARBARA L28 P84 PLATS, 1/162 30 
100

17131 WANDA 01008614. WANDA 402 ST BARBARA L28 P84 PLATS, 1/162 30 
100

17125 WANDA 01008615. WANDA 401 ST BARBARA L28 P84 PLATS, 1/162 30 
100

17126 OMIRA 01008616. OMIRA 546 ST BARBARA L28 P84 PLATS, 1/162 30 
100

17136 OMIRA 01008618. OMIRA 544 ST BARBARA L28 P84 PLATS, 1/162 30 
100

17252 OMIRA 01008637. OMIRA 525 ST BARBARA L28 P84 PLATS, 1/162 30 
100

17501 BRUSH 01008852. BRUSH SCHOOL LOT VAC HIGH ST LYG 5 OF ADJ SCHOOL
LOT LOTS 137-144 VAC ALLEY BET SAID LOTS FINN 
COLLINS HIGH RIDGE L33 P68 PLATS, 1/191 REAR 319?
316 ALSO 10 FT 315 REAR 348-344 VAC ALLEY IN REAR 
VAC ALLEY OF SAID LOTS NORTH WOODWARD SUB L26 P70
PLATS, 1/163 503.77 407.80

17435 BRUSH 01008853-4 BRUSH 149 150 FINN COLLINS HIGH RIDGE L33 P68
PLATS, 1/191 64.21 99.98

17415 BRUSH 01008857. BRUSH 153 FINN COLLINS HIGH RIDGE L33 P68 PLATS, 
1/191 30 99.98

19153 EXETER 01009122. EXETER 182 LINDALE PARK L32 P94 PLATS, 1/177 30

105 

19231 HERSHEY 01009589. HERSHEY 337 15 FT 336 WALKERS L29 P48 PLATS, 
1/178 45 100

18622 WOODWARD 01009771. WOODWARD 95 FT ON LINE BG 86.03 FT ON LINE

AVENUE OF 125.46 FT ON 5 LINE 165.27 FT ON LINE
THEREOF OF THAT PT OF GRIX HOME PARK SUB L29 P53
PLATS LYG ADJ WOODWARD AVE 204 FT WD 
ADJ HILDALE AVE 50 FT WD 95 IRREG 12,506 SQ FT

13 STIMSON 02000717-8 STIMSON 50 FT OF 445.67 FT OF PARK LOT 69 LYG OF
ADJ STIMSON AVE OF LINE OF WOODWARD AVE PLAT
OF PARK LOTS L34 P542 DEEDS, 2/78 50 178.16

70 PALLISTER 02001159. PALLISTER 90 5 FT 91 LEGGETTS SUB L21 P53 PLATS, 
2/48 55 139.28A

83 VIRGINIA PARK 02001211. VIRGINIA PARK 87 1/2 86 THE PEERLESS ADD L18 P38
PLATS, 2/127 75 163

130 GLADSTONE 02001347. GLADSTONE 8 FISHERS SUB L14 P31 PLATS, 2/37 50
IRREG

8327 WOODWARD 02001720. WOODWARD 50 FT OF 5 71.50 FT 1 50 FT 2 THE

AVENUE PEERLESS ADD L18 P38 PLATS, 2/127 158 50

8251 WOODWARD 02001721. WOODWARD 50 FT 91 50 FT OF 70.20 FT 92 THE

AVENUE PEERLESS ADD L18 P38 PLATS, 2/127 158 50

19201 WOODWARD 02002654?9 WOODWARD 24-18 EXC WOODWARD AVE AS WD PALMER

AVENUE WOODS SUB L32 P16 PLATE, 2/140 772.60 IRREG 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit Page 3 of67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

17181 BELDEN 02003604-6 BELDEN 398-394 KEANS SUB L14 P57 PLATS, 2/136
150 100

20001 CANTERBURY 02005563. CANTERBURY HYDE PARK GREENACRES SUB L39 P13
PLATS, 2/149 383.39 IRREG

19701 CANTERBURY 02005564. CANTERBURY PARK GREENACRES SUB L39 P13 PLATS, 
2/149 177.99 IRREG 

520 HENDRIE 03001629. HENDRIEW38 FT OF 114 FT OF55.26 FT 199 BEAUBIEN
FARM L6 P475-8 CITY RECORDS18,16.197, BEAUBIEN FARM L1 P178 PLATS, 
3772 38 171.53

526 HARPER 03001720. 5 HARPER 43.5 FT OF 85.5 OF 161.6 OF 199 BEAUBIEN

FARM L6 P475-8 CITY RECORDS, 3/3 43.5 161.27A

580 CHANDLER 03001980. CHANDLER 40 8: VAC CLAY AVE CHANDLER AVE L13 P96
PLATS, 3/93 50 145.28A

662 ARDEN PARK 03002655. ARDEN PARK BLVD 50 FT 106 MCLAUGHLIN OWENS L18
P28 PLATS, 3/118 50 IRREG

657 ARDEN PARK 03002677. ARDEN PARK BLVD 50 FT 105 MCLAUGHLIN 8: OWENS L18
P28 PLATS, 3/118 50 IRREG

641 ROSEDALE CT 03002878. ROSEDALE CT 10 FT 83 84 HUNT L10 P40
PLATS, 3/122 40 120

553 WOODLAND 03002961. WOODLAND 51 WOODLAND L13 P85 PLATS, 3/124

40 120

 

10335 OAKLAND

03002982002

OAKLAND 26.50 FT 249?250 AND 23 FT VAC CANIFF
AVE ADJ HUNT 8L SUB L10 P40 PLATS, 3/122
49.50 60.13

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

945 ALEXANDRINE 04000800. ALEXANDRINE 10 FARM SUB L1 P269 PLATS, 
4/37 40 146

690 BETHUNE 04001665. BETHUNE 40 FT 31 LOTHROP 8L DUFFIELDS SUB L17 P22
PLATS, 4/72 40 125

708 PALLISTER 04001736. PALLISTER 40 FT OF 69 EXC 5.50 FT LEGGETS SUB L21
P53 PLATS, 4/74 40 141.37A

801 VIRGINIA PARK 04001880-3 VIRGINIA PARK 62 THRU 59 PEERLESS ADD NO 3 L18 P40
PLATS, 4,180 200 163

699 GLADSTONE 04002231. 5 GLADSTONE 1/2 74 12.50 FT 73 MCLAUGHLIN
BROTHERS SUB L14 P21 PLATS, 4/85 37.50 117.5

795 LONGFELLOW 04002635. 5 LONGFELLOW VOIGT PARK VOIGT PARK SUB L22 P94 PLATS,
4/90 820 361

950 CT 04002767. COURT 151 VOIGT PARK SUB L22 P94 PLATS, 
4/90 35 117

720 BURLINGAME 04003074001 BURLINGAME 20FT 14 BURLINGAME AVE SUB L24 P25

PLATS, 4/93 20 123

5821 SECOND 04003211. SECOND 14 BLK 17 CASS FARM CO LTD SUB L19 P35
4758 44 140

3971 THIRD 04003540. THIRD 2 BLK 5 CRANE FARM SUB L60 P58 DEEDS, 

 

 

4/108 40 100

 

Exhibit Page 4 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

915 MARSTON 05002635. MARSTON AVE 3 KIEFERS SUB L9 P97 PLATS, 5/142 
PLAT INTO PARK LOTS 1/4
SECS 4,5,44,45,55-58 A L34 P332 DEEDS, 5/102 30
108.04A

914 MT VERNON 05002665. 5 MT VERNON AVE 9 MACKLEMS SUB L15 P73 PLATS, 
5/104 30 125

915 MT VERNON 05002668. MT VERNON AVE 14 MACKLEMS SUB L15 P73 PLATS, 
5/104 30 116.13

10243 RUSSELL 05003128. RUSSELL ST 14 KENWOODS SUB L15 P45 PLATS, 
5/124 30 115

9747 CARDONI 05003974. CARDONI AVE 103 LICHTENBERGS SUB L31 P53 PLATS, 
5/140 30 100 

9657 CARDONI 05003987-8 CARDONI 116 117LICHTENBERGS SUB L31 P53 PLATS, 
5/140 60 100

9641 CARDONI 05003990. CARDONI AVE 119 LICHTENBERGS SUB L31 P53 PLATS, 
5/140 30 100

7392 CAMERON 05004199. CAMERON TTAT L17 P54 PLATS, 
7 7 

7398 CAMERON 05004200. CAMERON TTAT L17 P54 PLATS, 
5/98 30 125

8740 CAMERON 05004261. CAMERON 30 MOELLER CARDONIS SUB L8 P74 PLATS, 
5/114 30 124.09

9160 CAMERON 05004293. CAMERON 216 MORSES SUB L15 P81 PLATS, 
5/135 30 100

9166 CAMERON 05004294. CAMERON 215 MOTT MORSES SUB L15 P81 PLATS, 
5/135 30 100

9172 CAMERON 05004295. CAMERON 214 MOTT MORSES SUB L15 P81 PLATS, 
5/135 30 100

9070 DELMAR 05005012. DELMAR 37 REED SUB L27 P18 PLATS, 5/116 30 100

9074 DELMAR 05005013. DELMAR 36 REED SUB L27 P18 PLATS, 5/116 30 100

9084 DELMAR 05005014. DELMAR 35 REED SUB L27 P18 PLATS, 5/116 30 100

9100 DELMAR 05005015. DELMAR 32 REED SUB L27 P18 PLATS, 5/116 30 100

9106 DELMAR 05005016. DELMAR 31 REED SUB L27 P18 PLATS, 5/116 30 100

9124 DELMAR 05005019. DELMAR 28 REED SUB L27 P18 PLATS, 5/116 30 100

9085 DELMAR 05005180. DELMAR 55 REED SUB L27 P18 PLATS, 5/116 30 
108.33A

9077 DELMAR 05005181. DELMAR 54 REED SUB L27 P18 PLATS, 5/116 30 
108.15

1380 PINE 06000676. PINE 22 PLAT OF JOHN MC KEOWNS SUB L5 P5 PLATS, 
6/40 30 115

1385 SPRUCE 06000702. 5 SPRUCE 5 PLAT OF JOHN MC KEOWNS SUB L5 P5 PLATS, 

6/40 30 115

 

 

 

 

1348 SELDEN

 

06001000-36

 

SELDEN HODGES BROS
SUB L1 P308 PLATS, 6/53 32 65

 

 

Exhibit Page 5 0f67

 

Add ress

Parcel ID

Legal Description

 

1440 HANCOCK

O6001207.001

HANCOCK 7.13 FT OF 50.03 FT OF 5 21.67 FT 212 9.34
FT OF 59.37 FT OF 26.08 FT OF 212 8.00 FT OF 67.37
FT OF 33.32 FT OF 212 9.83 FT OF 77.20 FT ON LINE
BG 9.98 FT OF 77.35 FT ON LINE 212 HODGES BROS
SUB L1 P308 PLATS, 6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1189 EUCLID 06001838. EUCLID 33 BESSENGER MOORES EUCLID AVE SUB L25
P17 PLATS, 6/111 30 112

1417 BLAINE 06002132. BLAINE 30 BESSENGER 8: MOORES BLAINE AVE SUB L24 P65
PLATS, 6/2 30 100

1429 BLAINE 06002134. 5 BLAINE 32 BESSENGER 8: MOORES BLAINE AVE SUB L24 P65
PLATS, 6/2 30 100

1523 BLAINE 06002149. BLAINE 47 BESSENGER MOORES BLAINE AVE SUB L24 P65
PLATS, 672 30 100

1446 HAZELWOOD 06002173. HAZELWOOD 21 BESSENGER MOORES SUB L22 P85
PLATS, 6/4 30 127

1440 HAZELWOOD 06002174. HAZELWOOD 22 BESSENGER MOORES SUB L22 P85
PLATS, 6/4 30 127

1436 HAZELWOOD 06002175. HAZELWOOD 23 BESSENGER MOORES SUB L22 P85
PLATS, 6/4 30 127

1414 HAZELWOOD 06002176. HAZELWOOD 24-25-26-27-28 BESSENGER MOORES SUB
L22 P85 PLATS, 6/4 144.22 IRREG 

1624 CALVERT 06002768-71 CALVERT 12 THRU 15 AND 23 FT OF VAC CANIFF IN REAR

SULLIVAN-CAMPBELL SUB L31 P60 PLATS, 6/177 140 
135

 

BURLINGAME 25 FT 31 .IUDSON BRADWAYS 

 

 

 

1747 BURLINGAME 06003069.
AVE SUB NO 2 L29 P61 PLATS, 6/173 65.08 25

1754 BURLINGAME 06003070. BURLINGAME 25 FT 30 .IUDSON BRADWAYS BURLINGAME
AVE SUB NO 2 L29 P61 PLATS, 6/173 65.56 25

8277 JOHN LODGE 06004362. JOHN LODGE PARK PURPOSE VIRGINIA PARK SUB L28 P80
PLATS, 6/125 40 100

2510 BROOKLYN 06004989. BROOKLYN PT 17 BG 67 FT ON LINE 14.79 FT ON 

LINE BLK 13 PLAT OF PT 24 L30 P447 DEEDS, 6/23
TRIANG PT 11 BG 14.79 FT ON LINE 17 FT ON LINE
BLK 13 SUB OF THE LABROSSE FARM L14 P414-16 DEEDS, 
6/27 67 IRREG

 

2510 BROOKLYN

06004989001

BROOKLYN PT 17 BG 67 FT ON LINE 14.79 FT ON 
LINE BLK 13 PLAT OF PT 24 L30 P447 DEEDS, 6/23
TRIANG PT 11 BG 14.79 FT ON LINE 17 FT ON LINE
BLK 13 SUB OF THE LABROSSE FARM L14 P414-16 DEEDS, 
6/27 67 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

3700 LINCOLN 06005428. LINCOLN 65 66 25 FT OF 67 HODGES BROS SUB L1 P308
PLAYS, 6/53 125 120
3906 LINCOLN 06005430. LINCOLN I-BDGES BROS
SUB L1 P308 PLATS, 6/53 56 88
3916 LINCOLN 06005431. LINCOLN HODGES BROS

 

 

SUB L1 P308 PLATS, 6/53 44 IRREG

 

Exhibit Page 6 of 67

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
5770 LINCOLN 06005561. LINCOLN 156 WOODBRIDGES SUB L9 P93 PLATS, 
6/147 30 96.55A
3605 LINCOLN 06005790. LINCOLN 56 8 FT OF VAC BRAINARD ST HODGES BROS

SUB L1 P308 PLATS, 6/53 58 124

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9012 BYRON 06005798002 BYRON 19.75 FT OF 60.65 FT 48 BLACKS ADD L14 P78
PLATS, 6/118 19.75 50
9020 BYRON 06005798.004L BYRON 21.10 FT 48 BLACKS ADD L14 P78 PLATS, 
3/118 21.10x50 
4808 TRUMBULL 06005973. TRUMBULL 16.68 FT OF 16.37 FT OF 212 ALSO 2 FT
OF 18.68 FT OF 37.21 FT OF 212HODGES BROS SUB L1
P308 PLATS, 6/53 18.68 IRREG
4822 TRUMBULL 06005975. TRUMBULL 6 FT 213 5 38.26 FT 214 HODGE BROS SUB L1
P308 PLATS, 6/53 44.26 124
4237 DEQUINDRE 07001834. DEQUINDRE 58 STOEPELS SUB L8 P77 PLATS, 7/46

28 111.84

 

4170 RIOPELLE

07001993-2033

RIOPELLE 101 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89
30 124.14

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4176 RIOPELLE 07002034. RIOPELLE 104 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89
30 124.14

4190 RIOPELLE 07002036. RIOPELLE 108 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89
30 124.14

4200 RIOPELLE 07002037. RIOPELLE 109 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89
30 124.14

4208 RIOPELLE 07002038. RIOPELLE 112 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89
30 124.14

4214 RIOPELLE 07002039. RIOPELLE 113 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89
30 124.14

4220 RIOPELLE 07002040. RIOPELLE 116 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89
I 30 124.14

4226 RIOPELLE 07002041. RIOPELLE 117 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89

30 124.14

 

4232 RIOPELLE

07002042-74

RIOPELLE 120 121 124 81 125 128 8: 129 RIOPELLES SUB
L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89 187 124.14

 

4183 RIOPELLE

07002195.

RIOPELLE 106 RIOPELLES SUB L1 P314 PLATS, 7/89
30 124.14

 

1569 TEMPLE

08000703.002L

TEMPLE 24.40 FT 17 BLK 94 WILLIAM WOODBRIDGES
SUB L4 P82 PLATS, 8/34 24.40 115

 

20 FT 99 MC KEOWNS SUB L3 P50 PLATS, 

 

 

1530 08000755.
8/43 20 115

1571 SYCAMORE 08000855. SYCAMORE 34 FT 50 MCKEOWNS SUB L3 P50 PLATS,
WCR 8/43 34 115

1577 SYCAMORE 08000856. SYCAMORE 49 MCKEOWNS SUB L3 P50 PLATS, WCR 8/43 35

115

 

2058 

 

08000920001

 

60.30 FT OF 24.7 FT 224 59.10 FT OF 6.3
FT 224 WOODRUFFS SUB L2 P32 PLATS, WCR 8/50 60.3 IRREG

 

Exhibit Page 7 of67

 

 

Address

Parcel ID

Legal Description

 

2046 

08000920002

51.70 FT OF 24.7 FT 224 52.90 FT OF 6.3 FT
224 WOODRUFFS SUB L2 P32 PLATS, WCR 8/50 51.7 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1580 08000932. 29 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS, 
8/51 38 114

1572 08000933. 28 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS, 
8/51 40 114

1564 08000934. 27 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS, 
8/51 40 114

08000935. 26 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS, 
8/51 40 114

1548 08000936. 25 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS, 
8/51 40 114

1540 08000937. 24 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS, 
8/51 40 114

1530 08000938. 23 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS, 
8/51 38 114

1539 BRAINARD 08000939. 5 BRAINARD 16 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS,
8/51 40 114

1563 BRAINARD 08000941. BRAINARD 14-13 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310
PLATS, 8/51 80 114

1571 BRAINARD 08000942. BRAINARD 12 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS,
8/51 40 114

1579 BRAINARD 08000943. 5 BRAINARD 11 SUB OF WOODBRIDGE FARM L1 P310 PLATS,
8/51 38 114

1934 SELDEN 08001051. SELDEN 83 ALBERT CRANES SEC L1 P11 PLATS, 8/49
30 95

1759 WILLIS 08001196. WILLIS 1 TAFTS SUB L3 P13 PLATS, 8/63 30 IRREG

1944 LYSANDER 08001260. LYSANDER LAFERTY FARM

L1 P230 PLATS, 8/58 30 65

 

1732 FOREST

08001319-27

FOREST 168 WM WESSONS SUB L10 P56 PLATS, 
8/64 40 168.30

 

2010 WARREN

08001378.005L

WARREN 169 ASSESSORS DETROIT PLAT N0 11 L72 P88
PLATS, 8/191 22 57.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1934 ANTOINETTE 08001513. ANTOINETTE 56 SIBLEY PLACE SUB L11 P66 PLATS, 
8/74 30 120 

1928 ANTOINETTE 08001514. ANTOINETTE 55 SIBLEY PLACE SUB L11 P66 PLATs, 
8/74 30 120

1562 HOLDEN 08001565. HOLDEN 66 LOTHROP DUFFIELD LAND co LTDS SUB L23
P38 PLATS, 8/77 30 110

1524 FERRY PARK 08001600. FERRY PARK 51 LOTHROP DUFFIELD LAND co LTDS SUB
L23 P38 PLATS, 8/77 30 110

1516 FERRY PARK 08001601. FERRY PARK 50 LOTHROP DUFFIELD LAND co LTDS SUB
L23 P38 PLATs, 8/77 30 110

1510 FERRY PARK 08001602. FERRY PARK 49 LOTHROP DUFFIELD LAND co LTDS SUB

L23 P38 PLATS, 8/77 30 110

 

Exhibit Page 8 of67

 

 

Address

Parcel ID

LOgal Description

 

2687 GRAND BLVD

08001695.

GRAND BLVD 30 FT 58 20 FT 67 LOTHROP DU FFIELD
BOULEVARD PARK SUB L28 P1 PLATS, 8/83 50 150

 

1551 SEWARD

08001858-908

SEWARD 8.15 FT OF 22 FT ON LINE 36 6.LINE OF 19 AND 10 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ BLK
15 BECKS SUB L4 P59 PLATS, 8/85 8.15 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2058 VIRGINIA PARK 08002012. VIRGINIA PK 10 FT OF 188 IVICGREGORS SUB L30 P39
PLATS, WCR 8/116 10 131.33A
1734 VIRGINIA PARK 08002030. VIRGINIA PK 8 VIRGINIA PK RE-SUB L31 P77 PLATS, 
8/121 75 VIRGINIA PARK SUB L28 P80 PLATS, 8/112
52.85 IRREG
1717 EUCLID 08002055. 5 EUCLID 5 FT 47 48 THE HOWELL-MACK EUCLID AVE SUB
L29 P22 PLATS, 8/113 35 107
1723 EUCLID 080020557 5 EUCLID 49 50 20 FT 0F 51THE HOWELL-MACK EUCLID
AVE SUB L29 P22 PLATS WCR 8/113 80 107
2030 BLAINE 08002357. BLAINE 287 AUSTINS SUB L30 P45 PLATS, 8/129 35 
127.58A
1509 CLAIRIVIOUNT 08002551. 5 CLAIRIVIOUNT 52 SUB L30 P51 PLATS, 8/117
30 115
1705 CLAIRMOUNT 08002577. CLAIRIVIOUNT 58 SUB L30 P61 PLATS, 8/117
30 115
1711 CLAIRMOUNT 08002678. 5 CLAIRIVIOUNT 59 STOTTS SUB L30 P51 PLATS, 8/117
30 115
1715 CLAIRMOU NT 08002579. 5 CLAIRMOUNT 70 STOTTS SUB L30 P51 PLATS, 8/117
30 115
1723 CLAIRMOU NT 08002580. 5 CLAIRMOUNT 71 SUB L30 P61 PLATS, 8/117
30 115
1935 ATKINSON 08002771. 5 ATKINSON 551 THRU 555 20 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ JOY
FARM SUB L32 P40 PLATS, WCR 8/128 0.68361 ACRES
1511 LONGFELLOW 08002912. LONGFELLOW 205 BOSTON BLVD SUB L29 P23 PLATS, 
8/130 40 133.5
2332 TUXEDO 08003475. TUXEDO 129.13 FT ON LINE BG 129.20 FT ON LINE
LYG ADI TUXEDO AVE
AND ADJ OAKMANS 12TH TUXEDO SUB 50 
7 129.17A
2309 FORD 08004777. 5 FORD 412 OAKMANS 12TH ST SUB L34 P90 PLATS, 
8/145 35 100
2231 LABELLE 08004844. 5 LABELLE 510 OAKMANS 12TH ST SUB L34 P90 PLATS, 
8/145 35 100
1932 KENDALL 08004974. KENDALL 701 OAKMANS 12TH ST SUB L34 P90 PLATS, 
8/145 35 101.82A
1737 PURITAN 08005171. 5 PURITAN 5 73.55 FT ON LINE BG 5 80.45 FT ON LINE OF
3 FT OF 1 EASONS SUB L28 P2 PLATS, 8/155 3 IRREG
3043 TRUMBULL 08005924. TRUMBULL 95 FT 94 MC KEOWNS SUB L3 P50 PLATS, 
8/43 49 95
3037 TRUMBULL 08005925. TRUMBULL 95 MC KEOWNS SUB L3 P50 PLATS, 8/43

 

 

50 130

 

Exhibit Page 9 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

3025 TRUMBU LL 08005926. TRUMBU LL 96 MC KEOWNS SUB L3 P50 PLATS, 8/43
50 130

3740 08005980. COMMONWEALTH 24 BLK 1 AVERY 81 SUB L4 P38

COMMONWEALTH PLATS, 8/62 50 130

6123 08006139. COMMONWEALTH 43 81 A STIMSONS SUB L10 P31

COMMONWEALTH PLATS, 8/75 30 136

6101 08006142. COMMONWEALTH 10281101 WOODBRIDGES SUB L11

COMMONWEALTH P7 PLATS, 8/90 59.59 IRREG

5625 08006170. COMMONWEALTH 16 WOODBRIDGE SUB L9 P93 PLATS, 

COMMONWEALTH 8/91 3,098 SQ FT

5234 HECLA 08006278-9 HECLA 38 SUB L7 P60 PLATS, 8/95
60 100

5250 HECLA 08006282. HECLA AVE 34 PETREQUINS SUB L7 P60 PLATS, 8/95
30 100

5256 HECLA 08006283. HECLA AVE 33 PETREQUINS SUB L7 P60 PLATS, 8/95
30 100

5280 HECLA 08006287. HECLA AVE 29&28 PETREQUINS SUB L7 P60 PLATS, 
8/95 60 100

5233 HECLA 08006409-11 HECLA 7 THRU SUB L7 P60 PLATS, 
8/95 90 86.62

3510 COCHRANE 08006498. COCHRANE 457 458 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS,
8/29 62 100

3518 COCHRANE 08006499. COCHRANE 459 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS, 
8/29 31 100

3515 COCHRANE 08006526. COCHRANE 470 1/2 471 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5

PLATS, 8/29 46.50 100

 

3505 COCHRANE

08006527001

COCHRANE 15.5 FT OF 471 EXC 29.70.50 FT OF 472 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5
PLATS, 8/29 23 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

08006527.002L COCHRANE 23.5 FT 472 EXC 29.5 FT PLAT OF LOGNON

FARM L2 P5 PLATS, 8/29 23.5 70.5

2943 COCHRANE 08006559. COCHRANE 320 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS, 
8/29 31 100

2833 COCHRANE 08006568. COCHRANE 6 FT 273 274 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM SUB L2
P5 PLATS, 8/29 37 100

3122 HARRISON 08006706. HARRISON 372 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS, 
8/29 31 100

3130 HARRISON 08006707. HARRISON 371 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS, 
8/29 31 100

3140 HARRISON 08006708. HARRISON 370 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS, 
8/29 31 100

3302 HARRISON 08006710. HARRISON 409 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS, 
8/29 31 100

3500 HARRISON 08006726. HARRISON 1/2 473 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS,



 

Exhibit Page 10 of67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

3510 HARRISON 08006727. HARRISON 474 PLAT OF LOGNON FARM L2 P5 PLATS, 
8/29 31 100

6196 AVERY 08007099. AVERY 75 A STIMSONS SUB L10 P31 PLATS, 
8/75 30 136

6227 AVERY 08007111. AVERY 6 BLK HAM LIN FORDYCES SUB L16 P10 PLATS,
8/76 30 123.74A

4509 AVERY 08007205. AVERY WESSONS SUB L10
P56 PLATS, 8/64 36 IRREG

2628 ROSA PARKS 08007455. TWELFTH 21 FT OF 3415.50 FT OF

BLVD 100 FT 27 14.PLAT OF
CABACIER FARM OF CHICAGO RD L45 P180 DEEDS, 
8/28 51 IRREG

2728 ROSA PARKS 08007462. TWELFTH 50 FT 30 BLK 5 PLAT OF CABACIER FARM OF

BLVD CHICAGO RD L1 P154 PLATS, 8/35 50 195

2814 ROSA PARKS 08007466. TWELFTH 6 FT 30 BLK 5 PLAT OF CABACIER FARM OF

BLVD

CHICAGO RD L1 P154 PLATS, 8/35 5 38 FT 1 MILLERS
SUB L9 P99 PLATS, 8/37 44 195

 

3604 ROSA PARKS
BLVD

08007506-13

ROSA PARKS 65.36 FT OF LOTS 158 THRU 152ALBERT
CRANES SEC 0F THOMPSON FARM L1 P11 PLATS, 8/49
210 65.36

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4246 ROSA PARKS 08007545. TWELFTH 60 FT 15 TAFTS SUB L3 P13 PLATS, 8/63

BLVD 32.5 60

3725 ROSA PARKS 08008150. TWELFTH 128 ALBERT CRANES SEC L1 P11 PLATS, 

I BLVD 8/49 30 95 

2995 ROSA PARKS 08008195. TWELFTH 48 EXC 13.50 FT OF 8 FT TAKEN FOR ALLEY

BLVD OPENING SUB OF PT OF BLK4 CABACIER FARM L1 P244
PLATS, 8/48 50 IRREG

2827 ROSA PARKS 08008208. TWELFTH 3 WM SUB L9 P98 PLATS, 8/38 30

BLVD 96

2823 ROSA PARKS 08008209. TWELFTH 4 WM PRATTS SUB L9 P98 PLATS, 8/38 30

BLVD 96

2954 VERMONT 08008376. VERMONT 31 FT OF 317.TEMPLE PLAT OF 228 L1 P134 PLATS, 8/6
31 90

5016 VERMONT 08008427. VERMONT LAFFERTY
FARM L1 P230 PLATS, 8/58 30 130

5022 VERMONT 08008428. VERMONT LAFFERTY
FARM L1 P230 PLATS, 8/58 30 130

5170 VERMONT 08008439-40 VERMONT 125 LAFFERTY FARM L1
P230 PLATS, 8/58 125 130

5716 VERMONT 08008451. VERMONT 73 JAMES MC MILLANS EDENSOR SUB L19 P96
PLATS, 8/102 30 124

5189 VERMONT 08008550. VERMONT BLKS LAFFERTY FARM L1 P281 PLATS, 8/104 44 85

2777 VERMONT 08008610. VERMONT 140 LARNEDS SUB L60 P2 DEEDS, 8/27 40

 

100

 

 

Exhibit Page II of67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

2700 WABASH 08008752. WABASH 103 EXC 30 FT LARNEDS SUB L60 P2 DEEDS, 
8/27 40 72.06

2710 WABASH 08008753. WABASH 110 EXC 30 FT LARNEDS SUB L60 P2 DEEDS, 
8/27 40 72.06

2850 WABASH 08008764. WABASH 26 FT 143 EXC 30 FT LARNEDS SUB L60 P2
DEEDS, 8/27 26 72.06

3920 WABASH 08008833. WABASH 106 WOODRUFFS SUB L2 P32 PLATS, WCR 8/50 31
112

6190 WABASH 08008955. WABASH 129 CORLISS ANDRUS BLVD PK SUB L23 P57
PLATS, 8/78 32 114

15739 WABASH 08009046. WABASH 75 PURITAN SUB L31 P89 PLATS, WCR 8/164 30 
100

7429 HANOVER 08009200. HANOVER 77.90 FT 20 OSBORN MCCALLUMS SUB L10

P51 PLATS, 8/80 30 77.90

 

1893 LARNED

09000200-50

LARNED 60 FT 7 10 27.5 FT 15 18&23 68 FT 25&AND EXC RELOCATED ST AUBIN
SUB OF LOT 4 WITHERELL FARM L1 P19 PLATS, 9/7
7,894 SQ FT

 

?2101 LARNED

09000300-40

LARNED A ELMWOOD PARK URB REN PLAT #2 L92 P77-82
PLATS, 9/212 149,064 SQ FT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2138 WATSON 09001500. WATSON 60 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 
9/49 30 77

2134 WATSON 09001501. WATSON 59 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 
9/49 30 77

2151 WATSON 09001509. WATSON 63 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 
9/49 30 90

2237 WATSON 09001519. WATSON 1.5 FT 1 BLK 46 PLAT OF PT OF PC 91 L4 P41
PLATS, 9/JAMES CAMPAU
FARM L2 P18 PLATS, 9/1 29.50 90

2144 ERSKINE 09001546. ERSKINE 77 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 
9/49 30 90

2145 ERSKINE 09001568. ERSKINE 80 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 
9/49 30 82

2151 ERSKINE 09001569. ERSKINE 27.50 FT 79 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74
PLATS, 9/49 27.50 82 

2237 ERSKINE 09001577. ERSKINE 1 BLK 47 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L4 P41 PLATS, 
9/55 44.25 82

2241 ERSKINE 09001578-9 ERSKINE JAMES CAMPAU FARM L2
P18 PLATS, 9/1 56 82

2251 ERSKINE 09001580. ERSKINE JAMES CAMPAU FARM L2
P18 PLATS, 9/1 28 82

2224 PIERCE 09001597. PIERCE 23.25 FT 7 BLK 47 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L4 P41 PLATS,
9/55 23.25 82

2144 PIERCE 09001606. PIERCE 93 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 

9/49 30 82

 

Exhibit Page 12 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

2145 PIERCE 09001628. PIERCE 96 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 
9/49 30 90

2250 SCOTT 09001653. SCOTT JAMES CAMPAU FARM L2
P18 PLATS, 9/1 28 90

2224 SCOTT 09001657. 5 SCOTT 8 BLK 50 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L4 P41 PLATS, 9/55
44.25 90

2152 SCOTT 09001664001 SCOTT 35 FT OF 4 BLK 49 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L4 P41 PLATS,

I 

2126 SCOTT 09001668. 5 SCOTT 106 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 
9/49 30 90

2141 SCOTT 09001688. SCOTT 112 PLAT OF ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 
9/49 30 100

2164 HALE 09001724. 5 HALE PLAT OF PT 0F PC 91 L4
P41 PLATS, 9/55 30 100

2281 HALE 09001762. HALE 9 BLK 31 SUB OF PT OFJAMES CAMPAU FARM L2 P18

7 PLATS. 9/1 28 100

2239 MACK 09001811. MACK JAMES CAMPAU FARM L2
P18 PLATS. 9X1 28 100

2172 STJOSEPH 09001836. STJOSEPH PLAT OF PT PC 91 L4
P41 FLATS, 9/55 30 100

2242 ILLINOIS 09001904. 5 ILLINOIS CAMPAU FARM L2
P18 PLATS, 9/1 28 100 

2231 ILLINOIS 09001948-9 ILLINOIS 1 BLK 59 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L4 P41 PLATS, 
9/JAMES CAMPAU FARM L2 P18
PLATS, 9/1 58 100

2156 ALEXANDRINE 09002024. 5 ALEXANDRINE 10 BLK 61 PLAT OF PT PC 91 L4 P41 PLATS, 
955 30 119.60

2120 ALEXANDRINE 09002030. 5 ALEXANDRINE 29 FT OF 122.AUBIN AVE 5 OF ADJ ALEXANDRINE AVE PLAT OF
THE SUB OF CS 14 AND 587 L31 P91 DEEDS, 9/9 2
FT 31 BRIDGE LEWIS SUB L3 P31 PLATS, 9/62 29.33
IRREG

1940 SUPERIOR 09002102. 5 SUPERIOR 17 JEROME DALYS SUB L12 P63 PLATS, 
9f64 28.50 100 

2245 SUPERIOR 09002133. SUPERIOR JAMES CAMPAU FARM L2
P18 PLATS, 9/1 28 95

2000 WILLIS 09002158. 5 WILLIS 22 SUB OF 0 42 ST AUBIN FARM L1 P299 PLATS, 
9/65 30 100

1956 WILLIS 09002165. WILLIS 11 FREUDS SUB L10 P97 PLATS, 9/66 29 100

2272 CAN FIELD 09002210. 5 CANFIELD JAMES CAMPAU FARM
L2 P18 PLATS, 91'1 28 158.5

2264 CANFIELD 09002211. 5 CANFIELD JAMES CAMPAU FARM
L2 P18 PLATS, 9/1 28 158.5

2260 CANFIELD 09002212. CANFIELD JAMES CAMPAU FARM

 

 

L2 P18 PLATS, 9/1 28 158.5

 

Exhibit Page 13 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

2252 CANFIELD 09002213. 5 CANFIELD JAMES CAMPAU FARM
L2 P18 PLATS, 9/1 28 158.5

2246 CANFIELD 09002214. CANFIELD JAMES CAMPAU FARM
L2 P18 PLATS, 9/1 28 158.5

2225 FARNSWORTH 09002610. FARNSWORTH 2 BLK 82 FREUD 81 SUB L8 P9
PLATS, 9/71 30 118.65

2231 FARNSWORTH 09002611. FARNSWORTH 1 BLK 82 FREUD WU SUB L8 P9

PLATS, 9/71 30 118.65 

2237 FARNSWORTH 09002612. FARNSWORTH 64 A SCHULTES SUB L9 P26 PLATS, 
9/84 30 118.65

2273 FARNSWORTH 09002618. FARNSWORTH 58 A SCHULTES SUB L9 P26 PLATS, 

9/84 30 118.65

 

2279 FARNSWORTH

09002619001

FARNSWORTH 57 A SCHULTES SUB L9 P26 PLATS, 
9/84 30 118.65

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2158 PALMER 09002765. 5 PALMER 20 THRU 27 BLK 47 A LACROIXS SUB L11 P39
PLATS, 9/94 16&15 BLK 87 HUCKESTEINS SUB L8 P45
PLATS, 9/90 311 171.53

2212 CANFIELD 09004023. DUBOIS P41 PLATS, 9/55 63.5 52

5200 DUBOIS 09004087. DUBOIS 3 BLK 82 FREUD SUB L8 P9 PLATS, 
9/71 47.3 100

5210 DUBOIS 09004088. DUBOIS 4 BLK 82 FREUD SUB L8 P9 PLATS, 
9/71 30 100

5216 DUBOIS 09004089. DUBOIS 5 BLK 82 FREUD SUB L8 P9 PLATS, 
9/71 30 100

5220 DUBOIS 09004090. DUBOIS 6 BLK 82 FREUD 81 WU SUB L8 P9 PLATS, 
9/71 30 100

5228 DUBOIS 09004091. DUBOIS 7 BLK 82 FREUD WU SUB L8 P9 PLATS, 
9/71 30 100

5236 DUBOIS 09004092. DUBOIS 8 BLK 82 FREUD SUB L8 P9 PLATS, 
9/71 30 100

5240 DUBOIS 09004093. DUBOIS 9 BLK 82 FREUD SUB L8 P9 PLATS, 
9/71 30 100

5246 DUBOIS 09004094. DUBOIS 10 BLK 82 FREUD SUB L8 P9 PLATS, 
9/71 30 100

5512 DUBOIS 09004118. DUBOIS 5 BLK 87 HUCKESTEINS SUB L8 P45 PLATS, 
9/90 30 100 -

4247 DUBOIS 09004350. DUBOIS 9 BLK 68 SUB OF HALF OF 91 L4 P41 PLATS,
30X95

3102 ST AU BIN 09004490. ST AUBIN 68L ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 9/49 33
100

3110 ST AUBIN 09004491. ST AUBIN 69L ST AUBINS SUB L6 P74 PLATS, 9/49 33
100

5726 ST AUBIN 09004657. ST AUBIN 16 WHITES SUB L12 P94 PLATS, 9/95 30 

 

 

 

102

 

Exhibit - Page 14 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

4439 ST AUBIN 09004938. ST AUBIN 2.MORANS SUB L7 P58
PLATS, 9/69 39.53 100

4177 ST AUBIN 09004946. ST AUBIN 18 SUB OF 0 42 ST AUBIN FARM L1 P299
PLATS, 9/65 31 100

3323 DEARING 09006233. DEARING 23 HARRAH SOSNOWSKIS HAMTRAMCK SUB
L31 P25 PLATS, 9/133 30 100

1725 VICTOR 09006611-5 VICTOR 263 THRU 259 168 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54
PLATS, 9f138 129.6 100

527 STATE FAIR 09008054. STATE FAIR GILMORE -

CHAVENELLES SUB L38 P94 PLATS, 9/193 32 100

 

520 WINCHESTER

09008358-62

WINCHESTER 19 THRU 23 57 FT 24 LITTLE GARDEN
FARMS SUB L30 P67 PLATS, 9/181 420.98 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

13875 MORAN 09009084-5 MORAN 12 THRU 15 EXC SIX MILE RD AS OPENED BLK 3
JOHN DWYERS CONANT AVE SUB L15 P47 PLATS, 
9/149 54.67 IRREG

17432 CHAREST 09010113-6 CHAREST 360 THRU 357 420 THRU 418 10 FT 417 AND
VAC ALLEY ADJ SD LOTS DODGE WOODLANDS SUB L32 P81
PLATS, 9f158 120 IRREG 

13941 CHAREST 09010222. CHAREST 293 SUNNYSIDE SUB L18 P2 PLATS, WCR 9/146
30 100

17124 MCDOUGALL 09010479. MC DOUGALL 406 SUNNYSIDE SUB L18 P2 PLATS, WCR
9/146 30 100

17951 MITCHELL 09011021. MITCHELL 20 FT 70 69 DODGE WOODLANDS SUB L32 P81

PLATS, 9/158 50 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18160 ANGLIN 09012007-18 ANGLIN 385 THRU 374 EXC 45 FT OF 29 FT THEREOF
AND 8 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ 419 THRU 426 AND 8 FT OF
VAC ALLEY ADJ LELAND HIGHLANDS SUB L37 P44 PLATS, 
9/159 372.40 IRREG

13826 MAINE 09012390. MAINE 136 SEYMOUR TROESTERS WATER WORKS PARK
SUB L32 P20 PLATS, 9/142 30 100

13830 MAINE 09012391. MAINE 135 SEYMOUR TROESTERS WATER WORKS PARK
SUB L32 P20 FLATS, 9/142 30 100

17930 MAINE 09012502-3 MAINE 252&251 FORDHAM SUB L33 P50 PLATS, WCR 9/156
60 76.78A

13971 MACKAY 09013397. MACKAY 315 RAYNOLDS HARVEYS SUB L15 P5 PLATS, 
9/141 30 100

13549 FLEMING 09014977. FLEMING 195 HEATHVILLE PK L16 P63 PLATS, 9/140
30 100

18116 DEQUINDRE 09016335-7 DEQUINDRE 15 FT 1379 1380 10 FT 1381 CADILLAC

HEIGHTS SUB NO 2 L34 P10 PLATS, 9/162 45 120

 

19360 DEQUINDRE

09016464-78

DEQUINDRE 134 THRU 148 BURTONS SEVEN MILE ROAD
SUB L34 P47 PLATS, 9/182 305 120

 

 

18551 DEQUINDRE

09016841-53 

DEQUINDRE 1299 THRU 1311 CADILLAC L33
P81 PLATS, 97163 265.11 120

 

 

14131 DEQUINDRE

 

09016976.

 

DEQUINDRE 3 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

 

 

Exhibit Page 15 of 67

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
14079 DEQUINDRE 09016985. DEQUINDRE 12 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100
14073 DEQUINDRE 09016986. DEQUINDRE 13 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100
14065 DEQUINDRE 09016988. DEQUINDRE 15 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 

9/138 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20157 MARX 09017378?84 MARX 20 FT 234 235 THRU 241 THOMSON WOODS SUB
L36 P45 PLATS, 9/175 300 120

18191 MARX 09017520-1 MARX 15 FT 1122 22.5 FT 1123 CADILLAC HEIGHTS SUB
L33 P81 PLATS, 9/163 37.5 120 2/23/07 UNCAPPED
'07 ABOR. VEJ

14146 ORLEANS 09017713. ORLEANS 142 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14141 ORLEANS 09018240. ORLEANS 144 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14111 ORLEANS 09018245. ORLEANS 149 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
97138 30 100

14105 ORLEANS 09018246. ORLEANS 150 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14099 ORLEANS 09018247. ORLEANS 151 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14093 ORLEANS 09018248. ORLEANS 152 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

 

14085 ORLEANS

09018249-50

ORLEANS 153 81 154 MC CALLU MS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 60 100

 

 

14067 ORLEANS 09018252. ORLEANS 156 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100 
14063 ORLEANS 09018253. ORLEANS 157 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 

97138 30 100

 

 

14049 ORLEANS

09018255.002L

ORLEANS 15 FT OF 159 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54
PLATS, 9f138 15 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14045 ORLEANS 09018256. ORLEANS 160 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100 

14053 ORLEANS 09018258. ORLEANS 162 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14027 ORLEANS 09018259. ORLEANS 163 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

13627 ORLEANS 09018261. ORLEANS 175 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14026 RIOPELLE 09018407. RIOPELLE 264 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
97138 30 100

14030 RIOPELLE 09018408. RIOPELLE 265 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14056 RIOPELLE 09018412. RIOPELLE 269 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 

 

 

9/138 30 100

 

Exhibit Page 16 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

14062 RIOPELLE 09018413. RIOPELLE 270 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14068 RIOPELLE 09018414. RIOPELLE 271 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14072 RIOPELLE 09018415. RIOPELLE 272 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14140 RIOPELLE 09018426. RIOPELLE 283 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

14146 RIOPELLE 09018427. RIOPELLE 284 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

18524 RIOPELLE 09018527. RIOPELLE 854 CADILLAC HEIGHTS SUB L33 P81 PLATS, 

9/163 35 120

 

14153 RIOPELLE

09018946001

RIOPELLE TRIANG PT OF 426 THRU 423 BG 45 FT ON 
LINE 100 FT ON LINE MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS,
9/138 2,250 SQ FT

 

14147 RIOPELLE

09018946.002L

RIOPELLE 285 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

 

14141 RIOPELLE

09018947.

RIOPELLE 285 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

 

14123 RIOPELLE

09018950.

RIOPELLE 289 MC CALLU MS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 30 100

 

14117 RIOPELLE

09018951.

RIOPELLE 96.56 FT ON LINE BG 100 FT ON LINE 290
MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 9/138 30 98.28A

 

14105 RIOPELLE

09018953.

RIOPELLE 93.13 FT ON LINE BG 89.69 FT ON LINE
292 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 9/138 30 
91.41A

 

14099 RIOPELLE

09018954.

RIOPELLE 89.69FT ON LINE BG 86.25FT ON 5 LINE 293
MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 9/138 30 IRREG

 

14099 RIOPELLE

09018954.

RIOPELLE 89.69FT ON LINE BG 86.25FT ON 5 LINE 293
MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 9/138 30 IRREG

 

14093 RIOPELLE

09018955.

RIOPELLE 86.25 FT ON LINE BG 82.81 FT ON 5 LINE
294 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 9/138 30 
84.53A

 

14087 RIOPELLE

09018956.

RIOPELLE 82.81 FT ON LINE BG 79.38 FT ON 5 LINE
295 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 9/138 30 
81.10A

 

14081 RIOPELLE

09018957-60

RIOPELLE 79.38 FT ON LINE BG 65.62 FT ON 5 LINE
296 THRU 299 MC CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 
9/138 120 72.50A

 

14051 RIOPELLE

09018961-9016

RIOPELLE 65.62 FT ON LINE BG 62.19 FT ON 5 LINE
300 62.19 FT ON LINE BG 58.75 FT ON LINE 301 MC
CALLUMS ADD L30 P54 PLATS, 9/138 60 IRREG

 

 

 

19422 HULL 09019852-3 HULL 139&138 FORD GARDENS SUB L32 P76 PLATS, 
9/172 60 100
18589 HULL 09020110. HULL 494 CADILLAC HEIGHTS SUB L33 P81 PLATS, 

 

 

9/163 35 120

 

Exhibit Page 17 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

17807 HULL 09020162?3 HULL 18 17 BLK 4 JEROME PARK SUB L12 P52 PLATS, 
9/152 60 125

20182 HANNA 09020320. HANNA 20 FT 925 20 FT 926 EIGHT-OAKLAND SUB NO 1
L37 P23 PLATS, 9/176 40 100

20240 HANNA 09020327. HANNA 20 FT 933 20 FT 934 EIGHT-OAKLAND SUB NO 1
L37 P23 FLATS, 97176 40 100

18151 RUSSELL 09020982. RUSSELL 20 FT 355 15 FT 356 CADILLAC HEIGHTS SUB

L33 P81 PLATS, 9/163 35 117.50

 

20468 OMIRA

09022837-55

OMIRA 18 FT 293 294 THRU 305 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ EXC 7
FREEWAY AS OP EIGHT-OAKLAND SUB L34 P66 PLATS, 
9/177 432 IRREG

 

IRVINGTON 741-742 LINDALE GARDENS SUB L33 PLATS,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19660 IRVINGTON 09023307-8
9f167 60 104.43A

19363 COVENTRY 09024329. COVENTRY 184 LINDALE GARDENS SUB L33 P87 PLATS, 
9/167 30 100

19227 COVENTRY 09024348. COVENTRY COVENTRY PARK EXC PTS DEEDED LINDALE
GARDENS SUB L33 P87 PLATS, 9/167 366.34 IRREG

20478 DERBY 09024734. DERBY 16.5 FT 43 44 WOODWARD BOULEVARD SUB L35
P62 PLATS, 9/179 49.5 130

2665 AUSTIN 10000150.003L AUSTIN 30 FT OF 31 FT 62 WARDS SUB L1 P263 PLATS,
10/21 30 108

2435 PERRY 10000300-1 PERRY 74 FT 390 ALSO PT OF LOTS 389 388 B6 80.94
FT ON LINE 36.45 FT ON LINE STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS, 10/30 74 IRREG

2624 ASH 10000324-44 ASH 36 FT OF PLAT L1 P204 PLATS, 
10/29 36 50

2428 ASH 10000348006 ASH 18.70 FT OF 37.THE
STANTON FARM L1 P255 PLATS, 10/85 18.70 50

2124 SELDEN 10000405. SELDEN 1 WYNNES SUB L12 P75 PLATS, 10/37 27 
72

2660 FERRY PARK 10000974. FERRY PARK 29 WM HAMLINS SUB L10 P15 PLATS, 
10,051 30 144.62

2660 HOGARTH 10001398-9 HOGARTH 310 THRU 312 CROSMAN MC KAYS SUB L17
P98 PLATE, 10/69 90 110

2740 BOSTON 10002794. BOSTON AVE 20 PEARSONS BOSTON BLVD SUB L33 P16

BLVD PLATS, 10]104 40 111

2730 BOSTON 10002795. BOSTON AVE 19 PEARSONS BOSTON BLVD SUB L33 P16

BLVD PLATS, 10/104 40 111

2720 BOSTON 10002796. BOSTON AVE 18 PEARSONS BOSTON BLVD SUB L33 P16

BLVD PLATS, 10/104 40 111

2710 BOSTON 10002797. BOSTON AVE 17 PEARSONS BOSTON BLVD SUB L33 P16

BLVD

PLATS, 10/104 40 111

 

2620 BOSTON
BLVD

10002799-804

BOSTON AVE 12 THRU 7 PEARSONS BOSTON BLVD SUB L33
P16 PLATE, 101104 240 111

 

 

3749 WABASH

 

10004724.

 

WABASH 243 SUB OF GODFROY FARM L1 P293 PLATS, 
10/32 42 141.57A

 

 

Exhibit - Page 18 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AddreSS Parcel ID Legal Description

3739 WABASH 10004725-7 WABASH 242-241 28 FT 240 SUB OF GODFROY FARM L1
P293 PLATS, 10/32 112 141.43A 

3413 WABASH 10004743-51 WABASH 172 THRU 164 SUB OF GODFROY FARM L1 P293
PLATS, 10/32 375 141.18

3329 WABASH 10004752. WABASH 163 SUB OF GODFROY FARM L1 P293 PLATS, 
10/32 42 141.18

3313 WABASH 10004753-4 WABASH 162-161 SUB OF GODFROY FARM L1 P293 PLATS,
10/32 84 141.18

2100 ASH 10004755. WABASH 160 SUB OF GODFROY FARM L1 P293 PLATS, 
10/32 42 141.18

3115 WABASH 10004760. WABASH 155 SUB OF GODFROY FARM L1 P293 PLATS, 
10/32 42 141.18

3107 WABASH 10004761001 WABASH 20 FT 154 SUB OF GODFROY FARM L1 P293

PLATS, 10/32 20 141.18

 

 

 

 

2642 15TH ST 10005398. 15TH 50 SUB OF 44 168 P2-3 DEEDS, 10/31 40 
106.85
2942 15TH ST 10005418. 15TH L68 P2-3 DEEDS, 10/31 40 73
3368 15TH ST 10005444. 15TH 28 FT 253 SUB OF 44 168 P2-3 DEEDS, 
10/31 28 106.85
3315 15TH ST 10005818. 15TH 242 SUB OF 44 L68 P2-3 DEEDS, 10/31 40 

106.85

 

2643 15TH ST

10005857-72

FIFTEENTH 64 THRU 62 EXC 10 FT 81 EXC 93.8 FT ON 
LINE BG 5 25.14 FT ON LINE SUB OF PC 44 L68 P2-3 DEEDS,
10/31 84.86 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2666 16TH ST 10005983. 16TH 24.30 FT 80 OF 44 168 P2-3 DEEDS, 
10/31 64.30 106.85

2818 16TH ST 10005991. 16TH 117 SUB OF 44 168 P23 DEEDS, 10/31 40 
106.85

4498 16TH ST 10006091-2 16TH 565-566 SUB OF 44 L68 P2-3 DEEDS, 10/31
66 106.85

5626 16TH ST 10006148. 16TH 146 MARY SUB L6 P8 PLATS, 
10/48 30 106.85

3043 16TH ST 10006450. SIXTEENTH 204 SUB OF PC 44 L68 P2-3 DEEDS, 
10/31 40 106.85

3035 16TH ST 10006451. 16TH 203 SUB OF 44 168 P2-3 DEEDS, 10/31 40 

106.85 

3027 16TH ST 10006452. 16TH 202 SUB OF 44 168 P23 DEEDS, CR 10/31 40 
106.85

3019 16TH ST 10006453. 16TH 201 SUB OF 44 168 DEEDS, 10/31 40 
106.85

2919 16TH ST 10006460001 SIXTEENTH 1105UB OF PC 44 L68 P2-3 PLATS, WCR 10/31
40 106.85

2822 17TH ST 10006628. 17TH 40 FT 393 SUB OF STANTON FARM 11 P157 PLATS,

 

 

10/30 40 150

 

Exhibit Page 19 of67

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

2840 17TH ST 10006631. 17TH 395 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS, 
10/30 50 150

2850 17TH ST 10006632. 17TH 396 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS, 
10/30 50 150

2862 17TH ST 10006633. 17TH 397 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS, 
10/30 50 150

3030 17TH ST 10006642. 17TH 1/2 449 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS, 

10730 25 150

 

4628 17TH ST

10006740.007L

17TH 803 STANTONS SUB L10 P16 PLATS, WCR 10/39 31 
150

 

3383 17TH ST

10007021.

17TH 30 FT 470 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P255 PLATS,
10/85 30 150

 

3057 17TH ST

10007038001

17TH STANTON FARM L1
P157 PLATS, 10/30 50 150

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3031 17TH ST 10007041. 17TH STANTON FARM L1
P157 PLATS, 10/30 27 150

3005 17TH ST 10007044. 17TH 445 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS, 
10/30 50 150

2871 17TH ST 10007050. 17TH 405 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS, 
10/30 50 150

3016 18TH ST 10007229. 18TH 30 FT 426 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS,
10/30 30 151.56

3060 18TH ST 10007234. 18TH 430 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P157 PLATS, 
10/30 50 151.56

3314 18TH ST 10007240. 18TH 480 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P255 PLATS, 

10/85 50 151.56
3364 18TH ST 10007248. 18TH 25 FT OF 485 SUB OF STANTON FARM L1 P255

PLATS, 10/85 25 151.56

 

3090 HU MBOLDT

10008119-48

HUMBOLDT 109 THRU 106 BRADISH HUBBARDS SUB L1
P133 PLATS, 10/27 36,472 SQ FT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2659 ERSKINE 11001362CHENE EST L2 P43 PLATS,
11/54 30 X83
2648 PIERCE 11001374. PIERCE CHENE EST L2 P43 PLATS, 
11/54 30 83 
2642 PIERCE 11001375. PIERCE CHENE EST L2 P43 PLATS, 
11/54 30 83
2825 PIERCE 11001394-5 PIERCE 30 JOHNSTON 8 SANDERSONS SUB L1 P290 PLATS,
11/55 32 x90
2656 SCOTT 11001409. SCOTT CHENE EST L2 P43 PLATS, 
11/54 30 90
2651 SCOTT 11001417. SCOTT 11 BLK 4 STOEPELS SUB L5 P71 PLATS, 11/59
30 100
2821 SCOTT 11001427. SCOTT 13 JOHNSTON 8 SANDERSONS SUB L1 P290 PLATS,
11,515 32 100
2802 HALE 11001432. HALE 7 3.40 FT 8 JOHNSTON 8 SANDERSONS SUB L1 P290

 

 

 

 

PLATS, 11/55 35.40 100

 

Exhibit Page 20 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

2800 MACK 11001460. MACK 16 SANDERSONS SUB L1 P251 PLATS, 11/61 28
100

2639 LELAND 11001562. LELAND 11 BLK 9 LOTHROPS SUB L5 P58 PLATS, 
11/65 30 119.6

2671 WARREN 11001711-3 WARREN 11 THRU 9 WJ CRAIGS SUB L6 P26 PLATS, 
11/71 90 108.39

2666 THEODORE 11001714-6 THEODORE 36 THRU 34 WJ CRAIGS SUB L6 P26 PLATS, 
11/71 90 108.39

2623 FERRY 11001804.002L FERRY 83.03 FT 13 NOAHS SUB L14 P20 PLATS, 

11/76 30 83.03

 

3017 MEDBU RY

11001959.002L

W-E GRAND BLVD LYG BETW MITCHELL AVE GRAND BLVD SUB OF THE MC
DOUGALL FARM L2 P31 PLATS, 11/85 52 100.25

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5047 MCDOUGALL 11002032. MC DOUGALL 24 TRAUGOTT SCHMIDTS SUB L11 P35
PLATS, 11/91 28.79 100.4

4403 MCDOUGALL 11002085. MC DOUGALL 1/2 23 24 BLK 63 MONNIG 
WURZBURGERS SUB L8 P59 PLATS, 11/94 46.9 100.40

2528 JOSEPH 11002309. JOS CAMPAU 22 BLK 43-SUB OF PTJOS CAMPAU FARM L5

CAM PAU P26 PLATS, 11/13 33 100

5340 JOSEPH 11002469. JOS CAMPAU 0.5 FT 185 GRANDYS SUB L11 P10 PLATS,

CAMPAU WCR 11/106 0.5 101.2

4840 CHENE 11003048. CHENE 16 SUB OF CHENE ESTATE L2 P43 PLATS, 
11/54 364.90 546.66

5136 MITCHELL 11003298. MITCHELL 2 SCHMIDTS SUB L11 P35 PLATS, 
11/91 30 100

3611 MITCHELL 11003599. MITCHELL 14 BLK 51 SUB OF JOS CAM PAU FARM L5 P26
PLATS, 11/13 30 101.2

4242 GRANDY 11003634. GRANDY 164 THRU 160 BAXTER, LICHTENBURG, MELVIN,
PERRIEN, KUHN 8: ARNDT SUB L3 P83 PLATS, 11/110
150 101.50

5038 GRANDY 11003678. GRANDY 23 BLK 58 PERRIENS SUB L3 P77 PLATS, 
11/108 30 101.5

5801 GRANDY 11003839-42 GRANDY 6 THRU 12 7.5 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ CHARLES 
HOPKINS SUB L8 P6 PLATS, 11/77 211.53 IRREG

5517 GRAN DY 11003862. GRANDY 25 NOAHS SUB L14 P20 PLATS, 11/76 30 
105.66

4189 GRANDY 11003952. GRANDY 24 MOELLERS SUB L5 P1 PLATS, 11/67 30 
106.66

3911 GRANDY 11003971. GRANDY 30.2 FT 20 LOTHROPS SUB L5 P58 PLATS, WCR

11/65 30.2 100

 

2940 

12000430-54

74 FT OF LOTS 6 THRU 11 JOHN ZEISLERS SUB L5
P11 PLATS, 12/50 13,264 SQ FT

 

 

2906 HANCOCK

 

12000625.

 

HANCOCK 27.4 FT OF 81.3 FT 29-28-27 TRAINORS SUB
L17 P48 PLATS, WCR 12/68 27.4 90

 

Exhibit Page 21 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
8341 WILDEMERE 12001888. EUCLID 73 22.10 FT OF VAC WILDERMERE AVE LYG OF
ADJ LOT 73 LYNDALE SUB L18 P30 PLATS, 12/182
52.1IRREG
3346 EUCLID 12001911. EUCLID 38 CO SUB L29 P99 PLATS,
12/170 36 104
3259 CLAIRMOUNT 12002606. 5 CLAIRMOUNT 261 COONLEYS SUB L31 P30 PLATS, 

12/173 40.83 IRREG

 

2900 ROCHESTER

12002883-92

ROCHESTER 207 THRU 197 DEXTER BOULEVARD HEIGHTS
SUB L30 P81 PLATS, 12/178 336.24 107

 

 

 

 

 

 

3014 RICHTON 12003788. RICHTON 469 LINWOOD HEIGHTS SUB L35 P6 PLATS, 
12/201 35 120.50

3351 BUENA VISTA 12004274. BUENA VISTA 68 SULLIVAN DEXTER BOULEVARD SUB L46
P30 PLATS, 12/287 38 104.50

3205 TYLER 12004300. TYLER 100 THRU 102 WARK-GILBERT COS SECURITY SUB L38
P60 PLATS, 12/273 105 110

1988 EWALD CIRCLE 12005028. EWALD CIRCLE 82 ROBERT OAKMANS FORD HWY DEXTER
BLVD SUB L36 P85 PLATS, 12/222 21 100

9305 WILDEMERE 12006016. WILDEMERE 149 5 FT 150 MONTCLAIR HEIGHTS SUB L30
P89 PLATS, 12/177 35 129

4829 LAWTON 12006416. LAWTON AVE 32-31 TRAINORS SUB L17 P48 PLATS, 

12/68 60 103.8

 

5046 JEFFRIES

12006614-32

JEFFRIES FWY 1 THRU 7 VAC ALLEY ADJ PADDOCKS
SUB L25 P10 PLATS, 12/73 180 292

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1411 20TH ST 12007627. 20TH 30 FT OF 59 FT 7 THRU 10 WESSON 
INGERSOLLS SUB L4 P12 PLATS, 12/25 30 120

3700 23RD ST 12008099. 23RD 335 JOHNSTONS SUB L1 PLATS, 
12/42 30 IRREG

4836 23RD ST 12008146. 23RD 62 HUBBARD DINGWALLS SUB L14 P53 PLATS, 

12/67 30 175

4844 23RD ST 12008147. 23RD 61 HUBBARD DINGWALLS SUB L14 P53 PLATS, 
12/67 30 175

3550 24TH ST 12008648. 24TH 261J JOHNSTONS SUB L1 P32-3 PLATS, 
12/42 50 135

3390 25TH ST 12009233-4 25TH LOT 202; 10 FT 201; JOHNSTONS SUB L1 P32-3
PLATS, WCR 60X100.14A

3586 25TH ST 12009245. 25TH 1/2 236 5 FT 2351 JOHNSTONS SUB L1 P32-3
PLATS, 12/42 30 100 

3744 25TH ST 12009255-7 25TH 400-396J JOHNSTONS SUB L1 P32-3 PLATS, 
12/42 150 100

2077 25TH ST 12009614. 25TH 97 SCOTTEN, DAVIS SUB L2 P19 PLATS, 
121289 50 149

4046 ROOSEVELT 12010080. ROOSEVELT 5 GROSFIELD SCANLONS SUB L20 P1 PLATS,
127292 30 99 

16157 DEXTER 12010717. DEXTER 28.29 FT 0N LINE BG 28.00 FT ON LINE 93

 

 

JEROME SUB L35 P23 PLATS, 12/250 28 IRREG

 

Exhibit Page 22 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

15495 MUIRLAND 12011890. MUIRLAND 275 FORD PLAINS SUB L35 P39 PLATS, 
12/237 30 100

14733 FAIRFIELD 12012251-4 FAIRFIELD 182;181;180;179 ROBERT OAKMANS LIVERNOIS
AND TERMINAL SUB L35 P64 PLATS, 12/226 112.3
IRREG

16157 QUINCY 12012721. QUINCY 28.95 FT IN FRONT 36 29.24 FT IN REAR 73
JEROME SUB L35 P23 PLATS, 12/250 28.95 IRREG

15907 QUINCY 12012730. QUINCY 346 FORD VIEW SUB L29 P63 PLATS, WCR 12/239
30 100

16139 PETOSKEY 12012972. PETOSKEY 20 FT 65 22 FT 66 JEROME SUB L35 P23

7 PLATS, 12/250 42 113

15919 PETOSKEY 12012976. PETOSKEY 378 FORD VIEW SUB L29 P63 PLATS, WCR
12/239 30 100

3132 HENDRICKS 13000861. HENDRICKS 10 BLK 33 A CAMPAUS L4 P96 PLATS, 
13/34 35.66 IRREG

3672 CHARLEVOIX 13001007. CHARLEVOIX 151 BU RLAGES L15 P43 PLATS, 13/46 30
105

3707 CHARLEVOIX 13001085. CHARLEVOIX 182 BURLAGES L15 P43 PLATS, 13/46
30 105

3424 ARNDT 13001114. ARNDT 21 MRS KLEINS L12 P13 PLATS, 13/49 30 
105

3400 ARNDT 13001118. 5 ARNDT 17 MRS KLEINS L12 P13 PLATS, 13/49 30 
105

3340 BENSON 13001226. BENSON 20 FT 3 25 FT 2 THE WALTZ SUB L23 P48
PLATS, 13/53 45 FT OF 90.40 FT OF 63.44 FT 7
DE GALEN HEIRS L276 P140-2 DEEDS, 13/51 45 
107.04A

3185 ILLINOIS 13001929. ILLINOIS 37 WALTZ MEIER STICKELS L8 P83 PLATS, 
13/86 31.62 100

3313 LELAND 13001983. LELAND 4 WALTZS L19 P33 PLATS, 13/78 30 119.60

3371 LELAND 13001992. LELAND 37 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30 
119.60

3377 LELAND 13001993. LELAND 38 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30 
119.60

3381 LELAND 13001994. LELAND 39 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88

50.10 IRREG

 

3409 LELAND

13001998?2002

LELAND 19 YOUNGBLOODS L9 P76 PLATS, 13/80 30
119.60

 

 

 

 

3406 ALEXANDRINE 13002003. 5 ALEXANDRINE 10 YOUNGBLOODS L9 P76 PLATS, 
13/80 30 119.60

3400 ALEXANDRINE 13002004. 5 ALEXANDRINE 9 YOUNGBLOODS L9 P76 PLATS, 
13/80 30 119.50

3394 ALEXANDRINE 13002005. 5 ALEXANDRINE 8 YOU NGBLOODS L9 P76 PLATS, 
13/80 30 119.50 

3380 ALEXANDRINE 13002007. 5 ALEXANDRINE 24 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 

 

 

 

13/88 35.92 IRREG

 

Exhibit Page 23 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

3374 ALEXANDRINE 13002008. ALEXANDRINE 25 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 
13/88 30 119.60

3364 ALEXANDRINE 13002010. 5 ALEXANDRINE 27 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 
13/88 30 119.64

3358 ALEXANDRINE 13002011. ALEXANDRINE 28 TABERS SUB L20 P33 PLATS, 
13/88 30 119.60

3350 ALEXANDRINE 13002012. ALEXANDRINE 29 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 
13/88 30 119.60 

3336 ALEXANDRINE 13002014. ALEXANDRINE 31 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 
13788 30 119.60

3314 ALEXANDRINE 13002018. ALEXANDRINE 41 SUB OF 0 NO 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9
P29 PLATS, 13191 30 96

3304 ALEXANDRINE 13002020. ALEXANDRINE 39 SUB OF 0 NO 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9
P29 PLATS, 13/91 30 96

3307 ALEXANDRINE 13002042. ALEXANDRINE 37 SUB OF 0 NO 3 CHAPOTON FAMR L9
P29 PLATS, 13/91 30 96

3315 ALEXANDRINE 13002043. ALEXANDRINE 36 SUB OF 0 NO 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9
P29 PLATS, 13/91 30 96

3319 ALEXANDRINE 13002044. ALEXANDRINE 35 SUB OF 0 NO 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9
P29 PLATS, 13/91 30 96

3357 ALEXANDRINE 13002050. ALEXANDRINE 15 FT OF 19 TABERS L20 P33
PLATS, 13,038 15 96

3363 ALEXANDRINE 13002051. ALEXANDRINE 20 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 
13/88 30 96

3387 ALEXANDRINE 13002055. ALEXANDRINE 6 YOUNGBLOODS L9 P76 PLATS, 
13/80 49.51 FT 4 FRED LEMKIES L13 P2 PLATS, 13/93


3401 ALEXANDRINE 13002057. ALEXANDRINE 4 YOUNGBLOODS L9 P76 PLATS, 
13/FRED LEMKIES L13 P2 PLATS, 
13493 30 96

3407 ALEXANDRINE 13002058. ALEXANDRINE 3 YOUNGBLOODS L9 P76 PLATS, 
13/80 30 FT 4 FRED LEMKIES L13 P2 PLATS, 13/93 30
96

3392 SUPERIOR 13002078. SUPERIOR 8 FRED LEMKIES L13 P2 PLATS, 13/93 30 
96

3386 SUPERIOR 13002079. 5 SUPERIOR 9 FRED LEMKIES L13 P2 PLATS, 13/93
28.01IRREG

3382 SUPERIOR 13002080. SUPERIOR 8 6 FT 9 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 
13/88 27.73 IRREG

3376 SUPERIOR 13002081. 5 SUPERIOR 24 FT9 3 FT 10 TABERS L20 P33
PLATS, 13788 27 96

3370 SUPERIOR 13002082. SUPERIOR 27 FT 10 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 
13/88 27 96

3358 SUPERIOR 13002084. SUPERIOR 12 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30

 

 

 

X96

 

Exhibit Page 24 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

3352 SUPERIOR 13002085. SUPERIOR 13 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30
96

3346 SUPERIOR 13002086. SUPERIOR 14 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30
96

3338 SUPERIOR 13002087. 5 SUPERIOR 15 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30
96

3318 SUPERIOR 13002090. 5 SUPERIOR 30 SUB OF 0 L3 CHAPOTON FARM L9 P29 PLATS,



3312 SUPERIOR 13002091. SUPERIOR 29 SUB OF 0 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9 P29 PLATS,
13/91 30 96

3306 SUPERIOR 13002092. SUPERIOR 28 SUB OF 0 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9 P29 PLATS,
13/91 30 96

3300 SUPERIOR 13002093. 5 SUPERIOR 27 SUB OF 0 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9 P29 PLATS,

WC 

 

3303 SUPERIOR

13002108.001

SUPERIOR CHAPOTON FARM L9
P29 PLATS, 13/91 30 56

 

4162 ELMWOOD

13002108.002L

SUPERIOR CHAPOTON FARM
L9 P29 PLATS, 13/91 30 40

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3313 SUPERIOR 13002110. SUPERIOR 24 SUB OF 0 NO 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9 P29
PLATS, 13/91 30 96
3325 SUPERIOR 13002112. SUPERIOR 22 SUB OF 0 NO 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9 P29
PLATS, 13/91 30 96
3331 SUPERIOR 13002113. SUPERIOR 21 SUB OF 0 NO 3 CHAPOTON FARM L9 P29
PLATS, 13/91 33.62 96
3349 SUPERIOR 13002116. SUPERIOR 3 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30
96
"3357 SUPERIOR 13002117. SUPERIOR 4 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30
96
3363 SUPERIOR 13002118. SUPERIOR 5 TABERS L20 P33 PLATS, 13/88 30
96
3403 SUPERIOR 13002124. SUPERIOR 13 FRED LEMKIES L13 P2 PLATS, 13/93 30
96
3588 WILLIS 13002161. WILLIS 36.97 FT OF 97.50 FT 19 LYG 5 OF ADJ WILLIS
AVE LIEB FARM L45 P664 DEEDS, WCR 13/1 4.40 FT 61
HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63 PLATS, 13/95 41.37
IRREG
3580 WILLIS 13002162. 5 WILLIS 14.50 FT 61 60 HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63
PLATS, 13/95 44.50 96
3576 WILLIS 13002163. 5 WILLIS 59 HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63 PLATS, 
13/95 30 96
3566 WILLIS 13002164. WILLIS 58 HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63 PLATS, 
13/95 30 96
3530 WILLIS 13002170. 5 WILLIS 52 HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63 PLATS, 
I 13/95 30 96
3524 WILLIS 13002171. WILLIS 51 HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63 FLATS, 

 

 

13/95 30 96

 

Exhibit Page 25 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

3683 WILLIS 13002232. WILLIS 9 LAMBERTS L16 P38 PLATS, 13/84 30 
158.50

3613 HANCOCK 13002663. HANCOCK 78 GORENFLOS L20 P45 PLATS, 13/125 30
172.45

3182 KIRBY 13003185. KIRBY 17 JOSEPH PERRIEN L20 P14 PLATS, 13/104 33
105

3645 PALMER 13003506-8 PALMER 10-LIEB FARM L13 P37
PLATS, 13/155 150 171.97A 

1872 GRAND BLVD 13003577. GRAND BLVD 3 LESINSKI L29 P41 PLATS,
13/161 40 183.53A

6148 NORWALK 13005299. 5 NORWALK 277 EATON LAND CO SUB L36 P48 PLATS, 
13/272 30 100

5545 CASMERE 13005898. CASMERE 50 THEJ HUDSON COMPANY L32 P38 PLATS, 
13/213 30 100

5551 CASMERE 13005899. CASMERE 51 THEJ HUDSON COMPANY L32 P38 PLATS, 

13/213 30 100

5561 CASMERE 13005901. CASMERE 53 THEJ HUDSON COMPANY L32 P38 PLATS, 
13/213 30 100

5569 CASMERE 13005902. CASMERE 54 THEJ HUDSON COMPANY L32 P38 PLATS, 
13/213 30 100

5575 CASMERE 13005903. CASMERE 55 THEJ HUDSON COMPANY L32 P38 PLATS, 

13/213 30 100

 

5695 CASMERE

13005923-34

CASMERE 645 THRU 639 EATON LAND CO SUB NO 1 L52
P76 PLATS, 13/314 22,886 SQ FT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5592 TALBOT 13005969. 5 TALBOT 28 THE I HUDSON COMPANY L32 P38 PLATS, 
13/213 30 100 

5584 TALBOT 13005970. TALBOT 29 THE HUDSON COMPANY L32 P38 PLATS, 
13/213 30 100

5580 TALBOT 13005971. 5 TALBOT 30 THE HUDSON COMPANY L32 P38 PLATs, 
13/213 30 100

5441 CHARLES 13006891-2 CHARLES 34&33 TEPPERT PATERSON L46 P100 PLATS, 
13/290 43.82 IRREG

3641 MILO 13007850. MILO 265 TREPPA IGANEKS CONANT AVE L34 P54
PLATS, 13/227 30 100

3741 MT ELLIOTT 13009871. MT ELLIOTT 24?25-26 BLK 3--ZENDERS L14 P4 PLATS, 
13/69 86 110

2447 MT ELLIOTT 13009933-5 MT ELLIOTT LOT 65 AMENDED PLAT OF VAC THETA PARK
OF ELMWOOD PARK URBAN RENEWAL PLAT NO 3 L119 
PLATS 13/352 126.31 IRREG 36,547 SQ FT

4176 MORAN 13010155. MORAN 48 HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63 PLATS, 
13/95 30 100

4182 MORAN 13010156. MORAN 49 HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63 PLATS, 
13/95 30 100

4190 MORAN 13010157. MORAN 50 HARRIET HAWORTHS L8 P63 PLATS, 

 

 

13/95 30 100

 

Exhibit Page 26 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

4648 MORAN 13010186-91 MORAN 18 ALBERT BREITMEYERS SUB L17 P18 PLATS, 
13/115 21,427 SO. FT

5901 MORAN 13010272. MORAN 1 HOFMAN L27 P49 PLATS, 13/166 38.66 
120

3000 ELMWOOD 13010444. ELMWOOD 1 DE GALEN HEIRS L276 P140-2 DEEDS, 
13/51 33.72 105

3928 ELMWOOD 13010468. ELMWOOD 1 WALTZS L19 P33 PLATS, 13/78 14.13 
183.62

3800 MCDOUGALL 13010824. MC DOUGALL 156 GRAN DYS L7 P56 PLATS, 13/89 35
103.05A

3840 MCDOUGALL 13010830. MC DOUGALL 34 FT 162 GRANDYS L7 P56 PLATS, 
13/89 34 103.57A

5430 MCDOUGALL 13010926. MC DOUGALL 67 HOBANS L24 P34 PLATS, 13/145 30
100.40

1964 GRAND BLVD 13010954. GRAND BLVD 4 THRU 5 AUGUST QUASTS SUB L23 P98
PLATS, 13/159 66.06 IRREG 

9625 BROCKTON 13011074. BROCKTON 91 EATON LAND CO L39 P48 PLATS, 
13/272 30X100

9517 BROCKTON 13011086. BROCKTON 103 EATON LAND CO L39 P48 PLATS, 
137272 30X100

8033 DWYER 13012183. DWYER 1 LELAND DODGE L37 P2 PLATS, 13/250
69.55 IRREG

17231 GABLE 13012685-6 GABLE 15 FT OF 208 207 BERMAN FRIEDMANS 
DETROIT L35 P17 FLATS, 13/221 45 100

19157 ALBANY ST 13013497-8 ALBANY 33-32 MOUND L41 P82 PLATS, 13/276 60 
108

18023 ALBANY ST 13013566. ALBANY 19 JUDSON BRADWAYS MOUND AVE L38 P98

PLATS, 13/266 30 112

 

 

18444 SYRACUSE 13013645-55 SYRACUSE 244-254 NORTH DETROIT HOMES SUB NO 1 L37
P82 PLATS, 13/270 385 112
18491 SYRACUSE 13013874-81 SYRACUSE 225-232 NORTH DETROIT HOMES SUB NO 1 L37

P82 PLATS, 13/270 280 112

 

 

 

12858 CALDWELL 13014136. CALDWELL 76 BAYERS CHARLES AVE L45 P17 PLATS, 
13/282 30 100

18648 BLOOM 13015197. BLOOM 597 HARRAHS NORWOOD SUB L34 P77 PLATS, 
13/232 35 107.067A

19182 BLOOM 13015227. BLOOM VAC ALLEY

ADJ CLARENCE MILLIGAN SUB L47 P88 PLATS, 13/179
40 120

 

18658 LAMONT

13017357.002L

LAMONT 17.5 FT 182 SUB L33 P61 PLATS
WCR 13/239 17.5 107

 

19339 HEALY

13017784-90

HEALYE71 FTOFS 10 FT58 E71 FTOF 15 FT57S 15 FT
57 56 THRU 52 154 THRU 159 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ SEVEN
OAKS SUB L36 P9 PLATS, 137243 190 IRREG

 

 

17800 WEXFORD

 

"13021460.

 

WEXFORD 169 TREPPA CIGANEKS CONANT AVE SUB L34
P54 PLATS, 13/227 30 100

 

Exhibit Page 27 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

20231 YONKA 13021956. YONKA 418 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ SEYMOUR 
TROESTERS CLAIRMONT PARK SUB L52 P43 PLATS, 
13/312 40 109.98

17806 NORWOOD 13022062-9 NORWOOD 253 THRU 246 TREPPA CIGANEKS CONANT
AVE SUB L34 P54 PLATS, 13/227 240 100

4074 CLARK CT 14000215. CLARK CT5 HAIRES SUB L8 P65 PLATS, 14/21 6
HAIRES SUB L20 P54 PLATS, 14/22 30 173.36

1580 VINEWOOD 14000277. 5 BAGLEY 3 THRU 1 BLK 4 HUBBARDS SUB L5 P49 PLATS, 
14/27 115 146

5540 MCKINLEY 14001312. HUDSON 31.OF48 THRU 50
CAHALENS SUB L10 P71 PLATS, 14/80 31.23 IRREG

3840 HUDSON 14001331. HUDSON 7 BLK 15 CAMPAUS SUB L4 P32 PLATS, 
14/69 30 120

3801 MCGRAW 14001351. MC GRAW THAT 140.2 FT ON LINE 8: 145 FT ON LINE BLK 15 
CAM PAUS SUB L4 P32 PLATS, 14/69 37.6 IRREG

4292 ALLENDALE 14002018. ALLENDALE 180 ALLENDALE SUB L23 P70 PLATS, 
14/92 30 120

8323 HOLMUR 14002789. VIRGINIA PARK 47 THRU 56 HOOKERS SUB L29 P28 PLATS,
WCR 14/166 86 THRU 94 17 FT OF 95 VAC ALLEY ADJ
STORMFELTZ-LOVELEY CO SUB L29 P99 PLATS, 14/167
351 IRREG

4385 EUCLID 14002837. 5 EUCLID 115 STORMFELTZ-LOVELEY CO SUB L29 P99 PLATS,
14/167 35 108.88

4391 EUCLID 14002838. EUCLID 116 STORMFELTZ-LOVELEY CO SUB L29 P99 PLATS,

14/167 35 IRREG

 

4094 DUANE

14004292-306

DUANE 78 THRU 93 139 THRU 170 216 THRU 231 AND VAC
MONTERREY AVE ADJ AND VAC ALLEYS ADJ LEWIS 
CROFOOTS SUB NO 5 L27 P70 PLATS, 14/194 213,880
SQ FT

 

 

 

3733 STU RTEVANT 14004649. 5 STU RTEVANT 492 SULLIVANS DEXTER BLVD SUB NO 1 L55
P53 PLATS, 14/211 36.40 121

2501 EWALD CIRCLE 14005961. 5 EWALD CIRCLE 94 ROBT OAKMANS LIVERNOIS 8: FORD HWY
SUB L36 P2 PLATS, 14/197 20 100

8699 HERITAGE PL 14006904-6 DUMBARTON 17 THRU 13 52.1 FT 12 AND 2 FT VAC

ALLEY ADJ ALSO 7.9 FT SD 12 DUMBARTON ROAD SUB
L44 P72 PLATS, 14/185 387.9 FT IRREG

 

8830 PETOSKEY

14006919-28

PETOSKEY 20 FT 13 14 THRU 22 AND 18.0 FT VAC
ALLEY ADJ LAMBRECHT, KELLY C05 GRAND RIVER TERM
SUB L27 P86 PLATS, 14/162 380 118

 

 

 

 

 

 

9744 MARTINDALE 14007607. MARTINDALE NO 42 NORTHWESTERN HEIGHTS SUB L32 P7
PLATS, 14/177 35 183

1529 GRAND BLVD 14008161. W-W GRAND BLVD 1 THRU 4 BLK 12 BELA HUBBARDS SUB
L13 P5 PLATS, 14/76 180.98 IRREG

3940 MCKINLEY 14008543. MC KINLEY 85 THRU 89 10 FT 90 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ

PLUMERS SUB L8 P92 PLATS, WCR 14/100 199&198 10 FT

 

 

 

Exhibit Page 28 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

197 JOHNSTONS SUB L1 P32-3 PLATS, 14/66 36900
SQ FT

5200 MCKINLEY 14008619. MC KINLEY 403 THRU 406J JOHNSTONS SUB L1 P32-3
PLATS, 14/66 192.83 142.79

2740 VINEWOOD 14008806. VINEWOOD P41 PLATS, 
14/55 30 110

3381 VINEWOOD 14009134. VINEWOOD 32 BLK 1 HUBBARDS SUB L4 P94 PLATS, 

14/64 30 118 

2197 HUBBARD 14009406. HUBBARD 32.34 FT OF 97.16 FT 42 DANIEL 
SUB L1 P196 PLATS, 14/38 32.34 97.16

5159 SCOTTEN 14009908. 153.06 FT ON LINE AND 311.15 FT ON LINE
OPENED FOR ALLEY
3 583 14/4 153.06 IRREG

2088 CLARK 14010116. CLARK 74 QUINN HAGGERTYS SUB L17 P12 PLATS, 
14/35 30 100

748 14010252. 51 SUB L18 P14 PLATS, WCR 14/12 30
162

754 14010253-9 MC 52 SUB L18 P14 PLATS, 14/12
30 162

3879 BANGOR 14010610. BANGOR 31 THRU 29 HEINER GRAHAMS SUB L21 P57
PLATS, 147118 93 158.72

4097 TORREY CT 14010881. WTORREY CTE5 FT OFW50.16 FT OF5208 FT OF C583
LYG ADJ JACKSON ST 60 FT WD 208 5

4510 28TH ST 14010972. 28TH 243 HAMMOND 8: RICHS SUB L6 P67 PLATS, 
14/59 40.90 164.50

5119 28TH ST 14011184. 28TH 324 HAMMOND RICHS SUB L6 P67 PLATS, 
14/59 30 175.8

4403 TIREMAN 14011632. STANFORD 153&154 BLK 10 SCOVELS SUB L25 P91 PLATS,
14/122 76.51IRREG 

5000 30TH ST 14011771. 30TH 69 THRU 61 CRAINS SUB L3 P60 PLATS, 14/189
288 157.09A

5334 30TH ST 14011798. 30TH 87 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, WCR 14/78 30 
155.80

12655 BROADSTREET 14012195. BROADSTREET RUSSELL PARK RUSSELL WOODS SUB L34 P3
PLATS, 14/195 280 500

9990 CASCADE 14012393. CASCADE 5 BLK 36 RAVENSWOOD SUB L10 P81 PLATS, 
14/179 30 110

6419 JEFFERSON 15000031. JEFFERSON 100 FT 1 SUB OF PT OF MELDRUM 

BEAUFAIT FARMS L1 P304 PLATS, 15/10 60.16 100

 

 

 

 

493 FIELD 15000070001 5 CONGRESS 130 FT OF 28 MOSES FIELDS SUB L1 P315
PLATS, 15/21 130 50

643 HELEN 15000084. FORT 46 FT OF 92 FT 30&29 SUB OF PT OF LOUIS
CHAPOTON FARM L7 P7 PLATS, 15719 63.66 46

6335 FORT 15000089. FORT MELDRUM 8: BEAUFAIT

 

 

FARMS L1 P304 PLATS, 15/10 45.11IRREG

 

Exhibit Page 29 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

6531 KERCHEVAL 15000212. KERCHEVAL 30 FT OF VAC ANTIETAM ST LYG OF ADJ
CONCORD AVE 75 THRU 69 24.30 FT 68 BAGGS SUB L5
P59 PLATS, 15/128 

6390 FARNSWORTH 15000530. 5 FARNSWORTH 31 WALTZS SUB L19 P47 PLATS, 15/78
30 108.39

7476 MAYWOOD 15001461. 5 MAYWOOD 201 GABLE PISCOPINKS SUB L29 P86 PLATS,
151243 30 100

7416 GEORGIA 15001684. GEORGIA 109 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 15/244 30 90

7408 GEORGIA 15001685. 5 GEORGIA 108 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 157244 30 90 

7402 GEORGIA 15001686. GEORGIA 107 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 151244 30 90

7388 GEORGIA 15001688. GEORGIA 105 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 151244 30 90

7348 GEORGIA 15001695. GEORGIA 98 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 157244 30 90

7342 GEORGIA 15001696. 5 GEORGIA 97 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 15/244 30 90

7324 GEORGIA 15001699. 5 GEORGIA 94 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 15/244 30 90

7312 GEORGIA 15001701. 5 GEORGIA 92 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATES, 157244 30 90

7308 GEORGIA 15001702. 5 GEORGIA 91 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATE, 15/244 30 90

7300 GEORGIA 15001703. GEORGIA 90 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 157244 30 90

7294 GEORGIA 15001704. GEORGIA 89 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB NO 2
L32 P69 PLATS, 152244 29.17 90 

7348 MARCUS 15001856. 5 MARCUS 169 CLARKES SUB L31 P98 PLATS, 15/245 30
100

7392 ROLAND 15002026. 5 ROLAND 113 CLARKES SUB L31 P98 PLATS, 15/245 30
100

7380 ROLAND 15002028. 5 ROLAND 115 CLARKES SUB L31 P98 PLATS, 15/245 30
100

7345 MERKEL 15002098. MERKEL 2 SUB L32 P34 PLATS, 15/246
40 70.89

7355 MERKEL 15002099. MERKEL 3 MS SUB L32 P34 PLATS, 15/246
40 70.89

7391 GUTHRIE 15002252. GUTHRIE 76 GEO EPSTEANS VAN DYKE PARK SUB L32 P8
PLATS. 15/186 30 100

7003 ARCOLA 15002600. ARCOLA 105 HARRAHS RD SUB L37 P45 PLATS, 
15/193 38.95 111

7127 BRIMSON 15003561-8 BRIMSON 86 THRU 79 NEWKIRK DARLINGS SUB L13 P69

 

 

 

PLATS, 15/198 252 100

 

Exhibit Page 30 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

19348 CLIFF 15006403. CLIFF 48 SEVEN MILE GARDEN SUB L49 P95 PLATS, 
15/249 35 132

9114 ST CYRIL 15006851. ST CYRIL 72 CLARKES SUB L31 P98 PLATS, 15/245 31 
100

9330 ST CYRIL 15006864. ST CYRIL 19 FT 7 6 SUB L32 P35 PLATS, 
15/160 52 100

8445 ST CYRIL 15006983. ST CYRIL 1 BRINKMANS SUB L31 P55 PLATS, 15/156
29.30 100

3751 FIELD 15007377. FIELD 149 ASSESSORS PLAT OF PT OF PC 678 L66 P52
PLATS, 15/276 100.36 IRREG

1821 FIELD 15007456-7 FIELD 40 FT 16 5 FT 17 FIELDS SUB L13 P1 PLATS, 
15/99 45 179

1769 FIELD 15007463. FIELD 21 FIELDS SUB L13 P1 PLATS, 15/99 50 179

7246 ST PAUL 15007469005 UNIT 3 WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN NO 905, ST. PAUL
PLACE CONDOMINIUM REC L44428 P73-120 DEEDS, WCR
15/290 16.67%

7250 ST PAUL 4 15007469006 UNIT 4; WAYNE COUNTY CONDO PLAN NO 905, ST. PAUL
PLACE CONDOMINIUM REC L44428 P73-120 DEEDS, WCR
15/290 16.67%

1103 FIELD 15007478. FIELD 76 MOSES FIELDS 2ND SUB L10 P10 PLATS, 
15/100 50 180

7241 15007489. FIELD W60 FT 56MOSES FIELDS 2ND SUB L10 P10 PLATS,
15/100 50X60

220 GRAND BLVD 15007529. GRAND BLVD 54 MOSES FIELDS SUB (PLATS) L1 P315
PLATS, 15/21 43.35X155

412 GRAND BLVD 15007563. GRAND BLVD 35 FT OF 45 FT 11 FIELDS SUB L13 P1

PLATS, 15/99 35 155

391 GRAND BLVD 15008080. GRAND BLVD 146.30 FT OF 71 MC KAYS SUB L333
P304 DEEDS, 15/152 50 146.30

648 HELEN 15008655. HELEN 55 LOTHROPS SUB L8 P76 PLATS, WCR 15/20 30 
100

654 HELEN 15008656. HELEN 56 LOTHROPS SUB L8 P76 PLATS, WCR 15/20 30 
100

1746 HELEN 15008708. HELEN KAYS SUB L333 P304 DEEDS, 15/152 30 100

1752 HELEN 15008709. HELEN KAYS SUB L333
P304 DEEDS, 15/152 30 100

5512 HELEN 15008933. HELEN 3 BLK 7 BREWERS SUB L11 P71 PLATS, 15/66
30 100

5938 HELEN 15008957. HELEN 7 BLK 10 BREWERS SUB L11 P71 PLATS, 15/66

30 100

703 HELEN 15009876001 HELEN 5 40.33 FT 32 THRU 31 SUB OF LOUIS CHAPOTON
FARM L7 P7 PLATS, 15/19 40.33 63.66

2212 CANTON 15009960. CANTON 10 FT 41 20 FT 42 TEFFTS SUB L23 P19 PLATS,

 

 

 

WCR 15/115 30 103.2A

 

Exhibit Page 3] of 67

 

 

 

Add ress

Parcel ID

Legal Description

 

6821 FERRY

15010308.

CANTON 54 THRU 61 REAR LOTS 62 THRU 69 AND VAC
ALLEYS LYG BETW SAID LOTS JAMES GAMBLES SUB L14 P67
PLATS, 15/80 241.55 231.84

 

5401 CANTON

15010320.

CANTON 33 JOHN BREWERS HELEN AVE SUB L13 P98
PLATS, 157111 31.55 104

 

5001 CANTON

15010353.

CANTON 12 BREWER DAMITIOS SUB L17 P2 PLATS, 
15/118 29.23 104

 

3907 CANTON

15010420.

CANTON 51 SCHWARTZ SUB L16 P34 PLATS, 15/50 
ABT 13 FTOFW98 FTOF 108 FTOF 1 SUB OFATMC
REYNOLDS PURCHASE L44 P225 DEEDS, 15/6 47.12 
98

 

697 CANTON

15010595.

CANTON 78 THE MILLS SUB L12 P77 PLATS, 15/17 30
104.50

 

691 CANTON

15010596.

CANTON 79 THE MILLS SUB L12 P77 PLATS, 15/17 30
104.50

 

655 CANTON

15010602.

CANTON 85 THE MILLS SUB L12 P77 PLATS, 15/17 30
104.50

 

1032 CONCORD

15010657.

CONCORD 34.5 FT OF 5 130.5 FT OF 108.64 FT OF 2 LYG
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1
P195 PLATS, 15/16 34.50 108.64

 

1038 CONCORD

15010658.

CONCORD 33.50 FT OF 164 FT OF 108.64 FT OF 2 LYG
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1
P195 PLATS, 15/16 33.50 108.64

 

1718 CONCORD

15010696.

CONCORD 44 FT OF 264 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15[16 44 113.12

 

.1724CONCORD

15010697.

CONCORD 30 FT OF 294 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15/16 30 113.12

 

V1732CONCORD

15010698.

CONCORD 30 FT OF 324 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15/16 30 113.12

 



15010699.

CONCORD 30 FT OF 354 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER 8: COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15/16 30 113.12

 

1744 CONCORD

15010700.

CONCORD 30 FT OF 384 FT OF 113.1_2 FT OF 1 LYG 
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15/16 30 113.12

 

1762 CONCORD

15010703.

CONCORD 30 FT OF 720 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15/16 30 113.12

 

1780 CONCORD

 

15010706.

 

CONCORD 30 FT OF 630 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15/16 30 113.12

 

 

Exhibit Page 32 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

1792 CONCORD 15010708. CONCORD 30 FT OF 570 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
81 ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1 P195
FLATS, 15716 30 113.12

1808 CONCORD 15010710. CONCORD 60 FT OF 510 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
81 ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER 81 COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15/16 60 113.12

1820 CONCORD 15010712. CONCORD 30 FT OF 420 FT OF 113.12 FT OF 1 LYG 
81 ADJ CONCORD 66 FT WD WALKER COOPERS SUB L1 P195
PLATS, 15/16 30 113.12

6000 CONCORD 15010947. CONCORD 32&31 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJBELT LINE
SUB L12 P82 PLATS, 15/86 60 116.24A 6974.4 SQ FT

19954 CONCORD 15011219. CONCORD 62 LAURENCE PARK SUB L38 P51 PLATS, 

15/256 40 127
3571 CONCORD 15011667001 CONCORD 1 THRU 18 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ BREITMEYER

SUB NO 2 L30 P76 PLATS, 15/151 282.60 326.04

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7628 GIRARDIN 15012377. GIRARDIN 58 THRU 60 GIRARDIN 8 FOSTERS SUB L15 P46
PLATS. 15/170 90 92

7779 GIRARDIN 15012617. GIRARDIN 25 ALEXANDER GIRARDINS SUB L27 P64
PLATS. 15/165 36 91.25

18468 FILER 15012773. FILER 195 LIVINGSTONE HEIGHTS SUB L35 P60 PLATS, 
15/209 30 110

18820 FILER 15012800. FILER 222 LIVINGSTONE HEIGHTS SUB L35 P60 PLATS, 
15/209 30 110

574 JEFFERSON CT 15013435. JEFFERSON CT 5 FT 385CULLENS SUB L25 P28 PLATS, 
15/11 ALSO ALL THAT ADJ LOTS
18&19 EXC 12.45 FT OF 65.10 FT OF 47.25 FT PLAT OF
MELDRUM FARM 15/274 5 IRREG

561 JEFFERSON CT 15013437. JEFFERSON CT 6 FT 1 2 SCULLENS SUB L25 P28 PLATS, 
15/11 51 47.25

3402 MT ELLIOTT 15013987. MT ELLIOTT 28 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160

3412 MT ELLIOTT 15013989. MT ELLIOTT 26 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160

3416 MT ELLIOTT 15013990. MT ELLIOTT 25 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160 

3424 MT ELLIOTT 15013991. MT ELLIOTT 24 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160 

3442 MT ELLIOTT 15013994. MT ELLIOTT 21 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160 

3446 MT ELLIOTT 15013995. MT ELLIOTT 20 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160

3452 MT ELLIOTT 15013996. MT ELLIOTT 19 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160

3460 MT ELLIOTT 15013997. MT ELLIOTT 18 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30

 

 

 

 

160

Exhibit Page 33 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

3508 MT ELLIOTT 15014003. MT ELLIOTT 12 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160

3514 MT ELLIOTT 15014004. MT ELLIOTT 11 WALKERS SUB L7 P63 PLATS, 15/29 30
160

3810 MT ELLIOTT 15014026. MT ELLIOTT 8 PU LFORD 81 SCHWARTZ SUB L9 P53 PLATS, 
15/133 30 160

3828 MT ELLIOTT 15014028. MT ELLIOTT 5 PULFORD 81 SCHWARTZ SUB L9 P53 PLATS, 
15/133 30 160 

4626 MT ELLIOTT 15014066. MT ELLIOTT 2 MALOW BROS SUB L23 P2 PLATS, 

15/147 30 110

 

5437 PORTER

16000495001

PORTER 66 FT OF 136.53 FT OF 18.P20 PLATS, 16/121 66 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6144 BIVOUAC 16000950. BIVOUAC REAR 38.47 FT OF 22 JEYNES SUB L17 P53
PLATS, 16/54 32 38.55A

4648 TOLEDO 16001063. TOLEDO 20 DASSOWS SUB L12 P5 PLATS, WCR 16/61 30 
131.15 

5949 KOPERNICK 16001539. 5 KOPERNICK 133 WESSON INGERSOLLS SUB L3 P18 PLATS,
16/71 28.89 125

5942 KOPERNICK 16001541. KOPERNICK 79 WESSON INGERSOLLS SUB L3 P18 PLATS,
16/71 30 125

4811 TIREMAN 16001958. 5 TIREMAN 26 10.14 FT 27 KREMERS SUB L15 P6 PLATS, 
16/171 40.14 110

5564 PACIFIC 16002578. PACIFIC 143 ADDITION TO DAILEY PARK L31 P49 PLATS, 
16/186 34 127.50

5320 SPOKANE 16003114. SPOKANE 76 BLK 7 JOSEPH TIREMANS SUB L28 P22 PLATS,
16/178 27.30 120

5838 JOY RD 16004686001 JOY RD 100.45 FT FRONT BG 84.17 FT REAR 532
DAILEY PARK SUB L28 P80 PLATS, 16/185 100.45 IRREG

5200 CHICAGO 16004849. N--w CHICAGO 324 THRU 322 NARDIN PARK SUB L26 P96
PLATS, 16/191 120 120

7600 BURLINGAME 16005446. BU RLINGAME 91 THRU 84 20 FT OF 83 EXC TRIANG PT

BG 18.92 FT ON 5 LINE 81 5 97.06 FT ON LINE MERRITT 
WILLMARTHS SUB L21 P87 PLATS, WCR 16/199 ALSO TRIANG
PT OF 25 BG 0.52 FT ON LINE 81 2.94 FT ON LINE
SAMUEL KENNEDYS SUB L28 P99 PLATS, 16/195 248.08
IRREG

 

 

7501 WEBB 16005542-52 WEBB 4 THRU 2 EXC FREEWAY AS OP EVERGREEN SUB L29
P49 PLATS, 16/203 294.22 IRREG 
7601 WEBB 16005553. WEBB 11 THRU 13 16 THRU 18 25 THRU 27 AND VAC

TUXEDO AVE ADJ AND VAC ALLEY ADJ EXC FREEWAY AS OP
EVERGREEN SUB L29 P49 PLATS, 16/203 297.18 IRREG

 

7515 ELMHURST

16005 744-54

ELMHURST 32 THRU 30 EXC FREEWAY AS OP EVERGREEN
SUB L25 P49 PLATS 16/203 308.32 IRREG JEFFRIES FWY

 

7711 DESOTO

 

 

16006315.

 

5 DE SOTO 330 DICKINSON 81 WHITES SUB L30 P40 PLATS, 
16/252 30 100.69

 

 

Exhibit Page 34 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

2355 16009547. MC 45 FT 25 DASSOWS SUB L12 P5 PLATS, 
16/61 1471 SQ. FT

2058 FERDINAND 16010030. FERDINAND 12 TILDENS SUB L21 P95 PLATS, 16/55 30
140.03

3382 GOLDNER 16010486. GOLDNER 21 STECHER 8L RATHS SUB L4 P66 PLATS, 
16/74 30 146.61

3392 GOLDNER 16010487. GOLDNER 20 STECHER RATHS SUB L4 P66 PLATS, 

16/74 30 146.61
5321 30TH ST 16010801. 30TH 50 THOMPSON SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 

143.61

 

 

 

 

4198 315T ST 16010998.002L 315T 4 SCRIPPS BREARLEYS SUB L6 P61 PLATS, 
16/90 25 143.61

5332 315T ST 16011083. 315T 41 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30 
143.61

5386 313T ST 16011092. 315T 32 THOMPSONS SUB L3 P69 PLATS, 16/98 30
IRREG

5229 315T ST 16011112. 315T 1 HUBBARD DINGWALLS SUB L18 P19 PLATS, 

16/134 33.34 143.61

 

4690 32ND ST

16011918001

THIRTY-SECOND 92 BRUSHS SUB L14 P37 PLATS, 
16/136 30 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4704 32ND ST 16011919. 32ND 94 BRUSHS SUB L14 P37 PLATS, WCR 16/136 30 100

5398 32ND ST 16011981-2 32 ND 6 7 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB. 16 
42 PLATS, 16/99 60 100

5410 32ND ST 16011983. 32ND 5 BLK 9-FYFE BARBOUR 81 WARREN SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

5403 32ND ST 16011992. 32ND 41 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

5303 32ND ST 16012009. 32ND 24 BLK 8-FYFE BARBOUR WARREN SUB L16 P42
PLATS, 16/99 30 100

4699 32ND ST 16012056. 32ND 52 BRUSHS SUB L14 P37 PLATS, WCR 16/136 30 
100

5229 33RD ST 16012455. 33RD ST 44 BLK 12-FYFE BARBOUR WARRENS SUB L16
P42 PLATS, 16/99 33.22 100

5555 MCGRAW 16013104. JUNCTION 46 THRU 1 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ BLK 7-FYFE
BARBOUR 8: WARRENS SUB L16 P42 PLATS, 16/99
690.61 IRREG

5605 JUNCTION 16013114. JUNCTION 15&16 BLK 3-FYFE BARBOUR 81 WARRENS SUB

L16 P42 PLATS, 16/99 60 100

4720 35TH ST 16013687. 35TH ST 1 BLK K-BRUSHS SUB L16 P24 PLATS, 16/87
36.08 100

6326 COLFAX 16013921. COLFAX 58 BLK 7-ROBERT GRINDLEYS SUB L15 P32
PLATS, 16/100 30 115

4513 CAMPBELL 16014662. CAMPBELL 86 THRU 105 AND VAC ALLEY BET SD LOTS

 

 

SUB OF PT OF 171 L12 P24 PLATS, 16/85 305.45 
292.27

 

Exhibit Page 35 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

5855 VANCOUVER 16014814. EPWORTH 5 23.70 FT 42 HOLDEN RIDGE SUB L19 P72
PLATS, 16/181 23.70 154.84A

8732 EPWORTH 16014861. EPWORTH 2.57 FT 640 DAILEY PARK SUB L29 P80 PLATS,
16/185 2.57 142.60A

5991 EPWORTH 16014994. EPWORTH 85 BLK 1] WILLIAMS SUB L22 P34 PLATS,
16/105 30 146.53A

4040 WESSON 16015323. WESSON 11 SUB OF PT OF NO 171 L12 P24 PLATS, 
16/85 30 135.65

4046 WESSON 16015324. WESSON 13 SUB OF PT OF NO 171 L12 P24 PLATS, 
16/85 30 135.65

4149 WESSON 16015488. WESSON PLATS, 16/84 25 92.40

4492 MILITARY 16016046. MILITARY 30 SCRIPPS SUB L6 P75 PLATS, 16/150 29 
150

4498 MILITARY 16016047. MILITARY 31 SCRIPPS SUB L6 P75 PLATS, 16/150 29 
150

4502 MILITARY 16016048. MILITARY 32 SCRIPPS SUB L6 P75 PLATS, 16/150 29 
150

8386 CARBONDALE 16016576. CARBONDALE 144 SCRIPPS HOLDEN AVE SUB L19 P67
PLATS, 16/210 30 94

8070 RANGOON 16018639. RANGOON 137 HARRAHS TIREMAN AVE SUB L30 P85 PLATS,
16/208 30 100

20016 SANTA ROSA 16020314. SANTA ROSA DR 129 7.5 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ ZEIGENS
WARWICK PARK SUB L37 P47 PLATS, 16/280 35 107.5

20429 SANTA ROSA 16020386. SANTA ROSA DR 107 KENILWORTH PARK SUB L31 P82
PLATS, 16/277 30 100

12056 MONICA 16021003-5 MONICA 82 THRU 84 GREEN SUB L37 P31 PLATS, WCR
16/238 105 108

17372 MONICA 16021306. MONICA 101J LEE BAKER COS LIVERNOIS SUB L44 P53
PLATS, 16/284 38 111

8090 PRAIRIE 16022476. PRAIRIE 247 HERBERT BAKERS GREENFIELD GARDENS SUB
L31 P15 PLATS, 16/209 30 104

15930 PRAIRIE 16022757. PRAIRIE 153 PURITAN HOMES SUB L34 P81 PLATS, 
16/303 111 

16591 PRAIRIE 16023273. PRAIRIE 23 EDISON HEIGHTS SUB L34 P70 PLATS, 
16/299 30 114.92A

2853 EWALD CIRCLE 16023997.005 EWALD CIRCLE PART OF 292 THRU 294 DESC AS FOLS BEG

 

 

AT CORNER LOT 293 TH 67D 12M 505 22.59 FT TH 
75D 31M 405 25.77 FT TH 76D 12M 105 31.92 FT TH 
74D 51M 255 19.92 FT TH SLY 16.85 FT ALG ELY LINE SAID
LOTS TH 75D 22M 405 51.10 FT TH 76D 55M 305 
25.86 FT TH 74D 22M 405 23.06 FT TH NLY 20 FT ALG
WLY LINE SAID LOTS TO AMENDED PLAT OF 
OAKMANS TURNER 8: FORD HIGHWAY SUB L44 P96 PLATS, 
16/313 20 IRREG

 

 

Exhibit Page 36 of 67

 

Address

Parcel ID

Legal Description

 

10530 BRYDEN

16024657.002L

BRYDEN 20 FT OF 30 31 WILLMARTHS SUB
L21 P87 PLATS, 16/199 50 100

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9020 CENTRAL 16024903. CENTRAL 124 1235TOEPELS GREENFIELD HIGHLANDS
SUBL31 P1 PLATS, 16/197 60 115

16604 SAN JUAN 16025524. SAN JUAN 385 386 GARDEN ADDITION NO 2 L14 P59 PLATS,
16/295 60 100

16610 SAN JUAN 16025525. SAN JUAN DR 387 GARDEN ADDITION NO 2 L14 P59 PLATS,
16/295 30 100

16261 TU LLER 16026990. TULLER 196 GARDEN ADDITION L13 P90 PLATS, 
16/305 30 100

18240 SANTA 16027592. SANTA BARBARA DR 760 CANTERBURY GARDENS NO 2 L45

BARBARA P86 PLATS, 16/327 40 125

16643 TURNER 16027957. TURNER 118 GARDEN ADDITION NO 2 L14 P59 PLATS, 
16/295 30 100

15362 16028279. WOODINGHAM DR 313 MULBERRY HILL SUB L33 P63 PLATS,

16,1261 35 116

16148 16028339. WOODINGHAM GARDEN

WOODINGHAM ADDITION L13 P90 PLATS, 16/305 35 110

16600 16028373. WOODINGHAM DR 45 GARDEN ADDITION NO 2 L14 P59

WOODINGHAM PLATS, 16/295 30 100

16716 16028391. WOODINGHAM GARDEN ADDITION

WOODINGHAM NO 2 L14 P59 PLATS, 16/295 34 100

16720 16028392. WOODINGHAM GARDEN

WOODINGHAM ADDITION NO 2 L14 P59 PLATS, 16/295 34 100

16571 16028856. WOODINGHAM DR 40 GARDEN ADDITION L13 P90 PLATS,

WOODINGHAM 16/305 30 94.62A

16557 16028858. WOODINGHAM DR 38 GARDEN ADDITION L13 P90 PLATS,

WOODINGHAM 16/305 30 94.80A

16217 16028874. WOODINGHAM DR 19 GARDEN ADDITION L13 P90 PLATS,

WOODINGHAM 16/305 30 96.47A

16211 16028875. WOODINGHAM DR 18 GARDEN ADDITION L13 P90 PLATS,

WOODINGHAM 16/305 30 96.55A

16153 16028885. WOODINGHAM DR 8 GARDEN ADDITION L13 P90 PLATS,

WOODINGHAM 30 97.26A

15359 GREENLAWN 16029940. GREENLAWN 97 ABERLES SUB L16 P54 PLATS, 
16/260 30 100 

14535 GREENLAWN 16029972. GREENLAWN 686 OAKFORD SUB L35 P56 PLATS, 
16/246 30 105.80

14529 GREENLAWN 16029973. GREENLAWN 685 OAKFORD SUB L35 P56 PLATS, 
16/246 30 105.80

14523 GREENLAWN 16029974. GREENLAWN 684 OAKFORD SUB L35 P56 PLATS, 
16/246 23.41 IRREG

14526 ROSELAWN 16030266. ROSELAWN 672 OAKFORD SUB L35 P56 PLATS, 
16/246 23.93 IRREG

14532 ROSELAWN 16030267. ROSELAWN 671 OAKFORD SUB L35 P56 PLATS, 

 

 

16/246 30 105.80

 

Exhibit Page 37 of67

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
14538 ROSELAWN 16030268. ROSELAWN 670 OAKFORD SUB L35 P56 PLATS, 
16/246 30 105.80
14066 CHERRYLAWN 16032718. CHERRYLAWN 235 OAKMAN-WALSH-WESTON SUB L50 P48

PLATS, 16/349 35 100.28

 

15458 WISCONSIN

16034699-707

WISCONSIN 9 FT ON LINE BG 13.2 FT ON LINE 233
232 BERRY PARK SUB L35 P81 PLATS, 16/259 44 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18000 INDIANA 16035696. INDIANA 291 SEYMOUR 81 TROESTERS LOYOLA PARK SUB
L45 P41 PLATS, 16/322 41.4 IRREG 

12368 KENTUCKY 16036326. KENTUCKY 82 GREENFIELD PARK SUB L32 P9 PLATS, 
16/233 40 100

14010 KENTUCKY 16036415. KENTUCKY 59 OAKMAN-WALSH-WESTON SUB L50 P48
PLATS, 16/349 35 100

18424 WASHBURN 16039351. WASHBURN 34 DWYERS MARYGROVE SUB L51 P93 PLATS,
16/381 35 106

16145 PINEHURST 16044293. PINEHURST 16981170 EXC 48.60 FT THEREOF
NORTHWESTERN PURITAN SUB L46 P31 PLATS, 16/383
13.86 IRREG

13933 PINEHURST 16044410. PINEHURST 134 RESTMORE HOMES SUB L33 P39 PLATS, 
16/344 35 101

7736 FOREST 17000577. FOREST 16 HARMONS SUB L16 P65 PLATS, 

17/91 30 104.10

 

7700 FOREST

17000582001

5 FOREST 11&10 HARMONS SUB L16 P65 PLATS, 
17/91 62 104.10

 

 

 

7600 FOREST 17000583. 5 FOREST 1 BLK 5 VAN HUSANS SUB L11 P65 PLATS, 
17/67 118 31.85

7715 FOREST 17000587. FOREST 7 HARMONS SUB L16 P65 PLATS, 
17/91 30 100.37A

8624 MEDBURY 17000733. GRATIOT 136.27 FT OF 5 221.GRATIOT AVE OF ADJ FISCHER AVE EXC THAT PT
DESC AS FOLS BEG AT INTSEC LINE GRATIOT 120 FT WD 
LINE FISCHER 60 FT WD TH 26D 27M 136.27 FT TH 
28D 03M 85.32D 46M
405 38.14 FT TH 27D 51M 50.01 FT TH 620 09M 
48.17/126 67.14 IRREG

 

7630 EDSEL FORD

17001042-99

EDSEL FORD 411 THRU 442 AND VAC ALLEYS ADJ EXC
EXPWAY AS OP WM TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 17/104
288.38 IRREG

 

 

8105 EDSEL FORD 17001114. EDSEL FORD 25.20 FT 37 MEIERS SUB L15 P78 PLATS, 
17/101 25.20 112
8408 GEORGIA 17001387. GEORGIA 5 FT 41 40 WEBER MARTINS SUB L35 P52

PLATS, 17/442 35 119.75A

 

8241 MOLENA

17002452-73

MOLENA 175 THRU 154 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, WCR
17/450 665.17 168.14A

 

 

 

8576 LYFORD

 

17002482.

 

LYFORD 146 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PIKTS, 17/450 30?
115

 

Exhibit Page 38 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

8564 LYFORD 17002484. 5 LYFORD 144 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, 17/450 30
115

8540 LYFORD 17002487-8 LYFORD 15 FT 141 140 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, 
17/450 46.51 115

8534 LYFORD 17002489. LYFORD 139 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, 17/450 30
115

8528 LYFORD 17002490. 5 LYFORD 138 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, 17/450 30
115

8516 LYFORD 17002492. 5 LYFORD 136 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, 17/450 30
115

8581 LYFORD 17002650. LYFORD 58 10 FT 57 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, 
17/450 40 105

8572 LEANDER 17002662. LEANDER 26 FT 47 3 FT 46 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS,
17/450 29 105

8554 LEANDER 17002665. 5 LEANDER 29 FT 44 15 FT 43 BOLTON SUB L37 P36
PLATS, 17/450 44 105

8534 LEANDER 17002668. LEANDER 41 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, 17/450 30
105

8488 LEANDER 17002676. LEANDER 33 BOLTON SUB L37 P36 PLATS, 17/450 30
105

8186 LEANDER 17002723. 5 LEANDER 17 RIVARD MANOR SUB L56 P34 PLATS, 
17/526 32 105

8485 LEANDER 17002821. LEANDER 43 COLQUITTS SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
30 110

8567 LEANDER 17002833. LEANDER 29 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
30 110

8575 LEANDER 17002834-5 LEANDER 28&27 COLQUITTS SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 
17/452 60 110

8599 LEANDER 17002837-8 LEANDER 25&24 COLQUITTS SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 
17/452 60 110

8605 LEANDER 17002839. LEANDER 23 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
30 110

8623 LEANDER 17002842. LEANDER 20 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
30 110

8598 KENNEY 17002844. 5 KENNEY 97 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
40.44 IRREG

8508 KENNEY 17002859. 5 KENNEY 82 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
30 110

8196 KENNEY 17002909. 5 KENNEY 96 KENNEYS SUB L33 P4 PLATS, 17/451 30 
110

8499 KENNEY 17003007. KENNEY 114 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 
17/452 30 119.47A

8515 KENNEY 17003010. KENNEY 111 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
30 119.46A

8527 KENNEY 17003012. KENNEY 109 COLQUITTS SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452

 

 

30 119.44A

 

Exhibit 4 Page 39 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

8559 KENNEY 17003017. KENNEY 104 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
30 119.41A

8571 KENNEY 17003019. KENNEY 102 SUB L37 P40 PLATS, 17/452
30 119.4A

8541 MONTLIEU 17003190-1 MONTLIEU 28 27 VAN DYKE HEIGHTS SUB L40 P95 PLATS,
17/481 60 97.08A

8500 ELGIN 17003199. ELGIN 13 EXC 6 FT CUMMISKEY SUB L43 P100 PLATS, 
17/488 35 125A 

8430 ELGIN 17003209. ELGIN 23 EXC 6 FT CUMMISKEY SUB L43 P100 PLATS, 
17/488 35 126.68A

8400 ELGIN 17003213. 5 ELGIN 27 EXC 6 FT CUMMISKEY SUB L43 P100 PLATS, 
17/488 35 127.38A

8477 ELGIN 17003322. ELGIN 95 ELLEN SMITHS SUB L36 P64 PLATS, 
17/454 30 102.37A

8464 WISNER 17003342. 5 WISNER 68 ELLEN SMITHS SUB L36 P64 PLATS, 

7 17/454 30 95

8416 DU BAY 17003471. DUBAY 15 ELLEN SMITHS SUB L36 P64 PLATS, 
17/454 30 90

8410 DUBAY 17003472. DUBAY 14 ELLEN SMITHS SUB L36 P64 PLATS, 
17/454 30 90

8350 DUBAY 17003480-2 DUBAY 5 THRU 3 ELLEN SMITHS SUB L36 P64 PLATS, 
17/454 90 90

8332 DUBAY 17003484. 5 DUBAY 1 ELLEN SMITHS SUB L36 P64 PLATS, 
17/454 30 90

8367 DUBAY 17003575. DUBAY 25 105 MARSHALLS SUB L42 P68 PLATS, 
17/485 30 102

8385 DUBAY 17003578. DUBAY 22 105 MARSHALLS SUB L42 P68 PLATS, 
17/485 30 102

8391 DUBAY 17003579. DUBAY 21 105 MARSHALLS SUB L42 P68 PLATS, 
17/485 30 102

8388 ALMONT 17003598. ALMONT 23 OLD COLONY COS FRENCH RD SUB L62 P82
PLATS, 17539 35 100

8374 ALMONT 17003600. 5 ALMONT 25 OLD COLONY COS FRENCH RD SUB L62 P82

PLATS, 17/539 35 100 I

8330 ALMONT 17003607. ALMONT 15 FT 17 18 SUMMER PARK SUB L36 P43 PLATS,
17/456 45 100

8355 ALMONT 17003692. ALMONT 2 OLD COLONY COS FRENCH RD SUB L62 P82
PLATS, 17/539 35 100

8200 DOBEL 17003915. 5 DOBEL 27] BARRY NUERNBERGS SUB L60 P58 PLATS,
17/535 54.34 IRREG

8271 DOBEL 17003980. DOBEL 6 FT 16 15J BARRY NUERNBERGS SUB L60
P58 PLATS, 17/535 41 110

8226 NUERNBERG 17004020. NUERNBERG 61J NUERNBERGS SUB N0 1 L43 P42 PLATS,
17/487 30 120

8215 NUERNBERG 17004044. NUERNBERG 67 ADD TO MT OLIVET HEIGHTS JOHN 

NUERNBERGS SUB L32 P55 PLATS, 17/460 30 120

 

Exhibit Page 40 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
8208 TUMEY 17004066. 5 TUMEY 17 ADD TO MT OLIVET HEIGHTS JOHN 
NUERNBERGS SUB L32 P55 PLATS, 17/460 30 110
8219 TUMEY 17004104. TUMEY 19 MT OLIVET HEIGHTS NUERNBERGS SUB L28
P29 PLATS, 17/461 40 110
8042 MCNICHOLS 17004227-8 MC NICHOLS RD 21 THRU 23 1 FT 24J NUERNBERGS

SUB L22 P39 PLATS, 17/462 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5952 BURNS 17006358-70 BURNS 14 THRU 1 BLK 15 STEPHENS ELM PARK SUB L19 P12
PLATS, 177125 424.75 110

2969 BURNS 17006621. BURNS 38 THRU 31 20 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ ASSESSORS
PLAT OF PT OF PC527 AND 180 L66 P56 PLATS, 17/547

526.36 IRREG

5082 SENECA 17006713.004L SENECA 603.28 FT OF 110 FT OF BLK 22COOK FARM
SUB OF PT OF CS 153,155 180 BETW FOREST GRATIOT
L19 P73 PLATS, 17/116 603.28 110

5177 SENECA 17006956. SENECA 570.28 FT OF 615.28 FT OF 110 FT OF BLK
23COOK FARM SUB OF PT OF CS 153,155 180 BETW
FOREST GRATIOT L19 P73 PLATS, 17/116 570.28 
110

5405 IROQUOIS 17007365. IROQUOIS 9 CURRYS COOK FARM SUB L25 P30 PLATS, 
177200 30 110

5186 SEMINOLE 17007759. SEMINOLE 28 BEAMER BRYANT SUB L30 P5 PLATS, 
17/390 34 110

5344 SEMINOLE 17007767. SEMINOLE 34 15 FT 35 CURRY COOK FARM SUB L25 P30

PLATS, 17/200 45 110

6100 SEMINOLE 17007831. SEMINOLE 21 BLK 9 STEPHENS ELM PARK SUB L19 P12
PLATS, 17/125 30 110

5800 VAN DYKE 17009442. VAN DYKE 4 SHELLY SIMPSONS SUB L16 P92 PLATS, 
17/141 28.25 103.56

2960 SEYBURN 17010626. SEYBURN 44 ABERLE ZUG DEVOGELAERS SUB L26 P78
PLATS, 17/231 34 79.95

2971 SEYBURN 17010923. SEYBURN 12 ABERLE ZUG DE VOGELAERS SUB L26 P78
PLATS, 177231 30 107.67A

1065 SEYBU RN 17011027. SEYBURN 1/2 166 167 WESSONS SUB L16 P91 PLATS, 
17/14 52.50 125 

1100 BALDWIN 17011078. BALDWIN 34 FT 223 1 FT 224 WESSONS SUB L16 P91
PLATS, 17/14 35 125

1451 BALDWIN 17011736. BALDWIN 244 MOSES FIELDS SUB L8 P37 PLATS, 
17/40 30 103

537 TOWNSEND 17012580. TOWNSEND 148 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 
17/13 30 100

532 SHERIDAN 17012584. SHERIDAN 94 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17/13
30 100

536 SHERIDAN 17012585. SHERIDAN 95 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17/13
30 100

544 SHERIDAN 17012586. SHERIDAN 96 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17/13

 

 

30 100

 

 

Exhibit Page 41 0f 67

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

548 SHERIDAN 17012587. SHERIDAN 97 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17/13
30 100

554 SHERIDAN 17012588. SHERIDAN 98 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17/13
30 100

558 SHERIDAN 17012589. SHERIDAN 99 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17/13
30 100

566 SHERIDAN 17012590. SHERIDAN 100 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17/13

30 100

 

6230 SHERIDAN

17013069-78

SHERIDAN 45.7 FT ON LINE 36 19 FT 0N LINE OF
16381164 WM TAITS SUB L16 P87 PLATS, 17/104 45.7
IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5569 SHERIDAN 17013167. SHERIDAN 51 GALLAGHERS SUB L44 P49 PLATS, 
17/489 41.25 110.08

4409 SHERIDAN 17013240-1 SHERIDAN 160&159 SCHWARTZS SUB L15 P87 PLATS, 
17766 61.85 110.37

462 FIELD 17013487. FIELD 36 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATs, 17713 30 
125

468 FIELD 17013488. FIELD 37 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17713 30 
125

478 FIELD 17013489. FIELD 38 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17713 30 
125

482 FIELD 17013490. FIELD 39 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATS, 17713 30 
125

602 FIELD 17013492. FIELD 41 2 FT 42 FIELDS SUB L4 P10 PLATs, 
17713 32 125 

19666 ALBION 17014293. ALBION 5 FT 131 132 SUB L45 P25

PLATS, 17/504 40 107

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18400 TEPPERT 17014932-48 TEPPERT 213 THRU 180 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ SHADY LAWN
SUB NO 1 L45 P61 PLATS, 177514 606.80 240

19224 BLACKMOOR 17016150. BLACKMOOR 94 SEVEN MILE OUTER DRIVE SUB L61 P41
PLATS, 177536 35 101

13845 FRENCH RD 17016435. FRENCH RD 15 NUERNBERGS FRENCH RD SUB L59 P72
PLATS, 177534 40 120

12829 FRENCH RD 17016458. FRENCH RD 8 J05 MARSHALLS SUB L42 P68 PLATS, 
177485 22.4 98.1A

12437 FRENCH RD 17016466-7 FRENCH RD 24&25 ELLEN SMITHS SUB L36 P64 PLATS,
177454 53.36 100 

6337 CARTRIDGE 18000688. CARTRIDGE 27 DANIEL SCOTTENS RE-SUB L20 P67 PLATS, 
187150 30 141.5

7336 SENATOR 18001176. SENATOR 3 FT 224 225 FERNDALE AVE SUB L30 P56
PLATS, 187349 35 100

6936 WALDO 18002005-11 WALDO 20 FT 29 28 THRU 24 25 FT 23 WILLIAMS 

FRENCHS SUB L17 P84 PLATS, 18/215 195 112

 

 

6325 PELOUZE

 

18002630.

 

PELOUZE 116 WESSON INGERSOLLS SUB L5 P47 PLATS, 
18/464 30 116.62

 

 

Exhibit Page 42 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

6500 HORATIO 18002689. HORATIO 57 WESSON INGERSOLLS SUB L5 P47 PLATS, 
18/464 30 115

6363 GLADYS 18002999. 5 GLADYS 143 HENRY A SCHILLERS SUB L24 P45 PLATS, 
18f249 30 125

8022 SARENA 18003900. SARENA 59 DOTYS SUB L18 P76 PLATS, WCR 18/373 30 
102.88

6950 SARENA 18003959. SARENA 217 WM HOLMES FRANK A VERNORS SUB L16
P73 PLATS, 18/366 103.23 IRREG

6910 SARENA 18003961. SARENA 89 WM HOLMES FRANK A VERNORS SUB L16
P73 PLATS, 18/366 30 IRREG

6902 SARENA 18003962. SARENA 88 WM HOLMES FRANK A VERNORS SUB L16
P73 PLATS, 18/366 30 IRREG

6850 SARENA 18003963. SARENA 87 WM HOLMES FRANK A VERNORS SUB L16
P73 PLATS, 18/366 30 IRREG

6860 SARENA 18003964. SARENA 86 WM HOLMES FRANK A VERNORS SUB L16
P73 PLATS, 18/366 100.43 IRREG

10410 ELMIRA 18006400. ELMIRA 912 TAYLORS SOUTHLAWN SUB NO 3 L34 P27

PLATS, 18,381 40 100

 

10600 PARK TERRACE

18006733-41

PARK TERRACE 74 20 FT 75 PARK MANOR L33 P30 PLATS,
18/395 80.80 IRREG

 

 

 

1415 LIVERNOIS 18007168. LIVERNOIS 14 DANIEL SCOTTENS RE-SUB L20 P67 PLATS, 
18/150 30 126

6356 REGULAR 18007235. INFANTRY 1105 DANIEL SCOTTENS RE-SUB L3 P32 PLATS, 
18/151 30 135.78

6408 REGULAR 18007318. INFANTRY 54&55 CLARKS SUB L4 P24 PLATS, 18/164

60.3 IRREG

 

CASG RAIN

18007946.001

CASGRAIN 15 FT 85 CLARKS SUB L4 P24 PLATS, 
181164 15 152

 

1758 CASGRAIN

18007946.002L

CASGRAIN 15 FT 85 CLARKS SUB L4 P24 PLATS, 
18/164 15 152

 

 

 

 

 

1760 CASGRAIN 18007947. CASGRAIN 86 CLARKS SUB L4 P24 PLATS, 18/164 30 
152

1199 LEWERENZ 18008410. LEWERENZ 23 ANTON MICHENFELDERS SUB L13 P100
PLATS, 18/269 30 143.62

527 POST 18008639. 5 POST 45 LARNED DUCHARME SCHMITS SUB L11 P77
PLATS, 18/47 35 112

703 GREEN 18008850. GREEN 67 FAULCONER BOYNTONS SUB L19 P85 PLATS,
18/45 30 109.9

749 COTTRELL 18009158. COTTRELL 93 MC MILLANS SUB L13 P55 PLATS, 18/44

33 108

 

443 SOLVAY

18009372001

SOLVAY 57 FT 281 MC MILLANS SUB L23 P34 PLATS, 
18/278 37.25 57

 

2580 CENTRAL

18009 691.002L

CENTRAL .PLATS, 18/202 16.5 190

 

2408 RIEDEN

 

18009996.

 

RIEDEN 110 RIEDENS SUB L29 P77 PLATS, 18/201 30
122.03A

 

Exhibit Page 43 of 67

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
2339 STAIR 18010126. STAIR 135 BURNS SUB L14 P65 PLATS, 18/195 30 
110
3801 MARTIN 18011186. MARTIN 9 PALMS SUB L22 P40 PLATS, 18/214 30 

102.32A

 

4957 BRADEN

18011316.001

BRADEN 15 FT62 MC DONALDS PEERLESS SUB L44 P63
PLATS, 18/425 15 134.3A

 

4955 BRADEN

18011316.002L

BRADEN 15 FT 62 MC DONALDS PEERLESS SUB L44 P63
PLATS, 18/425 15 134.3A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4641 51ST ST 18011761. FIFTY FIRST 169 THRU 165 CONRAD CLIPPERTS SUB NO 2
L28 P33 PLATS, 18/223 155 111

5837 TARNOW 18012524. TARNOW 49 THRU 51 HARRAHS WESTERN SUBDN L36 P69
PLATS, 18/193 90 100

5710 PROCTOR 18012680. PROCTOR 455 SEYMOUR TROESTERS MICHIGAN AVE SUB
L28 P86 PLATS, 18/346 40.14 89.86A

5712 FLORIDA 18012932. FLORIDA 188 SEYMOUR TROESTERS MICHIGAN AVE SUB
L28 P86 PLATS, 18/346 40.14 90 

6145 FLORIDA 18012993. FLORIDA 128 SEYMOUR TROESTERS MICHIGAN AVE SUB
L28 P86 PLATS, 18/346 30 90

7833 WETHERBY 18013122. WETHERBY 57 DOVERCOURT PARK SUB L34 P89 PLATS, 
18/371 34 110

7705 BRYDEN 18013911. BRYDEN 129 GEO SASS SUB L31 P48 PLATS, 18/374
30 100

8117 NORTHLAWN 18014850. NORTHLAWN 624] FALES SUB L35 P25 PLATS, 
18/375 35 103.01

11652 WASHBURN 18016639. WASHBURN 28 FT 219 LYNHURST SUB L32 P60 PLATS, 
18/392 28 IRREG

12180 MENDOTA 18017214. MENDOTA 1 PARK MANOR L33 P30 PLATS, WCR 18/395
115.8 IRREG

11405 MENDOTA 18017268. MEN DOTA 963 TAYLORS SOUTHLAWN SUB NO 3 L34

P27 PLATS, 18/381 35 124.25

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8134 MANOR 18018025-42 MANOR 1859 THRU 1863 1787 THRU 1804 AND VAC ALLEYS
ADJ ROBERT OAKMAN LAND COS AVIATION FIELD SUB NO 3
L49 P56 PLATS, 18/432 

8043 MANOR 18018534. MANOR ROBERT OAKMAN LAND CO AVIATION FIELD
SUB NO 4 L58 P48 PLATS, 18/459 166.42 IRREG

9362 NAVARRE 19000303. NAVARRE 26 BLK 7 YEMANS 81 SPRAGUES SUB L13 P11
PLATS, 19/29 30 97 

9354 NAVARRE 19000304. 5 NAVARRE 25 BLK 7 YEMANS 8: SPRAGU ES SUB L13 P11
PLATS, 19/29 30 97

9373 NAVARRE 19000316001 NAVARRE 15 FT OF 6BLK 8 YEMANS 81 SPRAGUES SUB
L13 P11 PLATS, 19/29 15 97

8827 VERNOR 19000375. VERNOR HWY 4 WM WESSONS SUB L13 P61 PLATS, 
19/45 30 105

8833 VERNOR 19000376. VERNOR HWY 5 WM WESSONS SUB L13 P61 PLATS, 

 

 

 

19/45 30 105

 

Exhibit Page 44 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

8839 VERNOR 19000377. VERNOR HWY 6 WM WESSONS SUB L13 P61 PLATS, 
19f45 30 105

8845 VERNOR 19000378. VERNOR HWY 7 WM WESSONS SUB L13 P61 PLATS, 
19/45 30 105

8863 VERNOR 19000381. VERNOR HWY 10 WM WESSONS SUB L13 P61 PLATS, 
19/45 30 105

8869 VERNOR 19000382. VERNOR HWY 11 WM WESSONS SUB L13 P61 PLATS, 
19/45 30 105

9950 SHOEMAKER 19001398. SHOEMAKER 55 THRU 52 BLK 2 ALBERT HESSELBACHER 
JOS VISGERS SUB L16 P74 PLATS, 19/80 153.08 IRREG

9100 MAY 19001514. MAY 167 ALFRED LOWS GRATIOT AVE SUB L17 P69
PLATS, 19/418 46.3 100

6590 HURLBUT 19002080. 61 THRU 58 COOPERS SUB L26 P42 PLATS, 
19/413 120 163.83A

10341 STERRITT 19002096. STERRITT 38 COOPERS SUB L26 P42 PLATS, WCR 19/413 30

7 154.61A 

10357 STERRITT 19002099. STERRITT 41 COOPERS SUB L26 P42 PLATS, WCR 19/413 30
148.43A

10525 STERRITT 19002114. STERRITT 56 COOPERS SUB L26 P42 PLATS, WCR 19/413
53.96 IRREG

9009 BESSEMORE 19002256. BESSEMORE 19 FT OF 100 BESSENGER MOORE
GRATIOT AVE SUB L26 P55 PLATS, 19/422 19 100

10240 TRAVERSE 19003131. TRAVERSE 303 FAIRMOUNT PARK SUB L16 P99 PLATS, 
19/415 42.69 IRREG

10234 TRAVERSE 19003132. 5 TRAVERSE 304 FAIRMOUNT PARK SUB L16 P99 PLATS, 

7 197415 30 IRREG 
9368 TRAVERSE 19003216-26 TRAVERSE 388 THRU 397 18 FT 398 FAIRMOUNT PARK

SUB L16 P99 PLATS, 19/415 318 115

 

10039 MARCUS

19003776-7

GRACE 428143 ALFRED LOWS GRATIOT AVE SUB L17 P69
PLATS, 19/418 73.4 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9100 MILNER 19003805001 MILNER 26.60 FT ON LINE BG 23.10 FT ON LINE 44
ALFRED LOWS GRATIOT AVE SUB L17 P69 PLATS, 
19/418 26.6 IRREG

9110 MILNER 19003806. MILNER 28 FT OF 45 ALFRED LOWS GRATIOT AVE SUB
L17 P69 PLATS, 19/418 28 100

9201 MILNER 19003825. 294 EDGEWOOD SUB L15 P83 PLATS, 

19/416 26.2 IRREG 

9300 ARMOUR 19003876. ARMOUR 299 EDGEWOOD SUB L15 P83 PLATS, 
19/416 28.93 IRREG

9306 ARMOUR 19003877. ARMOUR 298 EDGEWOOD SUB L15 P83 PLATS, 
19/416 30 100

9742 EDGEWOOD 19003940. CLARION 93&94 ALFRED LOWS GRATIOT AVE SUB L17
P69 PLATS, 19/418 60 100

9162 CULVER 19003994. CULVER 112 ALFRED LOWS GRATIOT AVE SUB L17 P69

 

 

 

PLATS, 19/418 30 100

 

Exhibit Page 45 of 67

 

Address

Parcel ID

Legal Description

 

6661 RAYMOND

19004069.002L

RAYMOND 3 FT 415 414 BESSENGER MOORES
GRATIOT AVE SUB L26 P55 PLATS, 19/422 ALL THAT PT
OF LYG 5 OF SD LOT 414 ROBERT WALKERS SUB L25 P56
PLATS, 19/414 32 100.10

 

 

 

9165 VINTON 19004119. VINTON 156 ALFRED LOWS GRATIOT AVE SUB L17 P69
PLATS, 19/418 30 100

5182 HURLBUT 19004488. HURLBUT 80 FT 27 CADILLAC HEIGHTS SUB L31 P37
PLATS, 19/403 30 88.27

4282 CADILLAC 19005039. CADILLAC AVE 10 FT 50 49 MACK 81 CADILLAC AVE SUB

L16 P27 PLATS, 19/146 40 137

 

5942 CADILLAC

19005159-62

CADILLAC 13 THRU 10 10 FT 98149 48 THRU 46 5 FT 45
AND VAC ALLEY ADJ BESSENGER 81 MOORES CADILLAC AVE
SUB NO 2 L27 P69 PLATS, 19/149 130 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"?1.280 19005488. 193 BRAN DONS SUB L9 P32 
19/32 50 115

1292 19005489. 192 BRANDONS SUB L9 P32 
19/32 50 115

1302 19005490. 191 BRANDONS SUB L9 P32 
19/32 50 115

1314 19005491. 190 BRANDONS SUB L9 P32 
19/32 50 115

1535 19005495. 185 BRANDONS SUB L9 P32 
19/32 50 115

2175 19005514. 153 BRANDONS SUB L9 P32 
19/32 50 115

2186 19005515. 152 BRANDONS SUB L9 P32 
19/32 50 115

1583 19005103. 212 BRANDONS SUB L9 P32 PLATS, WCR

19/32 50 103.7A

 

1920 MCCLELLAN

19006668?70

MC CLELLAN 8 THRU 10 BLK 5 YEMANS 81 SPRAGUES SUB
L13 P11 PLATS, 19/29 90 118

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3908 MCCLELLAN 19006766. MC CLELLAN 348133 DE VOGELAER 81 WEYHERS SUB L13 P60
PLATS, 19/83 60 114

4500 MCCLELLAN 19006802. MC CLELLAN 9818 BLK 16 SPRAGUE 81 VISGERS SUB L15 P40
19/88 56.25 100

5026 MCCLELLAN 19006839. MC CLELLAN 5 BLK 11 SPRAGUE 81 VISGERS SUB L15 P40
PLATS, 19/88 30 100

9171 MCCLELLAN 19006979. MC CLELLAN 225 ALFRED LOWS GRATIOT AVE SUB L17
P69 PLATS, 19/418 30 100

3401 MCCLELLAN 19007267. MC CLELLAN 1812 STOEPELS SUB L16 P94 PLATS, 
19/51 60 112

5985 BELVIDERE 19007724. BELVIDERE 160 JOS VISGERS GRATIOT AVE SUB L18 P84
PLATS, 19/109 61.49 IRREG

1573 BELVIDERE 19008029. BELVIDERE 23 MILLERS SUB L18 P73 PLATS, WCR 19/170

 

 

30 112

 

Exhibit Page 46 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
5928 HOLCOMB 19008381. HOLCOMB 11 JOHN FOXS SUB L17 P79 PLATS, 
19/111 30 124
5934 HOLCOMB 19008382. HOLCOMB 10 JOHN FOXS SUB L17 P79 PLATS, 
197111 30 124
5940 HOLCOMB 19008383. HOLCOMB 9 JOHN FOXS SUB L17 P79 PLATS, 

19/111 30 124

 

5956 HOLCOMB

19008386001

HOLCOMB ALL THAT PART OF 6 JOHN FOXS SUB L17 P79
PLATS, DESC AS FOLS BEG ATS COR OF LOT6TH 
28D 14M 78.63D 56M 
21.15 FT TH 26D 04M 24.65 FT TH 28D 14M 37.50 FT TH
61D 46M 22.60 FT TO PTE OF BEG 19/111 21.15 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3457 HOLCOMB 19008752?3 HOLCOMB 52 ROHNS SUB L14 P17 PLATS, WCR 19/49 30 

108
I 3451 HOLCOMB 19008754. HOLCOMB 51 ROHNS SUB L14 P17 PLATS, WCR 19/49 30 

108

3445 HOLCOMB 19008755. HOLCOLM 50 ROHNS SUB L14 P17 PLATS, WCR 19/49 30 
108

3439 HOLCOMB 19008756. HOLCOMB 49 ROHNS SUB L14 P17 PLATS, WCR 19/49 30 
108

3433 HOLCOMB 19008757. HOLCOMB 48 ROHNS SUB L14 P17 PLATS, WCR 19/49 30 
108

2202 HIBBARD 19008905. HIBBARD 44 WM WESSONS SUB L11 P33 PLATS, 
19/184 30 113.54

4616 ROHNS 19009075. ROHNS 5 A SCHULTZ SUB L24 P97 PLATS, 19/178
30 107

5762 ROHNS 19009163. ROHNS 42 15 FT 41 VAN WINKLES SUB L14 P99 PLATS, 
19/112 45 102.54

8913 GEORGIA 19009251. ROHNS 37 COOPER SUB L31 P21 PLATS, 

197410 46.7 IRREG

 

6633 ROHNS

19009307001

ROHNS 157 THRU 164 ROBERT WALKERS SUB L25 P56
PLATS, 197-414 240 111.5

 

2214 CRAN 

19009632.

CRANE WESSONS SUB L11 P33
PLATS, 197184 25 120

 

9458 STONE

20001497.

STONE 77 WEIGERT HACKSTEINS SUB L25 P6 PLATS, 
20/100 30 113.20

 

9452 STON 

20001498.

STONE 76 WEIGERT 81 HACKSTEINS SUB L25 P6 PLATS, 
20/100 30 113.20

 

9200 OLIVET

20002236.

LAFAYETTE 247 THRU 259 RATHBONES SUB L16 P70 PLATS,
20/165 5 THRU 8 DISTELS SUB L20 P32 PLATS, 
20/158 102.57 FT OF LOT 3 102.57 FT OF 3.60 FT OF
4 WESSONS SUB LYG OF ADJ FORT ST ADJ DISTELS
SUB 29 TH RU 32 AND VAC ALLEYS ADJ

 

8120 LAFAYETTE

20002310.

LAFAYETTE 15 FT 280 15 FT 281 RATH BONES SUB L11
P42 PLATS, 20/159 30 126

 

 

9225 CHAMBERLAIN

 

20002397.

 

CHAMBERLAIN 139 EXC 5 FT RATHBONES SUB L16 P70
PLATS, 20/165 30 121

 

Exhibit Page 47 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

8760 CHAMBERLAIN 20002440. CHAMBERLAIN 79 EXC 5 FT RATHBONES SUB L16 P70
PLATS, 20/165 30 121

8158 RATHBONE 20002648. RATHBONE 35 RATHBONES SUB L11 P42 PLATS, 
20/159 25 123.34A

8152 RATHBONE 20002649. RATHBONE 36 RATHBONES SUB L11 P42 PLATS, 
20/159 25 123.04A

8760 MASON PL 20003651. MASON PLACE 65 MASONS SUB L29 P100 PLATS, WCR

20/327 30 123.30

 

9215 MANDALE

20003694?702

I MANDALE 13 THRU 5 HARRY A BELL FERNDALE GARDENS

SUB L41 P31 PLATS, 20/396 415 IRREG

 

 

8421 GARTNER 20003774. GARTNER 222 CAHALANS SUB L19 P10 PLATS, WCR 20/181
30 100
7715 NAVY 20003839.002L NAVY 40 FT 371 FERN DALE AVE SUB L30 P56 PLATS, 

20/349 40 50.89

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5420 SPRINGWELLS 20005320. SPRINGWELLS 196 QUINN SASS SUB NO 1 L36 P66 PLATS,
20/365 30 107.40

8939 DEARBORN 20005750. 5 DEARBORN 15 DELRAY LAND CO LTD SUB L22 P17 PLATS,
20/66 35 100

4709 CASPER 20006978. CASPER 140 BESSENGER 8: MOORES WESTERN ADD L27
P50 PLATS, 20/226 30 100

4363 CASPER 20007007. CASPER 171 BESSENGER 8: MOORES WESTERN ADD L27
P50 PLATS, 20/226 30 100

2002 OAKDALE 20008016. OAKDALE 86 VAN WINKLES SUB L20 P36 PLATS, 
20/188 30 100

2007 OAKDALE 20008084-5 OAKDALE 60 15 FT 61 VAN WINKLES SUB L20 P36 PLATS,
45X100 

1040 WOODMERE 20008380. WOODMERE 9 FT 262 261 RATHBONES SUB L16 P70
PLATS, 20/165 34 120

8030 MCGRAW 20008790. ELMER 2.61 FT IN FRT BG THE 2.73 FT IN REAR OF
51&50 LATHAM QUINNS SUB L22 P18 PLATS, 20/345
32.61 IRREG

8717 DAYTON 20009874. 5 DAYTON 1255 SMART FARM SUB L34 P32-3 PLATS, 
20/378 30 110

4010 WESTERN 20010725. WESTERN 49 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4016 WESTERN 20010726. WESTERN 50 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4022 WESTERN 20010727. WESTERN 51 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4028 WESTERN 20010728. WESTERN 52 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4034 WESTERN 20010729.001 WESTERN 15 FT OF 53NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, 
20/371 15 107.33

4036 WESTERN 20010729.002L WESTERN 15 FT 0F 53NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, 

 

 

20/371 15 107.33

 

Exhibit Page 48 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

4040 WESTERN 20010730. WESTERN 54 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4052 WESTERN 20010732. WESTERN 56 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4070 WESTERN 20010735. WESTERN 59 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4088 WESTERN 20010738. WESTERN 62 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
109.80

4094 WESTERN 20010739. WESTERN 63 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4124 WESTERN 20010744. WESTERN 68 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4130 WESTERN 20010745. WESTERN 69 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4136 WESTERN 20010746. WESTERN 70 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4256 WESTERN 20010766. WESTERN 90 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371 30
107.33

4276 WESTERN 20010769. WESTERN 93 NOLLERS ADD L18 P13 PLATS, WCR 20/371
34.82 IRREG

2231 20011179227 MARION PARK NO 1 L55

P25 PLATS, 20/456 45 113.70A

 

12001 GLEASON

20012351-69

DEACON 1257 THRU 1275 1348 THRU 1366 AND VAC
DEACON AVE ADJ MARION PARK NO 4 L55 P100 PLATS, 
20/455 5.7213 AC

 

 

2974 LIDDESDALE 20013515. LIDDESDALE 164 LIBERTY PK SUB L33 P98 PLATS, 
207419 35 166.89A
3185 ELECTRIC 20013949. 5 ELECTRIC 68 LIBERTY PARK SUB L33 P98 PLATS, 

20/419 20 120

 

EDSEL 108 FT OF THAT PT OF 61 LYG ADJ EDSEL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3394 EDSEL 20014653.002L
AVE BETW VICTORY PARK SUB NO 1 FORT PARK SUB 
I 43.8 IRREG
2656 EDSEL 20014721. EDSEL 190 HARRAHS FORT ST SUB L30 P53 PLATS, 
20/424 30 100
291 COLONIAL 200162089 5 COLONIAL 341&342 OAKWOOD L13 P36 PLATS, 
20/401 60 100
336 LUTHER 20016372. LUTHER 543 OAKWOOD L13 P36 PLATS, 20/401 30 
100
12120 LEONARD 20017758. PLEASANT 568 FT OF THAT PT OF PC 125 LYG OF
LEONARD OF BEATRICE 4.9985AC
2620 FORT 20018494. OMAHA 45.61 FT 107 THRU 105 HANNANS AMERICAN
PARK SUB L32 P85 PLATS, 20/423 45.61 94.63A
12226 VISGER 20018625-36 VISGER 80 TH RU 129 AND VAC ALLEYS ADJ MICHAEL DUNN
ESTATE SUB L57 P70 PLATs, 20/460 233.85 IRREG
12233 VISGER 20018704. VISGER 9 VISGER HEIGHTS SUB L38 P93 PLATS, 

 

 

20/427 20 100

 

Exhibit A Page 49 Of 67

 

 

Address

Parcel ID

Legal Description

 

12201 VISG ER

20018709-12

VISGER 4 THRU 1 VISGER HEIGHTS SUB L38 P93 PLATS, 
20/427 81.01IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14818 HARBOR 21000182. 5 HARBOR ISLAND 1 AND 10 FT STIP ADJ LOT 1 8 FT 2
ISLAND FREUDS FOX CREEK SUB L27 P2 PLATS, 217299 38 120
13139 CAN FIELD 21001823. N--E CANFIELD 66 FT 72 66 FT OF 3.75 FT 73 DE BUCKS
SUB L32 P78 PLATS, 217442 33.75 66
10412 SHOEMAKER 21003238. SHOEMAKER ALL THAT PART OF 7&8 DESC AS FOLS-BEG AT
NE CORNER TH SLY 100 FT ALG LINE TH WLY 31.51 FT ALG 
LINE TH WLY 16.90 FT ALG LINE TH 88D 57M 2.MICHELS SUB
127 P45 PLATS, WCR 21/577 38 IRREG
10745 SHOEMAKER 21003277. SHOEMAKER 656 THRU 659 ST CLAIR HEIGHTS EUGENE
I SLOMANS SUB L18 P50 21/534 125.40 IRREG
15054 EVANSTON 21004937. EVANSTON 71 DAVID HARPER AVE SUB 151 P23
PLATS, 21/759 37 100
12350 EVANSTON 21005077. EVANSTON 293 BARRETT WALSHS HARPER AVE SUB NO 3
L44 P48 PLATS, WCR 21/666 40 100.17
12290 EVANSTON 21005085. 5 EVANSTON 301 BARRETT WALSHS HARPER AVE SUB NO 3
144 P48 PLATS, WCR 21/666 40 100.17
12234 EVANSTON 21005087.005L EVANSTON 1 DONOVAN DI GIOVANNI HARPER AVE SUB
. 183 P18 PLATS, WCR 21/1033 52.11 102.86A 
11865 EVANSTON 21005162. EVANSTON 27 BARRETT WALSHS HARPER AVE SUB NO 1
141 P8 PLATS, 21/600 35 143.37A
12289 EVANSTON 21005167. EVANSTON 274 BARRETT WALSHS HARPER AVE SUB NO 3
144 P48 PLATS, 21/666 40 147.25A
12295 EVANSTON 21005168. EVANSTON 275 BARRETT WALSHS HARPER AVE SUB NO 3
144 P48 PLATS, 21/666 40 147.74A
12035 CAMDEN 21005874. CAMDEN 9 WADE-CAMDEN SUB L67 P6 PLATS, 
21/1002 40 IRREG
12045 CAMDEN 21005875. CAMDEN 10 WADE-CAMDEN SUB 167 P6 PLATS, 
21/1002 40 IRREG
12051 CAMDEN 21005876. CAMDEN 11 WADE-CAMDEN SUB 167 P6 PLATS, 
21/1002 40 IRREG
12067 WADE 21006230. WADE 313 RAVENDALE SUB 146 P5 PLATS, 21/684 35
110 
12081 WADE 21006232. WADE 315 RAVENDALE SUB 146 P5 PLATS, 21/684 35
110
12117 WADE 21006234. WADE 317 RAVENDALE SUB 146 P5 PLATS, 21/684 35
110 .
12131 WADE 21006236. WADE 319 RAVENDALE SUB 146 P5 PLATS, 21/684 35
110
12139 WADE 21006237. WADE 320 RAVENDALE SUB 146 P5 21/684 35
110
12153 WADE 21006239. WADE 322 RAVENDALE SUB 146 P5 PLATS, 21/684 35

 

 

 

110

 

Exhibit Page 50 Of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

12203 WADE 21006240. WADE 323 RAVENDALE SUB L46 P5 PLATS, 21/684 35
110

12217 WADE 21006242. WADE 325 RAVENDALE SUB L46 P5 PLATS, 21/684 40
110

11861 LONGVIEW 21007686. LONGVIEW 44 GRATIOT GARDENS SUB L32 P14 PLATS, 
21/455 40 155.2A

9905 DICKERSON 21008202. CHELSEA 77 CHELSEA PARK SUB L28 P85 PLATS, 
21/429 30 140

12067 KILBOURNE 21010059. KILBOURNE 20 FT OF 33 A NORY SUB L42 P100
PLATS, 217647 20 143

11055 GLENFIELD 21010582. GLENFIELD 1 THRU 4 EXC GLENFIELD FLANDERS AVES AS
DEEDED EXC 5 414.6 FT OF 6 FT OF LOT4 DEEDED FOR
ALLEY SUB OF WM WATSON EST L451 P287 DEEDS, 
21/488 5.98 ACRES

11771 GLEN FIELD 21010603. GLENFIELD 21 EXC 5 FT ALFRED IDEAL SUB

L44 P16 PLATS, 21/657 30.34 IRREG

 

11920 WILFRED

21010972.002L

WILFRED 87.16 FT 42 HARDY SUB L43 P87 PLATS, WCR
21/641 112.09 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11428 DICKERSON 21011328. 5 FLANDERS AVE 75 RUEHLE GLEN FIELD SUB L43 P89 PLATS,
21/635 40 106.2

14451 FLANDERS 21011630. FLANDERS 36.33 FT 37 STERLING PARK SUB L43 P63
PLATS, 21/652 36.33 IRREG

15017 FLANDERS 21011684. FLANDERS 202 DALBY-HAYES LAND CO CRAFTSCOMMUNE
SUB L46 P22 PLATS, 21/784 40 IRREG

11865 WHITHORN 21012601. WHITHORN 311 JOHN TIGCHONS GRATIOT AVE SUB L34
P51 PLATS, WCR 21/450 30 110.85

14450 HOUSTON- 21014390. 5 42 AND 16.77 FT ON LINE BG 

15.40 FT ON LINE 41 STERLING PARK SUB L43 P63 PLATS, 
21/652 86.84 IRREG

14421 HOUSTON- 21014525-6 HOUSTON-WHITTIER 3&4 YOUNGS GRATIOT VIEW SUB L40

P53 PLATS, 21/607 70 113.2

14453 HOUSTON- 21014530. HOUSTON-WHITFIER 8 YOUNGS GRATIOT VIEW SUB L40

WHITFIER P53 PLATS, 21/607 35 113.2

13122 MAYFIELD 21014968. 5 MAYFIELD 14 DYER RYAN SUB L32 P99 PLATS, 21/454
30 IRREG

15090 YOUNG 21015439. YOUNG 202 10 FT 9 FT VAC ALLEYS ADJ DIEGEL
HOMESTEAD PARK SUB L60 P31 PLATS, 21/937 45 
115

14200 HAZELRIDGE 21016084. HAZELRIDGE 324 SEYMOUR TROESTERS MONTCLAIR
HEIGHTS SUB L35 P41 PLATS, 21/445 44.59 IRREG

12700 GROVER 21016085. 5 HAZELRIDGE 323 THRU 304 REAR LOTS 371 THRU 352 AND
VAC ALLEY IN REAR SEYMOUR TROESTERS MONTCLAIR
HEIGHTS SUB L35 P41 PLATS, 21/445 694.80 236

13570 CEDARG ROVE 21016403. 5 CEDARGROVE 156 SEYMOUR TROESTERS MONTCLAIR

 

 

HEIGHTS SUB L35 P41 PLATS, 21/445 35 110

 

 

Exhibit Page 51 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

12940 PEORIA 21016660. 5 TROESTER 77 AND 8 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ SEYMOUR 
TROESTERS MONTCLAIR HEIGHTS SUB L35 P41 PLATS, 
21/445 43.73 IRREG

12930 GROVER 21016679. 5 TROESTER 57 SEYMOUR TROESTERS MONTCLAIR
HEIGHTS SUB L35 P41 PLATS, 21/445 30.63 IRREG

15045 TROESTER 21016810?6 TROESTER 52 THRU THRU 64
AND VAC ALLEY ADJ SD LOTS DIEGEL HOMESTEAD PARK SUB
L60 P31 PLATS, 21/937 251IRREG

13857 SEYMOUR 21016999. SEYMOUR 7 ELODIE NUYTTENS SUB L47 P93 PLATS, 
21/705 35 111.68A

14503 MAPLERIDGE 21017592. MAPLERIDGE 20.25 FT 18 12.50 FT 17 AND 9 FT VAC
ALLEY ADJ LE FEVRE SUB L45 P50 PLATS, 21/709 32.75

112.04 7 

14509 MAPLERIDGE 21017593. MAPLERIDGE 25.50 FT 17 7.25 FT 16 AND 9 FT VAC

ALLEY ADJ LE FEVRE SUB L45 P50 PLATS, 21/709 32.75
112.04

14523 MAPLERIDGE 21017595. MAPLERIDGE 15 AND 9 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ LE FEVRE SUB
L45 P50 PLATS, 21,1709 40.40 112.04

15485 MAPLERIDGE 21017667. MAPLERIDGE 2250 PARK DRIVE SUB NO 7 L60 P28 PLATS,
21/951 40 137

14523 PARK GROVE 21017907. PARKGROVE 29 LE FEVRE SUB L45 P50 PLATS, 21/709
40.40 103.04

13945 EASTWOOD 21019505. EASTWOOD AVE 5 FT 339 PULCHER ESTATE SUB L44 P76

PLATS, 21/656 5 130

 

11938 MCNICHOLS

21020051-63

S--E MC NICHOLS RD 616 THRU 622 858 THRU 847 AND VAC
ALLEY ADJ SD LOTS DRENNAN 8: SELDONS LASALLE COLLEGE
PARK SUB L47 P28 PLATS, 21/697 240.08 IRREG

 

12538 GREINER

21020372.

GREINER 120 19.75 FT 119 SUB L45 P19 PLATS,
211731 59.25 IRREG

 

13151 GREINER

21020516-22

GREINER 493 THRU 504 GRATIOT MEADOWS SUB L46 P57
PLATS, 21/687 243.74 120

 

 

 

 

16261 LAPPIN 21021921. LAPPIN 651 AND 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ AVALON
HEIGHTS SUB L49 P100 PLATS, 21/739 40 134
16090 NOVARA 21022341. NOVARA 557 9 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ AVALON HEIGHTS
SUB L49 P100 PLATS, 21/789 40 134 
16100 TACOMA 21023499. TACOMA 309 AVALON HEIGHTS SUB L49 P100 PLATS, 
21/789 35 125
13245 TACOMA 21023722001 TACOMA 393 GRATIOT LAWN SUB L38 P81 PLATS, 

21/827 35 110

 

 

 

 

16516 STATE FAIR 21023962-3 STATE FAIR 15 FT 162 30 FT 163 AVALON HEIGHTS
SUB L49 P100 PLATS, 21/789 45 128.6A

14475 STATE FAIR 21024464-5 STATE FAIR 60&59 MOHICAN HEIGHTS SUB L58 P51
PLATS, 21/914 40 100

15715 STATE FAIR 21024557. STATE FAIR 189 AND 9 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ ED DE

 

 

GRANDCHAMP GRATIOT FARM SUB L40 P18 PLATS, WCR
21/803 37.5 147

 

 

Exhibit Page 52 of67

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
16097 STATE FAIR 21024598?9 STATE FAIR 17 FT 265 266 2 FT 267 PATERSON BROS
COS RIDGEMONT GARDENS SUB L60 P3 PLATS, WCR
21/943 39 126
15824 ROSSINI DRIVE 21024744. 5 ROSSINI DR 158 ED DE GRANDCHAMP GRATIOT FARM SUB

L40 P18 PLATS, WCR 21/803 35 141.38A

 

16691 FAIRMOUNT
DR

21025509001

FAIRMOUNT VAC ALLEYS
ADJ JOHN LAMBRECHTS GOLFHURST SUB L61 P29 PLATS, 
21/959 62 132

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16850 COLLINGHAM 21026856. 5 COLLINGHAM 243 VAC ALLEY ADJ
TERNES SUPERHIGHWAY SUB L61 P72 PLATS, 21/967
40 134

15655 CARLISLE 21027694. CARLISLE DR 86 5 FT 85 DRENNAN 8: SELDONS REGENT
PARK SUB L53 P72 PLATS, 21/892 40 125

19558 HICKORY 21030311. HICKORY 77 GRATIOT CENTER SUB L51 P35 PLATS, 
21/780 35 130

19568 FAIRPORT 21031206. FAIRPORT 445 ROSELAND PARK NO 1 SUB L44 P70 PLATS, 
21779.? 36 115.77A

12331 WESTPHALIA 21032005-6 WESTPHALIA 5 FT 87 88&89 BLK GRATIOT HIGHLANDS
SUB L29 P64 PLATS, 21/446 61.87 IRREG

18708 WALTHAM 21032629. WALTHAM AVE 21 GRATIOT MEADOWS SUB L46 P57 PLATS,
35X 120 

19790 BARLOW 21033196-7 BARLOW AVE 25 FT 164 20 FT 163 LONGHILL SUB L44 P4
PLATS, 21/793 45 110

12406 RACINE 21033526. RACINE 22 BLK GRATIOT HIGHLANDS SUB L29 P64 PLATS,

21/446 40 100.9

 

17370 HAMBURG

21033709.002L

HAMBURG 11.64 FT IN FRT 36 11.62 FT OF 51.62 FT
REAR 26 LAWRENCE WALTHAM SUB L48 P55 PLATS, 
21/721 11.64 IRREG

 

19501 DRESDEN

21034874.

DRESDEN 96 MARQUARDT SUB L49 P66 PLATS, 
21/785 44.79 126.47

 

20082 BRADFORD

21035125.

BRADFORD 302 GREEN BRIER SUB L41 P73 PLATS, 
21/796 40 125.75

 

17844 AN 

21035383.

TRIANG PT OF 2212 BG 11.65 FT ON LINE AND
BG 64.01 FT ON LINE DRENNAN SELDONS LASALLE
COLLEGE PARK SUB NO 7 L60 P30 PLATS, 21/934 ALSO
51 EXC TRIANG PT BG 5 11.65 FT ON LINE BG 64 FT
ON 5 LINE GROTTO SUB L45 P19 PLATS, 21/781 53.16
IRREG

 

19327 

21035625.

ANNOTT 213 TWIN PINES SUB L43 P58 PLATS, 
21/794 40 125.75

 

9026 HARRELL

21036822.

HARRELL 94 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 32.35 IRREG

 

 

9032 HARRELL

 

21036823.

 

HARRELL 93 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

 

 

Exhibit Page 53 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

9038 HARRELL 21036824. HARRELL 92 13.49 FT ON LINE BG 9.11 FT ON LINE
91 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 21/440 43.49
IRREG

9080 HARRELL 21036828. HARRELL 85 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9086 HARRELL 21036829. HARRELL 84 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9098 HARRELL 21036831. HARRELL 82 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9140 HARRELL 21036835. HARRELL 75 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9152 HARRELL 21036837. HARRELL 73 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9158 HARRELL 21036838. HARRELL 72 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
217440 30 115

9164 HARRELL 21036839. HARRELL 71 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9170 HARRELL 21036840. HARRELL 70 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9180 HARRELL 21036841-2 HARRELL 69&68 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21f440 60 IRREG

9030 NORCROSS 21036874. NORCROSS 27 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 114.12

9036 NORCROSS 21036875. NORCROSS 26 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 114.12

9042 NORCROSS 21036876. NORCROSS 25 EXC THAT POR TAKEN FOR OP OF EVANSTON
AVE GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 21/440 23.96
IRREG

9068 NORCROSS 21036879. NORCROSS 20 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 114.12

9078 NORCROSS 21036880. NORCROSS 19 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 114.12

9088 NORCROSS 21036882. NORCROSS 17 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 114.12

9166 NORCROSS 21036893. NORCROSS 4 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
217-440 30 114.12 

9183 NORCROSS 21036934. NORCROSS 67 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 IRREG

9177 NORCROSS 21036935. NORCROSS 66 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9165 NORCROSS 21036937. NORCROSS 64 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21,5140 30 119

9161 NORCROSS 21036938. NORCROSS 63 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 

. 21/440 30 115
9155 NORCROSS 21036939. NORCROSS 62 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 

 

 

21/440 30 115

 

Exhibit Page 54 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

9145 NORCROSS 21036941. NORCROSS 60 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9137 NORCROSS 21036942. NORCROSS 59 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9131 NORCROSS 21036943. NORCROSS 58 EXC CAMDEN AVE AS OPENED GEORGE A
KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 21/440 27.68 IRREG

9115 NORCROSS 21036944. NORCROSS 3.29 FT ON LINE BG 7.27 FT ON LINE 56
55 GEO A KINGS SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 21/440 33.29
IRREG

9107 NORCROSS 21036945. NORCROSS 54 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 

21/440 30 115 

9101 NORCROSS 21036946. NORCROSS 53 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9097 NORCROSS 21036947. NORCROSS 52 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21f440 30 115

9083 NORCROSS 21036949. NORCROSS 50 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9077 NORCROSS 21036950. NORCROSS 49 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9071 NORCROSS 21036951. NORCROSS 48 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9065 NORCROSS 21036952. NORCROSS 47 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

9045 NORCROSS 21036953. NORCROSS 46 EXC THAT POR TAKEN FOR OP OF
EVANSTON AVE GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 IRREG

9043 NORCROSS 21036954. NORCROSS 44&43 EXC THAT POR TAKEN FOR OPENING OF
EVANSTON AVENUE GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 27.13 IRREG

9037 NORCROSS 21036955. NORCROSS 42 GEORGE A KING SUB L33 P21 PLATS, 
21/440 30 115

436 ST CLAIR 21038415. ST CLAIR THAT PT OF 6 &7 LYG OF ADJ FREUD AVE EXC
ST CLAIR AS OP 8.65 FT SUB OF 1/2 OF 725 L226
P92-3 DEEDS, 21/998 21.681RREG 

440 ST CLAIR 21038416. ST CLAIR 8 WAY GAEDCKES SUB L42 P1 PLATS, 
21/654 40 103.47A

504 ST CLAIR 21038424. ST CLAIR 30.45 FT 26 WAY GAEDCKES RIVERVIEW SUB
L28 P41 PLATS, 21/351 30.45 IRREG

522 ST CLAIR 21038427. ST CLAIR 23 WAY GAEDCKES RIVERVIEW SUB L28 P41
PLATSJ 21/351 30 104.05A

530 ST CLAIR 21038428. ST CLAIR 22 15 FT 21 WAY GAEDCKES RIVERVIEW SUB

I L28 P41 PLATS, 21/351 45 104.11A

542 ST CLAIR 21038429. ST CLAIR 15 FT 21 20 WAY GAEDCKES RIVERVIEW SUB
L28 P41 PLATS, 21/351 45 104.17A

592 ST CLAIR 21038436. ST CLAIR 12 15 FT 11 WAY GAEDCKES RIVERVIEW SUB

 

 

L28 P41 PLATS, 21/351 45 104.53A

 

Exhibit Page 55 of67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description
606 ST CLAIR 21038438. ST CLAIR 9 15 FT 8 WAY GAEDCKES RIVERVIEW SUB L28
P41 PLATS, 21,851 45 104.66A
616 ST CLAIR 21038439. ST CLAIR 15 FT 8 7 WAY GAEDCKES RIVERVIEW SUB L28
P41 PLATS, 21/351 45 104.72A
4013 ST CLAIR 21038960. ST CLAIR 26 FT 102 4 FT 103 GOESCHELS SUB L27 P44
PLATS, 21/532 30 131.12A
573 ST CLAIR 21039158. ST CLAIR 20 FT 12 14 FT 13 GOESCHELS ARCADIA SUB
L40 P31 PLATS, 21/609 34 105
473 ST CLAIR 21039172. ST CLAIR 26 18 FT 27 GOESCHELS ARCADIA SUB L40 P31
PLATS, 21/609 54 105
431 ST CLAIR 21039173-7 ST CLAIR 18 FT OF 27 28 THRU ARCADIA
SUB L40 P31 PLATS, 21/609 THAT PT OF 4&5 LYING 
OF ADJ FREUD AVE SUB OF 1/2 OF 725 L226 P92-3
DEEDS, 21/998 19,355 SQ FT
552 HARDING 21039186. HARDING 10 FT 47 48 MAIRES SUB NO 1 L44 P50 PLATS,
211667 40 100
684 HARDING 21039204. HARDING 32 15 FT 33 BELLE ISLE PARKVIEW SUB L26 P56
I PLATS, 21f245 45 100
1228 HARDING 21039216. HARDING 46 BELLE ISLE PARKVIEW SUB L26 P56 PLATS, 
21/245 30 100
711 HARDING 21039931. HARDING 15 FT 22 23 BELLE ISLE PARKVIEW SUB L26 P56
PLATS, 21/245 45 100
655 HARDING 21039938. HARDING ADJ BELLE ISLE
PARKVIEW SUB 60 IRREG
609 HARDING 21039944. HARDING 3 MAIRES SUB L30 P34 PLATS, 21/398 30 
100
493 HARDING 21039962. HARDING 132 KEANS FREUD AVE SUB 1 L59 P13 PLATS, 
21/919 35 100
485 HARDING 21039963. HARDING 25 FT 133 KEANS FREUD AVE SUB 1 L59 P13
PLATS, 21/919 25 100
602 MEADOWBROOK 21039979. MEADOWBROOK 10 WALTER MACKS SUB L28 P11 PLATS,
21/352 35 96.78A
571 MEADOWBROOK 21040045. MEADOWBROOK 37 MAIRES SUB NO 1 L44 P50 PLATS, 
211667 33.75 84.25A 
555 MEADOWBROOK 21040047. MEADOWBROOK 39 MAIRES SUB NO 1 L44 P50 PLATS, 
217667 33.75 85.65A
549 MEADOWBROOK 21040048. MEADOWBROOK 40 MAIRES SUB NO 1 L44 P50 PLATS, 
33.75 86.35A
543 MEADOWBROOK 21040049. MEADOWBROOK 41 MAIRES SUB NO 1 L44 P50 PLATS, 
21/667 33.75 87.05A
521 MEADOWBROOK 21040051. MEADOWBROOK 43 MAIRES SUB NO 1 L44 P50 PLATS, 
21/667 33.75 88.45A
465 MEADOWBROOK 21040059. MEADOWBROOK 106 KEANS FREUD AVE SUB NO 1 L59

 

P13 PLATS, 21/919 35 86.85A

 

 

Exhibit Page 56 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

459 MEADOWBROOK 21040060. MEADOWBROOK 107 AND 1/2 VAC ALLEY ADJ KEANS
FREUD AVE SUB NO 1 L59 P13 PLATS, 21/919 45 
86.62A

3880 FRENCH RD 21040086. FRENCH RD 516 ST CLAIR HEIGHTS EUGENE SLOMANS SUB
L18 P50 PLATS, 21/534 30 104.23A

4531 MONTCLAIR 21041009. MONTCLAIR 418 ST CLAIR HEIGHTS EUGENE SLOMANS SUB
L18 P50 PLATS, 21,634 30 106.68A

554 LEMAY 21041260. LEMAY 105 KEANS ISLAND VIEW SUB NO 1 L40 P83 PLATS,
21/598 30 94

1622 LEMAY 21041313. LEMAY 64 EUREKA SUB L18 P60 PLATS, WCR 21/356 30 
111.66A

496 FAIRVIEW 21042016. FAIRVIEW 10 KEANS FREUD AVE SUB L58 P62 PLATS, 
21/912 35 105

2520 FAIRVIEW 21042111-3 FAIRVIEW 210 THRU 208 DWYER SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24
P96 PLATS, 21/361 90 103

5638 FAIRVIEW 21042276. FAIRVIEW 32 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ THOS RICE
SHOEMAKERS SUB L38 P35 PLATS, 211572 30 112

2201 FAIRVIEW 21042500. FAIRVIEW 44.27 FT 99 EUREKA SUB L18 P60 PLATS, WCR

21/356 44.27 IRREG

529 FAIRVIEW 21042582. FAIRVIEW 90 KEANS ISLAND VIEW SUB L40 P83 PLATS, 
21/598 30 95.09A

523 FAIRVIEW 21042583. FAIRVIEW 91 KEANS ISLAND VIEW SUB NO 1 L40 P83
PLATS, 21/598 30 94.55A

519 FAIRVIEW 21042584. FAIRVIEW 92 KEANS ISLAND VIEW SUB NO 1 L40 P83
PLATS, 21/598 30 94.01A

1585 BENITEAU 21043537. BENITEAU AVE 106 FT 29 106 FT 27 BENITEAUS SUB L7
P59 PLATS, 21/320 60 106

543 ENGEL 21043704. ENGEL AVE 18 FT 62 61 ENGEL SCHWARTZS SUB L23
P69 PLATS, 21/257 52.04 IRREG

4663 STJEAN 21043983. STJEAN 5 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21/548 31 140

2989 STJEAN 21044108. STJEAN 1 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26
P66 PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 150

2941 ST JEAN 21044115. STJEAN 45 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS,
21/361 30 150

2239 STJEAN 21044150. STJEAN 2 NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 
21/367 30 150 

11400 CONNER 21046299-301 CONNER 3.83 ACRES LYG OF CONNER AVE BETW
GLENFIELD AND FLANDERS AVES AS DEEDED JOSEPH
TROMBLEY FARM 3.83 ACRES

11900 CONNER 21046336. CONNER 1 DRENNAN SELDONS CONNERS PARK SUB L46
P86 PLATS, 21/700 42.43 IRREG

801 NAVAHOE 21046688. NAVAHOE 144 A CAMPAU REALTY CO SUB L32 P87

PLATS, 21/405 35 100

 

Exhibit Page 57 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

3000 ALGONQUIN 21046901-9 ALGONQUIN 156 THRU 164 25 FT 165 AND 9 FT VAC
ALLEY ADJ DANIELJ CAMPAUS SUB L35 P20 PLATS, 
21/410 340 IRREG

3030 ALGONQUIN 21046910-2 ALGONQUIN 10 FT 165 166 THRU 168 AND 9 FT VAC
ALLEY ADJ DANIELJ CAMPAUS SUB L35 P20 PLATS, 
21/410 121.57 IRREG

12717 FOREST 21046991. ALGONQUIN 100 JEFFERSON PARK LAND CO LTD SUB L47
P6 PLATS, 21/691 42.82 IRREG

497 ALGONQUIN 21047222. ALGONQUIN 439 A CAMPAU REALTY CO SUB L32 P87
PLATS, 21/405 35 102

2508 ANDERDON 21047263. ANDERDON 32 FT 412 DANIELJ CAMPAUS SUB L29 P44
PLATS, 21/388 32 122

4812 COPE 21047410. 61 of 2003 expiring 12/31/2010. Property assessed pursuant
to PA 261 of 2003 expiring COPE 59 JEFFERSON
PARK LAND CO LTD SUB L47 P6 PLATS, 21/691 40 122

2644 SPRINGLE 21047605. SPRINGLE 237 DANIELJ CAMPAUS SUB L29 P44 PLATS, 

21/388 35 122

 

4152 SPRINGLE

21047669-71

SPRINGLE 205 THRU 207 DANIELJ CAMPAUS SUB L42 P19
PLATS, 21/649 105 122

 

4383 SPRINGLE

21047750.

SPRINGLE 236 DANIELJ CAMPAUS SUB L42 P19 PLATS, 
21/649 35 122

 

2989 SPRINGLE

21047810-21

SPRINGLE 121 THRU 132 10 FT 133 AND 9 FT VAC
ALLEY ADJ DANIEL CAM PAUS SUB L35 P20 PLATS, 
21/410 436.57 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2977 SPRINGLE 21047822. SPRINGLE 5 FT 133 DANIELJ CAMPAUS SUB L35 P20
PLATS, 21/410 5 122

955 CONTINENTAL 21048174. CONTINENTAL 263 ST CLAIR PARK SUB L27 P90 PLATS, 
21/291 30 100

441 CONTINENTAL 21048265. CONTINENTAL 358 ST CLAIR PARK SUB L27 P90 PLATS, 
21/291 30 100

439 CONTINENTAL 21048266. CONTINENTAL 359 ST CLAIR PARK SUB L27 P90 PLATS, 
21/291 30 100

965 EMERSON 21048345. EMERSON 466 ST CLAIR PARK SUB L27 P90 PLATS, 
21/291 40 100

3424 DICKERSON 21049030. DICKERSON 566 DANIELJ CAMPAUS SUB L35 P20 PLATS, 
21/410 35 124.39A

5550 LENOX 21049845. LENOX 172 PARKSIDE MANOR SUB L45 P53 PLATS, 
21/675 35 100

452 DREXEL 21050349-50 DREXEL 115 THRU 122 ALSO VAC SCHRINER DR 40 FT WD 
PUBLIC PARK AS DEDICATED RIVERSIDE BOULEVARD SUB L37
P93 PLATS, 21/419 320 300

2918 COPLIN 21051311. COPLIN 29 FREDERICK SWIFTS SUB L28 P40 PLATS, 
21/406 30 108

3211 COPLIN 21051655. COPLIN 1 ABBOTT 8: BEYMERS MACK AVE SUB L27 P35

 

 

 

PLATS, 21/434 36.37 IRREG

 

Exhibit Page 58 of67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

2501 COPLIN 21051735. COPLIN 21.50 FT 32 FREDERICK SWIFTS SUB L25 P26
PLATS, 21/335 21.50 108

823 PIPER 21052020. PIPER 152 BLK D-JEFFERSON PARK SUB L26 P93 PLATS, 
21/292 30 100

356 NEWPORT 21053603. NEWPORT 25 RIVERSIDE HOMES SUB L37 P94 PLATS, 
21,3420 44.72 119.86

4800 NEWPORT 21053920. NEWPORT 298 JEFFERSON PARK LAND COMPANY LIMITED
SUB L47 P6 PLATS, 21/691 47.5 IRREG

4801 NEWPORT 21054052. NEWPORT 297 JEFFERSON PARK LAND COMPANY LIMITED
SUB L47 P6 PLATS, 217691 47.4 IRREG

4346 LAKEWOOD 21054644. LAKEWOOD 94 JOHN A HAGERS ONEIDA PARK SUB L33 P82

PLATS, 21/441 50 163.45A

 

5027 LAKEWOOD

21054779-82

LAKEWOOD 20 FT 893 894 THRU 896 JEFFERSON PARK
LAND CO LTD SUB NO 1 L50 P78 PLATS, 21/755 138 
130

 

 

 

 

 

 

1040 CHALMERS 21055188. CHALMERS 298 POINTE VIEW
JOSEPH VISGER AND EDGARJ HITCHINGS SUB L17 P87
PLATS, 21/302 47 112 

9304 CHALMERS 21055492. CHALMERS 46 CAREY SUB NO 1 L43 P44 PLATS, 
21/625 100 45

11101 CHALMERS 21055810-1 CHALMERS SUB NO 1 L50 P9 PLATS, 
21/736 48 100

1119 CHALMERS 21056188. CHALMERS 8 15 FT 7 BLK 5-SKINNER MOORES SUB L16
P58 PLATS, 21/305 45 126.58A

9557 HAYES 21056734. HAYES 62881629 PARK DRIVE SUB NO 1 L51 P47 PLATS, 

21/761 40 99.69

 

19715 KELLY RD

21057127-30

KELLY RD 10 FT 128 12781126 AVALON HEIGHTS SUB L49
P100 FLATS, 21f789 50 100

 

 

 

19701 KELLY RD 21057131-2 KELLY 12581124 AVALON HEIGHTS SUB L49 P100 PLATS, 
21/789 49.70 100

12545 ALMA 21057416. KELLY ALL THAT PT OF 231 LYG OF AND ADJ KELLY
RD OF AND ADJ ALMA AVE OF AND ADJ HAYES AVE OF
AND ADJ MAYFIELD AVE 2.952 AC

11711 DUCHESS 21057889. DUCHESS 119 KINGSTON HEIGHTS SUB L42 P21 PLATS, 

21/812 35 123

 

 

11164 ROSSITER 

21058630-40

ROSSITER 96 THRU THRU 86 170 THRU 166 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ KING
HEIGHTS SUB L50 P60 PLATS, 217826 

 

 

 

 

404 MARLBOROUGH 21059095. MARLBOROUGH 89 LAKEWOOD PARK SUB L27 P55 PLATS,
21,882 35 140.02

4658 21059366. MARLBOROUGH 189 CHALMERS HEIGHTS SUB L36 P75

MARLBOROUGH PLATS, 21f423 30 102.19

1039 21059779. MARLBOROUGH 161 10 FT 160 POINTE VIEW JOS 

MARLBOROUGH VISGER 81 EDGARJ HITCHINGS SUB L17 P87 PLATS, 

 

 

 

21,302 40 112

 

 

Exhibit Page 59 of67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

696 PHILIP 21060004. PHILIP 740 15 FT 739 FOX CREEK SUB L25 P73 PLATS, 
21/295 45 111

2666 PHILIP 21060132-3 PHILIP 15 FT 75 ALL 76 SHERRARD SUB L32 P58 PLATS,
21/407 45 100

4325 PHILIP 21060582. PHILIP 68 NALLS BRUSSELS HEIGHTS SUB L28
P66 PLATS, 21/432 30 102.6A

3725 PHILIP 21060611. PHILIP 14&13 8: NALLS BRUSSELS HEIGHTS SUB
L28 P66 PLATS, 21/432 67.01IRREG

260 MANISTIQUE 21060877. MANISTIQUE 231 BURTON FREUDS RIVERSIDE BLVD SUB
L29 P36 PLATS, WCR 21/387 30 115.02

870 MANISTIQUE 21060995. MANISTIQUE 594 FOX CREEK SUB L25 P73 PLATS, 
21/295 30 115

876 MANISTIQUE 21060996. MANISTIQUE 593 FOX CREEK SUB L25 P73 PLATS, 
21/295 30 115

4340 MANISTIQUE 21061201. MANISTIQUE 275 EDWIN LODGE SUB L35 P10 PLATS, 
21/463 30 100 

5266 MANISTIQUE 21061254. MANISTIQUE JULES PINCKET
SUB L50 P16 PLATS, 21/746 31 110.39A

2551 ASHLAND 21062375. ASHLAND 353 SHERRARD SUB L32 P58 PLATS, 
21/407 30 100

2551 ALTER 21063161. ALTER ROAD 520 SHERRARD SUB L32 P58 PLATS, 

21f407 30 88.04A

 

5939 BARHAM

21065396-409

BARHAM 109 THRU 114 EXC EXP WAY AS OP HARPER
OUTER DRIVE SUB L46 P88 PLATS, 217690 197.6 IRREG

 

 

9917 SOMERSET 21067426. SOMERSET 42 LEIGH COOPER SUB L46 P63 PLATS, 
21/820 35 117.86
10635 PEERLESS 21068448-9 PEERLESS 117&118 AND 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ SEVEN

MILE CADIEUX SUB L54 P12 PLATS, 21/871 80 125.72

 

9727 CAMLEY

21068685.002L

CAMLEY TRIANG POR OF 43 BG 41 FT ON LINE BG 
124.21 FT ON LINE 5 HADLEYS SUB L68 P63 PLATS, 
2131010 0 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3441 BERKSHIRE 21069423. BERKSHIRE 246 ARTHUR SCULLYS RIFLE RANGE SUB L45
P34 PLATS, 21/680 50 112.50

5900 HAVERHILL 21070094. HAVERHILL 1112 EAST DETROIT DEVELOPMENT COS SUB
NO 2 L36 P20 PLATS, 21/426 40 114

3508 DEVONSHIRE 21070354. DEVONSHIRE 343 EAST DETROIT DEVELOPMENT COS SUB
NO 1 L36 P19 FLATS, WCR 217427 40 114 

4400 THREE MILE DR 21071132. THREE MILE DRIVE 406 HENRY RUSSELLS THREE MILE DRIVE
SUB NO 1 L46 P20 PLATS, 21/699 40 120

4414 THREE MILE DR 21071134. THREE MILE DRIVE 404 HENRY RUSSELLS THREE MILE DRIVE
SUB NO 1 L46 P20 PLATS, 21/699 40 120

4417 THREE MILE DR 21071303. THREE MILE DR 192 HENRY RUSSELLS THREE MILE DRIVE
SUB NO 1 L46 P20 PLATS, 21/699 40 120

6145 WOODHALL 21076014. WOODHALL 131 GROSSE PTE HIGHLANDS ANNEX SUB L42

 

 

 

P52 PLATS, 217815 50 114.46

 

Exhibit Page 60 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

5286 HEREFORD 21077100. HEREFORD 184 GROSSE PTE GARDENS SUB L1056 P500
DEEDS, 21/850 50 166

4516 UNIVERSITY PL 21077311. UNIVERSITY PL 92 LODEWYCK SUB L46 P67 PLATS, 
21/816 50 133.69

19590 TIREMAN 22001690. TIREMAN 213 THRU 251 SLOANS PARK DRIVE SUB L48 P52
PLATS, 22/267 270 590.78A

12700 TIREMAN 22001978. TIREMAN ROBERT OAKMAN LAND COS AVIATION

FIELD SUB NO 4 L58 P48 PLATS, 22/559 166.27 IRREG

 

14815 CHICAGO

22003598-6?00

S--W CHICAGO 14 THRU 16 PLYMOUTH PARK SUB L42 P75
PLATS, 22/553 63 100

 

12942 GRAND
RIVER

22008438.

GRAND RIVER 55 TH RU 58 JOHN WELCHS MAYVIEW SUB
L32 P59 PLATS, 22/67 84.5 100

 

16001 FENKELL

22010758-66

FENKELL 223 THRU 232 RUGBY SUB L29 P75 PLATS, 
22/18 711.10 170

 

15068 PURITAN

22012233-7

PURITAN 2 FT 17 168115 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ PURITAN-
GREENFIELD SUB L51 P8 PLATS, 22/163 105.99 IRREG

 

23060 FRISBEE

22017640-8

FRISBEE 235 VAC FRISBEE
ADJ ALSO SURPLUS STRIP LYG ADJ LOTS 87 TO 94 INCL OF
THOMAS HITCHMANS SUB LESLIE HEIGHTS SUB L40 P57
PLATS, 22/360 128.08 IRREG

 

23060 NORFOLK

22018507006

NORFOLK 47 FT 26 RIVERFORD HEIGHTS SUB L40 P44
PLATS, 22/359 47 265

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17501 JAMES 22019766-8 S--W JAS COUZENS DR 1224 THRU 1219 EXC NORTHWESTERN

COUZENS HWY AS WD BLACKSTONE PARK SUB NO 1 L48 P92 PLATS, 
22/288 119.86 IRREG

12822 APPOLINE 22020934. APPOLINE 179 JOHN WELCHS MAYVIEW SUB NO 2 L33
P28 PLATS, 22/64 35 115

12830 APPOLINE 22020935. APPOLINE 178 JOHN WELCHS MAYVIEW SUB NO 2 L33
P28 PLATS, 22/64 35 115

12840 APPOLINE 22020936. APPOLINE 177 JOHN WELCHS MAYVIEW SUB NO 2 L33
P28 PLATS, 22/64 35 115

20045 APPOLINE 22021407. APPOLINE 3672 AND 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ
BLACKSTONE PARK SUB NO 6 L52 P91 PLATS, 22/240
45 116.99

13952 WARD 22024743. WARD 257 GREENLAWN SUB L33 P52 PLATS, 22/91
35 112

14240 WARD 22024772. WARD 446 GREENLAWN SUB NO 1 L35 P33 PLATS, 
22/110 35 112

14929 WARD 22025219. WARD 28 MEYERS GROVE SUB L50 P21 PLATS, 
22/145 35 117.42A

8051 LITTLEFIELD 22026473. LITTLEFIELD ROBERT OAKMAN LAND COS AVIATION
FIELD SUB NO 4 L58 P48 PLATS, 22/550 337.98 IRREG

14820 LITTLEFIELD 22026743. LITTLEFIELD 51 15 FT 52 LIVINGSTONS COOLIDGE SUB L59

 

 

P3 PLATS, 22/589 47.15 107

 

Exhibit Page 6] of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

20031 22027057. 3248 AND 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY LYG OF 
ADJ BLACKSTONE PARK SUB NO 6 L52 P91 PLATS, 
22/240 45 115.99

11717 HARTWELL 22029349. HARTWELL 43.75 FT OF 55 12.5 FT 54 MONNIER HTS
THOS WARDS SUB L29 P16 PLATS, 22/583 56.25 
125

11423 HARTWELL 22029361. HARTWELL 122 BUCKINGHAM PARK SUB L34 P20 PLATS, 
22/572 40 125

9589 CARLIN 22032107. CARLIN 109 PLYMOUTH MONNIER RD SUB
L51 P39 PLATS, 22/569 36 126

8671 CARLIN 22032156001 CARLIN 30.25 FT OF 3 THRU 6 ROBERT GRINDLEYS
SUB NO 6 L31 P13 PLATS, 22/548 9,680 SQ FT

8617 CARLIN 22032156002 CARLIN 30 FT 0F 17 THRU 20 VAC VAN BUREN AVE ADJ
LOT 20 MC NAUGHTONS SUB L56 P28 PLATS, 22/549
6,300 SQ FT

8405 CARLIN 22032156003 CARLIN 64 THRU 67 VAC DECATUR AVE ADJ MONTROSE

SUB L58 P77 PLATS, 22/644 28,272 SQ FT

 

9510 DECATUR

22032301001

DECATUR CHILDRENS PLAYGROUND LYG BETW LOTS 132
THRU 151 99 THRU 118 WARK GIBBONS PLYMOUTH
MONNIER RD SUB L51 P39 PLATS, 22/569 0.9765 AC

 

12101 SHIRLEY

22032498-520

SHIRLEY 483 THRU 505 AND VAC CAPITOL AVE ADJ
PAVEDWAY SUB L51 P6 PLATS, 22/582 883.25 115

 

 

 

14870 FREELAND 22035599. FREELAND 197 TAYLORS COMMODORE SUB L41 P32
PLATS, 22/101 41 102
15364 FREELAND 22035635. FREELAND 83 8 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ UNIVERSITY PARK
SUB L37 P60 PLATS, 22/116 35 110
16628 FREELAND 22035725. FREELAND 203 8 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ HEIDEN 

CUNNINGHAM PALMER GROVE SUB L45 P58 PLATS, 
22/51 40 110

 

10493 FREELAND

22036403-13

FREELAND 407 THRU 397 VAC ELMIRA AVE ADJ
CHURCHILL PARK SUB L50 P52 PLATS, 22/568 502.38 
120

 

10039 FREELAND

22036415.

FREELAND 395 CHURCHILL PARK SUB L50 P52 PLATS, 
22/568 40 120

 

9995 FREELAND

22036419-22

FREELAND 391 THRU 388 CHURCHILL PARK SUB L50 P52
PLATS, 22/568 160 120

 

9515 FREELAND

22036425-50

FREELAND 385 THRU 360 81 VAC ORANGELAWN ADJ
CHURCHILL PARK SUB L50 P52 PLATS, 22/568 1103.5 
120

 

12038 HUBBELL

22038853-7

HUBBELL 6&5 66 FT4 13&14 FRISCHKORNS GRD RIVER
FARMS L39 P64 PLATS, 22/580 569 IRREG

 

9663 MARLOWE

22041497.

MARLOWE 258 TH RU 275 VAC ALLEY ADJ 155 THRU 172
EXC 2 FT OF LOTS 155 81 275 DEEDED FOR ALLEY ADJ WEST
CHICAGO BLVD SUB L41 P21 PLATS, 22/567 723 IRREG

 

 

9910 LAUDER

 

22041683.

 

LAUDER 174 WEST CHICAGO BLVD SUB L41 P21 PLATS, 
22/567 40 107.25

 

Exhibit Page 62 of 67

 

 

 

Add ress

Parcel ID

Legal Descriptign

 

15724 LAUDER

22041950?1

LAUDER 68 17.5 FT OF LOT 67FRED BRISTOWS ROBSON
AVE SUB L51 P16 PLATS, 22/153 52.5 140.90

 

9177 ROBSON

22044514-25

ROBSON 181 THRU 200 259 THRU 268 20 FT 201&258
AND VAC COYLE AVE ALLEY ADJ PLYMOUTH GARDENS SUB
L48 P39 PLATS, 22/552 370 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

14266 SUSSEX 22046144. SUSSEX 1193 TAYLORS MONMOOR SUB NO 4 L36 P65
PLATS, 22/114 35 123

14272 SUSSEX 22046145. SUSSEX 1194 TAYLORS MONMOOR SUB NO 4 L36 P65
PLATS, 22/114 35 123

20053 WINTHROP 22052105. WINTHROP 31 THRU 33 58 THRU 60 MURRAY HILL

ALLOTMENT L37 P16 PLATS, 22/344 345.28 IRREG

11350 FORRER 22053759. FORRER 451 FRISCHKORNS DYNAMIC SUB L48 P66 PLATS, 
22/194 35 125

19462 FORRER 22054154. FORRER 124 2 FT 123 DIVISION ESTATES SUB NO 1 L55
P40 PLATS, 22/345 42 115

14538 PREVOST 22054924. PREVOST 189 RUGBY SUB L29 P75 PLATS, WCR 22/18 60

IRREG

 

9158 RUTHERFORD

22055737003

RUTHERFORD 118 FRISCHKORNS JOY RD SUB L70 P57
PLATS. 22/714 55.20 IRREG

 

18643 RUTHERFORD

22056322.

RUTHERFORD 259 AND 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ COLLEGE
DRIVE SUB L48 P34 PLATS, 22/431 40 121

 

7753 RUTHERFORD

22056768-75

RUTHERFORD 264 THRU 257 164 THRU 157 AND VAC
ALLEY ADJ FRISCHKORNS WARREN AVE GARDENS SUB L39
P100 PLATS, 22/246 281.81IRREG

 

9332 MANSFIELD

22057011.031

MANSFIELD 66 A BELKIN-HARRIS STEIN SUB L70 P52
PLATS, 22/712 43.50 118

 

11386 

22059745.

1261 FRISCHKORNS GRAND-DALE SUB NO 2 L52
P2 PLATS, 22/195 35 124

 

15277 BILTMORE

22064533-40

BILTMORE 1 THRU 8 CRESCENT HEIGHTS SUB L35 P29
PLATS, 22/12 272.94 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8890 GRANDMONT 22064690-1 GRANDMONT 122&121 MADAY MINORS EST SUB L53 P75
PLATS, 22/293 64.28 IRREG 

9548 GRANDMONT 22064707. GRANDMONT 553 FRISCHKORNS GRAND DALE SUB L50
P66 PLATS, 22/196 35 124.25

8927 GRANDMONT 22065191-4 GRANDMONT 134 THRU 132 MADAY MINORS EST SUB L53
P75 PLATS, 22/293 158.48 IRREG

6386 ABINGTON AVE 22065936. ABINGTON 160 GARDNER PARK SUB L48 P81 PLATS, 
22/257 35 126

9123 ABINGTON AVE 22066561-2 ABINGTON 2455&2454 FRISCHKORNS GRAN D-DALE SUB
NO 5 L55 P16 PLATS, WCR 22/327 89.80 IRREG

9117 ABINGTON AVE 22066563. ABINGTON 173 MADAY MINORS EST SUB L53 P75 PLATS,
22f293 95.5 IRREG

9009 ABINGTON AVE 22066564?6 ABINGTON 172 TH RU 170 AND 9FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ

 

 

MADAY MINORS EST SUB L53 P75 PLATS, 22/293
102.79 IRREG

 

Exhibit Page 63 of 67

 

 

Add ress

Parcel ID

Legal Description

 

8966 MEMORIAL

22067525.

MEMORIAL 14 FT 2538 FRISCHKORNS SUB
NO 5 L55 P16 PLATS, 22/327 14 197.03

 

16950 FITZPATRICK

22068008-14

N-E FITZPATRICK 116 THRU 122 AMENDED PLAT HENDRY
PARK SUB L57 P96 PLATS, 22/313 800.091RREG

 

17610 FITZPATRICK

22068015-6

N-E FITZPATRICK 12381124 AMENDED PLAT HENDRY PARK
SUB L57 P96 PLATS, 22/313 200 140

 

 

18350 WEAVER 22068262-74 WEAVER 350 THRU 377 AND 30 FT VAC ROSEMONT 
9 FT VAC PENROD 81 VAC ALLEYS ADJ EMERSON PARK SUB
L55 P45 PLATS, 22/322 3.817 AC

17001 WEAVER 22068356-60 S--W WEAVER 112 THRU 115 AMENDED PLAT HENDRY PARK

SUB L57 P96 PLATS, 22/313 400.61IRREG

 

11402 RUTLAN 

22068652.022L

RUTLAND 112 FT 38 HARRY SLATKINS PLYMOUTH SUB L71
P13 PLATS, 22/722 112 133

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19974 OAKFIELD 22069424-9 OAKFIELD 272 THRU 268 232 TH RU 228 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ
SD LOTS MADISON PARK SUB L53 P12 PLATS, 22/341
200 260

19976 OAKFIELD 22069430-8 OAKFIELD 282 THRU 273 227 TH RU 218 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ
SD LOTS MADISON PARK SUB L53 P12 PLATS, 22/341
400.12 260

15825 OAKFIELD 22069725-7 OAKFIELD 55 FT 23 24 THRU 28 AND VAC ST ADJ 
MILLER SUB L29 P60 PLATS, 22/13 4.843 ACS

9222 LONGACRE 22070303. LONGACRE 354 AMENDED PLAT HENDRY PARK SUB L57 P96
PLATS, 22/313 107.46 IRREG

13503 LONGACRE 22070611. LONGACRE 1827 AND 9 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ GRANDMONT
SUB NO 2 L51 P25 PLATS, 22/164 34.32 IRREG

11379 LONGACRE 22070709. LONGACRE 2174 9 FT ALLEY ADJ FRISCHKORNS
GRAND-DALE SUB NO 4 L52 P4 PLATS, 22/198 35 133

9387 LONGACRE 22070765. LONGACRE 105 Exc 150 FT 1068107 AMENDED PLAT
HENDRY PARK SUB L57 P96 PLATS, 22/313 288.84
IRREG

8451 SOUTHFIELD 22074530-2 SOUTHFIELD 71 FT 79 THRU 81 MONDALE PARK SUB L49
P15 PLATS, 22/261 60 71

8826 ASHTON 22074820. ASHTON 61 DANA PARK SUB L57 P91 PLATS, 22/314

35 109
9081 ASHTON 22075803.004L ASHTON VAC ALLEY

ADJ DANA PARK SUB L57 P91 PLATS, 22/314 49 132

 

14310 ROSEMONT

22076402.007L

ROSEMONT 52 TH RU 49 69 THRU 76 AND VAC ASHTON AVE
ADJ EXC THAT PT DEEDED FOR STREET PURPOSES ALTERED 
REVISED ROSEMONT FOREST SUB L71 P18 PLATS, WCR
221/723 190.48 IRREG

 

 

 

 

 

13595 ROSEMONT 22077092. ROSEMONT 35 FT OF 70 FT 55 GARDENS
SUB NO 1 L36 P35 PLATS, 22/513 35 120
8468 GREENVIEW 22079685. GREENVIEW VAC ALLEY

ADJ BONAPARTE PARK SUB L49 P99 PLATS, 22/262 42 
131

 

Exhibit Page 64 Of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

18651 GREENVIEW 22080219. GREENVIEW 5 FT 54 55 LONGFELLOW MANOR SUB L53
P18 PLATS, 22/419 40 120.4A

16894 STAHELIN 22083191-4 STAHELIN 124 MYLAND SUB L33 P10 PLATS, WCR 22/443 35
134.18A

14031 WARWICK 22086480. WARWICK 1004 GRANDMONT SUB NO 1 L46 P66 PLATS, 
22/506 40 130.5

8459 PIEDMONT 22087796. PIEDMONT 424 FITZPATRICKS VILLAS SUB L54 P23 PLATS,
22/596 40 126 

7270 WESTWOOD 22089217. WESTWOOD 158 ST PETER PAUL SUB NO 1 L68 P24
PLATS, 227704 40 136.63A

9310 MINOCK 22090654. MINOCK 91 AND 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ WARRENDALE
WARSAW SUB L47 P33 PLATS, 22/208 40 135.01

11694 MINOCK 22090720-1 MINOCK 23 FT 224 20 FT 225 FOGLES PLYMOUTH
EVERGREEN PARK SUB L57 P59 PLATS, 22/328 43 126

6037 MINOCK 22091683. MINOCK 49 HARRINGTON GARDENS SUB L51 P46 PLATS,
22/277 35 124

9576 AUBURN 22092340. AUBURN 157 AND 9 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ LASHLEYS
WEST CHICAGO BLVD AND EVERGREEN SUB L52 P80 PLATS,
221211 40 135.01

15844 AUBURN 22092572. AUBURN THAT PT OF LOTS 36 THRU 39 DESC AS FOLS BEG
ATA PTE ON LINE OF AUBURN AVE SD PTE BG DIST 1D
24M 195.24M
94.24M 24.04
FT TH 89D 05M 30S 120.44 FT TO PTE OF BEG EDWARDJ
MINOCKS SUB L28 P94 PLATS, 27449 94.39 IRREG

17380 PLAINVIEW 22094034. PLAINVIEW 279 EXC 20 FT ARDMORE SUB L59 P97 PLATS,
22/611 21.99 IRREG

7232 VAUGHAN 22097315. VAUGHAN 187 JOHN WALSHS WARREN AVE EVERGREEN
PARK SUB L41 P65 PLATS, 22/278 40 127

17305 HEYDEN 22099577. HEYDEN 55 FT 71 GRAND RIVER-EVERGREEN PARK SUB
L41 P16 PLATS, 22/410 55 103.3A

12682 KENTFIELD 22100020. KENTFIELD 1 FT 575 576 BRIGHTMOOR-RIGOULOT SUB
L49 P14 PLATS, 22/515 35 107

12120 STOUT 22101079. STOUT VAC ALLEY ADJ
MAPLES PARK SUB L53 P9 PLATS, 22/285 40 135

12818 STOUT 22101117. STOUT 449 BRIGHTMOOR-RIGOULOT SUB L49 P14 PLATS, 

22/515 35 107

 

20601 DAVISON

22105107-15

BRAILE 175 THRU 182 233 THRU 240 AND VAC AVE
ALLEY ADJ EXC TYLER AS OP BRIGHTMOOR-RIGOULOT SUB
L49 P14 PLATE. 22/515 264 IRREG

 

 

 

 

7389 BRAILE 22106088. BRAILE 606 AND 1/2 VAC ALLEY ADJ FRISCHKORNS
PARKDALE SUB L45 P36 PLATS, 22/279 35 128

14588 BURT RD 22107615. BURT 270 TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR SUB L44 P3 PLATS, 
22/493 34 125.47A

9241 BURT RD 22108160. BURT 104 AND 10FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ ROUGE PARK

 

 

BLVD SUB L53 P21 PLATS, 22/284 35 127

 

Exhibit Page 65 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

14316 WESTBROOK 22109666. WESTBROOK 426 AND 8FT VAC ALLEY ADJ TAYLORS
BRIGHTMOOR JOHNSON SUB L46 P41-2 PLATS, 22/497
34 154

13975 WESTBROOK 22110304. WESTBROOK 515 TAYLORS BRIG HTMOOR-JOHNSON
SUB L46 P41-2 PLATS, 22f497 34 145.07

13961 WESTBROOK 22110306. WESTBROOK 517 TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR-JOHNSON
SUB L46 P41-2 PLATS, 22/497 34 145.07

12833 WESTBROOK 22110349. WESTBROOK 450 TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR-GARDNER
SUB L47 P64-5 PLATS, 22/516 35 IRREG

12825 WESTBROOK 22110350. WESTBROOK 451 TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR-GARDNER
SUB L47 PLATS, 27516 35 138.74A

12819 WESTBROOK 22110351. WESTBROOK 452 TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR-GARDNER

SUB L47 P64-5 PLATS, 22/516 35 133.84A

 

15502 BENTLER

22110569-78

BENTLER 141 THRU 150 HITCHMANS REDFORD HEIGHTS
SUB L41 P52 PLATS, 22/463 410 174.4

 

 

 

17267 BENTLER 22110838. BENTLER 15 PARKER, SCHUNK FRYS SUB L34 P84 PLATS,
22,3398 50 120

17139 BENTLER 22110852. BENTLER 29 PARKER, SCHUNK FRYS SUB L34 P84 PLATS,
22f398 44.37 IRREG

19450 CHAPEL 22111432. CHAPEL 381 THRU 352 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ SD LOTS

PALMEADOW SUB NO 2 L62 P54 PLATS, 22/655 603.97
259.97

 

14858 BU RG ESS

22111928-36

BURGESS 182 THRU 194 264 THRU 276 AND VAC ALLEYS
ADJ SD LOTS TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR HAYES SUB L44 P71
PLATS, 22/491 431 275

 

15320 BURGESS

22111953-4

BURGESS 228&229 TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR APPLING
SUB L44 P52 PLATS, 22/462 70 129.50

 

18483 BU RGESS

22112242-51

BURGESS 51 THRU 47 BURGESS SUB NO 1 L58 P76 PLATS,
22/529 46 THRU 42 BURGESS SUB L57 P31 PLATS, 
22523 399.63 IRREG

 

16762 GREYDALE

22112691.002L

GREYDALE VAC ALLEY
ADJ LOUIS MILLERS SUB L28 P34 PLATS, 22/451 42 
137.5

 

 

 

14207 DARCY 22113186. DARCY 1048 TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR- JOHNSON SUB
L46 P41-2 PLATS, 22,1497 40 IRREG

18460 LAHSER 22113423. LAHSER ALL THAT ADJ LAHSER OF ADJ GRANDVIEW SUB OF ADJ
BURGESS SUB-SEC 10 1 10 22!" 6.00 AC

18470 LAHSER 22113424. LAHSER 110 THRU 101 BURGESS SUB NO 1 L58 P76 PLATS,

W7C 22/529 200 123

 

14144 ROCKDALE

22114095-102

ROCKDALE 652 TO 29 FT OF 658 739 THRU 733 93 FT
732 AND VAC ROCKDALE ADJ TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR-
CANFIELD SUB L47 P63 PLATS, 22/490 1.696 ACRES

 

 

13927 DOLPHIN

 

22115111-12

 

DOLPHIN 492&491 TAYLORS CANFIELD
SUB L47 P63 PLATS, 22/490 66 124.98

 

Exhibit Page 66 of 67

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Parcel ID Legal Description

13609 DOLPHIN 22115113-4 DOLPHIN 341&342 GRAYTON PARK MANOR SUB L52 P89
PLATS, 22/517 70 IRREG

17308 COOLEY 22115213. COOLEY 118&119 OAK GROVE SUB L29 P11 PLATS, 
22/384 9379 SQ FT

14552 DACOSTA 22115562. DACOSTA 129 TAYLORS BRIGHTMOOR- CANFIELD SUB
L47 P63 FLATS, 227490 35 124.98

16745 LAMPHERE 22116377. LAMPHERE 36 THRU 26 72 THRU 62 REDFORD HIGHLANDS

SUB L33 P74 PLATS, 22/473 560 IRREG

 

16101 LAMPHERE

22116422-50

LAMPHERE 1 THRU 38 AND VAC ALLEY BET SD LOTS
LAMPHERE HEIGHTS SUB L56 P53 PLATS, 22/521 21
THRU 14 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ HAYES PARK SUB L58 P32
PLATS, 22/588 

 

 

 

15761 BEAVERLAND 22118606. BEAVERLAND 72 HAYES PARK SUB L58 P32 PLATS, 
22/588 40 116

15751 BEAVERLAND 22118608. BEAVERLAND 70 HAYES PARK SUB L58 P32 PLATS, 
22/588 40 116

17439 MARENE 22119378. MARENE 1 OAK GROVE SUB L29 P11 PLATS, 22/384

97.2 IRREG

 

15315 WEST
PARKWAY

22119457.001

W-WEST PARKWAY VAC ALLEY ADJ
EXC TRIANG PARCEL DESC AS 36 100.47 FT ON LINE 
94.57 FT ON LY LINE ALSO EXC PART DEEDED FOR ALLEYS
TAYLOR BRIGHTMOOR- PIERCE-HAYES SUB L45 P35
PLATS, 227432 12,128 SQ FT

 

18440 GRAYFIELD

22120399-400

GRAYFIELD 112 SUB L44 P6 PLATS, 
22/378 228.38 IRREG

 

15344 VIRGIL

22121018-20

VIRGIL 5 FT 610 611 2 FT 612 TAYLORS
BRIGHTMOOR- WOLFRAM SUB L45 P62 PLATS, 22/480
42 112

 

24721 SHIAWASSEE

22121146011

SHIAWASSEE 16 EXC ELY 26 FT TAKEN FOR ALLEY OPENING
13 FT VAC ALLEY ADJ VAC ALLEY LYG ADJ BANKS
SUB L82 P42-3 22/822 99.40 IRREG

 

 

12701 DALE 22122428-44 DALE 1415 THRU 1408 CASTLEFORD SUB NO 2 L63 P70
PLATS, 22/678 388.33 IRREG
16822 WORM ER 22123068.003L WORMER 45 FT 123 HITCHMANS LITTLE FARMS SUB L34

P82 PLATS, 22/485 45 150

 

20546 FENTON

22123715026

FENTON 1342 HOLTZMAN SILVERMAN SUB NO 8 L78 P76-
7 PLATS, 22/799 50 105

 

 

20563 SALEM

 

22124393.

 

SALEM 60 FT 49 10 FT 48 FRANKJ BRADYS SUB L38 P40
PLATS, 22/368 70 133

 

 

Exhibit Page 67 of 67

EXHIBIT 
PROPERTY TRANSFERS
FROM THE DETROIT LAND BANK TO THE CITY

The transfer of the following properties from the Detroit Land Bank to the City are hereby
authorized:

Parcel 1

WEBB 41REAR OF LOT 10 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49
PLATS, 16/203 41.2 IRREG

a/k/a 7238 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005554

Parcel 2

WEBB EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203
30 128.56

a/k/a 7228 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005555

Parcel 3

WEBB 30 FT LOT 10 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203 30 128.56

a/k/a 7222 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005556

Parcel 4

WEBB 32.5 FT LOT 9 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203 32.5 
128.56

a/k/a 7216 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 1600555700]

Parcel 5

ELMHURST 50 FT OF LOT 33 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203 50 
128.56

a/k/a 7441 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005743
Parcel 6

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 
16/203 34 128.56

a/k/a 7431 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005742
Parcel 7

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS,
16/203 34 128.56

a/k/a 7425 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005741
Parcel 8

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 
16/203 35 128.56

a/k/a 7421 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005740
Parcel 9
WESTBROOK LOT 8 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 145.18A

a/k/a 17643 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110058

Parcel 10

WESTBROOK LOT 9 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 145.03A

a/k/a 17633 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110059

Parcel 11

WESTBROOK LOT 10 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 144.88A

a/k/a 17631 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110060

Parcel 12

WESTBROOK LOT 11 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 144.72A

a/k/a 17611 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 221 1006]

Parcel 13

WESTBROOK LOT 12 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 144.56A

a/k/a 17603 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110062

Parcel 14

WESTBROOK LOT 13 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 144.4A

a/k/a 17595 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110063

Parcel 15

WESTBROOK LOT 14 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 144.24A

a/k/a 17585 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110064
Parcel 16

WESTBROOK LOT 15 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 144.08A

a/k/a 17575 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110065
Parcel 17

WESTBROOK LOT 16 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 143.93A
a/k/a 17565 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110066

Parcel 18

WESTBROOK LOT 17 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 143.78A
a/k/a 17555 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110067

Parcel 19

WESTBROOK LOT 18 SIERINGS SUB L30 P47 PLATS, 22/412 50 143.63A

a/k/a 17545 Westbrook
Tax Parcel ID 22110068

32.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313)224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

 

February 08, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
317 and 335 E. Milwaukee and 6408 Brush, Detroit, MI

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Flaming and Development Department has received an offer from
Milwaukee Realty LLC (?Purchaser?), a Michigan limited liability company, to purchase certain
City-owned real properties at 317 and 335 E. Milwaukee and 6408 Brush (collectively the
?Properties?) for the purchase price of One Hundred Seventy Two Thousand and 00/100 Dollars



The Purchaser proposes to utilize the Properties for mixed-use that is comprised of of?ce and retail
space. Currently, the Properties are within an SD2 zoning district (Special Development District,
Mixed Use). The Purchaser?s proposed use of the Properties is consistent with the allowable uses
for which the Properties are zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of

to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Properties by the City to Purchaser.

Respectfully submitted,

 
M,


Janet L. Attarian
Deputy Director

 

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce 15-}

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the sale
of certain real property at 317 and 335 E. Milwaukee and 6408 Brush, Detroit, MI (the
?Properties?), as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to
Milwaukee Realty LLC for the purchase price of One Hundred Seventy Two Thousand and 00/ 1 00
Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department or his
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may
be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the Properties to Milwaukee Realty LLC
consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Properties, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

Parcel 1

MILWAUKEE LOT 40 AND 1/2 OF LOT 41 FRISBIE OXENS L6 P78 PLATS, 
1/99 45 160

a/k/a 317 E. Milwaukee
Tax Parcel ID 01001917.

Parcel 2

MILWAUKEE 1FRISBIE FOXENS L6 P78 PLATS,
WC 1/99 45 X160

a/k/a 335 E. Milwaukee
Tax Parcel ID 01001918.

Parcel 3

BRUSH LOT 118 PATRICK MCGINNIS SUB L4 P93 PLATS, WCR 1/97 30 141.5

a/k/a 6408 Brush
Tax Parcel ID 01003874.

