 

21/10/42

INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
OMMITTEE

Memo

Council President Brenda Jones; Detroit City Council

 
   

To: 

Cc: Detroit City Clerk Janice Winfrey
From: Detroit Corporation Counsel Lawrence Garcia LI 6?

Date: November 9, 2018

Re: Access to Polls for Disabled Voters

 

 

 

Issue Presented

Persons with disabilities have expressed concerns about access at the polls both at full,
formal sessions of City Council and, anecdotally, at polling places during Tuesday?s elections. In
voicing complaints, disabled voters have asked ?who is responsible,? and ?what can be done to
formally address their concerns??

Secretary of State as Supervisor

Michigan Compiled Law ?l68.2l provides, ?The secretary of state shall be the chief
election of?cer of the state and shall have supervisory control over local election officials in the
performance of their duties under the provisions of this act.? Based on the statute, the Secretary
of State has supervisory authority over elections in Detroit.

Local Responsibility:
The Wayne County Clerk and Detroit?s City Clerk have stated their intention to address all

concerns raised. Each has a system for ?elding complaints and reported problems.

Under MCL the legislative body of a city is responsible to ensure that polling
places are accessible and comply with statutes regulating voting accessibility (such as the Voting
Accessibility for the Elderly and Handicapped Act, 42 USC ??1973ee, and the Help America Vote
Act 42 USC ch 146 ?15301 et seq transferred to 52 USC ??20901-2l 145).
Specifically, the statute provides, ?The legislative body of a city, village, or township shall ensure
that a polling place established under this section is accessible and complies with the voting
accessibility for the elderly and handicapped act and the help America vote act of 2002.? (emphasis
added).

Given the persistent complaints and the legal requirements that apply, Detroit?s City
Council should take complaints about accessibility at polling places seriously, and it may be
prudent for Council to develop its own process for ?elding, addressing and tracking stated
concerns about access to the polls especially for persons with disabilities.

State Administrative Complaint Process

Michigan has an administrative complaint process which allows a person to initiate a
formal investigation against an election authority who is alleged to have violated a provision of
HAVA. See attached. Complaints can be ?led with the Michigan Bureau of Elections using the
attached complaint process guideline. The Bureau of Elections is located on the ?rst ?oor of the
Richard H. Austin Buidling at 430 W. Allegan St., Lansing, Michigan. The Bureau of Elections
can be reached online at or by telephone at (517) 373-2540.

STATE OF ICHIGAN
BUREAU OF ELECTIONS

LANSING
COMPLAINT PROCESS
I. INTRODUCTION
A. A person who believes that an election authority has violated or will violate a

provision of Title of the Help America Vote Act (42 U.S.C. 15512) that
concerns an election for federal office may file a complaint with the Michigan
Department of State?s Bureau of Elections (Bureau) pursuant to these guidelines.

B. A person, before filing a complaint pursuant to these guidelines, should contact
the election authority and attempt to resolve his or her concerns. However,
failure to contact the election authority will not prevent a person from utilizing
these complaint procedures.

11. COMPLAINT PROCEDURE

A. Timing
1. If the complaint meets Section requirements, the Department shall
forward the complaint to the named election authority in five (5) days for
a response.

2. An election authority shall have thirty (30) days to provide a written
response to the complaint.

B. Complaint consolidation/withdrawal

1.The Bureau may consolidate complaints filed pursuant to these
guidelines. Complaints will be consolidated if they contain
substantially similar allegations against an election authority. The
Bureau will generally consolidate additional complaints with an
original complaint.

2.The Bureau may consolidate two or more complaints filed by the same
person. A person who files more than one complaint shall be deemed
BUREAU OF ELECTIONS

TREASURY BUILDING FLOOR 430 W. ALLEGAN LANSING. MICHIGAN 48918
(517) 373-2540

to have consented to waive any timing requirements for previous
complaints filed with the Bureau.

3.The Bureau may consolidate a complaint with a complaint that has been
subject to a final determination by the Bureau.

4.A complainant may withdraw his or her complaint at any time during
the complaint process. A complaint, once withdrawn, shall not be re-
filed.

COMPLAINTS
A. Required Information

1. A complaint filed under these guidelines shall be in writing, notarized, signed and
sworn by the person filing the complaint.

2. The complaint shall allege, with specificity, the following:
a) The election authority that has violated Title 
b) The Title provision the election authority violated

c) An explanation of how the election authority named in 
violated the Title provision listed in 

d) A statement that the complainant either witnessed or possesses
?rst-hand knowledge of the conduct alleged in 

B. Dismissal

1. Complaints that do not meet the requirements of and shall be
dismissed without prejudice.

2. A person may re?file a complaint that has been dismissed without prejudice.

COMPLAINTS (continued)
C. Optional Information
The complaint may include the following information:
1. A request that the Bureau conduct a hearing on the record (See Section below)

2. Notarized affidavits from a maximum of three (3) persons who witnessed the
alleged violations.

IV.

RESPONSES

A. Requirements
1. The response shall be in writing, notarized and signed by the chief election officer
of the election authority.

2. The response shall confirm or deny the allegation (if known).

3. The election authority shall respond to the complaint within 25 days after receipt.

4. The election authority is not required to respond to a complaint.

B. Optional Information

1. The response may include notarized affidavits from a maximum of three (3)

persons who have information that may assist the Bureau in determining
whether the election authority violated Title 

HEARINGS

A. Procedure

1. A complainant may request that the Bureau conduct a hearing on the record (hereafter
?hearing?) regarding an alleged violation of Title 

2. A complainant who desires a hearing must make such a request in the complaint.

3. The Department will schedule a hearing only if it receives a valid complaint.

B.

C.

1.

Notice 8: Appearance

1. The Bureau shall notify the election authority of the complainant?s hearing
request.

2. The election authority shall inform the Bureau within twenty-five (25) days
whether it intends to appear at the hearing. If the election authority opts to
forgo the hearing, the Bureau shall rely on the authority?s written response to
the complaint, if any.

3. A complainant who has requested a hearing, but fails to appear at the hearing,
shall have his or her complaint dismissed with prejudice.

Witnesses

Complainant - The Complainant may call as witnesses only those persons who
provided affidavits pursuant to Section 

VI.

2. Election Authority - The election authority may call as witnesses only those persons
who provided affidavits pursuant to Section IV 

3. Bureau of Elections

a. The Bureau shall review both witness lists to ascertain the nature
of the testimony, and shall strike those witnesses it believes will
offer irrelevant or redundant testimony. A Witness excised from a
witness list shall not testify at the hearing.

b. The Bureau shall not bar the testimony of the complainant or the
election authority?s chief election officer.

D. Procedures
1. A witness shall testify only to those Title violations alleged in the complaint.

2. Absent extraordinary circumstances, the Bureau shall hold hearings in Lansing.
The Bureau shall schedule the date and time of the hearing.

3. The Bureau shall make an audio recording of the hearing.

4. The complaint, the response, any valid accompanying affidavits, and the relevant
hearing testimony shall constitute the record.
5. Hearings shall be informal, non-contested case hearings and shall not be governed

by the Administrative Procedures Act (APA), 1969 PA. 306, as amended.

6. The Bureau of Elections shall designate one or more persons to direct the hearing.

DETERMINATION
A. The Bureau shall review the record regarding the alleged Title violations.
1. Procedures

a. The Bureau shall weigh written testimony? whether offered
via complaint, response, or affidavit? equally with any oral
testimony offered at a hearing.

b. The Bureau shall not draw any inference from a complainant?s
decision to request or not request a hearing or an election
authority?s decision to attend or not attend a hearing.

B. If, under the guidelines, the Bureau does not find reason to believe that the
election authority has violated Title it shall dismiss the complaint and
publish the results on its Web site.

C. If, under the guidelines, the Bureau has found reason to believe that the election
authority has violated Title it shall, pursuant to Section 21 of the Michigan
Election Law, 1954 RA. 116, as amended, provides an appropriate remedy. The
Bureau shall publish the results of its final determination on its Web site.

VII. REMEDY

A. The Bureau shall have wide discretion to provide an appropriate remedy
1. A remedy may include, but is not limited to, the following:
a. Sending a written finding of a Title violation to the authority
b. Requiring a written response from the election authority, detailing

how it will remedy a Title violation
c. Additional election training for the election authority

B. A remedy shall not, under any circumstances, include a financial penalty

TIMING

A. The Bureau shall issue a final determination within ninety (90)
days after it receives the complaint, unless the complainant
consents to an extension or a complaint has been consolidated
with another complaint.

1. If the Bureau fails to issue a final determination within ninety (90) days, it shall
forward the record to the Department of State?s Bureau of Legal Services for
alternative dispute resolution.

IX. ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION

A. The Legal and Regulatory Services Administration shall appoint a
hearing officer to review the record. The hearing officer shall render
a final determination within sixty (60) days after receiving the
record.

B. After reviewing the record, the hearing officer shall issue a final
determination declaring whether there is reason to believe that the
election authority has violated Title 

1. If the hearing officer finds reason to believe that an election authority has violated
Title he or she shall order an appropriate remedy. The Bureau of Elections shall

enforce the remedy.

a. The Bureau of Elections shall report the hearing officer?s
decision and remedy (if any) on its Web site.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437 2

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT 313-224-5505
DEPARTMENT 

   

 

Date: November 13, 2018
To: Honorable City Council

From: Law Department

Re: Law Department Report on MVA Settlements as authorized by resolution of the Detroit
City Council.

 

The Law Department has submitted a privileged and con?dential memorandum regarding the
above?referenced matter. Please submit this item for referral so that Council may consider any

action that is necessary.




RR. 2313 NDU 13 EN. ..

CLE

   

2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226?3437
PHONE 313?124-455t]

CITY OF DETROIT 313.234.5595

LAW DEPARTMENT I MLUHV

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

.3

 

November 5, 2018

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: DANNY SAYLOR vs CITY OF DETROIT
WATER DEPARTMENT
FILE 14710 (PSB)

We have reviewed the above?captioned lawsuit, the facts and particulars of which are set forth
in a con?dential attorney-client privileged memorandum that is being separately hand delivered to
each member of your Honorable Body. From this review, it is our considered opinion that a settlement
in the amount of EIGHT Y-SEVEN THOUSAND AND FORTY-FOUR DOLLARS 

is in the best interests of the City of Detroit.

We, therefore, request authorization to settle this matter in the amount of EIGHTY-SEVEN
THOUSAND AND FORTY-FOUR DOLLARS and that your Honorable Body
authorize and direct the Finance Director to issue a draft in that amount payable to Danny Saylor
and his attorney, Jeffrey S. to be delivered upon receipt of properly executed releases
and order of dismissal in Workers Compensation Claim #14710, approved by the Law Department.

  
 


tant Corporation Counsel

Attachment(s)

cc: Budget Department

3?1?

CHARLES RAIMI a?
Deputy Corporation Counsel 



RESOLUTION

BY COUNCILMEMBER:

 

RESOLVED, that settlement of the above matter be and hereby is authorized in the amount
of EIGHTY-SEVEN THOUSAND AND FORTY-FOUR DOLLARS and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Finance Director be and is authorized and directed to draw a warrant
upon the proper fund in favor Danny Saylor and his attorney, Jeffrey S. in the sum of
EIGHTY-SEVEN THOUSAND AND FORTY-FOUR DOLLARS in full payment
of any and all claims which they may have against the City of Detroit by reason of any injuries or
occupational diseases and their resultant disabilities incurred or sustained as the result of his past
employment with the City of Detroit and that said amount be paid upon presentation by the Law
Department of a redemption order approved by the Workers Compensation Department of the State

of Michigan.

APPROVED: mm 2013

ON 
CHARLES RAIMI
Deputy Corporation Counsel

 

Human Resources Coleman A Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-6936
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 314 Fax 313' 628.1164
cm or Detroit. Michigan 48226 

DETROIT

 

November 8, 2018

Honorable City Council
Subject: Request to Amend the Of?cial Compensation Schedule

Recommendation is submitted to amend the 2018 2019 Official Compensation Schedule to include the
pay range for the following classification:

 

Class Code Title Salary Step Code
94-10-03 Assistant Director DDOT Operations/Maintenance $67,563 $1 10,330 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The above recommendation were occasioned by a request from the Department of Transportation.

The new position is a result of a reorganization within the department and provides support by planning, directing
and coordinating the daily activities of the Department of Transportation. To ensure the salary of the position is
paid competitively, a market survey was completed and data from comparable entities was used to develop the
rate. The proposed salary is essential for recruitment and retention purposes and is based on the City of Detroit?s
ability to fund the increase. The proposed salary is subject to City Council approval.

Respectfully submitted,

WW

Denise Starr
Human Resources Director

DS/sm
Attachments

cc: Budget Department

BY COUNCIL MENIBER

RESOLVED, That the 2018 - 2019 Of?cial Compensation Schedule is hereby amended to re?ect the
following pay ranges, effective upon Council?s approval.

 

Class Code Title Salary Step Code

 

 

 

 

 

94-10-03 Assistant Director DDOT Operations/Maintenance $67,563 $110,330 

 

 

RESOLVED, That the Finance Director is hereby authorized to honor payrolls and vouchers in
accordance with this resolution, the above communication and standard City of Detroit practices.

City of Detroit

Classification/Compensation Division
Classification/Compensation Notification F01

 

Requesting Department: Transportation

 

 

 

Requester Name: Angelica Jones, Interim Director

 

 

Date of Receipt: 9/20/2018

Division: Administratic 65 g;

8/ 





 

 

 

 

 

Work Order Number #2018?073 

Action Taken
Specification Maintained Position Maintained
Specification Updated Positions Reallocated
New Specification El Position Allocated
Other: New Classification Position Deletion

 

 

Explanation: This is to advise you that the Human Resources Department concurred in the following
recommendation, based on investigation and report by the Classification/Compensation Division of this

Department:

1. The following new appointed Department of Transportation title and code be adopted and the
2018?2019 Official Compensation Schedule be amended to include the following pay range:

 

 

 

 

Class . Step
Code Title Salary Code
94-10?03 Assistant Director - DDOT Operations/Maintenance $67,563 $1 10,330 

 

 

 

 

Subject to City Council approval

2. The attached class specification for the following title be ad0pted:

 

I 94-10-03 I Assistant Director DDOT Operations/Maintenance

 

7 

 

Classification/Compensation Analyst:

Samantha Moore 7 

 

Date: i (if/fl

 

Chief Classification/Compensation Of?cer: Nicole Smith 

Date: 4/[64/0/3/

 

 

Human Resources Director:

Denise Starr it r?iz?t'i it

 

f? .
Date: if 1 if
I

 

 

CC: Labor Relations
Payroll Audit
Budget
Oracle Update



8

 

 

Human Resources Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-3710
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 316 Fax 313'224-1750
cnros Detroit. Michigan 48226 
DETROIT
November 14, 2018
Honorable City Council

Subject: Request to Amend the Of?cial Compensation Schedule

Recommendation is submitted to amend the 2018 2019 Of?cial Compensation Schedule to include the
following pay ranges, subject to City Council approval:

 

 

 

 

Class Classification Current Salary Recommended
Code Rate of Pay
Min Max Min Max
33-90-27 AnimalControl $32,780 $37,193 $37,867 $48,012
Investigator
33-90-31 Supervising $38,874 $43,076 $41,812 $51,583
Animal Control
Of?cer

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Request:
The above recommendation was occasioned by a request from the Health Department.

Rationale:
The above request and recommendations are based on the ability to attract and retain essential personnel and
to improve the operations of the Health Department.

Market survey data reveals the classi?cations are undercompensated. Based on the survey data
Classi?cation and Compensation recommends the proposed salaries. The salary adjustments are essential
for recruitment and retention purposes and it is based on the City of Detroit?s ability to fund the increase.
The adjustments to the classi?cations are subject to City Council approval.

Respectfully submitted,

Wm

Denise Starr
Human Resources Director

DS/bvt

Attachments
cc: Budget Department

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

RESOLVED, That the 2018 - 2019 Of?cial Compensation Schedule is hereby
amended to re?ect the following pay range, effective upon Council?s approval.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Classification Current Salary Recommended
Code Rate of Pay
Min Max Min Max
33-90-27 Animal Control $32,780 $37,193 $37,867 $48,012
Investigator
33-90-31 Supervising $38,874 $43,076 $41,812 $51,583
Animal Control
Of?cer

 

 

 

 

 

RESOLVED, That the Finance Director is hereby authorized to honor payrolls and
vouchers in accordance with this resolution, the above communication and standard
City of Detroit practices.

Classi?cation/Com

City of Detroit
Classi?cation/Compensation Division

cnsation Noti?cation Form

 

Requesting Department: Health

 

Division: Animal Care and Control

 

 

Requester Name: Ebony Robinson, Associate Director? Population Health

 

 

Date of Receipt: 1/8718

 

 

Work Order Number #2018-123 2018-124

 

2 3

 

Action Taken

 

El Speci?cation Maintained

El Speci?cation Updated

New Speci?cation

Other: Wage Survey 8: Salary Adiustnient

 

Position Maintained
[1 Positions Reallocated
I: Position Allocated
Position Deletion

 

Explanation: This is to advise you that the Human Resources Department concurred in the following
recommendation, based on investigation and report by the Classi?cation and Compensation Division of this

Department:

The 2018 - 2019 Official Compensation Schedule be amended to include the following pay adjustments:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Classi?cation Current Salary Recommended
Code Rate of Pay
Min Max Min Max
33-90-27 Animal Control $32,780 $37,193 $37,867 $48,012
Investigator
33-90-31 Supervising Animal $38,874 $43,076 $41,812 $51,583
Control Of?cer

 

 

Subject to City Council approval.

 

Classi?cation and Compensation Analyst:

1"
I 1: . 1"
Brenda Km 
I . 1



 

Chief Classi?cation and Compensation Of?cer:

Nicole Smith

Date: Egg 

 

 

Human Resources Director:

Denise Starr 6W 

 

Date: {l Iii-ll! (X

 

CC:

Payroll Audit
Budget

Oracle Updates
Ulti Updates
Labor Relations

 

