

Illa/l7

BUD GET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

David Whitaker, Esq. ?it? at mean it

Director

1 ChristOpher Gulock, 
. Derrick Headd
. . Marcel Hurt, Esq.

CITY COUNCIL
Marcel] R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION 1:31am Ema?,
Senior City Planner 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 13:11; ewubrP ..
ganese Michigan 48226 Analine Poivers Ph 
Phone:' (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Jennifer Reinhgm,? 

LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Sabrina Shockley
M- Rory 30'3?: Ph-D-s AICP Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter
Tasha Cowen Theresa Thomas
Richard Drumb Underwood
George Etheridge
Deborah Goldstein

TO: COUNCIL MEMBERS

FROM: David Whitaker, Directo

Legislative Policy Division Staff
DATE: February 4, 2019
RE: A Review of Pensibn Tax Policy

In addition to requesting that the Legislative Policy Division draft a resolution to urge
democratic Governor Gretchen Whitmer to collaborate with the state legislature in order to
eliminate the state of Michigan?s taxation on non-exempt pension income, Council President
Jones has also asked for LPD to provide a report that lists the states that do not tax pension
income and to review the retirement tax policies in those states.

Given the in?ux of ?scally conservative Governors and legislatures in charge throughout the
country in the past few years, there are now only nine states that do not tax pension income,
Alaska, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Texas, Washington, Wyoming, Tennessee and New
Hampshire. The last two on the list, however, both Tennessee and New Hampshire do charge
tax on dividend and interest income earned through investments, even if these earnings are
obtained by retirees. Therefore, there are only seven states that do not tax retirement bene?ts at
all.1

The state of Michigan has taxed pension income since former republican Gov. Rick Snyder
overhauled the state tax laws in 2011.2 The law initiated by Governor Snyder eliminated the
state's tax exemption for pension income and repealed the Michigan Business Tax for most
businesses in favor of a ?at corporate income tax, thereby, taxing low income seniors on ?xed
incomes to provide a tax bene?ts for large corporations (a reverse Robin Hood scenario).3

 

1 7 States That Do Not Tax Retirement Income By Gaurav Sharma, BA, June 26, 2017


2 
legislaturef2527922002f

3 On May 25, 2011, Governor Snyder signed House Bill (HB) 4361 into law as Public Act (PA) 38 of 2011 and
initiated arguably the most substantial changes in the Michigan individual income tax since its establishment in
1967. lNotes/NotesSuml 

1

A summary of the policies of the non-taxing pension states and Michigan are as follows:

 

TAX ON TAX ON SOCIAL TAX ON DIVIDEND 8:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STATE PENSIONS SECURITY INTEREST INCOME
Alaska no no no_
Florida no I. no no - 
Nevada no no no
South Dakota no no no
Texas no no no
Washington no no no
Wyoming no no no
Yes, but it will be
reducing its five-
Tennessee no no percent tax on

dividend income by
one percent annually
(Eliminated by 2022) 

 

Yes - A $1,200
exemption is available
New Hampshire no no for residents 65 or

older for taxable
dividends and interest.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Michigan yes no no

 

Source of data: Kiph'nger: Stare-by-State Guide to Taxes on Retirees, November 2018

Currently, Michigan House Representative Joseph Bellino (R), has submitted House Bill 4006
for consideration and if passed as proposed, it would restore the Michigan exemptions to
retirement income including pensions, IRAs and 401(k) accounts from being taxed by the State
of Michigan. At the request of President Jones, LPD has drafted a resolution in support of this
legislation (House Bill 4006) under a separate cover.

Please contact us if we can be of any further assistance.

