FORMAL SESSION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2018

10:10 A.M. PUBLIC HEARING (MS/mgw)

RE: An Proposed Ordinance to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and
Taxation; Article IX, Taxation Generally, by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax
Assistance Program, to include Sections 18-9-131 through 18-9-141, to set forth the purpose
of the program; to establish ownership and occupancy of the property is required; to
require an annual application; to set forth the time of submission of the application; to set
for the content of the application and its availability; to remove the notary requirement of
the application; to create a short form affidavit; to require guidelines be promulgated; to
provide the appropriate relief; to require notice of the program be forwarded with annual
assessment notices; to preserve the ability of an applicant to appeal an assessment; and to
set forth tax bill requirements.

Attending:

(Board of Review; Procurement Of?ce, Of?ce of Assessor, and Finance Department; and Law
Department)

(Brought back as directed from BFA Standing Committee of 10/31/18)

(?fty of Eetruit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

Brenda Jones
President . ,f
a: 
Mary Sheffield $7.15 
President Pro Tem - 391$ l' [.15 .
v. . v.
November 15, 2018

Mr. John Hill, Chief Financial Officer, OCFO

Mr. John Naglick, Chief Deputy Finance Director, OCFO

Mr. Alvin Horhn, Deputy CFO, Office of the Assessor, OCFO

Mr. Boysie Jackson, Deputy CFO, Chief Procurement Officer, OCFO
Mr. Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel, Law Department

Mr. Willie Donwell, Chairman/ Administrator, Board of Review

RE: An Proposed Ordinance to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and
Taxation; Article IX, Taxation Generally, by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax
Assistance Program, to include Sections 18-9-131 through 18-9-141, to set forth the purpose of
the program; to establish ownership and occupancy of the property is required; to require an
annual application; to set forth the time of submission of the application; to set for the content
of the application and its availability; to remove the notary requirement of the application; to
create a short form af?davit; to require guidelines be promulgated; to provide the
appropriate relief; to require notice of the program be forwarded with annual assessment
notices; to preserve the ability of an applicant to appeal an assessment; and to set forth tax

bill requirements

Your respective departments are requested to be present or represented at the PUBLIC HEARING on the
above?captioned proposed ordinance amendment, scheduled for TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20.. 2018 AT

Jane? Ayers

Scott Benson

Raquel Casta?eda-L?per
Gabe Leland

Roy McCallster, Jr.
Andre Splvey

James Tate

Janice M. 
City Clerk

10:10 AJVL, in the Erma L. Henderson Auditorium, 13"1 Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center.

A copy of the proposed ordinance is enclosed for your convenience.
measures for entrance into this building may cause delays, therefore, allow suf?cient time for prompt

arrival.
Very truly yours,
1?
Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk
JMW/mgw
Enclosure

cc: Ms. Stephanie Washington, Legislative Liaison, Mayor?s Office

Janice M. Winfrey, City Clerk

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit. Michigan 48226

(313) 224-3266

Please note, increased security

I I


 

1 EPA an to
use}

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and

SUMMARY

Taxation; Article IX, Taxation Generally, by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax
Assistance Program, to include Sections 18-9-131 through 18-9-141, to set forth the purpose of
the program; to establish ownership and occupancy of the property is required; to require an annual
application; to set forth the time of submission of the application; to set for the content of the
application and its availability; to remove the notary requirement of the application; to create a
short form af?davit; to require guidelines be promulgated; to provide the appropriate relief; to
require notice of the program be forwarded with annual assessment notices; to preserve the ability

of an applicant to appeal an assessment; and to set forth tax bill requirements.

Jinx/?4 G) 

A18-07117 i 

jn?iWciMoci
lift?, 9 
(Wat?s)

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

Taxation; Article IX, Taxation Generally, by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax
Assistance Program, to include Sections 18-9-131 through to set forth the purpose of
the program; to establish ownership and occupancy of the property is required; to require an annual
application, to set forth the time of submission of the application; to set for the content of. the
application and its availability; to remove the notary requirement of the application; to create a
short form affidavit; to require guidelines be promulgated; to provide the appropriate relief; to
require notice of the program be forwarded with annual assessment notices; to preserve the ability
of an applicant to appeal an assessment; and to set forth tax bill requirements.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation; Article IX,
Taxation Generally, be amended by adding Division 9, Homeowners Property Tax Assistance
Program, to consist of Sectionsl8-9-131 through 18-9?141, to read as follows:

CHAPTER 18. FINANCE AND TAXATION
ARTICLE. IX. TAXATION GENERALLY
Division 9. Homeowners Property Tax Assistance Program

Sec. 18-9-131. Purpose.

To set forth the procedures and standards for the submission and review of applications for
property tax exemptions, in whole or in non. for persons who in the judgment of the Board of

Review. by reason ol'povertv, are unable to contribute toward the public charges.

A18-07117 1 

Sec. 18-9-132. Ownership and occupancv required.

The Applicant must be an owner and occupy as a principal residence the propertv for which
the exemption is requested.
Sec. 18-9-133. Annual application required; time of submission.

The Applicant must submit a new application each vear to qualifv for the exemption

provided for in the Homeowners Propeltv Tax Assistance Pro gram.

The application for an exemption shall be ?led after .lanuarv but prior to the last

day oi" the December Board of Review.
See. 18-9-134. Application for Homeowners Property Tax Assistance Proaram: availabilitv.

Homeowners Propertyr Tax Assistance Program applications shall be available to

the general public at the Of?ce of the Assessor, Citv of Detroit Recreation Centers. Department of
Neighborhood Of?ces and on all of the Citv?s website under all webpaaes that reference propertv
taxes or the cement ot? propertv taxes.

The Of?ce of the Assessor shall post a notice near the Homeowners Propertv Tax
Assistance Program applications and on the Property Assessment Documents page
that advises residents that the Applicant mav speak with a representative of the
Board of Review it'thev have anv questions about the application.

The Board of Review shall maintain and provide upon request, a resource list of
organizations that will assist in the completion of the Homeowners Propertv
Assistance I?Lopram application.

An application for Homeowners Propertv Assistance Program made _p_ursuant

to MCL 21 1.7n. shall be made bv the property owner on a form that is provided bv the Assessor's

AIS-07117 2 10-29-18NN





Of?ce as set forth in Subsection of this section. In addition to other required information. the

application shall include a place to identifv the following;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1) Information regardingr ownership of the propertv including:
a. Name of Applicant;
b. All names listed on the recorded document;
0. Address of the propertv: and
d. Parcel number of the pronertv.
All Members of the household including minor children residing at the address.
Marital status of Applicant.
All sources of income.
Itemized assets.
Itemized Debts.
A list of all tax? credits and rebates.
An alternative contact person.
(0) The Applicant shall produce with the application:
A deed, land contract. or anv other recorded proof of ownership. including but not
limited to. a probate order or ?gment of divorce.
A valid driver?s license. or anv unexpired government issued identification so long.
as it includes the applicant?s picture and address.
Documentation providing proof of marital status which mav include a iudnrnent of

 

AIS-07117

divorce. order of separation. order of desertion or a statement made by the
Applicant attesting to the fact of the divorce. separation or desertion and that the

spouse no longer resides. with the Applicant. The Board retains the riaht to request

3 10-29-18NN

additional information from the Applicant in support of this statement of divorce.

separation or desertion.

Documentation that establishes the residencv for all minors at the address includine,
but not limited to. federal or state tax returns. Department of Health and Human
Services statements. Friend of the Court statements. school report cards. school
transcripts and Social Security statements.

(5) Complete federal and state income tax returns. includina schedules. for all adult or

a. Tax returns are not required for a person residing in the principal residence

if that person was not required to file a federal tar. return in the tax: year in
which at the exemption is claimed or in the immediatelv precedingr tax year.
instead. an af?davit on a form provided for hv the state tax commission may
be accepted.

b. The Board of Review retains the right to request additional documentation
if there is a reasonable basis to believe certain income is not re?ected on the
tax return.

c. For Applicants who are not required to ?le a tax return. the Board shall
accept W2 forms. Social Security statements, or anv other reasonable proof
including; but not-limited to; documents showing current enrollment in arwr
mormneiprosgtm that has the same or lower income requirements.

Documents providing. proof ot?propertv tax credits. For those Applicants who are
not required to ?le tax returns, the Board of Review reserves the right to request

the Applicant to list all prior vear tax rebates or tax credits.

AIS-07117 4 10-29-18NN

The Applicant shall not be required to provide utility bills to support the claim of
occupancy of the subiect propelty.

The application shall not include a requirement for notarization. but may include a
signing statement acknowledging the applicant?s submission under penalty of periurv and the
potential criminal liability for false or fraudulent applications and statement ot?prosecutorial intent
with respect to false or fraudulent applications.

The application shall not include a deadline for submission. but shall state that all
applications will be considered if postmarked or submitted in person prior to the last day of the
December Board of Review. The application shall state that the Board of Review ?stronaly
encourages homeowners to apply as soon as possible and that any application not submitted prior
to the last day of the December Board of Review cannot be considered for the current year.?

(El The application shall include a document checklist of all items needed for the
application to be considered by the Board ot?Reyicw.

The application shall include a space for the Applicant to document extraordinary
circumstances and explain why they are seeking an exemption.

Sec. 18-9-135. Short Form Af?davit.
tat Eligibility.
An Applicant may submit a short form af?davit it" the followine requirements are

met:

a. The Applicant has received a property tax exemption for three consecutive

years; and

A18?07ll7 5 

(2)

(3?1

AIS-07117

b. The Applicants income for the most recent tax vear did not increase from
the previous tax vear beyond the applicable incommdeline for the typ_e
of propertv tax exemption that was granted; and

c. The Applicants assets for the most recent tax year did not increase from the
previous tax vear bevond the applicable asset threshold for the type of
property tax exemption that was granted; and

d. The Applicants ownership ofthe residential property has not chapped from
the previous tax vear for which the property tax exemption was granted; and

e. The Applicant is either unable to complete the Citv of Detroit Board of
Review?s Homeowner Propertv Tax Assistance Application or doing so
would be an undue hardship for the Applicant: or

An Applicant mav submit a short form affidavit if the followinr.r requirements are

 

 

get;

a. The Applicant is 65 vears of see or older; and

b. The Applicant is on a fixed income that does not exceed the federal poverty
c. The Applicant received the propertg,r tax exemption in the previous vear; or

 

An Applicant, or their caregiver. mav submit a short form af?davit if the followina

rears-enters are as; -

a. The Applicant is a person with special needs as defined by federal or state
gpidelines; or

b. The Applicant is a caregiver of a person with special needs as de?ned by

federal or state guidelines; and

6 10-29-18NN

The Applicant received the propertv tax exemption in the previous vear.

Required information. In addition to other requested information. the short form
af?davit shall require:

(1) The applicant?s name and address:

(2) A copv of the Applicant's current identi?cation;

(3) A copv ofthe recorded proof of ownership; and

An attestation that the information that the information on the short form af?davit
is accurate.

(0) ilinq. The short form af?davit shall be ?led with the Of?ce of the Assessor along
with the petition prior to the last dav of the December Board of Review for consideration for the
current tax year.

Sec. 18-9-136. Guidelines.

Citv Council shall determine and make available to the public the policv and
guidelines that the Citv uses for the granting of exemptions.

Theauidelines shall include but not be limited to speci?c income levels for propertv
tax exemption for the applicant. speci?callv. that Applicants seeking a full
exemption must have income at or below 138% of the Federal Povertv Level and
Applicants seeking a partial exemption must have income at or below 160% of the
Federal Povertv Level.

The auidelines shall include asset levels of the claimant and total household income
to be considered in thgarantina of a propertv tax exemption. Applicants who have
less than 312.000 in assets need not list assets. instead thev can provide an

af?nnative statement attesting to the value of assets owned.

Al8-O7ll7 7 10-29-18NN

10

11

12

13

14

15

The Board of Review shall submit the proposed guidelines to Citv Council by
October 15th for consideration and adoption via resolution for the next tax vear.

The policv and guidelines shall include the appeal process for Applicants that are
denied relief.

The Board of Review shall not require applicants whose income falls below the
?aible threshold to document their expenses or debts. Those whose income is above the eligible
threshold mav list debts and expenses to offset their higher income.

to] As provided in MCL 21 l. 1 et. seq? The General Preparer}: Tax Act. the Board of
Review shall follow the policy and guidelines of the City in granting or deriving an exemption
unless the Board of Review determines there are substantial and compelling reasons why there
should he a deviation from the policv and guidelines and the substantial and compelling reasons
are in writing to the claimant.

Sec. 18-9-137. Relief.
The Board OFRcview shall provide a partial: 50? a tax exemption and up to a 100% tax

exemption. based on the guidelines referenced in Section 18-9-136 of this Code.

A1 8-07117 8 10-29-18NN

Sec. 18?9?138. Notice of the Homeowners Property Tax Assistance Program; outreach.

The Citv shall include on the Notice of Assessment mailed to homeowners the
second week in Januarv. that the Homeowners Propertv Tax Assistance Program help is available
and contact information to request or obtain an application.

The City shall provide and maintain easily accessible inl?onnation on its? website
that describes the Homeowners Propertv Tax Assistance Program. the proaram guidelines and the
process to apply.

See. 18?9-139. Decision letter.

All applicants for the Homeowners Propertv Tax Assistance Program shall receive
a written noti?cation of the Board?s decision within 10 davs after the close of the Board of Review.

If the Board of Review denies an application the notice shall include the reasons
for denial and provide the process and timeline for the appeal.

If the Board of Review fails to consider an application the notice shall include
information as to the inadequacv or untimeliness of" the application.
See. 18-9-140. Appeal of assessment preserved.

A person is not prohibited from also appealina the assessment on the same property before
the Board ot?Review in the same vear if thev are an Applicant for the Homeowners Propeitv Tax

Assistance Program.

Sec. 18-9?1211; rarest;

Tax oavers that receive a partial or complete propertv tax exemption will be issued

a revised tax bill Within 30 davs after the close ot?the Jul};r or December Board or review, whichever

is applicable.

AIS-07117 9 10-29-18NN



10

11

12

13

14

15

Except for a partial exemption. the revised tax bill will re?ect the amounl of the
reduced solid waste fee.
Secs. 18?9-142 -- 18?9-150. Reserved.

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 4. The division added by this ordinance has been enacted as comprehensive local
legislation. It is intended to be the sole and exclusive law regarding its subject matter, subject to
provisions of state law.

Section 5. In the event this ordinance is passed by two-thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon publication in
accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is passed
by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become effective
on the thirtieth (3 0) day after enactment, or on the first business day thereafter, in accordance with
Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

 

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

AIS-07117 10 10-29-18NN

Proposed Amendments to

Ordinance to Amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation; Article IX, Taxation
Generally, by adding further assistance to Detroit?s mostfragile citizens as follows:

Sec. 18?9-135. Short Form Affidavit

d) Applicants 65 and older who are 1) on a fixed income that 2) does not exceed Federal
Poverty limits may receive a short form affidavit for the subject property after one (1)
year.

e) Persons with special needs as defined by Federal or State guidelines or their caregivers
may receive a short form affidavit for the subject property after one (1) year.

Attachments:

Exhibit A: Proposed Amended Chapter 18 of 1984 Sec 18-9-135
Exhibit B: Short Form Affidavit

GL/gal

Iu?rf/i

The Applicant shall not be required to provide utility bills to support the claim of

occupancy of the subiect property.
The application shall not include a requirement for notarization. but may include a

sianina statement acknowledging the applicant?s submission under penalty of perjury and the

potential criminal liability for false or fraudulent applications and statement ofprosccutorial intent

 

with respect to false or fraudulent applications.

 

The application shall not include a deadline for submission. but shall state that all

 

applications will be considered if postmarked or submitted in person prior to the last day of the

December Board of Reyiew. The application shall state that the Board of Rey'iew "stronaly

 

encourages homeowners to apply as soon as possible and that any application not submitted prior

 

to the last day of the December Board of Reyiew cannot be considered for the current year.?

 

The application shall include a document checklist of all items needed for the

 

application to be considered by the Board ofReyiew.

The application shall include a space for the Applicant to document extraordinary
circumstances and explain why they are seeking, an exemption.
Sec. 18-9-135. Short Form Af?davit.

An Applicant may submit a short form af?davit if all the following requirements

 

are met:

 

l) The Applicant has received a property tax exemption for three consecutive years;
(2) The Applicants income for the most recent tax year did not increase from the
previous tax year beyond the applicable income guideline for the type of property

tax exemption that was granted;

 

AIS-07117 5 

