Alton James
Chairperson
Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

City of Detroit
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cc-cpc@detroitmi.gov

Brenda Goss-Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis
David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
A public hearing will be held by the City Planning Commission in the Committee of the Whole
Room, 13th floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, on
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2018, AT 6:30 PM
to consider the request of the City Planning Commission and the Planning and Development
Department to amend the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 61, of the 1984 Detroit City Code,
in two parts; the first part consisting of a text amendment and the second part consisting of a map
amendment.
First, the City Planning Commission and the Planning and Development Department request a
text amendment to Article XI of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance to create a Form-Based Overlay
District for the Brush Park neighborhood, generally bounded by Mack Avenue on the north, the
Chrysler Freeway on the east, the Fisher Service Freeway on the south, and Woodward Avenue
on the west. The overlay district is intended to regulate land development primarily using form
and massing as the guiding principle and to define the developing character of the Brush Park
neighborhood (See Map A.)

The proposed amendments would serve to do the following:











to implement the goals and objectives of the city of Detroit master plan for the Brush
Park neighborhood;
to provide the Brush Park community predictability in the outcome of development and
redevelopment through an efficient administrative permitting process;
to provide a diversity of urban housing choices appropriate to Brush Park;
to place and permit commercial uses within a safe, comfortable walking distance of
homes;
to prevent the development of incompatible development in Brush Park;
to encourage mixed-use development in order to reinforce Brush Park as a walkable
urban neighborhood;
to designate the location of new public spaces to better support the growing density of the
neighborhood;
to designate the alignment and connectivity of new streets that are safe and secure for
pedestrians and cyclist;
to ensure that each building plays a role in creating a better public realm;
to permit the development of attached medium-density residential buildings and multistory, multi-unit, mixed-use buildings fronting John R. Street, Brush Street, Beaubien
Street, and Wilkins Street;

 

to permit the development of medium density multi-unit detached, semi-detached, and
attached residential buildings that relate to the size and scale of the existing historic
district context on streets internal to the neighborhood.

This proposed text amendment is being considered by the City Planning Commission in
accordance with the provisions of Article III, Division 2 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.
Second, the City Planning Commission and the Planning and Development Department request a
map amendment to Map No. 4, Article XVII, of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance to change an
existing SD2 (Special Development District, Mixed-Use) zoning classification to the PD
(Planned Development) zoning classification on land bounded by Wilkins Street on the north, the
Chrysler Freeway on the east, Winder Street on the south and Beaubien Street on the west.
Additionally to change an existing B4 (General Business District) zoning classification to the PD
(Planned Development) zoning classification on property commonly known as 114 Winder
Street (See map B).
This request is being proposed in order to implement the provisions of the Brush Park FormBased Zoning District on the subject land.
The current and proposed zoning district classifications are generally defined by the Zoning
Ordinance as follows:
B4--GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a
thoroughfare-oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may
benefit by drawing part of their clientele from passing traffic are permitted. Additional
uses, which may be successfully blended with permitted by-right uses, are conditional.
SD2--SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT, MIXED-USE
This district is designed to encourage a complementary mixture of more intensive
pedestrian- and transit-oriented uses that may be compatible with a neighborhood center
or with a location along major or secondary thoroughfares. Parking requirements are
reduced in certain circumstances to promote use of transit and non-motorized
transportation; shared parking and a district approach to parking are encouraged to lessen
demand for off-street parking spaces. Certain establishments that serve alcohol for
consumption on the premises are permitted without a spacing requirement in order to
attract increased pedestrian traffic to the area.
PD – PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
This district will permit planned developments throughout the City and will be particularly
useful in urban renewal areas. Such planned developments shall be substantially in accord
with the goals and objectives of the Master Plan, by having a major land use that
corresponds to the most general category of land use, which are Residential,
Public/Civic/Institutional, Retail/Service/Commercial, Manufacturing and Industrial, and
Other, proposed in the Master Plan for the area involved. Such planned developments shall
provide a desirable environment for the uses proposed and shall not be out of harmony with
their general surroundings. The regulations of the district are designed to accomplish this
by permitting flexibility in overall development while ensuring adequate safeguards and
standards for public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare and, where applicable,
encouraging historic preservation.

  

 

 

 

. 




ma?a? New" .

ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


.

 

 

Map B

This proposed map amendment is being considered by the City Planning Commission in
accordance with the provisions of Article III, Division 3 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.
Zoning Ordinance text and map amendments require the approval of the City Council after a
public hearing and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning
Commission. You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by
authorizing others to represent you, or by writing to this office prior to the hearing, 2 Woodward
Avenue, Room 208, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that
some who are affected by this proposal may not have been notified, it is suggested that you
kindly inform your neighbors so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.
An interpreter for the hearing impaired or non-English speaking person may be present at the
meeting if requested at least 48 hours in advance, excluding weekends and holidays. To request
that an interpreter be present at the meeting, please call the Department of Civil Rights, Inclusion
& Opportunity 224-4950.
For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 