Alton James @it? at Brenda Goss Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmorc Davis
Lauren Hood, MCD

AIA, LEED
Vic, CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russo", Jn
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: 

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Committee of the
Whole Room, 13"" Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 2019 AT 5:15 PM

to consider the request of the City of Detroit City Planning Commission to amend Article XVII,
District Map No. 52 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter Zoning, to rezone several blocks
located near Freeway and Pleasant Street, in order to make the area?s zoning more
consistent with the City?s Master Plan of Policies and to limit the in?uence of intensive
industrial uses on nearby residential uses.

In general, the proposed amendments would:

0 Rezone the industrial land bounded by the rail corridors on the north, Detroit City limits
on the east, Pleasant Street on the south, and South Fort Street on the west from a M4
(Intensive Industrial District) zoning classi?cation to a M2 (Restricted Industrial) zoning
classi?cation; and

0 Rezone land on the south side of Pleasant Street from the Fisher Freeway to just east of
South Liddesdale Street and from South Beatrice Street to South Ethel Street from a B4
(General Business District) zoning classi?cation to a R2 (Two-Family Residential)
zoning classi?cation.

The location of the proposed rezonings are shown on the accompanying map.

The current and proposed district classi?cations are described as follows:

R2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT

The district is designed to protect and enhance those areas developed or likely to deveIOp with
single- or two-family dwellings. The district regulations are designed to promote a suitable
environment for homes and for activities connected with family life. The only principal uses
permitted by right are single- and two-family dwellings. Additional uses are conditional.

B4 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a thoroughfare?
oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may bene?t by drawing part of

their clientele from passing traffic are permitted. Additional uses, which may be successfully
blended with permitted by-right uses, are conditional.

M2 RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

This district is designed for a wide range of industrial and related uses which can function with a
minimum of undesirable effects. Industrial establishments of this type provide a buffer between
residential districts and intensive industrial districts. New residential construction is excluded
from this district with the exception of lo? conversions of existing buildings and of residential
uses combined in structures with permitted commercial uses. These requirements are both to
protect residences from an undesirable environment and to ensure reservation of adequate areas
for industrial development.

M4 INTENSIVE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

This district will permit uses which are usually objectionable and, therefore, the district is rarely,
if ever, located adjacent to residential districts. A broad range of uses is permitted in this district.
New residences are prohibited with the exception of lo? conversions of existing buildings and of
residential uses combined in structures with permitted commercial uses. These requirements are
to protect residences from an undesirable environment and to ensure reservation of adequate
areas for industrial development.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public
hearing and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission.
This Zoning Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the
provisions of Article 111, Division 3 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit
Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are
affected by this proposal may not have been notified, it is suggested that you kindly inform your
neighbors so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313) 224-4950, through the
TTY number 71 1, or email crio@detroitrni.gov to schedule these services.

For ?rrther information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

   
  

3 Hr 
Mix.- 304% dk Southern Railway
cw. IlFISHER va NORTH 5? 

       
  





sung

uoneJodJoa panepuo




M4




 

 

 

 

Rezoning to R2

 

 

Rezoning to M2

 

 

 


.-
.-



M4

