TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

CEost?monicz/b 939.500th

 

National Career and Technical Education Month

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

February 1 28, 2019

The mission of the Detroit City Council is to promote the quality of life, economic, cultural and
physical welfare of Detroit?s citizens and residents through Charter-mandated legislative functions;
and 

February 1-28, 2019, has been designated Career and Technical Education Month? by the
Association for Career and Technical Education; and

Career and technical education offers students the opportunity to gain the academic, technical and
employability skills necessary for true career readiness. Career and technical education provides
students with career exploration opportunities earlier in their educational experience, which
enables them to make informed and bene?cial decisions about their academic coursework and
pursue established programs of study and career pathways; and

Leaders from business and industry nationwide, report increasing challenges related to addressing
the skills gap and connecting qualified professionals with available careers in critical and growing
career and technical education related ?elds, including healthcare, energy, advanced
manufacturing and information technology; and

Career and technical education prepares students for these and other ful?lling careers by offering
integrated programs of study that link secondary and postsecondary education and lead to the
attainment of industry-recognized credentials; and

Ensuring that employers have access to a quali?ed workforce is a crucial step in guaranteeing
productivity among the business and industry communities, as well as continued American
economic and global competitiveness. The Smith-Hughes Act, the ?rst act of Congress to
provide funding for career and technical education, was signed into law 101 years ago. NOW,
THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, supports the
designation of February 1 28, 2019, as Career and Technical Education Month. We encourage
all citizens to become familiar with the services and bene?ts offered by the career and technical
education programs in this community, and to support and participate in these programs to enhance
their individual skills and productivity.

. ll?

COUNCIL 
"n-rs 

 


conp oTr 

WW 1?

A4 
ECU ILMEMBER
4" . 4"
4? r! mil! It?"
T: 



?217": CLERK. 2:319 3:45

   

 

:4Fr

 

 

February 1 28, 2019



 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

$05/tmamw? %ew?ut?m

In Memoriam

AUDREY RUTH JOHNSON

WHEREAS, We, the members of the Detroit City Council, solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow homage upon the late,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

 

.

AUDREY RUTH JOHNSON who was granted her angel wings on January 9, 2019; and

AUDREY RUTH PATTERSON was born on May 14, 1929, in Warwood, West Virginia, to the late Robert Paul and
Mary (Lawrence) Patterson. AUDREY, affectionately called ?Ruth? by her family, was the youngest of her siblings. She
accepted Jesus Christ as her personal Savior at an early age, under the tutelage of her father Robert. who was a deacon
at Macedonia Baptist Church in Wheeling, West Virginia. At age sixteen, AUDREY graduated Valedictorian from
Lincoln High School. After graduation she decided to relocate to Detroit. Michigan; and

After working variousjobs, AUDREY attended business school where she specialized in secretarial skills and data entry.
She worked for Excello Corporation and at the Secretary of State. After retiring, she remained active working several
jobs, including at Marygrove College and Job Corps. A woman of strong faith. AUDREY was a dedicated. tithing
member of Tabernacle Missionary Baptist Church for almost seventy years. She always attended church no matter where
she found herself in life. AUDREY was an avid reader and had the memory of an elephant, especially when it came to
scriptures and the Word of God. She was also a writer and developed sermon topics ?'om thoughts and ideas she
encountered from life and her reading of scriptures. The late Dr. Sampson would take ideas and sampsonize
them into pointed, pragmatic and powerful sermons. She taught the Men?s Sunday class, substituted for Sunday school
and taught the Dawn Seekers class. AUDREY used her secretarial skills at Tabernacle in the ?nance and job placement
of?ces, assisting anywhere her skills could be utilized; and

AUDREY enjoyed life. She was known as the classy Aunt and had a ?air for fashion. AUDREY didn?t mind Sporting
her leather pants, well into her eighties. Her fragrant scent of perfume was left behind wherever she visited. AUDREY
loved many activities, including music, dancing, entertaining, going to the movie theater, attending plays, outings to the
park, ice skating and roller skating. Of course that meant nieces and nephews had the opportunity to enjoy those activities
with her. She loved to show the children in the family the ?ner things of life. Family and friends were important to
AUDREY. if you were a niece or nephew running with AUDREY, you would be visiting family and friends homes
regularly. She was the photographer of the family and always took time to show her photos and homemade videos at
family gatherings. AUDREY would share anything she had. She had a great sense of humor and was always saying
something ?mny; and

AUDREY had no children of her own, but she had a special place in her heart for single mothers raising children.
AUDREY did have the opportunity to adopt a son Jason when he was thirteen-years old, who lived with her for three
years. He preceded her in death. Jason had two daughters, one son and a granddaughter whom AUDREY loved like her
own. The lessons AUDREY taught, the example she set. the wisdom she imparted. made a signi?cant impact in the lives
of others. AUDREY RUTH JOHNSON has been a good servant and ensured that the values and traditions by which
she lived. would exist in the hearts of those she cherished for years to come. NOW. THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby extends our deepest sympathy
and joins with family and friends to celebrate the life of AUDREY RUTH JOHNSON. She will be greatly missed.

COUNCIL 

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

January 24, 2019

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLUTION 

In Memoriam

MR. LARRY CUNNINGHAM

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow homage upon the late
MR. LARRY CUNNINGHAM, a beloved husband, father, brother, grandfather, great-grandfather, uncle, nephew,
cousin, friend and member of the vocal group, The Floaters. MR. CUNNINGHAM made his heavenly transition
on January 10,2019; and

LARRY CUNNINGHAM was born on June 23, 1951, in Talladega, Alabama, to the union of Robert and Ruth
(Chatman) Cunningham. The family later relocated to Detroit, Michigan. LARRY accepted Christ at an early age at
Worldwide Missionary Baptist Church under the leadership of Reverend Thornton. He received his education in the
Hamtramck and Detroit Public Schools Community Districts, where he discovered his love for singing. LARRY
competed in and won many school and local talent shows; and

The Lord blessed LARRY with an angelic voice that allowed him to travel the world as part of the group, The
Floaters. The group started as a quartet in the early 705 and became a very popular club act in Detroit. Their ?rst
crossover single ?Float 0n,? was among the biggest-selling singles of 1977 on ABC Records, reaching No. 1 on
the US. Hot Soul Singles chart, No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 chartSingles chart. The hit
single earned both gold and platinum certi?cations from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA),
selling over one million copies of their self-titled album, ?The Floaters.? The group?s success led to performances on
American Bandstand, Soul Train, the Apollo Theater and Carnegie Hall. In addition to his work with The Floaters,
LARRY was active singing Gospel songs, such as his project from a few years ago, ?Feels So Good? featuring
Essence of Grace; and

On May 28, 2006, LARRY was united in marriage with Sheryl Ivory in Muskegon, Michigan. The couple
relocated to Tucson, Arizona. LARRY CUNNINGHAM lived a life most peeple can only dream of. He was preceded
in death by his son, Anthony Lonnell Cunningham; his parents, Robert and Ruth Cunningham; brothers, Windell and
Norvia (Not-Te) Cunningham; and sisters, Sharon Vernon and Karen Cunningham. He leaves to cherish his memory
his wife, Sheryl Cunningham; children, Erica Simpson and Larry Cunningham stepson, Andre Scaife;
grandchildren, Anthoniece Cunningham, Larry Cunningham and Andriel Long; great-grandchildren, Ezil Roberts
Jr. and Jiovanni Long; sisters, Brenda Faye Williams and Teresa Barnes; brothers, Robert and Bruce Cunningham; one
aunt, Margaret Chatman; two uncles, Deitrich Chatman and Arthur Cunningham; and a host of other relatives and
friends. MR. LARRY CUNNINGHAM has been a good servant and ensured that the values and traditions by which
he lived, would exist in the hearts of those he cherished for years to come. His legacy will live on and he will be greatly
missed. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby extends our deepest sympathy

and joins with family and ?'iends to celebrate the life of MR. LARRY CUNNINGHAM.



 

 

 

 

 

 

UNCIL EMBER

    

 

COUN LMEMBER
January 18, 2019

DATE

 

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

  

{Lqu?l

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 5

%estximomia?x Gaffe/satiation

In Memoriam

MRS. NEDRA ANN LUCAS

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow homage upon the late, MRS.
NEDRA LUCAS, a beloved wife, mother, daughter, grandmother, sister, aunt, cousin, friend, Evangelist, and Executive Director
of The Mission: Prevention Education. MRS. NEDRA LUCAS was granted her angel wings on January 10, 2019; and

A native of Detroit, Michigan, NEDRA ANN LUCAS was welcomed into the world on June 18, 1954. She was the sixth child
born to the union of Mildred and Leroy Montgomery. NEDRA had ten brothers and sisters. She was preceded in death by three
of her siblings: Leroy Jr., Prince and Darlene. NEDRA received her adolescent education in the Detroit Public Schools system.
After graduating from Central High School, she began her career as a Care Specialist at Renaissance Health Care. She was also
employed as a Counselor at Woodward Elementary School in Detroit and as an EMT/Security Officer at Motor City Casino. For
several years, NEDRA served the City of Detroit and its citizens as an appointed member of the Property Assessment Board of
Review; and

Family meant everything to NEDRA and she was a devoted wife and loving mother. NEDRA and Richard Charles Lucas were
united in marriage on January 31, 1998, and began their journey of eternal love. It was in this joyous union of twenty?one years
that both partners found comfort and peace. family legacy of love includes her mother, Mildred Montgomery;
husband, Richard; sons, Prince, Delano, Richard and John; daughters, Tinae and Angela; brothers, James and Eddie; sisters,
Sylvia, Bertha, Anastasia, Francellia and Edith; grandsons, Vinson, Robert and Richard Jr., and granddaughters, Brianna,
Arianna, Anna, Ava and Even; and

While working at Motor City Casino, NEDRA received a calling from God to pursue her true mission to serve God. Her intense
passion and genuine concern for people led her to use her own money to rent an office and establish a non-pro?t organization,
Health Brings Wealth. In 1998, she was contracted by the Detroit Board of Education to work with families who were struggling.
Through Health Brings Wealth, NEDRA provided court-ordered classes and counseling services to families and adjudicated
youth troubled by incidents of substance abuse. Although being a state licensed social services provider and licensed Evangelist
enabled her to intellectualize what needed to be done, personal experience told her what it would take to help families
and individuals overcome the cycle and destruction of abuse. With over thirty years of experience in the ?eld of human services.
natural abilities and talents took many forms: social program developer, writer and curriculum designer, fund
developer, life coach, counselor and spiritual leader. In 2002, NEDRA once again used her personal funds to establish another
non-pro?t ?The Mission: Prevention Education.? The organization targeted its services to assist families and individuals
victimized by domestic violence. As a result of The Mission?s leadership and its volunteer?s dedication and passion for service,
the organization received many honor and accolades. Through the years, NEDRA empowered and impacted the lives of over
12,000 residents in the metropolitan Detroit area: and

NEDRA LUCAS loved God and was a woman of strong faith. She embraced life and loved unconditionally, always showing
compassion, kindness and concern for others. Her love was felt by many. The example she set, the wisdom she imparted, made
a significant impact in the lives of others. MRS. NEDRA ANN LUCAS has been a good servant and ensured that her impact
would be forever embedded in the hearts of those she cherished for years to come. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby extends our deepest sympathy and joins
with family and friends to celebrate the life of MRS. NEDRA ANN LUCAS. She was a precious gift to humanity and her warm
and loving spirit will be missed, but never forgotten.

COUNCWESIDENT
i I




 

:1


 



 

COUNCIL EMBEH

January 17,.2019

 

 

DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

NANCY ANN ALLEN
September 12, 193 7 January 8, 2019

 

 

1311? 1 I. "113 11511124171132.

WHEREAS, Nancy Arm Allen, eldest daughter of Pressley and Hattie Green, started life on September 12, 1937 in Detroit,
Michigan. Nancy became involved with the March of Dimes, where she regularly volunteered in many roles
including Chair of the Annual Fashion Extravaganza which earned her the Violet T. Lewis Award. After graduating
from Northwestern High School, she attended Eastern Michigan University, and graduated from Wayne State
University with a bachelor's degree in dietetics; and

WHEREAS, Nancy worked in various capacities for the City of Detroit from Administrator for the Detroit Historical District
Commission, to Director of the Charles H. Wright Museum of A?ican American History where she was appointed
by Mayor Coleman Young as the ?rst Director. After the devastating Riots of 1967, Nancy was instrumental in the
reconstruction of the 12th Street area, helping deve10p the Virginia Park Community Plaza that is still in operation
today. She wrote and produced a documentary about the reconstruction entitled "Out of the Ashes" that aired on
PBS In 2011, Mayor Bing appointed her to the Detroit Area Agency on Aging Board of Directors, where she served
until her untimely death; and

WHEREAS, Nancy retired from the City of Detroit as Chief Developer in 1997. She received many recognitions over the years
including "Who?s Who in Economic Development", "Who's Who's in Black Detroit", "Spirit of Detroit" and the
Mayor's Certi?cate of Appreciation. In 1994, she was featured in the book "Untold Tales, Unsung Heroes." Nancy
was a devoted member of May?ower Congregational United Church of Christ. She served faithfully for 34 years in
several capacities including Church Treasurer, Women?s Day Chairperson, and on the Archives and Higher
Education Committees. She was a dedicated and active member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. for over 60
years. She was a founding member of the Detroit Chapter of For Women Only and

Nancy built a wonderful life with her husband of 50 years, the late Judge Alex J. Allen, Jr. She is survived by her
three loving sons, Alex (Sonja), Michael (Phoenicia Jones) and Derek (Gloria); her beloved grandchildren:
Michael Jr, Marbrian, aylan, Alex IV, Noah, Kyle, Sophia, and Mykah; her great grand children Zyonne, Yazir,
Xzade, Nora and Eden; two loving sisters: Judith Reasonover and Carolyn McClendon (Charles); her Aunt
Margaret Rudolph, a dear cousin Betty Howard; and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins, family, many dear ?iends.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Pro Tempore Mary Shef?eld, wishes to take
this resolution endure as a permanent record of respect and admiration, and that a suitably-enrolled copy be
presented to the family of Nancy Ann Allen.

COUNCIL PRESIDENT

COUNCIL MEMBER


A 5? a: El I
COUNCILM EEFI

0

COUNCIL MEMBEFI COUNCIL MEMBER

January 25, 2019

DATE

 

  

 

    

PRESIDENT

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

 

 

 

 

