Alton James @it? Hf Eatt? it Brenda 0055 Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Davis
Lauren Hood, MCD

Vice Chair scamm- CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 331152313333: 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cc-cpcy detroitmigov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Committee ofthe
Whole Room, [3"1 Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 2019 AT 6:00 PM

to consider the request of the City of Detroit Planning Development Department to amend
Article XVII, District Map No. 42 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, generally
located in the area bounded by the rail corridor, Bagley Avenue, and Freeway
Service Drive, in order to make the area?s zoning more consistent with the City?s Master Plan of
Policies, to limit the in?uence of intensive industrial uses on adjacent residential uses, and to
allow for mixed use residential/commercial development.

In general, the proposed amendments would:

0 Rezone land adjacent to the rail corridor between the I-75?Fisher Freeway Service Drive
and Bagley Avenue from the M4 (Intensive Industrial District) and B4 (General Business
District) zoning classi?cations to the SD2 (Special Development District, Mixed-Use)
zoning classi?cation;

0 Rezone land between 20?h Street and St. Anne Street south of the rail corridor from the
M4 (Intensive Industrial District) zoning classi?cation to the M2 (Restricted Industrial)
zoning classi?cation; and

Rezone the east side of 16111 Street south of Bagley Avenue from the M3 (General
Industrial District) zoning classi?cation to the M2 (Restricted Industrial District) zoning
classi?cation.

The location of the proposed rezonings are shown on the accompanying map.

The current and proposed district classi?cations are described as follows:

B4 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a thoroughfare-
oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may bene?t by drawing part of
their clientele from passing traf?c are permitted. Additional uses, which may be success?illy
blended with permitted by-right uses, are conditional.

MZ RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
This district is designed for a wide range of industrial and related uses which can function with a
minimum of undesirable effects. Industrial establishments of this type provide a buffer between

residential districts and intensive industrial districts. New residential construction is excluded
from this district with the exception ofloft conversions ofexisting buildings and ofresidential
uses combined in structures with permitted commercial uses. These requirements are both to
protect residences from an undesirable environment and to ensure reservation of adequate areas
for industrial development.

M4 INTENSIVE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

This district will permit uses which are usually objectionable and, therefore, the district is rarely,
if ever, located adjacent to residential districts. A broad range of uses is permitted in this district.
New residences are prohibited with the exception of loft conversions of existing buildings and 0f
residential uses combined in structures with permitted commercial uses. These requirements are
to protect residences from an undesirable environment and to ensure reservation of adequate
areas for industrial development.

SD2 SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT, MIXED-USE

This district is designed to encourage a complementary mixture of more intensive pedestrian-
and transit-oriented uses that may be compatible with a neighborhood center or with a location
along major or secondary thoroughfares. Parking requirements are reduced in certain
circumstances to promote use of transit and non-motorized transportation; shared parking and a
district approach to parking are encouraged to lessen demand for off-street parking spaces.
Certain establishments that serve alcohol for consumption on the premises are permitted without
a spacing requirement in order to attract increased pedestrian traffic to the area.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval ofthe City Council after a public
hearing and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission.
This Zoning Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the
provisions of Article 111, Division 3 of Chapter 61 ofthe 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit
Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are
affected by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your
neighbors so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313) 224-4950, through the
TTY number 711, or email crio@detroitmi.aov to schedule these services.

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

R2

B4 R2.

5 


Rezoning to SD2

 

 

 

R2
R2 34

DALZELLE


ru13' . 

.mag


 

 

.fl 

114TH

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rezoning to M2

