 qu UUMJ
It? I 8

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437
PHONE 313?224?4550

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224.5505

LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

November 2, 2018

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Chapter 22 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Handling of Solid Waste and
Prevention of Illegal Dumping, Article I, In General, Division 2, Civil Fines
for Violations

Honorable City Council:

At the request of Miriam Blanks-Smart, Director of the Department of Appeals and
Hearings, the Law Department has prepared and approved as to form the above-referenced
ordinance amendments for your consideration. The proposed amendments create uniform
measurements for determining blight Violations and ?nes related to illegal dumping of solid waste,
as well as allow for higher ?nes related to illegally dumping larger quantities of solid waste.

 

Assistant Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit Law Department
(313) 237-3008

10

11

12

13

14

A 

This ordinance amends Chapter 22 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Handling of Solid Waste
and Prevention of Illegal Dumping, Article I, In General, Division 2, Civil Fines for Violations,
by amending Section 22-1-14, Civil fines for violation of Sections 22?2?83 and 22-2-
84(a) and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, and 22-2-96 and 22-297 of this Code
regarding solid waste except for medical waste and hazardous waste; cost of removal incurred by
City of Detroit; factors to be considered by hearings officer when determining fine; burden of
proof for factors upon violator, and Article 11, Storage, Preparation, Collection, Transport,
Disposal, and Placement, Division 5, Illegal Dumping by amending Section 22-2-83, Dumping,
storing or depositing solid waste, medical waste, hazardous waste or- bulk solid material on any
publicly owned property, or private property or water, without permit, to provide: uniform
measurements for determining blight violations related to illegal dumping of solid waste; uniform
measurements for determining ?nes related to illegal dumping of solid waste; and an additional

classi?cation and higher ?nes related to illegally dumping larger quantities of solid waste.

COUNCILMEMBER
AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 22 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Handling of Solid

 

Waste and Prevention of Illegal Dumping, Article I, In General, Division 2, Civil Fines for
Violations, by amending Section 22?1-14, Civil fines for violation of Sections and
and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, and 22-2-96 and 22-297 of this
Code regarding solid waste except for medical waste and hazardous waste; cost of removal
incurred by City of Detroit; factors to be considered by hearings o?icer when determining fine;
burden of proof for factors upon violator, and Article II, Storage, Preparation, Collection,
Transport, Disposal, and Placement, Division 5, Illegal Dumping by amending Section 22-2-83,
Dumping, storing or depositing solid waste, medical waste, hazardous waste or bulk solid material
on any publicly owned property, or private property or water, without permit, to provide: uniform
measurements for determining blight Violations related to illegal dumping of solid waste; uniform
measurements for determining ?nes related to illegal dumping of solid waste; and an additional

classi?cation and higher ?nes related to illegally dumping larger quantities of solid waste.

HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:
Section 1. Chapter 22 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Handling of Solid Waste and
Prevention of Illegal Dumping, Article I, In General, Division 2, Civil Fines for Violations, is
amended by amending Section 22-1-14, and Article 11, Storage, Preparation, Collection,
Transport, Disposal, and Placement, Division 5, Illegal Dumping is amended by amending

Section 22?2-83 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 22. HANDLING OF SOLID WASTE AND
PREVENTION OF ILLEGAL DUMPING
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Division 2. Civil Fines for Violations

Sec. 22-1-14. Civil fines for violation of Sections and 22-2-84(a) and 
(2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96 and 22?2397 of this Code regarding solid
waste except for medical waste and hazardous waste; cost of removal incurred by City of
Detroit; factors to be considered by hearings of?cer when determining fine; burden of proof
for factors upon violator.

A person who violates any of the provisions of Sections 22-2-84(a) and
(2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96-or 22?2-97 of this Code regarding solid
waste, where the amount of the solid waste is less than ?ve (5) cubic yards fe_et in volume, is
responsible for a blight violation and, for the ?rst violation, is subject to a civil ?ne o_f1wei=ruaelaeel
and, in accordance with Section 22?1-31 of this Code, is responsible for the cost
of removal by the City of Detroit.

A person who violates any of the provisions of Sections 22-2-83(c) and 22-2-

84(a) and (2) and (4), 22?2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96 or 22?2-97 of this Code, where

the amount of the solid waste is ?ve 99 or more cubic yards ?t in volume but less than ten?(10)
cubic yards fe_et in volume, is responsible for a blight violation and, for the ?rst violation, is subject
to a civil ?ne of and, in accordance with Section 22-1-3lof this Code, is
responsible for the cost of removal by the City of Detroit.

(0) A person who violates any of the provisions of Sections 22-2-83(c) and 22-2-
84(a) and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and (0), 22-2-96 or 22-2-97 of this Code, where
the amount of the solid waste is ten?(10) or more cubic l?eet in volume but less than 15 cubic feet
in volume. is responsible for a blight violation and, for the ?rst violation, is subject to a civil ?ne
of and, in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code, is
responsible for the cost of removal by the City of Detroit.

{Ll} A person who violates anv of the provisions of Section and 
and and 22-2-37. 22-2?83tb) and 224-96 or 22?2-97 of this Code. where the
amount of the solid wesle is ?l?tecn (15] or more cubic feet in volume is responsible for a blight
violation and. for the ?rst violation. is subiect to a civil ?ne of $1,500.00 and. in accordance
with Section 22-1-31 ot?tliis Code. is responsible for the cost of removal bv the Cilv ot?Detroit.

{e19 For a repeat or subsequent blight violation under sections 22-2-84(a)
and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and (0), 22-2?96 or 22-2?97 of this Code, where the
amount of the solid waste is less than ?ve (69 cubic yards in volume, a person shall be subject
to a civil ?ne of not less than but not more than 
($500.00) and, in accordance with Section 22-1-31 of this Code, is responsible for the cost of
removal by the City of Detroit.

(D For a repeat or subsequent blight violation under Sections and 22?

2-84(a) and (2) and (4), 2212-87, 22-2-88(b) and (0), 22-2-96 or 22-2?97 of this Code,

where the amount of the solid waste is ?ve (5) or more cubic yards Eel in volume but less than
ten (10) cubic yards f_egt in volume, a person shall be subject to a civil ?ne of not less than ?ve
but not more than and, in accordance
with section 22-1?31 of this Code, is responsible for the cost of removal by the City of Detroit.
For a repeat or subsequent blight violation under sections 22-2-83(c) and 2?2-
84(a) 32-11-84 a and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96 or 22-2-97 of this

Code, where the amount of the solid waste is ten (10) or more cubic yards in volume but less

 

than I 5 cubic feet in volume, a person shall be subject to a civil ?ne of not less than ease?thetrsan?

 

but not more than WWIWMJOQOO) and, in
accordance with section 22?1-3 10f this Code, is responsible for the cost of removal by the City of
Detroit.

(11) For a repeat or subsequent blight violation under Section 22-2-83tc} and id). 22-2-
84( a) and 1). (2) and (4). 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96 or 32-2-97 of this Code. where
the amount of the solid waste is 15 cubic feet or more in volume. a person shall be subiect to 
civil line of not less than but not more than $1000.00 and. in accordance
with section 22-1-3lol? this Code. is responsible for the cost ofremoval by the City ol'Detroit.

(1) Each day on which any violation of any of the provisions of Sections 
and 22-2-84(a) and (2) and (4), 22-2-87, 22-2-88(b) and 22-2-96 or 22?2-97 of
this Code continues shall constitute a separate violation. The imposition of a ?ne under this section
shall not be construed to excuse or to permit the continuation of any violation and, upon a blight
violation determination may be subject to a civil ?ne for each day the violation continues. The

determination as to whether an act or a failure to act is a continuing violation is within the

discretion of the hearings of?cer.





(?h9 When determining the amount of a civil ?ne for a blight violation that is issued

under Subsections er or 1h) of this section, the hearings of?cer shall

consider all of the following factors:

(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)

(6)
(7)
(8)

The type of solid waste;

The nature of the violation;

The duration of the violation;

The preventability of the violation;

The potential and actual effect on the surrounding neighborhood or the
environment;

The economic bene?t to the violator;

The violator's recalcitrance or efforts to comply with law; and

The economic impact of the ?ne on the violator.

These factors shall only be considered where the hearings of?cer determines that the violator has

made all good faith efforts to correct and terminate the violation. The violator shall have the burden

of proof regarding the presence and degree of any factor to be considered by the hearings of?cer

in determining the amount of the ?ne. In each case, the ?ne shall be set within the range that is

delineated in subsections or gg) or of this section for the corresponding

amount of solid waste.

ARTICLE II. STORAGE, PREPARATION,
COLLECTION, TRANSPORT, DISPOSAL, AND PLACEMENT
Division 5. Illegal Dumping
Sec. 22-2-83. Dumping, storing or depositing solid waste, medical waste, hazardous waste, or
bulk solid material on any publicly owned property, or private property or water, without
permit.

No person shall dump, store or deposit or cause to be dumped, stored or deposited,
on any publicly-owned property, or private property or water, within the City of Detroit any solid
waste, medical waste or hazardous waste, except at a waste disposal or storage facility for which
a permit or operating license has been properly issued pursuant to the provisions of this Code and
of other local, state and federal law. Such dumping, storing, or depositing without a permit is
declared to be a blight Violation. A police of?cer may impound a vehicle that is operated in the
commission of a blight violation in accordance with Section 22?1-32 of this Code.

Dumping, depositing, or placing solid waste less than ?ve cubic yards on any
private property, public property, right-of-way or surface water or around any approved or portable
container, or dumping solid waste less than ?ve cubic feet from a a_nv motor vehicle, is littering
and is hereby deemed unlawful and subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

(0) Unless otherwise provided for in this division, dumping, storing, depositing of solid
waste in an amount of ?ve cubic yards or more on any private property, public property, right-
of?way or surface water or around any approved or portable container is illegal dumping and is
hereby deemed unlawful and subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

Dumping, or depositing solid waste of ?ve cubic feet or more from any motor

vehicle upon any public highway, city street, public or private property or water or causing such

solid waste to be dumped or deposited from a motor vehicle is illegal dumping and is hereby
deemed unlawful and subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

Dumping, storing, depositing or placing medical waste or hazardous waste in any
discernable quantity on any private property, public property, right-of-way or surface water or
around any approved or potable container is illegal dumping and is hereby deemed unlawful and
is subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

(1) Dumping or depositing medical or hazardous waste in any discernable quantity
from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, city street, public or private property or water
or causing such solid waste to be dumped or deposited from any motor vehicle is illegal dumping
and is hereby deemed unlawful and is subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter.

Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, dumping, storing, depositing, or
transporting bulk solid material on any private property, public property, right of way, or surface
water or around any approved or portable container is illegal dumping and is a blight violation
subject to the ?nes and penalties provided for in this chapter. Asphalt millings removed as part of
a public paving or repaving project (a project conducted, controlled or funded by the governments
or agencies of the City of Detroit, the County of Wayne, the State of Michigan, or the United
States) and temporarily stored on or adjacent to that project for reuse in that project is not illegal
dumping if the temporary storage period does not exceed 45 days.

Violations of article of this chapter not described by section including
but not limited to the escape of fugitive dust from an otherwise authorized collection of bulk solid
material in an amount that exceeds the opacity limit speci?ed in MCL regardless of
quali?cation under MCL is unlawful and is subject to the ?nes and penalties provided

for in this chapter.

10

11

12

13

Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. Where this ordinance is passed by a two thirds majority of City Council
Members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon publication
in accordance with Section 4-118(1) of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is
passed by less than two thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become
effective thirty (3 0) days after publication in accordance with Section 4-118(2) of the 2012 Detroit
City Charter.

Approved as to form:

14 WJW

15
16
17

Lax-vrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL ER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL Dlzt?tl-t I ?uit NI (3I3) 224-0484 - 

MLGOV

pr.

   

October 24, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: ADDRESS: 291 Chandler
NAME: Vintage Real Estate LLC
Date ordered removed: April 28, 2014

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering
and Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following 

A special inspection on October 19, 2018 revealed the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the prOperty is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral
request for this property.

Therefore, it is recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date that
notice was provided to the applicant of the City Council decision.

2. The oWner must contact BSEED to request a progress inspection within forty-five (45) calendar days
from the date of the rehabilitation permit and thereafter submit inspection reports every forty-?ve (45)
calendar days to BSEED to demonstrate progress during the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected and be maintained
securely barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation is to be complete within six (6)
months, at which time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

- Certificate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
Certi?cate of Inspection, required for all residential rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined
above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.
At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inSpection to evidence that conditions of
the deferral have been maintained and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. if the building becomes
open to treSpass or if conditions of the deferral are not followed, we may proceed with demolition without ?nther hearings. And,

pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Resp tiliy subinitte

   

Director
DB:bkd

cc: Vintage Real Estate LLC, 3445 Joseph Campau, Detroit, MI 48207
Al iN: Kevin Ward

CITY CLERK i HUU 21313 mot-14

   

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, SAFE l?Y ENGINEERING AND (313)224-0484 - 



October 24, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: ADDRESS: 15767 Beaverland
NAME: Genas Sproule 
Date ordered removed: April 18, 2016

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering
and Environmental Department (BS EED) submits the following information:

A special inspection on October 23, 2013 revealed the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner's use and occupancy. This is the l" deferral
request for this property.

Therefore, it is recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within g! (10) business days from the date that
notice was provided to the applicant of the City Council decision.

2. The owner must contact BSEED to request a progress Inapection within for?-five (45) calendar days
from the date of the rehabilitation permit and thereafter submit inspection reports every forty-?ve [45)
calendar days to BSEED to demonstrate progress during the appraised time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all inuninently hazardous conditions immediately corrected and be maintained
securely barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation is to be complete within six (6)
months, at which time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
II Certificate of Inspection, required for all residential rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined
above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deform] period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of
the deferral have been maintained and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. if the building becomes
Open to trespass or ii?conditions of the deferral are not followed, we may proceed with demolition without hearings. And,
pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

 



cc: Gena Sproule, 15346 Fielding ST, Detroit, MI 48223

iZITir' CLERK i HEIU 21318 Netti-4

is: A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ave, FOURTH FLOOR

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

4; @q 2 WOODWARD AVE, FOURTH FLOOR

 
 
 

CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 


October 24, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: ADDRESS: 12811 Terry
NAME: Custom Links Enterprises LLC
Date ordered removed: July 23, 2012

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering
and Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection on October 22, 2018 revealed the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1" deferral
request for this property.

Therefore, it is recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within Leg (10) business days from the date that
notice was provided to the applicant of the City Council decision.

2. The owner must contact BSEED to request a progress inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days
from the date of the rehabilitation permit and thereafter submit inspection reports every forty-?ve (45)
calendar days to BSEED to demonstrate progress during the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected and be maintained
securely barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation is to be complete within six (6)
months, at which time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

I Certificate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certificate of Inspection, required for a_ll residential rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined
above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.
At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of
the deferral have been maintained and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes
open to trespass or if conditions of the deferral are not followed, we may proceed with demolition without ?irther hearings. And,

pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office of the City Clerk.

'l

 

Director



cc Customs Links Enterprises LLC, 12810 Robson ST, Detroit, MI 48227
Jessica S. Meaux, PO. Box 27819, Detroit, Ml 48227

CLERK i HEIU 201:3 Phi-4:14

COLEMAN A. YOUNG 

2 WOODWARD AVE., FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DETROIT DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND (313) 224-0484 - TTYz7ll
1 M1 .GOV

 
 
 

October 29, 2018 
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: 15867 Burt RD

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted
above, we submit the following information:.

A special inspection conducted on October 24, 2018 revealed that the property did not
meet the requirements of the application to defer. The property continues to be open to
trespass and not maintained.

Therefore, we respectfully recommend that the request for a deferral be denied. We will

proceed to have building demolished as originally ordered with the cost of demolition
assessed against the property.

submitted,

David ell

Building Of?cial

Re5pectfu



cc: Srinivasu Angadala, 4405 Norwalk 4, San Jose, CA 95129

CITY CLERK 1 2018 std-4:13:

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 611
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313)224-3901 - 

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (313) 224?1464

 

ADMINISTRATION DIVISION 


OPERATING AGREEMENT

This OPERATING AGREEMENT (?Agreement?) is entered into as of the Effective Date, as
herein de?ned, by and between the CITY OF DETROIT, a Michigan municipal corporation
acting through its Department of Public Works located at the Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 6i 1, Detroit, Michigan 43226, and MAVEN
DRIVE LLC, a Delaware limited liability company located at 29360 William
Durant Blvd, MS: 480-1 1 Warren, Michigan 48092-2025. The CITY and MAVEN may
each be referred to herein as a ?Party? or collectively as the ?Parties? to this Agreement, as
applicable.

RECITALS

Whereas, the CITY owns and operates public parking facilities, including surface parking lots,
parking garages, and other facilities (?City Facilities?) in Detroit; and

Whereas, the CITY maintainsjurisdiction over certain streets, roads, and other public rights of
way within Detroit (?City and, within its authority to protect the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare within Detroit, administers and enforces various ordinances, rules, and other
requirements to manage the flow of traf?c along City ROW, including use for vehicular parking;
and

Whereas, the CITY desires to reduce overall traffic congestion within the City ROW and
demand on public parking resources, as well as to facilitate access to a variety of transpOItation
alternatives and increase the mobility options available to Detroit residents and visitors; and

Whereas, the CITY desires to decrease vehicle emissions and overall air pollution levels in
Detroit; and

Whereas, car sharing programs have demonstrated the ability to improve the mobility options
for individuals in urban environments, reduce overall traf?c congestion and demand on public
parking resources, and decrease vehicle emissions and air pollution levels in areas in which they
Operate; and

Whereas, MAVEN operates a member-based transportation, car rental, and car sharing service,
whereby MAVEN makes a ?eet of vehicles (?Shared Vehicles?) available to its members on a
self-service basis for hourly, daily, and other short-term rental periods through an automated
online and app-based reservation and membership account platform; and

Whereas, MAVEN does not constitute a ?limousine carrier,? a ?taxicab carrier,? a
?transportation network company,? or a ?dispatch system provider? as de?ned in Michigan
Public Act 345 of 2016 or any associated administrative rules or regulations, and is not subject to
Public Act 345 or its rules or regulations; and

 

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit and Maven Drive, LLC desires to increase the
accessibility of Car sharing program in multiple neighborhoods in Detroit
through the strategic utilization of parking spaces located in City Facilities and within the
City ROW (?Pilot Program?);

WHEREAS, the purpose of this agreement is to set forth the terms and conditions under
which the Parties will expand accessibility of car sharing opportunities throughout
Detroit through implementation of the City?s car sharing Pilot Program. As part of this
Pilot Program, the CITY will ease or license certain parking spaces located within 
owned lots and garages and the CITY ROW (?Dedicated Spaces?) to MAVEN for
exclusive use for Shared Vehicles. Also as part of this Pilot Program,
MAVEN will utilize those Dedicated Spaces for the exclusive purpose of operating is car
sharing service in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth herein

RESOLVED, the CITY hereby leases to MAVEN, and MAVEN herby leases from the
CITY, the Dedicated Spaces located in or on City Facilities in such numbers and at such
locations as are determined by mutual agreement of the Parties. The City hereby licenses
to MAVEN, and MAVEN hereby licenses from the CITY, the exclusive use of Dedicated
Spaces located within the City ROW in such numbers and at such locations as are
determined by mutual agreement of the Parties.

PROVIDED, the initial numbers and locations of the Dedicated Spaces are provided in
detail in Exhibit A of the Agreement. The numbers and locations of the Dedicated Spaces
may be revised from time to time by mutual agreement of the Parties.

PROVIDED, the Dedicated Spaces will be for exclusive use and occupancy.
The use is soles for the purposes of parking Shared Vehicles as part of its operation of its
car sharing service.

PROVIDED, MAVEN agrees to that Dedicated Spaces must be geographically
distributed, for every two (2) Dedicates Spaces within the Greater Downtown Area, at
least one (1) Dedicated Space will be located outside the Greater Downtown Area.

PROVIDED, both Parties will adhere to the language of the Agreement regarding
signage, maintenance, utilization, exclusivity, enforcement, con?icting uses and
temporary relocation.

2.05:

2.06:

not authorized to be used for long-term storage, traditional water-based washing, or
maintenance or repair of vehicles, including Shared Vehicles, or for any purpose other
than the parking of Shared Vehicles. use and occupancy of any Dedicated
Space for any purpose other than the operation of its car sharing service, or its failure to
use any Dedicated Space in accordance with its customary policies and procedures and
the terms and conditions set forth herein, will constitute a default of such lease or license
of that Dedicated Space.

Distribution of Dedicated Spaces. At any time during the term of this Agreement, the
Dedicated Spaces must be geographically distributed, such that for every two (2)
Dedicated Spaces located within the Greater Downtown Area at least one (1) Dedicated
Space will be located outside the Greater Downtown Area, as defined in Exhibit of this
Agreement. Of the Dedicated Spaces to be located outside the Greater Downtown Area,
the Parties will make reasonable efforts to consider locating such spaces Within the
neighborhoods identi?ed by the Detroit Planning and Development Department as
?twenty-minute neighborhoods.?

Signage at Dedicated Spaces. As part of use and occupancy of each
Dedicated Space, MAVEN will provide at its sole cost and expense signage for each
Dedicated Space that is suf?cient to clearly identify the Dedicated Space as for the
exclusive use and occupancy of a Shared Vehicle.

MAVEN will design, fabricate, and deliver signage to the CITY for installation.
Such signage must be constructed of metal or other durable material, identify the
Dedicated Space as being associated with car sharing service and
clearly identify name, branding, and contact information, and state
that such Dedicated Space is for the exclusive use and occupancy of a Shared
Vehicle. The design and content of such signage is subject to reasonable approval
by the CITY for adherence to these criteria.

The CITY will install signage at each Dedicated Space. Such signage should, to
the extent feasible, be located in the sidewalk portion of the CITY ROW adjacent
to the Dedicated Space, be posted on a freestanding pole at a height not to exceed
seven (7) feet above the sidewalk grade level.

(0) The CITY will remove all such signage upon the earlier of the expiration or
termination of this Agreement, and (ii) any individual sign within a reasonable
period after MAVEN ceases using the Dedicated Spaces associated therewith
pursuant to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement.

All costs and expenses associated with any activities associated with the signage
described herein, including their design, fabrication, delivery, installation, and
removal are solely and exclusively Before installing or removing any
such signage, the CITY must notify MAVEN in writing of the cost thereof and
the proposed location of such signage. 1f the cost or location of any such
installation is unacceptable to MAVEN, then MAVEN may decline to lease or
license the Dedicated Space associated with such signage. if the cost of any such
removal is unacceptable to MAVEN, then MAVEN may remove such signage at
its sole cost and expense and in compliance with all Applicable Laws. lf
MAVEN fails to respond to any notice required by this paragraph within ?fteen

3

2.07:

(15) business days after receipt thereof, then MAVEN will be deemed to have
consented to the cost set forth therein.

Notwithstanding any provision of this Section to the contrary, (1), CITY, at
sole cost and expense, shall be solely responsible for obtaining all
governmental approvals required by Applicable Laws to install, maintain, and
remove such signs including, but not limited to, permits for encroachment and
construction, as applicable, and (ii) it shall be a condition precedent to Maven?s
duty to pay CITY the fee for each Dedicated Space that CITY install the signage
referenced in this Section in accordance with this Section. Any payment due by
MAVEN to CITY pursuant to this Section shall be payable within sixty (60) days
after the date that MAVEN receives an invoice, accompanied by reasonable
evidence, therefor. 

Maintenance of Dedicated Spaces. MAVEN will keep all Dedicated Spaces in generally
clean, sanitary and safe condition and in good order and repair. MAVEN will be
responsible for regular cleaning and maintenance of Dedicated Spaces at its own expense,
including removal of debris, glass, garbage, snow, and other obstacles from each
Dedicated Space and its immediate vicinity. In the event that any Dedicated Space is
damaged or destroyed, MAVEN will notify the CITY of such damage or
destruction, take whatever steps as may be reasonably necessary to prevent further
damage or destruction, and coordinate with the City for the repair, restoration, or
reconstruction of the Dedicated Space in accordance with applicable standard
Specifications.

2.08: Utilization of Dedicated Spaces. MAVEN must use each Dedicated Space for no less than

2.09:

2.10

seventy-?ve percent of the time during each month. A Dedicated Space will be
considered in ?use? by MAVEN if it is physically occupied by a Shared Vehicie that is
available for use by a member of car sharing service or ifthe Shared Vehicle
associated with the Dedicated Space is in use by a member of car sharing
serwce.

Exclusivity. No other tenant, occupant, or car share service has or will have any right to
use or occupy the Dedicated Spaces assigned to MAVEN under the Pilot Program for the
duration of this Agreement.

Enforcement. To provide for exclusive use and occupancy of the Dedicated
Spaces, the CITY will strictly enforce the following traf?c and parking standards for
Dedicated Spaces:

Dedicated Spaces are exclusively available for the use of Shared Vehicles

A Dedicated Space may be occupied by any Shared Vehicle without temporal or
durational limitations.

(0) Vehicles other than Shared Vehicles occupying a Dedicated Space are subject to
the customary parking enforcement measures.

2.11:

2.12:

3.01:

3.02:

Shared Vehicles occupying any Dedicated Space in violation of the standards,
terms, and conditions of this Agreement are subject to the customary
parking enforcement measures.

As part of its enforcement efforts, the CITY may install curbside painting, striping, and
other markings suf?cient to clearly identify the Dedicated Spaces. MAVEN
acknowledges that such traf?c and parking enforcement standards under the 
general authority to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public and as such will
be generally applicable to all vehicles operating within the City ROW, including but not
limited to Shared Vehicles.

Con?icting Uses and Temporary Relocations. MAVEN understands and acknowledges
that the City Facilities and City ROW may be subject to multiple conflicting uses,
including but not limited to construction or excavation activities, street closures, or
Special events (?Con?icting Use?) that may from time to time render one or more
Dedicated Spaces unavailable to MAVEN and its members. In the event of a Conflicting
Use, MAVEN must remove Shared Vehicles from all affected Dedicated Spaces prior to
the scheduled commencement of the Con?icting Use and cause such Dedicated Spaces to
remain free of Shared Vehicles for the duration of the Conflicting Use. The CITY will
use reasonable efforts to provide MAVEN with no less than seventy-two (72) hours?
advance notice of any Con?icting Use. Such notice will include the expected geographic
range and duration of the Con?icting Use, as well as other additional information, to the
extent possible, that MAVEN may reasonably need to provide sufficient
accommodations. If the Conflicting Use is scheduled or otherwise reasonably expected to
last for more than seventy-two (72) consecutive hours, then the CITY and MAVEN will
collaborate to temporarily relocate all affected Dedicated Spaces to mutually agreeable
alternative locations for the duration of the Con?icting Use.

Right of Entry. The CITY and its authorized representatives have the right to enter the
Dedicated Spaces at all reasonable times for the purpose of examination or inspection to
ensure compliance with this Agreement.

ARTICLE CAR SHARING OPERATIONAL STANDARDS

Car Sharing Service. MAVEN operates a membership-based car sharing service that
includes an automated online reservation and membership account platform, telephone
and online customer support service, and keyless vehicle entry system. MAVEN will
make its car sharing service available to its members on a self-service basis twenty-four
(24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week. MAVEN will make all Dedicated Spaces
and associated Shared Vehicles accessible to its general membership as part of the
ordinary Operations of its car sharing service and will not restrict such accessibility to
certain members, limited hours or other similar limitations.

Vehicle Maintenance. MAVEN will keep all Shared Vehicles in clean condition, free of
dust, garbage, discarded items, and other debris, and will maintain all Shared Vehicles in

3.03

3.04:

3.05:

3.06:



good working order in accordance with all applicable manufacturer maintenance
recommendations.

Vehicle Registration and Inspection. MAVEN must ensure that all Shared Vehicles are

registered in the State of Michigan and are at all times in compliance with the Michigan
Vehicle Code, including all applicable inspection and insurance requirements.

Fees and Fines. MAVEN will be responsible for the timely payment of all fees and ?nes
associated with Dedicated Spaces and Shared Vehicles, including but not limited to
registration and permit fees, parking tickets, and moving violations.

Identi?cation of Vehicles. MAVEN must af?x to the exterior of each Shared Vehicle its
logo or other branding to clearly identify the Shared Vehicle as part of its car sharing
service and will maintain such identi?cation in good and legible condition. To further
facilitate identi?cation of Shared Vehicles by the CITY, MAVEN may provide the CITY
with the vehicle identi?cation number, or other similar identi?cation information, of each
Shared Vehicle.

Emissions Standards. MAVEN must ensure that Shared Vehicles comply with US
Environmental Protection Agency Tier 3 emissions standards.

ARTICLE IV: COMPENSATION

Compensation. As compensation for is lease or license of the Dedicated Spaces,
MAVEN will pay to the CITY a sum equal to the number of Dedicated Spaces of each
type (City Facility, metered City ROW, non-metered City ROW) multiplied by the fee
per Dedicated Space of each type, as set forth in the following schedule:

 

Location Type: Fee (per Dedicated Space, per month):

City Facility [Applicable Parking Rate at City Facility]
Metered City ROW $125

Non-Metered ROW $62.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Such payment will be calculated as ([number of City Facility Dedicated Spaces]
[Fee for Dedicated Spaces in City Facilities]) ([number of Metered City ROW
Dedicated Spaces] [Fee for Metered Cizy ROW Dedicated SpacesD ([number of Non-
Metered ROW Dedicated Spaces] [Fee for Non-Metered City ROWDedicated
SpacesD.

The fee for each type of Dedicated Space may be revised from time to time by mutual
agreement of the Parties, to become effective not less than thirty (30) days following the
date that such revision is executed in writing by the Parties. Any such revision will
supplement, but will not constitute an amendment to, this Agreement. The Parties may
use the form of the ?Operating Agreement Supplement,? attached hereto in Exhibit C, to
so supplement this section.

4.02

4.03:

4.04:

5.01

Compensation for the lease or license of a Dedicated Space for a portion of any month
may be prorated on a per-diam basis. The prorated compensation will be calculated as the
applicable fee, divided by the number of days in the month, multiplied by the
number of days that the Dedicated Space is in use, including when a Dedicated Space is
unavailable due to Conflicting Uses, per Section herein, ifa suitable relocatitm is
found. if a Dedicated Space is not dedicated for use for any day in a given month, then no
payment will be due for such Dedicated Space for such month.

Invoice and Payment. MAVEN will submit all payments to the CITY on a 
basis. For each respective month, MAVEN will pay all amounts due on or prior to the
?rst business day of every month. Payments are payable to ?City of Detroit Municipal
Parking Department? and will be submitted to the City at the address provided in Section
13.0] herein, or such other address as the CITY may from time to time designate in
writing to MAVEN.

Rate Changes. The CITY may from time to time and in its sole discretion adjust its
parking fees at City Facilities or its meter rates. MAVEN acknowledges and agrees that
the fees associated with each Dedicated Space are subject to change at rates in
accordance with any adjustments by the CITY to the parking fees at City Facilities or
meter rates. The CITY will provide MAVEN with at least thirty (30) days advance notice
prior to the effective date of any changes to fees associated with Dedicated Spaces.

Holding Over. lf MAVEN retains possession of any one or more Dedicated Spaces after
the expiration or termination of this Agreement by lapse of time or otherwise, MAVEN
will continue its tenancy or licensure, as applicable, from month to month under the terms
and conditions of this Agreement until an amendment or new agreement is executed
between the City and MAVEN, or until the CITY serves a notice to vacate upon
MAVEN, or until MAVEN vacates all Dedicated Premises. The provisions of this
Section are not to be deemed to limit or exclude any of the City?s rights of reentry or any
other right granted to City according to the terms of this Agreement or under law.

ARTICLE V: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

License. The Parties agree that the use of their names, logos, trademarks, and service
marks (?Marks?) may be helpful in providing public communications regarding car
sharing. Each Party hereby grants to the other Party a non-exclusive, non?transferrable,
royalty-free license to use its Marks to notify members of the availability of
Shared Vehicles at the Dedicated Spaces and to generally promote the overall
accessibility of car sharing in Detroit. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, no
license under any existing or future trademark of either Party, by implication or
otherwise, is granted to the other Party under this Agreement. A Party?s license to use its
Marks may be revoked by the Party at any time, whereupon the other Party must
immediately cease its use of such Marks.

ARTICLE VI: REPORTING AND RECORDKEEPING

6.01:

6.02:

6.03:

6.04:

Survey. No later than twelve (12) months following the Effective Date of this Agreement
and annually thereafter, MAVEN will survey its local members, including those members
whom MAVEN identi?es as Detroit residents and those members who have rented a
Shared Vehicle located in Detroit at any time in the preceding twelve (12) months, to
determine such members? general satisfaction with car sharing services in
Detroit, which may include but will not necessarily be limited to members? satisfaction
with:

The accessibility and geographic dispersion of the Shared Vehicles in Detroit;

The types of Shared Vehicles available in Detroit;

Pricing; and

The use of car sharing among other modes of transportation, such as personal
vehicle, taxi/limo, public transit, bicycle, etc.

The specific form, content, design, and other parameters of the survey will be determined
by mutual agreement of the Parties. Upon completion of the each survey, MAVEN will
submit to the City all raw data, as well as all associated analyses and reporting, if any,
within thirty (30) days after the completion of the survey.

Reporting. Commencing ninety (90) days following the Effective Date of this
Agreement and on a quarterly basis thereafter, MAVEN will submit to the CITY 51 report
of its car sharing operations within Detroit for each preceding quarter. The form and
content of such reports will be determined by mutual agreement of the Parties, and may
include but will not necessarily be limited to:

The number of Shared Vehicles and locations of associated Dedicated Spaces in
Detroit;

The number and geographic distribution of its members identified as Detroit
residents;

The number of members utilizing each Shared Vehicle;

The number of hours for which each Shared Vehicle was reserved; and

The number of vehicle-miles traveled by each Shared Vehicle.

Such reporting will be limited to aggregate data and will not include information on
individual members that MAVEN is obligated to maintain as con?dential.

Meetings. Representatives of the Parties will meet, whether in person or by video or
telephone conference, at their mutual convenience on a periodic basis to review their
performance under this Agreement, the results of reporting and surveys, and
any other relevant issues that may arise from time to time.

Recordkeeping. Each Party will maintain, source documents, records, and other
information pertinent to its activities under this Agreement for a minimum of two (2)
years following the expiration or termination of this Agreement, but in no case for less
time than may be required to maintain compliance with Applicable Laws.

6.05: Con?dentiality. Each Party will keep, all source documents, records, and other

7.01

7.02

7.03:

information pertinent to its activities under this Agreement con?dential and will refrain
from releasing such information to third parties without notice to the other Party, subject
to any disclosure requirements contained in the Michigan Freedom of information Act,
Public Act 442 of 976, as amended, or other Applicable Laws, as de?ned herein.

ARTICLE VII: INSURANCE

Coverage. MAVEN assumes all risks of its operations and use of the Dedicated Spaces
and must maintain at its expense during the term of this Agreement the following
insurance:

 

 

 

Type: Amount Not Less Than:
Workers? Compensation Michigan Statutory minimum
Employers' Liability $500,000.00 minimum each disease

$500,000.00 minimum each person
$500,000.00 minimum each accident

 

Commercial General Liability Insurance $1,000,000.00 each occurrence
(Broad Form Comprehensive) $2,000,000.00 aggregate

 

Automobile Liability insurance (covering all $1,000,000.00 combined single limit
owned, hired and non-owned vehicles with for bodily injury and property damage
personal and property protection insurance,
including residual liability insurance under
Michigan no fault insurance law)

 

 

 

 

MAVEN must provide to the CITY certi?cates of insurance evidencing compliance with
the insurance requirements set forth above.

Additional Insured. commercial general liability insurance policy must
include an endorsement naming the "City of Detroit" as an additional insured. The
additional insured endorsement must provide coverage to the additional insured with
respect to liability arising out of the named insured?s operations at or use of the
Dedicated Spaces. The commercial general liability policy must state that 
insurance is primary and not excess over any insurance already carried by the City of
Detroit and provide blanket contractual liability insurance for all written contracts.

Prior Notice. All insurance policies must be accompanied by a commitment from the
insurer that such policies shall not be canceled or reduced without at least thirty (30) days
prior notice to the City. Certi?cates of insurance evidencing the coverage required by this
Agreement must be submitted to the City upon execution of this Agreement
in a form acceptable to the CITY.

7.04:

7.06:

8.01

8.02

Contractors. If any work is contracted out by MAVEN for any work at the Dedicated
Spaces in connection with this Agreement, MAVEN will require each contractor to
obtain and maintain the types and limits of insurance set forth herein and shall require
documentation of same, copies of which shall be furnished to the CITY.

Deductibles. MAVEN will be responsible for payment of all deductibles contained in
any insurance required under this Agreement. The provisions requiring MAVEN to carry
the insurance required herein shall not be construed in any manner as waiving or
restricting the liability of MAVEN under this Agreement.

Revisions to Coverage. lf during the term of this Agreement, changed conditions or
other pertinent factors, in the reasonable judgment of the CITY, render inadequate the
insurance limits stated above, MAVEN will furnish on demand such additional cotterage
as may reasonably be required under the circumstances. All such additional insurance
will be obtained at expense, under valid and enforceable policies issued by
insurers of recognized responsibility which are well-rated by national rating organizations
and are reasonably acceptable to the CITY.

ARTICLE INDEMNITY

Indemnity. MAVEN will indemnify and save harmless the CITY and all other affiliated,
or subsidiary entities or commissions now existing or hereafter created, their agents and
employees against and from any and all third party liabilities, obligations, damages,
penalties, claims, costs, charges and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable
fees and eXpenses of attorneys, expert witnesses, architects, engineers and other
consultants) which may be imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against CITY by reason
of any of the following occurring at or on the Dedicated Spaces during the term of this
Agreement:

Any work, act, error, omission or thing done in or about the Dedicated Spaces, or
any part thereof or affecting same, by MAVEN or its agents, subcontractors,
employees, licensees, invitees, or associated, af?liated or subsidiary entities of
MAVEN (herein all collectively called ?Associates?) for whose acts any of them
might be liable;

Any use, possession, occupation, or operation of equipment;

(0) Any negligent or tortious act or omission of 

Any failure by MAVEN to perform its obligations under this Agreement; and

Any loss or expense incurred by an employee of the CITY which arises out of or
pursuant to performance or nonperformance under this Agreement.

The laws of the State of Michigan, as interpreted by a Michigan court of law, will be
applied to determine percentages of fault resulting from claims successfully adjudicated
for damages by third parties against MAVEN and the CITY.

Condition of the Dedicated Spaces. MAVEN has examined and inSpected the Dedicated
Spaces and takes them In the event MAVEN ?nds what it determines in its

10

8.03

9.01:

9.02:

9.03:

reasonablejudgment to be a latent defect in a Dedicated Space that was not obvious upon
prior examination and inspection, it may immediately vacate such Dedicated Space
Without obligation to continue payment of fees for the Dedicated Space. The
CITY has made no warranties or representations of whatever nature in connection with
the condition of the City Facilities, City ROW, or Dedicated Spaces, and the CITY will
not be liable for any defects contained therein. The CITY makes no warranties or
representations, express or implied, as to title to its interest in the Dedicated Spaces. In
the event that MAVEN learns that the CITY does not have title to, interest in, or
jurisdiction over a Dedicated Space at any time during the Term, then it may immediately
vacate the Dedicated Space without obligation to continue payment of fees for
the Dedicated Space. Further, the CITY agrees to provide MAVEN either reimbursement
or credit against future fees under this Agreement for any advance fee paid to the CITY
for Dedicated Spaces that have been found to have latent defects or to which the CITY
has no title, interest, orjurisdiction.

Personal Property and Equipment. MAVEN agrees that it is its responsibility to
safeguard its property and equipment that it or its contractors use or have in their
possession on or about the Dedicated Spaces and MAVEN agrees to hold the CITY
harmless for any loss or damage of such property or equipment. Further, except as
otherwise provided herein, the CITY will not be responsible or liable to MAVEN for any
loss or damage that may be occasioned by or through the acts or omissions of third
parties.

ARTICLE IX: EFFECTIVE DATE, TERM, TERMINATION

Term and Effective Date. The term of this Agreement will commence on the Effective
Date and continue for a period of two (2) years, unless otherwise terminated pursuant to
the provisions of this Agreement. The Effective Date of this Agreement will be the date
upon which this Agreement has been fully executed by a duly authorized agent of each
Party and has been approved by the City of Detroit Law Department, and the transactions
contemplated hereby have been approved pursuant to the Resolution of the Detroit City
Council as approved by the Mayor of the City of Detroit.

Termination for Convenience. Either Party may terminate this Agreement by providing
notice of termination to the other Party. Such termination will become effective sixty (60)
days following the date of the notice of termination.

Default and Termination for Cause. Each of the following occurrences constitutes a
default under the Agreement (?Event of Default?):

(3) The failure of MAVEN to submit payments when due;

The material failure by either Party in the performance of any covenant,
obligation, agreement or provision of this Agreement;

The ?ling of a petition by or against MAVEN in any bankruptcy or other
insolvency proceeding; (ii) seeking any relief under any state or federal debtor
relief law; for the appointment of a liquidator or receiver for all or

II

9.04

9.05

10.01:

substantially all of property or for interest in this
Agreement;

The abandonment or vacation by MAVEN of the Dedicated Spaces;

The assignment by MAVEN for the bene?t of its creditors.

Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default under this Agreement, the Party not in
default may notify the defaulting Party in writing. The defaulting Party will have thirty
(30) days after the date of such written notice to cure the default or, in the event of a
default that is not capable of being cured within the 30-day cure period, to diligently
pursue the cure to completion. Failure to cure such default as provided above shall be
considered a material breach of this Agreement. Upon either Party?s material breach of
this Agreement, the Party not in material breach may, in its sole discretion: seek
speci?c performance of the applicable obligation that is the subject of a material breach;
elect to cure or perform the applicable obligation that is the subject of the material
breach; or issue a notice of termination to the Party in material breach, whereupon this
Agreement shall be terminated. In no event and under no circumstances will MAVEN
seek or be entitled to money damages.

No Waiver. No failure by the CITY or MAVEN to insist upon the strict performance of
any covenant, agreement, term, or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right,
power or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof and no acceptance of full or partial
compensation by the CITY during the continuance of any such breach by the CITY shall
constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such covenant, agreement, term, or
condition. No waiver of any breach shall affect or alter this Agreement, but each and
every covenant, agreement, term and condition of this Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequent breach thereof.

Disposition Upon Conclusion or Termination. Upon the conclusion or earlier
termination, whether for convenience or cause, of this Agreement, MAVEN will
unwind its car sharing operations at the Dedicated Spaces. Speci?c actions that
MAVEN will undertake shall include, but are not limited to:

Removal of all Shared Vehicles from Dedicated Spaces;

Removal of all signage from all Dedicated Spaces;

Restoration of all Dedicated Spaces to the same or similar conditions under which
MAVEN ?rst took possession.

Removal of all Dedicated Spaces from automated online reservation
and membership account platform.

ARTICLE X: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS

In General. Each party is individually responsible for remaining in compliance in all
respects with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations, and orders
having the binding effect of law (collectively, ?Applicable Laws?). Neither Party will be
responsible for ensuring the other Party?s compliance with Applicable Laws at any time,
unless so required under Applicable Laws. Any material violation of Applicable Laws by

l2

10.02:

one Party will constitute a material breach and grounds for termination of this Agreement
by the other Party in accordance with Section 9.03, herein.

Non-Discrimination. MAVEN will refrain from refusing, restricting, withholding, or
denying any accommodations, services, privileges, advantages or facilities or otherwise
discriminating, directly or indirectly, against its members or prospective members on the
basis of race, color, ethnicity, national origin, religious beliefs or practices, age,
disability, pregnancy, marital status, parental status, military status, employment or
educational status, gender, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any
other protected classi?cation, in accordance with Chapter 27 of the Detroit City Code and
other Applicable Laws. Notwithstanding the above, all MAVEN members must meet
membership eligibility criteria, including age restrictions, and MAVEN may
terminate any membership in its sole businessjudgment.

10.03: Avoidance of Con?icts. MAVEN represents that it presently has no interest, direct or

indirect, and does not intend during the term of this Agreement to acquire any such
interest or employ any person having any such interest, which would con?ict in any
manner or degree with the performance of this Agreement.

ARTICLE XI: ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASE

11.01 Assignment. Either Party may assign its respective rights and obligations under this

Agreement to an af?liate entity with 15 days? prior written notice and receipt of consent
of the other Party. Such consent shall not be withheld unreasonably by either Party.

11.02: Sublease. MAVEN has no right to sublease or sublicense any Dedicated Space without

12.01:

the prior written consent of the City in each instance. Such consent may be withheld by
the City for any reason or no reason whatsoever. Any sublease or sublicense in violation
of this Section constitutes a material and non-curable breach for which the City may
terminate the Agreement immediately upon notice to MAVEN.

ARTICLE XII: AMENDMENTS

Amendments. The Parties may from time to time consider it in their best interest to
change, modify or extend a term, condition or covenant of this Agreement. Any such
change, modi?cation or extension, which is mutually agreed upon by and between the
parties shall be incorporated in a written amendment (?Amendment?) to this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties may revise the numbers and locations of
Dedicated Spaces in accordance with Section 2.03 herein, as well as the fee for each type
of Dedicated Space in accordance with Section 4.01 herein, which will constitute a
supplement of, and not an amendment to, this Agreement. No Amendment to this
Agreement will be effective unless it is in Writing, expressly makes reference to this
Agreement, is executed by a duly authorized representative of each Party, is approved by
the City of Detroit Law Department, and is approved pursuant to Resolution of the
Detroit City Council, as approved by the Mayor of the City of Detroit, that incorporates
such Amendment.

13

ARTICLE NOTICES

13.01 Notices. All notices, requests, noti?cations, and other communications (collectively,
?Notices?) related to this Agreement will be given by a Party in writing, signed by an
authorized representative of the Party, and hand delivered, mailed by ?rst-class mail, or
mailed by overnight courier and addressed as follows:

If to the CITY: Detroit Department of Public Works
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 61]
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Attention: Ron Brundidge

With a copy to: City of Detroit Of?ce of Mobility Innovation
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1126
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Attention: Mark De la Vergne

For notices issued

under Section 9.03,

with a copy to: City of Detroit Law Department
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 501
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Attention: Lawrence Garcia

if to MAVEN: Maven Drive LLC
Warren Technical Center
29360 William Durant Blvd.
MS: 480-111-31

Warren, Michigan 48092-2025
Attention: Chief Operating Of?cer

With a copy to: Maven Drive LLC Legal
300 Renaissance Center
482-D39-B32
Detroit, Michigan 48265
Attention: Maven Legal

With a copy to: 0/0 Real Estate
300 Renaissance Center
MC 

l4

14.01:

14.02:

14.03:

14.04

14.05:

14.06:

Detroit, MT 48265
Attention: Global Director of Real Estate

All Notices shall be deemed given on the day of mailing. Either Party to this Agreement
may change its address for the receipt of Notices at any time by giving written notice
thereof to the other as herein provided. Any Notice given by a Party must be signed by
any authorized representative of such Party.

ARTICLE XIV: MISCELLANEOUS TERMS

Independent Parties. The Parties acknowledge and agree that the CITY and MAVEN
are independent of each other and do not intend, as a result of this Agreement or
otherwise, to become ajoint venture, partners, employees, servants, agents,
representatives, contractors, or any type of related business entities to one another with
respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.

Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the bene?t
of any of the successors and assigns of the Parties, subject to the restrictions on
assignment contained herein.

Non?exclusivity. Subject to Section 2.09 herein, the Patties acknowledge and agree that
this Agreement is nonexclusive, such that the CITY may enter into operating agreements
as part of the Pilot Program with car sharing operators other than MAVEN and that
MAVEN may enter into leases, licenses, and other agreements with property owners
other than the CITY as part of its car sharing operations in Detroit.

Force Ma jeu re. Neither Party will be responsible or liable to the other Party for non-
performance or delay in performance of any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement
due to acts or occurrences beyond the control of the nonperforming or delayed Party,
including without limitation, acts of God, acts of government, terrorism, wars, riots,
strikes or other labor disputes, shortages of labor or materials, ?res, and floods, provided
that the non performing or delayed Party provides to the other Party written notice as
soon as possible, but in no event more than 30 days after the force majeure event occurs,
of the existence of and the reason for such nonperformance or delay.

Merger. This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Amendments hereto, contains the
entire agreement between the Parties and all prior negotiations and agreements are
merged herein. Neither MAVEN, the CITY, nor their respective agents has made any
representations or warranties with respect to the Dedicated Spaces or this Agreement,
except as expressly set forth herein, and no rights, or remedies are or shall be acquired by
the Parties by implication or otherwise unless expressly set forth herein.

Choice of Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan. MAVEN agrees, consents and
submits to the personal jurisdiction of any competent court in Wayne County, Michigan
for any action brought against it arising under this Agreement. MAVEN agrees that

15

14.07:

14.08:

14.09:

14.10.

service of process at the address and in the manner speci?ed in Section ll will be
sufficient to put MAVEN on notice and hereby waive any and all claims relative to such
notice. MAVEN and the CITY also agree that they will not commence any action against
the other party because of any matter whatsoever arising out of or related to the validity,
construction, interpretation, and enforcement of this Agreement in any courts other than
those in the County of Wayne, State of Michigan unless original jurisdiction can be had
in either the Michigan Court of Appeals, Michigan Supreme Court or the US. District
Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division.

Severability. 1n the event that any provision in this Agreement or its application is found
by a court to be impermissible, invalid, or unenforceable, then that provision will be
stricken and will be replaced by a provision that is permissible, valid, and enforceable,
and by mutual agreement of the Parties comes closest to expressing the intent of the
stricken provision. The remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect
in accordance with its original overall intent the fullest extent permitted by Applicable
Laws.

Interpretation. Whenever required by the context of this Agreement, the singular shall
include the plural, and vice versa, and the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter
genders, and vice versa. Unless the context otherwise expressly requires, the words
?herein?, ?hereof? and ?hereunder? and other words of similar import refer to this
Agreement as a whole and not to any particular section. This Agreement shall be
construed to give effect to its terms without any presumption that it is to be construed
against its draftsman or otherwise construed in favor of or against either Party. Each
Party has been represented by counsel of its choice and has participated equally in
connection with the preparation, negotiation and execution of this Agreement.

Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute but one
document. Each counterpart may be executed by facsimile or electronic signature, which
will be deemed to be an original signature, to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.

Authority of the City. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or otherwise to the
contrary, the CITY shall not be authorized or obligated to lease, license, or otherwise
convey the Dedicated Spaces to MAVEN until this Agreement has been fully executed
by the duly authorized representatives of the CITY, as well as approved by the Detroit
City Council, the Mayor of the City of Detroit, the City of Detroit Law Department and
any other City ?nancial review commission or board as required by Applicable Laws.
Any Amendment must likewise be duly approved by the City Council, the Mayor, and
the Law Department.

[Signatures appear on next page]

16

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the dates shown

below, to be effective as of the Effective Date.

CITY OF DETROIT,
a Michigan municipal corporation

By: {fri?r?
Name: [1201.4 79721;,th 
DDW 7>fn (-e?ror?

 

 

its:
Date: 0 v? with ?2 a, 2ch 9
MAVEN DRIVE LLC,

a Delaware limited liability company

y: 

 

 

 

Name: Hogs 
655a: Director Execution 
ltS: Flag! Palate Real Emmi;

Date: 87

Approved by Detroit City Council on:

 

Eyf

 

 

 

In accordance with ?18-5-4 of the Detroit City
Code, I hereby certify that proper and fair
consideration has been received by the City
pursuant to this contract.

Chief Procurement Officer

Approved as to form in accordance with
7.5-206 of the 2012 City of Detroit Charter.

 

 

Finance Director

Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT VALID OR AUTHORIZED UNTIL APPROVED BY THE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL.

MAVEN GMENT

STATE OF WCHIGAN 

COUNTY OF WAYNE 

The foregoing instrument was acknowledge before me on this 1 day of 
20 K, by the :?r?csg?f on behalf of Maven

Drive LLC, a Delaware 115111th liability company.
f?thwW 

Notary Public, Wayne County, MI

My commission expires:

 

KATHLEEN M. RENT 
NOTARY PUBLIC. STATEBEEHMI

ccuuw OFWAYNE
:rrcomrmse 
ME IN $313,202:




c' 

. I,

18

EXHIBIT A:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEDICATED SPACES
Name Location"? Type Num. Spaces Fee?

Bagley Southern side of'BagIey Non-Metered 1 $62.50
Trumbull Avenue, between Trumbull ROW

Avenue and Street
Woodward Northern side of Clifford Non?Metered 1 $62.50
Clifford Street, between Woodward ROW

Avenue and Griswold Street
Woodward Northern side of West Adams Non-Metered 1 $62.50
Adams Street, between Woodward ROW

Avenue and Park Avenue
Warren Northern side of West Metered 1 $125.00
Second Warren Avenue, between 2?d ROW

Street and A. Wayne Drive
Prentis Western side of Cass Avenue, Non-Metered 1 $62.50
Building between Kirby Street and ROW

Putnam Street
Vernor Western side of Cavalry Non?Metered $62.50
Cavalry Street, between McMillan ROW

Street and Vernor Highway

TOTALS: 6 $437.50

 

 

*Exact siting of spaces within each location to be determined in consultation with the Detroit

Municipal Parking Department and Department of Public Works.

?Restatement of the fee applicable to each space, based on the Fee Schedule
established in Section 4.01 herein.

20

 

CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF MICHIGAN 


COUNTY OF WAYNE 

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on this day of 20?,

by
. of the Department of the City of Detroit, a

Michigan municipal corporation.

 

Notary Public, Wayne County, MI

My commission expires:

 

l9

EXHIBIT B:
GREATER DOWNTOWN AREA

The Greater Downtown Area includes all of that portion of the City of Detroit within the area
bounded by the Detroit River and the center lines of Steve Yzerman Drive (extended to the
Detroit River), John C. Lodge Freeway (M-I 0), Edsel Ford Freeway (1-94), Fisher Freeway 
75), Interstate 375 (L375), East Jefferson Avenue, and Rivard Street (extended to the Detroit

River).

21

EXHIBIT C:

[First] Operating Agreement Supplement

This [First] Operating Agreement Supplement (?Supplement?) is entered into pursuant to that
certain Car Sharing Pilot Program Operating Agreement (as amended and modi?ed from time to time, the
?Agreement?) dated between CITY OF DETROIT and MAVEN DRIVE LLC
(?Maven?).

THE PARTIES AGREE as follows:
A. De?ned Terms. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise de?ned in this Supplement will have the

meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement.

B. Revision to Fee Schedule ins applicnbiel. Effective as of I, the fee schedule contained in
Section 4.0] of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new

schedule:

 

Location Type: Fee (per Dedicated Space, per month):
City Facility

Metered City ROW
Non-Metered ROW

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C. Revision to Dedicated Spaces [as mmh?cabiei. Effective as of I, Exhibit A to the Agreement
is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new schedule:

 

Name Location* Type um. Spaces Fee**
96

TOTALS: 

*Exact siting of spaces within each location to be determined in consultation with the Detroit Municipal
Parking Department and Department of Public Works.

**Restatement of the fee applicable to each space, based on the Fee Schedule

established in Section 4.01 herein.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D. Miscellaneous. Except as expressly provided in this Supplement, the Agreement (the terms and
conditions of which are incorporated into this Supplement) remains unmodi?ed and in full force and effect.
In the event of any con?ict between the Agreement and this Supplement, this Supplement controls. This
Supplement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and, when
compiled, deemed to constitute a single document. Copies of signatures (including those delivered by email,
facsimile or .pdf) and electronic signatures have the same effect as originals.

 

 

 

 

CITY OF DETROIT, MAVEN DRIVE LLC,

a Michigan municipal corporation a Delaware limited liability company
By: By:

Name: Name:

Title: Title:

 

 

22





City of Detroit

COUNCILMAN SCOTT R. BENSON

MORAN DU 

TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel

FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

James Craig, Chief of Police

David Whitaker, LPD

John Hill, CFO

Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 1 Nov 2018
RE: DPD TOWING PROCESS

With the entry of DPD into the towing business and the declaration by Assistant Chief
James White that ?We anticipate 30-50 percent of the current tows in the city being done
by our tow operation," I want to ensure the City is being deliberate and thoughtful in
how it operates its tow business. To that end I am requesting an opinion from the Law
Department on what limits the City?s ability to strike an agreement on City sponsored
tows with private tow companies. Exempli gratia, can the City enter into an agreement
with private tow companies to ensure an equitable distribution of work for all who
support City tow services?

Please provide this opinion by 1 Dec 2018. If you have any questions please do not
hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224-1198.

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

