TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

MW

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Resolved,

  
      
 
 

A41

 



n. MEMBER

DETROIT CITY C01 INCIL ?70

Clix: ease/grotto?
MS. MATTIE L. MORGAN

?Celebrating Your 90? Birthday?

On December 11, 2018, MS. MATTIE L. MORGAN will attain the age of ninety years, a very signi?cant and
amazing milestone. The members of the Detroit City Council would like to publicly acknowledge this important
event in her life; and

MATTIE LOUIS JONES MORGAN was born on December 11, 1928, in Furman, Alabama, to Louis and
Rebecca Jones. She is the tenth of thirteen children born to this union. Her parents and all but one of her siblings,
Nellie, have passed on to glory. MATTIE and her siblings were raised in rural Alabama, where she attended Snow
Hill Institute in Snow Hill, Alabama. It was here that she met her future husband, James T. Morgan. They were
united in marriage on October 14, 1945. Tragically, in the summer of 1960, James drowned in a Florida lake: and

MATTIE migrated north and moved her family to metropolitan Detroit, where she raised her ten children. The
family lived in a public housing project. In order to provide for her family, MATTIE worked several jobs: day
worker in suburban homes, cook at .L. Hudson?s, general laborer at an auto parts plant, head lunch server and latch
key coordinator. Having a modest upbringing and limited formal education, it was always dream to be
a homeowner. In November 1972, she surpassed her goal and had a home built in northwest Detroit in the
Winthrop community. MATTIE still resides there to this day. In 1983, MATTIE returned to school in pursuit of a
vocation. Through her studies, she mastered furniture upholstering and sewing. In the years to follow, MATTIE
became an accomplished dressmaker and designer of religious handkerchiefs and remembrance photo albums; and

MATTIE has always been a strong advocate of the power of voting and continues to promote active participation
in the electoral process. She personally took each of her children to register to vote on their eligible birthdays. In
2008, MATTIE was overjoyed to be able to cast her ballot for the ?rst African-American president, Barack
Obama. Voting is an expectation that she still has of all her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. MATTIE is a
dedicated member of her community and was instrumental in starting the neighborhood block club. She organized
beauti?cation projects, collected money and secured snow removal services for the area, and sought food donations
for those in need. MATTIE is an avid gardener and often shares the food grown in her backyard. She is an Eastern
Star member and a former member of Oak Grove AME Church. MATTIE enjoys participating in her
grandchildren and great-grandchildren?s church, athletic and school activities. She loves to travel with her family
and has visited several states in the south, Hawaii, Jamaica, and Mexico; and

At ninety years young, MS. MATTIE MORGAN is blessed with extraordinary longevity! As family and friends
are gathered here today to commemorate and celebrate her 90th Birthday, it is abundantly ?tting and proper that
MS. MATTIE MORGAN be appropriately recognized during this very special and memorable time of her life.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council hereby presents this Testimonial Resolution to MS. MATTIE LOUIS JONES
MORGAN upon the grand occasion of her Birthday and extends to her best wishes for continued health and
happiness.

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT

40.8475. (.0

coumcu. MEMBEE 

COUNCI EMB 

 

 

   
 
   
 

 

December 7, 201

DATE

 

?abmi-l-l-aS) ?23
Rd:? u-Bo-zot?

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

(Toiestmzatma Wesa?wdaw
Jolly Old Timers, Inc 

60 Years of History and Still Standing

WHEREAS: In August of 1958, 51 men of various ages and levels of education came together to
merge and cement their friendships. They established the Jolly Old Timers (JOT) as
a nonpro?t social club, committed to helping the community; and

WHEREAS: The OT was incorporated by the state of Michigan in 1959. Their motto became -
Justice to all, 0 - Obedience to God and - Truth and loyalty to all mankind;
and

WHEREAS: The JOT were trailblazers when it came to race relations. Membership in the club is

multi-racial. It was a founding white member who helped navigate the discriminatory
housing practices of the time and helped purchase the club house in 1968. Now (since
1993), JOT also includes women as members; and

WHEREAS: JOT members are blue collar workers, business professionals, teachers, lawyers,
judges, medical professionals, politicians and City and State workers. It is
appropriately described as a social club for the classy and sophisticated; and

WHEREAS: This diverse group continues to support the community by giving to charities, hosting
fundraisers for scholarships, adopting schools and mentoring programs; and

WHEREAS: The inspiration that begun over 60 years ago still burns bright today. The longevity
and success of this organization is attributed to a wonderful mix of its members,

friends and the community. Times have changed but the needs of the less fortunate
are still with us. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez and her colleagues on the Detroit City
Council celebrate the history of the Jolly Old Timers. Thank you for your long
history of commitment to the social, educational and economic growth of the City of
Detroit.

?m
?a?s 

COUNCIL MEMBER

COUNCEZMEER 5
COUNCIL EMBEFI 



  

 

 

 

 

 

        
 
 

December 3, 201
DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

9m Wage! SW

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

ellz- DFIO I

I72

60th Birthday

Delicia Shimkoski is a native Detroiter. She grew up on Dalrymaple in 48204, where she lived with
her parents Julian and Beulah Wilson and siblings, Carter and Audrey. She attended St. Phillips
Lutheran School where her mother was a teacher. She is also a proud graduate of Cass Technical
High School Class of 1975. While at Cass, Delicia lettered on the tennis team and cheer squad; and

Delicia has been witness to many historic moments in the history of Detroit, both the good and the
bad. Delicia loved attending the circus with her father who was a head mechanic for the city of
Detroit. It was during a trip to the circus that she witness the tragic Wallendas fall at the Olympia
Arena in 1962. She witness another tragic time in Detroit?s history during the 67 riots as Michigan
National Guard tanks drove down her street. Yet, she is still hear to witness the resurgence of the city
as a resident in a new condo at St. Anne?s Gate in Southwest Detroit; and

Delicia attended Wayne County Community College, the University of Michigan and the University
of Phoenix where she completed her Nursing degree. She served the Detroit Medical Center and
Hutzel Women?s Hospital for over thirty years in many capacities including staff nurse, research
nurse, clinical manager and coordinator of lactation services/childbirth education. At one time, she
was one of only two black nurses certi?ed in lactation in the state of Michigan; and

Her professional dedication has led her to go above and beyond the call of duty through organizing
education sessions, providing consultations, giving hospital tours, making home visits, working late
hours, and performing various types of community services. She has been recognized professionally
with awards such as the Terry Jo Curtis Ward, United States Lactation Consultants Association; the
Daisy Award for Extraordinary Nurses, the Daisy Foundation; and the GEM Award, Going the Extra
Mile, from the Detroit Medical Center; to name a few; and

Delicia is the mother of Kevin and Jennifer, wife of Robert and a member of Sacred Heart Church.

She is active in her community and has served as an elected member of the Hubbard Richard
Citizens? District Council. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez and her colleagues on the Detroit City Council celebrate
60 years of the life of Delicia Hazel Shimkoski. Thank you Delicia for your dedication to providing
quality lactation and nursing services to the women of color in the city of Detroit and to increasing
minority representation in professional lactation

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT

Jan-Lori? L0

COUNCIL Ml?

 

 

?90m: 

. 

Brunei. Me Fl

 

 

 

 

December 23. 2018

DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 3
C9 eaten-2.0m at; Cris. esot?Mro/rv

St. Stephen A.M.E. Church
100?? Anniversary Celebration 1918 2018

WHEREAS, For one hundred. years St. Stephen A.M.E. Church has been serving communities on the west side of

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

IL PRE -1

Detroit preaching and teaching Christian stewardship, while nurturing the physical body, spirit and the
mind through the traditions and principles of African Methodism. In 1918, Bishop Charles Spencer Smith
was informed that an African Methodist Episcopal Church was needed on the west side of Detroit. The
Reverend T. J. White agreed to take on this mission. On November 18, 1918, at the home of Brother Walter
James, thirteen charter members signed the Document of Organization. In 1920, a lot was purchased on
Stanford and Cobb; and

St. Stephen A.M.E. Church has had very minimal changes in leadership over the last 100 years. Shepherds
that have lead the church over the years include: Rev. Thomas J. White (1918-1920), Rev. MC. Wright
(1920-1921), Rev. 8.8. Harris (1921-1923), Rev. William E. Walker (1923-1927), Rev. .D. Howell (1927-
1960), Rev. Martin Luther Simmons (1960-1972), Rev. John E. Hunter (1972-1980), Rev. Harold C.
Huggins (1980-1997), Rev. Delano Bowman (1997-2004), Rev. Alfred Johnson (2004-2007) and Rev.
Michael Cousin A. Cousin (2007-2017). Every new pastor that came through St. Stephen A.M.E. Church,
God has given each a vision to do something that would improve and enrich the church family; and

St. Stephen A.M.E. Church has continued to advance and grow over the years. Under the leadership of the
church?s current pastor, Rev. Darryl R. Williams, St. Stephen?s mission statement has been updated to
read; ?To demonstrate the word, prayer, and love to people of all ages. First to one another, then to others
through outreach, hospitality, and excellence.? With keeping with the mission statement, a food pantry is in
full swing to assist those in need. Sampson/Webber Academy was adopted and their library has been
reestablished. A Little Library has been constructed outside of the church to increase literacy in the
community. The ministry department added a men?s ministry to assist with spiritual growth, life issues, and
servicing the community. A computer lab was reopened for public use. St. Stephen A.M.E. Church has
come this far by faith and continues to provide spiritual, educational, and economic nurturing for humanity.
What a joy for one hundred years of service to God and the community! NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones, wishes to congratulate the

entire congregation of St. Stephen African Methodist Episcopal Church on this commemoration of their
100?" Church Anniversary. May God continue to bless everyone in abundance!

. 7 COUNCIL PH ENT 
In? 4? .I a?

 

 

 

COUNCIL MEMB 

. 3%

0? 

 

 

 

 

Afr! A
GUI - MEMBER . 
4 . . .
- I
November 17, 2018

 

DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
(Eastanamad ansadwtion'
Honorable Judge Richard B. Halloran

WHEREAS, It is with great pleasure and privilege that we. the members ol?the Detroit City Council, recognize and bestow honor
upon JUDGE RICHARD B. HALLORAN for his outstanding leadership and illustrious career as a dedicated public
servant on the occasion of his retirement from the Third Circuit Court: and

WHEREAS, JUDGE HALLORAN is a native of Buffalo, New York. He graduated in 1970 ?om Canisius College with a BA.
in In 1975, he graduated ?'om University of Detroit School of Law and was admitted to the State Bar
of Michigan. JUDGE HALLORAN ?rst ran for Judge ofthe 36'll District Court in 1981, ?nishing 24?? that year.
Being encouraged to make another run in 1982, he ?nished 15?" for the seven additional judgeships. Leaving the
practice of law in 1983, JUDGE HALLORAN served as the Regional Vice-President of several national real estate
?rms until 1990. JUDGE HALLORAN became a magistrate for the 36?" District Court in 1990. In 1994, he was
appointed by Govemor John Engler as a Judge ofthe 36'? District Court. JUDGE HALLORAN was not elected for
36'? District Court in 1996 and returned to private practice. Private practice. didn?t last long, JUDGE HALLORAN
became an Administrative Law Judge for the Michigan Liquor Control Board. In 1998. Governor Engler appointed
JUDGE HALLORAN to the Third Circuit Court Bench. where he has served in the Family Division for the past 20
years; and

WHEREAS. Because of his compassion and concem for others. JUDGE HALLORAN has been ?ghting against domestic abuse.
He assisted with creating the domestic violence docket for the 36'h District Court. JUDGE HALLORAN has served
as a co-chair of the Wayne County Coordinating Council to Prevent Family Violence. He served on the Govemor?s
Task Force to create standards for batterer intervention programs, and served on the State Domestic Violence
Committee. As a Circuit Court Judge, he has created the Personal Protection Order Docket and was instrumental in
creating the Solution Oriented Domestic Violence Prevention Docket that deals with high lethality cases. He was also
involved in the creation ofthe Section ofthe State Bar and served as its chair ?'om 2017-2013: and

WHEREAS. JUDGE HALLORAN has received many honors and accolades for his work on the bench. He is especially proud
ofthe work he has done on behalf of victims of domestic violence. The highlight of his career was receiving the
Marilyn J. Kelly Award for outstanding service as a Family Division Judge from the Family Law Section ofthe State
Bar of Michigan in 2017 He has conducted himself in a fair. compassionate. and professional manner, treating
members ofthe bar and all before him with fairness and respect. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones. does hereby convey its deepest
gratitude to JUDGE RICHARD B. HALLORAN for distinguished service to the people of the City of Detroit.
County of Wayne and the State of Michigan. and wishes him a very long. healthy. and enjoyable retirement.

 

 

 

 

 

UMCIL MW
December 5 018
DATE

   



DETROIT CITY COUNCIL . 75
(a ash/1W6. 8 501300120?

Hon. Judge Virgil C. Smith

WHEREAS, It is with great pleasure and privilege that we, the members of the Detroit City Council, recognize and bestow honor upon
JUDGE VIRGIL C. SMITH, Presiding Judge of the Juvenile Division, on the occasion of his retirement from the Wayne
County Third Judicial Circuit Court. JUDGE SMITH was born and raised in the Conant Gardens community of Detroit,
Michigan. He attended Pershing High School, received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from Michigan State
University, and a Juris Doctor degree from Wayne State University Law School in 1972. Following law school, JUDGE
SMITH became a legal advisor to several community groups for Wayne County Legal Services, and later became the
Supervising Attorney. Subsequently, he was appointed by the late Mayor Coleman A. Young, as Senior Assistant Corporation
Counsel for the City of Detroit Law Department; and

WHEREAS, Beginning in 1977, JUDGE SMITH was elected as a member of the Michigan House of Representatives, serving the 10lh
District. During his tenure as a State Representative, he chaired the Economic Development and Energy Committee and served
on the Taxation, Judiciary, Elections, Finance, Local Government and Veterans Committees. He also served on the 21?t Century
Commission on the Courts and the Law Revision Commission. In 1980, JUDGE SMITH became Chair of the Special
Committee on Court Reorganization, which created: a standardized Michigan Judicial System, the Office of the State Court
Administrator, the Third Circuit Court, and the 36th District Court. In 1978, he and Rep. Pen'y Bullard. introduced legislation
to force universities and corporations to divest from South Africa, and by 1988 he spearheaded the passing of the strongest
divestment bill by a state legislature. JUDGE SMITH was elected to the Michigan Senate in March of 1988 and served as the
Democratic Floor Leader. He also served as the Minority Vice-Chair for several committees, including Gaming Casino
Oversight and Government Operations. In 1994, he was invited by the post-apartheid government to come to South Africa to
assist in training sessions for newly elected national and provincial legislators. In 1986, JUDGE SMITH was voted Legislator
of the Year by both the Michigan Judges Association and the Police Of?cers Association of Michigan. In 2004, he was honored
by the Michigan Legislative Caucus for historic achievement, as the ?rst A?-ican American to serve as Senate Democratic
leader in the Michigan Senate. In 2014, JUDGE SMITH was honored by the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American
History and the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, as one of nine Detroiters recognized for their leadership in the anti-apartheid
movement; and

WHEREAS, In 2001, he served as Chief of Legislation, Grants and Community Relations for the Wayne County Prosecutor?s Of?ce. In
2004, he served as Chief Deputy for the Prosecutor?s Of?ce. In 2004, former Governor Jennifer Granholm appointed him to a
Judgeship at the Wayne County Third Judicial Circuit Court. He served as the Presiding Judge of the Family Division- Juvenile
Section from 2004 to 2006. On, January 1, 2009, JUDGE SMITH became Chief Judge of the Wayne County Third Judicial
Circuit Court, having been appointed by a unanimous vote of the Michigan Supreme Court. He was later reappointed by the
Michigan Supreme Court for terms commencing in 2010 and 2012. JUDGE SM 15 the ?rst African American to serve as
Chief Judge of the Third Judicial Circuit Court, and the ?rst African American Chief Circuit Court Judge in the State of
Michigan. JUDGE SMITH served ?ve years as Chief Judge, then, at the end of his second term in 2014, returned to the
Juvenile Court as the Presiding Judge' 1n the Wayne County Juvenile Court, where he served the children and families of Wayne
County. Throughout his tenure as a jurist, JUDGE VIRGIL C. SMITH has conducted himself in a fair, compassionate and
professional manner, treating members of the bar and all before him with fairness and respect. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, does hereby convey its deepest gratitude to
JUDGE VIRGIL C. SMIT his distinguished service to the people of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne and the State

ofMichigan.
. I 

coumcnon. .EMI 

.

c" W, . 21/525 byAL//
JILL. 

Mea?as
ON #74 Apart FEZ/rvt/
BEH 5255/o/U 0/1)
December -, 2018

DATE WEE-WIV. ?24 10/5

 

 

 

    

CCU MEMBER

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 7 (0
(Cge?mnamia? Cram/Wm
Hon. Judge Robert J. Colombo Jr.

WHEREAS, It is with great pleasure and privilege that we, the members of the Detroit City Council, recognize and bestow
honor upon Chief JUDGE ROBERT J. COLOMBO JR., for his outstanding leadership and illustrious career
as a dedicated public servant on the occasion of his retirement from the Wayne County Third Judicial Circuit
Court; and

WHEREAS, JUDGE COLOMBO was born on April 3, 1950 in Detroit, Michigan. He was raised in Detroit and Farmington
Hills, Michigan. He graduated from Detroit Catholic Central High School in 1968. In 1972, JUDGE
COLOMBO graduated cum laude from the University of Miami with a B.B.A. degree in Accounting. He spent
the next three years at the Detroit College of Law, where he graduated cum laude with a JD. degree in 1975.
Then. he clerked for two years at the law ?rm of Jenkins. Fortescue, Miller From June 1975 through
December 1976, JUDGE COLOMBO served as the law clerk for the Hon. George N. Bashara Jr., of the
Michigan Court of Appeals. He joined the law ?rm of Riley Roumell in 1977, practicing civil, criminal and
domestic relations cases at the trial and appellate levels. His civil practice included commercial business and
employment cases, in addition to representing public school districts; and

WHEREAS, In November 1982. JUDGE COLOMBO was elected to the Wayne County Third Judicial Circuit Court. During
his tenure he has handled civil, criminal and domestic relations cases. JUDGE COLOMBO handled all asbestos
litigation in Wayne County for twenty-?ve years. In 1993, he was appointed by the Michigan Supreme Court to
handle all of the breast implant cases in the State of Michigan. Subsequently, the Court of Appeals noted ?the
remarkable skill and patience exhibited by Judge Colombo in the face of some of the most expansive and complex
litigation in the history of the state.? In 2000, the Michigan Supreme Court appointed JUDGE COLOMBO to
handle all class action lawsuits brought under the Michigan Antitrust Law against Microsoft; and

WHEREAS, The Michigan Supreme Court appointed JUDGE COLOMBO as Chief Judge of the Wayne County Third
Judicial Circuit Court in October 2013, for a two-year term beginning January 1, 2014. He was reappointed for a
two-year term commencing in 2016. JUDGE COLOMBO is also Co?Chair of the Detroit Bar Foundation.
JUDGE COLOMBO followed his family into the legal profession. His grandfather, Emil William Colombo,
was a principal in the law ?rm of Colombo, Colombo. Colombo, Vermuelen Colombo. His father, Robert
Colombo, was also a principal in that law ?rm, as well as a longtime judge in Detroit Recorder?s Court and
Wayne County Third Judicial Circuit Court. JUDGE COLOMBO has received numerous awards for his career
in public service, including a Spirit of DetroitAward for reinstating a Law Day program, through which city high
school students visit the court to hear from keynote speakers and participate in a mock trial. He was recently
honored as the 2018 recipient of the 14'? Annual Dennis W. Archer Public Service Award from the Detroit Bar
Association Foundation. Chief JUDGE COLOMBO has been a leader among leaders who has helped guide
the implementation of e-?ling in Michigan among many other accomplishments. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, does hereby convey its deepest
gratitude to Chief JUDGE ROBERT J. COLOMBO JR. for his distinguished service to the people of the City

of Detroit, County WWI the State of Michigan.

4.4M.

. . - COUNCIL 

CCI Jg? 
c/m' 

47L {rs/L HAM 
December gees/aw n/U

DATE 7915 . MAV?anzag

 

 
 

 

.- I
1.5.4.

000 IL MEMBEFI

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

RESOLUTION [7 7

In Memoriam

 

 

JAMES TURNER SANDERS, JR.

(JANUARY 26, 25, 2018)

WHEREAS James Turner Sanders, Jr. was born on January 26, 1959 in Monroe, Louisiana to
his parents, the late James Turner Sanders, Sr. and Elmar Jean Sharkley. He accepted Christ at an
early age; and

WHEREAS James was educated in the Flint Public School system. He furthered his education
and graduated from Oakland Community College, receiving his Associates Degree in Social
Work; and

WHEREAS James was a dedicated father, grandfather, brother, uncle and friend. He enjoyed
the company of his family, but most of all, spending time with his grandson; and

WHEREAS James was a man of enormous strength and had a heart for helping people. He
worked as a Legislative Assistant to Detroit City Councilman Roy McCalister, assisting the
residents of Detroit by being a liaison for the councilman; and

WHEREAS It being the will of our Lord, James was called home from labor to reward on
November 25, 2018. His presence, character and sense of humor will truly be missed by all of
12.117? ilLit-ltose-whu knewnan??i loved him; NOW THEREFORE, LET IT BE RESOLVED

RESOLVED That Councilman Roy McCalister, Jr. and the entire Detroit City Council hereby
recognizes and sends our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the family of James Turner
Sanders, Jr. ?Let not your heart be troubled, ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my
Father?s house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a
place for you. And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto
myself; that were I am, there ye may be also. John 14: 1?3

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

.

COUNCILMEMBER COUNCIL MBER

mi" 76227

couw - COUNCI EMBER 
"f ?20/ 

 



 

 

DETROIT CITY COEINCIL

WHEREAS: Mrs. Bernice Robinson, born December 27, 1928, in Detroit, Michigan, the oldest child of John Aaron and
Everlena (McCoy) Robinson Sr. ?'om Dixie, Georgia. Bernice the ?rst-born grew up at 2700 Smith St. in Hamtramck, Michigan
where her father John Aaron worked at Dodge Main Plant Corporation) and her mother Everlena, a homemaker in the
1930?s. As the oldest of her four siblings, Catherine, John Aaron, and Oscar, Bemice helped take care of them and household chores,
AND

WHEREAS: Mrs. Bernice Robinson, married twice, her ?rst marriage to Mr. Carl Jasper Lester, May 21, 1946, in Detroit,
Michigan, and later married John Aulter Amos in Ohio on January 6, 1976. Mr. John Aulter Amos died in May 1989. Their ?rst-
born, Charlton Aaron Amos passed away in the 805, leaving to cherish his memory three siblings, Stacey, Kim, and Jordale, AND

/715?

 

WHEREAS: In ?irthering her education and being an avid reader, Mrs. Bernice Robinson graduated ?'om Northern High School
in 1941, where she later taught History and ended her teaching profession at Pontiac High School as a History teacher when she
retired in 1974. Bernice was also a Notary for over ?fteen years, AND

WHEREAS: Mrs. Bernice Robinson reminisces growing up in Hamtramck and Detroit, experiencing a dif?cult period in her
life where there was no leisure time because they had to help with chores, and go to school which prevented boys, and girls from
playing and running down the street as they do today. Two important events Bernice remembers; a peaceful demonstration attended
by thousands for the freedom of people all over the United States marching down Woodward Ave on one 23, [963, when Martin
Luther King Jr. spoke at Coho Hall delivering his famous speech Have a Dream.? On the other hand, the 1967 Detroit riot that
began on 12th street, Sunday, July 23, that lasted ?ve days, a confrontation between black people and the Detroit police where 43
people died, 342 injured, and approximately 1,400 buildings burned, AND

WHEREAS: On Saturday, October 1, 2017, Mrs. Bernice Robinson walked over to the now-closed Johnson Recreation Center to
the 8 Mile Rd Community Unity Walk, to bridge Residents, Churches Community Groups. We as a community stand on the
shoulders of a kind, educated, gentle, and soft-spoken lady. As Ms. Bernice Robinson celebrates her ninety birthday she is asked if
she had the Opportunity to live her life over again, what would she do Mrs. Bernice Robinson said, ?She would not work
as hard as she did, not allow people to boss her around telling her what balcony at a movie theater where blacks
only were allowed, but instead she would sit downstairs with the white folks!" NOW, THEREFORE LET IT BE

RESOLVED: That Council Member Roy McCalister Jr., along with Detroit City Council, would like to take this time to honor
you, Mrs. Bernice Robinson as you celebrate your 90th Birthday on this 27"ll Day of December. May God continue to bless you!

  
     
   
  

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT

    

IL 


IUNCII. Mar"
A.





seaerILinEMBER

 
    

  

 
   
 

 

 

29.135.
Dgember 2 7

DATE

gloouncf EMBER

er"

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL .
ARLEN STARGHILL

?In Recognition of Your Centennial 100TH Birthday?

Whereas, On December 13, 2018, ARLENE STARGHILL will attain the age of ONE HUNDRED YEARS, a very

signi?cant milestone, reseived for very few. The Detroit City Council would like to publicly acknowledge
this important event in her life; and

Whereas, ARLENE STARGHILL, one oi'our esteemed centenarian citizens, has lived a rich and blessed life, having

experienced, ?rst-hand, .100 of the most eventful and productive years in American and world histoly.
ARLENE was welcomed into the world by her loving parents, Henry Millner and Janie Millner Davis, on
December EB, 1918, in Algoma, West Virginia. ARLENE was united in Holy Matrimony to the late Otis
Clayton Sr. in l936 and celebrated 72 years of marriage and were together to the end! To this union.
five children were born; Walter, Otis Jr. Janice, Gene and Susan. ARLENE is a grandmother of 1, a great-
grandmother of I3, and a great-great-grandmother of 12. ARLENE and Otis moved to Detroit, Michigan in
1946 after working and living in Vancouver, Washington building ships for World War I l; and

Whereas, ARLENE joined The House of God Church, Keith Dominion and received the Baptism of the Holy Ghost in

1948, where ARLENE also worked with the Young People's Christian Academy. In 1955, ARLENE was
appointed by the late Bishop J. Thomas State Secretary of the Michigan Diocese and State Agent where she
served with great privilege and honor over the following of?ces: Church Reporter, Church Announcer,
Chainnan of the Building Fund, Food Committee Chairman, Trustee Board Secretary and Church Treasurer.
ARLENE became ordained as a Deacon in 19?] and served as Chairman of the Deacon Board faithfully For
20 years; and

Whereas, ARLENE organized the Missionary Department in Pontiac, Michigan under the late Bishop J. Thomas.

ARLENE is the Founder and President of the Mary Magdalene Club. Deaconess Starghill was awarded the

Whereas, ARLENE STARGHILL warm and friendly spirit is embodied in her gracious smile, which touches the heart

of everyone she knows. As family and friends are gathered here today to commemorate and celebrate her
100'? Birthday, it is abundantly ?tting and proper that ARLENE STARGHILL be appropriately recognized
during this very special and memorable time of her life. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

Resolved, That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Pro Tempore Mary Shef?eld, wishes to take

ll 

this Opportunity to honor and recognize one of Detroit?s centenarlan citizens, ARLENE STARGHILL, upon

.- ear-H .-- .4 -.
ask. 4: --.-: mt arms-r313

 

A.


COU CIL EMBEH

I COUNCIL PRESIDENT 
COUNCIL 


0/ 

Jr.) . . I at,?
0-H CL Ft I COUNCIL MBEH

December. 13, 2018

DATE

 

 

