UPC (L 3C g;
511,00ng

NEIGHBORHOOD
SERWCE 
STANDING

 

OFFICE COORDINATORS REPORT

 

OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED NIA CANCELED

 

 

Winter Blast Weekends

Petition vent Name:
Various

Cadillac Square Michigan Avenue
Organization Name: Jon Witz Associates
301 W. 4th Street LL150 Royal Oak, MI 48067

 

Event Date 

 

 

Street Closure:

 

Street Address:

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:

 

Date of City Clerk's Departmental Reference Communication:

 

Due date for City Departments reports:

 

 

 

Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):

Walkathon Carnival/Circus Concert/Performance Run/Marathon
'3 Bike Race El Religious Ceremony Political Ceremony Festival
Filming Parade Sports/Recreation Rally/Demonstration

Fireworks Convention/Conference Other: lellne/Sllde/SHOW 

I: 24-Hour Liquor License

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)

Winter Blast Weekends will take place at Cadillac Square on January 19 22, January 25 - 27,
February 8 - 10 February 15 - 17, 2019 with various times.

 

 

ALL permits and license requirements must be ful?lled for an approval status 
Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments

DPD Assisted Event; Contacted with

DPD TRICON Security to Provide Private

Security Services

 

 

 

Pending Inspections; Contracted with Hart

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I: [1 Medical to Provide Private EMS Services
EMS
ROW Permit Required
DPW 
Health Dept. Cl Temporary Food License Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
Type Barricades, Concrete Barricades
TED Road Signage Required
Application Received Approved as
Recreation Presented

 

Safety



Permits Required for Structures 
Electrical

 

Bus. License



Liquor License Required

 

All Necessary permits must be obtained

 

 

 

 

Mgf??igs prior to event. If permits are not obtained,
departments can enforce closure of event.
Municipal Purchase of Parking Meters Requrred
Parking
DDOT No Impact on Buses

 



 



 



 

 

OFFICE
Signature: ?ww Aw'mt
Date: Omar/t 1sz 2,018

 

Qtitp of ZBetrm't

Janice M- \J'Vil??l'exr OFFICE OF THE CLERK seamen West
City Clerk Deputy City 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Thursday, October 11, 2018

o: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

OFFICE POLICE DEPARTMENT
BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER
DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION FIRE DEPARTMENT
BUILDINGS SAFETY ENGINEERING

548 Jonathan Witz Associates, request to hold ?Winter Blast Weekends at
various locations on 1/11/19 - 2/1 7/19.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

 

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful events are the result of advance planning, effective communication and teamwork. You are
required to complete the information below so that the City of Detroit can gain a thorough understanding
of the scope and needs of the event. This form must be completed and returned to the City of Detroit
Clerk?s Of?ce. There is a 90 day review processdays, the petition could either be
approved or denied by departments. Please take into consideration the amount of time it will take to plan
the event when submitting the application. If submitted later than 90 days prior, application is subject to
denial. Please type or print clearly and attach additional sheets or maps as needed.

EventNaIme: Wtu?th??w WEI: Winks . 
Event Location: cw ?kc $113925 EL 2" 

Section 2- INFORMATION I

Jumqu mam-Ls Pia-$063M 5 

_-_organizmiun Mailing Address: EDI '63 Smear-V ??vlm MI. ??3505?
BusinessPhonc. . Business Fax: 3?9) 
Federal Tax 3.3" 3?53 88L:

[fregistered as a non-pro?t. indicate non?pro?t ID number and attach a copy ofthe certificate.

APPIiCantNume-z 
Titlea?Role: SQ 331AEQT
Eniaimddress- CW

SDI '41? Stem LL. Karel 3M1. LL?BDia??lr
Business Phone: Jugfsq?- BusinessFaxzz 3W3 5?41? 45loD
Event On-Site. Contact Person: 169??- 
SCH N: Hm L-L-l?gb" Qaqniom, ?$0031-

I
Business Phone: a? 3?5? a, 5% Buainess Fax: 3? - - .1- Ebb
do?: Zti?a-uS-t 247. (e Aer-c.? Ase-?5 awe-aw -0 05"?
numer?phorri! number author feed to make decrszons for Ike organization/event (indicate vole/J espousibiliod.
List Event Sponsors: L-DFQI :S?ln?f? 
t. 

Etrent Elements (check all that apply)

   

 

 

 

 

]Walkathon ]Carniva1/Circus ]Concert/Performance
]Run/Marathon )Bike Race ]Religious Ceremony
]Political Event mFestival ]Filming

]Paradc ]Sports/Recreation ]Rallnyemonstration

Fireworks Criteria? 

 

 

 

 

What are the projected set-up, eVent and tear down dates and times (must be
completed)?

Begin Set-up Date Etc Time: l'W?n Complete Set- -u_p Date 8.: Time:

 

Event Start Date 8r. TI me Event End Date Time: gnu-3 ?lm
'Bcgin Tearing Date: SAP: eigh? Complete- Tear Dom: Date; MM- 

Event TImestll'rnorethon one day, yvelunes for each- oily}; 1? ll tit! ?.10 [ill-:7 
Alia-2119 awn aha- 

Is this the ?rst time you 4w held this event in the City of Detroit? El Yes 70%

 

 

lf'no. what years has the event been held in Detroit? 900: 

mt'jetgs ..

 

When was the event last held in Detroit?

i7

  

Where was the event last held in Detroit? Q. 

What were the hours last year? ?FmQ?-r "t ?Egg-up. ?Slot." ?aw-CD

Project Attendance This Year (Minimum? Maximum)? _l Die-lug u?t?K
What' Is the basis for your projected attendance? AH ?5 ?5?ng

 

 

Please describe your an tieittntedar target audience:

Is this going to be an annual event? Yes El No

If yes, do you have a preferred/proposed for next year? .M: awb

 

 

It'a parade is planned. Indicate elements (check all that apply): 
P201211: Balloons

Floats Animals

I Vehicles [1 Other: . .- 

Bands

If animal's included. specify type. number and how used. NIA-

Name of business supplying animal(s):

 

Contact Person:

 

Address: Phone:

 

CityiStateI'Zip:

 

h?

 

 

 

 


Location of Event CHM m5

Facilities to be used (circle): - - Park City Facility

Please attach a site plan which illustrates the anticipated layout of your event including the following:

-Public entrance and exit -Location of First Aid

-Location of merchandising booths -L0cation of ?re lane

-Location of food booths -Proposed route for walk/run
-Location of garbage receptacles -I-.ocation of tents and canopies
-Location of beverage booths -Sketch of street closure

-Location of sound stages -Location of bleachers

~Location of hand washing sinks -Location of press area

-Location of portable restrooms -Sketch of proposed light pole banners

Section 

 

What type of entertainment will be uscd'? (check all that apply)

Singers MMa?idian

Musicians Story Telling

Comedians Other: MTamj

Describe tileenlertajnmcutfor 
- A -- -. . .55 been?: Sm?: 

List proposed entertainers and/or bands performing at ll'le event. TED- as. 9"th CT 
enemas as. 
. 1 
Will a sound system be used? Yes No

If yes, what type of sound system? LB $324.4

#6 Acoustic?audible, sound heard within natural range

       
  
  

 
  

    
 

Ampli?ed-augmented, sound increased to breadcnu

. sound will be used: N51 A8 3.39 ?Tdi-h'?
Will the event consist of a musical concert? Yes No
If yes, what type of music? (check all that apply)

[KLivc Recorded 

speci?c power needs for entertainment and/or a 2 Oh?? mtuakSQ?-N 519%,;
.How many generators will be used? 

How will the generators be fueled? Da 2 5mm:

Name ofvendor providing generators: (33326::?3 

Conlael Person: .D?ia 6W

Address: Butt ?Hat?eld %I2~n?nn pm awe ?tenuous

 

 

 

 

 

 

City/State/Zip:

Section 5- 

   

Check all applicable boxes that describe the type of promotion you plan to use to attract participants:
Radio (Specify stations): -T%b

Television (Speci?c stations): F6 .- ?Qb 

Newspapers (Speciiy papers): new I NE 93 

Web site (identify web address): no - . m?
Public Relations or Marketing Firm (Specify):

Contact Info:

Raf?e (List Itcm(s)): MIA.


I 

]stt-eeteannersN/A.

1011?? (SNOW):

NOTE: All raf?es subject to laws of State/City;

 

Section 6- SALES INFORMATION

 

Will there be advanced ticket sales? El Yes ?No
?Ifycs, please describe: 

 

Will there be Inn-site ticket sales? El Yes No
If yes, list prico?sl;

 

Will food be sold? .: Wife?s El No
If yes, please pick up Special Events-Yen car- Packet in Suite 105%

Willmercha?ndise bcsold? MY Yes No
If yes describe Elma-SW?Rh

Will a percentage of the proceeds be distributed to a charitable organization? Yes :No
If yes. describe: 9? mm 

If the event is a fundraiser, identify charity or recipient of funds: 

 

Will there be vending or sales? Yes No

If yes, check all that apply:

Food Merchandise

Non-Alcoholic Beverages (Alcoholic Beverages

1 nikn- 

Indicate type of items to be sold: $591!. IBM 
Will these be exclusive vendors or outside vendors? (please describe): SE m' 5b bu! rgbk-Nh\ 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Section PUBLIC SAFETY PARKING INFORMATION

Name of Private Security Company: Existing park contract security will be used: 

?Humv?

 

 

Address; lost, Phone?: :Iaq? \?qq
.?ityISIuIcIZip: 
Number of anatc security Personnel HIrcd Shift: E0. 3%

Are the private security personnel (check all that apply):
MLicensed Armed MBonded

Describe the emergency evacuation Plan: Elm SEE F: Law

Describe the parking plan to accommodate anticipated attendance. Mil-M94: 'r [m 5
How will you advise attendees ofpurltiIIg-o lions? ?alas't a! 

Are you seeking agmnp 

 

 

 

 

Section 8- COMMUNITY IMPACT INFORMATION

 

How williyour eventimpact the: surrounding community (Le.
pedestrian traf?c. sound: carryover, safety)? 3
55126: I: M: "?25 04AM

Have local neighborhood gmupsfbusincsses approVed your event? 2? Yes El No

Indicate what steps you have or will take to mar-y them of your event: DD Q. TD 23:33:; 
Ms: page. mg no CommaL: u? an?

Indicate contact names and phone numbers [for veri?cation) or attach approved  ettcr[a): ?1'5 ?5 

 

 

 

 

Section 9- EVENT SET-UP

 

Complete the appropriate categories that apply to the event.
Structure

I
Hoanny? ?30 ?20

Size/Height

 

Booth
Tent (enclosed on 3 sides) 9 - [extok i a 10 20$
Canopy (open on all sides) A

Staging/Scaffolding Qtia?'. .. ?Arcana-5m
l- ?tmtomu emanate 13M. Seth}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bleachers 

mpn?ay:
1314315"? . ..
]-?Gas ].Cl:nrcoti ]Electrical ]Propane
- A.
Image 
Provide Sketch:

Portable Restrooms:

KADA Accessible 

Vehicles

Type/Weight:

 

Other: . . 

NOTE: Speci?c requirements must be met and special approval must be rceeived by the Detroit Fire Department.

Will additional. 1: _tl'icni wiring nccdi to: be 'insiulieil?,? Sheen? locations valiant: q??gper?gg- and phase",

mu:- cw:- Sis aha-Likes: amusements 

1: Qukwamk swab mud

    

utility services but owl?et. water, etc. Picasc' desc'bm .
. . 14.3% @Aemssim?mk?u

?13: ?nite ?reworks display? List dates, time. location, vendor. and attach certi?cate of insurance.

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Section 10- COMPLETE A THAT APPLY
Name ofSanitalic-n Cumpany-cellec Eng refuse and garbage? at; 3? 3 

_Contact Person: -W as] .
up: skew Exams-52325
Ciw?tm?in. hm? PNE- 

Name of company providing emergency medical services? 

Contact Person: 

    

m.
.. ?9512?- . 

Name of company providing pane-jejdc. SHAW mg}

Contact Person: $13;ng i

Address: \?bE-n EWQE Phone: ?9?51 
e'h?b't liaise-sis. I

Name of private enter-lug 

 

Contact Person:
Address; . hone:


SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

List any" streets 0r possible streets yOu are requesting to be closed. Include the day, date, and time of requested closing and reopening.
Neighborhood Signatures must be submitted with application for approval.

Attach a map or sketch of the proposed area for closure.

STREET NAME: 8:93.33

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FROM

TO .

Closure Dates: Mr
Beg. Time: 

End Time:

Reopen Date: MAM 

Time: .b n' .b?l 

 

 

curse-3""
*Dleks? SW remix-ten d.

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME:

 

FROM .
TO

 

 

Closure Dates-?
Beg. Time:
End Time:
ReOpen Date:
Time:

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME: 

 

FROM
TO

 

 

Closure Dates:
Beg. Time:
End Time:
Reopen Date:
Time:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME: . . 

FROM . 

 

Closure Dates:
Beg. Time:
End Time: .. I 4 ..
Reopen Date:
Time:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Requested City Equipment
Provided (jitter)-

Current Request: {year-I

 

Street Closures: 

MPosting no parking signs Light pole
Electrical Services Storage for Trailers/'1' runks

Barricades are not available from the City of Detroit.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Is there any additional infulmntion that you feel :5 important to mention regarding your event or additional requests?

 

5'96 melt-ken: hawm?sa-?St?wv 

 

EWW: Can. 5:th

 

fleeM

 

(Hid-$53 saga PmMn?b 

 

 

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AFFADAVIT OF APPLICANT

certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief that have read. understand and agree to abide by the rules and regulations governing the proposed
Special Event, and I understand that this application is made subject to the rules and regulation established by the
Mayor or the Mayor's designee. Applicant agrees to comply with all other requirements of the City. County, State.
and Federal Government and any other applicable entity. which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to
abide by these rules. and further certify that I. on behalf of the Event agree to be ?nancially responsible for any
costs and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event. to the City of Detroit.

?gs. 755% lol "ii 1.8

rnIIlu - ?aw?mnm 5 Date

 

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by the Special Events Management Team, you
will be noti?ed of any requirements, fees, and/or restrictions pertaining to your event.

HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION

The Applicant agrees to indemnify and hold the City of Detroit (which includes its agencies. of?cers. elected
of?cials. appointed of?cials and employees) harmless from and against injury. loss. damage or liability (or any
claims in respect of the foregoing including claims for personal injury and death. damage to property. and
reasonable outside attorney's fees) arising from activities associated with this permit. except to the extent
attributable to the gross negligence or intentional act or omission of the City.

Applicant af?rms that Applicant has read and understands the Hold Harmless and Indemnification provision and

agrees to the terms expressed therein. .ll 
??521 394.1?
(Please Print) Hr - 

Event Name: 5?th KMM Extent Data3 I: 
Event Organizer: Mg w?k?l A 55604?: L55
5';qu IDate: (Olqle

 

Applicant Signature:

  

 

 

 

2019 Winter Blast Weekends

Event Dates/Times: Friday, January 11, 2019 4PM 11 PM
Saturday, January 12, 2019 11 AM 11 PM
Sunday, January 13, 2019 11 AM 9 PM
Friday, January 17, 2019 4PM 11PM
Saturday, January 18, 2019 11 AM 11PM
Sunday, January 19, 2019 11AM 9PM
Friday, January 25, 2019 4PM 11PM
Saturday, January 26, 2019 11AM 11PM
Sunday, January 27, 2019 11AM 9PM
Friday, February 8, 2019 4PM 11PM
Saturday, February 9, 2019 11AM 11PM
Sunday, February 10, 2019 11AM 9PM
Friday, February 15, 2019 4PM 11PM
Saturday, February 16, 2019 11AM 11PM
Sunday, February 17, 2019 11AM 9PM

Event Producer: Jonathan Witz 8.: Associates
301 W. 4th Street LL150
Royal Oak, MI 48067

Event Management:

Jonathan Witz
Event Producer

Jennifer Sutton
Marketing Sponsor Services

eff Wilson 
Director of Operations

Shannon Ferrante
Restaurant Coordinator



 

 

248-225?1212

j?enni?fera@winterblasteom, 248-541?7550

248-240?0137

734-552?7535

Stephanie McIntyre .afenhanietawinterblastzc'om. 248-541?7550

Jill Riddle 248-760-0635

Event Description:

The Winter Blast Weekends, will once again be based in Campus Martius Park and the Surrounding Areas, with
the emphasis of activities located on Cadillac Square. This signature wintertime festival debuted in January
2005 to kick?off the of?cial countdown to Super Bowl XL in Detroit. It featured an array of indoor and outdoor
winter-themed events and this year promises to be even more exciting! All outdoor events and most indoor
festivities will offer free admission, making it a great value and special attraction for Metro Detroiters.

Event Components 

1. Janna 11?1 201
0 Food Trucks
0 Marshmallow Roasting
0 Ice Sculptures (Can be themed to match proposed winter sports activation)
a Family Activities
0 Local Music Showcase Saturday and Sunday.
2. January 18~2o, 2019:
0 Food Trucks
0 Marshmallow Roasting
0 Ice Sculptures
0 Family Activities
0 Local Music Showcase featuring DJ Shchase from the Movement Festival
3. January 25-27. 2019:
. City Slopes presented by Boyne Mountain and Boyne Highlands
1- Food Trucks
- Buskers
- Family Activities
4. 1-. M?gaih'mallow Roasting
. 
0 Winter Slide
0 Food Trucks
0 Ice Sculptures
[?531 Music Showcase
Family Activities

Special Olympics Polar Plunge
- Marshmallow Roasting
- Zip Line 
- Family Fun Tent

- Local Music Showcase (evenings only)

- Ice Sculptures
in?: skating at Campus Martius Rink
. Buskers

- Marshmallow Roasting

 1g 12, Event Rani; Road Security: TRICON Security
35340 Union Lii?chiga? 1056 Dix Highway
Harrison TW- 1 43356 Lincoln Park, MI 48146
goo-2304706 i I 
5861-7914904 {a
dical'a madicgie?te Fair Cleaning-:5: Block By Block
1120 W63 4321: 607 Shelby
:3 Detroit, MI 48226
13_335?7242 313-963-2225
- A gteko -- Toilets: Service Sanitation, Inc.
9ower- 8% 19 Elm-k 3663 16 135 Blaine Street

Brighton? M1 4: 1h Gary, Indiana

2 43-486-41'30 -- 219-949-7000 ph
on Gm? Beverly Lewis

Entertain? Lent H'eatin 
Lighting 2:??st est Egg; Mile. Road 
South?eld, N11 4 '75 Brighton, MI 48116
248_353-6130 810-229-6323 ph
David Gross-man 810-229-4970 fax
Bob Finn

 

 

lel-IS

PIWPD

5m

 

 

 

 

 

2019 Winter Blast
Weekends

may pmpoom

1W1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


m1 ullp .

 

WW 

 

 

 

 

e- 591?;

 

 

 

 

 

 

1820'
2019 Layout' 
Updated: 10-4-2018 - "mm

Weekend #1.0-.Ian 11-13 A "a a.
1  
.



 
    

?ii-h?
Building hi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?mus

Stat.

 

 

momma

 

2019 Winter Blast

Weekends

1M1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.
6mm . Lag-m?


 

. . .p

?2019 laid?? ?x 
Updated: 7-24-2018 - . 
Weekend #21) - Jan 18 - 20 

 

?Mv wwooM

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3' . . . pass

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Juno; mun

3
a


i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

?35


arr%33~r 

 

   

 

zz-sz uer-o's# puaxaaM szpuaxaaM

sIoz-vz-upalepdn - . . . .
Alf-01521 6m: new 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

ms

 

 

 

 

menus

FIWPD

1950'.

sute

. 

 

 

2019 Winter Blast
Weekends

 

 

1on1 Bulldh;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Congress

'mv 

WW 

611110!

 

 

2D19 Laydut
Updated: 10-4-2018

 

 

 

 

 

1 Campus Martins

Weekend #4.0-Feb8-10 

. ,t 
?In:
A'Lih?d?f?E



 

First National


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?I-rqu-??ff?gdrf?fld I -.

 

 

 

 

momma

Pimps)



 

 

5W. am} 

 

 

2019 layout
Updated: 10-4-2018
Weekend #5.0 - Feb 15 - 17

.2019 Winter Blast

Weekend's

 



1 Campus Martins

 

 

 

 

 

1on1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

am; map

 

 

'Mv wwoom
2
I I I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pal-lung Structure

820'

"at 1ampmM-ruw
. ?at 


 

Gratin?:





fwd"-

.
5

1
.n 

2019 WINTERBLAST WEEKENDS

Street Closure Plan
Updated: October 4, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WEEKEND 

STREET CLOSURES:

DAY: TIME STREETS

Thursday, January IO, 2019 6:00 AM East Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward

STREET RE-OPENINGS:

DAY: TIME STREETS
I4, 2019 6:30 AM East Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward
2
STREET CLOSURES: 

DAY: TIME STREETS

Thursday, January I7, 20 I 9 6:00 AM West Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward

STREET 

BAY: TIME STREETS . -.-
fMtinday,? January 21, 20 [9 6:30 AM . West Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward
. WEEKEND 3

STREET CLOSURES:

. TIME STREETS .

Monday, January 21, 2019 Michigan Avenue between Griswold and Woodward
i Thursday, January 24, 20l9 6:00 AM East Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and WoOd'ward
I STREET RE-OPENINGS:

DAY: TIME STREETS
'Monday. January I4, 6:30 AM East Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward

6:30 AM Michigan Avenue between Griswold and Woodward

WEEKEND 4

STREET CLOSURES:

DAY: . TIME . 

. Saturday, February 2, 2019 6:00 AM West Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward

STREET 

DAY: TIME STREETS 

Tuesday, February 12, 2018 6:30 AM West Bound Cadillac Square? benueen Bates and Woodward

WEEKEND 5

STREET CLOSURES:

DAY: .. TIME STREETS

Thursday, February 14, 2019 6:00 AM East Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward

Friday, February 15, 2019 6:00 AM West Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward

STREET 

DA Y: .. TIME STR ETS 

Monday, February IS, 2019 6:30 AM East Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward

West Bound Cadillac Square between Bates and Woodward

 

 

 

 

2019 Winter Blast Weekends
Private Security Plan, Medical Plan and Emergency Evacuation Plan

 

Private Security Plan

The 2019 Winter Blast Weekends will utilize the services of TriCon Security as its
private security and crowd control agency. This private security group will secure all
barricades and propane fanns in and around the Winter Blast Weekends festival site.
This private security group will secure all performance stages within the Winter Blast
Weekends festival site, as well as provide roaming uniformed security throughout the
Winter Blast Weekends festival site. The private security group will work directly with
Detroit Police Department and Detroit Fire Department to ensure a safe and secure event.
The private security group will provide a list of commanding supervisors to the Detroit
Police Department and the Detroit Fire Department, along with contact information (cell
phone, pagers, etc). The private security group will have an on?site command center in
which to work from for the duration of the Winter Blast Weekends festival.

Lost Parent/Child Protocol

Whenever a child is discovered to be lost, the staff person/volunteer/vendor is instructed
to find the closest person with a radio. They MUST contact the Production Of?ce on the
Production Channel. The Production department will direct the staff person
to come to the location of the lost child. That person will conduct a brief search of the
immediate area for the parent(s). They will obtain the child?s name (if possible), write
down a description of the child and any information on the parents that is available. If
the parents are not immediately located in the area, then the staff person will take the
child to Volunteer Headquarters and inform the Production Staff. The Production staff
will- then inform police command.

Private Medical Plan

The 2019 Winter Blast Weekends will utilize Hart Medical as its private medical and
EMS provider for the downtown festival. Hart Medical will have an on?site command
center in which to work from for the duration of the Winter Blast Weekends event. Hart
Medical will work directly with Festival Management, the Detroit Fire Department and
the Detroit Police Department, and will provide a list of commanding supervisors, along
with contact information to the DPD and the DPD supervisors.

Hart Medical Response Plan

Hart Medical will provide the On?Site Emergency Medical Services for the 2019 Winter
Blast Weekends. Hart medical has been contracted by Winter Blast Weekends to
coordinate and develop an Emergency Medical Response Plan for the Private Emergency
Medical Services operating during the Winter Blast Weekends.

Hart Medical will be in operation all Winter Blast Weekends. Hart Medical will have an
Ambulance stationed at the Festival. In addition to the ambulances, Hart Medical will
have two (2) EMS personnel available in each sector of the Winter Blast Weekends.

Hart Medical will position its Command Center in the operations area of the Festival and
will invite the City of Detroit to station an EMS of?cer in Hart Medical?s command
center for coordinated deployment. The Command Center will be up and running at the
scheduled times of the Festival. Hart Medical will utilize one operator to staff the
Command Center and communicate with all services involved in the execution of the
Festival. Hart Medical will have direct communication with the Festival Management,
Detroit Police and all Hart Medical Ambulance and Sector Teams. In the event that a
large incident occurs during the 2019 Winter Blast Weekends, it is requested that Detroit
EMS Supervisor coordinate with Hart Medical. Hart Medical has reviewed all city and
county MCI and disaster plans and has reviewed them with all employees. Hart Medical
will operate in any capacity that is assigned to them in the incident, by Detroit Fire
Department, EMS Division, if requested. Hart Medical can coordinate these services
with EMS Division or the Fire Department and the Emergency Management Department.

Evacuation Plan

The Winter Blast Weekends staff will provide the above mentioned security and medical
plans for the 2019 event. In the event that an evacuation is necessary for the patrons at
the festival site the Winter Blast Weekends management team will work in conjunction
with the Detroit Police Department?s and the Detroit Fire Department?s protocol for a
proper and safe evacuation of the downtown area and will defer any and all procedures to
that of the supervising DPD and DPD staff. The Winter Blast Weekends will assist the
evacuation with announcements from all stages and performance areas using the standard
public announcement systems that will be in each area.

 

2018-10-11 548

548 Petition of Jonathan Witz 
Associates, request to hold "Winter

Blast Weekends at various locations
on 1/11/19 - 2/17/19.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

OFFICE POLICE DEPARTMENT
BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER

DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION FIRE
DEPARTMENT

BUILDINGS SAFETY ENGINEERING

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM
TO: Brad Dick, General Services Department
Ron Brundidge, Department of Public Works
VIA: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda?Lopez '1
DATE: October 25, 2018 l:9

SUBJECT: Trash in Patton Park

 

I has come to my attention that the body of water within the greenery south of the playground at
Patton Park is ?lled with refuse that needs to be removed.

Please clarify which department is responsible for cleaning up the park water.

If you have any additional questions, please contact the of?ce at 313-224-2450. Thank you.

CC: Honorable City Council
City Clerk

a . . Stephanie Washington, City Council Legislative Liaison
L?Ill? CLERK 201$.? [?37 - 

 30 520:?
ism Lay

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING AND 
PROCUREMENT 

October 26, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement recommends a Contract with the following ?rm(s) or
person(s):

6001731 100% City Funding Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority Funding
Agreement. Contractor: Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
Location: 500 Griswold St., Ste. 2200, Detroit, MI, 48226 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval for One (1) year Total Contract Amount: $10,000,000.00
(Ten Million dollars). PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract NO. 6001731 referred to in the foregoing communication dated
October 26, 2018 be hereby and is approved.

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437
PHONE 313-224-4550

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505

LAW DEPARTMENT 

 

 

October 25, 2018

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Proposed Amendment of Chapter 26 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Housing,
by adding Article V, Fair Chance Access to Rental Housing.

Honorable City Council:

At the request of Council Member Ayers, the Law Department has prepared and approved
as to form the above-referenced ordinance for your consideration. The proposed ordinance will
add an Article to Chapter 26 to provide citizens with criminal records a fair opportunity to secure
housing by regulating the use of criminal background checks as part of the tenant screening
process.

Respectfully submitted,

   
    

ior Assistant Corporation Counsel
ity of Detroit Law Department
(313) 237-2935

 A 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 26 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Housing, by adding
Article V, az'r Chance Access to Rental Housing, consisting of Sections 26?5-1 through 26-5-20,
to provide for the maintenance and protection of the health, safety and general welfare of the public
and to provide citizens with criminal records a fair opportunity to secure housing by regulating the
use of criminal background checks as part of the tenant screening process, thereby facilitating re-
integration into society and reducing the likelihood those citizens will reoffend; to establish that
the City undertaking is limited to promotion of the general welfare; to set forth de?nitions and
applicability of the article; to regulate the use and inquiry of criminal convictions by housing
providers; to establish standards for adverse action; to set forth exceptions to this article; to
establish procedures for the use of evidence of rehabilitation or other mitigating factors in housing
decisions; to require individualized assessments in certain circumstances; to set forth notice and
posting requirements for housing providers; to establish guidelines for maintenance of records by
housing providers; to protect the exercise of rights and prohibit retaliation; to require community
outreach; to set forth con?dentiality provisions; to establish implementation and enforcement
provisions, including penalties for violations; and to establish administrative rules and annual
reporting requirements.

Al7?05034; 10/25/18 i

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 26 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Housing, by
adding Article V, Fair Chance Access to Rental Housing, consisting of Sections 26-5-1 through
26-5-20, to provide for the maintenance and protection of the health, safety and general welfare of
the public and to provide citizens with criminal records a fair opportunity to secure housing by
regulating the use of criminal background checks as part of the tenant screening process, thereby
facilitating re-integration into society and reducing the likelihood those citizens will reoffend; to
establish that the City undertaking is limited to promotion of the general welfare; to set forth
de?nitions and applicability of the article; to regulate the use and inquiry of criminal convictions
by housing providers; to establish standards for adverse action; to set forth exceptions to this
article; to establish procedures for the use of evidence of rehabilitation or other mitigating factors
in housing decisions; to require individualized assessments in certain circumstances; to set forth
notice and posting requirements for housing providers; to establish guidelines for maintenance of
records by housing providers; to protect the exercise of rights and prohibit retaliation; to require
community outreach; to set forth con?dentiality provisions; to establish implementation and
enforcement provisions, including penalties for violations; and to establish administrative rules
and annual reporting requirements.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:
Section 1. Chapter 26 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Housing, be amended by adding
Article V, Fair Chance Access to Rental Housing, consisting of Sections 26?5-1 through 26-5-20,

to read as follows:

10/25/18 1

Chapter 26. HOUSING
Article V. Fair Chance Access to Rental Housing
Sec. 26-5-1. Purpose.

The purpose of this article is to enhance the health. safety and general welfare of the public
by ensuring citizens with arrest and conviction records have a fair opportunity to secure hong
by maulatinp. the use of criminal background checks as part of the tenant screeningprocess. thereby
facilitating re?integration into society. reducing recidivism and its associated criminal iustice and
societal costs. Barriers to opportunities for people with arrest or conviction records increase
recidivism and ieopardize the safety of the public. disrupt the financial and overall stability of
affected families and communities. and impede the City from achieving its maximum potential of
economic growth.

Sec. 26-5-2. City undertaking limited to promotion of general welfare.

ta] This article does not intend. and shall not be construed. to require a housing
provider to give preference to anyone or to rent to an unqualified tenant with an arrest or conviction
record. Moreover. this article shall not be construed to limit a housing provider?s ability to choose
the most qualified and appropriate candidate from applicants for housing.

This article does not intend; and shall not be construed. to create or impose a duty
or create a private cause of action against the City. its elected of?cials. appointees. officers. aaents.
or employees.

Sec. 26?5-3. Definitions.

For the purposes of this article. the foilowinp. words and phrases shall have the meaning

respectively ascribed to them by this section:

.?lde?owering creeper means the ity?s Department of Civil Rights. inclusion and

Al7-05034; 10/25/18 2

Opportunitv or CRIO.

rich-arse cit-min means to evict an individual. fail or refuse to rent or lease real propertv to an
individual. or fail or refuse to continue to rent or lease real propertv to an individual. or fail or
refuse to add a household member to an existing lease. or to reduce anv tenant subsidy. The adverse
action must relate to real propertv located in the City of Detroit.

Applicant means an individual applying to rent or lease eligible housing. It also includes an
individual applving to be added to an existing lease for eligible housing.

Arrest means a record from any iurisdiction that does not result in a conviction and includes
information indicating that a person has been questioned, apprehended. taken into custodv or
detained. or held for investigation bv a law enforcement. police. or prosecutorial agencv or charged
with. indicted. or tried and acquitted for any felony. misdemeanor. or other criminal offense.
Arrest is a term that is separate and distinct from. and that does not include, unresolved arrest.

Background check report means anv criminal historv report. including but not limited to those
produced bv the Michigan State Police. the Federal Bureau ol?lnvestigation. other law enforcement
or police agencies. courts. or bv any consumer reporting- or tenant screening. agency or business.

('mn'iction means a record from anv jurisdiction that includes information indicating that a
person has been convicted of a felonv or misdemeanor. provided that the conviction is one for
which the person has been placed on probation. ?ned. imprisoned or paroled. Those matters
identified in Section 26-5-5 about which a housing provider mav not inquire and as to which thev
mav not base an adverse action. are not considered convictions for purposes ofthis article.

Conviction hismi'v means information regarding one or more convictions or unresolved
arrests. transmitted orallv or in writing or bv anv other means. and obtained from anv source.

including but not limited to the individual to whom the information pertains or a background check

10/25/18 3

rep I't.

nomad-Mom; cum-idiot? means that the conduct for which the person was convicted or that
is the subject of an unresolved arrest that has a direct and speci?c negative bearing on the health.
safety. or right to peaceful enioyment of the premises by persons and includes one or more ot?the
ot?l?enses listed in Section 

Eligible housing means any property in the City of Detroit available for rent or lease where a
single structure contains more than four (4) dwelling. units.

Enforcing urgent-r means the Detroit Police Department or DPD.

Evidence ofrenohitirotirm or other mitigating factors means. but shall not be limited to._a
person?s satisfactory compliance with all terms and conditions of parole or probation (however,
inability to pay lines. fees. and restitution due to indieence shall not be considered noncompliance

with terms and conditions of parole or probation or both): employer recommendations. especiallv

 

concerning a person?s post-conviction employment; educational attainment or vocational or
professional training since the conviction. includina training received while incarcerated:
completion or active participation in rehabilitative treatment eg. . alcohol or drug treatment: letters
of recommendation from organizations, counselors or case manaaers. teachers.
community leaders or probation or parole of?cers who have observed the applicant since his or
her convictionts): and the age of the person at the time of the conviction. Successful completion
ol?parole. probation. mandatorv supervision. or post release community supervision shall create a
presumption of rehabilitation. Examples of mitigating factors that are offered voluntarily by the
person may include. but are not limited to. explanation of the precedent coercive conditions.
intimate physical or emotional abuse. or untreated substance abuse or mental illness that

contributed to the conviction.

Al7?05034; 10/25/18 4

Housing provider means any entity that owns. master leases. manages. or rents eligible
housing in the City of Detroit. Any agent. such as a property management company. that makes
tenancy decisions on behall? of the aforementioned entities shall also be considered a housing
provider.

Inquire means any direct or indirect conduct intended to gather information from or about an
applicant. potential applicant or candidate. using any mode o'l?cornmunication. including but not
limited to application forms. interviews. and background check reports.

Person means any individual. partnership, ?rm. company. corporation. association. sole
proprietorship, limited liability company, ioint venture. estate. trust. or any other legal entity.

Unresolved any-est means an arrest that is undergoing an active pending Criminal investigation
or trial that has not yet been resolved. An arrest has been resolved it" the arrestee was released and
no accusatory pleading was ?led charging him or her with an offense. or if the charges have been
dismissed or discharged by the prosecuting attorney or the court.

Sec. 26-5-4. Applicability: eligible housing.

This article shall apply to all housing providers with eligible housing as de?ned in this arti_cl_e

available for rent or lease located in the City ofDetroit.
Sec. 26-5-5. Prohibition on housing provider to inquire into criminal convictions of
applicants and their household members until being interviewed or quali?ed: basis for
adverse action.
Except as provided in Section 26-5-6. housing providers shall not:
inquire about or require applicants to disclose conviction history as part of tenant
screening process until the housing provider has ti rst:

ti) Determined the applicant is quali?ed to rent the housing unit under all of the

Al7-05034; 10/25/18 5

housing provider?s criteria not related to potential past criminal convictions or
an unresolved arrest: and

Provided to the applicant a conditional lease agreement that commits the unit to
the applicant as long as the applicant passes the conviction historv review.

Base an adverse action in whole or in part on:

(it An unresolved arrest or an arrest not leading to a conviction;
{ii} Participation in or completion ol?a diversion or a deferral of iudgment program:
A conviction that has been iudiciallv dismissed. expunged. voided. invalidated
or otherwise rendered inoperative bv a court of law or by executive pardon.
{iv} A conviction or anv other determination or adiudication in the juvenile iustice
svstem. or information regarding a matter considered in or processed through
thejuvenile iustiee svstem:

A misdemeanor conviction that is more than 5 vears old. measured from the date
of sentencing: 0r

{vii information pertaining to an offense or violation other than a fielonv or
misdemeanor. such as a civil inti'aetion.

A housing provider shall not include questions regarding or require applicants to

disclose on any housing application the facts or details of anv conviction historv or

anv matter identi?ed in Subsection of this Section.

it is the rcsponsibilitv ot?a housing provider to ensure that its emplovees and agents

comply with this article.

 

Sec. 26-54%.

(21)

Exceptions to prohibition.

This article does not limit the right of a housing provider to take anv ol? the

Al7?05034; 10/25/18 6



following! actions:

[1 Conduct conviction history or obtain check reports on applicants where
there is a statutory duty to do so; or

(2) Notify applicants that applicable laws. including those set forth in Subsection {l3} of
this Section will disqualify an individual with a particular conviction history From
elipibility tor tenancy.

Reaardinp applicants and their household members, a housing provider may base
an adverse action in whole or in pan on directly-related convictions that have a direct and speci?c
negative bearing on the safety of persons or real property. given the nature of the housing: and
includes one or more ot'the following:

Any conviction where state or federal law prohibits the applicant from beina eligible

For public housina: or

(2) Any conviction that leads to the applicant becoming a lifetime registered sex
offender: or

Any conviction for violent or drug-related Felonies: or

Conviction for felonies committed within the last 10 years or imprisonment for
felonies within the last 5 years: or

Any conviction for crimes against landlords. tnanapement agents. their employees or
agents, or other tenants or real property: or

Any conviction or plea to any crime involving arsom or

Any conviction or plea to any crime involving metal thel?t. vandalizing or otherwise

dainaaina real property.

Al7-05034; 10/25/18 7

Sec. 26-5-7. Procedures for use of evidence of rehabilitation or other mitigating factors in
housing decisions; requirement for individualized assessment.

Consistent with the procedures in this section and suhiect to state and federal law.
a housing provider shall offer the applicant a reasonable opportunitv to present evidence of
rehabilitation or other mitigating factors related to convictions within the previous 5 vears.

In reviewing an applicant's criminal history and making a decision related to
eligible housing based on such history. a housing provider shall conduct an individualized
assessment. considering onlv:

(1) Convictions that warrant denial based on local. state or Federal law; and

(2) Time that has elapsed since the conviction: and

(3) Whether it is a directlv-related conviction that has direct and speci?c negative
bearing on the sat?etv of persons or real propertv: and

(4) Anv evidence of inaccuracv or evidence of rehabilitation or other mitigating factors
presented bv the applicant.

It' a housing provider intends to base an adverse action related to eligible housing
on an item or items in the applicant?s conviction historv, prior to taking anv adverse action the
housing provider shall provide the applicant with a copv of the background check report. and shall
notifv the applicant of the prospective adverse action and the items the basis for the
prospective adverse action.

If. within 14 calendar days of the date that the notice described in Subsection of
this Section is provided bv the housing provider to the applicanL the applicant gives the housing
provider notice in writing ot?evidence of the inaccuracv 0f the item or items of conviction historv

or evidence of rehabilitation or other mitigating factors set forth in this Section~ the housing

10/25/18 8

provider shall delav anv adverse action for a reasonable period of not less than 5 calendar days
after receipt of the information. During that time the housing provider shall reconsider the
prospective adverse action in light of the information provided by the applicant or potential
apphcant

(cl he housing provider shall notit'v the applicant ofanv ?nal adverse action
based upon their conviction historv or contents ofthc criminal background check.

It shall be unlawful for any housing provider to engage in anv communication.
including the production or dissemination oF advertisements. related to eligible housing that
expresses. directlv or indirectlv, that any person with an arrest or conviction record will not be
considered for the rental or lease of real property or may not apply for the rental or lease of real
property. except as required bv local. state. or federal law. For purposes of this Subsection.
engaging in a communication includes. but is not limited to. making a verbal statement or
producing or disseminating any solicitation. advertisement. or signage.

Sec. 26-5-8. Notice and posting requirements for housing providers.

A housing provider shall state in all solicitations or advertisements for the rental or
lease ot?eligible housing. or made on their behalf. that the housing provider shall consider quali?ed
applicants consistent with this article. This language shall include. at minimum. the thilowing
statement:

?The rental or lease of this property must comply with the Citv of Detroit ordinance

regulating the use of criminal background checks as part of the tenant screening

process to provide citizens with criminal backgrounds a l'air opportunity. For
additional please contact the Citv of Detroit Office of Civil Rights.

Inclusion and Opportunitv.?

Al7-05034; 10/25/18 9

The administering agency shall publish and make available to housing providers.
in all lang?gcs spoken by more than 5% of the city population. a notice suitable for posting that
informs applicants for eligible housing oftheir rights under this article. This notice shall be updated
on or be Fore December 151 of any year in which there is a change in the languages spoken by more
than 5% of the city population.

to} In addition to the requirements for solicitations or advertisements in Subsection a)
of the Section. housing providers shall post a notice prominently on their website and at any
location under their control that is frequently visited by applicants or potential applicants for the
rental or lease of eligible housing in the City. This notice shall also be available to applicants in
hard copy and provided with an application. The notice requirements in this Section shall contain
the following additional information which may be summarized by the housing provider or
available from the administering agency pursuant to 26-5-14t?alt )2

'1 A description of those matters identi?ed in Section 26-5-5 that may not he considered
by the housing provider:

(2) A description of the restrictions and requirements that Section 26-5-5 imposes on
housing providers when inquiring about convictioa history in connection with an
application for the rental or lease of eligible housing in the City:

The circumstances and timeline under which the applicant or potential applicant has
a right to provide evidence of rehabilitation and other mitigating factors as provided
in Section 26-5?7: and

The telephone number. email address. and I?l?l?ilitlL?ddI?CSS of the administering
agency that the applicant or potential applicant may use to make a report il?he or she

believes the housing provider has violated this article in their interactions with the

Al7-05034; 10/25/18 10

applicant or potential applicant.
Sec. 26-5-9. Housing Provider records.

Unless prohibited by federal or state law. a housing provider shall maintain and
retain records of tenant application forms, and other pertinent data and records required under this
article. for a minimum of one vear from the date of application. and shall allow the administering,
or enforcing agencies access to such records. with appropriate notice and at a mutuallv agreeable
time. to monitor or verify compliance with the requirements of this article.

At no time shall the administering or enliorcing agencies require a housing provider
to provide any information or documents the disclosure of which would violate local. state or
federal law.

(0) Where a housing provider does not maintain or provide adequate records
documenting. compliance with this article or does not allow reasonable access to such records. the
Office of the Chief Financial Officer or other citv department or agency shall have the authoritv
to provide all nontinancial information necessarv to fulfill the administering or enforcing agencies
responsibilities under this article subiect to con?dentialitv provisions of this article and all
applicable laws.

Sec. 26?540. Exercise of rights protected; retaliation prohibited.

It shall be unlawful for a housing provider or anv other person to interfere with.
restrain. or the exercise of. or the attempt to exercise. am; right provided under this article.

[13] It shall be unlawful for a housing provider to interrupt. terminate. or fail or refuse
to initiate or conduct a transaction involving the rental or lease of eligible housing, including
falselv representing that such property is not available for rental or lease, or otherwise take adverse

action against a person in retaliation for exercising rights protected under this article. Such rights

10/25/18 11

include but are not limited to:

The right to ?le a complaint or in Form any person about a housing provider?s alleged
violation of this 

The right to inform the administering agencv about a housing provider?s alleged
violation of this article:

The right to cooperate with the administering or enforcing agencies or other persons
in the investigation or prosecution of anv alleged violation of this article; or

The right to inform any person of his or her rights under this article.

(0) Protections of this Section shall apphr to any person who mistakenlv but in good
faith alleges violations 01" this article.

Taking adverse action against a person within 90 calendar days of the exercise of
one or more of the rights described in this Section shall create a rebuttable presumption in the
administering agency?s investigation that such adverse action was taken in retaliation for the
exercise ol?those rights.

Sec. 26?5-11. Community Outreach.

The administering agency- in consultation with the Mavor?s Office. may establish
a community-based outreach pregram to conduct education and outreach to applicants and
potential applicants for housing regarding rights and procedures under this article. The program
mav be targeted at individuals or communities where, in the iudgment ol?the administering agenev.
the need for education and outreach is greatest.

{ht In establishing an outreach program pursuant to Subsection of this Section. the
administering agencv mav partner with communitv-hased organizations. Nothing in this Section

shall preclude the administering agency. bv contract or grant, and consistent with other provisions

10/25/18 12

local laws. from engaging the of such organizations in establishing such coininunitv?
based outreach programs. participating in such programs. or developing materials for such
programs. Nothing in this Section shall preclude the administering agency from combining the
outreach progrruns required bv Subsection (at of this Section with other related 
outreach programs.
Sec. 26-5-12. Confidentiality.

The Citv shall keep confidential. to the extent permitted bv applicable laws. anv identifying
information or other data pertaining to an applicant?s criminal history.
Sec. 26-5-13. Implementation and enforcement: penalties.

The administering agencv shall investigate complaints regarding a housing
provider?s alleged violation 01? this article. The administrative agency mav engage third partv
assistance to conduct its investigation.

1) Where the Director of the administering agencv determines that a Violation has not
occwred. he or she shall issue a determination that a housing provider is not in
violation ofthis article. This determination shall be provided to the housing provider
and the complainant.

(2) Where the Director of the administering agencv determines that a violation has
occurred. he or she shall issue a determination that a housing provider is in violation
of this article; provided. hOWever. for a ?rst violation. or for any violation during the
?rst twelve months following the operative date of this article. the Director must
issue warnings and notices to cannot. and offer the housing provider technical
assistance on how to comply with the requirements of this article. For a second

violation. the administering agency,r shall refer its determination for each applicant as

Al7-05034; 10/25/18 13

whom the violation occurred or is continuing to the agencv for action.
to the housing provider and the complainant.

Where the Director of the administering agenev determines that a violation has
occurred. he or she shall forward a copv of the determination to the State ot?Michigan
Department of CivilLights for consideration.

to} The administering agencv. in consultation with the Mayor?s Of?ce. is authorized
to take appropriate steps to assist in the enforcement of this article. including the investigation of
anv possible violations of this article. The administering or enforcing agencies shall not find a
violation based on a housing provider?s decision that an applicant?s conviction historv is directlv
related unless the housing provider failed to conduct the individualized assessment as required
under Section 26-5-7.

111? multiple applicants are impacted by the same violation at the same time tag. all
applicants for a certain housing unit are asked For their conviction historv on the initial application,
each violation shall be treated as a separate violation.

In accordance with Section 4it'k') of the Michigan Home Rule Cities Act. being
MCL 1 17.4itk). the penaltv upon conviction for violation of this article shall be imprisonment for
not more than 90 davs or a ?ne of not more than $500.00. or both. for each such violation. in the

discretion of the court.

 

An applicant or potential applicant mav report to the administering agencv anv
suspected violation of this article within 60 calendar davs of the date the suspected violation
occurred. The Citv shall encourage reportinn pursuant to this Subsection bv keeping con?dential.
to the maximum extent permitted bv applicable laws. the name and other identifving information

of the applicant or potential applicant reporting the violation: provided. however. that with the

10/25/18 14

authorization of such person. the City mav disclose his or her name and identifying information as
necessarv to enforce this article or for other appropriate purposes. which shall include enabling the
housing provider to respond to the alleged violation as part of an investigation bv the administeri_ng

agency.

Sec. 26-5-14. Implementation and enforcement; administrative rules and annual reporting
rcguirements.

Within 120 calendar days after the ei?tbctive date of the ordinance that added this
article. the administering agencv shall promulgate administrative rules pursuant to Section 2-1 I 
of the Charter. These rules shall include. at minimum. procedures for the following:

Preparing standardized language for the notice in Sec. 36-5-8tc) that housmg
providers may use to satist?v the requirements of that Subsection.
Timeframe and process, including noti?cation. for the following:
To housing providers that a complaint has been filed allegi_ng violation of
this article and that an investigation will occur:
Provide the housing provider a right to respond to the allegations in the
mam?m;
Receipt and consideration hv the administering agenev ot?anv response and
supporting information from a housing provider regarding the alleged violation: and
(iv) Dissemination of the administering agencv?s determination of whether an
alleged violation in the complaint was substantiated to the housing provider and
complainant. If a violation is substantiated, dissemination to the enforcing ageimvr
and State of Michigan Department of Civil Rights.

The administering and enforcing agencies shall prepare and iointlv submit an

10/25/18 15

annual report to the Mavor and City Council that includes. at a minimum. the following

information for the preceding vear:

(1)

(2)

{31

t4)



The number and tvpes of complaints it received alleging violations of this article:
The number and tvpes of violations of this article represented by the number of
determinations issued bv the Director of the administering agencv substantiating the
alleged violations;

The number and types of Violations of this article represented bv the number of
determinations issued bv the Director of the administering agency where the
allegations of violations of this article were unsubstantiated;

The number and tvpes of determinations forwarded to the State of Michigan
mpartment of Civil Rights:

The number and tvpes of tickets issued bv the enforcing agency;

Data regarding the outcome of tickets issued in court itemizing the number of
dismissals, convictions or plea arrangements, including the penalties assessed: and

The costs associated with the implementation and administration of this article.

Sec. 26-5-1 5 26?5-20. Reserved.

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,

safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are repealed.

Section 4. In the event this ordinance is passed by two-thirds majority of City Council

Member serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon publication in

accordance with Section 4?118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is passed

by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become effective

10/25/18 16

on the thirtieth (30) day after enactment, or on the ?rst business day thereafter, in accordance with
Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.
Approved as to form:

WJW

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

10/25/18 17

Brenda Goss Andrews

Alton James ?it? [If it

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Lauren Hood, MCD CITY PLANNING COMMISSION i David Esparza, LEED
Vice Chair/Secretary 208 COIeman A- Young Mun101pa1 Center Gregory Pawlowski

Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi. gov

October 19, 2018 sq

RE: Special District Review of Proposed Wall Sign at Renaissance City Club
Apartments/Millender Center (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

Frederick E. Russell. Jr.
Angry Webb

. .. . .
{bib 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

At its regular meeting of October 18, 2018, the City Flaming Commission (CPC) voted to
recommend approval of an 800 square foot illuminated wall sign proposed by SDG Architects 
Planners identifying the Renaissance City Club Apartments (RCCA) and to be displayed at the
uppermost point of the western elevation of the Millender Center.

The sign will be a static, non?programmable channel letter sign with LED lighting that will not
change colors and will not suggest motion and will be equipped with an ambient light sensor. An
image of the proposed Sign is attached.

Per the requirements of Article Division 6 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, the City Plaming
Commission and the Plaming Development Department have reviewed the proposed sign and
have found it in compliance with the on?premises sign provisions of Chapter 3, Article VII.

Because the land on which the sign is displayed is zoned Public Center Adj acent/Restricted Central
Business District (PCA), Your Honorable Body has the authority to allow an excess of the usual 500
square foot maximum for on-premises signage. CPC and ?nd that with the addition of the
proposed sign, the RCCA at Millender Center would still be within the sign area formula and that the
excess over 500 square feet would be appropriate given the size of the building and the parcel.

The CPC and also ?nd that the proposed sign satis?es the applicable approval criteria for
PCA Special district review, as provided in Sec. 61-11-97. A resolution is attached, authorizing the
Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department to issue a permit to SDG, subject to
?nal plan review by CPC staff.

Respectfully submitted,
ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
M. Rory Bolger, Staff

Attachment

A RESOLUTION BY

 

WHEREAS, SDG Architects Planners has petitioned to display an 800 square foot,
non-programmable, illuminated channel-letter wall sign at the uppermost point of the western
elevation of the Renaissance City Club Apartments (Millender Center); and

WHEREAS, Chapter 3, Article VII of the Detroit City Code customarily limits on-
premises signage to a maximum of 500 square feet except where City Council review and
approval is required; and

WHEREAS, the property is located at 555 Brush Street between East Lamed and East
Congress Streets on land zoned Public Center Adj acent/Restricted Central Business District
(PCA), a zoning district in which City Council has review and decision-making authority; and

WHEREAS, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance mandates ?special district review? and
recommendation by the City Planning Commission and the Planning and Development
Department to City Council of all exterior modi?cations to buildings on land zoned and

WHEREAS, the City Flaming Commission and the Planning and Development
Department have reviewed the proposed sign in light of the speci?ed approval criteria as
provided in Sec. 61-11-97 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the petitioner has con?rmed to the City Planning Commission that: the
LED-illuminated, static sign will be equipped with an ambient light sensor; that only the
wording, ?Renaissance City Club Apartments,? will be displayed on the sign together with a flag
and star logo; the colors of which wording and logo will not change; and the sign will be free of
animation or movement; and

WHEREAS, the City Planning Commission and Planning and Development Department
?nd the proposed sign to comport with the provisions of Chapter 3, Article VII and the special
district review and approval criteria of Article 111, Division 6 and Sec. 61-11-97 of the Detroit
Zoning Ordinance and recommend approval of the petition for said sign; and

WHERERAS, the City Planning Commission voted at its regular meeting of October 18,
2018 to recommend approval of such sign; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, the Detroit City Council approves the recommendation of the City
Planning Commission and Planning and Development and authorizes the Buildings, Safety
Engineering and Environmental Department to issue a sign permit for an 800 square foot, non-
programmable, illuminated channel-letter wall sign at the uppermost point of the western
elevation of the Renaissance City Club Apartments (Millender Center) at 555 Brush Street on
land zoned PCA, consistent with the plans and renderings by SDG Architects Planners dated
10.15.2018, provided such sign is equipped with an ambient light sensor and subject to ?nal
approval of the sign permit application by City Planning Commission staff.

 

 



0.3 
1 
2 
1 

 

 

 

 

 

2

wwmz>am>znm

9.me 

my

SDG

Architects+Plamers
Sinco'tsu

October 15. 2018

Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Two Woodward Avenue

Detroit. Michigan 48226

Re: REVISED PETITION 2 - SIGNAGE UPGRADE COMPLIANCE
From Renaissance City Club Apartments. Detroit

Dear Honorable Body:

At the request of Renaissance City Club Apartments. and pursuant to the request of the
City Planning Commission at its October 4. 2018 meeting. we are hereby resubmitting
this petition for your approval of signage modi?cations for the Renaissance City Club
Apartments complex. formerly known as the ?Millender Center".

The Renaissance City Club Apartments' properties are zoned in a PCA District. The
new owners of Renaissance City Club Apartments made a decision that the property
needs identi?cation and engaged signage professionals to develop concepts.
Subsequently. SDG conducted a thorough analysis of the proposed sign plan relating to
the zoning and signage ordinances. That analysis is attached to this petition.

The proposed signage revision will be non-programmable channel letters with LED
lighting that will display the building name only and will not change colors nor be
attractive to probable advertisers. The proposed signage would be located on the West
facade of the building facing the downtown district and will not be seen from the existing
East residences that are nearby; complying with the City Ordinance for Iumens on the
West Side.

It is considered reasonable that the Renaissance City Club Apartments would require
identifnation in order to achieve equivalent visibility of nearby structures.

We are hereby resubmitting this petition requesting approval of the signage by your
honorable body.

Legislative Policy
OCT l6 2m

l?u-r-

SDG

Mamas

Sincerely.

LINCOLN CALHOUN. AIA
Principal
806 Associates. LLC

Contact Person Phone: 313.961.9000
E-Mail: houn -a 013.com
Fax: 313.964.3233

-1.

4..



'ldn



    

 

Jul.? -

"n

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



l? W.

?gl
I

 

liagf??i 

 

 

 

 

 

 



?h 
?t f6 amend) 133815 
II 

5- .


 



IE5: IIEI

I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

I

 






 

    

 

BRUSH smear mus?



 

 

rm ROI
00.507 Alton James @itp at mean it Brenda Goss-Andrews

on . . .
qurf??od, CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ggjiyggm ?31m,
Vice Chair/ Secretary 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pawlowski
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: 

October 26, 2018
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: PCA (Public Center Adjacent) Special District Review of exterior changes of 525
Griswold Street, The Buhl Parking Garage (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

The City Flaming Commission (CPC) has received the request of The Detroit Sign Factory,
LLC on behalf of Bedrock Management Services, LLC for a proposed signage and way?nding
plan update.

REQUEST

The Buhl Garage is located at the northwest corner of Griswold and Lamed and currently has
over 600 square feet (sq. ft) of existing on premise signage. The existing signage consists of
metal directional signs as well as painted signs. Additionally there are two (2) double sided blade
signs on the comer of Griswold and Lamed and also above the entrance of the Lamed Street
frontage.

The request is to replace and consolidate the signage that currently exists on the structure into a
more aesthetically pleasing and cohesive package, reducing the total amount of sign area
signi?cantly. The request calls for 180 square feet of business signage, which is represented by
the single proposed blade sign 20? Other signage proposed in
the package is considered 1directional signage, which is not included in the total square footage
of business sign area calculated per Sec. 3-7-6 of City Code.

CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATION

CPC staff has worked with the petitioner and made minor modi?cations to the signage package
that CPC is now presenting to Your Honorable Body. CPC staff is supportive ?nding the
package to be in accordance with City Code. The Planning and Development Department has
also reviewed the matter indicated its support to CPC staff.


1 Section 3-7-6 states that (1) Except for parking structures within developments that require city council approval

of plans, the maximum total business sign area permitted on parking structures is two-hundred (200) square feet. (2)
Signs denoting hours and rates that are required by section 39-249 of this Code for parking structures licensed as
open parking stations shall not be counted against the total business sign area allowance. (3) Directional signs 
designating entrances and exits of a parking structure shall not be included in the total business sign area allowance.

 

The City Planning Commission bylaws allow staff to review ?minor exterior alterations in the
PD, PC and PCA zoning district? and take action on behalf of the Commission. As the CPC staff
has deemed the proposed changes constitute a minor exterior alteration, we have reviewed the
proposed work and ?nd the signage to be consistent with the existing architecture of the building
and the surrounding context. Furthermore we ?nd the changes to be consistent with the spirit and
intent of the PCA zoning classi?cation. Therefore, CPC staff recommends approval of the
proposal presented in the attached PDF ?le. A resolution to that effect has been drafted and
attached for Your consideration.

Respectfully submitted,

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Kimani Jeffrey, City Planner

Attachments: Plans
Resolution

Cc: Maurice Cox, Director, PDD

David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence T. Garcia, Corp. Counsel

October 26, 2018

BY COUNCIL MENIBER 

 

WHEREAS, the City Plaming Commission has received a sign permit application from The
Detroit Sign Factory, LLC on behalf of Bedrock Management Services, LLC for property
located at 525 Griswold Street, The Buhl Parking Garage, which is located within a PCA (Public
Center Adjacent District) zoning classi?cation; and

WHEREAS, Section 61-11-96 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance requires City Council approval
of such work after review by the City Planning Commission and the Plaming and Development
Department; and

WHEREAS, the proposed signs have been properly reviewed and found to be complementary to
the architecture of the building, consistent with the provisions of Chapter 3 of the City Code and
also consistent with the spirit and intent of the PCA zoning district classi?cation; and

WHEREAS, the City Flaming Commission staff has, on behalf of the City Plaming
Commission, recommended approval of the proposed working in accordance with Section 7.5 of
the City Plaming Commission bylaws; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Detroit City Council approves the design
and appearance of the proposed replacement signage package as described and reviewed in the
foregoing communication from the City Flaming Commission staff and depicted in the drawings
dated August 2018 and updated October 17, 2018, attached hereto.

 

BUHL GARAGE SIGNAGE DESIGN

BEDROCK ARCHITECTURE, AUGUST 2018

3


.131 - 


 

m-L-h-?n-d
- ,1
1.x-
Jh I
.t 

camar?rm I552.- 1 0f 12 


NEEDS
PARK



 

ABBOTT ST

HOWARD ST

0 on mutant-gamumm?uu?oc 

W. LAFAYETTE ST.



 

HEELS 151

15 




3M 
(TATE 

    

15 

LARNED ST

 

BUHLEARAGE

I Bedrock Owned Properties a: Parks I BUHL GARAGE - ?Line

 

   

IS HEINHVJ

 

.uu
nu-m


JEFFERSDN AVE

   

MAEUMB ST

 



 

ls amouw 13

GREEITDWN



:5

a
I:

LARNED ST

6?

BEDROCK
TAKE CH IDESTER. ?36523 AUGUST 2018






E. LAFAYETTE 3T.



20f12

SIGN NARRATIVE

THE BUHL GARAGE

The Buhl Building has an established, classic, easily recognizable Art Deco brand. The
Buhl Garage signage and way?nding project should also re?ect this positioning.

The current parking structure has a metal facade with ?Entrance? and "Exit Only? signs
above the entrances and several painted signs on the northeast corner indicating vehicle
direction. In addition, there are two, double sided blade signs located on the Griswold/
Larned corner as well as above the Entrance on Larned. Additional sidewalk signs offer
directions for payment and hours. Originally there were awnings above each of the en?
trances with additional sign age.

Bedrock proposes the replacement and consolidation of many of these signs into a more
cohesive and attractive signage program. The two, blighted blade signs will be replaced
with illuminated, double-sided signs made from acrylic and translucent vinyl. The colors
will mimic the brass and black metal found in the Art Deco style. The additional illumi-
nated blade signs will indicate the outer edges of the parking structure and will better
indicate the function of the building. The four (4) ?Entrance? and ?Exit Only? signs will
replace the original awning that has now been removed. Care has been taken to develop
a cohesive look to the signage, bringing a more contemporary look to the building using
modern and ef?cient elements while keeping the historic nature of the building. In addi-
tion to the new signage, the building will have new exterior paint to refresh the surfaces.

The Existing and Replacement signage comparison is listed at right.

Update 10.17.18

Although we are proposing a sign package that includes less square footage than currently
exists on the building, we are revising this pmposal by removing the Name ?Buhl" from
all of the ?Entrance? and the ?Exit Only? signs and from both of the blade signs mak-
ing these Directional Signs not included in the Business Sign allowance for Parking Struc-
tures of 200 square feet. The updated square footage estimate for Business Signs is 180
square feet and for Directional signs is 247 square feet.

 

Existing Sign

Sq. Ft.

Replacement

Sq. Ft.

 

?Park" Corner Blade Sign, 3' 11? 

Blade Sign, 4'6" 
20'h

180

 

"Griswold/Larned Garage Parking Entrance
on Griswold?: 8? high 11? wide (double
sided)

176

Blade Sign, 4?4" 5'2" 

44.77

 

Awning (since has been removed}, 4' high 
10? wide

40

 

"Enter?: 20" high 9? wide

14.94

9?6" 3?6?h
(Quantity 2i

66.50

 

"Exit Only": 20" high 9' wide

14.94

EXIT 9'6? 3?6" 
(Quantity 2)

66.50

 

Painted "Entrance" on column: 3?9" wide 
6? 4" high (on both sides of column)

23.74

 

 

Painted "Entrance" on inside of garage
entrance, portable sidewalk sign, 4? high 
12'

48

?Buhl Blade Sign, 4?4" 5'2" 

44.77

 

Awning. 60' wide 4?h (since has been
removed)

240

 

"Buhl Garage", portable sidewalk sign, 24?
36"h

12

Existing portable signs will likely remain

 

"Now Accepting Only Credit Cards and
Debit Cards", 24" 36?h

12

Existing portable signs will likely remain

 

 

 

647.62

 

 

426.54

 

 

BEDROCK
JAKE 11.36513 AUGUST ZOIH

30f12

EXISTING CONDITIONS

THE BUHL GARAGE

Corner Signage


(Ii. 1.: 

Visimlmido 





I 
..
r- 

warms-ma-
fmls?vli
Jill Inan
54h!
NM



Fri-nu" 
5m"



. . 

Building Display I 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  


..-
..

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.r my:


Griswold Entry

BEDROCK
JAKE CHIDESTER. 136523 If AUGUST 1018

  

40f12

 INSPIRATION

THE BUHL GARAGE

WW

ea

 






 

 

The Buhl Building has an established, classic. easily
recognizable Art Deco brand. The Buhl Garage
signage and wayfinding program should also reflect

this positioning.

 

"3 Slur-?-

 

??'klli? . . 

 

 

XI 

BEDROCK
IAKE :1 AUGUST 2015 5 Of 12

 





3

A 




 

 

 

    

BUHL GARAGE

   
  
   

 

 
  
  

.
fins-.545?

win-

    

NEW SIGN LOCATIONS

THE BUHL GARAGE


?u

 

 

 

 

w, 

1 
5141:1111."

 
 
 
    

 

l'n?I'l.

.
Tn?- 
.31! watts:

 


A flil?r? 

1
{:41ng Ear, 



1



        

   

   
   
   


1

ing with;

Replace existing
I awn

new illuminated 

fadede 

vmy 

?bril-?5?





?1 11 1:111 11H :15.

Ign?

 

  


14:1.- ?sz 


wad?

        

03

O3

02




 

 

 
 
   
 
       

illuminated blade

Repla ce existing
blighted blade

sign with new

Sign

 

withnew

illuminated blade

sign

painted column


Replace existing

Replace existing

with new,

on-brand. internally
illuminated

blighted monument
Sign

Replace existing

vinyl awning with
new illuminated

facade signs

monument Sign

 

60f12

BEDROCK

MKE CHIDESTER.135513 AUGUST 2013

 RISWOLD ELEVATION
THE BUHL GARAGE BUHL GARAGE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BLADE SIGN

MONU MENT
Replace existing blighted Replace existing Replace existing Replace existing Replace existing
monument sign with new, vinyl awning with vinyl awning with vinyl awning with painted column sign
on-brand, internally new illuminated new illuminated new illuminated with new illuminated
illuminated monument sign facade sign facade sign facade sign blade sign

 

 

 

BEDROCK 7 Of 12

JAKE 11' AUGUST 2018

LARN ED ELEVATION

THE BUHL GARAGE

i

 

 

BUHL GARAGE

 

    

 

 

 

 

            

MONUMENT

   

023

 

            

          

Replace existing blighted
monument sign with new,
on-brand, internally
illuminated monument sign

Replace existing
vinyl awning with
new illuminated

facade sign

Replace existing

painted column sign
with new illuminated
blade sign

 

 

BEDROCK
JAKE ?36523 11' AUGUST 20?! 8 0f 12

White Internally Illuminated
Push-through Acrylic
Letters 

 

Structural Era-2134*"

Matte Black Substrate
(May be Acrylic, Finished 
to Read as Metal) 

"Brass" Internally Illuminated
Push-Through Acrylic
Letters 


..O BL

Matte Black Trim 


?eeting-stow

Brass Trim a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OFRONT VIEW OREAR VIEW

NTS NTS

 

Internally Illuminated
White Panel 

QISOMETRIC VIEW

NTS

     

 

SIGN-O1

Monument Blade Sign


GENERAL NOTES

 

All existing conditions to be verified
In field by signage contractor

Bedrock Architecture Team to
review and approve all shop drawings
and materials prior to fabrication

All new work and rehabilitation to
be done in accordance with
recommendations from historic
consultant

MATERIALS

 

Polished Brass (May be plastic. if finished
to read as brass)

Matte Black Metal (May be plastic, if
finished to read as metal)


White Acrylic


"Brass? Acrylic

 

Not for Construction. For Pricing
and Design Intent Only

 

 

 

BEDROCK
JAKE AUGUST 2m 9 0f 12

SIG N-OZ

Entry Exit Signs

QTY: 02 ofeach. 04 total

I 9-6 .1

?anij FX

QFRONT VIEW 
OISOMETRIC VIEW

GENERAL NOTES

 

 

 

All existing conditions to be verified
In field by signage contractor

 

 

 

Bedrock Architecture Team to
review and approve all shop drawings
and materials prior to fabrication

All new work and rehabilitation to
be done in accordance with
recommendations from historic
consultant

 
   

 

 

 

 

MATERIALS

 

. 

Polished Brass (May be plastic, if finished
to read as brass)



Matte Black Metal (May be plastic, if
finished to read as metal)
I 9"6 u'

 

White Acrylic

"Brass" Acrylic
FRONT VIEW FULL SIZE FIRST 9 ISOMETRIC VIEW Not for Construction. For Pricing
ARTICLE and Design Intent Only

 

 

 

 

 

 

BEDROCK
IAKE x3652! AUGUST 2015 1 0 Of 1 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5'-2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QSDEWBN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

SIG N-O3

Blade Sign

OTY. 02

GENERAL NOTES

 

All existing conditions to be verified
In field by signage contractor

Bedrock Architecture Team to
review and approve all shop drawings
and materials prior to fabrication

All new work and rehabilitation to
be done in accordance with
recommendations from historic
consultant

MATERIALS

 

Polished Brass. (May be plastic, if finished
to read as brass)

Matte Black Metal (May be plastic, if
finished to read as metal)

White Acrylic
?Brass" Acrylic

 

Not for Construction. For Pricing
and Design Intent Only

 

 

 

BEDROCK
IAKE x36523 ll AUGUST 2016 1 1 Of 12

i at JD ZI DWI

DOA 

 

 

CPC File 

 

Date of Filing:

 

RE:

 

 

City Planning Commission

202 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

(313) 224-6225 (phone)

(313) 224-4336 (fax)

 

APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL APPROVAL IN THE
PD (PLANNED DEVELOPNIEN T), PC (PUBLIC CENTER) AND
PCA (RESTRICTED CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT) ZONING DISTRICTS

 

 

 

The City Council of the City of Detroit requires a report and recommendation from the City
Planning Commission on development proposals proposed in PD, PC, and PCA zoning
districts. Please provide the following necessary information regarding the proposal so than
the Commission may proceed in its review process.

The City Planning Commission may schedule a discussion or public hearing on this matter
a?er all the required information has been received. The applicant (or a representative ofthe
applicant) is generally expected to be present at such discussion or public hearing to present
the proposal and to answer any questions.

The applicant will be noti?ed at least seven (7) days prior to the meeting at which the
proposal will appear on the Commission's agenda.

The City Planning Commission may request all necessary information pertaining to any

development matters referred to it by the City Council in carrying out its duties as set forth in
Section 4-402 and 6-204 of the City Charter.

Failure to answer all pertinent Questions and to supply; all of the reguested information
will delay processing of this proposal.

NOTE Applicants proposing a rezoning to the PD (Planned Development District) zoning .
classi?cation must complete this application.

?l
Miti-
Signatur of?itpplicant: 4&1 - - lambMi/r

i Date: iO/dI/i?;

Revised 12/01 Page 1 of 11

2'12,

ZONING FEE:

Effective January 11, 1995, the applicant will be charged a fee for the processing of a request to
rezone property. The fee schedule is as follows:

 

?2:qu Program Fee

One acre or less $350.00

Over one acre $350.00 for the ?rst acre plus $25.00
for each additional acre to a maximum
of $1,000.00

Payment of the fee must be in the form of a check or money order payable to the
"City of Detroit - Treasurer".

Revised 12/01 Page 2 of 11

ITEMS 1 - 20 TO BE COMPLETED BY ALL APPLICANTS

(1) Name of Applicant ch 5- 911-61 1 31th 1:111:16? 
Address oprplicant' 1 13 8? 1:11:11. kl 111?. 5111711? 5111.116 10?? 3
City, State, Zip Code. D6110 1111111one Number (7 1171;, 5?1 7 1 K11 

(2) Name ofProperty Owner: Pam rocsK Service?s. LLC
Address ofProperty Owner: (030 111/ 1213(1111?111?11 016;
City, State, Zip Code. DQ111311 1, Wu: 3L
Telephone Number._ .3) 3'1 3? 81112?1

(3) Name of Architect (if any): 151?" (1?66 1141.178
Address of Architect: 5 11f? ATV ?is U113
City, State, Zip Code: ?7pr i L13 )1 :1 1n

Telephone Number:

 

(4) Proposed Manager (if any):

 

Address of Manager:

 

 

City, State, Zip Code:

 

Telephone Number:

 

(5) Name of Developer:

 

Address of Developer:

 

City, State, Zip Code:

 

Telephone Number:

(6) Title ofProposal: 151.le1 111.53 Shack?? 31125111 Pep [deep/16113

 

 

Revised 12/01 Page 3 of 1 1

 

 

 

(7) General Description ofProposal: 13,161th1 Q?o?n?1' 
Prep-wee +1,ng lElu?JlClUZmla??b (1.151 
5151115: CNN 11% Red-11 {barking
ln?lo at. More (0111261111? ext-101 613111 dC?l?/ve
Stqhaj)? Program .

(8) Address ofSubject Parcel: 5,25 Griswold 81936-1? 91??

Between 51661 and learner/1



(Street) (Street)

(9) Legal Description of Subject Parcel: (May be attached)
111 Grimm)? 7) Tam 1 1511130 N. Lamee1 latent; ?111113"
1911391133 1L1 Ream/n13" 1.1.1 Q/Ssrizd??R/H?J
(Pounce/1 10110200101311)

(10) General Location of Subject Property:

Cornet o! Grt?wolv?151?i?i? 01nd Rat neci 
?11/ 11%, 1Blilb111?ejp

(11) Present Zoning of Subject Parcel:
'buh1 Garaojge 116 20111ch PCA . T113: Duh 1 15/111411?
116611-16 gone? 1:511,

(12) Proposed Zoning of Subject Parcel (if change is being requested):

 

 

(13) Size ofSubject Parcel (Dimensions): 1'10 $210

(Acreage): _l 

Revised 12/01 Page 4 of 11

 

 

(14) If rezoning to PD is preposed, state reason why the present zoning classi?cation is not
appropriate and why the PD zoning classi?cation is more appropriate.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(15) Zoning of Adjacent Properties:

?To the North -

 

 

To the South -

 

To the East -

 

To the West -

 

(16) Development of Adjacent Properties:

To the North -

 

To the South -

 

To the East -

 

To the West -
Size of Proposed Structure(s)

(17) Ground Coverage Dimensions of Each Structure:

(A)

 

 

(B)
(C)
(D)
(E)

 

 

 

 

Revised 12/01 Page 5 of 11

 

 

 

 

(18) Gross Square Footage of Each Total Structure and Each Floor of Each Structure(s):
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
(E)

 

 

 

 

 

(19) Height (in stories and feet) of Each Structure(s):

(A)

 

(B)
(C)
(D)

 

 

 

(E)

 

(20) Total Gross Square Footage of All Structures:

 

 

COMPLETE LINES 21 25 1F RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT IS PROPOSED

(21) The total number of each type of residential building proposed (townhouse, garden
apartments, etc.)

 

 

(22) Total Number of Dwelling Units: of which

are ef?ciency units of sq. ft. each;
I

 

are 1-bedroom units of sq. ft. each;

are 2-bedroom units of sq. ft. each;

 

are 3-bedroom units of sq. ft. each; and

 

are other (specify) of sq. ft. each.

 

Revised 12/01 Page 6 of 11

 

 

 

 

(23) Anticipated Rent Structure:

 

(24) Number of Subsidized Units:

 

 

(25) Special Amenities Provided (swimming pool, community area, outdoor recreation, etc.)

 

 

 

 

 

 

(26) IF NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT IS PROPOSED, STATE IN DETAIL THE
INTENDED USE OF THE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMPLETE ITEMS 27 - 29 IF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT IS WITHIN A
DISTRICT COUNCIL AREA

(27) Name of Citizens? District Council: 

(28) Date of Citizens? District Council Approval:

 

(29) Date of Detroit Housing Commission Approval:

 

Revised [2/01 Page 7 of 11

 

REMAINING ITEMS TO BE CONIPLETED BY ALL APPLICANTS

(30) Total Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces Proposed: (23 59? of which
ck? will be structure parking and will be surface parking.

(31) Size of Surface Parking Area (square feet): 0

 

 

 

(32) Size of Parking Structure Ground Coverage (square feet(33) Number of Levels: 0?

(34) Number of off-street parking spaces required by Zoning Ordinance: 

 

(35) Types of inancing/Subsidy Mechanisms:

 

 

 

(3 6) (IF APPLICABLE) Number and type of structure(s) presently existing on site that are to be
demolished as part of this development:

are

 

 

(37) (IF APPLICABLE) Legal description of streets and alleys (or portions thereof) to be vacated
(a separate sheet must be attached justifying in substantial detail such vacations and stating
impact such vacations would have on adjacent properties; in addition, because staff of the
Commission will be contacting the Department of Transportation, the Department of Public
Works, the Police Department and the Fire Department and requesting each Department's
o?icial Mitten opinions on these vacations, time will be saved if the applicant has already made
the necessary contacts and has attached the Department's of?cial opinions in writing to this
application)



 

 

 

Revised 12/01 Page 8 of ll

 

 

 

(38) (IF APPLICABLE) Legal Description of streets and alleys to be dedicated (may be attached);
(in addition, because staff of the Commission will be contacting the Department of
Transportation, the Department of Public Works, the Police Department and the Fire Depart-
ment and requesting each Department's of?cial written opinions on these dedications, time will
be saved if the applicant has already made the necessary contacts and has attached the
Department's of?cial opinions in writing to this application):

 

 

 

 

(39) (IF APPLICABLE) Nature of Necessary Modi?cation to an Adopted Development Plan:

 

 

 

 

(40) Describe any energy saving features of this development:

 

 

 

 

(41) Community Organizations and/or Block Clubs contacted by applicant:

Group Name/Address Contact Person/Phone Number

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Revised 12/0] Page 9 of 1

 

 

(42) Adjacent Property Owners, Businesses or Residents contacted by Applicant:

Name

Indicate:
Owner

Business
Resident

 

Addre

SS

 

 

Address of
Adi aeent Property

 

 

 

Phone

 

 

 

 

 

(43) Number of new employees anticipated as a result of this proposal:

Temporary:

Permanent:

(44) Anticipated Beginning Construction Date:

 

 

 

(45) Anticipated Construction Completion Date: Partial-

Total-

(46) Letters of Review and/or comment from Reviewing Agencies attached:

D-DOT





Planning Development

Recreation



Police
Fire





Public Lighting

Aviation





DPW

Revised 12/01

Air Quality Management

Dated:
Dated:
Dated:
Dated:
Dated:
Dated:
Dated:
Dated:
Dated:
Dated:
Dated:



{ll

Page 10 ofll

 

PLANS AND MAPS:

Submit ten (l2) copies of plans and maps of the proposed development at a scale of'not less than 
20" if the subject parcel is under 3 acres, and not less than 100' if the subject parcel is 3 acres
or more. Such plans and maps are to be dimensional and must include the following details:

A. Outline of subject parcel with all adjacent and abutting public right-of-way lines.

B. Layout and con?guration of all buildings presently existing on the subject parcel.

C. Layout and con?guration of all proposed buildings and existing buildings to remain on the
subject parcel.

D. Layout and con?guration of proposed parking area(s), access road(s), and screening, as well as
vehicular and pedestrian circulation pattems within and adjacent to the site.

B. Sign location(s) and detail(s) (if applicable).
F. Survey indicating existing on-site utility easement(s) and installation location(s).

G. Landscaping plan indicating height (existing height or height at time of planting), species and
location of such, and indicating which are existing and which are to-be-planted.

H. All elevations of proposed building(s) with indication of the type of exterior materials to be used.
I. Location and design of pedestrian and driveway/parking area lighting ?xtures (if applicable).
J. Location of alleys and/or streets to be vacated and/or dedicated (if applicable).

K. Location of all outside trash or rubbish storage areas.

Revised 12/01 Page 11 of I 

 

 

 

 

