Committee of the Whole Room 1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center (313) 224-3443 Detroit, MI 48226

CHAIRPERSON - COUNCIL PRESIDENT
BRENDA JONES

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2018

_____ A.

12:00 P.M. – CLOSED SESSION – RE: At the request of P.O. Hakeem Patterson
to consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or
charges brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public
officer, employee, staff member, or individual agent. The representation and
indemnification of P.O. Hakeem Patterson in the matter of Michaelangelo Jackson
et al. v City of Detroit et al., Wayne County Circuit Court Case No: 18-001339 NI,
will be discussed with Law Department attorneys, representatives from the Detroit
Police Department, P.O. Hakeem Patterson and James M. Moore, Esq. of the Law
Office of Gregory, Moore, Jeakle & Brooks, P.C., on behalf of P.O. Patterson, the
Detroit Police Officers Association as well as attorneys from the Legislative Policy
Division.

_____ B.

12:30 P.M. – CLOSED SESSION – RE: At the request of P.O. Steven Fultz to
consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or
charges brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public
officer, employee, staff member, or individual agent. The representation and
indemnification of P.O. Steven Fultz in the matter of Michaelangelo Jackson et al.
v City of Detroit et al., Wayne County Circuit Court Case No: 18-001339 NI, will
be discussed with Law Department attorneys, representatives from the Detroit
Police Department, P.O. Steven Fultz and James M. Moore, Esq. of the Law Office
of Gregory, Moore, Jeakle & Brooks, P.C., on behalf of P.O. Fultz, the Detroit
Police Officers Association as well as attorneys from the Legislative Policy
Division.

_____ C.

1:00 P.M. – CLOSED SESSION – RE: At the request of P.O. Richard Billingslea
to consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or
charges brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public
officer, employee, staff member, or individual agent. The representation and
indemnification of P.O. Richard Billingslea in the matter of Michaelangelo Jackson
et al. v City of Detroit et al., Wayne County Circuit Court Case No: 18-001339 NI,
will be discussed with Law Department attorneys, representatives from the Detroit
Police Department, P.O. Richard Billingslea and James M. Moore, Esq. of the Law
Office of Gregory, Moore, Jeakle & Brooks, P.C., on behalf of P.O. Richard

 Closed Sessions
Friday, November 9, 2018

2

Billingslea, the Detroit Police Officers Association as well as attorneys from the
Legislative Policy Division.

 