New BMW
20 

BUDGET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

ditty nt Eetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy Manager
Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

?/57

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood

George Etheridge
Deborah Goldstein

TO: The Honorable City Co ci]

   
 

FROM: David Whitaker, Directo . 
Legislative Policy Div' inirStaff

DATE: November 1 5, 201 8

RE: Ordinance to Add Detroit Supply Schedule to Purchasing Procedures

An ordinance to amend Chapter 18, Finance and Taxation, Article V, Purchases and Supplies,
by adding Division 11 to permit creation of the Detroit Supply Schedule has been submitted to the City
Council for approval. The public hearing on the ordinance has been set for Tuesday, November 20,
2018. City Council?s Legislative Policy Division has been directed, by the Budget, Finance and Audit
Committee, to review and comment on this proposed amendment.

The Detroit Supply Schedule Program, according to the overview from the Of?ce of Contracting
and Procurement, is a procurement vehicle to be used for ?recurring goods and services? by leveraging
the buying power of the City to negotiate price discounts on commonly used goods and services.
Creation of the Detroit Supply Schedule is based on the experience of Washington DC, which has used
Supply Schedules for the past 20 years.

The Supply Schedule Program establishes a 2-part solicitation from vendors. The Chief
Procurement Of?cer is authorized to initially issue a Request for Proposals (RFP) for goods and services
identi?ed in that request. From this RFP, contracts for vendors will be recommended to the City
Council, to be approved, for up to 5-year terms [with option to renew 5 additional years] to provide the
goods and/or services, as needed, at prices established by the contract. City Council?s approval of these
contracts will establish the Supply Schedule. Additional vendors or acceptable contractors may be added
to the Supply Schedule list of contractors at any time. The ordinance provides that at least three (3)
responses must be received before a contract will be submitted to the City Council to establish the Supply
Schedule.

 

The Honorable City Council
Ordinance to Add Detroit Supply Schedule to Purchasing Procedures
November 15, 2018

Page 2

When the Of?ce of Contracting Procurement receive requisitions from City departments or
agencies for speci?c goods and services that are needed, cost quotations, will be requested from the
Supply Schedule of approved contractors. The lowest responsible bidder or bidders will be issued the
authority to provide the goods or services for ful?ll the speci?c request. Equalization credits will be
applied to the cost quotations for eligible vendors. City Council approval will not be required for the
agreement to deliver actual goods and services. The proposed Detroit Supply Schedule is meant to
expedite the delivery of goods and services, make better use of staff time by eliminating frequent
repetitive purchases of the same goods and services, reduce the City?s cost for the procurement process,
and reduce costs from vendors for required goods and services.

In addition to providing for the establishment of Supply Schedules, the ordinance also, provides
that the Supply Schedule, guidelines and publications will be available on the website of the Of?ce of
the Chief Financial Of?cer; an Annual Review of the program shall be conducted by the Chief Financial
Of?cer comparing prices of the City for goods and services with the market rates; and an overview of
the Supply Schedule Program is to be provided, by the Chief Procurement Of?cer, to the City Council
every ?ve (5) years.

The ordinance further provides for the establishment of a ?reserved bidding schedule? through
which the Chief Procurement Of?cer shall reserve at least 30% of the Supply Schedule contracts to a
reserved bidding schedule, for Detroit-based businesses only. The City Council shall review and approve
the Supply Schedule Reserved Bidding Schedule, every 5 years. The Chief Procurement Of?cer shall
then obtain bids from vendors to ?ll the Reserved Bidding Schedule. However, if the results from
vendors to ?ll the reserved bidding schedule are not satisfactory to the Chief Procurement Of?cer, he/ she
shall report to City Council the need to re-classify the Reserved Bidding Schedule as a regular Supply
Schedule and comply with the general provisions of the Supply Schedule Program.

Section 18-5?177 of the Supply Schedule Ordinance directs the Chief Procurement Of?cer and
the Director of Civil Rights and Inclusion Of?ce to encourage participation of Detroit-based businesses
and Detroit residents in the City? procurement process through the development of workshops, seminars
and educational materials. Speci?cally, two (2) educational and outreach meetings are to be scheduled
in each council district annually (for a total of at least 14 meetings). In addition, the City is to work
with local colleges and the Detroit Public Schools Community District to encourage entrepreneurship
and skills required to successfully participate in the bidding process.

There are clearly many bene?ts to the City and Detroit residents through the establishment of the
Detroit Supply Schedule Program, as provided in the proposed ordinance. The City Council electing to
approve the Supply Schedule vendors and give up the authority to approve the vendor?s individual
contracts for delivery of goods and services. The trade-off is designed to provide a process that is to
expedite delivery of goods and services, and hopefully reduce some costs. It is not clear at this point
how much of the total procurement will be done through the Supply Schedules. The Of?ce of
Contracting and Procurement (0C) has prepared a draft of 10 Supply Schedules, that appears to include
almost all commodities purchased by the City, with the exception of vehicles.

The Honorable City Council
Ordinance to Add Detroit Supply Schedule to Purchasing Procedures
November 15, 2018

Page 3

In summary, the Supply Schedules appear to be established with the approval of the contracts by
the City Council. Contracts cannot be submitted to the City Council unless at least 3 responses to the
Request for Proposals are received. The de?nition of the Supply Schedule does not include any
minimum number of approved contracts to be established. A question may be if the Supply Schedule
can be established with City Council?s approval of one (1) contract. Or, if after three contracts are
approved, as part of a Supply Schedule, should two contractors be unable to continue, can the Supply
Schedule still be used?

At this time, the Supply Schedules, proposed by OCP, appear to be quite general. It is not
entirely clear, from the ordinance, how the Requests for Proposals will be issued, for the entire Supply
Schedule, or for portions of that schedule.

Equalization factors are not applied in the selection of quali?ed contractors for the Supply
Schedules. This makes some sense, as this is only the establishment of a list of acceptable bidders.
Equalization is applied to the Request for Quotations and the determination of the Lowest acceptable
bid, to actually provide the goods or services.

City Council is to review and approve the Reserved Bidding Schedule, for Detroit Certi?ed
businesses, every 5 years. This does not seem to be frequent enough. The ordinance is requiring a
concerted effort to reach out and encourage participation of Detroit businesses to participate in the City?s
procurement. Hopefully, the workshops and seminars will be successful, and will result in a signi?cant
increase in Detroit businesses submitting proposals to be part of a Supply Schedule.

Finally, the City Council is provided an overview, by the Chief Procurement Of?cer, of the
Supply Schedule Program, once every 5 years, beginning in 2024. This does not seem to be frequent
enough for City Council to have adequate oversight of the program, and provide the necessary
information to assure City Council members, that goals are being met, especially as it affects the reserved
bidding schedule.

The concerns raised in this report may be addressed by future amendments, once the Detroit
Supply Schedule has been established and the operation of the Supply Schedules can be assessed.
Concerns may also be addressed through Rules and Procedures. City Council may wish to request, and
include in the ordinance, that Rules and Procedures developed to implement the Detroit Supply
Schedules be submitted to the City Council for review.

K00

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

 

COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM
TO: David Bell, Director, BSEED
Brad Dick, GSD
VIA: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez
DATE: November 15, 2018 

FY 18/ 19 Budget Closing Resolution Follow?up (Demos)

During the FY 2018-19 budget process, City Council urged the Administration to consider the
proximity of blighted buildings to DLBA community partners, active non-pro?ts and other

selected neighborhood organizations when determining which residential and commercial
structures would be boarded and demolished.

In its response to Council, the Administration said that it is ?examining the criteria for
prioritizing demolished or boarded structure." Please provide a list ofthe criteria being
considered as well as the timeline for completion of this process.

If you have any additional questions, please contact the of?ce at 313?224-2450. Thank you.

CC: Honorable City Council
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Of?ce
Stephanie Washington, City Council Legislative Liaison

- 
L- 

- a
.


4? - 




ital

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

 

COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM
TO: Donald Rencher, Director, HRD
DBA
VIA: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez
DATE: November 15, 2018

SUBJECT: FY 18/ 19 Budget Closing Resolution Follow-up (Credit Repair Workshops)

Given that low credit scores are a leading reason for rejected 0% Home Loan program

applications, Council requested in the FY 18/19 Closing Resolution that HRD conduct annual
credit repair workshops in each Council District.

The Administration responded that DBA participates in the Small Business Empowerment fairs,
with a focus on the process of purchasing city owned property.

How has participation in these fairs helped improve residents? credit scores or reduce this

barrier? If these fairs have not resulted in improvements, what other strategies are being
implemented?

Has the Administration explored the possibility of conducting annual credit repair workshops in
addition to the small business empowerment fairs?

If you have any additional questions, please contact the of?ce at 313-224-2450. Thank you.

0-.
.5- .21 

CC: Honorable City Council 
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Of?ce
Stephanie Washington, City Council Legislative Liaison

Inns 1

5- 




\loZ.

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

 

COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM
TO: Maurice Cox, Planning and Development Department
VIA: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez

DATE: November 15, 2018
SUBJECT: FY 18/19 Budget Closing Resolution Follow-up (Master Plan)

 

During the FY 2018-19 budget process, Council urged a wholesale update of the Master Plan,
including neighborhood plans, a future mobility plan, and open space plan.

In its response, the Administration provided an update on ?nding to create a transportation
master plan and a downsized effort for master planning of Public Lands (open spaces) in the
Greater Mohican Regent area.

Please respond to the following regarding the wholesale update of the City?s Master Plan:
. What is the Administration's plan and timeline for developing a city-wide open spaces
plan?

. What is the Administration's plan to develop a comprehensive update to the Master Plan
to include neighborhood plans beyond those selected for SNF investment?

If you have any additional questions, please contact the of?ce at 313-224-2450. Thank you.

CC: Honorable City Council 
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Of?ce
Stephanie Washington, City Council Legislative Liaison



lLoB

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

 

COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: Saskia Thompson, Director, Detroit Land Bank Authority

Maurice Cox, Flaming and Deve10pment

VIA: Council President Brenda Jones

FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez

DATE: November 15, 2018

SUBJECT: FY 18/ 19 Budget Closing Resolution Follow-up (DLBA Transfers)

 

During the FY 2018-19 budget process, City Council urged the DLBA to develop a speci?c
timeline for the transfer of properties from the City of Detroit to the DLBA, to aid in monitoring
the ef?ciency of housing and blight remediation concerns.

In its response to Council, the Administration noted that ?The City of Detroit still owns
approximately 6,000 residential properties that it had intended and attempted to transfer to the
DLBA previously.? Please elaborate on the ?nancial, legal or other barriers that have prevented
these transfers.

What is the projected timeline for transferring residential property to the Land Bank and for the
Land Bank to transfer any commercial property back to the city?

If you have any additional questions, please contact the of?ce at 313-224-2450. Thank you.

CC: Honorable City Council
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Of?ce
Stephanie Washington, City Council Legislative Liaison



RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM

 

TO: Maurice Cox, Planning and Economic Development
Ron Brundidge, Public Works

VIA: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez
DATE: November 15, 2018 

SUBJECT: FY 18/19 Budget Closing Resolution Follow-up (Buffers)

 

 

During the FY 2018?19 budget process, City Council urged the Administration to incorporate
roadside vegetative buffers or green space between residential areas and other uses in
infrastructure improvement and development projects. Buffers can be an inexpensive means to
screen noise and odors and have been shown to improve air quality and health outcomes' by
reducing the pollutants that reach residents.

In its response, the Administration mentioned some environmentally friendly steps that have
been taken to modemize facilities and recycle.

Please provide information on any efforts to incorporate buffer space.

If you have any additional questions, please contact the office at 313-224-2450. Thank you.

CC: Honorable City Council
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Of?ce
Stephanie Washington, City Council Legislative Liaison

 

1 According to CAPHE, buffers can lead to ?improvements over time in re5piratory diseases such as asthma and
reduced lung irritation, coughing, and difficulty breathing; reduced lung diseases; fewer heart attacks, irregular
heartbeat, and cases of cardiovascular disease; fewer lo birth weight infants; and cancer.? See CAPHE. Buffers and
Barriers. 2016 available at 


 

lto'v?

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: Ron Brundidge, Director, DPW
Gary Brown, Director, DWSD
Brad Dick, GSD

VIA: Council President Brenda Jones
FROM: Council Member Raquel Casta?eda-L?pez

I
DATE: November 15, 2018

SUBJECT: FY 18/19 Budget Closing Resolution Follow-up (Alleys)

 

 

During the FY 2018-19 budget process, City Council urged the Administration to devise and
fund a comprehensive plan to address the conditions of alleys in Detroit, including removal of
debris and blight, maintenance of drains, pest control, and installation of lights.

In its response to Council the Administration stated that it is making heavy equipment available
to neighborhoods groups to help them clean out their alleys. Please respond to the following:

1. What speci?c heavy equipment and how many will be made available to neighborhood
groups during Motor City Makeover?

Who will be responsible for operating the heavy equipment? (If residents, what, if any,
are the requirements neighborhood group representatives must meet to operate this
equipment?)

How can residents request heavy equipment on Motor City Makeover for alley clean-up?
How can residents not belonging to neighborhood groups receive support in cleaning out
their alleys?

What is the City's plan to address blighted alleys behind DLBA-owned homes?

What is the City's plan to maintain the alley drains?

What is the City's plan regarding alley lighting?

In addition to Motor City Makeover, are there any continual or year-round initiatives
residents can access to maintain their alleys?





90:49.?

If you have any additional questions, please contact the of?ce at 313-224-2450. Thank you.

CC: Honorable City Council 3 
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Of?ce 
Stephanie Washington, City Council Legislative Liaison 5

