NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. Your?: MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 Woonwmo AVENUE. sum; l026
Demon", MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT Puomz: 3 I3 - 6283158
OFFICE OFTIIE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 3 I3 . 2,4 . 0542

OFFICE or DEVELOPMEN AND GRANTS 

 

January 4, 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the Bloomberg Cities of
Service for the FY 2019 Engaged Cities Program

The Department of Neighborhoods is hereby requesting authorization from Detroit City
Council to submit a grant application to the Bloomberg Cities of Service, for the FY 2019
Engaged Cities Program. The amount being sought is $50,000.00. There is no match
requirement for this grant. The total project cost is $50,000.00.

The Engaged Cities funding will enable the department to:

. Provide operating support for ongoing community engagement initiatives and
activities of the Department of Neighborhoods for Detroit residents.

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,



Ryan Friedrichs
Director, Of?ce of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker, Assistant Director. Grants


. .
- 

.1-1:


Fr?;

Tl'iki
us3"?2



Of?ce of Development and Grants 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS. the Department of Neighborhoods has requested authorization from City Council to
submit a grant application to the Bloomberg Cities of Service. for the FY 2019 Engaged Cities
Program, in the amount of $50,000.00, to provide Operating support for ongoing community
engagement initiatives and activities for Detroit residents; and

WHEREAS, there is no match requirement for this grant; and

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Department of Neighborhoods is hereby authorized to
submit a grant application to the Bloomberg Cities of Service.

Page'loH

Ol'?u of Grants Monument
GrantApplieatlon Request Form

In order to secure the O?lce of Grants required under Section of the
Detroit City Charter, this form is to be ?lled out by City Department: as soon at possible upon learning

plan opportunity that the Department would

like to pursue. this form must be submitted not later than

20 business days prior to the application deadline.

Please submit this form to Sa?lah Parker. Associate Director. Oltice at Grants Management at



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

my Department 
Date 1mm
Elmo! (omen Home ?donation-I
Went Contact Phone art-azure:
Department Contact Email amen
Grant Opportunity 118a Expo-d tau-tore
. Grunt Fundlg 5':ch uncle-Mn
Wei: Unit to Opportunly lnionnation mudtlmudmh murmur

 

Award Amount (that Department will apply tort

 

 

 

 

 

 

Application Due Date Jun-no II. am

Duration of Grant one year

Anticipated Proposed Bucket Amount team

Match Multan? Amount tin

Soon: ol MM (include Appropriation

Number. Cost Corner, and Object Code) 

:33; an: 5' This $50,000 would be an award for cperall n9
3mg 3., for the EIDN in aCRanledgmant of the
Sample: impact its programs have had on Detroit

- program: 51mm maidents.

-m Youth leadership program: $10.1.le

dainty/length: Sumo

5mm 55:?

 

Brief Statement oiPriorltiuIPurpose for the
Appllutlort

Sample: To support eapontian ofpromitlng
youth derelopmentprogromsm MND

Midterm.

To support the ongoing community
engagement activities of the DON

 

ltey Winn indlatore to Ire Used to
Meaturethe 
Sample:

.1 ofkids newly enrolled man: mm
mud: witocompiete Axondm

oflrids?om not: who demonstrate
improved educationai pen'onnonte

8 ofkids from It! who demonstrore improved
leadership skill:

 

Number cl residents engaged in Halloween in
the D. Motor City Makeover and other
DON-sponsored community engagement
activities.

 

 

 

1?4?2142 

Director's Slmature

_Lijda(ri

Ulte

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 sum: 1026
Demon; MICHIGAN 48226

PHONE: 313 - 628-2158

FAX: 313 224 . 0542


Cn'v or DETROIT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
OFFICE or DEVELOPMENT AND Gums

 

January 14. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
ATTN: City Clerk Of?ce

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Authorization to submit a grant application to the United Way for
Southeastern Michigan for the FY 2019 Summer Food Service Program Support
Staff Grant

The General Services Department is hereby requesting authorization from Detroit City
Council to submit a grant application to the United Way for Southeastern Michigan for
the FY 2019 Summer Food Service Program Support Staff Grant. The amount being
sought is $13,375.00. There is no match requirement.

The FY 2019 Summer Food Service Program Support Staff Grant will enable the
department to:

. increase the staff capacity to deliver services efficiently and effectively for the
Summer Food Service Program

. Hire one Data Specialist and three part-time Monitors

We respectfully request your approval to submit the grant application by adopting the
attached resolution.

Sincerely,



Ryan Friedrichs
Director. Office of Development and Grants

"Hui:

CC:
Katerli Bounds, Deputy Director, Grants
Sajjiah Parker. Assistant Director, Grants


rial-n? 



??rl --. 


i" Mu.


.

arr-.3 r-I
L-le a 



Office of Development and Grants tin-(mum

7 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS. the General Services Department has requested authorization from City Council to
submit a grant application to the United Way for Southeastern Michigan. for the FY 2019 Summer
Food Service Program Support Staff Grant, in the amount of $13,375.00, to increase the staff
capacity to deliver services ef?ciently and effectively for the Summer Food Service Program; now

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the General Services Department is hereby authorized to
submit a grant application to the United Way for Southeastem Michigan for the FY 2019 Summer
Food Senrice Program Support Staff Grant.

Page 1 oi 1

 

Office of Grants Management
Grant Application Request Form

 

in order to secure the Of?ce of Grants Management approval required under Section 184-2 of the
Detroit City Charter, this form is to be filled out by City Departments as soon as possible upon learning

of an opportunity that the Department would

like to pursue. This form must be submitted not later than

20 business days prior to the application deadline.

Please submit this form to Sajjiah Parker, Associate Director, Office of Grants Management at

parkers@detroitmi.gov

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City Department oso-nec

Date mime

Department Contact Name Jamie Jackson

Department Contact Phone are-7754552

Department Contact Email gov
Grant Opportunity Title United Way Summer Food Support
Grant Opportunity Funding?eng United Way

Web Unit to Opportunity Information none

 

Award Amount (that Department will apply for)

513.375

 

Application Due Date

January 8. 2019

 

Duration of Grant Award

June 1 lo Augruttil. 2010

 

Anticipated Proposed nud?e_t7Arnount

513.375

 

 

Match Requirement Amount none
Source of Match (Include Appropriation
Number, Cost Center, and Object Code) NIA

 

List of programs/serviceslacthrities to be
funded and the Amount of Funding
Requested for Each

Sample:

- ABC Afterschool program: $150,000

- XYZ Youth leadership program: $100,000
- 5 diary/Ben e? ts: $95,000

- Supplies: 55, 000

Support for 3 part-lime program monitors and
one data specialist

 

Brief Statement of Priorities/Purpose for the
Application

Sample: To support expansion of promising
youth development programs in MNO
neighborhood.

To increase Rec Depl's program management
and delivery capacity for Summer Food
Service Program (SFSP)

 

Key Performance indicators to be Used to
Measure the Programs/ServiceslActlvitles
Sample:

all ofkr'ds newly enrolled in ABC and XYZ

ll who complete ABC 

95 ofirld?s from ABC who demonstrate
improved educational performance

95 from XYZ who demonstrate improved

Increase in number of meals served
Improved program monitoring

improved compliance with DOE SFSP
standards

Improved capacity for reporting to the DOE
Reduction in time to process vendor invoices

 

skills

 

 

Jig/Q),
do or



Date

