 (30/1 2?

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

 

 

- 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 9 

(Ea/star?nan/ia? 

In Memoriam

Mrs. Diana Smith

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow
homage upon the late, Mrs. Diana Smith, who made her heavenly transition on
November 5, 2018; and

A native of Hollandale, Mississippi, Diana Smith was welcomed into the world on
September 23, 1960, by her loving parents Ethel and Roosevelt Hart. She was the third of her
siblings: Willie, Lorraine, Carolyn (Neise), Margaret and Tanya. When was four, the
family relocated to Chicago; and

After graduating from South Shore High School in 1979, enrolled at Truman College.
In 1982, her son Creighton was born. Eventually, she met the love of her life, Bruce, in the
summer of 1986 while attending her cousin?s wedding. The couple maintained a long distance
relationship until be convinced her to move to Detroit. and Bruce were united in marriage
on December 14, 1987. Their daughter, Mia, was born in 1988; and

was employed at Target for many years. She enjoyed working there and made plenty of
friends along the way. was devoted to her family and the example she set, the wisdom
she imparted, made a signi?cant impact in the lives of others. She remained positive and cheerful
through dif?cult adversities, never revealing the extent of her pain and suffering; and

leaves to treasure and cherish her memory, her children Creighton Hart (Kayla) and Mia
Smith; mother Ethel Mae Hart; siblings Willie Jackson, Dorothy Hart-Perry (Oscar), Carolyn
Hart, Margaret Daniels (James) and Tanya Hart-Keith; bonus siblings Caroline and Gayle
Matthews; best friend Marcy; special friend Larry, and a host of nieces, nephews, aunts, cousins
and friends. She was preceded in death by her husband of 27 years Bruce Smith, father Roosevelt
Hart, and bonus brother Mark Matthews. Mrs. Diana Smith has been a good servant
and ensured that her impact would be forever embedded in the hearts of those she cherished for
years to come. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby extends
our deepest sympathy and joins with family and friends to celebrate the life of Mrs. 
Diana Smith. She will be greatly missed.

1% 9M

COUNCIL WSIDENT

 

 



COUNCIL MEE 

 

 

 


November 4, 2018

 

DATE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL (0 

Care/stlmomiall Cages.ollu/tlorzx
HON. MARTHA REEVES

The Honorable MARTHA REEVES, lead singer of the well?known vocal group Martha Reeves and the Vandellas, also an actress.
author and former member of the Detroit City Council, has accumulated a lifetime of accolades as a result of her contributions to music.
Motown and the lives of Detroiters. MARTHA REEVES rose to fame as the lead singer of Martha Reeves and the Vandellas and as
one of the original artists who established the renowned Motown sound. As lead singer, she helped shape the sound of popular music.
changing the landscape and paving the way for contemporary music. The group scored over a dozen hit singles. including Come and Get
These Memories. Jimmy Mack, Nowhere to Run. Heatwave, Quicksand. In My Lonely Room. and their signature song, Dancing in the
Street. MARTHA remarkable music career has allowed her to see and perform around the world. Sometimes performing up
to 30 weeks a year, MARTHA never tires of reliving the popular hits of Martha Reeves and the Vandellas; and

MARTHA ROSE REEVES is one of eleven children born to Ruby and Elijah Reeves. She was a baby when the family moved to
Detroit, Michigan. MARTHA and her siblings acquired their love of music from their parents; Elijah played guitar and Ruby liked to
sing. Her mother was her ?rst singing instructor. MARTHA sung in high school at Detroit?s Northeastern and eventually joined a
couple of singing groups, The Fascinations and The Del-Phis. Through 1960 and 196] she made ends meet working several jobs by day
and performing as a singer at night is some of Detroit?s One evening while singing at the famous ?20 Grand," MARTHA
was spotted by Motown Records Director, Mickey Stevenson, who gave her his business card and invited her to audition. She
showed up at the studio the next morning. not realizing that she had to call ?rst to schedule an audition. Stevenson put her to work
answering phones. while he took care of other business. Before long, using the clerical skills she learned in high school, MARTHA
became the studio?s secretary while singing backup vocals; and

One day, when Mary Wells couldn?t make a recording session. MARTHA stepped up to the mic and called in her groupmates, The De]-
Phis. Shortly after, with the recording 1 Have to Let Him Go. Martha and the Vandellas was born. With her brassy and gospel-reared
vocals, MARTHA REEVES helped make Martha and the Vandellas one of Motown?s leading acts. The group?s legendary television
appearances included, The Mike Douglas Show. American Bandstand. Soul Train and the Ed Sullivan Show to name a few. They were
also featured in major magazine articles including, Ebony, JET and Soul Illustrated and the music newspaper, Soul. MARTHA was also
an early contributing writer to the newspaper. In 1972. a?er Motown moved to Los Angeles, MARTHA ended her tenure with the label.
After leaving Motown and moving to Los Angeles herself, she embarked on a solo career. She took acting classes and appeared in the
movie Fairy Tales and on the television series, Quincy. ME. as well as game shows like Hollywood Squares. In 1983. MARTHA
performed solo on the famed Motown 25 television special. She also performed in a Broadway production of Ain?t Misbehavin'.
MARTHA reunited with original members of the Vandellas in 1989. both on record and on tour; and

Among her career milestones are the induction of Martha and the Vandellas into the Rock Roll Hall of Fame and the Vocal Group
Hall of Fame. MARTHA was also honored for her best-selling 1995 autobiography. Dancing in the Street. In 2004, she released her
?rst album in 24 years. Home to You. In January 2012, MARTHA held court in London at Ronnie Scott?s Jazz Club, with a sold-out six
show stand. In 2015, the group embarked on a sold-out tour of clubs and theatres in Brussels, Paris and Belgium. She was inducted into
the and Blues Hall of Fame in September 2014. and received the Sandy l-losey Lifetime Achievement Award at the Artisrs
Music Guild?s Heritage Awards in November 2015. After serving on the Detroit City Council from 2005 to 2009, MARTHA REEVES
returned to full-time performing with nearly 50 shows annually. She continues to connect with fans across the globe, performing
concerts and club dates, both solo and with the Vandellas. Her love of Detroit has kept her coming back to the City that made her!
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby presents this Testimonial Resolution to
MARTHA REEVES in recognition of her outstanding musical achievements and contributions to Detroit?s very own unique Motown

sound.
in-


27 
in 

COUNCIL EMBEH

 

 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

coon MEM 1/14 COUNCI
".4. Susan ?at?
c: 1-. I COUNCILMEMBEH
November 2, 2018

 

DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL (03

(?es/twean/mg/ (?9393/0/50me

Fisherman Earl ?Doc? Savage

35th Spiritual Anointing and 71St Birthday

WHEREAS: FISHERMAN EARL SAVAGE is the youngest of 14 children born November 6, 1947 to
the union of Solomon and Mancie Savage in Fuman, Alabama. He attended Snow Hill Institute in
Snow Hill, Alabama and is a Vietnam Veteran; and

WHEREAS: The Fisherman furthered his education to become an Air Conditioning and Heating Specialist for
Detroit Diesel, and retired October 31, 2008 after 42 years of service. He has been married 36 years to
his lovely wife, Mrs. Sandra Savage. They have two sons and ?ve grandchildren; and

WHEREAS: On April 10, 1982, Earl Savage joined The Order of the Fishermen Ministry and was baptized on
June 8, 1975 by Martha Jean Steinberg, the Spiritual Leader and Founder of The
Order of the Fishermen Ministry; and

WHEREAS: On June 26, 1982, at the Home of Love on a Sunday morning, the Holy Spirit touched this Soul and a
new dimension of commitment was brought forth. Upon this occasion Earl ?Doc? Savage was
named Fisherman-Elect of The Order of the Fisherman Ministry. He was placed on a probationary
period for one year so that the Being could be anchored in the ?Light of Life?: and

WHEREAS: On June 26, 1983 at the Home of Love, this Obedient One was named FISHERMAN by 
where she prophesied that FISHERMAN EARL SAVAGE would be recognized
and anointed as the First Fisherman of The Order of the Fishermen Ministry; accepting the
command that Jesus the Christ gave to His ?rst Disciples when He said, ?Follow Me, and I will make
you Fishers of the Souls of Men?. On Saturday, November 10, 2018, the Home of Love will
celebrate FISHERMAM EARL 35th Spiritual Anointing and 71? Birthday.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez and her colleagues on the Detroit City Council
congratulate FISHERMAN EARL SAVAGE on the occasion of his 35th Spirit Anointing
and 71't Birthday Anniversary. May God continue to bless his ministry and his life for many more

years.

  
 

 

?2

 

 

 

 

 

 


November 115, 2018
DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

??tri/reorw?? Aswan?
Pastor, Henry Hall, Jr.

pastoral Anniversaty"

WHEREAS: Pastor Henry Hall, Jr. is the second preacher of ?ve children born to Deacon Henry Hall, Sr. (Deceased) and Mrs. Willie Lee Hall. He is a native
Detroiter. He received his formal education in the Detroit Public School System and graduated ?'om Henry Ford High School. Accepting the clarion call of the
Master, Pastor Hall studied to show himself approved unto God and alter that, obtained his BA in Religion and Philosophy ?'om Bishop College, Dallas, TX. He
pursued ?irther studies at Dallas Baptist College and Dallas Theological Seminary. Proverbs 18:16 says: man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before
great men." God?s Word is true, and He has allowed Pastor Hall to conduct numerous evangelistic revivals, seminars, and workshops for preachers and pastors
throughout the nation. Additionally, he participated in the International Congress for World-Evangelism, Lueeme, Switzerland, Billy Graham School of Education

and Campus Cnisade Ministries, just to name a few, AND

 

WHEREAS: Pastor Henry Hall, Jr?s accomplishments during his 38+ years in the ministry have been numerous and blessed by God! Pastor Hall served as

Interim Pastor of the Second Chapel Baptist Church, Garland, TX. Pastor Hall also served as the Assistant Pastor of the New Mt. Moriah Baptist Church, Highland
Park, MI, under the leadership of the late Pastor Jerome Kirby. Pastor Hall also served as Interim Pastor of the Second Corinthian Baptist Church, Detroit, MI,
ultimately becoming its Pastor in 1997. Following the direction of the Holy Spirit, Pastor Hall renamed the church to Cedar Christian Church (?Cedar?) in 2007,

AND

WHEREAS: Pastor Henry Hall, Jr. is divinely anointed and appointed. He is a shepherd after God?s own heart. He is well known for his uncompromising
integrity and dynamic teaching and preaching ability, AND

WHEREAS: Pastor Henry Hall, Jr. shares his love through fellowship with others and demonstrates his calling to discipleship with a deep commitment to
carry Christ to an unsaved society and by boldly delivering the unadulterated truth, in season and out of season, without fainting, with clarity, and with authority,

AND

WHEREAS: Pastor Henry Hall, Jr. is sel?ess and steadfast in his unreserved efforts to encourage and edify not only the Body of Believers, but to improve
the world, one community at a time, both physically and spiritually, AND

WHEREAS: Pastor Henry Hall, Jr. has made tremendous strides in ministry. With steps ordered by God and athankful heart, he continues to do so. He is
well respected among his contemporaries and the congregation he has been given charge over. This year he celebrates 21 years in the pastorate--a demonstration of
commitment and his personal testimony to the Master. Under the direction and leadership of Pastor Hall, Cedar?s accomplishments have been great, and Cedar
continues to ?ourish and ful?ll the mandate of Christ. A few of Cedar?s accomplishments include, but are not limited to the: purchasing of a new edi?ce (1221)
East Lantz Street, Detroit, Mi.) in 2007; burning of the church mortgage in 2010; establishing the Cedar School of Ministry in 2012; renovating the dining hall in
the lower level of the church; Installing chairli? systems to the main sanctuary, and to the lower level of the church; installing a modular air conditioning system;
installing an entire new roo?ng system. Launching Cedar Outreach, a 50103 Corporation which provides: food and on special holidays) to individuals
and families in the Northeast corridor of Detroit in partnership with Forgotten Harvest;a Summer lunch program during school break to individuals and families in
the Northeast corridor of Detroit in partnership with Forgotten Harvest; a Summer outreach ?Celebrating the Community? picnic for individuals and families in the
Northeast corridor of Detroit; backpacks and school supplies each school year to children in the Northeast corridor of Detroit; clothing (including winter coats, hats,
and gloves) to individuals in the Northeast corridor of Detroit and to Nolan School; hope and help (?Lights on Lantz on Christmas Eve for selected families in the

Northeast corridor of Detroit by sharing new toys and other gifts, AND

WHEREAS: Pastor Henry Hall, Jr. is a gifted yet humble servant who continues to establish himself as one of the most in?uential leaders of our time, AND
WHEREAS: Pastor Henry Hall, Jr. has obtained ?favor of the Lord? in the ?nding of his wife, Sharee?. They are the proud parents of two daughters, Harmony
Joi and Harlyn Jade. NOW, THEREFORE LET IT BE

RESOLVED: That Council Member Roy McCalister and the entire Detroit City Council, joins with the Cedar Christian Church, congregation in
celebrating the 38'h Pastoral Anniversary of Pastor, Henry Hall, Jr. May God continue to bless you with many more years of dedicated years of service.

1 Thessalonians 5:12-13 says: ?And now, friends, we ask you to honor those leaders, who work so hard for you, who have been given the responsibility of urging
and guiding you along in your obedience. Overwhelm them with appreciation and love. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER I
COUNCIL MEMBER
November] 8: 2018 at r'tt?JH are: 33.31:: in:

 

 

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL (0 S.


Henrietta Jefferies

WHEREAS, Mrs. Henrietta Jefferies was born on September 4, 1928 at Herman Kiefer Hospital in Detroit,
Michigan to the marriage of her parents, Henry and Acola Perry. Education was a very important
aspect of Mrs. Jefferies life, as she attended Trowbridge Elementary School, Gar?eld Middle
School and Northeastern High School; AND

WHEREAS, Throughout her life. Mrs. Jefferies has also been very steadfast in her religion, as she joined the
Tried Stone Baptist Church in February of 1965 under Pastor Marion B. Terrell. Following Pastor
Terrell?s retirement, Mrs. Jefferies remained at Tried Stone Baptist church under new leadership,
Pastor Richard .P. Wison. After Tried Stone Baptist Church dissolved its membership, Mrs. Jefferies
joined the New Bethlehem Baptist Church in 2016 under Pastor Love Joy Johnson AND

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jefferies love for music and especially gospel music de?nitely showed over the years. She
sang with the Inspirational Choir at Tried Stone Baptist Church since 1965. Because of Mrs.
efferies God-given talent, over the years and still to this day, Mrs. Jefferies has been called upon to
sing at funerals and other church related functions. While still at Tried Stone Baptist Church, Mrs.
Jeffries also worked as a unit coordinator and in the Feed the Hungry Ministry; AND

WHEREAS, Serving others is not just a value of Mrs. Jefferies?. Her husband, Fred Jefferies, Jr. who is now
deceased, joined the army in 1941 and served for ?ve years until he was honorably discharged.
Together Mr. and Mrs. Jefferies shared their daughter, Ilene Arcola Jeffries Tally; AND

WHEREAS, Mrs. Jefferies? work ethic also goes beyond the church and her community. She worked for Ford
Motor Company up until 1985 when she retired. As an active voter, Mrs. Jefferies? became a poll
worker at the election commission for the City of Detroit following her retirement and stills serves
each election to this day. Mrs. efferies, ?rmly believes in the importance of voting and using your
voice to make a difference. As a poll worker, she wants to continue to be an example for others and
encourage them to use their right to vote; She has exhibited this belief of serving others and her
community throughout her life; NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That on this day, November 13, 2018, Councilman James E. Tate, Jr., and the entire Detroit City
Council, hereby present this testimonial resolution as an expression of gratitude and esteem, on
behalf of the residents of the City of Detroit, to Mrs. Henrietta Jefferies in recognition of her 90th
birthday on September 2018.



can a? PHESIENT

  

 


1. IL SIDENT i?u?M NCILMEM ?a

co! .- 
44.1"! a 

CO MEM- 

 

 

 

 




COU CIL MEMBER i

 

DATE

