T221 .6 x7: (,1gi

Wax/x9

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING 5

AND PROCUREMENT

January 16, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

3029347 100% City Funding To Provide Residential Demolition at 7688 Stout,
and 8240 St. Marys. Contractor: Leadhead Construction Location:
41617 Cummings Lane, Novi, MI 48337 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through November 26, 2019 Total Contract Amount:
$30,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3029347 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated January 16, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

36

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

January 16, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s): 3?

6000898 100% Street Funding AMEND 1? To Provide Additional Funds for the
Reconstruction of Woodbridge Street. Contractor: Major Cement Co. 
Location: 15347 Dale, Detroit, MI 48223 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through December 31, 2019 Contract Increase:
$28,847.41 Total Contract Amount: $1,302,921.32. DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC WORKS

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000898 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated January 16, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

37

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

January 16, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

6001859 100% Revenue Student Transit Agreement To Provide Qualifying
Students Access to Transportation through City Operated Bus
Transit Services. Contractor: Location: 3011 W. Grand Blvd.,
Detroit, MI 48202 Contract Period: 2018 2019 Academic Year and
Continuing for a Period of 2 years. Total Revenue Amount:
$1,855,000.00. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001859 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated January 16, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 
2 WOODWARD Ave, FOURTH FLOOR
or DFTROIT DETROIT, 48226
.

3 I3) 224?0484 - I
AND ENVIRONML-NTAL DLPARIMLNI 
BUILDINGM MI I 

   

Date: January 10, 20l9

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 17216 Birwood
NAME: Dorice Peterson
Demolition Ordered: July 13, 2015

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department submits the lollowing information:

A special inspection conducted on January 9, 20i9 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use ol'tlre property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this
property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

 

l. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business davs from the date ofthe City Council
decision.
2. HSE ED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty?five (45) calendar days front the date ofthe rehabilitation

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter. the owner must submit to RSI-ZED
detailed inspection reports. with photos showing evidence ofthe work completed, every forte-??ve (451 calendar
for the duration ol?the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminentiy Iraanrdnus conditions immediately corrected, be maintained. and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (or months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department: i
0 Certificate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result ofa Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the tlci'en?al period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions ol?thc dollar-u]
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantral progress toward rchabil itarion. ?the building becomes open to ire-.pngs or 
ol?the deferral are not followed, the deferral may he rescinded by the City Council .It any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. in addition, pursuant to die Property Maintenance Code we will issue .r Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the oilice of the City Clerk.

  

liespe lly 

  

David Bell
Director

DB 

cc: Dor'iee Peterson. 343 Newport, Detroit, Mi 48215
Dorice Peterson. Box 2i 3082, Detroit, MI 48223



I



   

I:

I




COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 . TTY27II

WW I .GOV

Date: January IO, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 664 Alger
NAME: FDR Investments LLC
Demolition Ordered: March 30, 2015

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on November 6, 20] 8 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this
property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

I. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within t3; (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.
2. BSE ED will schedule a Progress inspection within forty??ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BS 
detailed Inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
da 5, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all Imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation Is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required forgl_l_ rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear ofovergrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end ofthe deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions Ofii'lt? defer: 
have been satisfied and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. Ifthc building becomes Open to trespass or il'conditions
ofthe deferral are not followed, the defen'al may he rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition vi ithmn
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the ofthe City Clerk.

   

Respec- Ty submitted,

David Bell
Director



cc. FDR Investments LLC. 2000 Town Center, FL, South?cld, MI 48075
Melvin Murray, 3228 Canyon TR. Milford, Ml 48380

15 JFIN E'El'l'ii F-I-IBISE

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CiiNi?i-JR
2 WOODWARD AVE, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY Oi? MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS. ENGINEERING AND Diil?AR?lMiiNi (313) 224-0484 . TTYz7lt

I MLGOV

   

Date: January 3, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: [2900 Mack
NAME: DeLiscious CO, LLC
Demolition Ordered: April 9, 2013

in response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on December I3, 2018 revealed that the buiiding is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The

owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner's use and UCQUpancy. This is the deferral request for
this property. 

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following

 

 

conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within @110) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress inspection within forty-five (45) calendar does from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports. with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been matte during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all inuninently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation Work is to he completed within six at) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

I Certificate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certi?cate of Approval as a result ofa Housing inspection
. Certi?cate of Compliance, required for all rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSE ED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress ofthc rehabilitation.

At the. end t-i'the deferral perI-nl. the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to Widener: 

 I.tt't' been anti-died and that there has been progress toward It'tbc building upon to Ind-lions
ul'tllc dciL-rmi litlinmrd. the ticiermi tilii?.? be rescinded by the 'Ity (Council .-il till], liliiCaii'itJ we may proceed with dcmniitnm without
[in titer lilliiCL', in pIIr-.u.utt It. the Property (?mic or: will law?tlcu. iiligbt rotation Notice

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the otiice of the City Clerk.

  
  

nliy submitted,

  

:Ivit BL 
Director



cc: DeLiscious LLC, 595i Manistiquc, Detroit, Mi 43224
Licious Williams

CLERK 15 MN 2013 

3 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CEN 
2 WOODWARD AVE., FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 

WW MLGOV

   

Date: January 8, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 20155 Mendota
NAME: Joevarka Tyus
Demolition Ordered: November 21, 2017

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on November! 2018 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the deferral request for this
property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

I. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within gm business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within fortv-five (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every for_t1-five (45) calendar
$313, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certificate of Acceptance related to building permits
Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
Certificate of Compliance, required for a_H rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end ofthc deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions oi'the deter mi
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. lfthe building becomes open to trespass or it?cnmtim ms
ofthe deferral are not followed, the defen'al may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition v. EIlmut
further notice. in addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) dci'en?als must be made by petition to City Council through the office of' the City Clerk.

   

Respe' submitted.

David Bell
Director

l)B:bkd
cc: Joevarka 'l?yus, 9629 Artesian. Detroit. MI 48228

l: CLERK 15 EEli'Ei 

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL I ER
2 WOODWARD Ave, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DETROI DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL. (313) 224-0484 - TTY27H
MLGOV

Date: January 9. 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 12826 Freeland
NAME: Carl Yowome Catherine Young
Demolition Ordered: September 17, 2018

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following infonnation:

A special inspection conducted on December 21, 20l8 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The
owner has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use ol'the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This Is the lat deferral request for
this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within 3300) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSE ED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-five (45) calendar days from the date ofthe rehabilitation

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEE 
detailed inspection reperts, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five [45) calendar
(Lays, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminentiy hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six to) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one ofthe following from this department:

a Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certificate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

:?it the end ui'the deferral period. the owner must contact this department In arrangean inspection to evidence that conditions ni'lhc dctitIai
have heen satis?ed and that there has been sultstantial progress toward relmhilitatiun. ?the building open to trespass ur 
Hi the niel'erral are not followed. the deferral may he by the ('in 'IatncII at any time and we proceed with demolition a hint. .I
notice. in pursuant to the Property h-laintcnuncc (?ndc we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce ofth City Clerk.

 

David Bell
Director



cc: Carl Young. 1472l SW 159'? Si. Miami, FL 33137
Yowomc Catherine Young, i472! SW I59I11 ST. Miami. FL 33 87

CLERK 15 .iFli'l EDT-J ES

 I

  

   

5; COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 . 

MLGOV

Date: January Ii, 20l9

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 6891 Rutiand
NAME: Rassam Hassan
Demolition Ordered: October 19, 2015

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BS EED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on January 10, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the l" deferral request for this
property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-five (45) calendar days from the date ofthe rehabilitation

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed Inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all lmminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work Is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

- Certificate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_l! rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certificate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end ofthe deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions oflhe deferral
have been satisfied and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or ifcoridil Luis
ofthe deferral are not followed. the deferral maybe rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition 
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office ofthe City Clerk.

Milli).r rallnnilted

David Bell
Director



cc: Rassam llassan,3934 Oliver ST, llamlramck, MI 4821 

CLERK 'lE Jflt-l 21119 PH TEE-

g1: COLEMAN A. YOUNG CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE., FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (3I3) 224-0484 - 


   

Date: January 1 l, 20l9

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 5933 Kensington
NAME: Erin Murphy
Demolition Ordered: May 21, 2013

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following infonnation:

A special inspection conducted on January I 0, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. Theowner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the l" deferral request for this

 

 

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te__n_ (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule 11 Progress inspection within fortv-?ve (45) calendar data from the date ofthe rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSE ED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five (45) calendar
days, for the duration ofthe rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

I Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certificate of Approval as a result ofa Housing inspection
a Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress ofthe rehabilitation.

At the end ofthe deferral period, the owner must contact this department to an?ange an inspection to evidence that conditions ofthe .lcfv?I oil
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. lfthe building becomes open to trespass or ifcraniit was
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City (?ouncil at any time and we may proceed with demolition u. about
further notice. in addition, pursuant to the PropcIty Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to (?in Council through the oliice of the City Clerk.

submitted,

     

David Bell
Director

l)B:hkd

cc iirin Murphy, 2434 Actor ST, Berkeley, CA 94702
Steven F. Landcau JR, 0 Box 426, Lapccr. MI 18446

CITY CLERK. 1E- E?Eii'Ei FHEIEE

 

COUNCIL MEMBER Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-4248

   

2w dA ,s It 1340 313-224-1737
CITYOF JANEE AYERS 
DETROIT '5
MEMORANDUM
TO: Sue F. McCormick, Chief Executive Of?cer

Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA)

VIA: Scott Benson, Chair
Public Health and Safety Standing Committee

FROM: anee? Ayers, Vice Chair
Public Health and Safety Standing Committee

DATE: January 15, 2019

RE: Request for investigation into water main break

 

I would like to request an independent investigation by a panel of engineers not contracted with
GLWA or the City of Detroit into how and why the large water main break in the Downtown
area occurred. Please report the findings via email or presentation to the Detroit City Council in
its entirety.

Thank you for your time and effort,

anee? Ayers
Detroit City Council

cc: Colleagues
City Clerk

Mode? ill-~lelr, 9m 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER AT-LARGE Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Phone 313-224-4248
2 Woodward Avenue. Suite 1340 Fax 313-224-1787

cm, JAN EE AYE RS Detroit, Michigan 48226 
DETROIT
MEMORANDUM
TO: Sue F. McCormick, Chief Executive Of?cer

 

Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA)

VIA: anee Ayers, Chair
Budget Audit and Finance Standing Committee

FROM: Janee? Ayers, Chair
Budget Audit and Finance Standing Committee

DATE: January 15, 2019
RE: GLWA Capital Improvement Plan

 

1. Please provide specific details on capital improvement plan for 2019 and
identify the linear improvements planned in the City of Detroit including specific streets
and pipes (beyond water treatment plants) that will be worked on.

2. How does this plan of work line up with the dollars provided by the City of Detroit to


3. What percentage of the dollars provided by the City of Detroit to GLWA is spent on
projects that are Detroit specific?

Thank you for your time and effort,

anee? Ayers
Detroit City Council

cc: Colleagues
City Clerk

tam rim a?

 

:City of Detroit

COUNCILMAN SCOTT R. BENSON

MEMORANDUM
TO: Ron Brundidge, Department of Public Works
Chief James Craig, Chief of Police
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
Hon. Sonya Mays, Board Member
CDR Constance Slappey
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison
VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 16 Jan 2019
RE: COMPLAINTS FROM CITIZENS RE: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS

AND SPEEDING ON OS CAMPAU AT DAVISON ELEMENTARY

This of?ce has received complaints about accidents, speeding violations and unsafe
traf?c conditions on 05 Campau at Davison Elementary. The most recent report is of a
grandmother being hit by a car on 03 Campau after dropping her grandchildren off at
school and walking home. Please pull traf?c accident data for this area and identify if
there needs to be any modi?cation to the area?s traf?c safety equipment to prevent future
accidents. Additionally, the parents have asked for an illuminated crosswalk at os
Campau and Lawley, and an illuminated speed monitor sign in front of the school.

Please report back on your ?nding by 18 February 2019. Please reach out to my of?ce at
313-224-1198 with any questions.

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave.. Suite 1340 - Detroit. Michigan 48226

(313) 224-1 198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

 

:City of Detroit

COUNCILMAN scorr BENSON 

 

MEMORANDUM
TO: Gary Brown, Director, DWSD
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3
CC: Hon. Adam Hollier, State Senator

Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel City of Detroit
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 16 Jan 2019
RE: REQUEST TO REVIEW STATE WATER

RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD DRAFT RPT. DTD 3 JAN 2019
FOR IMPLEMENTATION OFA STA 
INCOME WA ER RA TE ASSISTANCE 

While the City of Detroit has several programs to address access to water for low income
residents, the need continues to outpace the availability of resources from DWSD and the
Great Lakes Water Authority. Sensing the magnitude of the water affordability problem
the California state legislature has taken on this issue because the cost to provide
subsidized water cannot be supported by their local water systems.

Please review the report, the link is located below, and identify any best practices that can
be imported to the State of Michigan. At this time the path to funding a water
affordability solution may run through the state vs. the municipalities. My request is that
LPD and DWSD work together to provide a brief report with recommendations on how
we can engage the State of Michigan to help in this ?ght. With the number of households
in the City of Detroit that are water insecure it is extremely important that we identify a
sustainable method to ensure all of Detroit?s residents, regardless of income, have access
to water.


ocs/2019/draft_report_ab401 .pdf

Please reach out to my of?ce at 313-224-1198 with any questions.

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave.. Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

 

QEitp of Ellaetruit 
CITY COUNCIL
RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICTS

MEMORANDUM

 

T0: Ron Brundidge, Director, Department of Public Works

THRU: Council Member Scott Benson, Chair, Public Health and Safety Committee
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez {in?ll
DATE: January 8th, 2019 l/

RE: Flooding at Henderson and Renville

 

 

 

Our office first inquired about this flooding issue at 5650 Renville in September of 2018. Please
advise whether the survey has been conducted and what course of action has been planned to
eliminate the ponding problem.

Thank you. If you have any questions, please contact my office at 313-224-2450.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison
Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

 

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center {Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


ditty of Eetrnit ?0

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER

 

DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM
is
TO: David Bell, Director, BSEED
Mayor?s Of?ce of Sustainability

THRU: Council Member Brenda Jones, Council President
FROM: Council Member Raquel Casta?eda-Lopez

r. 
DATE: January 15, 2019 e- 

RE: Request for Report: Rental Property Ordinance Grant

 

The Office of Sustainability and Building, Safety, Engineering and Environmental Department
received a grant for $100,000 from the Kresge foundation to aid in understanding the impacts of the
rental property ordinance and implications of other policies in the Detroit housing market. The City
is required to complete two reports during the life ofthe grant (June 28, 2018 and January 31,
2019), with information about the progress of the work, as well as information regarding resident
engagement and coordination among Departments.

Please ensure that both the interim and final report are submitted to Council for review.

Please do not hesitate to contact my office if you have any questions. Thank you.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison
City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


(72> QEity of ZBetroit 5"

CITY COUNCIL

f/r?

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

MEMORANDUM

TO: Gary Brown, Director
Detroit Water and Sewage Department

Sue McCormick, CEO
Great Lake Water Authority

David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Council President Brenda Jones E) 
DATE: January 15, 2019

RE: Report Request

 

The Detroit News recently released an article entitled "Detroit Could Be Losing
Out On Millions Under ?Flawed? Water System Lease.? Please provide a report
evaluating the effectiveness of the current Detroit Water and Sewage
Department lease with the Great Lakes Water Authority.

Coleman A. Young Mumupal Center 2 shenue Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 4822.6
(313) 224-1345 Fax (313) 3344095

Munro On ?51:1

Thanks for supporting local journalism .

$2.99 I week

SUBSCRIBE NOW

GPS-
BOUN
EVERGREENI7)

Report: Detroit could be losing out on million:
'flawed' water system lease

Breana Noble and Christine Ferretti, The Detroit News Published 10:00 am. ET Jan. 14, 2019 Updated 6:24 p.m. ET Jan. 14, 2019

 

 

Workers from Lakeshore Global Corporation work on a water main break at Larned and St. Maron Place in Detroit Sunday morning

Detroit new report on Detroit's water system contends the city could be losing out on millions of dollars under a "fla\
regional authority forged in secret during Detroit's landmark bankruptcy.

The report, authored by researchers from the Haas Institute for a Fair and Inclusive Society at the University of Californi
of the city's lease agreements tied to the creation of the Great Lakes Water Authority, which operates the system.

The 100-page report, which was funded by $42,000 from the Troy-based Kresge Foundation, outlines the health, social
water shutoffs in Detroit. It also lists seven broad actions that the researchers recommend should be taken to address 

system's governance in Metro Detroit.

The-institute and Detroit's Metropolitan Organizing Strategy Enabling Strength, a faith?based advocacy organization, car
in partnership with a dozen other local groups based on concerns over water affordability and infrastructure dating back
organizers said.

At the center of water inequity in Metro Detroit, the researchers said, is the lack of a proper appraisal of the water syster
being stood up as a component of the city?s Chapter 9 ?ling.

The report, released Monday, questions whether the $50 million annually the authority pays the city to run its water systi
the city-owned asset. The majority of negotiations over the deal were conducted in mediation.

Since the deal was not a sale, it did not require a comprehensive assessment of the asset?s value, the report notes.

The circumstances of the transaction reached in the midst of a municipal bankruptcy and under emergency managen
that would not have occurred under normal circumstances and is, correspondingly, blatantly inequitable."

A challenge, however, both when the leasing agreement was made and now, is a lack of comparable deals and details 

But based on the 2017 sale of an $880 million system in Connecticut that serves six times fewer people than the Great 1
researchers estimated the Detroit system has more than $5 billion in equity. That would translate to a leasing rate of $21
what the city receives from the authority now, they said.

"The economic value would help to achieve a respectful lease payment to the city of Detroit that represents the value of
the region," said Joseph Recchie, a report author and founder of Praxis Partners, a Columbus, Ohio-based company the
objectives.

Michelle Zdrodowski, a spokeswoman for GLWA, said negotiations over the formation of the authority were "extremely 
control and ownership, while addressing the deferred needs of the system."

The authors of the report, she said, put it together "without any known effort" to contact the authority to gain an understa
parameters of its operation.

In addition to the lease, she said, the authority assumed billions in debt obligations across the water and sewer systems
the authority to set up an assistance program and to dedicate a half-percent of its total revenues annually toward it.

Further, the market value for many transactions, cited as ?comparable" in the report, are predicated on significant rate in
as the report?s authors say, "none of these points definitely shows that the GLWA lease payment is artificially low," Zdroc

Detroit Water and Sewerage Department Director Gary Brown said the city is benefiting from the lease deal.

The department, he said, has leveraged the lease payments to fund a five-year, $500 million capital improvement projec
infrastructure.

"It funds replacing water mains and relining sewer mains at the rate of 2 percent per year, which is the national water uti
Brown, adding that last year the department replaced 25 miles of water main and relined 22 miles of sewer pipe.

 and contractors are hiring hundreds of Detroiters over the next few years to go to work rehabilitating our aging 
he said.

The release of the report coincides with ongoing repairs of a water main break over the weekend that?s prompted a boil
Detroit as the city welcomes automotive industry executives for the North American International Auto Show.

"This is a beautiful city filled with a resourceful population and they are coming back," Recchie said at a Monday news 0
Methodist Church on Woodward. "But if you bring international executives making site decisions, contracts they have
as vibrant."

"The worst thing they can do is see a failed infrastructure because in the back of their mind is 'would my plant be shut d<
shut down and be subject to liquidated damages because I can't deliver basic infrastructure.?

Dr. John Powell of the Haas Institute said it was ironic that the report came out during the boil advisory.

?This crisis is going to get worse," Powell said at a Monday news conference at Metropolitan United Methodist Church 0
system is under tremendous stress.?

Organizers said copies of the report have been sent to the offices of Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan and Wayne County Ex:
hope to arrange meetings to discuss the findings.

James Martinez, a spokesman for Evans, confirmed Monday that the county received the report and "is open to discuss
review."

The report also renews an ongoing call for a moratorium on water shutoffs in the city and overhaul of payment policies 5
contend is evidenced by some 100,000 water shutoffs in Detroit since 2014.

It advocates for an income-based rate structure and warns of "wide-ranging health consequences" of water deprivation.
adds, is a "violation of basic human rights."

"lnequity is a problem across the country," said Wendy Ake, an author of the report and director of the Just Public Finan:
"As systems built a century ago were patched together and as decisions for updating and expanding them were made, 
discrimination."

Other pieces of the agreement between the authority and Detroit also are "flawed," the report's authors say.

DWSD, in response to the report, issued a statement saying it "delivers clean, safe drinking water to our customers."

As a public utility, the department noted, it relies on rate-payers to fund the cost of service and to maintain the water anc
empowers municipal water utilities to set rates, but basing them on income "is currently illegal in this state due to the He
Lansing," DWSD said.

"Therefore, an income-based water rate is not legally-defensible," the statement reads. "In Detroit, an income-based rat:
service to the working poor."

Researchers, however, argued an income?based affordability plan funded by meter fees does not require the implement
require a voter approval.

The report notes that the lease is a "common-to-all" cost across the authority, with Detroit contributing $13.6 million to th
the city?s affordability problems, the researchers said, because the city already owns the asset and shouldn't pay a lease

Researchers argue the current system has resulted in high, unmetered drainage charges in the city, which has hurt chUI

"Congregations have maintained a social fabric as our city has gone through its turbulent periods," said Ponsella Hardai
and executive director of MOSES. "This is a big heavy burden on them that could force some to close."

Because Detroit holds a unique role in the ownership of the system, the researchers argue it does not have proper repre
person board.

Detroit has two board positions, while Macomb, Oakland and Wayne counties each have a single representative. A gove
from Flint joined the board this year.

A supermajority five of six votes is needed to approve influential actions, which moderates the city?s influence, the

The secret negotiations to establish and shape the regional water authority in 2014-15, conducted under a federal gag 
Detroit and its suburban neighbors 
Officials from Macomb and Oakland counties questioned the accuracy of financial figures provided by Detroit (istoryineu
during the talks.

Macomb County Executive Mark Hackel said Monday that he disagreed from the beginning with the $50 million lease. 
higher, he said, is an "unacceptable thought."

think it's heavily in Detroit's favor to begin with," Hackel said. "Off the top of our rates, we're paying $50 million a year
Detroit's system to fix Detroit's infrastructure at a cost to rate payers that don't live in the city of Detroit."

Bill Mullan, a spokesman for Oakland County Executive L. Brooks Patterson, declined to comment on the water report.

To address the water inequity most immediately, the researchers said, a moratorium should be put in place to end all res
gained national attention in 2014 when about 33,000 homes lost water access for unpaid bills.

The shutoffs have continued, though they have slowed in recent years. The researchers said unlike for electrical shutoff
clear, navigable process by which users can appeal water shutoff decisions.

They also recommended an investigation into a water affordability plan and the suggested use of the income-based rate
Colton in 2005. The Water Affordability Program, which City Council approved in 2006 but was never implemented, calls
2?3 percent of household income.

That initiative, the researchers said, could be bolstered by lowered or eliminated late fees, water repayment programs a
programs to avoid water shutoffs. Actions to preserve water access, quality and oversight also could be supported by st:
funding. they said.

?People want to pay their bills, and they want to have access to water," the researchers wrote, "and a true affordability 

The service agreement between the authority and Detroit, however, would make this difficult. It caps the amount rates 0:
annually, which the researchers said may need to be abandoned.

in its first three years of operation, the authority said it had an average annual increase of 2 percent for the water systen
system.

more equitable cost structure would result in extremely modest increases (for suburban communities)," Recchie said.
costs. If you place it on a few people, it makes it very difficult."

DWSD said Monday there's a path for every customer to avoid interruption in water service.

Since March 2016, DWSD noted, more than 10,000 households have benefited from the payment and arrearage assists
Residential Assistance Program.

Customers also are enrolled in the 10/30/50 Payment Plan, which spreads past due balances over 6-24 months.ln addil
households have benefited from minor home plumbing repairs through WRAP and toilet replacement, which has reduce
23 percent.

agrees more can be done to support water affordability and continually seeks additional funding for customer as
donations and grants," the statement said.

bnoble@detroitnews.com

Read or Share this story: 
lease/2548568002/

5'2

QEitp of Eetrm?t
Cirr?cou thiL

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

MEMORANDUM
TO: Ioneigh Khaldun, Director
Detroit Health Department
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones 6 9/
DATE: January 15, 2019
RE: Bed Bug Mitigation Noti?cation

 

Please provide responses to the following within one week:

1. What methods are or will be used to reach out to landlords to notify them
about the requirements to inspect, mitigate, and inform tenants per the
Bed Bug Ordinance?

2. What is the anticipated cost of developing mailers to distribute to

landlords in Detroit to notify them of the requirements to inspect,

mitigate, and inform tenants per the Bed Bug Ordinance prior to
finalizing rental agreements as well as during the term of their rental
agreement?

What is the Health Department's current marketing budget?

How much money is currently left in the Department?s budget for

marketing?

5. What are the Department?s plans to utilize those dollars?

+90

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue - Suite 1340 Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313} 124-4245 Fax (313) 224-4095

I 

 9? 

QEity of ?etruit
CITY 53

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

 

MEMORANDUM

TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit

FROM: Council President Brenda Jones {6

DATE: January 15, 2019

RE: Dangerous Animals Amendment

 

Please work with my office to draft an ordinance developing metrics for the
determination of dangerous animals.

?l bf 167? 

Coleman A. Young Municipal L'L-nn-r 2 ?L?L'mulwurd - mm- 13-1-0 [la-trot. Mia.?lilg.1n 4?th
(313) 324-1345 Fax (313) 334-4095

.-.
..


 

MEMORANDUM
TO: Scott Benson, Chairperson
Public Health and Safety Standing Committee
FROM: Roy McCalister, Jr., Member
Public Health and Safety Standing Committee
DATE: January 14, 2019
Wayne County Circuit Court?s Decision Reference City of D?vfroii Zoning

Ordinance, Section 61-4-72
Corporate Council Lawrence Garcia;

My of?ce has received several communications concerning the Wayne County
Circuit Court?s decision referencing City of Detroit Zoning Ordinance, under Section 61-
4?72.

It is therefore the request of my of?ce that you provide a comprehensive
explanation of this decision; as well as provide answers/explanations to the following:

(1) Please provide an update and opinion of this decision.

(2) How does this decision affect the appeals process for communities and
organizations protesting Medical Marijuana Dispensaries authorized within their
area and which will subsequently impact the area?

(3) Why are the ?6 Suggested Questions,? only applicable to the communities and
organizations being impacted; and not the Medical Marijuana Dispensary
Businesses?

The decision appears to be a bias in favor of Medical Marijuana Dispensaries; an
unconstitutionality of inequality towards communities.

(4) Do the ?6 Suggested Questions,? fall under the Board of Zoning Standards?

(5) How does October 2018 Case Decision affect State Delegation to local
municipalities?

(6) How does this decision affect the earlier implementation of location distance in
reference to churches, schools, other dispensaries and similar establishments; and
how does this decision affect and/or impact the inspection decisions of Building
Safety Engineering and Environment Department 

(7) Has the City Law Department questioned this decision?

(8) Does the City Law Department plan to appeal this decision? If no, why not?

(9) How does this decision affect current appeals? Will appeals entered prior to the
Wayne County Circuit Court?s decision be allowed to by-pass this decision
process, or must they also comply with this decision? Will the City Law
Department allow appeals entered prior to this decision to be grandfathered?

How is ?special damages? being de?ned, what quali?es as a special damage?
How is ?harm? being de?ned, what quali?es as a harm?

Who developed these questions, have they been vetted by the law department to assure
that they comply with state law?

What type of bene?t do the questions have to ?ghting or opposing deleterious uses in our
community?

Is there another way to identify or to meet the aggrieved person standard? What is the
law department?s suggestion to meet the aggrieved person standard?

Why is the burden of proof on the community, particularly considering cases where the
initial request is for a variance?

The 6 ?Suggested Questions? seem unfair in that they impose a speculative requirement
to demonstrate future impact, please expound on this component.

In addition:

(1) What is the City of Detroit?s provisions for tracking taxable information in
reference to Medical Marijuana Dispensary income, since collected dollars cannot
be deposited in Federal Banks?

(2) In a recent NEWS article, ?60 Michigan Cities have opted out of Recreational
Marijuana Sales;? Detroit was not one of the listed 60; therefore, I am requesting
the Law Department?s opinion on Detroit?s option of opting; what are the
advantages and disadvantages of Detroit opting in and/or out; and what are the
effects of either? How would opting out effect the legal standing for the City Law
Department and the City of Detroit?

Sincerely,

Roy McCalister, Jr.
Detroit City Council

 

(titty of ZIBetrm't

 

 

CITY COUNCIL h)
337;
MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM MARY SHEFFIELD
DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

  

Ron Brundidge
Director, Department of Public Works
THRU: Neighborhood Community Services (N CS)
FROM: Council President Pro Tem Mary Shef?eld
Chair, Neighborhood Community Services Stand1n_ ornmittee
DATE: January 16, 2019
RE: Boston Edison Alley between 35 Longfellow 53 Longfellow

 

Issue Smopsis;

My of?ce has received several inquiries (phone and e?mail) regarding the condition of
the alley surface between 35 Longfellow and 53 Longfellow. Residents have provided
my of?ce with a time-line describing their continued efforts to address the poor alley

conditions, which serves as their property ingress and egress.

Request:

Please provide our of?ce with an update and remediation plan on this matter.
Additionally, please detail your department?s responsibility related to alley surface

repairs.

Should you have any questions please, contact my of?ce.

CC: Honorable Colleagues
CC: Honorable City Clerk, Janice Winfrey

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


