Alton James
Chairperson
Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

City of Detroit
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cc-cpc@detroitmi.gov

Brenda Goss-Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis
David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
A public hearing will be held by the City Planning Commission in the Committee of the Whole
Room, 13th floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, on
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 2018 AT 5:15 PM
to consider a text amendment to the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 61, of the 1984 Detroit
City Code for proposed modifications that will:


Require areas of new development and/or redevelopment to manage stormwater to the
performance standards set forth by the Detroit Water and Sewage Department.



Review and approve Stormwater Management Plans, developed as part of the site plan
review process, to ensure compliance with the performance standards.

The proposed amendments are being presented by the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department
for the department’s initiative to develop a Post-Construction Stormwater Management
Ordinance (PCSWMO) to meet the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit obligation to develop stormwater control requirements for areas of new development
and/or redevelopment.
This proposed text amendment is being considered by the City Planning Commission in
accordance with the provisions of Article III, Division 2 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.
Zoning Ordinance text amendments require the approval of the City Council after a public
hearing and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. You
may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this office prior to the hearing, 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are
affected by this proposal may not have been notified, it is suggested that you kindly inform your
neighbors so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.
An interpreter for hearing-impaired residents may be present, if requested at least 48 business
hours in advance. To make a request, contact the Department of Civil Rights, Inclusion &
Opportunity (CRIO) at 224-9516.
For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 