David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy
Manager

Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman
Deputy Director

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, 
AICP

Elizabeth Cabot. Esa.

GEitp of Detroit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

5

Christopher Gulock,
AICP

Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.

David Teeter

TO: The Honorable Detroit Ci

 
 
    

FROM: David Whitaker, Director -
Legislative Policy Div' PD) Staff
DATE: February 7, 2018
RE: 3 recent reports on water policy, equity and security

On January 15, 2019, Council President Jones requested that the Legislative Policy Division (LPD)
provide a report evaluating the effectiveness of the current Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department (DWSD) lease with the Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA). This referral
expressly referenced an article in the Detroit News, regarding the recent report by the Detroit faith-
based organization Metropolitan Organizing Strategy Enabling Strength (MOSES), the Haas
Institute for a Fair and Inclusive Society, and Praxis Partners, entitled ?Water Equity and Security
in Detroit?s Water and Sewer District?.

On January 16, 2019, Council Member Benson requested that LPD provide a report addressing
many similar issues raised by a draft report of the California State Water Resources Control Board,
entitled ?Options for Implementation of a Statewide Low-Income Water Rate Assistance
Program?. This referral further speci?cally seeks examples of best practices that may be
applicable to Michigan, and requests that LPD and DWSD work together toward the goal of
achieving a legally viable and effective water affordability policy that will be adequate to address
Detroit?s longstanding problem of water unaffordability.

For the sake of completeness and fully informed understanding of these issues particularly the
invocation of best practices applicable to Michigan and its unequaled water resources - LPD also
includes in this report on signi?cant recent studies of water equity and security a report and
accompanying proposed draft legislation by the Northern Michigan nonpro?t organization For
Love Of Water (FLOW) entitled, ?Public Water, Public Justice?. Collectively, these three reports

one. 


r"
I . .


provide an overview of current, pressing water justice issues in Southeastern Michigan and beyond
that is of unparalleled depth and breadth.

Water Equitv and Security in Detroit's Water and Sewer District

To make a long report short, and subject to urgently required further research and actions, the
Institute/Praxis report recommends the following speci?c actions:

- A moratorium on residential water shut offs, while responsible of?cials redesign
water equity and security policy to prevent shut offs, presumably via a comprehensive, income-
based water affordability rate structure, with accompanying consumer protections and adequate
infrastructure funding through fair rate structures for all;

- Myriad, speci?c legislative reformsl at federal, state, watershed and local levels
- to clearly authorize water equity, security and affordability, such as:
0 Access to water, HB 4291 Michigan Access and Affordable Water Act, and

HB 4360 Water Access;

0 Water billing and rates, HB 4394 Affordability, and HB 4389 and 4390
Decriminalization of reconnecting water service;

0 Water quality HB 4124 Program for Schools and Child Day Care, and HB
4120, 4372, 4378, and 4379 Water Quality Testing;

0 Citizen oversight and transparency HB 4201 and 4214 MDEQ Citizen
Oversight Commissions, and HB 4375 Water Ombudsman

- Renegotiate the extensive ?nancial agreements, including but not
limited to the water and sewer systems leases, which seem on their face to violate principles of
equity, that have often been discussed (such as the 83/ 17% City/suburban division of debt for the
regional system?s combined sewer over?ow (CSO) facilities, the almost 1/3 of the lease costs paid
out of local City Detroit retail revenues, etc.).

The Council President?s referral of this assignment expressly called out the
questionable value of the lease and its related agreements to the City, which the
MOSES report strongly recommends be re-evaluated. Nothing said here should be understood to
minimize the inherent challenges in renegotiating such complex agreements, or the limitations of
unilateral demands for such renegotiation, particularly in the context of agreements that are so
complex, that were arrived at through the facilitated mediation process ancillary to the City?s
historic bankruptcy involving multiple parties and levels of lawful government authority, and not
least in the deep and longstanding historical context of sometimes ?erce contention over control
of metro Detroit?s water and sewer infrastructure and services.

Notwithstanding such monumental challenges (alluded to by GLWA in its brief and
dismissive response to the MOSES report), the recommendation of further research, analysis and
discussion of these issues is well taken; and

 

The City?s Lansing Lobbyist recently reported under date of February 6, 2019, that HB 4124 and
numerous other proposed water and affordability and access statutes introduced last year in the
State Legislature died in committee, on the House ?oor, and in one case in the Senate.

2

- Implement green infrastructure initiatives.

More broadly (and in sophisticated and richly documented ways), the Center/Praxis
study re-examines our regional water infrastructure in terms of its real-world social impacts,
political and economic determinants, and racial, historical and developmental aspects, beyond the
physical features and ?scal management costs of the infrastructure. The authors recognize and
argue persuasively that this infrastructure and the critical services it delivers are core elements of
our communities? essential social compact, with implications that are Virtually impossible to
overstate for quality of life, development, health and social resilience and cohesion far beyond
their expensive ?nancial costs. They are speci?cally studying Detroit for the same reasons as the
rest of the world including but not limited to the United Nations, the Council of Canadians, the
NAACP, the ACLU and thousands of less well known organizations has been looking at
Detroit?s mass water shut offs in the heart of the Great Lakes in recent years; especially when
considered with the Flint water crisis, this history seems to cry out for major policy innovation.
As they state on page 6 of the executive summary:

?The mission of the DWSD system is clear?as is mission: It should meet the universal
goal that everyone bene?ts from region-wide water security and improved environmental

quality and public health. This universal goal of water security is not realized for everyone and
every place in the service area and so the entire region is deprived of the environmental and
public health bene?ts of widespread water security.?

In this light, at the signi?cant risk of oversimplifying a subtle yet complex analysis, the report
argues that the recent policy of forming the GLWA, essentially in order to treat these assets as an
enterprise oriented exclusively toward its bottom line, effectively reproduces (and arguably,
depending on the results of further research and action, compounds) past injustice that has
intensi?ed current water inequity and insecurity. The above recommendations are offered as
achievable ?rst steps toward rectifying the situation, which is assumed to be government water
policy that is ill-suited to present challenges. Much debate and voluminous, information
exchanges will be necessary to evaluate, and if they are deemed suitable, to implement the
recommendations.

Considerable historical evidence would indicate that the real challenge to signi?cant progress
regarding water affordability is more the basic intentions and purposes of the sponsors
than any legal, data or other technical or logistical challenges. Water policy makers in
Southeastern Michigan have chosen as a practical matter to ignore affordability, security, and
equity for strategic reasons that are embedded in the structure of the purposes and
?nances. That is the core reason why questions are raised about the real value of the water and
sewer systems leases and other key aspects of ?nancial agreements. In this
context, the report suggests that Detroit and our region stand at a crossroads: we can continue on
our present policy path, and experience continued and intensi?ed, decay, inequality, water
unaffordability, and violation of human rights, or we can start on a new path toward water equity
and security for all, that will facilitate more equitable development, prosperity and collective
human dignity promising new levels of social bene?t throughout Southeastern Michigan.

GLWA would respond that they are the water and sewer provider of choice for our region,
representing state?of-the-art government policy (what Mayor Duggan in this context has called
?reality as it is, not as we wish it to Within their limited perspective, the speci?c issues
around water affordability have been addressed by their Water Residential Assistance Program
(WRAP). The assistance policy of the WRAP has long been criticized as an inherently inadequate
way to achieve water affordability. A charity band aid over a policy wound, so to speak. Indeed,
extensive regional consultation processes relating to water policy, are actively
renegotiating and informing fundamental policy decisions, especially around funding, with long
term future implications at this time. A long history of extensive regionalization of water policy
in and around Detroit laid the foundation for the MOSES report?s focus on equity and security.

Some of the community?s criticisms of current water policy have been ?'equently articulated in
public discussions of ?rst years: Wall Street-oriented, privatized, neoliberal
restructuring, governance and resource allocation policies and decisions, can structurally and
systematically rig or bias political, racial and economic frames, to dictate outcomes and powerfully
undemiine important social values. The Flint water scandal and Detroit?s mass water shut offs
have taught us about such realities recently. Productively answering the questions of policy going
forward will require familiarization with research like the MOSES report, which demonstrates that
there is still much more to learn about policy solutions to these challenges, and the formation of
the GLWA between 2014 and 2016 was not the last word on these issues.2

Ultimately, Council may wish to schedule a full discussion of the issues raised in this report, with
representatives of DWSD, GLWA and the Mayor?s administration. As noted in one of 
previous, recent reports on these issues after DWSD made a day-long presentation to Council,
some of the key questions for such a discussion would presumably include:

- Given the obvious shortcomings in a WRAP-style ?assistance? plan currently
funded at a level of approximately one-tenth of the known funding gap from bad debt for
residential services what can be done to devise and implement a comprehensive and truly
sustainable solution to the water affordability crisis we face in the City? What can be done
immediately to address the true need in Detroit?

- Does the fact that collectively constitute a regional monopoly that
provides essentials for life have any impact on their business plans or model? Why doesn?t that
status and dynamic provide leverage for adopting and implementing a truly ?just and reasonable
rates? structure (Charter Sec. 9-508) across the region that?s fair to all? Shouldn?t ?regional
optimization? address the human rights of their poorest and most vulnerable customers?

- Who needs to be at the table to have a comprehensive, meaningful and effective
policy conversation toward developing, adopting and implementing a true water affordability

 

2 The outstanding issue of DWSD violating the City Charter and the Code by refusing to obtain
Council approval of their retail rates and departmental budget is noted, but it is beyond the scope
of this report. At this time, to understanding, that issue is the responsibility of Corporation
Counsel, under his mandatory pre-litigation dispute resolution obligations in the Charter.

4

program based on rates indexed to income for the poor, which respects the internationally
recognized human right to water and sanitation?

- What is the desired result? Is it universal, affordable access to necessary water and
sewer services for all, including the City?s poorest and most vulnerable residents? Why is that not
being clearly articulated? If that is the desired result, what are the key issues, dynamics,
challenges, changes and trade-offs that will have to be resolved to get there? What would a
comprehensive program management operation (modeled on the bifurcation of GLWA and
DWSD) intentionally designed to achieve that result look like?

- What is the current state of political forces and available resources to envision and
move forward with a robust, effective and legally permissible affordability program?

- If: a) GLWA gets a ?true sale? of the region?s water and sewer assets, as well as an
actual voice in their governance; and b) DWSD gets a veto over major GLWA enterprise decisions
via the 5/6 super majority board requirement; then c) What do the City of Detroit?s residents get
from the GLWA deal and the regional ?optimization? it supposedly seeks?

This lOO-page report3, if followed by action could potentially be an extremely signi?cant step
toward reframing issues around water and sewer infrastructure in ways that should bene?t Detroit
residents. In the very nature of its purposeful reconceiving of institutional relationships, history,
and the very purposes of the vast infrastructure issues, it intentionally leaves many more questions
open than it conclusively answers.

The report calls for extensive further research and action in the future. It represents an opportunity
to develop water and sewerage rate making structures in and around Detroit that would bene?t our
people, the region as a whole, and the critical public health, economic development and
infrastructure funding issues of the relationship.

Options for Implementation of a Statewide Low-Income Water Rate Assistance Program

This is an extremely informative report regarding many basic issues of water equity and security,
combined with some detailed technical evaluation reports of California rate structures oriented
toward affordability. In terms of best practices, the California legislature?s historic 2012
designation of a human right to water is notable as a broad and basic step toward water
affordability, equity and security. Indeed, such legislalitm has reportedly been recently
reintroduced in Lansing. Based on limited understanding of the state legislature?s priorities
in Lansing, it seems hard to predict that such a right would be recognized in Michigan in the short
term, but it is important to recognize that the debate is happening.

 

3 The authors of the Institute report were provided with extensive public LPD
reports and supporting documentation, which they clearly read and digested.
Numerous Detroit residents, including LPD staff attorney Thomas Stephens, are expressly
identi?ed as informants who contributed information that went into this report.

5

In 2012, California enacted the Human Right to Water Act (Assembly Bill (AB) 685), establishing
a state policy that every human being has the right to safe, clean, affordable, and accessible water
adequate for human consumption, cooking and sanitary purposes. In recognition that many
Californians may not be able to pay their water bills, recommendations were made to enact a
statewide Low-Income Water Rate Assistance Program (W-LIRA).

In this draft report, the State Water Board outlines possible components for developing a successful
program to help low-income households pay their water bills. Speci?cally, the report identi?es 1)
Potential program recipients, 2) Different mechanisms for delivering bene?ts to low?income
households, and 3) Possible funding sources to implement such a W-LIRA program.

The California State Water Resources Control Board does not mince words and seems to provide
bold leadership: ?Although there are many options for improving water affordability, the need to
address this growing crisis is clear. Safe Drinking Water Must Be a The spirit and,
where applicable, content of this California report deserve leaders? attention. A signi?cant
challenge ?'om arid Southern California to the Great Lakes basin and all points in between and
beyond - is the lack of a sustainable funding for long-term operations and maintenance for drinking
water systems.

Public Water, Public Justice

In terms of comprehensive best practices around Great Lakes water equity and security issues, the
agenda articulated by the Northern Michigan organization For Love Of Water (FLOW) is one of
the leading bodies of work. Its broad and deep coverage is largely based on the ancient and
continuing validity of public trust doctrine as an inherent part of basic public government authority.
These issues are currently involved in contentious ?climate kids?) litigation playing out
in US federal courts involving public trust abuse of atmospheric resources (a public trust-oriented
reframing of global climate change).

Like Califomia?s human right to water, but with understandable detail and nuance derived from
Michigan?s unique hydrogeological conditions and generations of water laws, the FLOW public
policy agenda for ?Public Water, Public Justice? richly merits policy makers? attention in
foreseeable future water rate making debates. Should council decide a learning task force staff
effort would be productive, as brie?y mentioned in the previous subsection of this report, the
voluminous FLOW legal materials should presumably be part of the discussions.

Like the California report, FLOW recognizes that there are multiple ways to de?ne and achieve
real affordability of water and sewer services for all, and incorporates the meaningful debate over
the de?nition of ?affordability? into its model legislative proposal. (Section The FLOW
educational materials compare notorious water and justice issues like the poisoning of Flint and
the Nestle bottled water withdrawals in Northern Michigan, as well as Detroit water shut offs, to
argue for fundamental reframing and reorientation of water laws in the Great Lakes basin, certainly
a topic of historic and globally signi?cant public policy and environmental welfare.

If Council has any other questions or concerns regarding this subject, LPD will be happy to provide
further research and analysis upon request.

WATER EQU





gt haas institute MOSES PRA 

FIJR A FAIR AND INCLUSIVE SDCIETY
.t PARTNERS

 

This report is a joint publication of the
Haas institute for a Fair and inclusive Society
at UC Berkeley, MOSES, and Praxia Partners

About the Authors

Anna Recchie works at the Center for Alternative Sentencing and
Employment Services, a nonprofit criminal justice service provider
in New York City. She previously taught English at a high school in
New Orleans. She graduated from Kenyon College with a Bach-
elor's degree in English, where she studied trauma and narrative
theory.

Joseph J. Recchie the founder of Praxia Partners, has 38 years
of experience in community and economic development. He has
specialized in public-private initiatives designed to increase hous-
ing, educational, environmental and employment opportunities for
marginalized populations in metropolitan areas and to promote the
dual goals of environmental stewardship and social equity.

john a. powell is an internationally recognized expert in the areas
of civil rights, civil liberties, structural racismI housing, poverty, and
democracy. john is the Director of the Haas Institute for a Fair and
Inclusive Society and Professor of Law, African American Studies,
and Ethnic Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.

Lauren Lyons is pursuing a in Philosophy at Rutgers Univer-
sity where she studies moral, legal, and political philosophy. Prior
to attending Rutgers, Lauren worked in criminal justice research
and policy and completed a Watson Fellowship on moral issues
posed by incarceration. She received at BA in Philosophy and
History from Sewanee: The University of the South.

Ponsella Hardaway is the Executive Director of Metropolitan
Organizing Strategy Enabling Strength (MOSES) and is a native
Detroiter. She is also a National Trainer with the Gamaliel Founda-
ton. She has trained leaders across Michigan and the US as well
as congregation members in South Africa, Swaziland, and in the
United Kingdom.

Wendy Ake directs the Haas lnstitute's Just Public Finance proj-
ect and is part of the lnstitute's targeted universalism and strategic
philanthropy team. Wendy's work researches exclusive economic
structures and the design of inclusive transformational economic
systems. She previously worked at the Kirwan Institute for Race
and Ethnicity at Ohio State University.

Special thanks to the Kresge Foundation
for supporting this research.

Acknowledgments

The authors are grateful for the rich leg-
acy of advocacy in the region and thank
a number of organizations and people

for their time and sharing their expertiseI
including: We the People of Detroit and
their Community Research Collective, the
National Coalition for Legislation on Af-
fordable Water, The Great Lakes Environ-
mental Law Center, Russ Beiiant, Roger
Coiton, Peter Hammer, Alice Jennings,
Holly Jensen, Kate Levy, Monica Lew-
is-Patrick, Josiah Rector, Oday Salim, and
Rick Zarella.

Layout 1 Design
Rachelle Galloway-Popotas

Report Citation

Recchie, Joseph, and Anna Recchie, john
a. powell, Laura Lyons, Ponsella Hardaway,
Wendy Ake ?Water Equity and Security

in Detroit's Water Sewer District." Haas
Institute for a Fair and Inclusive Society,
University of California, Berkeley: Berkeley,
CA. January 2019. haasinstituteberkeiey.
edu/detroitwaterequity

Report URL

Find this report online at:
hassigsiitgtg?g?eleygdu!
mam

Contacts

460 Stephens Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720-2330
Tel 510-642-3326
haasinstitute.berkeley.edu


phardaway@mosesmi.org


PUBLISHED IN JANUARY 2019

Contents

Executive Summary

 

Section I

Institutional Relationships: The Great
Lakes Water Authority the Detroit Water
and Sewerage Department

27

 

Section II
Recommendations

40

 

Section 
Water Insecurity in Detroit:
The Costs of the Crisis

58

 

Section IV
The Long History of Detroit?s
Water and Sewerage District

68

 

Endnotes

83

 

introduction 5

Institutional Relationships:
The Great Lakes Water
Authority and the Detroit
Water and Sewer 7

Recommendations 14

The Costs of
Water Insecurity 21

The Long History of
Detroit's Water and
Sewerage District 25

Conclusion 26

EXECUTIVE MARY

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

 

Executive Summary

 

Introduction

Ensuring access to drinking water and wastewater service is a nationwide policy challenge.
Across the United States access is increasingly insecure for many people and places. In this
report we comply with scholarship and legal precedent that defines access to include access
to residential in-home service, quality service that serves environmental and personal health,
and affordable service.

Water security is a term in this report used to describe the presence of structural, systemic,
and institutional arrangements that ensure everyone has consistent access to drinking water
and wastewater services. Water insecurity looks different in the humid east than in the arid
west, different in the Midwest from the South, different between urban, suburban, or rural.
However different water insecurity problems look at the local level, they are the result of similar
institutional, systemic, and structural problems. This is a study of the what persistent water in-
security looks like in the service area of Detroit's drinking and wastewater system (DWSD) and
specific places within that system, notably Detroit.

A 201 '7 Michigan State University study estimated that if water costs continue to increase at
the same rate for the next five years, a third of households in the US may be unable to afford
water costs.1 This alarming figure highlights the scale of water insecurity clue to barriers to
affordable access. Detroit's regional system fits patterns of water and sewer insecurity across
the country and creating water security is an effort that must also consider the operator and
manager of the system?the Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA).

Water and sewer systems in the US have to meet federal regulatory standards to maintain or
improve environmental quality and public health. While the federal government has a uniquely
vast capacity for funding local infrastructure.2 it has provided far less than needed to supple-
ment state and local government investments. Inadequate federal investment creates a perva-
sive problem for local system revenue. The costs of system repair and upgrade to meet regula-
tory standards is high. The Congressional Budget Office data records that federal investments
in the nation's drinking and wastewater systems constituted between 5.7 and 4.0 percent of
total annual spending since 2010. The rest falls to state and local governments? The bulk of
investment then trickles down to revenues from system users in the form of service rates or
fees. To complicate the matter, many citiesI particularly deindustrialized cities, have experienced
economic trends that challenge the capacity for system revenue to cover costs. Some cities'
systems are a century old. In the case of many systems, when the system grew into a regional
system the most aged parts of the infrastructure are those serving the city's urban core. Even
though the EPA has documented 228 water affordability programs across the country, we

did not find note or reference to a plan that adequately addresses the local needs.4 In Detroit,
evidence of barriers to drinking and wastewater service are primarily described as affordability
challenges although there are concerns about the water shutoffs' impact on drinking water
quality vis a vis increasing water age?the amount of time water spends within the system infra-
structure.5

in the context of global climate change, it is critically important that drinking water and waste-
water systems are designed to be adaptable and resilient. Extreme and unpredictable weather
conditions and higher temperatures affect the distribution of rainfall, snowmelt, and ground-

 1aasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

EXEC MARY

Communities
across the US
need solutions
to what has
been described
as among

the primary
infrastructural
challenge of
the twenty-first
century.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District 5

EXECUTIVE MARY

water, ushering in more frequent floods and droughts?patterns that should be anticipated and
integrated in local water and sewer system planning and design. Balancing necessary improve-
ments in the context of shrinking public resources is a common problem with dire impacts.

Communities across the US need solutions to what has been described as among the primary
infrastructural challenge of the twenty-first century.?

The mission of the DWSD system is clear?as is mission: It should meet the univer-
sal goal that everyone benefits from region-wide water security and improved environmental
quality and public health. This universal goal of water security is not realized for everyone and
every place in the service area and so the entire region is deprived of the environmental and
public health benefits of widespread water security.

The national attention brought to Detroit and its water system is driven by the city's bank-
ruptcy and the use of water shutoffs as a dysfunctional incentive for bill payment. The mov-
ing personal accounts of the effects of water shutoffs have mobilized compassion and the
attention of policy makers to address affordability and rate setting. National attention is now
directed at how GLWA operation and management of Detroit?s water and sewer system will
handle the challenges to providing water security and its salutary effects on public health and
environmental quality.

Detroit is a focus in this report for two reasons. even among other cities within GLWA
service area1 Detroit is uniquely positioned because of its ownership of the system and opera-
tion and its management of the system since 1836. The City of Detroit built out the infrastruc-
ture into suburban municipalities which allowed new municipalities to avoid great expense to
establish and develop.

It's an ambitious task to design and align a set of targeted strategies that will enable everyone
to enjoy water security and its contributions to public health and environmental quality. These
strategies cannot be designed without a careful analysis of the unique relationships between
Detroit, the system. GLWA, and the region.

It is with the interests of the entire service area that we analyze the potential of the regional
and exceptionally valuable water and sewer utility and its impact on regional environmental
quality and public health. The next phases of the project will more fully engage the regional
aspects of the system. This will entail broader engagement and consultation with the sys-
tem?s municipal and county governments within the service area. as well as advocate and
community groups that serve those communities. The project aspires to create structural
and institutional coordination between Detroit, Detroiters, DWSD, and GLWA. As ambitious
a goal as that is, we aspire to do more?to promote regional coordination and alignment to
ensure water security for everyone in the region and maximize the system's ability to lift up
regional economic and public health.

Secondly, Detroit is a focus of this report because it exemplifies another national trend in water
and sewer insecurity. People and places most directly impacted by water and sewer insecurity
are also those historically neglected by public institutions and left out of key decision-making
processes. In the case of GLWA and "pockets of water poverty" across the coun-
try?this means poor Black Americans and other people of color, and places where data shows
higher rates of poverty, unemployment. and disability.

Targeted universalism policy requires a detailed understanding of the problem-a process that
is not trivial and requires scrutiny from every direction.7 Accomplishing this initial broad base

of participation is critical and notjust because ?community engagement" is best practice. It is
critical because novel viable strategies cannot be created without understanding all of the com-
plicated ways people?and the places they live?are experiencing water and sewer insecurity
and their different relationships with relevant institutions. This report is a first step in 
ing and analyzing these components of a targeted universal platform for water security in the
DWSD system service area that lifts up public health and environmental quality.

Local governments and households across the GLWA service area and state and federal gov-
ernment are at a critical juncture. National leaders in community organizing have emerged from
the area. They have provided emergency assistance to communities and defined and conduct-
ed areas of research into water insecurity. These people, organizations. and groups are instruc-
tive for people across the country.

Opportunities for national leadership exist in other domains and are needed by local residents

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 6

EXECUTIVE SU MARY

and many more. The incredibly valuable asset that the City of Detroit has built can become a
powerful lever of economic growth?for the city and the region as a whole. They system's opera-
tion can be an example of how to ensure water security across the region and design practica-
ble urgent adaptation to climate change. It can be an example of practical adaptation that also
raises the level of public health and environmental quality. it can also provide a model of how to
provide benefits to everyone and can be best and most fairly accomplished by designing strat-
egies to help places and people who most urgently need relief from structural, systemic, and
institutional barriers. The regional context of the DWSD system and its environmental and pub-
lic health impacts are exceptionally well suited to see how ?we all live and stand
to benefit or be harmed by the way our neighbors fare.

This report outlines a number of technical findings and suggests targeted interventions that
can begin steps to create water security. Resolving problems is not only a matter of technical
correctness and sophistication. Resolutions must also address deeper social cleavages around
race and poverty. Solving the problem of region-wide water security and its contribution to
environmental quality and public health requires technical and social science.

Each section in this Executive Summary corresponds to a full chapter in the report expanding
and elaborating on the topic. We encourage review of the full chapters, particularly if questions
or concerns arise after reading this summary.

We first appraise the way the city is positioned within the GLWA through an analysis of the
lease and services agreements between the DWSD and GLWA. This is an area of great con-
cern to organizations and individuals we spoke with. It is also the core text encoding institu-
tional relationships that set the rules of how decisions about water security, public health, and
environmental quality will be made. Some details of these relationships we discuss respond
to persistent questions that were raised and others raise the profile of well?known community
concerns.

This analysis leads to the next section where we summarize seven recommendations, or oppor-
tunities, that can be pursued to remove structural barriers to region-wide water security and its
environmental and public health benefits. These strategies target specific concerns raised by
Detroiters, city leadership, and community organizations and advocacy groups. Many of them
are the focus of current discussions, advocacy, or projects. The recommendations are raised in
general terms and within these descriptions we identify areas of further inquiry that can further
implementation correspond to information gaps that must close.

An additional chapter details the well-established work linking health outcomes to the acces-
sibility to drinking and wastewater services, access to affordable, in-home, and high-quality
service. We discuss the deleterious effects of water insecurity on both individual and com-
munity health. This discussion was warranted because of concerns related to systemic health
effects of water shutoffs and its cascading effects within communities and an ongoing desire
to develop research in this domain.

The final chapter provides historical context of the drinking and wastewater system. When
groups discuss the need for structural changes, the implication is that structures can either be
a force for marginalization or inclusion. In Detroit's regional area, and across the US, drinking
and wastewater infrastructure can become a force for inclusion. At the moment, the system
functions such that some places and groups of people experience greater water insecurity than
others. Furthermore, the entire area is missing out on the potential for water security to improve
public health and environmental quality. The full history of how local structures are artifacts of
the national and local history of racial animus have been studied and documented in great de-
tail and rigor. It is beyond the scope of this report to reflect the breadth and depth of that work.
Ours is an effort to note specific moments in that history and overlay those moments with key
moments in the evolution of the DWSD system.

 

Institutional Relationships: The Great Lakes Water
Authority and the Detroit Water and Sewer District

The Great Lakes Water Authority (GLWA) operates and manages the Detroit Water and Sewer
District system. The GLWA is a ?public body corporate"?3 created in fall 2014. By the end of

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 7

EXECUTIVE 5U MARY

2014, Detroit and Wayne, Oakland, and Macomb counties joined the Authority. The DWSD
system was formally regionalized in June 2015 when a 40-year lease agreement was approved
and GLWA took over operations and management of the system. Under the current arrange-
ment, the authority leases the regional water system from Detroit. GLWA pays a $50 million per
year lease payment, pays a $26.2 million credit to Detroit's revenue requirements as a ?return
on equity," and commits $4.5 million (or 0.5% of budgeted operating revenues) for a water
assistance program.9 

The terms of the institutional relationships between DWSD and GLWA are detailed in the lease
and services agreements. Here we identify structural design flaws in these agreements that our
research suggests are some root causes of many community concerns. There are other im-
portant documents that require further detailed analysis in future studies?for example GLWA's
master bond ordinance.

The first chapter of the report focuses on how the agreements create structural barriers for water
security in Detroit and throughout the system's service area. These barriers have to be addressed
in order for the system?an exceptionally valuable asset-to create and build opportunities for the
City of Detroit. This is a regional approach that responds to regional inequality but also is practical
in considering economic development in the region.

Additionally, we find that some of the strategies designed to target Detroit will in effect also
benefit a more diverse group of people and places. Creating water security in Detroit will im-
prove water security in other municipalities and among their residential users. The presence

of wide-spread water security implies that a number of critical conditions would also be intact.
For example, improved fiscal health in local communities, quality infrastructure, adequately
funded and well-designed water affordability programs, and quality management and operation
structures. Furthermore?and most important to understand the universal regional benefit-wide
spread water security provides improves environmental quality and public health throughout the
region.

The universal and individually unique benefits of this public asset inspire this project. The po-
tential of Detroit?s system is also the potential of similar public water and sewer systems across
the country. This is the basis for expanding our project?s reach and participation in the coming
phases of the work. This is also the basis for proceeding with designing a platform that meets
the immediate and more urgent needs for some people and places in the service area-in the
process improving the outcomes for people and places throughout the service area.

Water affordability

We first discuss water affordability throughout the system. This is because of the exception-
ally urgent need to address water affordability issues in the city and the associated regime of
water shutoffs. We make recommendations that can respond to this structural problem in both
the short and long term. We primarily spoke with Detroit-based organizations and their primary
reason to attend to affordability is due to the specter of shutoffs within the city. However, there
are clear affordability problems throughout the service area. While we have further work to do
in evaluating the details of affordability problems in other locations, the bulk of recommenda-
tions pertaining to affordability will provide relief to users throughout the service area.

The agreement contains provisions for a $4.5 million water assistance program. However, the
program is demonstrably underfunded, making it impossible to effectively meet the needs on

the system's service area. Even though all those eligible to enroll do not enroll, when the pro-
gram began in March 2016, funds allocated to Detroiters for the year ran out by August.10

The solution is not to simply pour more money into the existing customer assistance program.
It is important to note that the current affordability program merely provides assistance to cus-
tomers whose bills are already overdue, rather than structuring rates to make them affordable
in the first place. Affordability?rather than assistance?programs designed to align with the
general principles of our recommendations will be more durable and do more to expand water
security throughout the service area.

There is a need to update and expand upon the work of the 2005 affordably plan and deter-
mine the costs of comprehensive water affordability in the region today. We have begun a study
that includes the full-service area. Additionally, the study compares the EPA metrics with pro-
posed alternative metrics more suited for targeted place-based affordability standards.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 8

EXECUTIVE SUM MARY

Rate Setting

Designing rate structures is incredibly complex and limiting room to maneuver can limit options
for novel designs that accomplish multiple objectives?including affordability. Rate setting is
entangled with a proposition in the final report from the state's Flint Water Advisory Task Force.
It was suggested that the crisis in Flint ?prompt local and state re-investment in critical water
infrastructure, while providing mechanisms to advance affordability and universal access to
water services."11

The lease agreement contains terms that can be obstacles to fundamentally reevaluating pric-
ing structures. Such reevaluation may be required for effective cost-recovery, as well as for
guaranteeing water security, improving environmental quality, and increasing public health.12
The current agreement could inhibit the development of a rate-setting structure that recovers
costs while ensuring equity, efficiency, and sustainability.

For example, the agreement prohibits increasing rates by more than four percent per year for
the 10 years of the 40-year lease agreement. except when necessary to meet legal obliga-
tions.? This is locked-in but this may not be adequate depending upon the future decisions
and practices of GLWA. The four percent cap could present significant limitations to recover-
ing costs and therefore a barrier to funding a water affordability program and improvements
to Detroit's urban infrastructure. Consultants who recommended the 4 percent cap factored
in funding for the customer assistance plan?but did not account for expanding that program
or creating a robust affordability program.?

Rate increases can be difficult?even impossible? for some wholesale customers to meet with-
out significant financial assistance. For example, a more affluent community with an increasing
population and high employment rate would be able to better absorb and distribute a rate
increase than a community struggling with a shrinking economy, stressed finances, and popula-
tion decline. The design of a fair and adequate rate structure should be sensitive to differences
among places and sensitive to different needs of wholesale customers.

As we propose in the recommendations section of this report, parties with expertise and expe-
rience in developing equitable rate setting strategies should conduct a rigorous and detailed
assessment of the current rate structures and their impacts. Additionally, possible alternatives
should be considered.

Annual Lease Payment

A lease payment should be based on the value of the leased asset and compensation for the
risk its owner faces in such an arrangement. While this detail is not directly connected to ap-
praising the value of DWSD's asset, popular objection to Detroit having to pay for part of the
lease of their own asset drew our attention to analyzing structural features of the lease pay-
ment. The lease agreements categorize the lease payment as a ?commen-to-all" meaning that
DWSD-R will contribute $13.6 million?out of the total $50 million?toward the lease payment in
fiscal year 2018.15

We discuss three primary reasons that analyzing the methodology used to calculate the least
payment and the valuation of DWSD's asset is warranted. Two of them relate to the fact that
GLWA and DWSD are positioned to be national leaders on infrastructure being a site to build
regional equity and development by promoting water security. The last relates to the prospect
that the current lease amount of $50 million may not be fair.

it is of national consequence. There is little publicly accessible methodology on valuing
drinking and wastewater systems. When there has been cause for such a valuation, the pro-
cess is usually conducted by consultant firms and detailed calculations and rationale are often
not disclosed. This is of great concern given the growing practice of public systems entering
into operation and management agreements and leases with public or private corporations.
Either scenario is very different and warrants different valuation processes tailored for the con-
text. However, each scenario does put great importance on ensuring the calculation derives a
reasonable and fair amount. And, the valuation methodology should be open to public review
andin?uence.

Secondly, leasing to a public corporation rather than a private corporation may be preferable if
the only other option is purchase by a private corporation. Notably, though, there is a clear over-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District 9

EXECUTIVE SU MARY

all objection registered by Detroiters of any corporate control of DWSD?whether by private

or public corporations. GLWA is in precisely this situation of a public corporation leasing what
was formerly a publicly controlled asset. Therefore, such analysis and system valuation will be a
significant contribution to water security in the DWSD service area but also to systems across
the US facing similar decisions. Furthermore, ensuring the process is conducted in concert
with participation by DWSD customers and other service area customers will set an exemplary
model for systems across the country.

Finally, in the case of GLWA, we offer three ?data points? that suggest that analysis of the de-
termination of the lease payment and valuation of the system is warranted. None of these three
points definitely shows that the lease payment is artificially low. However, each point does high-
light the why we feel the lease payment does not reflect the value of the asset and the risk the
lease?DWSD? assumes within the agreement. There is a need for a professional evaluation of
the methodology used to calculate the lease payment and a valuation of the drinking water and
wastewater systems.

One signal of the potential for this problem is raised by the substantial value of the system?ul-
timately the system's revenue?that enabled successful bond offerings in 2016 and
2018. In August 2015 GLWA was able to issue $1 billion?in bonds
following the adoption of a master bond ordinance.?3 These bonds were comprised of $421.3
million in revenue refunding bonds for the sewerage disposal system and $917.8 million water
supply system revenue and revenue refunding bonds. Months prior to their sale date, the 2016
bond series' credit ratings were upgraded by Moody's

?[rle?ect?ng] improved financial metrics resulting from revenue growth, rate restruc-
turing to enhance collections, and ongoing implementation of operating efficiencies,
the massive scale of water operations in southeast 

Again in 2018, GLWA was able to issue million?in system reve-
nue and revenue refunding bonds.1a Similarly, these bonds' credit ratings were upgraded by
Moody's prior to their sale. The investors service explained that:

[t]he the continued trend of strong financial performance by an
essential service enterprise whose customer base includes a substantial share of the
state '3 population. The rating balances the sewer system ?3 healthy debt service cov-
erage and liquidity against high leverage. The rating also considers the large share of
system-wide revenue generated by retail operations in the City of 

The rationale for the bond series? credit upgrades in 2016 and 2018 reflects some circum-
stances that would also have been applicable to DWSD had the operations and management
not been leased to GLWA: for example, the fact that the system provides an ?essential service"
to a sizeable share of the Michigan's population. Other circumstances may have been met by
DWSD has their debt been restructured with creditors: for example, operational improvements
and improved liquidity and leverage ratios. Circumstances related to increased revenue collec-
tion in the city and rate restructuring is the basis of strong community resistance as these are
understood to be a rationale for dramatic increases in water shutoffs beginning in 2013 but
most pronounced in 2014 and thereafter.20

Another data point might suggest the lease payment does not appropriately reflect the value of
the asset. We can find results of the valuation of water and sewer systems when it is purchased
or acquired by a private corporation. We can then compare DWSD to such a privatized system.
In 2017, Aquarion Water sold one of its systems to Eversource Energy for $880 million.21 The
DWSD system serves 6 times the number of people and the debt per capita?per utility system
customer? is similar.?2 This comparison is not one that is nuanced to all the different features of
both systems.

It is difficult to compare the value of one system to another and difficult to map the sale of a
utility to an investor owned corporation. However, this does raise the need make sure the lease
payment reflects the value of the system and is designed to promote water security among cus-
tomers across the region. Such a valuation needs to also be tailored to the context of a public
corporation being the lessor?which may further complicate this comparison.

Finally, the systems' audited 2014 Certified Financial Annual Reports value the net capital as?

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District 

EXEC UTIVE SD MARY

sets of the water system at $2,01 billion, and the net capital assets of the sewer
system at billion.? The Governmental Accounting Standards Board
accounting rules are primarily designed to design comparable reports of the overall financial
condition of governments or government entities. The accounting rules for valuing the capital
assets of water and sewer system capital is not necessarily well suited to calculating a systems
value in the context of a lease agreement to a private or public corporation.24 However, in the
absence of established methodology or precedent, this does highlight the need to adequately
analyze the methods used to calculate the lease payment amount and to properly appraise the
value of the system in the context of leasing it to a public corporation.

The amount at which the DWSD system is valued and the process used to calculate the lease
payment of that asset is a necessary component of GLWA's governance going fonNard. These
studies will determine a well-informed position on whether the lease payment is fair and in the
interests of system-wide water security?including service affordability, water quality, wastewa-
ter service adequacy, and improved environmental quality and public health.

Cost Allocations

Under the lease and shared services agreements, some costs of operating and improving the
regional system are considered ?common-to-all," meaning that DWSD-R and other wholesale
customers contribute to them, while others are ways costs are allocated
within these classes tends to be unfairly burdensome for Detroit and neglects the city's unique
relationship. These unfair cost allocation practices perpetuate regional inequities and endanger
the sustainability of the portion of the infrastructure that is within the city's borders.

For example, as stated above, under the current arrangement, the $50 million/year lease
payment is a common-to~all cost, meaning that when costs are divided, Detroit contributes
$13.6 million to the lease payment for its own system.25 Our conversations and research

do not find documentation discussing the rationale for categorizing the lease payment as a
common-to-all cost explained. This should be pursued and be available for public review and
debate. This is the case even in light of the $26.2 million ?return on equity" GLWA pays De-
troit on an annual basis.26

On the other hand, substantial costs associated with the combined sewer system are allocat-
ed to Detroit. Due to the absence of necessary investment and improvement, a large portion
of the water and sewerage infrastructure within municipal Detroit?s boundaries, including that
under the domain of DWSD-R, is left with a combined sewer system (088) in need of repair
and upgrade.27

in a CSS system, wet weather events?melting snow or rain-can degrade water quality and
may cause public health and environmental quality issues. A 088 system collects rainwater
runoff, domestic sewage, and industrial wastewater into one pipe.28 When the volume of
wastewater exceeds the capacity of the system or the treatment plant, usually during wet
weather events like heavy rainfall or snowmelt, combined sewer overflows (080) may result.
This means that untreated or partially treated human and industrial waste, toxic materials,
debris, and stormwater discharges directly into streams, rivers, and other water bodies.29

State EPA agencies, like Michigan's Department of Environmental Quality, are tasked to
regulate and track 080 events and issue permits. Each permit sets Specific conditions that
the system must conform to such that the CSO Policy?a national framework that is
designed to ensure 080 events will not violate Clean Water Act standards.3? Despite this
regulatory system, there is a nationwide problem with the capacity of CSS systems to make
adequate upgrades to meet water quality standards. This is, in part, due to a lack of federal
spending on drinking and wastewater infrastructure that could supplement state and local
government spending.

Infrastructure to reduce CSO events?creating a separate sewer or building new infrastruc-
ture? can be too costly. Because local governments finance 98 percent of water and sewer
infrastructure costs, financing capital intensive projects like this can be difficult. Combined
sewer systems can no longer be built and cities with 080 systems often try to convert to
sanitary sewers or reduce the likelihood of 080 events through green or grey infrastructure
projects. Traditional remedies include filtering contaminated overflow or relieving pressure
on the system by way of large retention basins. These initiatives can take the form of either

haasinstitute.berkeley.adu I mosesmi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 11

EXECUTIVE SU MARY

?grey" or ?green" 080 management.?1 While green infrastructure projects are a promising
strategy to reduce 080 events, cities under compliance schedules with the EPA can be
?locked into? traditional grey infrastructure projects and may have to seek approval to imple-
ment those projects.

Under the current agreement, Detroit covers 83 percent of the costs of several CSO facilities
leased by the regional system, while the wholesale customers cover only 17 percent.32 Addi-
tionally, Detroit is required to cover 83 percent of the costs of some ?future green facilities," as
well as grey facilities which are deemed to ?primarily serve Detroit"?a distinction which is un-
clear considering that the systems are, literally, interconnected.33

This 83/17 split is rooted in the 1999 Rate Settlement Agreement, passed while DWSD was
under federal court oversight as part of the effort to oblige the utility to comply with regulatory
standards.34 83 percent of the construction costs for any 080 control system is covered by
Detroit residents while suburban wholesale customers pay the remaining 17 percent?even if
the 080 system exclusively serves non-Detroiters. The agreement enforces an exceptionally
questionable cost structure for 080 management. It puts additional fiscal stress on DWSD-R
and the city, which are already struggling to provide quality service and properly maintain urban
infrastructure. There is also frustratidn in the community that the rationale of the 83/17 split is
not clear?leaving the cost allocation to seem arbitrary from the perspective of community mem-
bers. The city has begun charging high unmetered drainage fees to DWSD-R customers.

From our research, it almost certain that this is a direct consequence of this 83/17 split.35
These drainage fees are for Detroit's residents, but also challenge the fiscal sustainability of
important social institutions in the city, including faith-based institutions that are a foundation
for community services and social bonding in Detroit.

Financing costly and vital updates to older infrastructure is not just a problem for the City of De-
troit. Many municipalities served by the system are more affluent suburbs with greater financial
resilience and these municipalities are those most likely to have newer separate sanitary sewers.
However, there are many suburban municipalities that are struggling with development and aging
infrastructure?including water and sewer infrastructure. These are the types of suburban areas
that are also populated by more diverse people?meaning these suburbs counter the stereotype
of affluent white suburbs. Nationally, these struggling and diverse suburbs are the fastest growing
suburbs.

This is the pattern in the service area of the DWSD system?while the City of Detroit has experi-
enced dramatic population decline, the regional area has not.

Mitigating the harm of 080 events is not only in the interest of the people living in the imme-
diate area of the discharge into surface waters. The environmental principle ?we are all down-
stream" is well suited to this problem. Ensuring surface water quality is a service provided not
only to Detroiters or communities with combined sewers is a service provided to the entire
service area?and many more. Maintaining water quality within the Great Lakes Water Basin
contributes to the quality of 20 percent of the globe's fresh surface water. Water security and
its impacts on environmental quality and public health are a perfect example of universal bene-
fits.

There is also more area for research to ensure fair cost allocation within the agreements be-
tween DWSD and GLWA?agreements that are currently operating and those coming in the
future. The allocation of other types of costs have yet to be determined and the precedent for
making such allocations is to limit public debate and contestation. This allocation is important
given that if Detroit is unable to meet its financial commitments, there are substantial negative
consequences for Detroit. The city has already lost significant control of the system and the
associated potential to benefit from investments in the system?but it is threatened with loosing
even its remaining authority.

Governance Structure

GLWA has a six-member board, which includes: two positions appointed by the Detroit mayor,
one appointed by the governor (who will soon be replaced by a representative from Flint, which
returned to the regional system in 2017), and seats for each county in the service area?Wayne,
Oakland, and Macomb counties.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 12

EXECUTIVE SUM MARY

Detroit has two of six positions on the GLWA board of directors. The system provides 125
suburban communities with water service and 77 communities with sewer service. These are
represented by GLWA board representatives from their respective counties. One of the seats
currently apportioned to the state of Michigan is marked for a representatative from Flint, MI.
This arrangement signals an acknowledgement of the unique relationship Detroit has with
DWSD-R is not similarly related to GLWA.

However, Detroit's authority is limited relative to its historic contributions to the region and its
historic operation and system management since 1836. GLWA's institutional structure should
benefit from expanding the role of Detroit within GLWA. This general principle could suggest any
number of changes to GLWA and strategies may include, but should not be limited to, consider-
ing GLWA board structure. This is the rationale for our identification of a structural governance
problem within the GLWA service and lease agreements?one that is clearly communicated in the
work of and our conversations with many of Detroit's community-based organizations.

Detroit has vested interest in the operation and management of the system as owner of the
asset. This is at the heart of many objections from organizations and the simple arrangement of
seats on the board are not seen to adequately reflect the city's unique relationship with GLWA.
In fact, the arrangement is seen as an expression of disrespect for the role of the city in building
the system and enabling the creation of suburbs through expanding its infrastructure. It is seen
to also express the popular discourse of recent decades that represents the city as incompe-
tent and in need of outside leadership and direction.

A super majority is required for all major decisions, and Detroit only has two members appoint-
ed by the mayor. This is in contrast to the three representatives from the counties and one ap-
pointed by the governor, soon to be replaced by a representative from Flint.36 This governance
structure diminishes Detroit's influence in making long-term decisions about the future of the
system. To many community groups, particularly those suffering under the weight of unafford-
able bills, the GLWA board structure echoes the disenfranchisement felt under emergency
management. Notably, this design also presumes that the full diversity of water security prob-
lems within counties is adequately represented through the county-level representatives. It is
reasonable that there is a reasonable limit to the number of seats on the GLWA board.

However, the limits of expecting few board representatives to adequately represent a wide
diversity of needs suggests the need for GLWA to design additional structures for local in-
fluence in its governance structure. Additionally, it is possible that DWSD-R will be unable to
meet its financial obligations under the GLWA agreement, especially given the lack of clarity
in the way costs will be shared in the system. Should the city be unable to meet these obliga-
tions, current governance structures can create serious issues for Detroit. DWSD-R
can lose its ability to set rates, issue bills, or establish collection practices.? The city can also
forego future lease payments if it withdraws from the Authority.? Finally, should conflict arise
between GLWA and DWSD-R, dispute resolution occurs through an arbitration process that
blocks access to courts.?

In identifying strategies that respond to the GLWA governance structure we must think more
deeply than simply adding a seat to the board or giving another seat to the city. There is
much more at stake. And, to simply make those changes does not respond to the way other
suburban areas are very differently situated within GLWA. Having a county-level represen-
tative is a profound problem for representing the very different needs of places and peOple
within that county.

The Creation of GLWA

The prospect of regionalizing the utility was previously raised in a number of venues before the
city's bankruptcy process. For example, the state legislature introduced legislation to regional-

ize the system and negotiations of DWSD under the EPA suit also attempted to regionalize the
system.

The Great Lakes Water Authority, created in 2014, leases the regional water and sewerage
infrastructure from Detroit for $50 million per year for 40 years. Those funds are set aside in an
account managed by GLWA to fund capital improvements on Detroit's urban water and sewer-
age systems. The authority also commits $4.5 million or .5 percent of based budgeted operat-
ing revenues for a water assistance program.40 As a ?return on equity," GLWA provides a $26.2

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water 8. Sewer District 13

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

million credit to revenues Detroit is required to collect under the agreements.?

From our research, we found these technical details critically important. Equally important and
meaningful were the social conditions of the regionalization process. A notable factor that has
alienated many people and groups we spoke with was that negotiations occurred under the
suspension of ordinary democratic process. Substantive decisions and negotiations took place
under the period of the city's emergency management.

Under emergency management residents were effectively disenfranchised from democratic
representation and contestation in formal governance. It is widely thought that the regionaliza-
tion of the DWSD system would not have occurred if the regular process of public referendum
were required. It has also been suggested that regionalizing the system in the absence of a
referendum would be contrary to the state's constitution.

The alienation expressed in our conversations also had profound racial dimensions. This is
evidenced by seeing the racial footprint of places where emergency management has been
instituted within the state. Since 2009, nine Michigan cities were appointed emergency manag-
ers by the state?six of those cities constitute 49.8% of the state's African American population.
Whether or not there was an intentional design to sever local control of local government for
the majority of the state's African American population, there were clearly uneven racial impacts
of the implementation of emergency management. The state law enabling emergency manage-
ment is, in and of itself, an artifact of state government rejecting the democratic will of state
residents. State legislation enabling emergency management, PA 4, was repealed in 2012 in a
statewide referendum. A month after this repeal the legislature passed PA 436 which effective-
ly replaced the repealed legislation. While multiple circumstances alienated Detroit residents
from thedecision made in recent years, emergency management was at the root cause of most
objections.

GLWA operates and manages ?parts' of the DWSD system within Detroit's municipal boundar-
ies. DWSD-Retail (DSWD-R) continues to operate and manage the remaining ?parts' the sys-
tem within its municipal borders. The ?parts? of the system are defined and itemized in the lease
and services agreements and subsequent DWSD and GLWA documents. It is not entirely clear
how tasks associated with management and operation of system components are parsed out,
nor is the rationale of the division clear. Suburban customers remain wholesale customers,
meaning that suburban municipalities purchase water and sewerage services from GLWA at a
wholesale rate. DWSD-R is created to be another wholesale customer of GLWA although it is
situated differently than other wholesale customers.

 

Recommendations

We identify and outline seven recommendations that address the barriers discussed in the
previous section. In our conversations to this point, we find that some of these recommendations are
new, some are already underway and are expanded upon here, and others are in discussion among
different groups that may or may not already be coordinating. The recommendations are accompa-
nied by preliminary analysis, and we outline and suggest points for further inquiry.

This report intends to illuminate meaningful and potentially powerful changes that directly
respond to the most pressing community needs. To further this work in its future phases, we
must broaden the cast of collaborators and consult with experts to rigorously explore and
pursue the proposed strategies.

Recommendation 1:
Moratorium on Residential Water Shutoffs and
Redesign Decision Making on Water Shutoffs

We propose instituting an immediate moratorium on residential water shutoffs until such
time adequate processes are established that allow individuals a form of due process in
the course of a water shutoff. Processes should enable effective and easily navigable
processes to challenge to shutoff orders and access financial support programs. The

moratorium should also be in place until there is a clear sufficient process to distinguish

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 14

EXECUTIVE SU MARY

between accounts that are able or unable to pay. During of the period of that moratori-
um, it is essential for GLWA, DWSD, and other service providers to seriously consider
the objections raised by the Detroit community and international agencies and implement
long-term, dramatic changes to service disconnection practices.

There are many industries that rely on customer revenue to stay afloat; however, the inability to
pay for services ought not result in an acute threat to health and safety. Any policies that pur-
sue service disconnection to incentivize payment should be designed to apply only to situations
in which there is an ability and unwillingness to pay. This will disqualify the vast majority of ser-
vice disconnections.

An expanded and effective water affordability program and changes to current rate structures
will reduce instances of inability to pay, thus curbing the need for residential water shutoffs.
These possibilities are detailed in recommendations three and four.

Fair disconnection policies could be established by encouraging service providers to adjust
their customer service policies or by implementing legislation that forbids water shutoffs where
failure to pay is based on economic hardship.

Recommendation 2:
Implement a Comprehensive Water Affordability Plan

For many people in the service area, drinking water and wastewater service rates are simply unaf-
fordable. In order to safeguard environmental quality, public health, and water security we recom-
mend designing and implementing a comprehensive income-based water affordability plan. This
recommendation reflects a primary concern of Detroit leaders and community members.

In 2005, with the support of Detroit's robust activist community, affordable utilities expert Roger
Colton designed an income-based water affordability plan for Detroit in response to increasing
rates of shutoffs. The plan, known as the Water Affordability Program (WAP) was approved by
the Detroit city council in 2006 but never implemented.

We recommend adopting a revised and expanded version of Colton's plan that includes cus-
tomers across the entire GLWA service area. In the fall of 2015, Philadelphia became the first
major city to adopt an income-based affordability program, and similar cities are following suit.
By implementing a robust water affordability plan, GLWA, DWSD, and other wholesale custom-
ers will join the cast of cities implementing similar policies to ensure water security.

Further research should identify the precise needs across the service area and match these to

program design features. It is possible that components of the original WAP are best suited to
this effort. These included providing fixed credits to GLWA customers' bills. The fixed credit is

calculated by determining a burden-based payment (is. an affordable percentage of house-
hold income), (ii) the annual bill amount, and the fixed credit necessary to reduce annual bill
to a burden-based payment.

The 2005 WAP plan required that water and sewerage rates not exceed between two to three
percent of annual household income. As there is also a diverse and consistent call for basing
affordability plans based on criteria other than household income, we recommend further inqui-
ry into the most effective metrics for determining affordable burdens.

In 2016, the Senate Appropriations Committee directed EPA to contract with the National
Academy of Public Administration (NAPA) to ?conduct an independent study to create a
definition of, and framework for, community affordability of clean water?2 that encompassed
both drinking water and wastewater. NAPA produced a comprehensive literature review, over
100 stakeholder interviews--including PA Financial Advisory Board, Council of Mayors, water
industry groups, academics, consultants, governmental entities, and others?a stakeholder
survey, and a roundtable discussion with stakeholders and experts.? Their 2017 report pro-
duced a set of findings and recommendations related to affordability concerns and improve-
ments to EPA metrics, among other things.

In discussions with NAPA about the above critiques, EPA noted that the was
intended to assess overall system affordability rather than individual household af-
fordability, that it desired a ?common starting point" for negotiations between regula-
tors and individual permittees, and that an adjustment to the metrics would increase

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 15

EXECUTIVE 5U MARY

staff workload by reopening negotiation around existing consent decrees (legal
agreements between EPA and permittees regarding actions and timelines required to
achieve compliance with CWA and SDWA regulations).44

There is a need to update and expand upon the work of the 2005 affordably plan and deter-
mine the costs of comprehensive water affordability in the region today. The above quote is

taken from a report in publication that compares the EPA metric and two alternative metrics
that enable more targeted place-based analysis of water affordability. This type of study is a
prerequisite to designing an robust and adequate affordability plan.

Recommendation 3:
Incorporate Basic Consumer Protection in GLWA Policies

This recommendation acknowledges that many systems already have consumer protections in
place?many states require such programs. The term itself, ?consumer protection" is misleading
in that a public utility ?consumer" is different than a ?consumer" of hamburgers or electronic
equipment?and this difference should be reflected in the design of protection policies. In many
places? Detroit included?the failure of consumer protection programs in the context of drinking
water and wastewater systems is inadequate.

For example, in Detroit's system there is an appeal process, but due to data systems in the
DWSD we understand that many users were not provided notice or were provided notice but
were unable to navigate the process for appealing the collection process or arranging existing
financial support systems. The scale of the shutoffs in Detroit is larger than in other areas we
found through our research.

In other places where shutoffs have taken place there are also consumer protection measures
on the books. For example, in Baltimore there were 1,400 shutoffs in 2016 and 8,000 the year
before. Some media reporting on the Baltimore shutoffs have described the effects being less
severe than in Detroit, in part because the accounts with the largest balances were primary
focus and this included some private corporate accounts. Additionally, it was reported that
there was priority also given to collect balances in areas with lower poverty rates and it is pre-
sumed that this meant fewer people who could not pay were shutoff.

The process of shutoffs can be better designed. Other state utility organizations have protec-
tion for utilities?including water. Many allow for a delay, usually 30 days, in the case of medical
events and this stay can be renewed. However, in the absence of doing a full survey of con-
sumer prote tions from water shutoffs throughout US states there seems to be a pattern that
focuses on age, ability, and health?and that these circumstances only offer temporary relief. It
also seems very common to offer payment restructuring programs.

These orthodox consumer protection plans are not adequate to address the needs of a family
who is unable to pay a water and sewer utility bill. Fundamentally, any consumer protection
plan needs to be linked to and designed alongside with an adequate affordability plan. How-
ever, consumer protection can be part of that process and enable the system to distinguish
between account holders who are able or unable to pay their bills?and who is or is not sub-
ject to a water shutoff.

Some components to a consumer protection plan were described in Colton's 2005 Water
Affordability Plan (WAP). We propose adopting protections in the following areas:

1. Late fees: Late fees disproportionately impact low-income people and worsen financial
stressors. Currently, DWSD-R charges a five percent late-fee for overdue accounts. As that
five percent well exceeds the costs associated overdue accounts, we recommend lowering
that percentage or eliminating late fees all together.

2. Deferred payment plans for arrears: Customers with seemingly ?affordable" bills bur-
den can still be left with unaffordable bills when they have past due bills. We recommend
implementing renegotiable payment plans and allowing arrears to be paid in regular
installments.

Currently, DWSD-R and wholesale providers have their own customer service policies. To im-
plement policy reforms region-wide, each service provider could adopt the policies, or GLWA
could develop new policies which apply to all of its regional customers.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 16

EXECUTIVE 5U MARY

Recommendation 4:
Implement Legislative Reforms

The universal goal is wide-spread water security? of access to affordable. high quality. and res-
idential drinking and wastewater service and benefitting from its contributions to environmental
quality and public health. This universal goal should animate legislation and regulatory standards.

Several states and municipalities have implemented protective water legislation. and we
recommend further inquiry into potential legal and legislative strategies. Federal legislation

that bears on the water security?access to drinking water and wastewater service?includes
5.2015. the Water Affordability Act that would create low-income drinking and wastewater
assistance pilot program.45 This program is a targeted strategy as eligibility for the program is
set by particular geography. income. and enrollment in other assistance programs. This bill was
introduced in June 2018.

At the end of October. America's Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 was signed into law.?6
This type of legislation requires re-authorization every two years and makes modest increases
in investments in drinking water. Terrain of debate on this bill pertains to provision that enable
greater participation of private corporations in the work of public infrastructure. For example.
there is an interest to remove a cap on private activity bonds and other terms of the legis-
lation that could impact regulation of infrastructure that runs through waterways which has
been an interest of the energy sector.

The National Coalition for Legislation on Affordable Water advocates for a variety
of measures at the state and federal levels." Those efforts include legal measures to ensure
access to water. fair water billing and rates. water quality. and citizen oversight and transpar-
ency. NCLA Water?s Michigan statewide legislative package. which offers a sample of a viable
legislative model. includes the following:

Access to Water

HB 4291 Michigan Access and Affordable Water Act. Creates the ?Accessible and Afford-
able Water Act." which would require that all state departments and agencies employ all rea-
sonable means to adopt policies to ensure that water is affordable and accessible as long as
those policies do not affect eligibility for federal funds.

HB 4360 Water Access. Requires access points for safe drinking water be available in places
where residents are not supplied municipal water hook-ups.

Water Billing and Rates

HB 4394 Affordability. Addresses water rate structures that unduly burden low-income res-
idents by amending the Social Welfare Act to create a residential water affordability program
within DH HS in order to ensure that water bills are based on household income.

HB 4389 and HB4390 Decriminalization. Decriminalizes the act of re-connecting water ser-
vice from a five-year felony to a civil infraction or misdemeanor.

Water Quality

HB 4124 Program for Schools and Child Day Care. Establishes water testing and interven-
tions in schools and child daycare centers. as well as mechanism for repairing and replacing
sources of lead contamination.

HB 4120; HB 4372. 4378. 4379 Water Quality Testing. Requires water quality testing at reg.
ular intervals in schools, colleges. universities. nonpublic schools and hospitals.

Citizen Oversight and Transparengi
HB 4201 and HB 4214 MDEO Citizen Oversight Commissions. Restores a gubernatori-
al-appointed citizen oversight commission on water quality.

HB 4375 Water Ombudsman. Establishes a Water Ombudsman to advocate for residents
throughout the state on water-related issues.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 17

EXECUTIVE MARY

Recommendation 5:
Evaluate the Fairness of Annual Lease Payment

We recommend conducting a comprehensive appraisal of the regional water and sewerage
system, and given that value. recalculating the annual lease payment.

This issue is at the center of the inequity of the currently-in-place agreements between the
City of Detroit and GLWA. In order to ensure the distribution of affordable high-quality water
and establish an equitable relationship between the city and the region, the annual lease
payment must reflect the value of the system as assessed through proper review.

Though information about how the lease payment was calculated is not readily available, it ap-
pears that the value of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department and its infrastructure was
underestimated. At minimum DWSD-R should not need to contribute $13.6 million to the lease
payment of a portion of its own asset.?

The lease payment ought to be recalculated following comprehensive appraisal. Given the
sensitivity and centrality of this matter. it is imperative information about those negotiations be
publicly available. Local systems in a growing number of places in the US are entering into
operation and management contracts1 leases. and other types of arrangements with public and
private investor owned corporations. Assessing the lease payment amount and decisions that
were involved is an opportunity to provide leadership at the national level. Systems across the
country are facing similar difficulties and complexities in setting the terms of arrangements they
enter. This is both a problem for policy makers to gauge their expectations and for community
members to impact and influence decisions.

Recommendation 6:
Rework the Terms of the GLWA Service Agreement

The existing framework of the agreements between the City of Detroit and GLWA creates
unnecessary structural burdens for the City of Detroit to exercise its unique role as owner of
the system. Additionally, its position within the GLWA governance structure is similarly limited
to other municipalities in the service area. We recommend changing some aspects of the
current agreements in order to build towards water security for everyone and every place in
the service area.

We discuss five concerns to address:

- Depending on the results of analysis of the process that calculated annual lease
payment and the valuation of the system there may be need to adjust the lease payment
accordingly.

- The allocation of costs between DWSD-R and GLWA can contribute to Detroit's unafford-
ability problem and other regional areas similarly disadvantaged.

- Contain provisions can impede the establishment of fair and sustainable rate-setting
structures.

- Institute a flawed governance structure that diminishes Detroit's agency as a steward and
owner of the system and diminishes the role of other retail customers to have their unique
concerns adequately represented.

- Terms of the agreement were based on funding an inadequate customer assistance program
and there was no consideration of designing terms to build a robust affordability program.

In addition to researching and possibly adjusting the annual lease payment we recommend
reframing the Detroit/G LWA agreements by:

- Establishing a more equitable cost-sharing model that takes regional inequities into ac-
count. This will likely involve making expenses associated with the combined sewer over-
flows (CSO) common?to-all and not requiring Detroit to contribute to the lease payment.
Current rate structures should be reappraised based upon a more thorough analysis of
water affordability throughout the region

Reconsidering current rate-setting structures in order to develop a system designed to
balance cost-recovery, conservation. affordabilityI and economic development while also
preserving water security throughout the service area. This may involve abandoning the four

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 18

EXECUTIVE SUM MARY

percent rate cap. Crucially, any rate increase that exceeds the four percent cap must be
accompanied by a robust affordability plan,

Reworking the GLWA governance structure to ensure that Detroit and other places in the
region have fair representation in decision making bodies. Addressing this concern can ex-
tend beyond simply adding seats to the board. Rather, deep analysis should be conducted
into best practices and alternative structures that can adhere unique community concerns
to influence in decision making. Additionally, legal resources and protections should be
created such that Detroit or other wholesale customers have access to proper legal remedy
if there are disputes or failures to meet obligations or a decision is made to withdraw from
the authority.

- Creating structures to fund an affordability plan.

- Reworking any terms of the agreements should not be conducted in the spirit of decisions
during bankruptcy processes that alienated the GLWA from those receiving its service.49
The very best practices and even new processes that provide meaningful influence by com-
munity groups should drive decisions. Detroit and other areas facing water insecurity ought
to be fairly represented, expert opinions should be taken into consideration, and information
about the renegotiation process ought to be made readily available to the public and ex-
press a commitment to transparency and community accountability. It is likely that achieving
comprehensive water equity in Detroit will require the agreement to be renegotiated more
than once. We recommend that fair, periodic negotiation be a central aspect of the of the
relationship between the City of Detroit and GLWA.

Recommendation 7:
Implement Green Infrastructure Initiatives

Addressing the problem of systemwide water insecurity in isolation is a disservice to the effort
to design a system that provides region-wide environmental quality, public health, and water
security. Water insecurity, as we have suggested earlier, is a result of many entangled social,
economic, and environmental issues. These issues include, but are not limited to, aging urban
infrastructure, historical imbalances of power, austerity and systemic divestment, and stressed
municipal finances.

In response to these interconnected challenges, we recommend enacting a broad green infra-
structure initiative in Detroit. Green infrastructure offers a dynamic, multidimensional solution to
Detroit's interrelated problems.

Green infrastructure involves natural and engineered environmental upgrades that promote
water reuse and infiltration into the natural aquifer. Green infrastructure offers an opportunity to
relieve pressure on Detroit's aging water and sanitation infrastructure while also facilitating eco-
nomic growth and sustainable urban development. While traditional grey infrastructure improve-
ments are necessary, GI projects can provide resilience to the effects of climate change and
reduce the demands on the scale of grey infrastructure needs. Additionally, investing in drinking
water and wastewater systems have positive and significant impacts on state and local econo-
mies. Green infrastructure has an array of potential social, environmental, and financial benefits
for Detroit and the region. These multidimensional benefits, which comprise a ?Triple Bottom
Line" framework, have been well-documented in other cities.50

Based on a 2016 assessment by the American Society of Civil Engineers, this study estimates
that the US needs to invest an additional $82 billion per year in water infrastructure at all levels
of government over the next 10 years to meet projected capital needs. If the estimated invest-
ment gap were closed, it would result in over $220 billion in total annual economic activity to
the country. These investments would generate and sustain approximately 1.3 million jobs over
the 10-year period.51

A study should be commissioned that applies this analysis to the economic effects of invest-
ment in southeast Michigan. A design for a study of this type is undenNay and meets industry
standards for rigor and quality.

Michigan's Department of Evironmental Quality has developed and implemented several ex-
tensive green infrastructure projects in the city and the region in recent years.52 The initiatives
we propose here complement green infrastructure projects unden/vay in Detroit. These existing

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District 19

EXECUTIVE SUM MARY

Two Paths for Detroit

The first column is what it will be like in 10 years ifwe continue to make the
choice not to act. the second column is what it will be like in 10 years ifwe make
the choice to implement the recommended changes

Continued Disinvestment

Continued human right to
water crisis

Water and sewerage fees
steeply increase

DWSD forced to continue
paying fines for violating
EPA laws, meaning higher
water rates

More breaches in

system, leading to more
wasted water and higher
unmetered water loss fees

Poor water quality.
including lead
contamination

Another 200,000 shutoffs

Undermines plans for
economic development and

neighborhood reinvestment,

compromising property
values. school system, and
other public services like
police and fire protection

Depopulation

Meaningful Reinvestment

No more shutoffs

Affordable water and increased
revenue for DWSD

Green Infrastructure
investment creates 15.000
living wagejobs and spurs
small business growth

Improved air and water quality.
including cleaner rivers and
lakes

Restoration of tree canopy

Increased property values and
tax base

Detroit recognized for its
resourcefulness. ingenuity,
and persevearance

Southeast Michigan earns a
national reputation as leader in
sustainable water quality and
access, setting the standard for
infrastructure redevelopment

initiatives set precedent for the potential of green strategies.

What we suggest here is a significant increase in scale of these programs and also principles
that should be integrated into current efforts underway.

Green infrastructure can also reduce costs associated with the combined sewer system by
lessening the quantity of impervious surfacesI and thus reducing the amount of water entering
the system. This diversion of runoff results in savings in labor. chemical, and energy costs, as
well as costs associated with preventing combined sewer overflows.

Detroit offers an ideal setting for an ambitious green infrastructure initiative for four reaons.

1. Green infrastructure requires a large amount of low-cost land. which Detroit has in abun-
dance.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 

EXECUTIVE 5U MARY

2. Green infrastructure offers a lowest cost. highest reward strategy for dealing with the city's
aging infrastructure.

3. Green infrastructure creates jobs in response to issues of sufficient employment and living
wages in Detroit.

4. Detroit has a rich community of local leaders with knowledge of the capacity and needs of
neighborhoods.

The elements of our proposed green infrastructure initiative include the following:

An initial capital source sufficient to fund a larger array of green infrastructure installations
on properties throughout the City of Detroit.

A strategy for identifying the most beneficial areas for reduction in peak combined sewer
overflow in order to make the greatest economic and environmental impact.

- A strategy for assembling land for green infrastructure installations. primarily among the
many parcels already assembled in the land bank.

- The development of several engineering prototypes for green infrastructure designed for per-
mitting and priced for financing and contracting.

- The cultivation of a cohort of local, minority-owned small business enterprises equipped and
trained to perform contracts for green infrastructure installation.

- The establishment of a small business association (SBA) or micro-lending loan program to
provide working capital and equipment financing for small contractors who can efficiently
and economically execute contracts for green infrastructure.

The establishment of a protocol for measuring economic and environmental benefits of each
type of green infrastructure installation and translating these economies into aggregated
savings to the DWSD-R and GLWA for purpose of reinvestment.

- The development of a strategy for tax increment financing or other long-term investment
strategies for the purpose of monetizing cash flows for additional capital investments in
green infrastructure.

 

The Costs of Water Insecurity

The starting place for this project is a focus on Detroit. A primary feature of water insecurity

in Detroit is a profound problem with access to affordable drinking and wastewater services.
The expression of this access barrier is water shutoffs that have been implemented throughout
historically, but dramatically increased in and since 2014. The implementation of water shutoffs
in Detroit took place regardless of whether or not someone was able to pay. and collections
seem to have been targeted at residential accounts rather than commercial accounts that have
higher arrears.

The profound harm to an individual's physical and mental health is reflected in volumes of
personal accounts that have been shared. Additionally. because of the geographic patterns of
households who find drinking water and wastewater service unaffordable, there are clear ef-
fects at the neighborhood level.

We include this section because of the extreme and unique harms that arise from losing resi-
dential access to water service. In our conversations with community members it was clear that
the defense of water shutoffs was felt to be disconnected from empathy and understanding of
this harm-and therefore those defending the practice are viewed as disinterested in providing
relief to people who experience shutoffs. Additionally, there is clear disregard for appreciation
of the direct regional impacts of large scale water shutoffs and water unaffordability. We review
here research that details the deleterious impacts of water insecurity?in particular the inacces-
sibility of affordable drinking and wastewater services.

There is near-consensus among those whose water has been shutoff and people who advo-
cate and provide emergency services to them?people ?touched" by water shutoffs?that water
shutoffs are a crisis. However. among people who rationalize and argue there is a need for
residential water shutoffs there is a sense that shutoffs are routine ordinary practice and that
incentivizing bill collection is not a crisis?that the crisis is that system revenues have been too
low in recent decades.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 21

EXECUTIVE 5U MARY

Consistent and secure access to clean water that runs in your home is taken for granted by
many until there's a plumbing leak. It's common for homeowners to know?or learn quickly?
where the shutoff valve is for their home's sink or toilet in the event of a water leak. The rela-
tively minor inconv nience of the disconnection of a single fixture is, for many people, the only
experience of not having the water access one would like to have. For pe ple advantaged in this
way, decisions of whether and how long to wash vegetables and fruits are not considered a de-
cision?it's just a routine task. Decisions of whether to steam or fry potatoes is governed by the
preference of those you're coo ing for. If there's a scraped knee or a finger out it is washed with
soap and water: migraines or ankle sprains get ice and fevers are cooled with chilled water.
One can use the toilet whenever they need, wash their hands after, and waste can be quickly
ushered out of the home through sewer lines. These basics are not basic for people without
running clean water in their home. It is not controversial to characterize the large number of
water shutoffs as a crisis.

When adults or children are facing these challenges in their day-to-day lives they realize that
it?s not normal and that a vast majority of people do not face these struggles. These are the
material conditions of being othered and structurally marginalized. The relief of getting access
to water and sewer systems can be a force for structural belonging and inclusion. Our previous
recommendations can get us there.

Detroit's water shutoffs have been widespread and have raised the visibility of water afford-
ability problems across the country. In Detroit, at least 100,000 households have had water
shut off since 2014.53 While the annual number of shutoffs has decreased since 2014, in
March 2018, the Detroit Free Press reported that at least 17,000 households were at risk for
shutoffs.? Data suggests that in Detroit, as in other places across the country experiencing
water shutoffs?there is not a reticence to pay, but rather the problem is being unable to pay.
Records obtained by Bridge Magazine show that the number of residential shutoffs dropped
from 33,000 in 2014 to 23,000 in 2016 and increased again to 27,552 in 2016.55 Critics
have noted the way in which shutoff practices have targeted residential rather than commer-
cial account-holders, though arrears owed by commercial customers far exceed that of resi-
dential customers.515

Because water affordability is a growing problem across the US, water utilities use shutoffs

as an incentive for utility customers to bring their bills up-to-date. Shutoffs are not unique to
Detroit, but the number of shutoffs in the city is remarkably high and many of the strategies
implementing shutoffs are particularly harmful for household residents. In 2016, Baltimore
shutoff water to 1,400 accounts and 8,000 the year before. They enforce shutoffs if a bill falls
behind by $250 for two billing periods.57ln Baltimore, unlike Detroit, household residences
were not always the primary focus on shutoffs and utility customers with remarkably high past-
due amounts were primary targets and these were larger corporate accounts. Additionally, in
Baltimore there was a focus on collections from areas outside of the urban core where poverty
rates were lower. Water shutoffs cannot be defended as an incentive system for collection from
households who are unable to pay. This matter was not adequately addressed in Baltimore.
However, differences between implementation strategies are meaningful. In our conversations
the practice of shutoffs for people willing but not able to pay was a fundamental problem.

In addition, the conversations explained that the execution of shutoffs was deeply problematic
and existing avenues to appeal or delay shutoffs were practically unnavigable for people.

Across the US, there are similar problems with the use of shutoffs to increase system revenue
from people who cannot pay and a pattern of lacking mechanisms to appeal or suspend a shut-
off. ln the course of our research we did not find any appeal process that effectively prevented
a shutoff in the case of an inability to pay?although we did find allowance for establishing an
income-based repayments plans. However, these repayment plans do not resolve the problems
that arose in the course of our conversations. We noted accounts of many repayment plans
that were still not affordable for households and the water was shutoff after the first failed in-
stallment plan.

In May 2017, 40,000 Philadelphia households were eligible for water service disconnec-
tions.53 Their process provides two notices instructing the household to set up a payment
plan or else their water will be cut off. The main pipe to the house would be turned off and a
lock installed on the meter box.59 The work of the shutoff is done by a crew that will usually
identify those with thousands of dollars owed.60 They visit and do the shutoff at that loca-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 22

EXEC SD MARY

tion and then turn off other accounts in arrears in nearby locations, without discretion of the
amount owed.?1 This is thought to be a more efficient strategy and a crew can do 3,000
shutoffs with this method.62 In Seattle shutoffs are triggered at $300 past due and 52 days;
Phoenix is triggered at $75 and 30 days; Denver shutoffs are triggered at $125 and 50
days. Some states establish water utility consumer protections that delay a shutoff in the
case of sick children, seniors, or medical conditions.63

In many ways across the US there is a gap between standards set by international human
rights law and the function of fundamental resources to levers of opportunity. For example
housing, education, or food. Despite these persistent gaps it is useful to document these gaps
in the aspiration to meet universal goals outlined therein. In 2014, following an upsurge in
shutoffs during Detroit's bankruptcy negotiations, Catarina de Albuquerque, the United Nations
Special Rapporteur on the human right to water and sanitation, and Leilani Farha, the Special
Rapporteur on the right to adequate housing, visited Detroit. Albuquerque explained that ?it is
contrary to human rights to disconnect water from people who simply do not have the means
to pay their bills?? In the visits to states across the US, the UN Special Rapporteurs have con-
nected water insecurity to poverty and the right to clean water, sanitation and housing.65

Water shutoffs are a Collections system universally designed to incentivize users to pay bills.
Water and sewer utilities in the US are considered "natural monopolies" and rate setting is typ-
ically dominated by studies that measure the willingness of users to pay (WTP) for water. This
is mismatched to the empirical reality of entrenched poverty and inadequate federal, state, and
local funding for system operation, management, and upgrade. These studies have also shown
that lower income households have an elastic relationship to water rates?meaning that if there
are any changes in the rates these are the households most likely to use less. It is a perverse
system design to make the assumption that all users can pay and accommodate this reality by
explaining universal rate-setting designs that produce ?inelastic" relationships with low-income
users?rather than making accessibility to affordable water possible.

This section of the report details the wide-ranging negative outcomes produced by using
water shutoffs as a bill collection practice. Resorting to shutoffs is directly rooted in the
historical challenges faced by service providers in the regional and issues with the current
Detroit/G LWA agreement. described in Sections I and II, respectively. Not only are shutoffs
ineffective in recovering revenue, but they also endanger peoples? livelihood in a myriad of
ways. The burdens caused by water shutoffs are disproportionately endured by low-income
people and people of color.

The Health Costs of Shutoffs

Water shutoffs can threaten public health and exacerbate or deepen disparities in health out-
comes. Studies overwhelmingly confirm the links between water scarcity and a variety of health
issues.66 The link between living without access to drinking water and wastewater services and
vulnerability to a number of diseases and sicknesses is well-documented and studied with con-
sistent findings in places across the globe.

A primary risk associated with water scarcity is dehydration. It can have lasting effects on indi-
viduals' health and intensify other health problems. Moreover, poor hygiene resulting from lack
of water access can spread and create a variety of health problems, such as skin diseases and
gastrointestinal issues, as handwashing is the first line of defense against several communicable
diseases. Lacking water in the home can also negatively impact nutrition, as the preparation of
healthier foods is particularly dependent upon water.

There is little scholarly study of the effects of water shutoffs and public health in the context

of circumstances like those in Detroit. An abstract of an unreleased study by the Henry Ford
Health System's Global Health Initiative and Division of Infectious Disease offers a preliminary
analysis of the effects of shutoffs on public health in Detroit. The study examined 37,441 cases
of water-related illnesses at Henry Ford Hospital between January 2015 and February 2016.
Researchers found that patients with water-related illnesses were 1.48 times more likely to live
on a block that had experienced water shutoffs." The study was criticized due to its failure to
document causation and the geographic scale of its analysis. Lacking the full text, it is difficult
to appraise the methodology, however the findings are consistent given what we know about
the consequences of lacking access to water and sewer services. Furthermore, questions re-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 23

EXECUTIVE SUM MARY

garding the study's focus on correlation?not causation?and the geographic scale are unlikely
to prove a solid ground for contesting the study's findings. As presented in the abstract, finding
causation and geocoding and aggregating patient diagnoses at the census tract level are stan-
dard features of scholarly study in the field.

There are also a variety of mental health issues associated with water poverty, and water
deprivation can exacerbate existing mental health problems as well.63 For example, irregular
bathing and sanitation can create lasting feelings of shame and negatively affect people?s
sense of self-worth.

In these ways, among others, the suspension of residential drinking water and wastewater ser-
vices creates lasting mental and physical stress for individuals that has measurable effects on

the body. The "toxic stress? associated with the cascading effects of shutoffs must be consid-
ered when appraising the health costs of water deprivation.

A variety of studies have discussed the way in which toxic stress contributes to disparate
health outcomes for people?in particular poor people and people of color.69 The day-to-day
stressors of living as a person who is considered "other" and deprived of resources and
opportunities have demonstrable physiological effects. This chronic stress may be related to
experiencing micro-aggressions, persistent unemployment, residential segregation, and sub-
par educational options.

While studies have not explicitly examined the relationship between toxic stress and water scar-
city, the connection is plausible. This is especially considering the way in which water access is
a precondition for realization of other positive out-comes associated with toxic stress. For exam-
ple, maintaining family cohesion, housing, healthy food, and health.

Not only are marginalized groups disproportionately exposed to health risks, but they also often
have limited access to health care. These social determinants of health-that is, increased expo-
sure to risk and limited access to care?combine to perpetuate disparate outcomes.70

The wide-ranging health consequences of water deprivation endangers the well-being of indi-
viduals, families, and entire communities. Water access is a precondition of human health, and
depriving people of it constitutes a violation of basic human rights.

The Social Costs of Shutoffs

Water shutoffs also compound social problems caused by the systemic marginalization of
communities. We the People of Detroit's Community Research Collective has documented the
ways past due amounts on delinquent water bills are rolled over to liens on homes. This lien
can then combine with any other liens and therefore accelerate the process of home foreclo-
sure?'1 Foreclosures have a number of negative outcomes for households and communities at
large. Additionally, Child Protective Services (CPS) considers homes without access to running
water to be unfit environments for children, water shutoffs can break up families.? Whether or
not the child is actually removed from the house, living with the possibility of separation creates
harm and contributes to toxic stress.

If the problem is the ability to pay?not the willingness to pay?then the fundamental problem

is located in pricing structures and processes within the DWSD and GLWA. Under the cur-
rent GLWA agreement, DWSD-R customers bear the burden of costs associated with the
combined system by paying $750 per square acre of impervious surface in ?drainage
fees."73 One of this structural design flaw is that high fees actively threaten the fiscal
sustainability of Detroit churches and other important social institutions in the city.

Churches are especially burdened by drainage fees given the large quantity of impervious
surfaces they maintain and occupy?including the size of the church itself, parking lots large
enough to accommodate whole congregations, satellite community buildings, and even vacant
properties churches have acquired for neighborhood improvement projects. Detroiters feel that
these fees are arbitrary, particularly in the context of alternative reasonable approaches to de-
termining drainage costs.

Drainage fees and water shutoffs in Detroit offer a particularly glaring example of how problems
surrounding public infrastructure can actively disrupt communities. Shutoffs across the US
pose acute threats to human health and play a critical role in accelerating cascading effects
that erode historically marginalized communities, threatening the well-being of neighborhoods,

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 24

EXECUTIVE SUM MARY

families, and community spaces.

 

The Long History of Detroit?s Water and Sewerage District

Studies have found that people who experience affordability barriers problems to water and
sewer access are also areas where there are higher populations of people in poverty, disabled,
people of color. and higher enrollments in public service programs." These ?pockets of water
poverty" are consistently characterized in this way and the GLWA service area is no excep-
tionF?5 Areas of unaffordability throughout the GLWA service area are marked by these patterns,
including Detroit.?6

Race, physical ability, and socioeconomic status correlate with affordability access barriers to
water and sewer service security. These are also groups that are underrepresented in institu-
tions that determine rate structures and other procedures for utilities. These are also groups
that are on the lower side of disparities?including disparities in political power. These circum-
stances can create conditions for utilities to function with ostensibly neutral and objective
processes that are universal and ?color-blind" with the intention to not treat everyone the same.
These universal policies often, in execution, perpetuate disparities and end up providing greater
outcomes to the groups that are already better-served by dominant institutions. If GLWA and
DWSD pursues universal policy to treat municipal retail customers and system users with the
same brush, it will neglect important differences and fail to respond adequately and fairly to
the different ways some places and groups of people relate to their water and sewer services.
In an EPA study of 795 utilities, 228 offered some form of affordability plan?28 percent of the
sample.?7

By examining the history of water and sewerage services in Detroit, we can begin to under-
stand the way in which historical factors created structural problems for the regional utility
that disproportionately impacts othered groups?and in Detroit history demonstrates these
are largely poorer lower-wealth Black and African American people. These factors include
the racial dynamics of labor unions and within industrial firms, racially disparate application of
federal financial support for home mortgages and opportunities to move outside of areas of
the region and city with richer opportunity networks. Accordingly, inequity is baked into the
way the way the system functions today.

Our account of the history of the system contributes to an explanation of how water and
sewer systems were designed alongside and during profound periods of hostile and explicit
racial animus. While this animus may not animate and drive current policy the institutional
design and structural design reflects deeply racialized outcomes. To re-engineer these sys-
tems to promote inclusion there needs to be deliberate effort to understand the dynamics

of the creation of DWSD. While the details in this section are necessarily unique to Detroit,
the general principles are not. Many of the details unique to Detroit are the result of waves of
policy and development that shaped places?and water systems?throughout the US There is
a script for this past and there is a script to arrest the historical momentum inherited from a
troubled history.

The history of Detroit's water system begins in 1836, when the city purchased the Water
Works. For the next century, a booming, industrializing Detroit thrived, growing and expanding
into region surrounding the city. The Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD) system
and infrastructure grew along with it, serving as the backbone for regional expansion.

Suburbanization in the southeast Michigan region skyrocketed in the latter half of the twen-
tieth century, largely in response to urban economic decline and growing racial tensions.
Suburbanization in southeast Michigan offers a prime illustration of the migration of white
people from urban centers to more racially homogenous suburban regions?a trend that was
deepened through federal and local government policies that incentivized different groups to
move or stay in place.

Before suburban areas could be created and established, the DWSD would have to extend
the system infrastructure to those places. In this way Detroit ?subsidized" the suburbs. This
was brought up as another example of why Detroiters today are further alienated from GLWA's
control of the formerly Detroit asset. The city enabled the development of suburbs by building
the system?but during the bankruptcy process the city was deemed incapable of operating

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 25

the resource and, therefore, benefiting from the incredibly valuable asset. Between 1955 and
1973, 51 municipalities were added to Detroit's water system." While jobs moved to the sub-
urbs, in the city, population numbers plummeted, the job market shrank, and poverty and seg-
regation grew. Since development does not occur where infrastructure is unavailable. the very
existence of the suburbs depended on Detroit.

Today, the regional water system serves 3.8 million people? over one third of Michigan' 3 popu-
lation. Over 80 percent of people served by the system live outside of Detroit. 79

In 1977, Detroit was sued by the EPA for failing to meet the newly amended Clean Water Act.?
While many public systems found themselves struggling to meet newly imposed federal regu-
lations, Detroit's case was unusual in that the process to create a mutually agreeable compli-
ance schedule between EPA and DWSD was protracted over 37 years, during which DWSD
was ?overseen" by a federal judge. While this time proceeded, some Detroiters explained that
they felt this process distanced the influence of community members from the operation and
function of the DWSD even though the process was one designed to ensure water quality and
public health outcomes.

Another court decision that Detroiter's have described as unfair and arbitrary was the ?1999
Rate Settlement Agreement," which obliges Detroit to pay for 83 percent of the costs associat-
ed with several combined sewer overflow facilities, leaving the suburbs responsible for only 17
percent.? As detailed in Section II of this report, this unfair arrangement has resulted in consid-
erable expenses for Detroit and is still in place today. This agreement was part of the 37-year
court-mediated process. This agreement is not felt to have served the interests of Detroiters
and the DWSD relationship with suburban retail clients. It is characterized by many Detroiters
to be an arbitrary division of responsibility and an unjustified separation of components of a
system that services Detroit and suburban users."2

During the latter period of EPA oversight, the DWSD continued to accumulate debts to man-
age and operate the system. Some of this debt financed the needs to meet environmental
standards. However, some of the debt instruments were exceptionally and unnecessarily
risky?carrying fees and costs that were not associated with traditional bonds. In order to shift
to more secure bonds DWSD took out ?refinancing bonds? as a form of ?refinancing.? By 2012,
40 percent of DWSD revenue was going toward debt service. However, this is not to say that
these management decisions ruined and degraded the value of the DWSD system.

With more than 2,700 miles of transmission and distribution mains and 3,000 miles of sewage
collection pipes, the DWSD system is one of the city's most valuable assets.

 

 

Conclusion

The layers of social, political, and environmental issues that have contributed to the inequitable
distribution of power and resources in southeast Michigan demand a multidimensional response.
It is our intention that by offering a preliminary explanation of those issues, we can highlight a path
forward for Detroit that is socially, economically, and environmentally sustainable.

It is important to note that the solautions offered here are preliminary, and we hope that this
report will lay the groundwork for further efforts to realize water security and the benefits it pro-
vides to environmental quality and public health. in crafting and implementing multidimensional
solutions to Detroit?s problems, community support and input is crucial. As we expand the
base of participation in this project to expand and diversity, this report has openings for a range
of parties and interest groups to collaborate to develop strategies that foster lasting benefits
throughout the service area.

The report offers solutions that are tailored for Detroit but also responsive to nationwide pat-
terns of expanding water insecurity. With this design there is an emphasis on Detroit working
to better its regional area, but also to provide national leadership in effectively and innovatively
tacking the task of building water security and access.

The problems discussed in this report are not insoluble, and inaction is not an option. Choos-
ing not to respond to the pressing inequities at hand only passively enables the continuation
of today?s system, which, if left unchecked, will likely worsen existing problems: increasing
water and sewerage bills, contaminated water, and failing infrastructure accessibility, and

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

EXECUTIVE MARY

There is an
emphasis on
Detroit working
to better its
regional area,
but also to
provide national
leadership in
effectively and
innovatively
tackling the task
of building water
security and
access.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 26

EXEC UTIVE 5U MARY

correspondingly. poverty and insecurity.

We envision a different path forward for Detroit and the region?one where vital resources are
fairly distributed, where the region's residents can enjoy a dignified life in health communities,
and where lasting economic and social equality is fostered and nurtured.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesml Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 27

 

SECTION I

 

 

 

DWSD and the
Detroit Bankruptcy
Negotiations 28

Terms of the Lease and
Services Agreements 30

Points of Concern 32
Conclusion 38

INSTITUTIONAL
RELATIONSHIPS:
THE GREAT LAKES
WATER AUTHORITY

AND THE DETROIT
WATER AND SEWERAGE
DEPARTMENT

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 28

 

Institutional Relationships:
The Great Lakes Water Authority And The
Detroit Water And Sewerage Department

THE DETROIT WATER SYSTEM reached a point
of crisis in the period leading up to the bankruptcy,
but the issues which produced that crisis have a
long history. The restructuring of city's finances
and assets during the bankruptcy proceedings
could have offered an equitable path forward? one
that allowed for the fair distribution of power and
resources in the region. However, the current ar-
rangement perpetuates, rather than amends, these
deep-rooted, historical inequities governing the
distribution of water in Detroit.

During the bankruptcy negotiations, Detroit's
emergency management, under the leadership of
Kevyn Orr, eventually decided that DWSD would
be regionalized into a regional water authority. This
section discusses the details of that deal, showing
that by failing to ensure water affordability and
infrastructure improvements, as well as unfairly
allocating system costs to Detroit, the current
agreement codifies historical inequities.

Under the new regional system, the City of De-
troit has a service agreement and two lease
agreements (one for water services and one for
sewerage services) with the Great Lakes Water
Authority (GLWA), a public corporation created
in the fall of 2014 under a US Bankruptcy Court
order.1 GLWA is a quasi-governmental entity and
therefore does not require direct supervision by
locally elected officials.

The creation of the GLWA and the service and
lease agreements were politically expedient solu-
tions that were folded into the city's bankruptcy
proceedings. Examining the agreements that re-
sulted from these negotiations reveals significant
weaknesses that prevent the entire region from
realizing the equitable and sustainable system it
needs.

In this section, we first discuss the context of
folding the DWSD into the city's bankruptcy
proceedings, the primary antecedent of which is
the creation of the GLWA and, in turn, the city's
service and lease agreements. Second, we iden-
tify five key structural flaws in the GLWA service

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

and lease agreements. We argue that the current
agreement perpetuates, rather than amends, the

historical inequities governing the distribL?Ition of

vital resources in Detroit.

DWSD and the Detroit
Bankruptcy Negotiations

It has been argued that DWSD should not have
been included in the bankruptcy proceedings in
the first place. Bankruptcy law governing munici-
pal bankruptcy, unlike corporate bankruptcy, does
not involve the liquidation of municipal assets to
settle debts. Rather, in the context of municipal
bankruptcy, the scope of negotiations is limited to
annual revenue and expenses.

debt was included in the calculation

of Detroit?s total municipal debt, even though
DWSD served a region much greater than the

city of Detroit. Detroit was only a fraction of the
water department's service area, but its debt was
attributed to Detroit alone. In his 2013 analysis of
the calculation of Detroit's municipal debt, Wallace
Turbeville calls attention to the:

Additional $5.8 billion is debt [that is]
owed from the Water and Sewerage
Department, which serves in excess of
three million people all across southeast-
ern Michigan (roughly 40 percent of the
state ?5 population). The debt is payable
from the fees charged for that service
rather than from city resources. This is
debt of an enterprise that reaches far be-
yond the city and is not a direct obligation
of the city's budget. Thus, asserting that
the total bond amount is a liability of the
city is not appropriate.2

Despite arguments like this one, DWSD was in-
cluded in negotiations, and what should have been
one of Detroit?s greatest assets became one of its
biggest liabilities.

When the city was under state-imposed Emergen-
cy Management, several of the city's assets and

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 29

Image from the film I Do My Dying. Coutesy of Kate Levy, availabie onIIne at org

real estate?which could have laid the foundation
of future economic development and growth?were
considered properties whose value could be used
in creditor settlements. For example, Detroit's
waste collection and public lighting systems were
both privatized.3

Another example is the city's settlement with Syn-
cora?one of the city's bond insurers?whereby the
firm was granted development rights to just under
12 acres of east riverfront land, where it plans

to develop 2.2 million square feet of mixed-use
space.4 In total, Syncora claimed a $333 million
debt from Detroit, which was settled with $44.8
million in new debt, development rights to river-
front land, a long-term lease to operate the De-
troit-Windsor Tunnel, a long-term lease of Grand
Circus Park parking garage, and development
rights to the former Detroit Police Department
headquarters 250,000 square foot building.5 An-
other bond insurer, Financial Guaranty Insurance
Corporation, was granted development rights to
the Joe Lewis Arena, an area of about nine acres,
where the firm plans to build a hotel.6

The selling-off of municipal assets during the De-
troit bankruptcy negotiations speaks to the way in
which municipal fiscal distress can be beneficial to

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu mosesmi



 

I, 

the private sector, and to private sector developers
in particular.

The Detroit Water and Sewerage Department
constituted one of the city's most valuable assets,
and its fate was up for negotiation during the
bankruptcy proceedings. One possibility was to
privatize the utility. Another was to regionalize the
system, creating a new regional authority. This was
not a new idea?there had been efforts to transfer
the asset to a regional authority for some time.

One such attempt occurred in the state legislature
in 2010, when State Representative Kurt Heise
campaigned to put DWSD into regional man-
agement and operation, introducing House Bill
4112 in January 2011.7 Rep. Heise introduced an
equivalent bill, House Bill 4009,.3 in January 2013.
Neither of these legislative attempts to transfer
DWSD to a regional entity gathered enough inter-
est or support to move forward.

There was another attempt at regionalization in-
cluded in the EPA case proceedings. On March
27, 2013, the US District Court Judge Sean F.
Cox issued the court opinion and order ending
the protracted 1977 lawsuit between EPA and
DWSD.9 Cox had dismissed the city's earlier re-
quest to dismiss the suit and ordered a team of

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

administrators and officials to meet and create a
plan that would enable DWSD to meet the envi-
ronmental regulatory standards of the Clean Water
Act. This group came to be known as the ?Root
Cause Committee" and met between September
2011 and March 2013.10 In March 2013, the Root
Cause Committee submitted a final plan pro-
posing a new operational model for DWSD that
centered on the creation of a regional authority to
operate and manage 

In the case's closing proceedings in March 2013,
Cox found the Root Cause Committee?s sub-
missions adequate to end the suit, deeming the
201 1 administrative consent order a ?sufficient
mechanism to ensure sustained, compliance" with
federal environmental regulations.? However, on
the matter of creating a regional water authority,
the judge ordered that the court lacked the author-
ity to transfer DWSD assets to a regional authority
given its limited role in enabling DWSD to meet
federal compliance. The court's opinion explained,

Even if this Court had the authority to
order what is now being proposed, the
Court would not do so for multiple rea-
sons. Arguably, if the Court were to order
or approve the transfer of one of the City
of Detroit's largest assets, at this juncture,
that could potentially force the City into
bankruptcy or have other highly undesir-
able consequences. lf the City of Detroit
and/or its regional customer communities
wish to pursue the creation of a regional
authority, they may do so through the
political/legislative process.13

However, during the bankruptcy negotiations?
which began just weeks later?the possibility of
regionalization re-emerged. The prospect of trans-
ferring valuable water and sewerage utilities to
quasi-governmental authorities or private entities
is a national trend?one that follows an even longer
practice internationally. In 201 1, for example, Pon-
tiac, Michigan signed a service agreement which
transferred management of their water system to
United Water, a subsidiary of the global water firm
Suez.14 Similar institutional restructuring of public
water and sewerage systems has occurred in
many places, including Montana, Indiana, Arizona,
and Kentucky.15

Generating revenue for local governments by
transferring ownership of water and sewerage
infrastructure can be appealing for local govern-
ments?but it is equally, if not more, appealing for
the entities who benefit from control of the asset.
Nationally, the private sector value of structures
associated with water supply, sewage, waste
disposal, public highways, and streets are incred-
ibly high.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

At the time of Detroit's filing for bankruptcy,
DWSD constituted one of the city?s most valuable
assets. With Detroit and the DWSD in crisis, on
April 7, 2014 Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr put
out a Request for Information for private contrac-
tors interested in managing the system.16 While
Orr was receiving bids for privatizing the system
(leasing or selling), he was also negotiating with
suburban representatives about regionalizing
DWSD under a new regional authority.

Terms of the Lease and
Services Agreements

Ten months into bankruptcy negotiations, a plan
to transfer DWSD to a regional authority?the
newly created Great Lakes Water Authority?was
approved by the court. Leasing a system is one
option for transferring ownership to quasi-govern-
mental entities, as the prospect of an annual lease
payment can be appealing to local governments
struggling with local revenue crises.

Under the current agreement, GLWA leases De-
troit's suburban infrastructure for $50 million per
year for 40 years.? The agreement, finalized in
2015, requires that Detroit continue to manage
and maintain its municipal water system under a
new, limited entity: DWSD Retail (DWSD-R).

The lease payment?the $50 million annual pay-
ment, $13.5 million of which comes from Detroit,
as the payment is considered a ?common-to-all"
cost?is held in a fund belonging to the Authority.
That fund is used exclusively to maintain Detroit's
water and sewerage infrastructure, to pay debt
services associate with those improvements, or
to contribute to the common-to-all improvements
in the system.

Suburban customers?not users who live in sub-
urbs, but the suburbs themselves?are ?wholesale
customers" of GLWA, rather than being wholesale
customers of DWSD as was the case under the
previous arrangement. Suburban municipalities
purchase water and sewerage services at a whole-
sale rate and sell it to suburban residents with a
retail markup. Just as DWSD used to do, GLWA
sells water to suburban municipalities at a price
that strictly covers the cost-of-service. The sub-
urbs then add a retail price when selling to resi-
dents to cover their own costs. Each suburb sets
its own markup and keeps its own revenue.

GLWA also assumed responsibility for 
bonded indebtedness and committed to putting
$42.9 million dollars towards DWSD pensions
over the next eight years, as well as committing
to an additional $26 million annual payment as an
annual return on equity in recognition of the city?s
ownership of the system.18

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 31

 

Image from the film I Do My Dying. Coutesy of Kate Levy, available online at 

 

The Agreement also created a GLWA board,
which, in 2015, included six members: two ap-
pointed by the Detroit mayor, one each by Wayne,
Oakland, and Maycomb counties, and one by the
Governor. In November 2017, Flint rejoined GLWA
and the city?s agreement with GLWA states that
the governor's appointee for the board will resign
and the governor will appoint a Flint resident to the
seat.? Any major decision?including the appoint-
ment of the authority?s general manager; approval
of rates, fees, and charges; issuance of debt;
approval of budget; and adoption of procurement
policies?requires supermajority approval.

GLWA operates and manages suburban water
and sewer lines and as well common-to-all assets
within Detroit, like the wastewater treatment plants
and some 080 basins.20 These costs are shared
among all the regional municipal customers and
Detroit? more about how cost are shared with in
the agreement is detailed below.

The GLWA lease agreement also allocated $4.5
million in 2014-15 (and 0.5 percent of base bud-
geted operating revenues in years thereafter) to

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

fund a Water Residential Assistance Program
(WRAP). WRAP is intended to provide assistance
to indigent customers throughout the region, and
again, is described in more detail below.

The terms of the service agreement and two lease
agreements were decided behind closed doors
and without meaningful and sufficient consulta-
tion with Detroiters or their elected officials. As a
result, the process has received substantial criti-
cism, with critics citing the tension between emer-
gency management decision making, community
accountability, and democratic participation.

An analysis of the terms of the agreements reveals
that the creation of the Great Lakes Water Authority
(GLWA) and the resulting lease and service agree-
ments are clearly weighted against the interests of
Detroit. Instead of an ownership and governance
structure that clearly delineates responsibility and
authority, the void of representative democratic
practice created during the bankruptcy and emer-
gency management permitted a complex and in-
equitable transaction structure that has incredibly
important, long-term impacts on the city of Detroit.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 32

Points of Concern

The agreement poses serious
threats to the environmental. social, physical, and
economic well-being of Detroit and of Detroit's
residents. The following discussion outlines the
principal ways in which in this agreement puts the
city at a financial disadvantage and threatens De-
troiter's access to safe and affordable water and
sewerage services.

Primary concerns with the terms set by the lease
agreement fall into five categories:

1. The agreements are not based on an ade-
quate valuation of the DWSD system, and
correSpondingly, the annual lease payment
is inadequate.

2. The allocation of costs within the agree-
ments is unfairly burdensome for Detroit
and does not take regional inequities into
account

3. The current agreement inhibits the develop-
ment of a rate-setting structure that effec-
tively recovers costs while ensuring equity,
efficiency, and sustainability.

4. Several aspects of GLWA's governance
structure stifle Detroit's voice in making
decisions about its own system and make
it difficult for Detroit to rework the terms
agreement should conflict arise.

5. The agreement fails to' adequately address
the issue of water affordability and effec-
tively safeguard the human right to water
for residents across the region.



During the GLWA negotiations, Detroit?s water
and sewerage infrastructure was not properly
appraised, and the resulting lease payment is arbi-
trarily and detrimentally low. While the exact value
of the system will not be determined until it is offi-
ciallyI appraised, it is apparent that the $50 million
annual lease payment is insufficient.

Importantly, the $50 million annual lease payment
is a cost shared by all wholesale customers?in-
cluding DWSD-R. In FY 201 8, Detroit will contrib-
ute $13.5 million to the $50 million lease, leaving
the suburbs to cover only $36 million.21

The vast inadequacy of a $36 million lease
payment is especially clear when considering

the value of similar systems. The 201 '7 sale of
Aquarian Water to Eversource Energy offers a
helpful example. The $1.7 billion sale combined
Connecticut?s largest water and energy compa-
nies, and Eversource paid $880 million is cash for
Aquarian's system, also assuming $795 million in
Aquarian's debt.22

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

THE FLAWED
GLWA AGREEMENT

1161? a rate setting structure
i @at actively recovers costs whlle
surlng conservatlon and

 

Several aspects of c. LWA's govern a nce
structure sti?e volce In making

declslo ns about Its own system.

 

Detroit?s regional system is much larger than
Aquarian's, which serves 625,000 people.23
Detroit's system serves 6.25 times as many
people: about 3,900,000. As of 2016, the debt
carried on the Detroit system was much larger,
$5,548,324,503.00.? However, that debt breaks
down to $1,450.00 per user, as compared to
$1,272.00 per user in the Connecticut utility. So,
in other words, when adjusted for system size, the
debt burden is quite similar.

In the Connecticut example, $880,000,000

was paid to the Owner representing the market
value over the indebtedness, that?s $1,480.00
per user. Applying that same market analysis

to Detroit gives a market comparable value of
$5,385,600,000.00 over the indebtedness. That
is over $5 billion in equity that was not reflected in
the GLWA transaction

As we describe in the ?Recommendations" section
of this report, imputing a reasonable lease rate of
interest to the rental structure, Detroit should be

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 33

paid four percent annual interest on the value of
the asset, or $215.4 million per year. That is 5.8
times what it is currently being paid.

The fact that negotiations led to a lease and not
an outright sale of the infrastructure allowed the
lease payment cost. While
a sale Would have required a comprehensive
assessment of the asset?s value, negotiating a
lease payment did not. The circumstances of the
creation of the regional water authority?namely,
that Detroit was in the midst of a municipal bank-
ruptcy and under emergency management?gave
rise to a transaction that would not have occurred
under normal circumstances and is, correspond-
ingly, blatantly inequitable.

This issue is at the center of the inequities with
the agreement. In order for DWSD to be able

to supply affordable, high quality water to all its
customers, the annual lease payment must reflect
the value of the system as it is assessed through
proper review. This is the fundamental issue with
the agreement as it stands today, and until it is ad-
dressed, a truly just and sustainable water system
in Southeast Michigan cannot exist.

Cost allocations

Additionally, the allocation of costs within the
agreement is unfairly burdensome for Detroit and
does not take regional inequities into account.
Under the lease agreement, some costs of operat-
ing and improving the regional system are consid-
ered ?common-to-all," meaning that DWSD-R and
wholesale customers contribute to them, while
others are ?Detroit-only" or "customer speci?c."
Under the currently system, the ways costs are
allocated within these classes is inequitable to De-
troit and endangers the sustainability of its water
and sewerage infrastructure.

For example, under the current arrangement, the
$50 million/year lease payment is a common-to-all,
meaning that Detroit contributes $13.6 million to
the lease payment on its own system. The pro-
posed Water Residential Affordability Program
(WRAP) is also a common-to-all cost.

On the other hand, substantial costs associated
with the combined sewage system are largely left
to Detroit.

The enormous expense of the combined sew-
age system is rooted in with the way in which
sustained historical neglect of necessary capital
improvements to Detroit?s infrastructure has left
the city with an antiquated combined sewer sys-
tem (088). In a combined sewer system, sew-
age, greywater, and stormwater all mix within the
same system and are all transported to the same
wastewater treatment plants. This type of sew-
erage system is no longer built, and converting a

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi

combined sewer into a separate sanitary sewer-in
which stormwater is separated from sewage and
greywater treatment?is exceptionally expensive.
This is one of the reasons why over 800 communi-
ties in the United States continue to depend upon
combined sewerage systems.25

In the regions, 3,800 miles of sewer are in Detroit
and 8,770 miles in suburban areas. Of the 8,770
miles of suburban sewer, only 970 miles are com-
bined sewer systems, while the vast majority of
Detroit's sewer is combined sewer.26

The primary issue with CSS is environmental risk
of combined sewage overflows (080) and the
substantial costs of preventing those overflows.
During wet weather, the sewerage system takes
in an increased volume of stormwater, in addition
to greywater and sewage. This additional intake of
stormwater can make the volume of water exceed
the system's capacity. In these cases, there is a
risk for the sewers to overflow, and for the over-
flow?containing sewage and industrial waste?to
be discharged directly into freshwater. These
overflows present acute environmental and public
health threats, and municipalities with combined
sewer systems are required by the EPA to take
protective measures to avoid CSOs?or else incur
heavy financial penalties. These preventative initia-
tives can take the form of either ?grey" or ?green"
080 management.27

The measures required by the EPA are incredibly
costly, and under the current agreement, those
costs are inequitably allocated to Detroit. The
current agreement requires that Detroit covers

83 percent of the costs associated with several

of the grey CSOs leased by the regional system,
while the wholesale customers cover only 17
percent.? There is one exception? The Belle Isle
CSO Retention Basin? which is paid for by De-
troit exclusively. This 83/17 split is rooted in the
unfair and non-transparent ?1999 Rate Settlement
Agreement,? implemented while DWSD was under
federal oversight.?

Additionally, Detroit is required to cover 83 per-
cent of the costs of future grey CSO management
facilities which are deemed to ?primarily serve De-
troit"? a distinction which is unclear considering
that the systems are, literally, interconnected.so In
addition to covering 83 percent of the costs with
existing grey 030 control facilities and perhaps
that of new facilities, Detroit is also left to cover
83 percent of the expenses associated with the
construction of new green 080 control systems.31
The new facilities are hugely expensive, with those
initiatives currently planning costing over $50
million in capital investment over the next four
years.32 Those costs will likely increase over the
course of the lease, given increased pressure on

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 34

the system due to climate change, as well as con-
tinued deterioration of Detroit?s system.

Leaving Detroit responsible for 83 percent of
080 costs is inequitable for a variety of reasons.
The logic behind the 83/17 split is likely rooted in
the fact that most of the combined sewage system
is in Detroit; however, though Detroit does contain
the majority of the combined sewage system, the
system is a regional responsibility.

One reason for this is that Detroit acts as the
backbone of the region, housing highways, univer-
sities, hospitals, and governmental buildings that
are used by people throughout Southeast Mich-
igan. Much of the drainage entering the system?
and contributing to 0805? is related to the large
impervious services required for those amenities.
The costs pertaining to other entities that serve
the region but are located in Detroit, such as the
wastewater treatment plants are common-to-all;
this ought to be the case for (380 costs as well.

Additionally, the fact that Detroit has an antiquated
system such is because of the sustained historical
neglect of Detroit?s system, which is a product of
the way in which Detroit enabled suburban growth,
described in Section I. Thus, the costs associated
with maintaining the city's aging infrastructure are
not the responsibility of the Detroit alone.

The consequences of the inequitable allocation of
costs under the current agreement are detrimental
to the well-being of Detroit?s system and the fiscal
well-being of Detroit. To cover the costs of 080
management, the city is forced to charge high
unmetered drainage fees to DWSD-R customers.
Currently, DWSD-R customers pay a fee
of $750 per impervious acre.33 These drainage
fees are not only burdensome for Detroiters, but
as described in Section actively threaten the
livelihood of community spaces; the existence of
many Detroit churches, for example, is endangered
due to their inability to afford the fees.34

Under the current agreement, costs?particularly
the lease payment and 080 costs?are allocated
in unfair ways, which does not take into account
the ways that historic divestment and austerity has
created lasting expenses associated with Detroit's
crumbling infrastructure. The sharing of costs
under the GLWA agreement could have provided
a vehicle to amending the region's unfair history,
but rather, given the current structures for sharing
costs, perpetuates it.

Rate structure

Pricing policies are a key component in deter-
mining utility provider's cash flow, and what is
factored into the calibration of rates plays a key

role in determining equity. However, the current
agreement inhibits the develop-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

ment of a rate-setting structure that effectively
recovers costs, while ensuring equity, efficiency,
and sustainability.35

Notably, GLWA inherited DWSD's historic
rate-setting structure. As evidenced by the
DWSD's massive debt and use of shutoffs in its
final years, that rate-setting structure failed to ef-
fectively recover costs and ensure the human right
to water. With the creation of the GLWA, those
rate-setting structures were not reconsidered.

Through the lease agreement, GLWA has ultimate
authority to establish rates for both Retail and
Wholesale customers.36 However, DWSD-R
assumes this responsibility, along with billing and
collections as detailed in the services agreement,
but is ultimately subject to GLWA's approval.37
Notably, DWSD-R will be subject to the same rate
increases as other wholesale customers; custom-
ers with greater or similar economic conditions
than Detroit.33 On the other hand, there are sub-
urban wholesale customers that could reasonably
sustain a rate increase, especially if there was in
effective affordability plan in place to serve the
needs of low-income people in those jurisdictions.
After all, GLWA's base water rates, inherited from
DWSD, are low as compared to similar places.

Importantly, the agreement contains obstacles to
fundamentally reconsidering rate-setting
structure, which would be required for effective

cost-recovery, as well as for guaranteeing afford-
ability, conversation, and economic development.

The four percent cap on rate increases under
the current agreement is one of these. The cur-
rent agreement sets a rate increase cap of four
percent for the first 10 years of the 40-year
lease agreement?9 Depending upon the future
decisions and practices of the GLWA, the four
percent cap could present significant limitations
recovering costs, and in particular, for funding a
water affordability program and improvements on
Detroit?s urban infrastructure.

Note that the percent cap on rate increases has a
notable exception. The rate increase can exceed
four percent if the increase is required to meet
legal obligations GLWA and DWSD-R.40 Costs
associated with meeting the terms of the long-term
compliance schedule between DWSD and EPA
are quite high?perhaps as high as $1 billion.41
Given the likelihood of increased regulatory issues
with the regional water infrastructure, it is probable
that rates will likely increase beyond four percent,
which may pose threats for affordability in low-in-
come communities.

At the same time, the four percent cap may also
hamper the ability to fund large-scale improve-
ments on Detroit?s urban infrastructure: the most
antiquated in the region. Because GLWA and

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 35

DWSD-R plans together to address capital needs
of their shared system, a four percent cap on other
wholesale customers can limit the amounts avail-
able to meet the needs. Lacking funds for large-
scale improvements is particularly burdensome

for Detroit, as their urban infrastructure is in most
need of improvement. Failing to improve Detroit's
infrastructure not only further marginalizes the city,
but also compromises the sustainability of the
entire regional system.

Additionally, the four percent rate cap is based
upon an insufficient valuation of the true costs

of water affordability. Notably, the cap factors in
the costs associated with the currently-in-place
Water Residential Assistance Program 
As is empirically evident in Detroit, water poverty
persists despite the WRAP program. Not only is
the WRAP plan inadequate to meet the needs of
Detroiters, it's inadequate to meet the needs of
struggling customers across the region. The costs
for an effective program well exceed the figure
used to determine the asserted adequacy of the
four percent rate cap. This point is discussed par-
ticularly at the latter part of this section, as well as
Recommendation 5 in this report.

GLWA rate-setting structure ought to be recon-
figured to include the full costs of necessary im-
provements to the infrastructure that needs it most
as well as a robust affordability plan. After all, the
core purpose of the utility is to deliver palpable
water to all customers in the service area and dis-
charging and treat sewage from Customers in ser-
vice area, while also meeting legal obligations and
assuring the fulfillment of the human right to water.
Figuring these elements into the cost-of-service
model, and relatedly, rate-setting structures, may
result in increases above or below four percent,
which may vary based on resources available from
wholesale customers. Of course, any increase

in water rates must be accompanied by a robust
water affordability plan.

Governance

Several aspects of GLWA's governance structure
stifle Detroit's voice in making decisions about its
own system.

One issue is that the structure of the GLWA board
limits the power of Detroit in making decisions
about its own system. As previously mentioned,
the board includes two members appointed by
the Detroit mayor, one member each by Wayne,
Oakland, and Maycomb counties, one appointed
by the Governor who will resign and be replaced
by a Flint resident.? A supermajority is required
for all major decisions, including the appointment
of the authority's manager; approval of rates, fees,
and charges; issuance of debt; approval of annual

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

operating budgets; and approval of capital im-
provement plans.?4

It could be argued that Detroit has "more" influ-
ence on the board relative to other whole sale
customers based upon two seats designated for
mayoral appointments. However, with only six
seats and five votes required to approve ianLiential
actions, the degree of the city's influence on board
decisions is moderated. As these non-Detroit
parties' interests are more closely aligned with
each other and much less inclined to address the
historic inequities represented by the existing infra-
structure system, Detroit's influence in the GLWA
is greatly diminished.

To underscore the severity of the imbalance of

the GLWA board, one only has to look at the
September 20, 2017 draft of the GLWA "One
Water" partnership agreement.45 The partnership
appears to create a second governance structure
comprised of 84 named municipalities, the Great
Lakes Water Authority, the city of Detroit, the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, the
Southeast Michigan Council of Governments, and
consultants representing any of those members.

The responsibilities of the partnership closely par-
allel those of GLWA board. Among the common
goals of the partnership is a commitment to work
toward consensus on each issue. Depending on
how I'most of the membership" is defined, this

is remarkable. A majority vote?whether super or
simple majority strengthens more homogeneous
suburban interests with the representation of
smaller concerns relevant to the city of Detroit and
Flint. This parallel governance structure further di-
lutes the voice of DWSD, Detroit, and Flint which
comprise only a tiny fraction of the parties at the
table. The regional authority has over eighty voices
behind it, while only a few representatives speak
to the needs of Detroiters.

This echoes the long history of Detroit being
marginalized in their influence of decisions about
a system designed, maintained, and expanded
by the city. The board structure, as well as ex-
tra-board organizations such as the One Water
Partnership, stifle Detroit?s influence in an envi-
ronment that has already devalued their asset
and investment.

The limitation of Detroit's voice in the GLWA
board and extra-board organizations echoes the
trend of limitations on democratic representation
during the bankruptcy process. In fact, although
the city's bankruptcy plan was approved by the
federal court, the city's autonomy over its own
finances has yet to be returned to the city three
years after its bankruptcy process. The Michigan
State Treasury?s Financial Review Commission
must approve city budgets and contracts.? Al-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 36

though the city?s subjection to this Commission
could come to a conclusion as early as March

or April 2018, the agency that the mayor could
exercise or the agency that could be exercised
by city representatives on GLWA board is under-
standably limited. Currently, these are very official
inhibitions placed on city agency, and even after
the official inhibitions are dissolved, it's feasible
to imagine a persistent trail of policies left in the
wake of the Commission?s suppression of De-
troit's democratic voice.

Another issue with the agreement's governance
structure pertains to the consequences of Detroit
either failing to meet the terms of the agreement
or opting to withdraw from the authority. It is very
possible that Detroit will be unable to meet its
obligations under the GLWA agreement, espe-
cially given the lack of clarity in the way costs
with be shared in the system. This is in part due
to the way in which within the lease and ser-
vices agreements, the GLWA possess important
power?but it does not lease the entire infrastruc-
ture system within the geographic boundaries

of the city. Rather, the documents outline what
has become an entirely artificial division between
what ?parts" of the infrastructure are Detroit's
and which parts are GLWA?from the size of
pipes to vehicles and office space.

Also described in these documents are the com-
plexities of how this distinction will be managed.
Detroit?s parts and GLWA's parts are associated
with different costs and different upgrade proj-
ects. However, there is little detail on how these
responsibilities will be distributed between Detroit
and GLWA. CSO costs are a notable exception.
And, more importantly, there is little specification
on how decisions regarding these plans will be
made. It appears that a central point of making
these distinctions will come through 
obligation to submit a budget and capital improve-
ment plan to GLWA every year." The documents
contemplate the need for sharing and coordinating
efforts to share obligations to what is, in effect, a
single system. However, it seems that concretized
decisions on how to share these duties will be run
through GLWA board decision-making, a mecha-
nism wherein Detroit's voice is severely limited.

The artificial division of what is a single system can
create significant difficulties for DWSD-R to meet
its obligations under its services agreement with
GLWA. For example, if GLWA increases rates then
DWSD-R along with other customers will have
new revenue requirements to meet. For DWSD-R
there are these increased revenue requirements,
but also there is the variety of unknown additional
costs for management of its own local system?a
system that is the same as that of the GLWA de-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

spite however detailed the agreements? lists of
specific assets are. One issue, for example, is the
lack of transparency about the ways that costs
associated with capital improvement plans or long-
term compliance schedules will be shared.

Barriers to Detroit meeting its obligations under
the lease are compounded by the city?s poor cred-
it ratings, and correspondingly, inflated costs for
debt service. Additionally, the utility has substantial
challenges in recovering revenues, given the high
proportion of low-income people in the DWSD-R
service area.

The terms of the agreement are incredibly unfa-
vorable for Detroit should the city fail to meet the
terms of the agreement. DWSD-R can lose its
ability to set rates, issue bills, or establish collec-
tion practices, and instead GLWA could take over
those duties.?8 Additionally, should conflict arise
between GLWA and DWSD-R, dispute resolution
occurs through an arbitration process that blocks
access to courts.49 And if the city opts to withdraw
from the Authority, Detroit can forego future lease
payments.50 As the agreement states, that any
such withdrawal will not terminate this Lease or
affect the Assignment and Transfer, or affect the
Revenues collected by the Authority."51

Ultimately, the agreement limits Detroit's agency,
which is a serious concern considering how unfa-
vorable the agreement is for the city. Leases ought
to reflect clear and fair contractual agreements.

In the case of the agreement, the
agreements more closely resemble an unfair sale.
In fact, as states in the agreement, ?Notwithstand-
ing the foregoing, this Lease shall constitute a bill
of sale from the City to the Authority pursuant to
which the city conveys all of its right, title and inter-
est in and to the personal property that is part of
the leased water facilities."52

DWSD is not like other GLWA wholesale custom-
ers and the governance structure and the relation-
ship between the city and the GLWA should re-
flect that. Not only did the city own and create the
asset, the city was also the regional hub for eco-
nomic and social development; the agreement's
governance structure ought to reflect that.

Affordability programs

The current water affordability plan in Detroit

is the Water Residential Assistance Program
(WRAP),which provides funds to subsidize re-
payment on overdue accounts. 53 Under WRAP,
which began operating in Detroit in March 2016,
DWSD customers at or below 150 percent of the
federal poverty line are eligible to receive a $25
bill credit and have their debt frozen for
12 months. Customers who successfully make
payments for one year are then eligible

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 37

for a $700 credit towards their debts. Additional-
ly, customers exceeding 120 percent of average
household water consumption can receive a free
home water conservation audit and, based on
the audit, may receive up to $1,000 for repairs.
Customers must have a delinquent bill or shutoff
status to be eligible.

DWSD did not appear to anticipate the assis-
tance program?s weaknesses. DWSD director
Gary Brown insisted that WRAP is ?a very robust,
comprehensive program that addresses all of the
issues We seen in the past that causes people to
fall out of a plan." However, by August 201 6, just
five months into the assistance plan?s implemen-
tation, program funds ran dry, and customers who
sought assistance were turned away.54 In 2017,
out of 18,749 completed pre-applications, only
6,402 households were enrolled.55

Activists and experts in affordable utilities point out
that the plan is markedly inadequate and fails to
address the root issues of water affordability and
prevent shutoffs. It is important to note that WRAP
is an assistance rather than affordability plan; it of-
fers a short-term, insufficient solution for residents
whose bills are simply unaffordable.

As described by Lynne Kaucheck, a senior orga?
nizer for Food Water Watch, ?These assistance
programs are not helpful for people who have real,
long-term affordability These programs
are going to continue to fail because it?s not really
addressing the problem."56 The sheer degree of
shutoffs following the implementation of the plan
also speaks to its inability to address the issue of
water unaffordability. People want to pay their bills,
and they want to have access to water, and a true
affordability plan would make this possible.

In 2005, Roger Colton worked with Michigan
Welfare Rights Organization (MWRO) and
DWSD to design a Water Affordability Plan
Colton?s WAP proposed a rate struc-
ture based on DWSD users' income (we propose
a regional version of this plan in Section IV of this
report). Income-based plans address the root
causes of unaffordability and ensure that water
and sewerage rates do not exceed an affordable
burden. The plan also recommended abolishing
late payment fees and educating residents about
water conservation.

Economist and utility services expert Roger
Colton has explained that the issue of water af-
fordability affects everyone, not only those who
are unable to pay:

Providing water affordability assistance
is critically important from everyone's
perspective. From the customer's per-
spective, having affordable water often is
the primary factor that determines such

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

fundamental issues as whether someone
can stay in their home or retain custody of
their children. From the water provider's
perspective, it makes little sense to issue
bills that people cannot afford to pay. In
such circumstances billed revenue does
not translate into collected revenue. The
water provider ends up spending more
and more money in a less and less suc-
cessful effort to collect its bills. From a
community?s perspective, unaffordable
water service drives up health care costs
(borne by everyone), impedes childhood
education thus continuing the cycle of
poverty), destabilizes neighborhoods,
and makes communities less competitive
to businesses seeking places to locate.
From an environmental perspective,
unaffordable water service frequently

(if not generally) prevents local govern-
ments from investing in the infrastructure
improvements to meet clean water ob-
jectives. As can be seen, unaffordable
water is not simply a poverty issue. It is
a health care issue, a housing issue, an
education issue, a business development
issue, an environmental issue. Any rea-
sonable local official must recognize that
unaffordable water service is a problem
that mustl be addressed and resolved.58

Additionally, as Colton's 2005 Water Affordability
Program (WAP) states:

In the energy arena, ample research has
found that many low~income customers
pay their home energy bills at significant
personal sacrifice to themselves and the
members of their households. Low-in~
come consumers may forego buying
medicine, food, insurance, and dental
care. Low-income consumers have been
reported to heat their homes with ?alter-
native fuels including used tires, news-
papers, clothing and furniture in order
to pay for their heating bill. Low-income
consumers have been reported to pawn
their possessions, abandon their homes
for days or weeks at a time, and reduce
their heating to unsafe levels in order to
pay their heating bills. These consumers
are no less ?payment troubled" than their
counterparts who simply do not pay their
bills. The same results would arise with
water bills. In sum, payment troubles are
a manifestation of the affordability prob-
lem. They are not the problem itself.59

Residents are not choosing to fall behind on
payments or to go without water. Bills are simply
unfeasible for low-income Detroit residents to pay.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 38

 failure to address the underlying issue of
water affordability creates a system that is perpet-
ually in crisis. The creation of the GLWA thus failed
to address the crucial issues of water affordability in
Detroit by providing an underfunded regional assis-
tance, rather than affordability, program. Detroit lost
its most valuable asset and failed to secure afford-
able water for its residents.

Conclusion

The current GLWA lease and services agreements
with DWSD and other related agreements with
DWSD that preceded the GLWA contains multiple
areas for concern. The cluster of agreements have
legally installed structural constraints on GLWA
and DWSD. The design process and deliberation
on terms have not been adequately transparent or
created in a context of public debate and influence.
The features are of great consequence for DWSD
because of the consequences of failure to meet any
of its obligations. Desgins for obligations
are problematic and can be argued to be difficult
for DWSD to meet. Some people have discussed
the documents design to ?set Detroit up for failure.?
In identifying key structural design flaws in this
section, we are able to locate structural barriers for
DWSD and its customers to maintain even a mod-
icum of local control and benefit from the regional
asset

For example, the cost sharing and rate structure do
not allow for many probable scenarios that DWSD
could experience For example, the terms also are
not designed to account for a robust affordability
program that addresses long-term revenue chal-
lenges for Detroit residents that are unable?not
unwilling?to pay. The problem of the system pro-
viding water access, environmental quality, and
public health throughout the region is a profound
problem and inhibits the mission of 
also inhibits the mission of the GLWA. These struc-
tural features between DWSD and GLWA are also
relevant for other retail customers in the regional
service area. More prosperous and other struggling
retail customers should also inspect and critically
appraise their agreements with GLWA. Some have
suggested that the design of GLWA is to consol-
idate its unilateral control of the regional system.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu mosesmi

At this stage of analysis, the intention of GLWA

is not clear. However, structural flaws and severe
consequences of retail customers to meet GLWA
service agreements should be rigorously reviewed
and the decision making around these agreements
should be made available for such review.

It is likely that the lease payment is based upon a
deflated value of the DWSD system. It is not at all
clear that the amount of the lease payment was
tied to a consideration of the value of the system.
This is an area for concern since the lease pay-
ment constitute an important part of ca-
pacity to meet its obligations under the agreement.
The lease payment is also an important part of
other retail customers to structure their rate struc-
ture and fulfill their missions to ensure high-quality
drinking water and adequate wastewater services
and ensure their system?s contribution to regional
environmental quality and public health.

Second, the way in which costs are allocated
within the lease agreement is not clear. In this lack
of clarity and transparency there is limited room
for analysis. However, the separation is seen to be
arbitrary and unfair by institutions and residents
throughout Detroit. Designing a separation of
operation, management, and maintenance tasks
across the regional system and the portion of the
system within Detroit is exceptionally complex and
the rationale of this separation is unclear. This is
particularly evident in the way in which the lease
payment is common-to-all, while costs pertaining
to 030 management are not.

Thirdly, the agreement contains provisions which
inhibit the development of a rate and pricing struc-
ture that ensures equity, sustainability, and effi-
ciency. Rates may need to increase by more than
four percent (the limitation imposed by the 
DWSD agreements) to provide for these areas.
Again, in this case, the rationale of the 4 percent
cap is not clear.

Fourth, the governance structure of the GLWA
board limits the influence of Detroit and ability to
influence decisions about its own system. Flaws
within the governance of GLWA are also of conse-
quence to other smaller financially struggling cities
within the region.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

39

 

 

 

SECTION II

 

Moratorium on Residential
Water Shutoffs and Redesign
Decision Making Regarding
Water Shutoffs 41

Appraise the Annual Lease
Payment 42

Consider Legislative
Reforms 43

Revise Terms of
Relevant Agreements 45

Design and Implement
a Comprehensive Water
Affordability Plan 47

Incorporate Basic Consumer
Protections into GLWA
Policies 50

Implement Green
Infrastructure 

RECOMMENDATIONS

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 

 

Recommendations

DETROIT HAS THE POTENTIAL to become a na-
tional leader in the primary infrastructure challenge
of the 21 st. century: securing economic and phys-
ical access to clean and safe water and sanitation
services. Water insecurity is experienced across
the country?the pervasiveness of the problem indi-
cates a systematic failure. Water access includes
service that is affordable, physically accessible,
quality and safe drinking water, and wastewater
services that promotes environmental quality and
public health. These are challenge through the
country and within the GLWA service area.

The previous section presented a structural analy-
sis of challenges that face DWSD and GLWA and
identified specific areas of concern. Here we detail
the start of strategies that could address those
systemic design flaws and can promote improved
water access in Detroit and throughout the GLWA
service area.

There is a vast array of strategies and solutions
that could be implemented to advance water
access. There are strategies that enjoy strong

or weaker political will. Strategies have to be
designed, aligned and implemented such that a
balance is struck between pragmatism and larger
scale structural change. An additional factor that
should ultimately determine which strategies to
implement and their design should be ensuring
that reaching water access is also advancing the
broader need for social equity.

Some of the following recommendations will have
far-reaching immediate benefits for people lacking
basic access to in-home clean water and sanita-
tion, while others will have benefits in the long-
term, laying the groundwork for the development of
resilient systems, protected against economic and
climactic risks. No singular strategy can respond
to Detroit?s complex problems, and even these six
constitute a preliminary list, offering a catalyst for
further development, study, and participation.

These recommendations support solutions crafted
by local experts, including community leaders,
activists, and academics. They have been an in-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

credibly valuable resource that has too often been
neglected in the creation of actionable policies.
Correspondingly, meaningful relationships with
community stakeholders should be integrated into
the development and implementation of these

strategies.

Moratorium on Residential Water

Shutoffs and Redesign Decision
Making Regarding Water Shutoffs

 

Rationale

We propose instituting an immediate moratori-

um on residential water shutoffs until such time
adequate processes are established that ensure
a shutoff is not implemented when a person is
unable to pay. The moratorium should also be in
place until there is a clear sufficient process to dis-
tinguish between accounts that are able or unable
to pay. As part of this strategy and generally there
needs to be a form of due process in the course
of a water shutoff. Processes should enable effec-
tive and easily navigable processes to challenge
to shutoff orders and access financial support
programs. This strategy will be greatly eased with
the recommendation of designing a robust and
effective water affordability program which is im-
mediately follows here. During of the period of that
moratorium, it is essential for GLWA, DWSD, and
other service providers to seriously consider the
objections raised by the Detroit community and
international agencies and implement long-term,
dramatic changes to service disconnection prac-
tices. Any policies that pursue service disconnec-
tion to incentivize payment should be designed to
apply only to situations in which there is an ability
and unwillingness to pay. This will disqualify the
vast majority of service disconnections.

Implementation

A prohibition on shutoffs in the situation of inability
to pay can be implemented by either reframing GL-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 41

WA's customer service policies. Alternatively, this
protection can be realized by implementing state
or national legislative reforms that forbid water

shutoffs when the inability to pay is documented.

Implementing an effective affordability plan and
certain customer protections?described later
in this Section?should eliminate the need for
punitive collection practices in the first place.
However, in light of the massive impact of shut-
offs on residents in Detroit, it is important to
decisively and permanently eliminate shutoffs
until more well-designed consumer protection
measures are in place.

Appraise the Annual Lease Payment

Rationale

It is possible that the $50 million/year annual lease
payment and other payments made to Detroit and
DWSD-R do not adequately reflect the value of
the system GLWA operates and manages. The
payment is considered a common-to-all cost, De-
troit contributes to the lease on its own system.
In fiscal year 2018, Detroit will contribute $13.6
million to the lease on its own system.? It is not
entirely clear if Detroit's $13.6 million is intended
to cover services and operations to GLWA.

THE FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF CALCULATING ACTUAL MARKET
VALUE OF THE REGIONAL WATER SEWER INFRASTRUCTURE

IMPI IS . -. [if



 

DEBT '5 i . xb7'u

TOTAI st-
VAI UE 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi



3 I - Iu",
A -.

1,950
employees

I

3.9 million
people

$5.5 billion

 

$5.5 billion

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

42

Implementation

We recommend that rationale and calculation of
the GLWA lease payment be made available for
public review. Additionally, a comprehensive ap-
praisal of the regional system may be warranted
to assess the degree to which the lease payment
adequately reflects the value of the asset.

This is a non-trivial part of our recommenda-
tions?enabling public disclosure of the rationale
and basis of calculation of the lease payment is
necessary. The circumstances of the DWSD sys-
tem and its relationships to GLWA, and GLWA
itself, are not those of a transaction between a
public system and an investor owned utility. This
complicates a process of valuation. Additionally,
the process of valuation of water and sewer sys-
tems is exceptionally complicated and techniques
of valuation of drinking and wastewater systems
is not well researched or publicly available. Not
only would a valuation need to be done, but the
valuation process itself would need to be carefully
considered and be made transparent and subject-
ed to a period of public comment and expert
review.

This does not require abandoning the agree-
ment. Rather, the agreement can be reworked
with an aimed at achieving lasting regional
equity. Any renegotiation process of the lease
payment or other provisions in the lease and
services agreements ought to be transparent,
fair and balanced, evidence-based, and period-

Consider Legislative Reforms

Rationale

Plans for a more equitable and sustainable
water and sewerage system rests on the firm
conviction that every person has the right to
safe, affordable, and accessible water. This
tenant should be reflected in law. In 2012,
California became the first state to legislatively
recognize the human right to water by requiring
that every person has the right to ?safe, clean,
affordable, and accessible water" for consumption
and sanitation.?51

Current legislation does not adequately protect
the fundamental human right to water. Effective
legislation would safeguard those rights. In order
to ensure durable and widespread access to
drinking and wastewater services, there is a need
for policy that safeguards access to clean, afford-
able water and clean surface water. These general
principles and aspirations are reflected in different
ways in the following examples.

While most of these recommendations would be

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

SETTING AN ACCURATE LEASE PAYMENT
BASED ON FAIR MARKET AND A
SUSTAINABLE AND EQUITABLE SOLUTION

Sustainable and Equitable
Solution

fill
nilatuial

87w Renewing Ability

li'ricL-tr: it

and

 

implemented on a state or local level in Michigan
and throughout the GLWA service area, these
suggestions provide a model for national legisla-
tion, as well as initiatives that can be applied in
other states and local communities across the
country.

Access to safe and affordable water and waste-
water services is a problem that has multiple struc-
tural elements and no one piece of legislation can
accomplish all that is needed. The samples below

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 43

reflect a partial menu of strategies and targets.

Components

Important work has been done on this front, and
we recommend further inquiry into the feasibility
and development of potential legal and legislative
strategies.

The National Coalition for Legislation on Afford-
able Water is current advocating
for a variety of measures at the state and federal
levels.62 Founded in Detroit, the coalition is com-
prised of local, state, and national organizations
advocating for legislation that guarantees ?com-
prehensive access to safe, affordable drinking
water and sanitation the human rights to water
and sanitation." They require that water be acces-
sible, safe, and affordable.

Those efforts include legal protections for access
to water, water billing and rates, water quality, and
citizen oversight and transparency. NCLAWater?s
Michigan statewide legislative package includes
the following examples.

Examples of Legislation

The following bills could work in different ways to
advance the realization of water access by explic-
itly stating that right, requiring transparency from
service providers, ensuring affordability, and imple-
menting consumer protections.?

Access to Water

HB 4291 Michigan Access and

Affordable Water Act

Creates the ?Accessible and Affordable Water
Act," which would require that all state depart?

ments and agencies employ all reasonable means
to adopt certain policies to ensure that water is
affordable and accessible as long as those po i~
cies do not affect eligibility for federal funds.

HB 4360 Water Access

Requires access points for safe drinking water be
available in places where residents are not sup-
plied municipal water hook-ups.

Water Billing and Rates

HB 4393 Shut-Off Protections

Institutes shut-off protections by creating cat-
egories of individuals protected from shut-offs
(seniors, families with young children, pregnant
women and people with disabilities) and providing
for clearer notices about potential shut-offs.

HB 4392 Regulation of Water Rates by

MPSC

Grants the Michigan Public Service Commission
the power and jurisdiction to regulate rates, fares,
fees and charges of any water or sewer authority
in the state. According to a Legislative Service Bu-
reau research memo from 2015, water utilities fall
under the purview of 45 other state public service
commissions.

HB 4394 Affordability

Addresses the water rate structure that unduly
burdens low-income residents by amending the
Social Welfare Act to create a residential water
affordability program within DH HS in order to
ensure that water bills are based on household
income.

NATIONAL COALITION FOR LEGISLATION ON AFFORDABLE WATER

GUIDING PRINCIPLES

 

was created to adopt federal and state legislation establishing affordable water and sanitation
services, ensuring that every person has access to safe, affordable water and sanitation. No person shall be
denied access to basic water and sanitation services based on ability to pay, race, age, or gender. All state and
local criminal law provisions that criminalize lack of access to safe affordable water and sanitation are a violation
of constitutional due process and equal access guarantees. Drinking water and sanitation services and facilities
must be accessible at home, in schools, clinics, low income and elderly housing, and to homeless persons; Safe
drinking water must be free from microbes, parasites, chemical substances, heavy metals and radiological hazards
that constitute a threat to a person's health. Sanitation facilities must ensure the health and physical security of
the person. [Affordable water] [m]means that every person can pay for drinking water and sanitation without sac-
rificing another basic, essential human need such as food, health care, housing, transportation, education, and
emergency communications. No person shall be denied access to basic water and sanitation services based on
ability to pay, age, disability, gender, or race. Drinking water and sanitation must not comprise more than 

of income for low-income persons.

a asinstitu te.berkeley.ed moses.mi

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 44

 

The Haas Institute for a Fair and Inclusive Society brings together
researchers, community stakeholders, and policymakers to identify
and challenge the barriers to an inclusive, just, and sustainable society
in order to create transformative change.

2:3 haas institute 

FOR A FAIR AND INCLUSIVE SOCIETY 

Options for Implementation of a Statewide

Low-Income Water Rate Assistance Program

State Water Resources Control Board
January 3, 2019

Table of Contents

Introduction 3
Executive Summary 4

Chapter 1: Why help households pay for drinking water service? The need for Low-Income Rate

Assistance in California 8
Chapter 2: Program Design Scenarios: Eligibility, Benefit Level, and Total Program Cost 17
Chapter 3: Revenue Collection Options 22

Chapter 4: Options for Benefit Distribution and Administrative Features of a Statewide Low-Income

Ratepayer Assistance Program 24

Appendix A: Text of Assembly Bill 401, Dodd. Low-Income Water Rate Assistance Program
Appendix B: Summary of Public Input Process and Methodology for Program Scenario Analysis
Appendix C: Features of Existing Low?Income Ratepayer Assistance Programs

Appendix D: Lack of Federal and State Water Affordability Programs

Appendix E: Alternate Program Scenarios

Appendix F: Other Program Scenarios Evaluated

Appendix G: Analysis of Revenue Collection Options

Appendix H: Analysis of Benefit Delivery Methods

Appendix I: CalFresh

Appendix J: New Electronic Bene?ts Transfer (EBT) Program

Appendix K: Community Water Systems

Appendix L: Options for improving Affordability That Do Not Include Direct Rate Assistance
Appendix M: Roles and Responsibilities Under Different Program Scenarios

Appendix N: Estimate of State Water Board Program Implementation Costs for Electric Benefit Delivery
Program Option

Appendices can be accessed through the State Water Board website at:
issues/programslconservation portaifassisiancel.

 

Introduction

In 2012, California enacted the Human Right to Water Act (Assembly Bill (AB) 685), establishing a state
policy that every human being has the right to safe, clean, affordable, and accessible water adequate for
human consumption, cooking and sanitary purposes. Since the passage of AB 685, the Legislature
passed and the Governor signed various laws1 aimed at making this policy a reality. There is, however,
more to do. In recognition that many Californians may not be able to pay their water bills, AB 401 (Dodd,
2015) enacted the Low-Income Water Rate Assistance Act, which directed the State Water Resources
Control Board (State Water Board or Board) to submit recommendations for a statewide Low-Income
Water Rate Assistance Program (W-LIRA).

In this draft report, the State Water Board outlines possible components for developing a successful
program to help low-income households pay their water bills. Specifically, the report identifies potential
program recipients, different mechanisms for delivering benefits to low-income households, and possible
funding sources to implement such a program. The purpose of this report is to present ideas for
a W-LIRA program for public and stakeholder input, and the options outlined re?ect discussions with
public interest groups and stakeholders. The Board will use the input gathered in response to this draft to
develop a final report to the Legislature in 2019.

In addition to welcoming feedback on this AB 401 draft report, the State Water Board also encourages
review of the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment?s (OEHHA) draft Framework and Tool
for Evaluating California?s Progress in Achieving the Human Right to Water. Following the adoption of a
Human Right to Water Resolution2 in 2016, the Board enlisted OEHHA to develop a methodology for
evaluating the state?s progress in meeting the Human Right to Water policy. draft framework
and tool can help evaluate and track our progress towards achieving safe, clean, affordable, and
accessible water for all Californians.

While AB 401 is focused on assisting low-income households in paying their water bills, the State Water
Board is committed to achieving the Human Right to Water in full. Multiple strategies will be necessary.
This includes securing sustainable funding for the long-term operation and maintenance of water
systems, consolidation of unsustainable systems, and improving technical, managerial, and financial
capacity for systems serving disadvantaged communities. While the state continues to explore options
for comprehensive solutions, developing a W-LIRA program will provide a necessary safety net for the
most vulnerable Californians.

 

1 These laws include: Senate Bill (SB) 88 (2015), SB 552 (2016), SB 1263 (2016), AB 401 (2015), AB
1668 SB 606 (2018), AB 2501 (2018), and SB 998 (2018).

2 State Water Board. Human Right to Water Resolution. Available at URL:
decisionsiadopted 0010.0df.

3

Executive Summary
The Growing Water Affordability Challenge

Drinking water is a basic human need. Satisfying this need, however, is becoming more difficult for
California?s households, as the retail cost of water has risen substantially over the last decade and is
expected to rise significantly over the coming years. Figure 1 shows that, adjusting for inflation, the
average Californian household was paying around 45% more per month for drinking water service in
2015 thanin 2007. The burden of rapidly- rising drinking water costs falls most heavily on the 13 million
Californians living In low-income households, many of whom have seen their' Incomes stagnate during the
same period. The high and rising costs of other basic needs for California residents including housing,
food, and other utility services means that cost increases for any single need, such as water, can lead
families to make dif?cult and risky tradeoffs which could harm their health and welfare. Expenditures to
meet basic water needs are expected to continue to rise'rapidly due to the need for water systems to
replace aging infrastructure, meet treatment standards, diversify supplies, and ?maintain a well-trained
workforce.

Figure 1. Inflation-adjusted Increase in average price ?or water (15 CCF3) for California Households

agenda autumn-1'

 

Source: American Water Works Association Data, 2007?201 5
Need for a Statewide Program

Only 46% of California's population is served by a community water system offering some form of
a rate assistance program, and many of these programs have low levels of enrollment and limited

 

3 Centum cubic feet (CCF) is also known as a hundred cubic feet (HCF), which is 748 gallons. For a four
person householdmonth equates to 75 gallons of water per person per day.

4 Community water systems serve communities with more than 25 people year-round. It is a term the
Board's Drinking Water Division uses to distinguish them from other drinking water providers, such as
domestic wells, truck stops, camp grounds, etc.

financial support. As a result, less than 20% of the state?s low-income population currently receives
benefits from a low-income rate assistance program. One reason for the limitation in program offerings is
that publicly-owned water systems are constrained by Proposition 2185 in the use of their water fees and
charges. Systems that do provide low-income rate assistance benefits are able to fund them from non-
fee revenues.

There are also administrative obstacles associated with providing a rate assistance program to water
users at the system level. Asking approximately 3,000 individual CWS to operate their own standalone
rate assistance programs for their individual customer bases is infeasible. As illustrated in Figure 2, using
200% of the federal poverty level (FPL) as the baseline eligibility criteria for W-LIRA programs would
mean that for many systems more than 50% of their customers would be eligible for assistance. To
operate a low-income rate assistance program. these systems would likely have to impose outsized cost
burdens on higher-income households served by the systems.

Figure 2. Large Water Systems with High Percentages of Low-Income Households That Could be
Eligible for Rate Assistance

 

Sutlm

Fresno 
Tulare
Kern
Santa Barbara; 0
San Bernardino

 

   
  

Note: Calculated using Census data and system water boundaries. The percentages shown above
represent the proportion of residential customers served by the system who have incomes under 200% of
the Federal Poverty Level.

 

5 Passed in 1996, Proposition 218 requires certain local government taxes, fees and assessments to go
before the voters for approval.

Because developing a comprehensive low-income rate assistance program at the system level is not
practical, the Board envisions a statewide program, with benefits distributed through other existing
assistance program, such as utility bill credits, tax credits, or direct cash benefits.

The Board recommends progressive revenue sources (is. taxes or fees) in order not to burden some of
the residents that this program seeks to serve. For example, taxes on personal and business income
would provide progressive revenues, while fees on bottled water or alcohol would have a nexus to water
use.

Eligibility criteria and bene?t levels would influence the total program costs. AB 401 directed the Board to
use 200% of the FPL as the primary eligibility criteria in its analysis; however, the Board seeks input on
alternate eligibility criteria that can feasibly be implemented across the state (some of which are
discussed in Appendix F). Benefit levels could be tied to the cost of water. other assistance programs, or
certain affordability criteria. The Board developed the working proposal below to elicit input and inform a
robust discussion. The program scenario would offer a three-tiered bene?t to all eligible residential
households (those with income under 200% of the FPL) in the state.6 The program would provide a
benefit equivalent to the tiers below. The monetary value of the discounts provided in each tier would be
based on a consumption level of 1ZCCF each month for each of the 3,000 community water systems,
rather than each household's actual amount consumed (and actual bills). as explained below in Chapter
2.

Text Box 1: Potential Program Benefit Levels

 

Tier 1: 20% discount to all households that have incomes below 200% of the federal poverty level
(FPL) in water systems where water expenditures (at 12 CCF) are below $90,

Tier 2: 35% discount to all households that have incomes below 200% of the FPL in water systems
where water expenditures (at 12 CCF) are between $90 and $120, and

Tier 3: 50% discount to all households that have incomes below 200% of the FPL in water systems
where water costs (at 12 CCF) are above $120.

 

 

Because the average water bill is around $60 per month.7 most low-income households would be
in Tier 1.

The proposed benefit levels would provide substantial assistance to all low-income households, but also
a larger benefit to those in the CWS that have the greatest drinking water expenditure burden. Moreover,
both the program eligibility criteria and first two benefit tiers correspond to the California Alternative Rates
for Energy (CARE) program design where 4.3 million low-income households receive a 30-35% discount
on their electric bill and a 20% discount on their natural gas bill. However, CARE benefits relate to
customers' actual bill amounts rather the system-wide rates for a set level of consumption, as in this
report's working proposal.

This scenario is projected to cost about $606 million in the first year for benefit distribution and program
administration. Costs would adjust over time based on changes in the number of eligible households and

 

6 The Federal Poverty Level is based on household size; so larger households would qualify with higher
incomes than smaller households.
7 See Chapter 2: Program Design Scenarios: Eligibility, Benefit Level, and Total Program Cost.

6

 

water rates. The total annual cost includes ongoing program management costs, such as potential
expanded household enrollment verification procedures, marketing and outreach, and benefit distribution
system modifications, as discussed further in Chapter 4 and the Appendices. Modifications to this
scenario would result in different cost projections. For example. shrinking eligibility to households earning
up to 150% of the FPL would reduce program costs, while expanding eligibility to households earning up
to 250% of the FPL would raise program costs. The same logic applies to the program benefit levels,
including the amount of water use upon which calculations are based. In addition, initial program costs
would decrease if the program were phased-in overtime, such as if benefits were initially only extended to
low-income households in areas with higher water bills.

Although there are many options for improving water affordability, the need to address this growing crisis
is clear. The Board looks fonNard to receiving feedback on this report and to working with stakeholders.
the Administration, and the Legislature to develop and implement policy solutions.

Safe Drinking Water Must Be a Priority

The development of a W-LIRA program and other discussions on water affordability should not delay
the urgent need to address the problem of unsafe drinking water. This is an urgent public health
crisis and solutions are already well developed. Hundreds of thousands of Californians lack access
to safe drinking water. A significant challenge is the lack of a sustainable funding for long-term
operations and maintenance for drinking water systems. Over the past two years, the Legislature
has proposed a modest surcharge of $1 per month on certain California households to address the
systematic challenges that prevent the delivery of safe drinking water to Californians?" Low-income
residents would be exempt from paying such a charge, and community water systems would be
allowed to retain a portion of the funding for their expenses of collecting and transmitting the monies
to the state.

 

3 SB 623, SB 844 and SB 845.

Chapter 1: Why help households pay for drinking water service? The
need for Low-Income Rate Assistance in California

AB 401 mandates that the State Water Board, in collaboration with the Department of Tax and Fee
Administration (formally known as the State Board of Equalization) and relevant stakeholders, develop a
plan for the funding and implementation of a W-LIRA, which would include specified elements (see
Appendix A for the full text of AB 401). This draft report (including its appendices) reflects the analysis
from the planning process envisioned by AB 401, while allowing for additional public and stakeholder
feedback.

Why help households pay for drinking water service?

Rising income inequality coupled with California's high cost of living means that meeting basic needs,
including housing, food, clothing, transportation, healthcare, and utilities is increasingly a struggle for
many households. Currently, 34% of Californians, roughly 13 million people, live in households with
income under 200% of the federal poverty level (FPL), which in 2018 is $50,200 for a family of four.
When families are unable to pay their bills, they face difficult and highly consequential trade-offs, like
skipping meals and going hungry, risking eviction, or facing potential disconnection for electric, gas, or
water services.

An analysis of US Census data reveals that the real median household income in California in 2017 was
lower than it was in 2007.9 Across the nation more broadly, there has been a stagnation in real incomes
for low- to moderate-income earners, and a lack of households moving out of poverty conditions spanning
the last 30 years.10 At the same time, the largest necessary cost of living housing costs have shown
rapidly increasing divergence from household income since 2000.11 Low-income households need more
support to make ends meet. Providing all low-income households with financial assistance to help pay
their water bills is a small, but important way the state can support provision of basic necessities for all
Californians.

Table 1 shows the results of the stagnation in household incomes for the lower end of the income
distribution in California. Recent data shows that nearly 15% of California households have an income
below the FPL and more than one-third of California households have an income below 200% of the
FPL.12

 

9 Alternatively, the percentages of households under 100% or 200% of the FPL are higher in 2015
than 2005.

10 Drew Desilver (2014). Pew Research Center. For most workers, real wages have barely budged for
decades. Available at: 
Elise Gold (2015). Economic Policy Institute. 2014 Continues a 35-
Year Trend of Broad-Based Wage Stagnation. Available at: 
wages-in-2014l.

11 California Housing and Community Development Department (2017). California's Housing Future:
Challenges and Opportunities Public Draft. Available at: 


12 The percentage of households below the 100% and 200% FPL closely corresponds to the national
averages, which are 16% and 35%. For reference, 200% of FPL for a 4-person household in 2015 was
$48,600. This income level roughly corresponds to the Board?s 2015 median household income cutoff for
defining "disadvantaged communities" (DAC) of $49,454. The DAC threshold in turn is set at 80% of the
state's median household income (which is $61,818) and the metric is widely used to determine eligibility

Table 1. Financially Disadvantaged California Households

Designation Percent of State Households

 

 

Below 100% of Federal Poverty Level 14%
Below 150% of Federal Poverty Level 24%
Below 200% of Federal Poverty Level 34%

 

 

 

 

Source: 2010-2014 American Community Survey Data

Figure 3 illustrates the combined effects of stagnating incomes for low? and median-income households
and rising retail drinking water costs.

Figure 3. Changes in water rates relative to median household income and the proportion of low-
income households since 2007 (adjusted for inflation)

Changes in water rates relative to median household income and the
proportion of low income households since 2007

 

96 change relative to base year (2007)

Time

Mlil - ~Pto
the

There are at least four additional rationales to support the development of a W-LIRA program in
California:

 

for other drinking water system financial assistance programs in California. The 200% FPL threshold is
particularly relevant for the purpose of considering the need for a W-LIRA program because these income
levels are most commonly used as eligibility criteria for existing low-income rate assistance programs.

AB 401 also specifically mentions the 200% FPL threshold.

1. The devastating health and livelihood impacts people experience where water is unaffordable,
2. The rapidly-rising retail cost of drinking water,

3. The general absence of robust low-income rate assistance program or affordability programs,
when they are available for many other basic household needs, and

4. The inability of many individual water systems to support a rate assistance program on their own.
Each of these motivations for a program is explained in turn below.
#1 Health and livelihood impacts

If water is unaffordable, low-income households will likely either consume less water than is healthy
and/or consume less of other vital goods and services to pay for the water they need.13 In other words,
low-income households face tradeoffs that harm their health and welfare.14 One example of this is in the
City of Detroit, where 156,000 households struggled with increased water rates alongside necessary
electricity costs for heating during a frigid winter. Households prioritized the immediate need of electricity
over water, and the city experienced a high rate of water shutoffs due to non-payment.15

Unaffordable water service, especially in light of low-income households? extremely-constrained incomes,
can lead to service disconnections. A major public health concern from water shutoffs is water-related
illnesses. A recent study by the Henry Ford Hospital examined the public health implications of water
shutoffs in the City of Detroit. By analyzing water-borne illnesses and comparing them to home
addresses of water shutoffs, researchers found that patients diagnosed with skin and soft tissue diseases
were 1.48 times more likely to live on a block that experienced water shutoffs. Following the release of
the study in July 2017, a panel of experts, including physicians, called for the declaration of a public
health emergency in the city because of the correlation between water shutoffs and water-related
illnesses.16 For similar reasons, the City of Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority recently placed a
moratorium on drinking water service shutoffs in the winter season.? Moreover, the recent Hepatitis A
outbreak across parts of California among at?risk populations without permanent shelter has been
partially attributed to a lack of access to adequate water and sanitation facilities.18 At a broader scale,
shutoffs and lack of affordable access to water can result in an economic burden to the state, as low-
income families facing these challenges incur outsized healthcare costs, some of which are subsidized by
the state.

 

13 Davis, Jon P. and Teodoro, Manuel P. (2017). ?Financial Capability and Affordability.? Chapter 22 in
Water and Wastewater Finance and Pricing: The Changing Landscape, Fourth Edition.

?4 Morduch, Jonathan, and Schneider, Rachel. The Financial Diaries: How American Families Cope in a
World of Uncertainty. Princeton University Press, 2017.

15 Filson, J. and Avery, T. (2017). ?Water Shutoffs in Detroit: An Ongoing Crisis.? Food Water Watch.
16 Chambers, Jennifer. Experts: Water shutoffs causing public health emergency. The Detroit News.
[Online] July 26, 2017. Available at: 

citvi201 0401 6812/.

17 The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (2017). Winter Moratorium Program- Frequently Asked
Questions. Available at:

WinterMoratoriumProqram FINALPDF.

1'5 For instance, see California Department of Public Health (2018). ?Hepatitis A Outbreak in California".
Available at: 

Outbreakaspx.

10

Households that cannot pay their water bill in turn face negative impacts to their credit, risk of loss of
property, and/or eviction. An example of this is in the City of Baltimore where the water system often sells
unpaid water bills as property liens in tax sales. Households that cannot pay back the bill in addition to
charges and interest to the buyer of the lien lose the home to foreclosure. From 2014 to 2015, the
number of homes sold at tax sales in Baltimore with water-only liens rose from 671 to 902.19 While the
Board does not yet have a complete dataset for statewide water shutoffs, shutoff concerns were raised at
the public meetings Board staff held around the state, and in the comment letters the Board received.20

The rapidly?rising retail cost of drinking water

Understanding drinking water affordability for households requires consideration of the necessary
expenditure for water paid by a household, the income of the household, as well as the costs of other vital
goods and services such as housing, utilities, food, transportation, and healthcare.21 Water affordability
becomes a more pressing issue for households as water service rates rise.

The Board began maintaining water rate data for California's drinking systems in 2014. Using this data
for estimation purposes, the average California household in 2015 paid around $60 per month for 12 GOP
of drinking water service. Longer-standing sources of rate data indicate that the retail price of water has
risen dramatically above the pace of in?ation in California (and the US. more broadly) over the last
decade.22 Moreover, ?nancial project the retail price of water to rise significantly in California
over the coming years.?

As summarized in Figure 4, rising rates for water service are attributable to a number of factors, two of
which are relatively unique to water within basic service sectors.24 First, water has been historically
underpriced compared to the true cost of service,25 which has led to many water systems in California
now having aging infrastructure that must be replaced. In addition, more stringent water quality standards

 

?9 Jacobson, Joan (2016). Keeping the Water On: Strategies for addressing high increases in water and
sewer rates for Baltimore '3 most vulnerable customers. The Abell Foundation.

20 See issuesiproqramsiconservation portaliassistancei for links
to AB 401 comment letters.

21 For instance, see Teodoro, M. P. (2018). Measuring Household Affordability for Water and Sewer
Utilities. Journal-American Water Works Association, 110(1), 13-24. While designing a statewide
affordability program with an eligibility or benefit criteria which takes account of the cost of other vital
goods and services for low-income households may be ideal, it was deemed infeasible for two reasons.
First, it is not possible to obtain accurate and representative data on variation in other essential costs
outside of large metropolitan areas, as shown in a close reading of Teodoro, 2018. Second, and perhaps
more importantly, it is unreasonable to expect a potential statewide drinking water affordability program to
compensate for the high local cost of other essential services given that this potential program has no
federal or state general fund assistance and is being considered after the establishment of other much
longer-standing benefit programs.

22 2015 California-Nevada Water and Wastewater Rate Survey. American Water Works Association and
Raftelis. Available at: CANVRateSurvevZDt 5.pdf.

23 Carroll, Rory. September 18, 2015. ?California water prices set to rise next year: Fitch." Available at:



24 2015 California-Nevada Water and Wastewater Rate Survey. American Water Works Association and
Raftelis. Available at: American
Society of Civil Engineers, California Infrastructure Overview {201?} .

25 For instance, see Timmins, C. (2002). Does the median voter consume too much water? Analyzing
the redistributive role of residential water bills. National Tax Journal, 687-702.

11

require additional costs for treatment and operator training.26 Second, the percentage of federal support
in the total public spending on infrastructure for water utilities has fallen from over 30% in the 19705 to
less than 5% in 2015.27 In other words, state agencies and especially local water systems need to
finance their own operations to a much greater extent than in the past.

Figure 4. Drivers of Rising Water Rates in California



Increaslng Supply



  
 

Why are water

I'll? rising for 

systems across of Opmtou
the state?

Climate Change
Adaptatlon

Necessary Capital



 

?mluu i-n I'm ill- ll-II. run 

Among these cost drivers, climate change adaptation will play a significant role in the future of water
affordability as both populations and suppliers shift behaviors and practices in response to climatic
impacts. At the household level, the effects of higher temperatures will be felt across the state, with
increases of and predicted by the 20305 and late 20905, respectively.? Numerous studies
show these increased temperatures will result in greater residential water demand;29 the most specific
urban case study shows an annual per capita increase of 1.6 gallons per increase, for temperatures
above 

Alongside this increase in demand, there will also be an increase in the difficulty of maintaining safe and
consistent water supplies due to physical and hydrologic shifts, including drought, occurring throughout
the state. One widely-recognized challenge is sea level rise, which is expected to increase and inundate

 

26 Hanak, E., Gray, 8., Lund, J., Mitchell, D., Chappelle, C., Fahlund, A., Jessoe, K., Medellin?Azuara, J.,
D., Nachbaur, J., Suddeth, R., Freeman, E., and E. "Paying for Water in
California." (2014). Public Policy Institute of California, pg. 35.

27 US. Congressional Budget Office (2015), Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,
1956 to 2014, Available at: Eskaf, Shadi, September 26, 2015.
"Four Trends in Government Spending on Water and Wastewater Utilities Since 1956" Available at:


25? CPDH, 2013

29 Pacific Institute, 2012; Wang et al., 2015; Neale et al., 2007

30 Protopapas et al., 2000

12

groundwater with salts, decreasing groundwater availability for drinking water supplies.31 Additionally, the
increased prevalence of wildfire burns across California described by Westerling et al. (2011) and
Westerling Bryant (2007) is diminishing watershed health and will likely lead to increases in the costs of
drinking water supplies. Lastly, and most importantly for California, the Sierra Nevada snowpack, which
currently supplies the state with over 60% of its water supply for urban and agricultural uses, is shrinking
and will continue to do so, forcing water providers to seek alternatives.

In addition to past and expected future water rate increases for all customers, the water sector is different
than other basic services in its variability in retail rates across different retail systems. Retail rate
divergence by neighboring systems is not unique to California32 but is certainly very common within the
state.33 Again. the average California household paid around $60 per month for 12 CCF of drinking water
service in 2015, but there was tremendous variation in the price paid by households. Many systems
(973) charge rates higher than the state average, with some charging one and a half (175), two (28), or
three times (4) the average price for the same amount of water. The state's geography, population
distribution, and hydrology mean that source water quality and quantity vary tremendously, and some
systems face high costs to obtain and treat water.

Prominent examples of very high drinking water costs include those experienced by residents of Cantua
Creek in Fresno County and Lucerne in Lake County. Residents in Cantua Creek pay roughly $174 a
month.34 Residents in the Lucerne pay roughly $350 in water bills due to system upgrades.35
Moreover, in the City of Fontana, residents will experience a 30.7% increase in water rates over the next
three years.3?5 Larger cities are not exempt from this trend; the City of San Francisco rates have risen
127% over seven years.37 As more fully discussed in the report, differences in the geographic location,
source water quality, regulatory oversight, and socioeconomic profile of systems drive variation in rates
across water systems in California.

Comparable programs exist in other sectors

Anotherjustification for the creation of a W-LIRA in California is that statewide programs already operate
to subsidize other essential services at the household level. As discussed in more detail in Appendix C,
robust, relatively-longstanding mandated programs at the federal and state levels subsidize the

 

31 Hoover, et al., 2017

32 Gregory. Ted: Reyes, Cecilia; O'Connell, Patrick and Caputo, Angela; Same Lake, Unequal Rates:
Why our water rates are surging and why black and poor suburbs pay more. (October 25, 2017).
Chicago Tribune, Available at 
Jordi Honey-Roses, David Gill, Claudio Pareja (March 2016), British Columbia Municipal
Water Survey 2016.

33 For instance, see the analysis of retail price variation for 18 CCF in Los Angeles County in DeShazo,
Pierce, Gregory; and McCann, Henry. "Los Angeles County Community Water Systems Atlas and
Policy Guide: Supply Vulnerabilities, At-Risk Populations, Conservation Opportunities, Pricing Policies,
and Customer Assistance Programs." UCLA: Luskin Center for Innovation.

34 Public comment made by Cantua Creek resident at the AB 401 Public Meeting. (2017). Fresno, CA.
Additional information available at: 

35 Dilling, Audrey. ?Why This California Town?s Water Costs Way More Than the National Average."
(2017). KQED News.

35 ?Water Rates for Fontana Water Company Customers Will Go Up 30.7 Percent, CPU Says." (2017).
Fontana Herald News. Available at: 
1 e7-a4e0-eb5fe1755790.htm 

37 The Price of Water: Water Rates Dashboard-San Francisco. (2017). Circle of Blue. Available at


 

13

affordability of basic energy and telephone services for low-income households who apply and are
eligible.38

By contrast, no state or federal programs provide affordability assistance directly to households for
drinking water services. Similarly, the relative role of federal financial support for water utilities nation-
wide has fallen since the mid-19705, as compared to local and state government financial support for
water utilities. Figure 6 shows that the federal government supported over 30% of total spending on
water utility infrastructure through the 19705, but less than 5% by 2014.39

Figure 6. The Percent of Total Public Infrastructure Spending on Water Utilities by the Federal
Government (1974-2014)

40
35
30
25
22.3%
20

15

10

Perrcent of Total Spending by Federal Government

4.0%




Similarly, nationwide, programs addressing water affordability have traditionally been left up to individual
CWS. This holds true in California except for large investor-owned utility systems, which are regulated by
the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) to provide LIRA programs.

The State Water Board estimates that approximately 46% of the entire Californian population is served by
a water system offering some type of rate assistance. Unfortunately, however, the presence of a rate

 

39 See the Congressional Budget Office's March 2015 report Public Spending on Transportation and
Water Infrastructure, 1956 to 2014, which contains detailed data of public spending on transportation and
water infrastructure at local, state, and federal levels.

14

assistance program does not mean that the program adequately addresses the affordability need
experienced by the system's population. The biggest obstacle faced by existing programs is their limited
extent and inability to support those households that are most in need, because many low-income
households do not pay a water bill directly, and because the existing programs have low enrollment levels
and provide insufficient support. In addition, except for the investor-owned water systems, these existing
rate assistance programs are funded by non-rate revenues to comply with Proposition 218, and therefore
their funding is insufficient to provide benefits to all eligible households in theirjurisdiction. Table 2 shows
annual rate assistance programs expenditure data for drinking water systems serving 31% of the state's
population in 2015. These systems all offered rate assistance programs and were most likely to have
high enrollment rates as compared to other water systems.

Table 2. W-LIRA Program Expenditure for Sample Water Systems in California (2015)

Amount spent on low-

Percent of State's Population

 

 

 

 

Water Systems Served by System income rate assistance
In 2015
Los Angeles Department of Water and . .
Power (LADWP) 10 /o $26 million
CPUC Private Water Systems 14% $27 million
24 Other Large Urban Public Water 0 . .
Suppliers 7/0 $4.2 million
TOTAL 31 $57.2 million

 

 

 

 

 

Sources: LADWP and CPUC financial reports, and a survey of municipal systems conducted directly by
the Board

The limitations of standalone system rate assistance programs

The final justification for a W-LIRA program is the fact that many individual water systems in California
economically cannot support a rate assistance program on their own. Although there are about 3,000
CWS operating in California, over 80% of the population is served by the 400 largest systems. While the
most intuitive solution would seem to be to allow or enable the 3,000 individual CWS to operate their own
standalone rate assistance programs for their customer base, the Board's research shows that individual
CWS would bear vastly different cost burdens to provide assistance to eligible customers. Ultimately, this
means that customers ineligible for assistance in one system higher-income customers) might pay
much more to support affordability for eligible customers in their system than ineligible customers would in
another system. Although most of the systems with the highest eligibility burdens are classified as small
or very small, more than 22% of systems throughout the state would have eligibility burdens of more than
50% of their residential customers.

On the other hand, large, more sophisticated systems also see high eligibility rates. Figure 2 illustrates
that even among some systems which serve 3,000 or more customers, imposing a requirement to run a
standalone rate assistance program would likely cause outsized affordability burdens as well. To operate
a W-LIRA program in these systems, outsized cost burdens would need to be passed on to ineligible
households within each CWS. Even if 3 CW8 were willing to raise revenue for a rate assistance program
in this way, it could face legal challenges from ratepayers arguing that the system's use of water rate
revenues for rate assistance program benefits may be subject to Proposition 218. The likely result of
encouraging or mandating affordability assistance in systems with high eligibility burdens would be that a
sizeable number of CWS would simply not be able to operate a sustainable rate assistance program that
would meet the goals envisioned by the Human Right to Water and the Low-Income Water Rate

15

Assistance Act. Given the challenges facing the many water systems with high eligibility burdens, a W-
LIRA appears more feasible to address the statewide mandate of the Human Right to Water.

16

Chapter 2: Program Design Scenarios: Eligibility, Benefit Level, and
Total Program Cost

This chapter proposes a W-LIRA program scenario, with a focus on three key elements in the program
design. Eligibility is de?ned as the number of program-qualifying households based on socioeconomic
criteria. Bene?t is the type and dollar amount of annual financial assistance received by an eligible
household. Estimated annual program cost is equal to the number of eligible households multiplied by the
household benefit per household and adjusted for expected enrollment (which decreases total costs) and
administrative costs (which increases total costs). Table 4 shows a basic example program scenario cost
calculation incorporating each of these three program design elements.

Table 4. Example W-LIRA Program Scenario Calculation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eligibility Estimated Number of Eligible Households 1,000
Benefit Theoretical Benefit per Household $100

Maximum Total Benefits to be Distributed $100,000
Annual Accounting for Expected Enrollment Level* $84,000
Estimated Annual Program Operating Cost** $92,400

 

 

*This enrollment value mirrors the California Alternative Rates for Energy (CARE) program?s enrollment
level 84%, as explained in Chapter 4.
Assuming 10% administrative costs to operate the program, as explained in Chapter 4.

Appendix discusses the advantages and disadvantages of several alternative program designs with
different eligibility and benefit criteria (and thus total costs) to the proposed scenario which were fully
considered in the process of plan development and stakeholder engagement. Using the data and
methods described in Appendix B, more than 70 program scenarios were evaluated and empirically
estimated over the past three years.

The proposed program scenario would offer three-tiered benefit levels to all eligible residential
households in the state, as described in Assembly Bill (AB) 401. In the context of a statewide water
assistance program, there is no administratively feasible way to provide an individual percentage discount
on each household level consumption,40 unless there are verified data on household consumption
reported to the program administrator of the assistance program.41 Therefore, this scenario would
provide a benefit based on the cost of consuming 12 CCF as described below:

Tier 1: 20% discount to all households that have incomes below 200% of the federal poverty level (FPL)
in water systems where water expenditures (at 12 CCF) are below $90,

Tier 2: 35% discount to all households that have incomes below 200% of the FPL in water systems where
water expenditures (at 12 CCF) are between $90 and $120, and

 

40 This is how the four large energy investor-owned utilities operate the California Alternative Rates for
Energy (CARE) program.

41 While this could be achieved via a data transfer process for some systems, the per household
consumption?based bill discounts would prove administratively costly to implement across all water
systems which either do not meter consumption, have different billing periods, or do not have fully
digitized administrative operations (see Chapter 4 for more discussion of this challenge).

17

Tier 3: 50% discount to all households that have incomes below 200% of the FPL in water systems where
water costs (at 12 CCF) are above $120.

The estimated total annual cost of such a program, and thus the annual revenue target for program
operation, in its first year is $606.4 million. Changes to the proportion of the state's households eligible
for the program (those with incomes under 200% of the FPL) could raise or lower the cost of the program.
Moreover, the annual cost of the program would rise if residential water rates at the 12 CCF consumption
level continue to increase.

Proposed Program Scenario Factors
Eligibility: Baseline eligibility as 200% of the FPL

Most assistance scenarios used in the Board's analysis have a common eligibility criteria of household
income equal to or below 200% of the FPL. There are several reasons for the establishment of this
common eligibility criteria. 200% of the FPL is explicitly defined as the ?low-income" criterion in
the AB 401 legislation text. Secondly, this eligibility criterion is inclusive: more than one-third of the
state's households have incomes at or below 200% of the FPL. Thirdly, 200% of the FPL is a commonly-
used criterion by other Low-Income Assistance Programs (LIRA) and social bene?t programs (most
notably CARE) in California. Use of 200% of the FPL has a clear precedent and allows for potential
administrative cost efficiencies between eligibility for other programs and the new W-LIRA program.

Benefit Type: Percentage of total bill benefit

Water systems across the state charge vastly different total dollar amounts for the same volume of water
consumed (Le. 12 CCF), even within the same customer class (residential customers using the same
sized pipe). Since all water systems? except those regulated by the have discretion over rate
design and levels consistent with cost of service requirements. there is wide variability in rate structure
design, as further discussed in Chapter 1. (Chapter 1 also explains why some systems face much higher
source water costs than others). Consequently, the Board faced the challenge of developing proposals
for providing eligible households with equitable benefits based on a certain component of the bill.

Given the complexity in rate structures, a benefit assigned as a percentage of a residential bill at a
specified consumption level (including all ?xed and variable costs but excluding other non-water service
related to charges and fees) is likely to be more equitable than a flat benefit discount, or a discount to a
certain component of the bill. To illustrate this point, an example of the affordability support experienced
by households served by different community water systems with different rate levels and structures (but
the same consumption level, 12 CCF) is shown in Table 6 below.

Three Tier Structure

The tiered bene?t structure was developed from the average statewide water expenditure of about $60 a
month for 12 CCF. Low-income households that pay more than 150% (Tier 2) and 200% (Tier 3) of the
state average water bill would be eligible for a higher percentage of bill discounts structured through the
Proposed Program Scenario. The tiered percentages of bill discounts were chosen with reference to
those offered by CARE at 20% (Tier 1) and 35% (Tier 2), with the highest tier of 50% (Tier 3) increasing
incrementally by another 15%.

The Proposed Program Scenario has the collective advantage of providing not only substantial
affordability assistance to all low-income households. but also a larger benefit to those who face the

18

greatest drinking water cost burdens.42 The biggest disadvantage of this program scenario is that it would
require verification of rate data at the system level, and, for newly enrolling households, verification of
income data, raising the cost of program administration. The Board would need to verify the cost of 12
CCF for residential customers (for Tier 2 and 3 purposes), and households not already enrolled in the
CARE program would need to document their eligibility status (income).

The 20% discount is equivalent to the CARE discount for natural gas service, as well as the high end of
discounts currently offered by existing low-income rate assistance programs in California. A discount of
35%, also offered to CARE customers for electricity service, helps households that face water bills
exceeding the state average by more than 150% to 200% of the bill average. Finally, the 50% discount
tier accounts for the small number of water systems charging more than 200% of the state average for 12
CCF water bills and has a precedent in California Water Service where 50% is the benefit level for
households served in very high cost areas.43 Following annual updates to the Board?s record of drinking
water costs, information used to determine eligibility and benefit would be adjusted.

Consumption: 12 CCF of water 

This program scenario has the advantage of providing not only substantial affordability assistance to all
low-income households, but also a larger bene?t to those who have the greatest drinking water cost
burden. Moreover. both the eligibility criteria and the first two benefit tiers correspond to the criteria laid
out by the statewide CARE program for electricity and natural gas affordability. The 12 CCF consumption
level accounts for indoor use for large households or a modest amount of outdoor use. As shown in
Table 5, the benefit also allows the average California household to afford above 55 gallons/person/day,
the current standard for indoor set by AB 1668 (2018) and provides for some outdoor use for a family of
four.

Table 5. Daily Water Use Available to a Family of Four at 12 CCF 

 

 

Daily Water Use Category Amount Allocated

Indoor Use 220 gallons (55 gallons 4)
Outdoor Use 75 gallons

Total Use 295 gallons

 

 

 

 

12 CCF 8977 gallons. 8977 gallons 295 gallons 30.42 (365/12) days in average month.

For the statewide W-LIRA program, a benefit associated with a percentage of a fixed volume like 12 CCF,
would be provided regardless of whether an individual household is consuming more or less than this
level. A shortcoming of this approach occurs when necessary household level consumption exceeds 12
CCF, as no additional assistance would be provided compared to what the same household would
receive if its necessary consumption was lower than 12 CCF. However, as described above, the 12 CCF
consumption level addresses situations where more than four people reside in a household and where
households can use modest amounts of water for outdoor irrigation. An additional bene?t of using a fixed
consumption level is that the W-LIRA program is less exposed to risk of manipulation and does not
subsidize or incentivize over-use.44 In addition, since most low-income households do not pay a water bill

 

42 While additional or alternative eligibility criteria or benefit tiers might allow for more refined targeting,
going beyond the complexity of the primary scenario would be extraordinarily difficult for a statewide
program.

43 Available at: tariffs/all/20180101-Low-

Income Ratepaver Assistance Schedule 

44 On the other hand, using a benefit calculation which is untied to consumption but is set based on the

19

directly, there is no way to determine their water use, and providing them with benefits requires a uniform
approach such as using a fixed consumption level 12 CCF) for calculating a benefit level.

To illustrate how a benefit based on a fixed consumption level would work, an example comparing two
eligible low-income households is shown below in Table 6. The two households are served by the same
community water system but have different consumption levels. The water bill for 12 CCF in this
system is $60, and thus the bene?t distributed to each household will be $12 (20% of Therefore,
when allotting a percent discount to 12 CCF in the various billing tiers, households receive a positive
conservation signal to the households that are able to consume less water, while reducing their water bill
simultaneously.

Table 6. Illustration of Benefit for Fixed Volume Provided to Households with Different Water
Consumption Levels

Household A Household 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Water Consumption Level 12 CCF 6 CCF

Initial Water Bill Amount 60 40

Bene?t Received 12 12
Remainder of Bill to be paid by 
Household 48 28

 

 

 

Another reason that 12 CCF was chosen as the primary option for analysis is due to access to robust real
data at that consumption level. As described in Appendix B, the independent analysis for this report was
undertaken using self-reported, system-level expenditure at three consumption levels: 6, 12, and 24 CCF.
Both 6 CCF and 24 CCF were also considered but not evaluated. In light of the state's water
conservation priorities and public health goals, 24 CCF was considered too high of a level to subsidize.
Conversely, 6 CCF was generally considered too low of a level of supply to support households,
considering that many low-income households are larger than the state average.45 Some organizations
have provided a recommendation that the Board use a lower consumption level, such as 9 CCF, which
more closely tracks basic indoor use.46 The Board notes that besides the above stated reasons for using
12 CCF, the fundamental question relates to a value judgment about the types of uses and activities that
should be subsidized. In the electric sector, the CARE program provides discounts for use up to 400% of
the ?baseline," demonstrating a willingness to subsidize consumption over basic levels.47

 

rate set by the system for a consumption level is potentially open to manipulation by systems via rate
setting. Systems could respond to a W-LIRA program by shifting the rate burden to consumption levels
below 12 CCF, and thus elevate the benefit for eligible households. This type of strategic rate setting
would harm a system's non-eligible households who consume less than 12 CCF of water and dampen the
conservation signal to all households. and thus the net incentive to a given system to alter rates is
unclear. In stakeholder meetings, water system representatives have also stated that they would not or
could not practically engage in this type of strategic rate setting. if the W-LIRA program is established.
the Board will monitor this potential for rate setting response to the program going forward.

45 Using 2016 American Community Survey data, the average household under 225% of the FPL in
California has 10% more members than the average household above 225% of the FPL.

45 See for example, the Association of California Water Agencies comment letters.

47 See Public Utilities Code Section 739.1 

20

Enrollment and Administrative Cost Assumptions

To calculate the annual program cost for any W-LIRA scenario, the plan assumes an 84% enrollment of
program-eligible households. This is the enrollment rate achieved by the CARE program, and is the
highest enrollment rate observed among state or federal benefit programs. The plan also assumes an
additional 10% administrative (or overhead) cost above the dollar value of benefits directly distributed to
households for a statewide W-LIRA program. Accessing comparable data or calculating exact
administrative cost burden, even for large state and federal benefit programs, is not straightforward.
While some existing Board programs have lower overhead rates than 10%, most state or federal benefit
programs have higher rates. Moreover, there are substantive start-up costs, including data management,
marketing and outreach, billing system adjustments, and fund management that will require higher initial
administrative costs and that will vary depending on the selected program option.

Around 34% of the state's households would be income-eligible for this program. Of this 34%, only a
small proportion of households will be eligible for the higher tier benefits, 2% and for Tiers 2 and 3
respectively. Building on these high-end estimates for eligibility and enrollment, the Board calculates the
initial total annual cost of such a program, and thus the revenue target for program operation, to be

$606.4 million annually.48

Table 7. Primary Scenario Breakdown of Eligibility and Cost by Tier

Tier Criterion (Cumulative)
200% FPL

Tier 1
Paying up to
$90

Tier 2

Paying at $90-
$120

Tier 3
Paying Above
$120

Total

 

Estimated Number of Eligible

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Households? 4.045.564 198.040 106,041 4,349,645
20% of Water 35% of Water 50% of Water

Benefit Level per Household Bill Bill Bill

Maximum Total Benefits to be

Distributed 493.9 $82.6 $79.8 $656.3

Accounting for an Expected

Enrollment of 84%? $414.9 $69.4 $67.0 $551.3

Total Program Operating Costs

(in $456.40 $76.3 $73.7 $606.4

 

*Accounting for all households in the state (including those not captured by the
Board's 2015 rate data and those not served by CWS 
?This enrollment value reflects of CARE's enrollment estimation of 84%.
Assuming 10% administrative costs to operate this program.

 

48 This figure is generated based on a $656.3 million annual program cost at 100% enrollment. At a more
feasible 84% enrollment target with 10% administrative overhead, the total cost is $606.4 million.

21

 

Chapter 3: Revenue Collection Options

This chapter focuses on how a could be independently and sustainably financed through new
revenue collection options. A range of options .to finance the program were considered, including taxes on
high personal income earners or businesses via the state income tax system, bottled water taxes.
surcharges on non-eligible households? water bills, and other revenue sources (see Appendix G). The
broad advantages and disadvantages of each potential revenue source are also discussed in Appendix
G. The Board recommends that revenue sources be progressive (see Text Box 2) to avoid imposing
additional financial burdens on low-income households. Examples of progressive state taxes include
Proposition 63 (2004), the Mental Health Services (MHS) Act and Proposition 39 (2012) also known as
the California Clean Energy and Jobs Act.49 The MHS Act imposed a 1% special tax on personal taxable
income in excess of $1 million to fund MHS.50 Prop 39 closed tax loopholes for out-of-state
corporations.51

Text Box 2: Defining Progressive Revenue Sources

 

Generally, progressive revenue sources include taxes on income, capital gains, and property. Other
taxes, such as sales and excise (production) taxes on certain goods impact economically
disadvantaged populations to the extent that they consume these goods and depending on whether
the goods or services being taxed are easily substitutable. For example. taxes on food are regressive
because everyone needs to eat and there are no substitutes for food. Taxes on luxury goods. on the
other hand, generally do not impact low?income households because they are less likely to purchase
those goods.

 

 

 

While a personal income tax similar to Prop 63 and Prop 39 would generate significant revenues,
additional funding would be needed to support a W-LIRA program as outlined in this document. Table 8
(below) describes a combination of revenue sources to fund a W-LIRA program as detailed in Chapter 2
scenario. A quarter percent tax increase on personal income above $1 million, combined with sales tax
revenues from bottled water sales is estimated to generate 619.6 million. 52

Table 8: Potential Revenue Sources Scenario

Source Revenue Estimate

 

 

Personal income tax $466 million?
Bottled water sales tax $153.6 million*
Total $619.6 million

 

 

 

 

Estimate for income tax is based on 2017 tax receipts. Estimate for bottled water sales tax is based on
California Department of Tax and Finance Administration estimate for fiscal year 2022-2023, which would
be the first full year of tax collection for an initiative passed on the 2020 ballot.

 

49 California Department of Education Website. California Clean Energy Jobs Act (Proposition 39).
Available at: 

50 2004 Cal. Legis. Serv. Prop. 63; CAL. REV. CODE 19602.5.

51 Available at: 11 2012.350x.

5?2 This ?gure is generated based on a $656.3 million annual program cost at 100% enrollment. At a more
attainable 84% enrollment target with 10% administrative overhead, the total cost is $606.4 million.

22

The Board notes that the feasibility of passing any new tax or fee for this purpose. as required by
Proposition 2653, would require a supermajority vote in the state Legislature to come into effect.
Additionally, the bottled water sales tax would require a ballot referendum.

The Board invites input on? feasible and sustainable revenue sources for a W-LIRA program.

 

53 Proposition 26 was passed in 2010 requiring a supermajority vote of the Legislature to pass fees,
levies, charges and taxes.

23

Chapter 4: Options for Benefit Distribution and Administrative
Features of a Statewide Low-Income Ratepayer Assistance Program

Administrative considerations

 

The administrative mechanics of a W-LIRA would be vastly different depending on the method of the
benefit delivery model (energy utility bill credit vs. tax credit vs. Electronic Benefits Transfer For a
benefit delivered via the electric or gas bill, the CPUC and the Board would have administrative and
oversight responsibilities, while the electric utilities (both publicly-owned and investor-owned) would be
responsible for implementation to low-income customers. For a tax credit, the California Franchise Tax
Board (FTB) would be responsible for implementation. In an EBT scenario, counties would have the bulk
of the implementation and management responsibilities while the California Department of Social
Services would likely have oversight responsibilities. Regardless of program design, revenue collection
would be handled by the FTB and Department of Tax and Fee Administration (formally known as the
Board of Equalization) depending on the revenue sources used for the program.

The administrative and management needs under any program design include tracking and delivering
benefits, marketing, education, outreach, fund management, and designing and evaluating metrics for
program effectiveness. The administrative costs would differ, however, between the program designs.
For a tax credit, tax forms (and tax preparation software) would have to be modified. Under a community
water system benefit distribution program, the system would be responsible for delivering benefits via
bills, which would entail modifications to billing systems (and would have the previously-discussed other
drawbacks). For an electric or gas program, the utilities would also require new accounting procedures to
track W-LIRA funds apart from ratepayer contributions. For a benefit delivered via the California
Department of Social Services' CalFresh program, counties would need new procedures to ensure each
CalFresh recipient's EBT card was loaded with the appropriate dollar value. In independent EBT
programs, a new set of administrative procedures, personnel, and information technology resources
would be necessary.

The section below describes the challenges associated with each of the program scenarios. This is not
meant to be an exhaustive list (see Appendix for more detail), but rather provides additional factors that
merit consideration in selecting a preferred program design.

The Board welcomes input on program design and administrative elements that should be included in the
final report.

Benefit distribution via electric or gas bills

There are 65 electric and gas utilities in the state and each would need to modify its billing system to add
the W-LIRA credit. In addition, each utility would need to bill the state for its expenditures for
delivering the W-LIRA credit along with applicable administrative costs. Those costs might include
training for customer service personnel about the W-LIRA program. modifications to marketing, and
education, and outreach programs. The utilities would have to work closely with the State Water Board to
provide the appropriate benefit to each customer based upon water system rates and to modify benefit
levels when recipients move from one water system to another within their service area. The CPUC, the
State Water Board, the Legislature, and potentially the Commission on State Mandates would each have
a role in determining which administrative costs and costs to maintain data privacy would be recoverable
from the W-LIRA fund. In addition, some publicly-owned electric utilities would need to modify their LIRA
enrollment criteria and take significant steps to increase overall enrollment levels.

24

Benefit distribution via CalFresh

Each of the 58 counties would need to modify its CalFresh program to incorporate the new 
benefit. They would have to work closely with the State Water Board to load the appropriate 
benefit onto recipient EBT cards based upon water system rates and modify benefit levels when
recipients move from one water system to another within the county. As with electric utilities, the counties
would also face administrative costs associated with marketing, education and outreach, and billing the
state for the costs of running the program. (Even if revenues were sent directly to the counties, they
would still have to develop accounting mechanisms to ensure that revenues were aligned with
expenditures). Furthermore, enrollment in CalFresh is limited to citizens, and any additional federal
changes to the program such as additional eligibility verification requirements could impact enrollment
levels and reduce the number of households that would benefit from the W-LIRA. (See Appendix I).

Benefit distribution via a new EBT program

As described above, creating a new program to deliver benefits via EBT cards would involve
start-up and ongoing administrative costs, including costs to ensure data privacy, for the counties. The
counties would have to work closely with the State Water Board to provide the apprOpriate benefit onto
recipient EBT cards based upon water system rates and modify benefit levels when recipients move from
one water system to another within the county. Also, while a new stand-alone program could be clearly
marketed as a water benefit and be extended to all low-income households regardless of citizenship
status. Data management, including con?dentiality and privacy protections, would need to be addressed.
(See Appendix J).

Benefit distribution via tax credits

The FTB could apply the credits on individual tax filings annually based upon whether a flier met program
eligibility criteria. The FTB would have to work closely with the State Water Board to provide the
appropriate benefit to each taxpayer based upon water system rates and modify benefit levels when
recipients move from one water system to another within the State. The Legislature or FTB would also
have to determine how to calculate a benefit for a household that moved one or more times during the
yeah

Benefit distribution via water bills

As with the energy utilities, each of the nearly 3,000 CWS would need to modify its billing system to add
the W-LIRA credit and each 3,000 CWS would need to bill the state for its expenditures for
delivering the W-LIRA credit along with applicable administrative costs (not to exceed Those costs
might include training for customer service personnel about the program, and modifications to
marketing, education, and outreach programs. In addition, low?income households would have to
demonstrate their eligibility to their CWS, making the CWS responsible for verifying the income eligibility
and distributing the benefits authorized by the Board.

Reasons to consider providing water bene?ts through other programs

Many low?income households pay for water indirectly through rent because they do not have individual
water meters. Estimates vary as there is no perfect source for this information, but at least 29% to as

25

much as 46% of households in the state do not pay a water bill directly or are master-metered.54 Table 9
below shows how water meters are much less prevalent than electric and gas meters.

Table 9. Californian Households Reporting That They Do Not Pay a Direct Bill for Utility Service

Bill/service type Prevalence

 

 

 

Water 44%
Natural Gas 13%
Electricity 5%

 

 

 

Source: 2015 American Housing Survey data on California sub-sample

As illustrated in Figure 8, there are households with incomes under 200% federal poverty level (FPL) and
living in multi-family housing, an estimated 72% (or 1.4 million households) do not directly receive a water
bill and thus cannot access benefits from water affordability assistance programs.55 In the water sector,
master-metering has effectively meant that no affordability benefit has been delivered to eligible
households. 56

Figure 8: Low-Income Households That Do Not Receive a Water Bill

INDIRECT BILLING LEADS TO EXCLUSION OF MANY INCOME ELIGIBLE
INDIVIDUALS FROM WATER ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS

EthbFE-{Ql-p
for
?3 0,9)
is". (of

?4 


s.



of these individuals,

4.23 MILLION,
do not directly receive a
household water bill and
cannot access bene?ts from
water assistance programs.

 

54 Varying estimates derived from 2015 Census. American Community Survey data for California, the
Water Research Foundation's national 2017 report Customer Assistance Programs for Multi-Family
Residential and Other Hard-to-Reach Customers and from the 2015 American Housing Survey to refine
our assumptions of the number of master-metered accounts and the number of households each account
serves.

55 This estimate was made using data on the percentage of low-income (below 200% of FPL) tenants in
different housing types who were master?metered and sub-metered from the 2015 American Housing
Survey, which was then mapped onto the number of low-income households across the state derived
from the from the 2010-2014 American Community Survey.

53 While some drinking water systems maintain in their official documents that they allow income eligible
master-metered households to apply for drinking water affordability programs in conjunction with their
landlords, we have yet to identify a system which actually delivered a benefit to a non-metered customer.

26

Master-metering is particularly problematic for water affordability programs because eligible low-income
households are much more likely to live in multi-unit dwellings. Each of the options discussed above and
in Appendix would allow low?income households to receive a benefit regardless of whether they pay a
water bill directly or indirectly.

Conclusion
Drinking water costs have been rising much more quickly than inflation and the multitude of upward cost

drivers are likely to intensify, leading to even greater water rate increases across the state. These rate
increases will reduce affordability for low-income households already struggling with rising expenses for
housing. food, other utilities, and other basic needs. This report offers a set of options for rate assistance
programs with statewide coverage and meaningful benefit levels. These options have a significant cost,
but these are costs that California can afford given our existing ?nancial assistance to low-income
households for other basic needs. The Board urges stakeholders to provide constructive feedback on
this report so that the Legislature can act on water affordability.

27

 LOW

FOR LOVE OF WATER

Protecting the Common Waters of the Great Lakes Basin
Through Public Trust Solutions

 

 

 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 19, 2018

Jim Olson, President, Legal Advisor Email: Jim@FLOWfarWater.arg
Dave Dempsey, Senior Policy Advisor Email: Dave@FLOWforWater.arg
Liz Kirkwood, Executive Director Email: Liz@FLOWforWater.org
FLOW (For Love of Water) Web: wwaLOWforWatenoLg

 

Office: (231) 944-1568, Cell: (570) 872-4956

"Public Water, Public Justice?

FLOW Releases Model Legislation to Protect Michigan?s Public Waters and the Rights of the
People Who Depend on Them from Unauthorized Privatization

Traverse City, Michigan Drawing upon decades of experience and after a year of research, conversation, and
analysis in collaboration with many people and organizations, FLOW today released ?Public Water, Public
Justice,? model legislation designed to protect Michigan?s public waters, and the rights of the people who
depend on them, from unauthorized privatization.

The release by FLOW, the Great Lakes law and policy center, aims to focus the public debate and prime the
legislative process, while also offering a blueprint for crafting similar legislation across the Great Lakes Basin.

?Public Water, Public Justice," is available to the public on website and, in addition to the model
legislation, includes a two-page bill summary, legal primer, and full report presenting the legal and socio-
economic context of water rights and water crises in Michigan.

The release also marks the official launch of "The Campaign for Fresh Water,? a three-part initiative to
be unveiled through the fall to engage the public in protecting and ensuring public access to the Great Lakes and
groundwater in Michigan and throughout the Great Lakes watershed. The campaign?s overarching goal is to
safeguard the health and availability ofthe public?s waters for generations to come.

The model legislation, developed by FLOW with key input from many partners and stakeholders, aims to bring
Michigan?s colliding water crises under a comprehensive legal framework and rebalance Michigan?s priorities in
protecting its water and its people.

At the same time that water-bottling giant Nestle takes public water at virtually no cost and reaps windfall
profits, thousands of Michigan citizens both city dwellers and rural residents lack access to clean, safe and
affordable water. Over 100,000 Detroit households have suffered water shutoffs, and thousands of Flint children
and residents have suffered lead poisoning in the fourth year of an ongoing water and public health emergency.

"For over two decades, citizens have witnessed government leaders and elected officials retreat from their
paramount constitutional and common law duty to protect public water, health, and the common good above
all else,? said Jim Olson, founder and president, water rights attorney, and a principal author of the
model legislation. "This has resulted in a culture of indifference in which water, people, and health are last, and
political agendas and economic interests are first, an indifference that led to the water shutoffs in Detroit, the
Flint water crisis, and free sovereign water for a highly profitable bottled water industry, with nothing in return
for the needs ofthe people of Michigan. It is time to right the ship, and restore the public trust and paramount
common good on which water governance are founded."

153 V2 EAST FRONT STREET SUITE 203C 231.944.]568
TRAVERSE CITY, Ml 49684 FLOWFORWATERORG

FLOW is calling on Michigan and the seven other Great Lakes states to pass this model legislation in order to:

Affirm public ownership over water.

f? Protect sensitive water resources.
Prohibit the sale of water except for authorized bottled water by a licensing and royalty system.
Recoup for public purposes royalties derived from these bottled water sales. This model law places

royalties into a public water, health and justice trust fund to serve people and communities for specific
dedicated public purposes, such as replacing lead service lines or creating water affordability plans for
disadvantaged people in cities and rural communities.

"The seed for this project was sown in April 2017 during the hearing at Ferris State University in Big Rapids on
Nestl??s permit for its 210 million gallon-a-year bottled water well, and germinated during the Flint ?Water is
Life? conference held at Woodside Church in the fall of 2017,? said Dave Dempsey, Senior Advisor, and
architect of The Campaign for Fresh Water. ?That?s where large, organized groups of people from Detroit and
Flint joined environmental and water advocates from across Michigan to decry the State?s collapse of water
protection, and water service shutoffs, and ignoring its duty to protect these commons under the public trust
doctrine and constitution."

?My mother, Edna Leak, who passed away just shy of celebrating her 101st birthday was a compassionate water
protector,? said Lila Cabbil from the People's Water Board. ?She used to say, 'You know you can be fined for
not giving a dog water, there should be a fine for not giving humans water. It's not right!? As her daughter, I too
have seen firsthand in Detroit countless times how losing access to water takes a dreadful toll on health and
human dignity. This model legislation Public Water, Public Justice counters water privatization, protects our
water as a commons and human right, and works for water equity and justice. Let the tragedies of Flint and
Detroit shape our future so that the people of Michigan never have to worry about access to safe, clean,
affordable drinking water.?

FLOW sees this model legislation as a key effort to address the great inequity between bottled water companies
like Nestl? and the great suffering of residents in Detroit, Flint, and increasingly beyond as the PFAS-
contaminated groundwater crisis threatens drinking water supplies across Michigan.

?At FLOW we have faith that now is the time to shift our whole way of seeing and protecting water as public
above all. It is time that we reject a governance culture that puts these interests last, and instead provide one
that restores these shared common and paramount interests that respect water, health, and human dignity,?
said FLOW Executive Director Liz Kirkwood. ?It is our hope that this proposed law and report will inspire a
groundswell of people from all walks of life to forge a new, water-first framework that prioritizes protection and
public trust access to the Great Lakes and groundwater as a commons and human right.?

"This legislation affirms Michigan?s duty as steward of the Great Lakes for the public trust and its commitment to
the people of the state that water is a human right. It is based on the historic principle that water is for the
public and cannot be owned or sold. The legislation in this way codifies century-old Supreme Court rulings," said
Noah Hall, Professor of Law, Wayne State University Law School, Founder and Scholarship Director, Great
Lakes Environmental Law Center. "And it advances human rights, recognizing that water is our most basic
physical need. In this regard the legislation is a step forward where American law has been falling behind, as the
human right to water has already been recognized by over 100 other countries. The Great Lakes and the people
of Michigan deserve this legislation.?

For more information, visit website at 

 



153V: EAST FRONT STREET SUITE 203C 231.944.1568
TRAVERSE CITY, Ml 49684 FLOWFORWATERORG

Public Wafer, Public Justice Act:

ER revs orwmea A Report from FLOW

 

PUBLIC WA TER, PUBLIC JUSTICE:

A PROPOSAL TO PROTECT THE PARAMOUNT PUBLIC PUBLIC
WATER AND HEALTH FOR THE PEOPLE OF MICHIGAN AND GREAT 

A REPORT FROM FLOW
SEPTEMBER 2018

 

1 Copyright 2018 FLOW. All rights reserved. (?For Love of Water?) Public Water, Public Justice
Report and the accompanying summary of the model law, the full text of the model law and supporting legal primer
may be used for educational or general purposes without obtaining consent from FLOW, provided the user gives
appropriate credit to FLOW in conjunction with such use. Any commercial or other use or distribution of these
materials for private gain or pro?t is prohibited. Any proposed law based on these materials should be tailored to the
speci?c concerns, objectives, laws and policy of each state, province or country, and should consult the law
community with related legal expertise. FLOW and James Olson, principal author, emphasize that the model law
and associated research, analysis, and materials are a ?work in progress.? FLOW believes the advancement of
sovereign, common, public trust water, and the human and constitutional right to water and health and public justice
are dynamic principles subject to improvement through the continuing, broad-based collaboration with government
leaders, organizations and citizens to meet the challenges for water, quality of life, sustainable environment,
cmnmunities. and economies in the 21?1 Century. Contact FLOW at wmv?owforwatcrorg. 153 East Front Street,
Traverse City, Michigan 49684, (231) 944-1568.

 

153 V2 EAST FRONT STREET, STE 203C 231.944.1568
TRAVERSE CITY, MI 49684 FLOWFORWATERDRG

PREFACE BY JIM OLSON

For over two decades, citizens have witnessed government leaders and elected of?cials retreat from their
constitutional and common law paramount duty to protect public water, health and the common good.
Instead, government has favored special economic interests over the duty to safeguard water and health.
We have been living in 'a culture of government indifference in which water, people and health are last,
and political and economic interests are ?rst. Lives have been injured and turned upside
down because of this failure.

Detroit water shutoffs continue without real relief. Flint citizens continue to struggle and suffer, with
insuf?cient attention and lack of support to rebuild their community and lives. Michigan approved yet
another permit for Nestle to take 210 million gallons a year for free, except for token annual registration
and administrative fees. Citizens in Flint and Detroit are forced to buy bottled water because they don?t
have access to safe water. Detroit schools can?t open without bottled water. Ohio has dragged its feet
since the western one-third of Lake Erie turned into green toxic algae and Toledo?s drinking water was
shut down in 2014 and a tourist-based economy damaged. Recently, state of?cials declared a state of
emergency in Parchment, Michigan because of the risk of exposure to per- and poly?uoroalkyl substances
more than 20 times the 70 parts per trillion current state limit. This summer, an extreme rainfall
event in the Upper Peninsula overwhelmed infrastructure and caused untold damage and destruction,
largely due to government indifference toward the increasing intensity and frequency of weather events
from human-induced climate change.

Undoubtedly, jobs and economy are a'lf?ital to our quality of life, but in what manner and at what cost to the
lives of hundreds of thousands of people? How much externalized damage to the environment is enough?
At what point do citizens and leaders reject this indifference and favoritism toward political and economic
interests, and reestablish the overarching paramount interest in water, health and common good? What
should citizens, communities, towns and leaders do?

Over the last nine months, I have had the privilege to help FLOW ?nd a holistic approach that would
address these complex interconnected concerns in a model law. This past May, I circulated a draft of a
proposal for a model water and justice law with our Executive Director Liz Kirkwood and Senior Policy
Advisor Dave Dempsey and Board Chair Skip Pruss, highly regarded sages on public policy, water,
environment and energy in the Great Lakes Basin. After much discussion, review and collaboration with
many organizations and people, and many iterations of the draft law over the summer, FLOW is pleased
to release a model Public Water, Public Justice Law for citizens, communities and leaders in Michigan
and the Great Lakes Basin. The model law, bill summary, this full report and accompanying water law
primer are offered as a pathway for education, dialogue and enactment of a comprehensive law. This law
declares water as sovereign and held in public trust by state governments for the bene?t of citizens, to
protect their paramount right to safe, clean and affordable water, public health and a sustainable
environment in the challenging decades to come.

The seed for this project was sown during a Michigan Department of Environmental Quality hearing in
Big Rapids last April 2017. The hearing showcased the second application for a water permit by Nestl? to
divert 210 million gallons of groundwater a year from the headwater creeks near Evart, Michigan for its
bottling plant 30 miles to the south. Hundreds of well informed citizens ??om all over the state crowded
the large hall, lined the walls and sat on the ?oor, and one by one voiced their concerns. Citizens from
Detroit and Flint and leaders and members from Michigan?s recognized Indian tribes spoke passionately
and powerfully, decrying the damage, risks to health, inequity and injustice in Detroit and Flint, while the
state authorizes water for Nestle virtually for free and risks sensitive wetlands and cold-water creeks: Why
do you leave us without water for our homes when we can ?t afford a $200 water bill, when a bottled
water company like Nestl? gets a permit to take water virtually ?ee? Why is it that we and our children



were exposed to lead and disease, that we have to use bottles of water to cook or wash when Nestle'
receives hundreds of millions of dollars in profits a year? Why are you forcing our children to be
separatedfrom our homes because we are without water? Why is it that you can let a private corporation
subordinate 12, 000-year old glacial springs and creeks for the convenience of a label with the words
?spring water? so a water bottling company can serve a market niche and charge more per bottle? How
can you issue a permit?om ?spring water? in the same watershed where courts have already determined
that 400 gallons per minute for bottled water substantially impaired and harmed the upper reaches of a
stream and two lakes with nearly the same kind of glacial hydrogeology?

As we left the hearing room at Ferris State University that evening, I sensed I had just witnessed a turning
point in Michigan?s history. For the ?rst time I could recall, citizens from every walk of life had united as
one voice to stop the deterioration of our water, health and social justice. It wasn?t just hunters and
?shermen, conservationists, or environmentalists. It was African Americans, civil right activists, tribal
leaders, elders, children, business men and women, teachers, doctors, scientists and lawyers insisting to
government and its leaders that it was time for a paradigm shift in water law and policy that puts our
public water, health and social justice ?rst, above all else.

If the seed for this project was sown at Ferris State, it germinated during the ?Water Is Life? conference
hosted by Woodland Church in the fall of 20 17. Inspiring talks, informative and sobering,
stirring testimony from participants called for a new uni?ed, holistic approach to defeat the government?s
lack of accountability and action to protect water, health and justice. It seemed unconscionable that over
the past 30 years our government leaders had let people sink to the bottom in favor of a narrower political
economic agenda. There had to be an approach that tied together in one law a solution to the chasm of
inequity and discontinuity of justice between the extreme pro?t of bottled water and the devastating
tragedies in Detroit and Flint, and at the same time promoted resilient communities and a sustainable
economy and environment.

We faced many challenges. A model law would have to connect the inalienable nature of public water
held by a state as sovereign for the broader needs and benefit of its citizens with the need for individual
reasonable use of water for domestic, agriculture, industrial and commercial or private purposes. At the
same time, it was necessary to restore the paramount value of water and dignity of people and connect
this with public infrastructure and water services in Flint, Detroit, our suburbs and rural towns. It was
important to prevent companies from taking water from public supplies at nonpro?t rates and turn around
and sell it, without state authorization, at high pro?address the poignant,
unconscionable injustice between the hundreds of millions of dollars that packaged water companies
make off essentially free water from those in cities or small towns who cannot afford or are denied access
to safe, clean water because of contamination or failing infrastructure. Finallyprevent the continuing adverse impacts from the effects of large-volume water withdrawals and
diversions for bottled water that diminish and harm the public trust in our ?sh, habitat and public
enjoyment of our hydrologically connected groundwater, springs, wetlands, lakes and streams.

Today, we present the Public Water, Public Justice Law, its report and supporting documents with
immense gratitude to everyone who has participated and helped us ?nish and release this model law. The
model law is presented in three parts, designed as one model law or three separate stand?alone laws. Part
1 declares waters of the state sovereign, asserting a paramount right to clean affordable water and health
subject to the af?rmative duty under public trust law for the state to protect the fundamental right to
water. Part 2 prohibits the sale of water itself, but preserves the reasonable use of water incident to land
ownership or occupancy; accordingly, the law distinguishes the reasonable use of water in connection
with the land from the severance and sale of water in distant markets. If a packaged water company wants
to sell water, it must demonstrate no impairment to the public trust through interference with a reasonable
use, and that it will not diminish the ?ows and levels of wetlands, streams or lakes. Only if these strict



environmental standards are met can a company apply for a license to sell water from the sovereign state
under Part 3. Part 3 requires a license and royalty from the state. A royalty of 25 cents per gallon,
approximately 5 more cents for a l6-ounce plastic bottle, is paid annually into what we labelled the
?Public Water, Health and Justice Trust Fund.? The Trust Fund board consists of urban and rural citizens,
water engineers and professionals, representatives of government, local water systems, commerce,
conservation and citizens at large who are appointed by the Natural Resources Commission. The board is
charged with administering the funds for preferred dedicated purposes, including affordability, health,
medical monitoring, emergency infrastructure or groundwater pollution threats, help for local
governments and other entities like schools. The model law also creates public notice and comment,
hearings, oversight, accountability, government and citizen enforcement.

We could not have ?nished this project without the incredible support and water justice vision of the
Mahogany Foundation along with the invaluable contributions of many people and organizations. We are
deeply indebted to you all. The young, talented, dedicated staff at FLOW carried and improved the model
law and report. The peer review and thoughtful comments from water law experts Professor Noah Hall at
Wayne State University, Professor Oday Salim, now at National Wildlife Federation and University of
Michigan, Professor Nick Schroeck at University of Detroit Mercy Law School, and Skip Pruss helped us
assure that we had designed a comprehensive architecture based on sound principles of water and public
trust law.

Cyndi Roper, (Natural Resources Defense Council), encouraged us to move this forward, because of the
imminent public need. The constructive comments and questions from the participants in our Water Is
Life Coalition grounded us to address the needs of people and the environment. These extraordinary
people include Lila Cabbil (The People?s Water Board), Monica Lewis-Patrick (We the People of
Detroit), Sylvia Orduno (Michigan Welfare Rights Organization/The People?s Water Board), Claire
McClin-ton (Democracy Defense League), Wenonah Hauter, Mary Grant and Emily Wurth (Food 
Water Watch), Maude Barlow and Emma Lui (Council of Canadians), Peggy Case and Karen Turnbull
(Michigan Citizens for Water Conservation), Miranda Fox and Stiv Wilson (Story of Stuff), Shannon
Abbott, (Grand Rapids Water Protectors), Melissa Mays (Water You Fighting For), Holly Bird (Grand
Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians), Alissa Weinman (Corporate Accountability
International), Paul Baines and Luke Evans (Great Lakes Commons), and Lin Grist (Wellington Water
Watchers). Similarly, we received wonderful guidance from other colleagues, including comments from
David Holtz, Allison LaPlatt, Anne Woiwode (Sierra Club), and James Clift and Kate Madigan,
(Michigan Environmental Council). And I personally am thankful for the critical response by participants
in the People?s Water Board ?teach in? when I was given the opportunity to present an outline of the
proposed law. Finally, I want to thank Alice Jennings, Kurt Thornbladh and Tom Stephens, leading social
justice lawyers in Detroit, for letting me participate in the 1' City of Detroit bankruptcy court case
and appeal, an opportunity that gave me deeper insight into to what happens to families, homes, children
and neighborhoods when the paramount needs of public water and health are ignored by a government
bent on narrower agendas infected with political interests.

We invite you, the reader, to join with us and others in what could be the most critical challenge that we,
our children and their children will face in this century. It is past time that we right the ship of water,
health and the public trust in water and governance. All of us, beyond partisanship and self-interests, must
unite the principles of the human right to water, health and the public trust in water to promote
transparency, accountability and the paramount common good, now.

It is our deepest hope that a groundswell of people from our leaders, legislators, local governments,
organizations and citizens from all walks of life will work together to reach for and achieve a new
framework for water and health. This, we hope, will Spark a sea change in the way we value, protect, use
and sustain water for the common good. It is time to rebalance the scales of justice to promote and protect



these paramount interests and values from subordinate to paramount. If we do this, we will make good
decisions about water use, land development, infrastructure, community, health, energy, food, economy
and quality of life.

Jim Olson,
Traverse City
September 19, 2018



INTRODUCTION

The people of Michigan collectively own the waters of the state as sovereign but the lack of state
assertion of its sovereign ownership and duty to protect water and public health allows private for-pro?t
corporations to remove these waters and sell them for mammoth pro?ts without explicit legislative
authorization to do so. This is not only inconsistent with the need for state authorization to sell water that
belongs to all of us, but it violates the governmental duty to assure that the diversion and sale of water do
not impair our lakes, streams and wetlands, and it is a raw deal for the citizenry.

To prevent alienation of the public?s water and to protect sensitive water resources, particularly in times
of critically threatened groundwater, lakes and streams, and public health, Michigan and the seven other
Great Lakes states should pass model legislation like the model bill recently drafted and proposed by
FLOW and its founder and legal advisor Jim Olson, after review and comment from other experts and
affected interests.

This proposed legislation is designed to af?rm state sovereignty and public trust duty to protect the right
to water and health; require licenses for any water that is authorized for sale; comply with protective
water quantity, quality and environmental standards; recoup for public purposes royalties derived from
any authorized water sales; dedicate those royalties in trust to satisfy the rights to access affordable, safe
and clean water; assure communities can sustain public water infrastructure and public water sources;
provide public notice, participation and rights of enforcement for violations of governments? legal duty;
and provide adequate and fair funding to local communities for safe water lines and other needs of
residents, schools, businesses and public buildings and facilities. To do otherwise is to fall short of
government?s constitutional, public trust and legal duties as sovereign of our public trust waters to protect
the right to water and assure adequate, clean, affordable water and public health.


Nestl? Waters High-Volume Water Diversions for Sale of Bottled Water

In 2001, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to the Nestle
Corporation to withdraw and divert 400 gallons per minute of groundwater that feeds Sanctuary
Springs and the headwaters of a stream and two lakes. In 2003, a circuit court issued an injunction
shutting down the high-volume water wells at Sanctuary Springs after ?nding the operation violated the
common law of groundwater and the Michigan Environmental Protection Act. In 2005, the Court of
Appeals af?rmed the lower court?s ?ndings, found the operation caused substantial and unreasonable
harm, and ordered the lower court to assure adequate water in the stream and lakes by limiting Nestl??s
diversions for sale. Today, the Nestle Corporation is limited during dry months at Sanctuary Springs to an
average of 125 to protect the water courses, adjacent wetlands and rights of riparians and the public.

On April 2, 2018, the DEQ issued a permit to the Nestle' Corporation to extract up to 400 of
groundwater that feeds the headwaters of two creeks in Osceola County near Evart, 30 miles north of the
Sanctuary Springs wells. Nestl? bottles and sells the water across the Midwest. The decision came
in the face of over 80,000 comments in opposition to the proposed permit, signaling the strength of public
opinion. News of the permit?s issuance was met with widespread and understandable outrage. The DEQ
approved the permit without having in hand suf?cient existing hydrological data demonstrating the
increased withdrawal would have no adverse impact on creeks, wetlands and sensitive resources
associated with the headwaters of Twin and Chippewa Creeks. Michigan Citizens for Water Conservation
and the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians have ?led petitions contesting
the validity of the DEQ permit decision.



In sum, current state law, policy and DEQ decision?making allows a bottled water company like Nestl?
to:

I Obtain a permit authorizing a 60% increase in its water withdrawal without
demonstrating it can be done in an environmentally sound manner;

I Take waters of the state, divert them from watersheds and convert them to a commodity
for sale that reaps considerable private pro?t;

II Pay almost nothing to compensate the public for the use of sovereign public water.

This makes no sense as a matter of law and policy. It overlooks fundamental constitutional and legal
principles inherent in the public trust doctrine and the public nature of water and health and shortchanges
the public. It is an abdication of responsibility by the State of Michigan. Change is necessary to bring the
State back in line with its constitutional, statutory and moral obligations.

Detroit Water Shut-Offs and Flint Water Infrastructure and Health Crisis

Especially galling to many citizens is the fact that Nestl? pays nothing for the water it removes and sells
(an annual $200 application fee). At the same time, residents in Flint and Detroit and elsewhere pay
unconscionably high rates for water bills as high as $150 to $200 a month for a few thousand gallons
for essential needs. As a result, thousands of residents who are not able to afford these rates are cut off
from water service, or cannot use the water because of health risks, such as lead infrastructure and lead-in
pipe to their homes. Adding insult to lifelong injury, many residents are now forced to buy bottled water.

Nestle pays only a one-time $5,000 administrative fee for the processing of its permit and a $200 per year
application fee. Although Nestle does not disclose volume sales from its individual bottled water wells
and facilities, it is estimated that Nestle receives over one-half billion dollars in revenues a year off its
Michigan wells and bottling operations. The other 49 water bottling operatic] 1&3 in Michigan also pay to
the state at most only permit fees. Nestle, Aqua?na and Dasani make up a large percentage of bottled
water sales. Aqua?na and Dasani acquire water as users served by the Detroit public water system based
on extremely low rates determined by a legally mandated cost-based system where prices or rates are
determined by dividing the costs by the number of users. Bottled water companies who receive water
from public water and infrastructure systems turn around and sell the water at high pro?ts, similar to
Nestle.

 

While the federal government and state have offered some help to Flint during the crisis, the amount is
relatively small compared to the responsibility the federal and state governments bear for the existing and
future costs and obligations the city owes and will owe to maintain, improve, and operate its system. The
same is true of Detroit, but like Flint with decreasing population, the cost per resident and user is
disproportionately higher. Detroit continues to shut off water to thousands of residents, as it did beginning
in 2014 as ordered by Detroit?s emergency manager to improve Detroit?s balance sheet and chances of
exiting bankruptcy. Detroit, Flint and other residents who cannot afford high water bills lose their water
service for fundamental needs or rights to hydration, cooking, bathing and health. To date, the
affordability plans, water rate structures, procedures and other approaches to ?nancing water services for
those who cannot afford it have been inadequate, unjust and unfair.

In sum, current state law, policy and DEQ decision-making continue to place business, political and
economic interests before the paramount public concern and right to water, health and the environment
by:

- Lack of suf?cient funding for the water infrastructure, health and education for the
residents of Flint;



0 Inadequate funding for affordability or other approaches to assure every resident and
citizen adequate, clean, safe water;

- Overemphasis on private pro?t and ef?ciency;

0 Continued institutional discrimination against communities and residents facing serious
economic inequality and patterns of social and racial injustice; and

0 Resistance to liability and accountability.

Pounded to uphold the public trust doctrine as the central organizing principle for water resource
protection and stewardship, FLOW is calling for historic reforms in the laws of Michigan and other Great
Lakes states that put sovereign public water, public trust and the right to water and public health in their
rightful and essential place in this arena of policy and law. These water crises share common threads?
private pro?t ?rst, people second and a continuing lack of serious government commitment. The US.
EPA Of?ce of Inspector General just released a report that places blame and accountability on the
shoulders of the EPA and Michigan top of?cials. Michigan?s ?xation on saving cities from bankruptcy
with emergency managers eviscerated the democratic and constitutional protections that safeguard
people?s right to water, health and dignity.

THE GREAT LAKES COA-IPACT

The Great Lakes Compact arose out of concerns regarding a 1998 proposal to ship 50 tankers annually of
Lake Superior water for sale to Asian markets, an idea that met a ?erce regional public outcry. Ironically,
while the Compact bans or severely restricts water exports in pipelines, canals, aqueducts and other
infrastructure, it contains a gaping loophole that permits the export of water for sale.

The eight-state Great Lakes Compact and a side agreement among the states and the provinces of Ontario
and Quebec ban water transfers out of the Great Lakes in ships, trucks, rail tankers, pipelines, canals,
aqueducts and other infrastructure. Ironically, the Compact exempts from this ban the transfer out of the
Great Lakes Basin of water in containers 5.7 gallons or less in volume. This inconsistency is not based on
environmental impact or consideration of public trust law. It is purely an accommodation for an industry
that turns a public resource into private pro?t. The proposed law corrects the Compact?s inconsistency by
banning the out of Basin transfer of water in these smaller containers unless it is does not impair public
trust uses, is licensed by the state, and is subject to royalties that bene?t public water.

The Compact, however, leaves open the door for states to go beyond its minimum requirements. States in
their discretion may treat proposals to export water from the Basin in small containers as diversions. To
date, no state has done so.

THE LATEST NESTLE PERMIT

The original Nestle case illuminated a gap in Michigan law lack of statutory authority to govern water
withdrawals. In 2006, the state enacted a law governing such water withdrawals. Its central feature is a
screening tool that is designed to determine whether a proposed withdrawal will adversely affect a stream.
When the tool assessed Nestl??s proposed increase to 400 in 2016, it didn?t pass muster. The
company then appealed to the DEQ to perform a site-speci?c analysis. This resulted in the April 2 permit.

MCWC is now once again contesting the permit for 400 gpm, arguing the DEQ failed to follow Michigan
law. Its central argument is that the DEQ never obtained the required data on presently existing
environmental, hydrological and hydrogeological conditions at the site. This failure means that an
evaluation of the actual effects on water ?ows and levels and resulting environmental impact of pumping
at Nestl??s requested rate of 400 prior to issuing the permit isn?t possible, because the required data



was not provided by Nestl?. Equally disturbing, the DEQ rubber-stamped an earlier approval for 250 
without the required permits under the Safe Drinking Water Act and water withdrawal law. In addition,
although data from own citizen scientists was submitted by MCWC as requested by DEQ
public notices, as well as other data sets and analyses submitted by experts working in conjunction with
FLOW, that data and those analyses were not given the legally required full consideration by the DEQ. In
short, it appears that the interpretation of the law was skewed in favor of the permit.

WATER INJ USTIC 

At the same time that Nestle is taking public water at virtually no cost and reaping windfall pro?ts,
thousands of Michigan citizens both city dwellers and rural residents do not have access to clean, safe
and affordable water. Nearly 12% of US. households face unaffordable water bills. Thousands of
residents of Detroit have suffered water shutoffs, and the citizens of Flint, in the fourth year of a water
crisis, still do not have reliable access to safe drinking water. Thousands of Flint children and residents
suffered lead poisoning from their tap water because a perfect storm of state, local and private political
interests pushed Flint off Detroit water to temporary water from the Flint River, causing untold health,
nuisance, property loss, excess water bills and, ironically, dependence on millions of bottles of water.
Thousands of private drinking water well owners in rural areas have contaminated water supplies, and
there is no source of public funding to assist them in obtaining clean drinking water.

Federal assistance to local water systems is currently 74% below its peak in 1977. This has contributed to
the inability of public water utilities to address failing and aging infrastructure. An infrastructure panel
appointed by Michigan Governor Rick Snyder estimated a gap of $900 million annually over the next 20
years between water infrastructure needs and available funding. Both the Snyder and Trump
administrations have cut public funding and loans for infrastructure, putting pressure on municipalities to
privatize their water systems. The public interest demands that the state assure access to clean, safe and
affordable water to all citizens of Michigan and not subsidize corporations? sale of bottled water with
little return and privatization of public water systems with higher bills, mostly poorer service or
endangered health.

THE PUBLIC TRUST DOCTRINE

The Public Trust Doctrine holds that public water and certain common public property and natural
resources like navigable waters are preserved in perpetuity for public use and enjoyment. Citizens are
legal beneficiaries of this trust to protect their uses of water for fishing, sustenance, boating and
navigation, drinking water, bathing and health. Applying a banking analogy, the state serves as a trustee
to maintain the trust or common resources for the benefit of current and future generations who are the
bene?ciaries. Just as private trustees are legally and judicially accountable to their bene?ciaries, so too
are state trustees in managing public trust waters and uses.

In addition, any private, public or commercial existing or proposed use, diversion or discharge cannot
harm the waters of the Great Lakes by measurably diminishing or reducing the ?ow, changing the levels,
polluting quality or impairing the trust uses of the waters of the Great Lakes Basin. Furthermore,

those who seek to use, continue to divert or alter the waters of the Great Lakes Basin have the burden of
proof to show they will not impair, pollute or harm the water. If they do not satisfy this burden of proof,
through public notice, participation and government accountability, the proposed action is not authorized
and cannot be permitted under the public trust and other water laws of Michigan.

Lastly, under the public trust doctrine, the waters of the Great Lakes Basin can never be controlled by,
transferred, sold as a commodity or subordinated by private interests for primarily private purposes or

gain. Our rights to use the waters of the Great Lakes Basin cannot be alienated or subordinated by our



governments to special private interests. This means that all reasonable private use and public uses must
be protected against loss and harm to water and that these protected uses must be accommodated so long
as the public trust waters and ecosystem are not harmed and the paramount public right to public uses is
not subordinated or impaired. FLOW believes the public trust doctrine is a time-tested, ?exible and
indiSpensable framework for the management and regulation of water resources and the uses of those
waters, including removal of water for sale.

State Constitutions?cg, Michigan Constitution?s Declared Paramount Concern to Protect Water
and Public Health

Article 4, Section 51:

Sec. 51. The public health and general welfare of the people of the state are hereby
declared to be matters of primary public concern. The legislature shall pass suitable laws
for the protection and promotion of the public health.

Article 4, Section 52:

Sec. 52. The conservation and development of the natural resources of the state are
hereby declared to be of paramount public concern in the interest of the health, safety
and general welfare of the people. The legislature shall provide for the protection of the
air, water and other natural resources of the state from pollution, impairment and
destruction.

PRINCIPLES GUIDING A NEW POLICY

proposal for reform is based on the tenets of the public trust doctrine. The following principles
should guide state policy.

1. Water is public, held by each state as sovereign in public trust for the bene?t of the people.

2. Because water is public or held by the sovereign, it may be used within limits of reasonable
use in connection with property, municipal public water works, developer, industry, farming,
utilities. Such uses are considered proper if not unreasonable in extent and do not cause harm.

3. The reasonable or reasonably beneficial use does not mean a landowner, city or corporation
has the right to sell the sovereign water. That right can only be granted by the state as
sovereign; if a law has not granted the right of sale, including the wholesale of water intended
for sale in a container to an intermediate consumer, it should be considered unlawful or
unauthorized. 2

4. While there is no ?right to sell water? within the traditional notions of reasonable use, a court
or state legislature can (as did Michigan and states who signed the Great Lakes Compact)
rede?ne and set terms as it sees fit, so long as it bene?ts the public and does not subordinate
the state?s interest; this means the state or province (as Canada does) can license water to
private concerns for sale as bottled water, but it is subject to the sovereign interests of people
and overarching public trust principles.

 

2 The prohibition on sale of water would not prohibit the wholesale of water ?'om a public or quasi-public water
works system, where another governmental water system would distribute the water as a service for use by its
residents and customers. It would prevent, however, the wholesale waterworks system acquiring the water from
selling the water, as distinct from delivering the water as a service.



5. If a state chooses to license the sale of water within a narrow range of circumstances, such as
existing bottled water operations from public waterworks systems or bottled
waler salt-:- operations,3 it must do so with care consistent with the limitatinn on the state as
sovereign to divest its control of water for the bene?t of citizens or as a public trust; the state
should expressly declare that the waters of the State are not a commodity, that the license
does not commodify water but grants a privilege to sell within a narrow range of
circumstances and conditions; water remains subject to the sovereign and people?s interest (or
Crown?s if in Canada). It is a privilege, not a right. If the license is based on a withdrawal and
transfer that impairs materially or measurably the ?ow, level or quantity characteristics of
streams, lakes, wetlands, creeks or it interferes with others? use of groundwater, it cannot be
authorized or licensed; further, it must be determined by the state that it is primarily in the
public interest, and it must be based on fair and adequate compensation to avoid any subsidy
through an appropriation or transfer of water by the sovereign state, province or Crown.

6. A license is for a term, and subject to revocation or modification as a result of unforeseen
events, such as those attributed to climate change or breach of covenants or conditions.

7. In addition, where water is withdrawn from groundwater that is connected to creeks, streams
and lakes that are subject to the public trust doctrine, then it is considered part of one
hydrologic system, and the removal of water may not impair public trust usas or the
ecosystem.

8. Public trust uses protected from interference or impairment include navigation, ?shing,
swimming, boating and sustenance g, drinking water). This means the water removal
cannot impair thase uses. If it does, the removal is not authorized. The public trust rights and
uses are paramount, as well as the government?s duty to protect these uses. These obligations
and standards are continuing, perpetual, and, if violated, the license or removal of water can
be revoked.

9. Once bottled water is authorized, all who want to bottle and sell inside and outside state must
be treated equally in accordance with international trade law and the commerce clause of the
US. Constitution.

10. The state as sovereign cannot subsidize the removal of water for sale; unlike the use of water
in connection with land, the sale of water means severance and conversion of a right to use
water to water itself (as opposed to incorporated in a product) as a commodity; water can be
incorporated into a product, but it cannot be incorporated into itself. The severance of water
and conversion into a private sale breaches the fundamental limit and duty imposed by the
state?s sovereignty and overall public trust in public water. This should not be done without
fair compensation and protections from harm or risks, which would help avoid subsidy of, or
subordination of, others? use of water by private persons for a private purpose; this could
include a provision calling for fair and just compensation for granting the conditional
privilege of selling water, in this instance bottled water.

 

3 The requirement of a license, royalty and compliance with all other laws and regulations can implement
immediately or within a reasonably short period of time. However, if a state or province decides to prohibit or
grandfather existing bottled water sale operations, it should be done in a fair, non-discriminatory manner that allows
for the existing operation and withdrawal of water to be amortized or gradually phased out in a reasonable manner
over a reasonable period of time consistent with the exigencies and circumstances of each situation.



PROPOSED LEGISLATION
model legislation contains the following key provisions:

0 A declaration that water in its natural state and withdrawn and delivered through a public
water works system is held by the sovereign and subject to the duty to benefit and protect
for all citizens, and it is held in public trust where groundwater, springs, creeks, streams
and lakes form a hydrologically connected whole.

0 A declaration that persons have a human and/ or constitutional right to access safe, clean,
affordable, healthy water.

0 A prohibition on the transfer or diversion for purpose of sale of water apart from its
origination watershed or source-tract, except as narrowly allowed through stringent
application of water, health. envirnnineiual standards, licensing and emergency water
crises and needs as provided under the Act.?l

II Authorization of the sale watt-:r3 only if: it is licensed under the Act; it is
not ?spring water? (or not prohibited based on the common law non-diminishment of
streams, lakes, groundwater and wetlands standard); it will not interfere or impair
other uses or the environment; and private wells or municipal or public waterworks
systems, unfair subsidies below fair public rates or fees for the sale of water are
prohibited.

0 Establishment of a royalty 25 cents per gallon, about a S-cent increase in a 16?
ounce bottle whether the source of water is public waterworks, municipal system or a
private water source.

0 Creation of a Public Water, Health and Justice Fund, managed by a fairly constituted trust
fund board, into which royalties are deposited.

Dedication of trust fund revenues to promote: access to clean, affordable water,
or to municipalities who provide tiered or reverse-tiered pricing; public notice,
participation in local and state decision-making regarding access and affordability,
health and other needs of residents, and funding of public infrastructure, assuring
systems are in place for equitable, affordable access; implementation of
conservation technology and research; special health needs; assurance of
public water source protection; and a reserve fund that guards against depleting
the fund and provides a source of funds for unanticipated needs or circumstances.

0 Establishment of a trust fund board that is fairly constituted and representative of
the public and local governments, water and public health experts, and citizens,
subject to public trust obligations in water, with rights of government and citizens
to notice and hearing, public participation, and enforcement, including public water
protection and justice citizens? suits to enforce the rights, duties and procedures,
including costs and fees.

 

4 It is important to emphasize that water itself is not a commodity, and that if the state as sovereign allows
exceptions for sale of water by license, it is a privilege and remains subject to the sovereign interests of a state or
Crown interest of a province; in this way, the sovereign interest and public trust are not and can never be deemed a
commodity; under trade laws or constitution, a person or firm holding a license would recognize it is a privilege to
sell and does not create a right to the water itself or a permanent right to consider or sell water as a commodity.

5 It is recognized that there is a range of options to address the sale of water, including outright prohibition, 
prohibition of sale of water except presently permitted bottled water facilities and operations; (0) prohibition of
spring water sources, but allowing bottled water from municipal public water systems or emergencies, subject to
licensing and royalties, and compliance with other measures as proposed in this model law; as noted in the
accompanying text, the royalties would be held in a trust fund and the funds themselves impressed with a public
trust duty to ful?ll the dedicated purposes or preferred uses designated in the act and that are considered a
recognized public trust use, like sustenance and drinking water.



 FOR OTHER AND THE PROVINCES

The same public trust principles and public interest considerations apply equally in all Great Lakes states
as well as the provinces in Canada. Whether water is public and considered held in trust in the states or
Crown property in Canada, there is no reason why provisions tailored or taken from this model law
cannot be imposed. Protecting water as a public resource, and preventing its alienation for private bene?t
is not only prudent policy, it satis?es the obligation of state and provincial governments acting as trustee
of public trust water resources, especially to protect water as a public, human or constitutional right, for
the public health and needs of citizens, free of discrimination and unfair restrictions and treatment.

Moreover, it behooves the region to adopt a consistent public trust ??amework, licensing process and
royalty structure for proposals to extract public water for sale. Doing so will prevent the commercial
bottled water industry from exploiting a weak point in the region?s current water stewardship regime. It
will also establish a priority for protecting public water, health and communities ?rst and foremost,
safeguarding against private takeover or control of public water infrastructure and systems and assuring
funding for participation and processes for ful?lling this public trust and constitutional accountability.



FLQW Public Water, Public Justice Act 

 

A Legal Primer for Model Legislation

OVERVIEW

The following primer provides a brief legal background to model legislation, Public Water,
Public Justice. 1 The purpose of the primer is to give the reader a general framework and understanding of
the basic common law principles and constitutional and statutory provisions that guide water law and
policy. They include:

0 Water as public and sovereign for citizens;

The reasonable use of water connected with land occupancy or ownership;

The public trust doctrine that, at a minimum, protects navigable lakes and streams and the Great
Lakes, but more recently embraces the science that groundwater, lakes, streams, wetlands and the
hydrologic cycle are a singular system;

I- The paramount concern for water and natural resources under state constitutions, Michigan
Constitution, Art. 4., Sec. 52); and

The paramount public interest in public health Michigan Constitution, Art. 4., Sec. 51).

These collective principles provide the legal authority and, in some instances, the legal duty for state
governments to take responsible action, and to provide the standards and limitations necessary for
protecting the public?s paramount interests in both public water and health.

THE COMMON LAW OF SOVEREIGN OR PUBLIC WATER

After the American Revolution and formation of the United States, the common law concerning
ownership and control of water passed from the British Crown to each sovereign state in common or as a
commons; as a result, each state owns or holds water as sovereign and has a duty to control and manage
water for the bene?t of citizens. The navigable waters of lakes and streams, and the tributary groundwater
or springs that feed them are considered a special commons held and controlled under solemn, perpetual
legal principles, which protect fundamental rights and uses of water by citizens, known as the public trust
doctrine. Under these general principles, water is subject to the general obligation that government must

 

Copyright 2018 FLOW. All rights reserved. (?For Love of Water?) Public Water, Public Justice
Report, the accompanying summary of the model law, the full text of the model law and supporting legal primer
may be used for educational or general purposes without obtaining consent ?'om FLOW, provided the user gives
appropriate credit to FLOW in conjunction with such use. Any commercial or other use or distribution of these
materials for private gain or pro?t is prohibited. Any prOposed law based on these materials should be tailored to the
speci?c concerns, objectives, laws and policy of each state, province, or country, and should consult the law
community with related legal expertise. FLOW and James Olson, principal author, emphasize that the model law
and associated research, analysis, and materials are a ?work in progress.? FLOW believes the advancement of
sovereign, common, public trust water, and the human and constitutional right to water and health and public justice
are dynamic principles subject to improvement through the continuing, broad-based collaboration with government
leaders, organizations and citizens to meet the challenges for water, quality of life, sustainable environment,
communities, and economies in the 21St Century. Contact FLOW at 153 East Front Street,
Traverse City, Michigan 49684, (231) 944-1568. For simplicity?s sake, footnote references are limited to a few;
however, the legal references that form the basis of this primer can be found in several articles and reports on
website, Michael C. Blum and Mary Woods, The Public Trust Doctrine in
Environmental and Natural Resources Law (Carolina Press, 2013); Olson, All Aboard: Navigating the Course for
Universal Adoption of the Public Trust Doctrine, 15 Vt. J. Env. Law 135-191 (2015)

(http://Vjel .vermontlawedu/ f1 les/20 14/0 1 

 

153 1/2 EAST FRONT STREET, STE 203C 231.944.1568
TRAVERSE CITY, Ml 49684 FLOWFORWATERDRG

manage and protect these commons above all other interests. This means that water is not alienable any
more than government can transfer its sovereign powers and duties to protect the health, safety and
welfare of citizens.

In contrast to water as a commons or special commons held in public trust, the ownership or lawful
occupancy of land, whether private or public, came down as preprietary, exclusive and possessory,
alienable and transferable, subject to the paramount public interests in water and lakebeds protected by
the public trust doctrine. 2

Further, it should be understood that landowners or occupants do not own water; they have only a right to
the reasonable or bene?cial use of water in connection with the overlying land or land adjacent (riparian)
to a lake or stream. Traditional limitations on reasonable use under the common law prohibited a
landowner from selling water off tract or out of a watershed, because it was not a recognized reasonable
use. This is because, quite correctly, courts and society understood that all the landowners and occupants
in a watershed shared in common a right of reasonable use of the water moving through the watershed or
community, and that the sale of water would break this shared use or commons. As noted above, the
reasonable use of a landowner sits side-by-side with the sovereign interest in water as a commons and the
rights and limitations imposed on all users to protect the public trust in navigable lakes and streams or
their tributary waters.

THE PUBLIC TRUST DOCTRINE

Every state took title and control to the waters and bottomlands of all of the navigable lakes and streams
within its borders at the time of each state?s admission to the United States. This is called the ?equal
footing? doctrine.3 These state lands and waters are held in trust for the benefit of each state?s citizens.
The federal government reserved navigational servitude in the water and lands to protect the right of each
citizen to travel and engage in commerce, including shipping over these waters, ?shing, boating,
swimming, drinking water or sustenance.4

Under the common law, each state also holds these navigable waters and the lakebeds under them in
public trust for every citizen. Moreover, each state by common law has the power to determine the nature
and extent of the public trust in its waters, whether they are navigable or not, and to protect the public?s
rights to use these waters, lakebeds, and other public common property for the protected uses of public
land or natural resources, ?like navigable waters? that are deemed to be of a ?special character.?5 Once
water or land is determined to be subject to the public trust doctrine, the state has an af?rmative duty to
protect these public trust commons, and neither the state nor any other person can alienate or subordinate
this public trust primarily for private gain, nor can they impair the public trust or protected public trust
uses. Each citizen is a legally recognized bene?ciary of the public trust with the right to the certain
protected trust uses, including navigation, ?shing, drinking water, sustenance, boating, bathing,
swimming and other forms of recreation. The government is accountable to citizens, the bene?ciaries,
based on a solemn duty in perpetuity to protect these public trust waters, lands and uses.

 

2 The exception is where there is an overriding public interest, such as walking the shores of the Great Lakes below
the ordinary high water mark of navigable lakes or streams under the public trust doctrine. Glass Goeckel, 437
Mich 667 (2005); Gunderson State Indiana DNR, 90 NE. 3d. 1171 (IN 2018); State ex. rel. Merrill 1' Ohio DNR,
955 NE). 3d. 935 (OH 2011).

3 The most recent U.S. Supreme Court case on the subject is Montana PPL Montana, 565 U.S. 576 (2012). As
described by the Court, states took title ?absolutely? to those bottomlands and waters.

41d. Arnold 1' Mandy, 6 N.J.L. 1 (1821); Obrecht 1' National Gypsum 361 Mich 399 (1960).

5 Id, at 603-604; Illinois Central Illinois, 146 U.S. 387, 437 (1892); Obreclzt National vasum C0., 361
Mich 399 (1960); Class Goeckle, 473 Mich 667 (2005).



Since the 19803, when the California Supreme Court limited a water diversion by Los Angeles of a
tributary nonnavi gable stream to protect the navigable Mono Lake, courts have increasingly
recognized the singularity and interconnected nature of the hydrological cycle, and limited the use of
tributary streams or groundwater that affects ?ows, levels or interferes with riparian or public trust
interests in lakes and streams. In the past two decades, courts in Hawaii, Wisconsin, Arizona, South
Dakota and California have ruled that groundwater is subject to the public trust doctrine under the
common law or in conjunction with constitutional provisions.

In addition, states have passed laws that recognize waters of a state?groundwater, lakes and streams?as
a single hydrological system. For example, all of the Great Lakes states and the federal government in
adopting the lGreat Lakes Compact recognized the declaralinn or finding that the waters of the Great
Lakea Basin are held in trust for the benefit of citizens.6 Several Michigan water and natural resource
laws also have declared a public trust in water.7

CUM-MON Law 01: Lamas. STREAMS, AND GROUNDWATER

Under the common law in most riparian states located east of the Mississippi, off-tract or out?of-
watershed diversion of water for sale is either prohibited or limited to protecting the flows and levels of
the groundwater, streams and lakes shared by other landowners or occupants in a watershed or
community. This latter instance is known as the correlative rights doctrine. The Michigan Supreme Court
adopted this doctrine in 1917.8 Under this rule of law, a landowner or occupant of land cannot divert
water off-tract or out?of-watershed for sale if the removal of water diminishes the ?ow or level of a
marsh, stream or lake, or materially interferes with a neighbor?s well. The elegance of the off-tract or out-
of-watershed rule is that it protects and recognizes a legal preference for water as a local common
resource that feeds and nurtures the watershed where it flows.

In the past decade or so, states through their legislatures 0r courts have relaxed the off?tract or out-of-
watershed limitation. These states have created gaps or loopholes in this common law distinction, opening
the door for diversions and sale or exports of water off?tract or out-of-watersheds. The Great Lakes
Compact and a hand?il of state water laws allowing the withdrawal of water for the sale of bottled water
and other cases have opened the dour for the suit! in addition to the reasonable use of water, deSpite the
fact that earlier precedents limit the off-tract diversion or export of water.9

BOTTLED WATER FROM PRIVATE LARGE-VOLUME WELLS OR PUMPS

The relaxation of the off-tract limitation in groundwater law has led to an increase in bottled water
operations and sale of water, at little or no cost to the operators?whether water bottlers acquire control of
the water through private wells, like Nestle', or through public municipal water systems and pay only for
the delivery of water. In short, while the reasonable use of water in connection with land is integral to
ownership and in relation to other users of water in the same stream, lake or groundwater aquifer, the

 

5 PL. 110?342, See. l.3.l.a.

7 MCL 30101 et seq. (lakes and streams); MCL 32502, 32503, 32505; MCL 324.1701 et seq. (Great Lakes);
MCL 32702(l)(c), 32505 (groundwater, surface water, Great Lakes); MCL 324.31519 (dam removal); MCL
MCL 324.34105 (groundwater ,surface water, irrigation district agreements).

Schenk City ofAnn Arbor, 196 Mich 75 (1017).

9 Notable court cases include the Michigan Court of Appeals in the ?rst MC WC Nestl? Waters case decided in
2005, which ignored the off-tract limitation in Scher Ann Arbor, 196 Mich 75, and fashioned a new ?reasonable
use balancing test? consisting of a number of factors, although one of the factors at least retained a preference for in-
watershed uses and an overall requirement that assures adequate water in a stream or lake. Other courts have
adopted a similar reasonable use factor test based on See. 858, Restatement, Torts, 2d.



conversion of use of water to sale in containers or bottles severs the water from the public sovereign
commons. Except for an application and administrative fee to help defray the costs of the state?s review,
the actual conversion of water from a reasonable use to a right to sell sovereign water is at present
essentially free.

BOTTLED WATER FROM PUBLIC OR MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENTS

The same is basically true for the majority of bottled water labels, like Aqua?na and Dasani, who obtain
the water as customers from a municipal or public water department or utility service. A municipality
withdraws public trust water from a public stream or lake or connected groundwater, and then treats,
distributes, and discharges wastewater back to a public trust water course. The water and public
waterworks system or infrastructure is public from start to ?nish. The water originates as public sovereign
water, passes through public infrastructure and operations, and accrues revenues based on the nonpro?t
shared cost by statutory mandate to each user on the system, 10 is treated as waste, and is discharged back
to public trust waters. Customers on this public system receive water as a public service so they may use
the water. However, a bottled water producer then on its own converts the public water from a use to sale
of water without paying any additional fee for the conversion from use to sale or the right to sell the
water. In effect, the public waterworks system and its users who share in the cost of the nonpro?t service
pay for or subsidize the sale of water by bottled water producers or those who sell water.

It should be noted that there is no way out of the system for the user who must pay his or her share of the
cost: all customers who need or want to use public water from a public waterworks system must hookup
to the system. Even though a landowner or occupant of land has a right to reasonable use of groundwater,
they are prohibited from drilling and using their own well beneath their prOperty where a public water
utility exists. '1 On the other hand, a bottled water company can hookup and receives public water as a
user based on a nonpro?t cost fee or rate, packages the water, and sells it to a private consumer at highly
marked up market prices with substantial private pro?t that is not shared with the other users who help
pay the overall costs of the nonpro?t system. From a broader perspective, this is not unlike a private
company like Nestle who withdraws water as a landowner for use, but bottles it and sells it at a substantial
pro?t. In both instances, public water that is withdrawn and consumed as a public service or use, is
severed and diverted for sale in bottles or containers; the sovereign, public and others users are
subsidizing the seller?s gain or pro?t.

EXAMPLES OF CONSTITUTIONAL OR STATUTORY DECLARATIONS OF WATER As PARAMOUNT
PUBLIC TRUST OR INTEREST

This section features a range of constitutional and statutory provisions that address a public interest or
public trust in water and natural resources.

Arizona A.R.S. 45-141. Public nature of waters of the state

A. The waters of all sources, ?owing in Streams, canyons, ravines or other natural channels, or in
de?nite underground channels, whether perennial or intermittent, ?ood, waste or surplus
water, and of lakes, ponds and springs on the surface, belong to the public and are subject of
appropriation and bene?cial use as provided in this chapter.

 

[0?Sec. (2) The price charged by the city to its customers shall be at a rate which is based on the actual cost of
service as determined under the utility basis of rate-making.? MCL 123.141. The effect of this language is to allow
conversion of the rate or price charged for the water service into the sale of water at high pro?ts without paying a
royalty or fee that is correspondingly shared with the other users.

Michigan Public Water Works Law, Section, MCL 



B. This state may obtain any water that is necessary to maintain and protect public trust values
that are identi?ed by the commission.

In Arizona Ctr. for Law in the Pub. Interest v. Hassell,12 the court recognized the connection
between streams and groundwater, and application of public trust doctrine, which prohibited
transfer of public trust lands or waters for private purposes.

California, Art. 10, Sec. 2

Sec. 2. It is hereby declared that because of the conditions prevailing in this State the general
welfare requires that the water resources of the State be put to bene?cial use to the ?illest extent
of which they are capable, and that the waste or unreasonable use or unreasonable method of use
of water be prevented, and that the conservation of such waters is to be exercised with a view to
the reasonable and beneficial use thereof in the interest of the people and for the public n-?elfare

. . . The right to water water in or from any natural stream or water course
in this State is and shall be limited to such water as shall be reasonably required for the bene?cial
use to be served, and such right does not and shall not extend to the waste or unreasonable use or
unreasonable method of use or unreasonable method of diversion of water.

In 1983, the California Supreme Court recognized the public trust doctrine at common law in
National Audubon L.A. Superior Court. '3 The Court ruled that the City of Los Angeles was
restricted in diverting water from a non-navi gable water course where it impaired a navigable
public trust lake. More recently, with climate change impacts of drought, ?ooding, fire
intensifying, the courts and legislatures have recognized water, including groundwater, as a
public trust. [4 In a recent groundwater case, a court ruled that groundwater withdrawals were
limited by the public trust doctrine the same as connected surface waters. '5

Hawaii Constitution, Art IX, Sec. 1

Sec. 1. All public resources are held in trust by the state for the benefit of its people? and
the ?State and its political subdivisions shall conserve and protect? the State's water resources.

Between 2000 and 2017, the Hawaiian Supreme Court has interpreted this provision to
incorporate the public trust doctrine into the constitutional and common law of Hawaii. Waiahole
I '6 he public trust doctrine applies to all water resources without exception or distinction.? ?7
The state water resources trust thus embodies a dual mandate of l) protection and 2) maximum
reasonable and beneficial use. ?3

 



'36581z2d.709(CaL1983)

?4 State has an ?af?rmative duty to protect the public trust in planning and allocation of natural resources.? Center
for Biological Diversity FPL Group Inc., 83 Cal. Rptr. 588 (2008); however, for public trust to apply to
groundwater there needs to be a hydrologic connection between activity and harm to public trust. Santa Teresa
Citizens; 1' City afSrm Just?. 114 Cal. App. (:89 (3003}.

l5Environmental Law Foundation State Water Control Board and County of Sisikiyou, Decision, Cal. Ct of App.
No. C083239, Aug. 29, 2018 (?The County?s squabble over the distinction between diversion and extraction

is. . .irrelevant?), reversing Siskiyou Countv Superior Court, 217 Cal. App. 4th 83 (2013); Richard Franks, Public
Trust Applies to State Groundwater Resources (Legal Planet, Sept. 4, 2018).

I693 P.3d.444(2005)

?Mamn.

'3 Id, 451; In Re Water Use Permit Applications, 93 P. 3d. 643 (2004).



Michigan Constitution, Art. 4, Sec. 52, and Art. 4, Sec. 51 and Selected Laws

Sec. 52. The conservation and development of the natural resources of the state are hereby
declared to be of paramount public concern in the interest of the health, safety and general
welfare of the people. The legislature shall provide for the protection of the air, water and other
natural resources of the statefrom pollution, impairment and destruction.

While no Michigan court has interpreted ?paramount public concern? of natural resources of the
state to mean ?public trust,? the record of the Constitutional Convention of Michigan?s 1963
Constitution intended it to mean ?paramount public interest,? recognizing those natural resources
like water to be protected by a legally recognized superior interest like the public trust doctrine. '9
Moreover, Art. 4, Sec. 52 commands the legislature (?shall?) ?provide for protection of the air,
water and other natural resources.? The Michigan Environmental Protection Act has
been characterized by the courts as the legislature?s response to this constitutional mandate. 2? The
MEPA provides for the protection of the air, water and natural resources and public- 1st in those
from Further, the legislature has in several statutes declared the waters of
the state, including groundwater, to be held in trust or subiect to public trust protections.? as has
the Great Lakes Compact.23

Section 51. The public health and general welfare of the people of the state are hereby declared
to be matters of primary public concern. The legislature shall pass suitable laws for the
protection and promotion of the public health.

Section 51 precedes Section 52 and, notably, contains a similar constitutional mandate that the
legislature ?shall pass suitable laws for the protection and promotion of the public health.? Thus,
self-executing nature of Section 52 under the court?s decision in the Vanderkloot case would also
appear to apply to paramount public concern for public health. Because of the similarity in
structure and constitutional language of Section 51 with Section 52, the duty to consider and
protect public health is analogous to the duty to prevent degradation of water or the environment
under the 

Michigan Constitution, Art. 1, Sec. 17 (Due Process)

Sec. 17. No person shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself,
nor be deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process of law.

In Mays Governor, the Michigan Court of Appeals ruled that plaintiffs who claimed injury from
lead exposure from the Flint water crisis had a right to bring an action for damages to their person
and body based on the constitutional tort of denial of due process.25 Their right to clean safe
water and health is protected against deliberate indifference or other serious conduct by state

 

'9 Olson, James, Michigan Law, Sec. 1.2, Mich Const. Art. 4, Sec. 52, pp. 10-11 (Neahtawanta Press,
2001)

2? Vanderkloot State Highway Dept, 392 Mich 159 (1974).

21 Part 17, NREPA, MCL 324.1702, 1703(1).

33 E.g. Part 327, MCL 32702(1 Part 30101, MCL 324.30101 et seq.

23 ?The waters of the state are valuable public natural resources held in trust by the state, and the state has a duty as
trustee to manage its waters effectively for the use and enjoyment of present and future residents and for the
protection of the environment.? Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Compact, Sec. The Compact also
recognizes that the waters of the basin ?are a single hydrologic system.? Sec. 

3? Ray Mason County Drain Comm 393 Mich 294, 306 (1975).

35 Mays Governor Snyder, 231 Mich App 1 (2018).



of?cials. State of?cials claimed that these citizens had adequate remedy under the citizen suit
provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act but the Court rejected the
argument because the SDWA provided for prospective injunctive relief only, and that there was
no direct citizen suit provision for injunction or damages claimed by the citizens under Michigan
law. Thus, the only available remedy would be a claim for violation of a constitutional right to
health and person under the constitution. While the Court found a remedy directly under the
constitution, the case demonstrates the need for citizen suit remedies under a statute to protect and
enforce their right to water and health provided to them from public waterworks or water utilities.

Michigan Financing and Rates for Public Water Systems

Financing Public Water Systems, MCL 141.121

Sec. 21. (1) Rates for services furnished by a public improvement shall be ?xed before the
issuance of the bonds. The rates shall be suf?cient to provide for all the following:

The payment of the expenses of administration and operation and the expenses for the
maintenance of the public improvement as may be necessary to preserve the public improvement
in good repair and working order.

The payment of the interest on and the principal of bonds payable from the public
improvements when the bonds become due and payable.

(0) The creation of any reserve for the bonds as required in the ordinance.

Other expenditures and funds for the public improvement as the ordinance may require.

Setting Rates for Public Water Systems, MCL 123.141
Sec. 1 (2) The price charged by the city to its customers shall be at a rate which is based on the
actual cost of service as determined under the utility basis of rate-making.

In the federal bankruptcy Lyda water shut-off case against the City of Detroit, the bankruptcy
court rejected the notion that he had any authority to impose affordability plans or other measures
on the city water department, because rates were based on the costs spread over the number of
users.26 The court noted that affordability or costs of assuring basic water needs, in an emergency
or where residents cannot afford to pay their bill because of poverty or other exigencies, were not
listed as a basis for setting suf?cient rates.

Comment: In addition to Parts 1, 2 and 3 in the proposed Model Public Water, Public Justice
Law, a Part 4 or standalone law should amend the de?nition of ?rates? or ?costs? as the ?actual
cost of service.? The de?nition of ?cost of service? should include ?the costs and expenses to
assure affordability or other measures to assure basic water needs of residents are met.? This
would acknowledge the reality that water services are a substitute requirement to hook up to and
pay for water that would otherwise be part of their property right for the reasonable use of
groundwater as an owner or occupant of their home. If all are required to hook up to the system
and pay their share in the ?costs,? then the fair and equitable way to spread these costs across the
system should include the cost of assuring basic water needs affordability plans or basic
daily water limit at low ?xed rate, that is spread across all users of different incomes or types).

 

26 [a Re City ofDetroit (Lyda et 2014 W.L. 6474081 (U.S.B. Ct., S.D., ED, 2014); see also MCL 123. 141(2)
?The price charged by the city to its customers shall be at a rate which is based on the actual cost of service as
determined under the utility basis of rate-making? and The retail rate charged to the inhabitants of a city,
village, township, or authority which is a contractual customer as provided by subsection (2) shall not exceed the
actual cost of providing the service.?



Costs for purposes of budgeting for ?nancing should also parallel this expanded and realistic
de?nition of ?cost of service.?

Constitution, Art. I., See. 27

Sec. 27. The people have a right to clean air, pure water, and to the preservation of the natural,
scenic, historic and esthetic values of the environment. public natural resources
are the common property of all the peOple, including generations yet to come. As trustee of these
resources, the Commonwealth shall conserve and maintain them for the bene?t of all the people.

In Environmental Defense Foundation Commonwealth,27 the state?s Supreme
Court extended the public trust doctrine under Art 1, Sec. 27 to the revenues received by the state
for leasing ?sh and game and state park lands for fracking and other oil and gas development.
The legislature authorized transfer of a portion of those funds received from public trust state
lands into the general fund, rather than for conservation or public trust purposes. The court
prohibited use of funds received from Sovereign public lands and natural resources of the state,
because the funds are impressed with a continuing public trust purpose.28 Under Art 1, Sec. 27, all
public natural resources are subject to and must be managed by the sovereign owner of these
natural resources under the public trust doctrine. 2? The state, however, has authorized public
water utilities to enter into public-private partnerships;30 this increases the importance of
declaring the rights to water and health and obligations under the public trust doctrine in the
delivery of water services.

Vermont Statutes, 10, Sec. 1390 (5)

(5) It is the policy of the state that the groundwater resources of the state are held in trust for the
public. The state shall manage its groundwater resources in accordance with the policy of this
section, the requirements of subchapter 6 of this chapter, and section 1392 of this title for the
bene?t of citizens who hold and share rights in such waters. The designation of the groundwater
resources of the state as a public trust resource shall not be construed to allow a new right of legal
action by an individual other than the state of Vermont, except to remedy injury to a
particularized interest related to water quantity protected under this subchapter.?

So far, the Vermont courts have interpreted this law to impose a duty on the state department
of natural resources to protect the public trust in both lakes and streams and groundwater from
Violations of the standards or principle of the public trust doctrine. 32

 

27 108 A.3d. 140 (2014).

23 For a case involving impressing public trust duties and limitations on the funds received by a municipal water
authority for servicing waters of the state, Mayor and Council of City of Clifton Passaic Valley Water Comm 
539 A.2d. 760 (NJ. 1987).

39 Note: If Michigan?s MEPA is a legislative implementation of the constitutional mandate to protect the water and
natural resources and the public trust in those resources, then the duties to prevent and protect from
impairment should similarly extend to groundwater.

30 Act 12 of 2016 law authorizes private investment in public waterworks systems, including authority to
?enhance rates? beyond public utility cost-based approaches.

3' 10 V.S.A. Sec. 1390(5).

32 In re Omya. No. 96-610, V-tec., at 5.



Wisconsin Constitution, Art. 9, Sec. 1

Section 1. The state shall have concurrent jurisdiction on all rivers and lakes bordering on this
state so far as such rivers or lakes shall form a common boundary to the state and any other state
or territory now or hereafter to be formed, and bounded by the same; and the river Mississippi
and the navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places
between the same, shall be common highways and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the
state as to the citizens of the United States, without any tax, impost or duty therefor.

The Wisconsin courts have developed an extensive body of public trust law to protect navigable
lakes and streams, including the Great Lakes. In doing so, the sovereign ownership and control of
the state to its waters as a commons is recognized. While the Wisconsin public trust doctrine has
been limited to navigable waters, the courts have extended the public trust doctrine to
groundwater withdrawals to protect ?shing, boating and, presumably, ullter public rccugmized
protected trust uses. such as drinking Like Michigan and other Cirmt lakes suites,
Wisconsin, in adopting the Great Lakes Compact, declared that the waters of the state, including
groundwater, are held in trust for the bene?t of citizens.34

SUh'lh'lAR?t' CONCLUSION

Water is a commons held by each state as sovereign and public water for the bene?t of each citizen. Some
public waters, including lakes, streams and in some instances groundwater, are held in public trust. Under
public trust law, each state has an af?rmative duty to protect public trust uses of each citizen, as a
bene?ciary of the trust. The protected public trust uses are private and public uses related to navigation,
?shing, boating, swimming, drinking water, sustenance and other paramount public health needs.
Common law principles like riparian, groundwater and the public trust doctrine protect reasonable private
and public uses that connect to or bene?t the land or watershed as a whole. Historically, the reasonable or
public trust uses of water do not include the ?sale? or alienation of water out of watersheds for private
purposes and gain. Only recently have courts considered the withdrawal of water for sale, completely
severed from the watershed provided there is adequate water.

Because the state holds the water as sovereign, there is no authority for the sale of water unless expressly
authorized by law, such as through a license or franchise to serve a public purpose. In those instances
Where bottled water is licensed under a royalty system, the states should be fairly compensated for the
license or privilege to sell the waters of the state. Fair compensation means no ?free? or substantially
subsidized water, so a royalty or fee must be paid to the state. Moreover, a sale of water off-tract or out-
of-watershed should not be authorized if it would measurably impair or diminish the quantity or quality of
any lake, stream, marsh, wetland or neighboring well.

If done properly, there is no COnStitutional or legal impediment to declaring water sovereign, public, held
in public trust to protect public trust and private reasonable uses of water. In fact, these principles require
the state or local governments to prohibit impairment, diminishment of water quantity or quality, to
prohibit the sale of water or its privatization by private persons, and if allowed in narrow circumstances,
only where there is no harm, a public purpose, license, and a royalty or fee. The royalties or fees must be
placed in a trust fund and held for speci?c public trust purposes and needs.

 

33 Lake Beulah Mgmt. Dist. 17. Dept. of Nat. Resources, 799 NW 2d 73 (Wis. 2011).
3" Wis. 



Model Public Wafer, Public Just/be Act

FOR WATER

 

MODEL PUBLIC WATER, PUBLIC JUSTICE ACT1
This Act consists of three Parts:2

1. Part 1: Amends Part 327, 1994 PA 451, Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act (NREPA), MCL 324.32701 et seq.;

2. Part 2: Amends Section 17, Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), MCL
325.1017;

3. Part 3: Amends Part 5, 1994 PA 451, Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act (NREPA), MCL 324.501 et seq.

Preamble

A model bill to protect and sustain the reasonable use and public trust in the sovereign waters of
the state; to protect the sovereign waters of the state from unauthorized sale or imprOper
impairment; to protect the public access to and health in water and the public trust in public
water infrastructure and services; to provide for licensing and a royalty fee for the authorization
by the state as sovereign to grant the right to sell water lawfully withdrawn from the sovereign

 

1 Copyright 2018 FLOW. All rights reserved. (?For Love of Water?) Public Water, Public Justice
Report, the accompanying summary of the model law, the full text of the model law and supporting legal primer
may be used for educational or general purposes without obtaining consent from FLOW, provided the user gives
appropriate credit to FLOW in conjunction with such use. Any commercial or other use or distribution of these
materials for private gain or pro?t is prohibited. Any proposed law based on these materials should be tailored to the
speci?c concerns, objectives, laws and policy of each state, province, or country, and should consult the law
community with related legal expertise. FLOW and James Olson, principal author, emphasize that the model law
and associated research, analysis, and materials are a ?work in progress.? FLOW believes the advancement of
sovereign, common, public trust water, and the human and constitutional right to water and health and public justice
are dynamic principles subject to improvement through the continuing, broad-based collaboration with government
leaders, organizations and citizens to meet the challenges for water, quality of life, sustainable environment,
communities, and economies in the 21? Century. Contact FLOW at 153 East Front Street,
Traverse City, Michigan 49684, (231) 944-1568.

2 Altemately, the three Parts that amend Michigan law can also be structured as a single draft bill or a series of
stand-alone or ?tie-barred? bills. In addition to the parts presented, amendments may be required to the organic law
of public utilities or public service commissions. Some states, such as Ohio, have integrated public waterworks and
systems into public utility laws. Michigan?s organic law for the Michigan Public Service Commission authorizes
regulatory authority over water utilities, but it has never been implemented. In any event, public notice,
participation, claims, relief, and enforcement may need to be added. Moreover, rate, fees, pricing, ?nancing,
affordability, health, and access to adequate, safe water may need rede?nition of what is meant by ?costs? that can
be covered by rate and pricing structures.

 

153 V2 EAST FRONT STREET, STE 203C 231.944.1568
TRAVERSE CITY, Ml 49684 FLOWFORWATERDRG

waters of the state in containers not more than 5.7 gallons, and to establish a Public Water Trust
Fund dedicated for certain uses and purposes to persons and local governments, and recognized
tribal governments, and other public facilities or communities consistent with the intent and
purposes of this Act.

Part 1: Amendments to Part 327, 1994 PA 451, NREPA, MCL 324.32701 et
seq.

Section 1. Declarations and Findings (Amends Part 327, NREPA).

(1) The waters of the State of Michigan (?state?) are held by the state as sovereign and in
public trust for the bene?t of the people of Michigan.

(2) As trustee, the State of Michigan shall protect and sustain the integrity of ?ows,
levels, and quality of water, ?sh and aquatic habitat for the use and enjoyment by
citizens now and in the future.

(3) As trustee, and based on the paramount public interest in the waters of the state and
public health of its citizens, the state shall provide for and protect the right of access
to safe drinking water, water sources, public water supply, public waterworks and
infrastructure, public health, and ?shing, navigation, recreation, conservation, and the
reasonable use of water in connection with state sovereign ownership and control, any
rights of a tribe within Michigan reserved by a treaty with the United States, or the
ownership or lawful occupancy of land, not limited to domestic, agricultural,
commercial, industrial and public utility uses.

Section 2A. De?nitions.

(1) ?Affordability? means [as a placeholder: measures or other assistance to assure equal
access to adequate clean, safe water and sanitation, without discrimination,
interference or inequitable or unjust termination of the right of access to water by any
person or household of persons with insuf?cient income from hardship or disability to
pay the full rate or price for access to a minimum water supply to protect health and
sanitation for their ling].3

(2) ?Community public water supply? or ?public community water supply? mean
[reference SDWA de?nitions], and any community water supply under the control of
a tribe within Michigan recognized by the United States.

(3) ?Consumptive use? means the same as that term is de?ned in Section 32701(k), Part
327, NREPA, MCL ?Consumptive use? does not include the
withdrawal, diversion or transfer of water for the purpose of packaging water for the
sale of bottled water in containers greater than 5.7 gallons.

 

3 NOTE: There are several ways to achieve access to adequate clean, safe water, including assured minimum water
quantities per month at ?xed rates, tiered public pricing or rate structures, federal and state assistance, or rede?ning
what constitutes a ?cost? shared across the number of users of the system.



(4) ?Department? or ?department? means the Department of Environmental Quality for
purposes of interpreting Section 32723, Part 327, NREPA, 1994 PA 451, and Section
17 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, MCL 325.1017; the term ?department? means the
Department of Natural Resources for purposes of interpreting Part 5 of the NREPA,
1994 PA 451.

(5) ?Disadvantaged Community? shall have the same meaning as de?ned in Part 54, of
the NREPA, MC 324.5402 or 42 USC 3OUj-12(d} and accompanying regulations.4

(6) ?Diversion? means diversion as de?ned in Section 32701(p), Part 327, NREPA, MCL
and also for the purpose of this Act, the term ?diversion? means the
transfer of water by any means, including in a container intended for immediate or
end?use consumer from its source in one watershed to another watershed.

(7) ?License? as used in this Act means the authorization pursuant to Section 502 and
503, Part 5, NREPA, MCL 324.502 and 503 by the state as sovereign to allow the
withdrawal, removal, diversion or transfer of waters of the state by any person for the
purpose of the production and sale of bottled water.

(8) ?Person? means ?person? as de?ned in Part 3, NREPA, MCL 

(9) ?Private water source? or ?source watershed? means the location from which a
withdrawal from waters of the state originates, including a non-community water
supply as de?ned in the Safe Drinking Water Act, MCL 325.1001 et seq.

(10) ?Public domain? in Section 301(i), Part 3, NREPA, MCL 324.301(i) is amended to
mean all land and waters of the state owned in its proprietary or sovereign capacity or
land deeded or conveyed to the state under state law.

(11) ?Public water supply? means a community public water supply or waterworks as
de?ned in the Safe Drinking Water Act, MCL 325.1001 et seq.

(12) ?Royalty fee? means the compensation to the state as sovereign for the authorization
of a license to allow a withdrawal, diversion or transfer by any person from the
sovereign waters of the state for the purpose of producing and packaging water for the
sale of bottled water.

(13) ?Sale of water? means the production, packaging or delivery of water from a water
source or public water supply in containers or by any other means in exchange for
money or other consideration.

 

4NOTE: There are various de?nitions of assuring affordability in disadvantaged communities. See Protecting
Drinking Water in the Great Lakes: A Primer an Existing State Policies and Using the Safe Drinking Water/let
American Rivers and Great Lakes Env. Law Center, 2018, pp. 36?37.



(14) ?Sale of bottled water? means water withdrawn from a water source or public water
supply and transferred or diverted to a plant or other facility for the sale of water in a
container or package of not more than 5.7 gallons.

(15) ?Spring water? means ?spring water? as de?ned in 21 CPR. 165.110 for bottled
water.

(16) ?Watershed? means the watershed of primary rivers and the sub-watersheds of their
tributary streams and creeks.

(17) ?Waters of the state? means the term ?waters of the state? as de?ned in Section
32701(rr), NREPA, MCL 324.3270], and includes water withdrawn from the waters
of the state and delivered through public waterworks or public water utility systems.

(18) ?Withdrawal? has the same meaning as de?ned in Section 32701 NREPA, MCL
324.32701.

Section 2B.

The de?nitions in Section 2B of this Act and Section 32701, MCL 324.32701, shall have
the same meaning for purposes of Parts 5 and 19A, NREPA, 1994 451, as amended, and
Section 17 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, MCL 325.1017.

Section 3. Prohibition of Diversion or Transfer for the Sale of Water.

Except as provided in Sections 3A, 4, 5 and 6 of this Act, no waters of the state shall be
withdrawn, taken, diverted or transferred out of any watershed of the state for the purpose
of the sale of water in any size container, package or in any other manner to another
watershed within or outside of the territorial boundaries of the state.

Section 3A. Exceptions to Prohibitions of Section 3.

Subject to the provisions and standards of this Act, the prohibition in Section 3 of this
Act and Part 327, MCL 324.32704, does not apply to any one of the following:

(1) the withdrawal, treatment, distribution and delivery of water services by a
public or private water utility or community public water supply or
waterworks system (this exception does not apply to the distribution or
delivery of water to a person who receives water from a public waterworks or
public water utility system for the purpose of the sale of water).

(2) products into which water from a private well or public waterworks system or
public water utility is incorporated or water incorporated into or used in a
product other than water itself (Note: it is declared for purposes of this Act,
that water cannot be incorporated into itself and therefore is not a product).



(3) the sale of water on premises from a private well or public waterworks system
in a glass, bottle or other container, incidental to a wholesale or retail
restaurant, food service or other business or commercial operation.

(4) the sale of water of the state in containers with a capacity of not more than 5.7
gallons, but only if all of the following standards are duly established and
determined to be met by the Department of Environmental Quality: 5

a. determination of full compliance with the requirements, standards, and
determinations of Section 17 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, MCL
325.1017, as amended, including the provisions in Part 2 of this Act.

b. determination that the water source that is transferred or diverted is not
spring water as de?ned in 21 CPR. 165.110.6

0. determination of full compliance with the requirements of Section
32723, Part 327, MCL 324.32723; if the applicant submits a
groundwater or other water model to predict the effects and adverse
impacts, the determination under this subsection must include a
?nding that the model is consistent with an adequate characterization
of ?ows, levels and water quality based on actual hydrological,
hydro geolo gical, water quality and environmental conditions.

d. determination that the withdrawal and transfer for the sale of water
will not impair or interfere with another water source, community
public water supply or any other public or private water well,
infrastructure, waterworks system or with the water services and the
public health, safety and welfare.

e. determination that the withdrawal, removal, transfer and the sale of
bottled water is in compliance with all other federal, state, local law
and regulations, including any rights of a tribe within Michigan
reserved by a treaty with the United States.

f. issuance of license and payment of a royalty as authorized and
determined by the Department of Natural Resources as the designated
trustee of the sovereign waters of the state to sell bottled water in
containers with a capacity of not more than 5.7 gallons, as provided in
Part 3 of this Act.

Section 3B. Prohibition of Section 3 does not apply to recognized reasonable use of waters
of the state.

 

5 NOTE: Subsection (4) is a placeholder. Alternative approaches include no exception for bottled water with an
amortization provision consistent with potential ?takings? claims under US. Constitution or constitution and
investor damage or anti-discrimination claims under GATT, NAFTA, or other applicable trade laws; limited to
existing bottled water sale production and sale facilities and operations, subject to compliance with all other
provisions ofthis Act (this may require analysis of state sovereignty over water or public trust waters and the anti-
discrimination provisions of applicable trade law).

5 Alternatively, this provision could allow withdrawal and transfer of?spring water? but ?only ifit is in compliance
with the requirements of Part 2, Section 2(5) ofthis Act.? (See Section and below).



The prohibition of Section 3 does not apply to a lawful and reasonable use of the waters
of the state in connection with the use and enjoyment of land by an owner or occupant or
their guests, including any lawfully recognized traditional and arti?cial reasonable uses
of water such as agriculture, manufacturing, generation of electricity or an industrial use
or process. Except as provided in Part 2, Section 3A of this Act and subject to Part 3 of
this Act, the sale of water withdrawn from the waters of the state is not a reasonable use.

Section 4. Rule Making Authority.

The department shall exercise its general powers and authority to promulgate rules and
regulations to implement the provisions of this Part.

Part 2: Amendments to Section 17, Safe Drinking Water Act, MCL 325.1001

et seq.

Section 1.

Section 4, Safe Drinking Water Act, 1976 PA 399, MCL 325.1004, is amended as
follows:

Section 2.



(12) A community or non?community public water supply or other water source
or supply facility or operation shall not furnish water for the sale of bottled water
unless permitted pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act, 1976 PA 399, and
Parts 1, 2 and 3 of this Act, including obtaining a license pursuant to Sections 1, 2
and 3 of Part 3 of this Act, being amendments to MCL 502 and 503, Part 5,
NREPA, MCL 324.501 et seq, and in compliance with any other requirements of
federal, state and local laws or ordinances.

Section 1017, Safe Drinking Water Act, 1976 PA 399, MCL 325.1017, is amended as
follows:





(5) In addition to all other requirements of Parts 1 and 2 of this Act, a person
shall not be permitted to withdraw and transfer more than 50,000 gallons a day for
the sale of bottled water as spring water unless it is established by the applicant
and determined by the department that:

there is suf?cient existing actual data and information that
characterizes to the fullest extent possible the hydrological and
geological conditions required to accurately measure and calculate the
effect on the ?ows, levels and other physical conditions of the
groundwater, springs, wetlands, creeks, streams, lakes or ponds that
have a direct hydrological connection to the spring water source; and

based on the actual data and information required by the preceding
subsection the withdrawal and transfer of spring water will not

measurably diminish and impair the ?ow, level and other physical
parameters of the wetlands, creeks, streams, lakes or ponds, ?sh and
other wildlife and plant habitat or the public trust in those features,
wildlife and habitat.

(6) Any decision or determination required by Part 2 of this Act shall take into
account and be conditioned on the potential for, or occurrences of, increased
intensity and frequency of weather events due to changes in climate.

(7) An approval of a permit by the department under subsection (3) of Section
1017, 1976 PA 399, shall not take effect unless the person also has obtained a
valid license from the state for the sale of water pursuant to Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 of
Part 3 of this Act, being amendments to MCL 324.502 and 503.

Section 3. Rule Making Authority.

The department shall exercise its general powers and authority to promulgate rules and
regulations to implement the provisions of this Part.

Part 3: Amendment for Licensing by Department of Natural Resources of the
Sovereign Public Waters of the State for the Sale of Bottled Water

Section 1.

Section 502, Part 5, NREPA, 1994 PA 451, MCL 324.502 is amended as follows:

Section 2.

The Department of Natural Resources [?department?] and Natural Resources
Commission [?commission?] are authorized to issue a license to withdraw, take,
remove, and transfer from the sovereign waters of the state for the sale of bottled
water only if the sale of waters of the State is in full compliance with Parts 1, 2,
and 3 of this Act.

Part 5, NREPA, 1994 PA 451, MCL 324.503, is amended by adding a new Section 3 as
follows:



The department and commission shall not issue or enter into any license or other
agreement pursuant to Section 6 for Withdrawal, taking, or transfer of the waters
of the state to a person who proposes to engage in the sale of bottled water unless
all of the following are met:

(1) the applicant has submitted a ?nally approved permit or, in the event no
permit is required because of a preexisting bottled water facility and
operation, a certi?cate of compliance from the Department of Environmental
Quality that the applicant has complied with all of the requirements and



standards of Section 17 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, 1976 PA 339, MCL
325.1017 and Parts 1 and 2 ofthis Act.

(2) for the licensing for the sale of bottled water from a water source or non?
community water supply from the waters of the state, the applicant has
submitted a certi?ed copy of the ?nal permit or certi?cate of compliance with
requirements and standards for the withdrawal pursuant to Part 327, NREPA,
1994 PA 451, including Section 32723, Part 327, MCL 32432723, and the
Safe Drinking Water Act, MCL 325.1001 et seq., as amended.

(3) for the licensing for the sale of bottled water from a municipal or community
public waterworks or public water utility supply, the applicant has submitted a
certi?ed permit or approval of the water source and proof that it is in
compliance with all other legal requirements from the local department, board
or local government that owns and operates the community public waterworks
or public water system, including the Safe Drinking Water Act, MCL
325. 1001.

(11 Before approval of the license, the department and commission shall provide

written notice of the draft license with conditions and proposed royalty fee as
provided in Section 8 of this Act, and in addition such notice shall be provided at
least 60 days to any local unit of government, any community or public
waterworks or water supply district, authority or department, any tribe within
Michigan recognized by the United States, and the applicant; published in a
prominent newspaper with general circulation in the locale of the water source or
supply; and the notice, application and supporting documents shall also be posted
on the department website in a conspicuous manner. The commission may on its
own or upon request of an interested person provide for a public hearing, which
shall be given the same public notice as provided in this section; the public notice
shall provide at least a 45-day comment period before approval of the license. On
request of a local unit of government or recognized tribal sovereign government
in which the water source or supply is located, the department and a
representative of the commission shall meet and consult with the local unit of
government or tribe not less than 15 days before approval of the license.

(4) Before approval and issuance of the license, the commission and department
shall evaluate, assure and duly establish that all of the following are met:

applicant has complied with Section 17 of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, MCL 325.1017, as amended by Part 2 of this Act;

applicant has shown, based on subsection above and all other
available information, including public notice, hearing, participation
and comments or consultation with local government, sovereign tribes
recognized by treaty with the federal government or other interested
persons, that the withdrawal and transfer of the waters of the state for
the sale of bottled water is substantially in the public interest and will
not impair the public trust and public health, safety and welfare;

 applicant has complied with the application and royalty fees required
by Section 3 of this Part;

the department and commission may impose conditions in the license
or other agreement as required for the protection and promotion of the
waters of the state, public trust in those waters and the public health,
safety and welfare of citizens and local community.

Section 3.
Section 503, Part 5, NREPA, is amended by adding Section 503.B, as follows:

(1) Before processing the application for a license, the applicant shall pay an
application fee of $500 and a fee of $5,000 or more as determined by the
department for reimbursement of the department?s expenses for processing
and evaluating the application.

(2) The applicant shall pay a royalty fee for the right to withdraw, remove and
transfer the sovereign waters of the state or community public water supply
for purposes of the sale of bottled water as follows:

The licensee shall pay a sovereign water royalty fee of not less than 25
cents per gallon for the right to withdraw, take and transfer the waters
of the state for the sale of bottled water. Subject to public notice,
hearing and comment as provided for in Part 5, NREPA or the rules
promulgated pursuant to Section 11 Part 5, NREPA, the commission
may hereafter promulgate a higher fee per gallon based on a
reasonable evaluation and determination of fair and adequate
economic value for the right of sale of bottled water from the waters of
the state.

The licensee or the community or municipal public water supply
department or local government, as the case may be, shall file on the
?rst day of each month, beginning 30 days after the date of the license,
a written summary and report, with supporting data and information,
the total volume of water withdrawn. The licensee shall pay the royalty
fee on a quarterly basis, beginning with the ?rst day of the quarter of
the year after the date of the license. The department and commission
may impose a late fee according to a schedule of fees, payment, or
interest established by the commission pursuant to notice and hearing
as provided in Part 5, NREPA or rules promulgated by the
connoission.7

 

7 The following optional provision could be added to coordinate the licensure and royalty requirements of this Part
with the need to address the ubiquitous waste from plastic bottles and other containers and packages: [This provision
is optional] If the state legislature subsequent to the effective date of this act enacts a container deposit return
program for bottled water containers or packages, the licensee may request from the commission and department a 5
cents per gallon credit toward the royalty fees due under its license; and the commission and department shall
cooperate with the licensee to implement the royalty credit effective within one year of the effective date of the
enactment of such a deposit return program.



(3) The department shall deposit the royalty fee collected from each licensee into
the ?Michigan Public Water, Health and Justice Trust Fund? (?trust fund?)
established pursuant to Section 4 of this Act in accordance with all applicable
laws and regulations.

(4) The department?s expenses, including all reasonable expenses related to
collecting and managing the fees, shall be paid and net royalty fee payment
made to the trust fund on a quarterly basis, beginning with the third quarter
after the effective date of this Act or the issuance of the ?rst license under this
Act, whichever occurs ?rst.

(5) Where the water is from a water source or non-community supply that is from
the waters of the state, the net royalty proceeds, less costs and expenses (?net
proceeds?), from each licensee shall be deposited in the Michigan Public
Water, Health and Justice Trust Fund (?trust fund?) as provided in Section 4.
The net proceeds derived from the licensing of the sovereign waters of the
state for the sale of bottled water shall be held in trust for the express purposes
and dedicated uses of this Act, and none other.

(6) Where the water is from a community public water supply or waterworks,
which withdraws and distributes the waters of the state as a public service
within its lawful territory, the net proceeds from each license or other
agreement shall be deposited in the trust fund as provided in Section 4. The
net proceeds derived from the licensing of the sovereign waters of the state for
the sale of bottled water shall be held in trust for the purposes and dedicated
uses of this Act. Further, the trust fund board shall allocate an amount up to 25
percent of the net proceeds in any calendar year to the community public
water supply department, district or authority from which the water is
withdrawn, taken, diverted or transferred.

Section 4. Amend Part 19, NREPA, to add Part 19a, to establish the Michigan Public
Water, Health and Justice Trust Fund.

(1) There is established a Michigan Public Water, Health and Justice Trust Fund (?trust
fund?) by amendment of Part 19 of the NREPA, through the addition of Part 193 to
the NREPA, 1994 PA 451, which shall consist of all bonuses, rentals, delayed rentals,
royalties, penalties or ?nes for non-compliance collected by, or reserved by, the state
under the licenses for sale of bottled water established by this Part 19a.

(2) The trust fund, including but not limited to, all net proceeds from license royalties,
earnings, principal and interest, are subject to a public trust for the dedicated purposes

set forth in subsection 5 of this Part.

(3) The trust fund may receive appropriations, money or other things of value.

 



(4) The trust fund may not be appropriated or allocated for any purpose other than the
dedicated purposes set forth in subsection 5 of this Part. The fund shall establish a
reserve fund from 10 percent of the revenues of each year for future contingencies
based on successive 10?year plans to cover unexpected events or emergencies for one
or more of those dedicated purposes.

(5) The State Treasurer shall direct the investment of the trust fund. The State Treasurer
shall have the same authority to invest the assets of the trust fund as is granted to an
investment ?duciary under the public employee retirement system investment act,
1965 PA 314.

(6) The department shall annually prepare a report containing an accounting of revenues
and expenditures from the trust fund in the same manner as provided in Section 1902
(4), Part 19, MCL 

Section 5. Dedicated Purposes and Allocations of Trust Fund.

(1) Subject to the limitations of this Part, the interest and earnings of the trust fund in any
one state ?scal year may be expended in subsequent state ?scal years only in the
order of, and for, the following purposes and limitations:

assistance for water affordability plans or other measures, including income
affordability, assured low?cost minimum water use and conservation, innovative
pricing, rates, tiers of water use and conservation, to assure equitable and
affordable access to clean, safe water and sanitation;

protection, conservation, ef?ciency, sustainability and cleanup to assure safe,
clean and adequate groundwater and surface water sources for drinking water and
water supplies within the state, including but not limited to, new technologies,
green infrastructure and enhanced resiliency and adaptability to predict extreme
weather events or climatic changes;

(0) protection of public health and individual health needs directly related to
investigation, medical examination and water quality and medical monitoring;

location, protection, repair, maintenance or improvement to the municipal or
community public water supply or waterworks system;

repair, improvement or replacement of any line that is determined to be a health
risk to those who occupy any single or multi-family residential dwelling unit that
connects to the public water main or pipeline system;

establishment of local or statewide returnable or recycling programs for plastic
bottles or packages used for the sale of bottled water;

emergency assistance for speci?c disadvantaged communities or neighborhoods
for, and in advance of, any of the above dedicated purposes set forth in this
Section 

(2) Any interested municipal public water supply department, district, authority, or local
government, or any tribe within Michigan recognized by the United States, or any person
who lives within the territory or is served by a community public water supply may apply



for a grant for one or more of the dedicated purposes of the trust fund. The
application, process, public notice, meetings, and decisions will be processed by the
trust fund board. The trust fund board shall apportion and allocate the grants of
available funds in any given hearing in a fair and proportionate manner among
applicants that in the discretion of the trust fund board best meets the intent and
dedicated purposes of this Act and the standards or criteria established by rules
promulgated pursuant to Section 7 of this Part and Section 11 of Part 5, 
except that there shall be a preference for up to 30 percent of the fund distributed
in any year for assistance for affordability, disadvantaged communities and public
health, and (ii) not more than 30 percent in any year shall be distributed for repair,
replacement or improvement of community public water supply and public water
infrastructure waterworks, including but not limited to copper, lead or other
hazardous or pollution health risks of residents, neighborhoods, public schools or
other local entities from contaminated public water supply or public waterworks
systems and including pipes that link dwellings to the public waterworks, with a
preference for disadvantaged public water works systems based on criteria
promulgated pursuant to Section 7 of this Part.

Section 6. The Michigan Public Water, Health and Justice Trust Fund Board;
establishment; powers and duties; administration; members, terms, removal, vacancies,
compensation.

The Michigan Public Water, Health and Justice Trust Fund board is established within
the department. The board shall be administered under the supervision of the department,
and the department and commission shall offer their cooperation and aid to the board and
shall provide suitable of?ces and equipment for the board.

(2) The trust fund board shall consist of nine members appointed by the Michigan Natural
Resources Commission. The members shall include the director of the Department of
Environmental Quality or a person in the department designated by the director, the
director of the Department of Natural Resources or a person in the department designated
by the director, the director of the Department of Public Health or a person in the
department designated by the director, and six residents, provided that there is at least one
resident from a city of not less than 100,000 persons, one resident from a city of not less
than 50,000 persons, one resident from a village or town of not less than 1,000 persons,
one member representative of any tribe within Michigan recognized by the United States, and
one resident who is a representative of a community public waterworks department or
district; and in addition, one member representative of the protection of public health, one
member representative of the protection of the environment, and one member
representative of social justice interests. The terms of members shall be four years, except
that of those ?rst appointed, one shall be appointed for one year, two shall be appointed
for two years, and one shall be appointed for three years, and one appointed for four
years.

(3) The appointed members may be removed for inef?ciency, neglect of duty or malfeasance
in of?ce.



(4) Vacancies shall be ?lled for the unexpired term in the manner and categories as the
original appointments.

(5) The board may incur expenses necessary to carry out its powers and duties under this Part
and shall compensate its members a sum in the discretion of the commission for not more
than $100.00 per day and for actual expenses incurred in carrying out their of?cial duties.

(6) All general and special meetings shall be pursuant to public notice, comment and
meetings as provided by law.

Section 7. Rule Making Authority.

The department and commission may exercise their general powers and authority to
promulgate rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this Part.

Section 8. Judicial Review.

A person who is aggrieved or whose interest is adversely affected by a ?nal decision by a
department or commission under this Act shall have a right to petition or appeal as
provided in the Michigan administrative procedures act or as otherwise provided by law.

Section 9. Enforcement, Fines, Penalties, Civil Action, Costs, and Fees.

(1) [Insert language for enforcement by attorney general, prosecuting attorney, with
criminal penalties and ?nes, and civil ?nes, temporary and permanent injunction
and other equitable relief]

(2) [Insert de?nition of ?nes for violation of this Act, a license, permit, or any
condition of license or permit, with rights of enforcement]

(3) A citizen whose person or property interest is affected by an impairment or
interference with a right protected by this Act or a violation of this Act or a term
or condition of a permit or license authorized and approved by this Act, shall have
the right to maintain a civil action in the circuit court where the person resides, the
withdrawal and transfer of water occurs, or where the defendant is doing business,
or in Ingham County, Michigan. The circuit court is authorized to award or
apportion attorney fees and costs if the interests of justice so require.





Public Wafer, Public Act:

FOR que or WATER

Bill Summary

 

BILL SUMMARY: The Great Lakes belong to all of us. And yet, state policy in Michigan allows private
for-pro?t corporations to extract the waters of the state and sell them for mammoth pro?ts. This is not
only inconsistent with public trust law, but a raw deal for the citizenry. At the same time that Nestle is
taking public water at virtually no cost and reaping a windfall, thousands of Michigan citizens both city
dwellers and rural residents do not have access to clean, safe and affordable water. Over 100,000
Detroit households have suffered water shutoffs and thousands of Flint children and residents have
suffered lead poisoning and the loss of affordable drinking water in the fourth year of an ongoing water
crisis. No current law addresses both the sale of water for pro?t and the protection of drinking water and
public health with new infrastructure funds.

FLOW developed this model legislation, Public Water, Public Justice, to bring these colliding water
crises under a comprehensive legal framework and to recalibrate Michigan?s priorities on protecting its
water and its people. Michigan and the seven other Great Lakes states should pass this model legislation
drafted by FLOW in order to: af?rm public ownership over water, protect sensitive water
resources, (0) prohibit the sale of water except for the sale of bottled water authorized by a royalty
licensing system, and recoup for public purposes royalties derived from these bottled water sales. This
model law places royalties into a public water, health and justice trust fund to serve people and
communities for Speci?c dedicated public purposes, such as replacing lead service lines or creating water
affordability plans for disadvantaged people or cities and rural communities.

WATER FOR PRIVATE PROFIT VIRTUALLY FREE: On April 2, 2018, the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) issued a permit to the Nestle Corporation to extract up to 400 gallons a
minute of groundwater that feeds the headwaters of two creeks in Osceola County near Evart. Nestl?
bottles and sells the water across the Midwest. The decision came in the face of over 80,000
comments in opposition to the proposed permit, signaling the strength of public opinion. News of the
permit?s issuance was met with widespread and understandable outrage. The DEQ approved the permit
without having in hand site-speci?c hydrogeological data demonstrating the increased withdrawal w0uld
have no adverse impact on sensitive resources associated with the headwaters of Twin and Chippewa
Creeks.

Especially galling to many citizens is the fact that Nestle pays next to nothing for the water it extracts and
sells. Outside of a one-time $5000 administrative fee for the processing of its permit, Nestle pays only
$200 per year to the DEQ for the withdrawal. In sum, current state law, policy and DEQ decision-making
allow Nestle? to take waters of the state and convert them to a commodity that ultimately reaps billions in
private pro?t, and to pay almost nothing for the use of public water.

WATER USTICE: At the same time that Nestl? is taking public water at virtually no cost and reaping
windfall pro?ts, thousands of Michigan citizens both city dwellers and rural residents do not have
access to clean, safe, and affordable water. Nearly 12% of US. households face unaffordable water bills.
Thousands of residents of Detroit have suffered water shutoffs and the citizens of Flint, in the fourth year
of a water crisis, still do not have reliable access to safe drinking water. Thousands of private drinking
water well owners in rural areas have contaminated water supplies and no source of public funding to
assist them in obtaining clean drinking water.

Federal assistance to local water systems is currently 74% below its peak in 1977. This has contributed to
the inability of public water utilities to address failing and aging infrastructure. An infrastructure panel
appointed by Michigan Governor Rick Snyder estimated a gap of over $900 million annually for the next

 

153 1/2 EAST FRONT STREET, STE 203C 231.944.1568
TRAVERSE CITY, Ml 49684 FLOWFORWATERORG

20 years between water infrastructure needs and available funding. The public interest demands that the
state assure clean, safe and affordable water to all citizens of Michigan.

GItI-tst'i? The eight-state Great Lakes Compact and a side agreement among the
states and the provinces of Ontario and Quebec ban water transfers out of the Great Lakes in ships, trucks,
rail tankers, pipelines, canals, aqueducts and other infrastructure. Ironically, the Compact exempts from
this ban the transfer out of the Great Lakes Basin of water in containers 5.7 gallons or less in volume.
This inconsistency is not based on environmental impact or consideration of public trust law. It is purely
an accommodation for an industry that turns a public resource into private pro?t. The proposed law
corrects the Compact?s inconsistency by banning the out of Basin transfer of water in smaller containers
unless it does not impair public trust uses, is licensed by the state, and is subject to royalties that bene?t
public water.

KEEPING WATER PUBLIC: Who owns the Great Lakes? We do. The 35 million people of the Great
Lakes are the bene?ciaries of these waters, with our state governments serving as trustees to protect these
shared waters for the bene?t of current and future generations. It makes sense that certain natural
resources like water should be preserved in perpetuity for drinking, public use and enjoyment. And this is
the essence of the common law known as the public trust doctrine.

The public trust doctrine prohibits the navigable waters of the Great Lakes Basin from being controlled by
or transferred to private interests for private purposes or gain. Our rights to use the water of the Great
Lakes Basin cannot be alienated or subordinated by our governments to special private interests; this
means that all reasonable private use and public uses may be accommodated so long as the public trust
waters and ecosystem are not harmed and the paramount public right to public uses is not subordinated or
impaired. FLOW believes the doctrine is a necessary underpinning for the management and regulation of
water resources, including extraction of water for sale.

PRUPOSED model legislation contains the following key provisions:

1. A declaration that water in its natural state is held by the sovereign and subject to the duty to
bene?t and protect for all citizens, and it is held in public trust where groundwater, springs,
creeks, streams and lakes form a hydrologically connected whole.

2. A declaration that persons have a right to access safe, clean, affordable, healthy water.

3. A prohibition on the transfer or diversion for purpose of sale of water apart from its origination
watershed or source-tract, except as narrowly allowed by license under the Act.

4. Authorization of the sale of bottled water only if it is licensed under the Act and it is not
?spring water,? and it will not interfere or impair other uses or the environment.

5. Establishment of a royalty 25 cents per gallon, about a 5-cent increase in a 16-ounce
bottle) whether the source of water is public waterworks, municipal system or private.

6. Creation of a Public Water, Infrastructure, Health and Justice Fund for royalties managed by
a fairly constituted trust fund board, with rights of public notice, participation and enforcement,
including public water protection and justice citizen suits to enforce the law and its requirements.

7. Dedication of trust fund revenues to: access to clean, affordable water, or to municipalities
who provide tiered or reverse-tiered pricing; public infrastructure, provided systems are in
place for equitable, affordable access; conservation technology and research; health needs;
water source protection.

Copyright 2018 FLOW (For Love of Water).

Public Water, Public Justice Act 

 

A Legal Primer for Model Legislation

OVERVIEW

The following primer provides a brief legal background to model legislation, Public Water,
Public Justice. 1 The purpose of the primer is to give the reader a general framework and understanding of
the basic common law principles and constitutional and statutory provisions that guide water law and
policy. They include:

Water as public and sovereign for citizens;
The reasonable use of water connected with land occupancy or ownership;

0 The public trust doctrine that, at a minimum, protects navigable lakes and streams and the Great
Lakes, but more recently embraces the science that groundwater, lakes, streams, wetlands and the
hydrologic cycle are a singular system;

0 The paramount concern for water and natural resources under state constitutions, Michigan
Constitution, Art. 4., Sec. 52); and

0 The paramount public interest in public health Michigan Constitution, Art. 4., Sec. 51).

These collective principles provide the legal authority and, in some instances, the legal duty for state
governments to take responsible action, and to provide the standards and limitations necessary for
protecting the public?s paramount interests in both public water and health.

THE COMMON LAW OF SOVEREIGN OR PUBLIC WATER

After the American Revolution and formation of the United States, the common law concerning
ownership and control of water passed from the British Crown to each sovereign state in common or as a
commons; as a result, each state owns or holds water as sovereign and has a duty to control and manage
water for the bene?t of citizens. The navigable waters of lakes and streams, and the tributary groundwater
or springs that feed them are considered a Special commons held and controlled under solemn, perpetual
legal principles, which protect fundamental rights and uses of water by citizens, known as the public trust
doctrine. Under these general principles, water is subject to the general obligation that government must

 

Copyright 2018 FLOW. All rights reserved. (?For Love of Water?) Public Water, Public Justice
Report, the accompanying summary of the model law, the full text of the model law and supporting legal primer
may be used for educational or general purposes without obtaining consent from FLOW, provided the user gives
appropriate credit to FLOW in conjunction with such use. Any commercial or other use or distribution of these
materials for private gain or pro?t is prohibited. Any proposed law based on these materials should be tailored to the
speci?c concerns, objectives, laws and policy of each state, province, or country, and should consult the law
community with related legal expertise. FLOW and James Olson, principal author, emphasize that the model law
and associated research, analysis, and materials are a ?work in progress.? FLOW believes the advancement of
sovereign, common, public trust water, and the human and constitutional right to water and health and public justice
are dynamic principles subject to improvement through the continuing, broad-based collaboration with government
leaders, organizations and citizens to meet the challenges for water, quality of life, sustainable environment,
communities, and economies in the 215t Century. Contact FLOW at 153 East Front Street,
Traverse City, Michigan 49684, (231) 944?1568. For simplicity?s sake, footnote references are limited to a few;
however, the legal references that form the basis of this primer can be found in several articles and reports on
website, Michael C. Blum and Mary Woods, The Public Trust Doctrine in
Environmental and Natural Resources Law (Carolina Press, 2013); Olson, All Aboard: Navigating the Course for
Universal Adoption of the Public Trust Doctrine, 15 Vt. J. Env. Law 135-191 (2015)

(http://vjel .verm on tlaw.edu/ll [es/20 14/0 1 

 

153 1A2 EAST FRONT STREET, STE 203C 231.944.1568
TRAVERSE CITY, MI 49684 FLOWFORWATERDRG

manage and protect these commons above all other interests. This means that water is not alienable any
more than government can transfer its sovereign powers and duties to protect the health, safety and
welfare of citizens.

In contrast to water as a commons or special commons held in public trust, the ownership or lawful
occupancy of land, whether private or public, came down as prOprietary, exclusive and possessory,
alienable and transferable, subject to the paramount public interests in water and lakebeds protected by
the public trust doctrine.2

Further, it should be understood that landowners or occupants do not own water; they have only a right to
the reasonable or bene?cial use of water in connection with the overlying land or land adjacent (riparian)
to a lake or stream. Traditional limitations on reasonable use under the common law prohibited a
landowner from selling water off tract or out of a watershed, because it was not a recognized reasonable
use. This is because, quite correctly, courts and society understood that all the landowners and occupants
in a watershed shared in common a right of reasonable use of the water moving through the watershed or
community, and that the sale of water would break this shared use or commons. As noted above, the
reasonable use of a landowner sits side-by-side with the sovereign interest in water as a commons and the
rights and limitations imposed on all users to protect the public trust in navigable lakes and streams or
their tributary waters.

THE PUBLIC TRUST DOCTRINE

Every state took title and control to the waters and bottomlands of all of the navigable lakes and streams
within its borders at the time of each state?s admission to the United States. This is called the ?equal
footing? doctrine.3 These state lands and waters are held in trust for the bene?t of each state?s citizens.
The federal government reserved navigational servitude in the water and lands to protect the right of each
citizen to travel and engage in commerce, including shipping over these waters, ?shing, boating,
swimming, drinking water or sustenance.4

Under the common law, each state also holds these navigable waters and the lakebeds under them in
public trust for every citizen. Moreover, each state by common law has the power to determine the nature
and extent of the public trust in its waters, whether they are navigable or not, and to protect the public?s
rights to use these waters, lakebeds, and other public common property for the protected uses of public
land or natural resources, ?like navigable waters? that are deemed to be of a ?special character.?5 Once
water or land is determined to be subject to the public trust doctrine, the state has an af?rmative duty to
protect these public trust commons, and neither the state nor any other person can alienate or subordinate
this public trust primarily for private gain, nor can they impair the public trust or protected public trust
uses. Each citizen is a legally recognized bene?ciary of the public trust with the right to the certain
protected trust uses, including navigation, ?shing, drinking water, sustenance, boating, bathing,
swimming and other forms of recreation. The government is accountable to citizens, the bene?ciaries,
based on a solemn duty in perpetuity to protect these public trust waters, lands and uses.

 

2 The exception is where there is an overriding public interest, such as walking the shores of the Great Lakes below
the ordinary high water mark of navigable lakes or streams under the public trust doctrine. Glass 1' Goeckel, 437
Mich 667 (2005); Gunderson State Indiana DNR, 90 NE. 3d. 1171 (IN 2018); State ex. rel. Merrill Ohio DNR,
955 NE. 3d. 935 (OH 2011).

3 The most recent U.S. Supreme Court case on the subject is Montana PPL 12 Montana, 565 U.S. 576 (2012). As
described by the Court, states took title ?absolutely" to those bottomlands and waters.

41d. Arnold vMundv, 6 N.J.L. (1821); Obreclzt National Gypsum Co., 361 Mich 399 (1960).

5 Id, at 603-604; Illinois Central Rd 1' Illinois, 146 U.S. 387, 437 (1892); Obrecht National vasam Co., 361
Mich 399 (1960); Class Goeckle, 473 Mich 667 (2005).



Since the 19803, when the California Supreme Court limited a water diversion by Los Angeles of a
tributary nonnavi gable stream to protect the navigable Mono Lake, courts have increasingly
recognized the singularity and interconnected nature of the hydrological cycle, and limited the use of
tributary streams or groundwater that affects ?ows, levels or interferes with riparian or public trust
interests in lakes and streams. In the past two decades, courts in Hawaii, Wisconsin, Arizona, South
Dakota and California have ruled that groundwater is subject to the public trust doctrine under the
common law or in conjunction with constitutional provisions.

In addition, states have passed laws that recognize waters of a state?groundwater, lakes and streams?as
a single hydrological system. For example, all of the Great Lakes states and the federal government in
adopting the Great Lakes Compact recognized the declaration or ?nding that the waters of the Great
Lakes Basin are held in trust for the bene?t of citizens.6 Several Michigan water and natural resource
laws also have declared a public trust in water.7

COMMON LAW OF LAKES. AM) 

Under the common law in most riparian states located east of the Mississippi, off-tract or out-of?
watershed diversion of water for sale is either prohibited or limited to protecting the flows and levels of
the groundwater, streams and lakes shared by other landowners or occupants in a watershed or
community. This latter instance is known as the correlative rights doctrine. The Michigan Supreme Court
adopted this doctrine in 1017.H Under this rule of law, a landowner or occupant of land cannot divert
water off-tract or out-of-watershed for sale if the removal of water diminishes the flow or level of a
marsh, stream or lake, or materially interferes with a neighbor?s well. The elegance of the off-tract or out-
of-watershed rule is that it protects and recognizes a legal preference for water as a local common
resource that feeds and nurtures the watershed where it flows.

In the past decade or so, states through their legislatures or courts have relaxed the off-tract or out-of-
watershed limitation. These states have created gaps or loopholes in this common law distinction, opening
the door for diversions and sale or exports of water off-tract or out-of?watersheds. The Great Lakes
Compact and a handful of state water laws allowing the withdrawal of water for the sale of bottled water
and other cases have Opened the door for the sale in addition to the reasonable use of water, despite the
fact that earlier court precedents limit the off-tract diversion or export of water.9

3011119.!) FROM PRIVATE LARGE-VOLUME WELLS OR PUMPS

The relaxation of the off-tract limitation in groundwater law has led to an increase in bottled water
operations and sale of water, at little or no cost to the operators?whether water bottlers acquire control of
the water through private wells, like Nestle, or through public municipal water systems and pay only for
the delivery of water. In short, while the reasonable use of water in connection with land is integral to
ownership and in relation to other users of water in the same stream, lake or groundwater aquifer, the

 

6 PL. 110?342, See. l.3.l.a.

7 MCL 30101 et seq. (lakes and streams); MCL 32502, 32503, 32505; MCL 324.1701 et seq. (Great Lakes);
MCL 32702(1)(c), 32505 (groundwater, surface water, Great Lakes); MCL 324.31519 (dam removal); MCL
MCL 324.34105 (groundwater ,surface water, irrigation district agreements).

3 Sclzenk City ofAnn Arbor, 196 Mich 75 (1017).

9 Notable court cases include the Michigan Court of Appeals in the ?rst MC WC Nestl? Waters case decided in
2005, which ignored the off-tract limitation in Schenk Arm Arbor, 196 Mich 75, and fashioned a new ?reasonable
use balancing test? consisting of a number of factors, although one of the factors at least retained a preference for in-
watershed uses and an overall requirement that assures adequate water in a stream or lake. Other courts have
adopted a similar reasonable use factor test based on Sec. 858, Restatement, Torts, 2d.



conversion of use of water to sale in containers or bottles severs the water from the public sovereign
commons. Except for an application and administrative fee to help defray the costs of the state?s review,
the actual conversion of water from a reasonable use to a right to sell sovereign water is at present
essentially free.

BOTTLED WATER FROM PUBLIC OR MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENTS

The same is basically true for the majority of bottled water labels, like Aqua?na and Dasani, who obtain
the water as customers from a municipal or public water department or utility service. A municipality
withdraws public trust water from a public stream or lake or connected groundwater, and then treats,
distributes, and discharges wastewater back to a public trust water course. The water and public
waterworks system or infrastructure is public from start to ?nish. The water originates as public sovereign
water, passes through public infrastructure and operations, and accrues revenues based on the nonpro?t
shared cost by statutory mandate to each user on the system, 10 is treated as waste, and is discharged back
to public trust waters. Customers on this public system receive water as a public service so they may use
the water. However, a bottled water producer then on its own converts the public water from a use to sale
of water without paying any additional fee for the conversion from use to sale or the right to sell the
water. In effect, the public waterworks system and its users who share in the cost of the nonpro?t service
pay for or subsidize the sale of water by bottled water producers or those who sell water.

It should be noted that there is no way out of the system for the user who must pay his or her share of the
cost: all customers who need or want to use public water from a public waterworks system must hookup
to the system. Even though a landowner or occupant of land has a right to reasonable use of groundwater,
they are prohibited from drilling and using their own well beneath their property where a public water
utility exists. On the other hand, a bottled water company can hookup and receives public water as a
user based on a nonpro?t cost fee or rate, packages the water, and sells it to a private consumer at highly
marked up market prices with substantial private pro?t that is not shared with the other users who help
pay the overall costs of the nonpro?t system. From a broader perspective, this is not unlike a private
company like Nestle who withdraws water as a landowner for use, but bottles it and sells it at a substantial
pro?t. In both instances, public water that is withdrawn and consumed as a public service or use, is
severed and diverted for sale in bottles or containers; the sovereign, public and others users are
subsidizing the seller?s gain or pro?t.

EXAMPLES OF CONSTITUTIONAL OR STATUTORY DECLARATIONS OF WATER AS PARAMOUNT
PUBLIC TRUST OR INTEREST

This section features a range of constitutional and statutory provisions that address a public interest or
public trust in water and natural resources.

Arizona A.R.S. 45-141. Public nature of waters of the state

A. The waters of all sources, ?owing in streams, canyons, ravines or other natural channels, or in
de?nite underground channels, whether perennial or intermittent, ?ood, waste or surplus
water, and of lakes, ponds and springs on the surface, belong to the public and are subject of
appropriation and bene?cial use as provided in this chapter.

 

10?Sec. 1 (2) The price charged by the city to its customers shall be at a rate which is based on the actual cost of
service as determined under the utility basis of rate?making.? MCL 123.141. The effect of this language is to allow
conversion of the rate or price charged for the water service into the sale of water at high pro?ts without paying a
royalty or fee that is correspondingly shared with the other users.

Michigan Public Water Works Law, Section, MCL 



B. This state may obtain any water that is necessary to maintain and protect public trust values
that are identified by the commission.

In Arizona Ctr. for Law in the Pub. Interest v. Hassell,12 the court recognized the connection
between streams and groundwater, and application of public trust doctrine, which prohibited
transfer of public trust lands or waters for private purposes.

California, Art. 10, Sec. 2

Sec. 2. It is hereby declared that because of the conditions prevailing in this State the general
welfare requires that the water resources of the State be put to bene?cial use to the fullth extent
of which they are capable, and that the waste or unreasonable use or unreasonable method of use
of water be prevented, and that the conservation of such waters is to be exercised with a View to
the reasonable and bene?cial use thereof in the interest of the people and for the public welfare

. . . The right to water water in or from any natural stream or water course
in this State is and shall be limited to such water as shall be reasonably required for the bene?cial
use to be served, and such right does not and shall not extend to the waste or unreasonable use or
unreasonable method of use or unreasonable method of diversion of water.

In 1983, the California Supreme Court recognized the public trust doctrine at common law in
National Audubon L.A. Superior Court. 13 The Court ruled that the City of Los Angeles was
restricted in diverting water from a non-navigable water course where it impaired a navigable
public trust lake. More recently, with climate change impacts of drought, ?ooding, ?re
intensifying, the courts and legislatures have recognized water, including groundwater, as a
public trust. 14 In a recent groundwater case, a court ruled that groundwater withdrawals were
limited by the public trust doctrine the same as connected surface waters. 15

Hawaii Constitution, Art IX, Sec. 1

Sec. 1. All public resources are held in trust by the state for the bene?t of its people? and
the ?State and its political subdivisions shall conserve and protect? the State?s water resources.

Between 2000 and 2017, the Hawaiian Supreme Court has interpreted this provision to
incorporate the public trust doctrine into the constitutional and common law of Hawaii. Waiahole
I 16 he public trust doctrine applies to all water resources without exception or distinction.? '7
The state water resources trust thus embodies a dual mandate of l) protection and 2) maximum
reasonable and bene?cial use. '8

 

?3 837 P.2d 158, 162 (Ariz. App. 1991).

'3 658 P.2d. 709 (Cal.1983).

State has an ?af?rmative duty to protect the public trust in planning and allocation of natural resources.? Center
for Biological Diversity FPL Group Inc, 83 Cal. Rptr. 588 (2008); however, for public trust to apply to
groundwater there needs to be a hydrologic connection between activity and harm to public trust. Santa Teresa
Citizens City rifSuu Jose. 114 Cal. App. use (211113).

lsEnvironrneiItal Law Foundation State Water Control Board and County of Sisikiyou, Decision, Cal. Ct of App.
No. C083239, Aug. 29, 2018 (?The County?s squabble over the distinction between diversion and extraction

is. . .irrelevant?), reversing Siskiyou Countv Superior Court, 217 Cal. App. 4th 83 (2013); Richard Franks, Public
Trust Applies to State Groundwater Resources (Legal Planet, Sept. 4, 2018).

'693 F. 3d. 444 (2005).

'7 1a., at 445.

'3 Id, 451; In Re Water Use Permit Applications, 93 P. 3d. 643 (2004).



Michigan Constitution, Art. 4, Sec. 52, and Art. 4, Sec. 51 and Selected Laws

Sec. 52. The conservation and development of the natural resources of the state are hereby
declared to be of paramount public concern in the interest of the health, safety and general
welfare of the people. The legislature shall providefor the protection of the air, water and other
natural resources of the state from pollution, impairment and destruction.

While no Michigan court has interpreted ?paramount public concern? of natural resources of the
state to mean ?public trust,? the record of the Constitutional Convention of Michigan?s 1963
Constitution intended it to mean ?paramount public interest,? recognizing those natural resources
like water to be protected by a legally recognized superior interest like the public trust doctrine. 1?
Moreover, Art. 4, Sec. 52 commands the legislature (?shall?) ?provide for protection of the air,
water and other natural resources.? The Michigan Environmental Protection Act has
been characterized by the courts as the legislature?s response to this constitutional mandate. 2? The
MEPA provides for the protection of the air, water and natural resources and public trust in those
from Further, the legislature has in several statutes declared the waters of
the state, including groundwater, to be held in trust or subject to public trust protections? as has
the Great Lakes Compact.23

Section 51. The public health and general welfare of the people of the state are hereby declared
to be matters of primary public concern. The legislature shall pass suitable laws for the
protection and promotion of the public health.

Section 51 precedes Section 52 and, notably, contains a similar constitutional mandate that the
legislature ?shall pass suitable laws for the protection and promotion of the public health.? Thus,
self-executing nature of Section 52 under the court?s decision in the Vanderkloot case would also
appear to apply to paramount public concern for public health. Because of the similarity in
structure and constitutional language of Section 51 with Section 52, the duty to consider and
protect public health is analogous to the duty to prevent degradation of water or the environment
under the MEPA. 

Michigan Constitution, Art. 1, Sec. 17 (Due Process)

Sec. 17. No person shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself,
nor be deprived of life, liberty or property, without due process of law.

In Mays 1' Governor, the Michigan Court of Appeals ruled that plaintiffs who claimed injury from
lead exposure from the Flint water crisis had a right to bring an action for damages to their person
and body based on the constitutional tort of denial of due process.25 Their right to clean safe

water and health is protected against deliberate indifference or other serious conduct by state

 

19 Olson, James, Michigan Environmental Law, Sec. 1.2, Mich Const. Art. 4, Sec. 52, pp. 10-11 (Neahtawanta Press,
2001).

20 Vanderkloot State Highway Dept, 392 Mich159 (1974).

2' Part MCL 324.1702, 1703(1).

33 E.g. Part 327, MCL 32702(1)(c); Part 30101, MCL 324.30101 et seq.

33 ?The waters of the state are valuable public natural resources held in trust by the state, and the state has a duty as
trustee to manage its waters effectively for the use and enjoyment of present and future residents and for the
protection of the environment.? Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Compact, Sec. The Compact also
recognizes that the waters of the basin ?are a single hydrologic system.? Sec. 

:4 Ray Mason County Drain Comm 393 Mich 294, 306 (1975).

35 Mays 1' Governor Snyder, 231 Mich App 1 (2018).



of?cials. State of?cials claimed that these citizens had adequate remedy under the citizen suit
provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act but the Court rejected the
argument because the SDWA provided for prOSpective injunctive relief only, and that there was
no direct citizen suit provision for injunction or damages claimed by the citizens under Michigan
law. Thus, the only available remedy would be a claim for violation of a constitutional right to
health and person under the constitution. While the Court found a remedy directly under the
constitution, the case demonstrates the need for citizen suit remedies under a statute to protect and
enforce their right to water and health provided to them from public waterworks or water utilities.

Michigan Financing and Rates for Public Water Systems

Financing Public Water Systems, MCL 141.121

Sec. 21. (1) Rates. for services furnished by a public improvement shall be?xed befbre the
issuance of the bonds. The rates shall be suf?cient to provide for all the following:

The payment of the expenses of administration and operation and the expenses for the
maintenance of the public improvement as may be necessary to preserve the public improvement
in good repair and working order.

The payment of the interest on and the principal of bonds payable from the public
improvements when the bonds become due and payable.

The creation of any reserve for the bonds as required in the ordinance.

Other expenditures and funds for the public improvement as the ordinance may require.

Setting Rates for Public Water Systems, MCL 123.141
Sec. 1 (2) The price charged by the city to its customers shall be at a rate which is based on the
actual cost ofservice as determined under the utility basis of rate-making.

In the federal bankruptcy Lyda water shut-off case against the City of Detroit, the bankruptcy
court rejected the notion that he had any authority to impose affordability plans or other measures
on the city water department, because rates were based on the costs spread over the number of
users.26 The court noted that affordability or costs of assuring basic water needs, in an emergency
or where residents cannot afford to pay their bill because of poverty or other exigencies, were not
listed as a basis for setting suf?cient rates.

Comment: In addition to Parts 1, 2 and 3 in the proposed Model Public Water, Public Justice
Law, a Part 4 or standalone law should amend the de?nition of ?rates? or ?costs? as the ?actual
cost of service.? The de?nition of ?cost of service? should include ?the costs and expenses to
assure affordability or other measures to assure basic water needs of residents are met.? This
would acknowledge the reality that water services are a substitute requirement to hook up to and
pay for water that would otherwise be part of their property right for the reasonable use of
groundwater as an owner or occupant of their home. If all are required to hook up to the system
and pay their share in the ?costs,? then the fair and equitable way to spread these costs across the
system should include the cost of assuring basic water needs affordability plans or basic
daily water limit at low ?xed rate, that is spread across all users of different incomes or types).

 

26 In Re City ofDetroit (Lyda et 2014 W.L. 6474081 (U.S.B. Ct, S.D., ED, 2014); see also MCL 123. 141(2)
?The price charged by the city to its customers shall be at a rate which is based on the actual cost of service as
determined under the utility basis of rate-making? and The retail rate charged to the inhabitants of a city,
village, township, or authority which is a contractual customer as provided by subsection (2) shall not exceed the
actual cost of providing the service.?



Costs for purposes of budgeting for ?nancing should also parallel this expanded and realistic
de?nition of ?cost of service.?

Constitution, Art. 1., Sec. 27

Sec. 27. The people have a right to clean air, pure water, and to the preservation of the natural,
scenic, historic and esthetic values of the environment. public natural resources
are the common property of all the people, including generations yet to come. As trustee of these
resources, the Commonwealth shall conserve and maintain them for the benefit of all the people.

In Environmental Defense Foundation omn?zonweoili?h,27 the state?s Supreme
Court extended the public trust doctrine under Art 1, Sec. 27 to the revenues received by the state
for leasing fish and game and state park lands for fracking and other oil and gas development.
The legislature authorized transfer of a portion of those funds received from public trust state
lands into the general ?md, rather than for conservation or public trust purposes. The court
prohibited use of funds received from sm-?creign public lands and natural resources of the state,
because the funds are impressed with a continuing public trust purpose? Under Art I, See. 27, all
public natural resources are subject to and must be managed by the sovereign owner of these
natural resources under the public trust doctrine. 29 The state, however, has authorized public
water utilities to enter into public?private partnerships;30 this increases the importance of
declaring the rights to water and health and obligations under the public trust doctrine in the
delivery of water services.

Vermont Statutes, 10, Sec. 1390 (5)

(5) It is the policy of the state that the groundwater resources of the state are held in trust for the
public. The state shall manage its groundwater resources in accordance with the policy of this
section, the requirements of subchapter 6 of this chapter, and section 1392 of this title for the
bene?t of citizens who hold and share rights in such waters. The designation of the groundwater
resources of the state as a public trust resource shall not be construed to allow a new right of legal
action by an individual other than the state of Vermont, except to remedy injury to a
particularized interest related to water quantity protected under this subchapter.31

So far, the Vermont courts have interpreted this law to impose a duty on the state department
of natural resources to protect the public trust in both lakes and streams and groundwater from
violations of the standards or principle of the public trust doctrine.32

 

37 108 A.3d. 140 (2014).

33 For a case involving impressing public trust duties and limitations on the funds received by a municipal water
authority for servicing waters of the state, Mayor and Council of City of Clifton Passaic Valley Water Comm 
539 A.2d. 760 (NJ. 1987).

29 Note: If Michigan?s MEPA is a legislative implementation of the constitutional mandate to protect the water and
natural resources and the public trust in those resources, then the duties to prevent and protect from
impairment should similarly extend to groundwater.

30 Act 12 of 2016 law authorizes private investment in public waterworks systems, including authority to
?enhance rates? beyond public utility cost-based approaches.

3' 10 V.S.A. Sec. 1390(5).

32 In re Omya, No. 96-610, V-tec., at 5.



Wisconsin Constitution, Art. 9, Sec. 1

Section 1. The state shall have concurrent jurisdiction on all rivers and lakes bordering on this
state so far as such rivers or lakes shall form a common boundary to the state and any other state
or territory now or hereafter to be formed, and bounded by the same; and the river Mississippi
and the navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places
between the same, shall be common highways and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the
state as to the citizens of the United States, without any tax, impost or duty therefor.

The Wisconsin courts have developed an extensive body of public trust law to protect navigable
lakes and streams, including the Great Lakes. In doing so, the sovereign ownership and control of
the state to its waters as a commons is recognized. While the Wisconsin public trust doctrine has
been limited to navigable waters, the courts have extended the public trust doctrine to
groundwater withdrawals to protect fishing, boating and, presumably. other public recognized
protected trust uses, such as drinking watt-rt.33 Like Michigan and other Great Lakes states,
Wisconsin, in adopting the Great Lakes Compact, declared that the waters of the state, including
groundwater, are held in trust for the bene?t of citizens.34

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION

Water is a commons held by each state as sovereign and public water for the bene?t of each citizen. Some
public waters, including lakes, streams and in some instances groundwater, are held in public trust. Under
public trust law, each state has an af?rmative duty to protect public trust uses of each citizen, as a
bene?ciary of the trust. The protected public trust uses are private and public uses related to navigation,
?shing, boating, swimming, drinking water, sustenance and other paramount public health needs.
Common law principles like riparian, groundwater and the public trust doctrine protect reasonable private
and public uses that connect to or bene?t the land or watershed as a whole. Historically, the reasonable or
public trust uses of water do not include the ?sale? or alienation of water out of watersheds for private
purposes and gain. Only recently have courts considered the withdrawal of water for sale, completely
severed from the watershed provided there is adequate water.

Because the state holds the water as sovereign, there is no authority for the sale of water unless expressly
authorized by law, such as through a license or franchise to serve a public purpose. In those instances
where bottled water is licensed under a royalty system, the states should be fairly compensated for the
license or privilege to sell the waters of the state. Fair compensation means no ?free? or substantially
subsidized water, so a royalty or fee must be paid to the state. Moreover, a sale of water off-tract or out-
of?watershed should not be authorized if it would measurably impair or diminish the quantity or quality of
any lake, stream, marsh, wetland or neighboring well.

If done properly, there is no constitutional or legal impediment to declaring water sovereign, public, held
in public trust to protect public trust and private reasonable uses of water. In fact, these principles require
the state or local governments to prohibit impairment, diminishment of water quantity or quality, to
prohibit the sale of water or its privatization by private persons, and if allowed in narrow circumstances,
only where there is no harm, a public purpose, license, and a royalty or fee. The royalties or fees must be
placed in a trust fund and held for speci?c public trust purposes and needs.

 

33 Lake Beulah Mgmt. Dist. v. Dept. ofNat. Resources, 799 NW 2d 73 (Wis. 2011).




Public Wafer; Public Justice Act:

row A Report from FLOW

 

PUBLIC WA TER, PUBLIC JUSTICE:

A PROPOSAL TO PROTECT THE PARAMOUNT PUBLIC INTEREST OF PUBLIC
WATER AND HEALTH FOR THE PEOPLE OF MICHIGAN AND GREAT LAKES1

A REPORT FROM FLOW
SEPTEMBER 201 8

 

Copyright 2018 FLOW. All rights reserved. (?For Love of Water?) Public Water: Public Justice
Report and the accompanying summary of the model law, the full text of the model law and supporting legal primer
may be used for educational or general purposes without obtaining consent from FLOW, provided the user gives
appropriate credit to FLOW in conjunction with such use. Any commercial or other use or distribution of these
materials for private gain or pro?t is prohibited. Any proposed law based on these materials should be tailored to the
speci?c concerns, objectives, laws and policy of each state, province or country, and should consult the law
community with related legal expertise. FLOW and James Olson, principal author, emphasize that the model law
and associated research, analysis, and materials are a ?work in progress.? FLOW believes the advancement of
sovereign, common, public trust water, and the human and constitutional right to water and health and public justice
are dynamic principles subject to improvement through the continuing, broad-based collaboration with government
leaders, organizations and citizens to meet the challenges for water, quality of life, sustainable environment,
00mmunities, and economies in the 21St Century. Contact FLOW at 153 East Front Street,
Traverse City, Michigan 49684, (231) 944-1568.

 

153 1/2 EAST FRONT STREET, STE 203C 231.944.1568
TRAVERSE CITY, MI 49684 FLOWFORWATERORG

PREFACE BY JIM OLSON

For over two decades, citizens have witnessed government leaders and elected of?cials retreat from their
constitutional and common law paramount duty to protect public water, health and the common good.
Instead, government has favored special economic interests over the duty to safeguard water and health.
We have been living in a culture of government indifference in which water, people and health are last,
and political and economic interests are ?rst. Lives have been injured and communities turned upside
down because of this failure.

Detroit water shutoffs continue without real relief. Flint citizens continue to struggle and suffer, with
insuf?cient attention and lack of support to rebuild their community and lives. Michigan approved yet
another permit for Nestle to take 210 million gallons a year for free, except for token annual registration
and administrative fees. Citizens in Flint and Detroit are forced to buy bottled water because they don?t
have access to safe water. Detroit schools can?t open without bottled water. Ohio has dragged its feet
since the western one-third of Lake Erie turned into green toxic algae and Toledo?s drinking water was
shut down in 2014 and a tourist-based economy damaged. Recently, state of?cials declared a state of
emergency in Parchment, Michigan because of the risk of exposure to per- and poly?uoroalkyl substances
more than 20 times the 70 parts per trillion current state limit. This summer, an extreme rainfall
event in the Upper Peninsula overwhelmed infrastructure and caused untold damage and destruction,
largely due to government indifference toward the increasing intensity and frequency of weather events
from human-induced climate change.

Undoubtedly, jobs and economy are vital to our quality of life, but in what manner and at what cost to the
lives of hundreds of thousands of people? How much extemalized damage to the environment is enough?
At what point do citizens and leaders reject this indifference and favoritism toward political and economic
interests, and reestablish the overarching paramount interest in water, health and common good? What
should citizens, communities, towns and leaders do?

Over the last nine months, I have had the privilege to help FLOW ?nd a holistic approach that would
address these complex interconnected concerns in a model law. This past May, I circulated a draft of a
proposal for a model water and justice law with our Executive Director Liz Kirkwood and Senior Policy
Advisor Dave Dempsey and Board Chair Skip Pruss, highly regarded sages on public policy, water,
environment and energy in the Great Lakes Basin. After much discussion, review and collaboration with
many organizations and people, and many iterations of the draft law over the summer, FLOW is pleased
to release a model Public Water, Public Justice Law for citizens, communities and leaders in Michigan
and the Great Lakes Basin. The model law, bill summary, this full report and accompanying water law
primer are offered as a pathway for education, dialogue and enactment of a comprehensive law. This law
declares water as sovereign and held in public trust by state govermnents for the bene?t of citizens, to
protect their paramount right to safe, clean and affordable water, public health and a sustainable
environment in the challenging decades to come.

The seed for this project was sown during a Michigan Department of Environmental Quality hearing in
Big Rapids last April 2017. The hearing showcased the second application for a water permit by Nestl? to
divert 210 million gallons of groundwater a year from the headwater creeks near Evart, Michigan for its
bottling plant 30 miles to the south. Hundreds of well informed citizens from all over the state crowded
the large hall, lined the walls and sat on the floor, and one by one voiced their concerns. Citizens from
Detroit and Flint and leaders and members from Michigan?s recognized Indian tribes spoke passionately
and powerfully, decrying the damage, risks to health, inequity and injustice in Detroit and Flint, while the
state authorizes water for Nestle virtually for free and risks sensitive wetlands and cold?water creeks: Why
do you leave us without water for our homes when we can 't afford a $200 water bill, when a bottled
water company like Nestl? gets a permit to take water virtually free? Why is it that we and our children



were exposed to lead and disease, that we have to use bottles of water to cook or wash when Nestle'
receives hundreds of millions of dollars in pro?ts a year? Why are you forcing our children to be
separated from our homes because we are without water? Why is it that you can let a private corporation
subordinate 12, 000-year old glacial springs and creeksfor the convenience of a label with the words
?spring water? so a water bottling company can serve a market niche and charge more per bottle? How
can you issue a permit from ?spring water? in the same watershed where courts have already determined
that 400 gallons per minute for bottled water substantially impaired and harmed the upper reaches of a
stream and two lakes with nearly the same kind of glacial hydrogeology?

As we left the hearing room at Ferris State University that evening, I sensed I had just witnessed a turning
point in Michigan?s history. For the ?rst time I could recall, citizens from every walk of life had united as
one voice to stop the deterioration of our water, health and social justice. It wasn?t just hunters and
?shermen, conservationists, or environmentalists. It was African Americans, civil right activists, tribal
leaders, elders, children, business men and women, teachers, doctors, scientists and lawyers insisting to
government and its leaders that it was time for a paradigm shift in water law and policy that puts our
public water, health and social justice ?rst, above all else.

If the seed for this project was sown at Ferris State, it germinated during the ?Water Is Life? conference
hosted by Woodland Church in the fall of 2017. Inspiring talks, informative workshops, and sobering,
stirring testimony from participants called for a new uni?ed, holistic approach to defeat the government?s
lack of accountability and action to protect water, health and justice. It seemed unconscionable that over
the past 30 years our government leaders had let peOple sink to the bottom in favor of a narrower political
economic agenda. There had to be an approach that tied together in one law a solution to the chasm of
inequity and discontinuity of justice between the extreme pro?t of bottled water and the devastating
tragedies in Detroit and Flint, and at the same time promoted resilient communities and a sustainable
economy and environment.

We faced many Challenges. A model law would have to connect the inalienable nature of public water
held by a state as sovereign for the broader needs and bene?t of its citizens with the need for individual
reasonable use of water for domestic, agriculture, industrial and commercial or private purposes. At the
same time, it was necessary to restore the paramount value of water and dignity of people and connect
this with public infrastructure and water services in Flint, Detroit, our suburbs and rural towns. It was
important to prevent companies from taking water from public supplies at nonpro?t rates and turn around
and sell it, without state authorization, at high pro?address the poignant,
unconscionable injustice between the hundreds of millions of dollars that packaged water companies
make off essentially free water from those in cities or small towns who cannot afford or are denied access
to safe, clean water because of contamination or failing infrastructure. Finallyprevent the continuing adverse impacts from the effects of large-volume water withdrawals and
diversions for bottled water that diminish and harm the public trust in our ?sh, habitat and public
enjoyment of our hydrologically connected groundwater, Springs, wetlands, lakes and streams.

Today, we present the Public Water, Public Justice Law, its report and supporting documents with
immense gratitude to everyone who has participated and helped us ?nish and release this model law. The
model law is presented in three parts, designed as one model law or three separate stand-alone laws. Part
1 declares waters of the state sovereign, asserting a paramount right to clean affordable water and health
subject to the af?rmative duty under public trust law for the state to protect the fundamental right to
water. Part 2 prohibits the sale of water itself, but preserves the reasonable use of water incident to land
ownership or occupancy; accordingly, the law distinguishes the reasonable use of water in connection
with the land from the severance and sale of water in distant markets. If a packaged water company wants
to sell water, it must demonstrate no impairment to the public trust through interference with a reasonable
use, and that it will not diminish the flows and levels of wetlands, streams or lakes. Only if these strict



environmental standards are met can a company apply for a license to sell water from the sovereign state
under Part 3. Part 3 requires a license and royalty from the state. A royalty of 25 cents per gallon,
approximately 5 more cents for a 16-0unce plastic bottle, is paid annually into what we labelled the
?Public Water, Health and Justice Trust Fund.? The Trust Fund board consists of urban and rural citizens,
water engineers and professionals, representatives of government, local water systems, commerce,
conservation and citizens at large who are appointed by the Natural Resources Commission. The board is
charged with administering the funds for preferred dedicated purposes, including affordability, health,
medical monitoring, emergency infrastructure or groundwater pollution threats, help for local
governments and other entities like schools. The model law also creates public notice and comment,
hearings, oversight, accountability, government and citizen enforcement.

We could not have ?nished this project without the incredible support and water justice Vision of the
Mahogany Foundation along with the invaluable contributions of many people and organizations. We are
deeply indebted to you all. The young, talented, dedicated staff at FLOW carried and improved the model
law and report. The peer review and thoughtful comments from water law experts Professor Noah Hall at
Wayne State University, Professor Oday Salim, now at National Wildlife Federation and University of
Michigan, Professor Nick Schroeck at University of Detroit Mercy Law School, and Skip Pruss helped us
assure that we had designed a comprehensive architecture based on sound principles of water and public
trust law.

Cyndi Roper, (Natural Resources Defense Council), encouraged us to move this forward, because of the
imminent public need. The constructive comments and questions from the participants in our Water Is
Life Coalition grounded us to address the needs of people and the environment. These extraordinary
people include Lila Cabbil (The People?s Water Board), Monica Lewis-Patrick (We the People of
Detroit), Sylvia Orduno (Michigan Welfare Rights Organization/The People?s Water Board), Claire
McClinton (Democracy Defense League), Wenonah Hauter, Mary Grant and Emily Wurth (Food 
Water Watch), Maude Barlow and Emma Lui (Council of Canadians), Peggy Case and Karen Turnbull
(Michigan Citizens for Water Conservation), Miranda Fox and Stiv Wilson (Story of Stuff), Shannon
Abbott, (Grand Rapids Water Protectors), Melissa Mays (Water You Fighting For), Holly Bird (Grand
Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians), Alissa Weinman (Corporate Accountability
International), Paul Baines and Luke Evans (Great Lakes Commons), and Lin Grist (Wellington Water
Watchers). Similarly, we received wonderful guidance from other colleagues, including comments from
David Holtz, Allison LaPlatt, Anne Woiwode (Sierra Club), and James Clift and Kate Madigan,
(Michigan Environmental Council). And I personally am thankful for the critical response by participants
in the People?s Water Board ?teach in? when I was given the opportunity to present an outline of the
proposed law. Finally, I want to thank Alice Jennings, Kurt Thombladh and Tom Stephens, leading social
justice lawyers in Detroit, for letting me participate in the Lyda City of Detroit bankruptcy court case
and appeal, an opportunity that gave me deeper insight into to what happens to families, homes, children
and neighborhoods when the paramount needs of public water and health are ignored by a government
bent on narrower agendas infected with political interests.

We invite you, the reader, to join with us and others in what could be the most critical challenge that we,
our children and their children will face in this century. It is past time that we right the ship of water,
health and the public trust in water and governance. All of us, beyond partisanship and self-interests, must
unite the principles of the human right to water, health and the public trust in water to promote
transparency, accountability and the paramount common good, now.

It is our deepest hope that a groundswell of people from our leaders, legislators, local governments,
organizations and citizens from all walks of life will work together to reach for and achieve a new
framework for water and health. This, we hope, will spark a sea change in the way we value, protect, use
and sustain water for the common good. It is time to rebalance the scales of justice to promote and protect



these paramount interests and values from subordinate to paramount. If we do this, we will make good
decisions about water use, land development, infrastructure, community, health, energy, food, economy
and quality of life.

Jim Olson,
Traverse City
September 19, 2018



INTRODUCTION

The people of Michigan collectively own the waters of the state as sovereign but the lack of state
assertion of its sovereign ownership and duty to protect water and public health allows private for-pro?t
corporations to remove these waters and sell them for mammoth pro?ts without explicit legislative
authorization to do so. This is not only inconsistent with the need for state authorization to sell water that
belongs to all of us, but it violates the governmental duty to assure that the diversion and sale of water do
not impair our lakes, streams and wetlands, and it is a raw deal for the citizenry.

To prevent alienation of the public?s water and to protect sensitive water resources, particularly in times
of critically threatened groundwater, lakes and streams, and public health, Michigan and the seven other
Great Lakes states should pass model legislation like the model bill recently drafted and proposed by
FLOW and its founder and legal advisor Jim Olson, after review and comment from other experts and
affected interests.

This proposed legislation is designed to af?rm state sovereignty and public trust duty to protect the right
to water and health; require licenses for any water that is authorized for sale; comply with protective
water quantity, quality and environmental standards; recoup for public purposes royalties derived from
any authorized water sales; dedicate those royalties in trust to satisfy the rights to access affordable, safe
and clean water; assure communities can sustain public water infrastructure and public water sources;
provide public notice, participation and rights of enforcement for violations of governments? legal duty;
and provide adequate and fair funding to local communities for safe water lines and other needs of
residents, schools, businesses and public buildings and facilities. To do otherwise is to fall short of
government?s constitutional, public trust and legal duties as sovereign of our public trust waters to protect
the right to water and assure adequate, clean, affordable water and public health.

THF. MICHIGAN CONTROVERSIES
Nestl? Waters High-Volume Water Diversions for Sale of Bottled Water

In 2001, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to the Nestl?
Corporation to withdraw and divert 400 gallons per minute of groundwater that feeds Sanctuary
Springs and the headwaters of a stream and two lakes. In 2003, a circuit court issued an injunction
shutting down the high-volume water wells at Sanctuary Springs after ?nding the operation violated the
common law of groundwater and the Michigan Environmental Protection Act. In 2005, the Court of
Appeals af?rmed the lower court?s ?ndings, found the operation caused substantial and unreasonable
harm, and ordered the lower court to assure adequate water in the stream and lakes by limiting Nestl??s
diversions for sale. Today, the Nestl? Corporation is limited during dry months at Sanctuary Springs to an
average of 125 to protect the water courses, adjacent wetlands and rights of riparians and the public.

On April 2, 2018, the DEQ issued a permit to the Nestle Corporation to extract up to 400 of
groundwater that feeds the headwaters of two creeks in Osceola County near Evart, 30 miles north of the
Sanctuary Springs wells. Nestle' bottles and sells the water across the Midwest. The decision came
in the face of over 80,000 comments in opposition to the proposed permit, signaling the strength of public
opinion. News of the permit?s issuance was met with widespread and understandable outrage. The DEQ
approved the permit without having in hand suf?cient existing hydrological data demonstrating the
increased withdrawal would have no adverse impact on creeks, wetlands and sensitive resources
associated with the headwaters of Twin and Chippewa Creeks. Michigan Citizens for Water Conservation
and the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indians have ?led petitions contesting
the validity of the DEQ permit decision.



In sum, current state law, policy and DEQ decision-making allows a bottled water company like Nestle
to:

0 Obtain a permit authorizing a 60% increase in its water withdrawal without
demonstrating it can be done in an environmentally sound manner;

I Take waters of the state, divert them from watersheds and convert them to a commodity
for sale that reaps considerable private pro?t;

0 Pay almost nothing to compensate the public for the use of sovereign public water.

This makes no sense as a matter of law and policy. It overlooks fundamental constitutional and legal
principles inherent in the public trust doctrine and the public nature of water and health and shortchanges
the public. It is an abdication of responsibility by the State of Michigan. Change is necessary to bring the
State back in line with its constitutional, statutory and moral obligations.

Detroit Water Shut-Offs and Flint Water Infrastructure and Health Crisis

Especially galling to many citizens is the fact that Nestl? pays nothing for the water it removes and sells
(an annual $200 application fee). At the same time, residents in Flint and Detroit and elsewhere pay
unconscionably high rates for water bills as high as $150 to $200 a month for a few thousand gallons
for essential needs. As a result, thousands of residents who are not able to afford these rates are cut off
from water service, or cannot use the water because of health risks, such as lead infrastructure and lead-in
pipe to their homes. Adding insult to lifelong injury, many residents are now forced to buy bottled water.

Nestle pays only a one-time $5,000 administrative fee for the processing of its permit and a $200 per year
application fee. Although Nestl? does not disclose volume sales from its individual bottled water wells
and facilities, it is estimated that Nestle receives over one-half billion dollars in revenues a year off its
Michigan wells and bottling operations. The other 49 watggbottline operations in Michigan also pay to
the state at most only permit fees. Nestle, Aqua?na and Dasani make up a large percentage of bottled
water sales. Aqua?na and Dasani acquire water as users served by the Detroit public water system based
on extremely low rates determined by a legally mandated cost-based system where prices or rates are
determined by dividing the costs by the number of users. Bottled water companies who receive water
from public water and infrastructure systems turn around and sell the water at high pro?ts, similar to
Nestle'.

While the federal government and state have offered some help to Flint during the crisis, the amount is
relatively small compared to the responsibility the federal and state governments bear for the existing and
future costs and obligations the city owes and will owe to maintain, improve, and operate its system. The
same is true of Detroit, but like Flint with decreasing population, the cost per resident and user is
disproportionately higher. Detroit continues to shut off water to thousands of residents, as it did beginning
in 2014 as ordered by Detroit?s emergency manager to improve Detroit?s balance sheet and chances of
exiting bankruptcy. Detroit, Flint and other residents who cannot afford high water bills lose their water
service for fundamental needs or rights to hydration, cooking, bathing and health. To date, the
affordability plans, water rate structures, procedures and other approaches to ?nancing water services for
those who cannot afford it have been inadequate, unjust and unfair.

In sum, current state law, policy and DEQ decision?making continue to place business, political and
economic interests before the paramount public concern and right to water, health and the environment
by:

0 Lack of suf?cient funding for the water infrastructure, health and education for the
residents of Flint;



0 Inadequate funding for affordability or other approaches to assure every resident and
citizen adequate, clean, safe water;

1- Overemphasis on private pro?t and ef?ciency;

0 Continued institutional discrimination against communities and residents facing serious
economic inequality and patterns of social and racial injustice; and

0 Resistance to liability and accountability.

Pounded to uphold the public trust doctrine as the central organizing principle for water resource
protection and stewardship, FLOW is calling for historic reforms in the laws of Michigan and other Great
Lakes states that put sovereign public water, public trust and the right to water and public health in their
rightful and essential place in this arena of policy and law. These water crises share common threads?
private profit ?rst, people second and a continuing lack of serious government commitment. The US.
EPA Of?ce of Inspector General just released a report that places blame and accountability on the
shoulders of the EPA and Michigan top of?cials. Michigan?s ?xation on saving cities from bankruptcy
with emergency managers eviscerated the democratic and constitutional protections that safeguard
people?s right to water, health and dignity.

TH GREAT LAKES COMPACT

The Great Lakes Compact arose out of concerns regarding a 1998 proposal to ship 50 tankers annually of
Lake Superior water for sale to Asian markets, an idea that met a ?erce regional public outcry. Ironically,
while the Compact bans or severely restricts water exports in pipelines, canals, aqueducts and other
infrastructure, it contains a gaping loophole that permits the export of water for sale.

The eight-state Great Lakes Compact and a side agreement among the states and the provinces of Ontario
and Quebec ban water transfers out of the Great Lakes in ships, trucks, rail tankers, pipelines, canals,
aqueducts and other infrastructure. Ironically, the Compact exempts from this ban the transfer out of the
Great Lakes Basin of water in containers 5.7 gallons or less in volume. This inconsistency is not based on
environmental impact or consideration of public trust law. It is purely an accommodation for an industry
that turns a public resource into private pro?t. The proposed law corrects the Compact?s inconsistency by
banning the out of Basin transfer of water in these smaller containers unless it is does not impair public
trust uses, is licensed by the state, and is subject to royalties that bene?t public water.

The Compact, however, leaves open the door for states to go beyond its minimum requirements. States in
their discretion may treat proposals to export water from the Basin in small containers as diversions. To
date, no state has done so.

NESTLE PERMIT

The original Nestle case illuminated a gap in Michigan law lack of statutory authority to govern water
withdrawals. In 2006, the state enacted a law governing such water withdrawals. Its central feature is a
screening tool that is designed to determine whether a proposed withdrawal will adversely affect a stream.
When the tool assessed Nestl??s proposed increase to 400 in 2016, it didn?t pass muster. The
company then appealed to the DEQ to perform a site-speci?c analysis. This resulted in the April 2 permit.

MCWC is now once again contesting the permit for 400 gpm, arguing the DEQ failed to follow Michigan
law. Its central argument is that the DEQ never obtained the required data on presently existing
environmental, hydrological and hydrogeological conditions at the site. This failure means that an
evaluation of the actual effects on water flows and levels and resulting environmental impact of pumping
at Nestl??s requested rate of 400 prior to issuing the permit isn?t possible, because the required data



was not provided by Nestle. Equally disturbing, the DEQ rubber-stamped an earlier approval for 250 
without the required permits under the Safe Drinking Water Act and water withdrawal law. In addition,
although data from own citizen scientists was submitted by MCWC as requested by DEQ
public notices, as well as other data sets and analyses submitted by experts working in conjunction with
FLOW, that data and those analyses were not given the legally required full consideration by the DEQ. In
short, it appears that the interpretation of the law was skewed in favor of the permit.

WATER INJUSTICE

At the same time that Nestl? is taking public water at virtually no cost and reaping windfall pro?ts,
thousands of Michigan citizens both city dwellers and rural residents do not have access to clean, safe
and affordable water. Nearly 12% of US. households face unaffordable water bills. Thousands of
residents of Detroit have suffered water shutoffs, and the citizens of Flint, in the fourth year of a water
crisis, still do not have reliable access to safe drinking water. Thousands of Flint children and residents
suffered lead poisoning from their tap water because a perfect storm of state, local and private political
interests pushed Flint off Detroit water to temporary water from the Flint River, causing untold health,
nuisance, property loss, excess water bills and, ironically, dependence on millions of bottles of water.
Thousands of private drinking water well owners in rural areas have contaminated water supplies, and
there is no source of public funding to assist them in obtaining clean drinking water.

Federal assistance to local water systems is currently 74% below its peak in 1977. This has contributed to
the inability of public water utilities to address failing and aging infrastructure. An infrastructure panel
appointed by Michigan Governor Rick Snyder estimated a gap of $900 million annually over the next 20
years between water infrastructure needs and available funding. Both the Snyder and Trump
administrations have cut public funding and loans for infrastructure, putting pressure on municipalities to
privatize their water systems. The public interest demands that the state assure access to clean, safe and
affordable water to all citizens of Michigan and not subsidize corporations? sale of bottled water with
little return and privatization of public water systems with higher bills, mostly poorer service or
endangered health.

rl'l IE PUBLIC TRUST DOCTRINE

The Public Trust Doctrine holds that public water and certain common public property and natural
resources like navigable waters are preserved in perpetuity for public use and enjoyment. Citizens are
legal bene?ciaries of this trust to protect their uses of water for ?shing, sustenance, boating and
navigation, drinking water, bathing and health. Applying a banking analogy, the state serves as a trustee
to maintain the trust or common resources for the bene?t of current and future generations who are the
bene?ciaries. Just as private trustees are legally and judicially accountable to their bene?ciaries, so too
are state trustees in managing public trust waters and uses.

In addition, any private, public or commercial existing or proposed use, diversion or discharge cannot
harm the waters of the Great Lakes by measurably diminishing or reducing the ?ow, changing the levels,
polluting quality or impairing the trust uses of the waters of the Great Lakes Basin. Furthermore,

those who seek to use, continue to divert or alter the waters of the Great Lakes Basin have the burden of
proof to show they will not impair, pollute or harm the water. If they do not satisfy this burden of proof,
through public notice, participation and government accountability, the proposed action is not authorized
and cannot be permitted under the public trust and other water laws of Michigan.

Lastly, under the public trust doctrine, the waters of the Great Lakes Basin can never be controlled by,
transferred, sold as a commodity or subordinated by private interests for primarily private purposes or

gain. Our rights to use the waters of the Great Lakes Basin cannot be alienated or subordinated by our



governments to special private interests. This means that all reasonable private use and public uses must
be protected against loss and harm to water and that these protected uses must be accommodated so long
as the public trust waters and ecosystem are not harmed and the paramount public right to public uses is
not subordinated or impaired. FLOW believes the public trust doctrine is a time?tested, ?exible and
indispensable framework for the management and regulation of water resources and the uses of those
waters, including removal of water for sale.

State Constitutions?cg, Michigan Constitution?s Declared Paramount Concern to Protect Water
and Public Health

Article 4, Section 51:

Sec. 51. The public health and general welfare of the people of the state are hereby
declared to be matters of primary public concern. The legislature shall pass suitable laws
for the protection and promotion of the public health.

Article 4, Section 52:

Sec. 52. The conservation and development of the natural resources of the state are
hereby declared to be of paramount public concern in the interest of the health, safety
and general welfare of the people. The legislature shall providefor the protection of the
air, water and other natural resources of the state from pollution, impairment and
destruction.

PRINCIPLES GUIDING A New POLICY

proposal for reform is based on the tenets of the public trust doctrine. The following principles
should guide state policy.

1.

Water is public, held by each state as sovereign in public trust for the benefit of the people.
Because water is public or held by the sovereign, it may be used within limits of reasonable
use in connection with property, municipal public water works, developer, industry, farming,
utilities. Such uses are considered proper if not unreasonable in extent and do not cause harm.
The reasonable or reasonably beneficial use does not mean a landowner, city or corporation
has the right to sell the sovereign water. That right can only be granted by the state as
sovereign; if a law has not granted the right of sale, including the wholesale of water intended
for sale in a container to an intermediate consumer, it should be considered unlawful or
unauthorized. 2

While there is no ?right to sell water? within the traditional notions of reasonable use, a court
or state legislature can (as did Michigan and states who signed the Great Lakes Compact)
rede?ne and set terms as it sees so long as it bene?ts the public and does not subordinate
the state?s interest; this means the state or province (as Canada does) can license water to
private concerns for sale as bottled water, but it is subject to the sovereign interests of people
and overarching public trust principles.

 

1 The prohibition on sale of water would not prohibit the wholesale of water from a public or quasi-public water
works system, where another governmental water system would distribute the water as a service for use by its
residents and customers. It would prevent, however, the wholesale waterworks system acquiring the water from
selling the water, as distinct from delivering the water as a service.



5. If a state chooses to license the sale of water within a narrow range of circumstances, such as
existing bottled water operations from public systems or gran 11d fa thering bottled
water sale operations} it must do so with care consistent with the limitation on the state as
sovereign to divest its control of water for the bene?t of citizens or as a public trust; the state
should expressly declare that the waters of the State are not a commodity, that the license
does not commodify water but grants a privilege to sell within a narrow range of
circumstances and conditions; water remains subject to the sovereign and people?s interest (or
Crown?s if in Canada). It is a privilege, not a right. If the license is based on a withdrawal and
transfer that impairs materially or measurably the ?ow, level or quantity characteristics of
streams, lakes, wetlands, creeks or it interferes with others? use of groundwater, it cannot be
authorized or licensed; further, it must be determined by the state that it is primarily in the
public interest, and it must be based on fair and adequate compensation to avoid any subsidy
through an appropriation or transfer of water by the sovereign state, province or Crown.

6. A license is for a term, and subject to revocation or modification as a result of unforeseen
events, such as those attributed to climate change or breach of covenants or conditions.

7. In addition, where water is withdrawn from groundwater that is connected to creeks, streams
and lakes that are subject to the public trust doctrine, then it is considered part of one
hydrologic system, and the removal of water may not impair public trust uses or the
ecosystem.

8. Public trust uses protected from interference or impairment include navigation, ?shing,
swimming, boating and sustenance g, drinking water). This means the water removal
cannot impair these uses. If it does, the removal is not authorized. The public trust rights and
uses are paramount, as well as the government?s duty to protect these uses. These obligations
and standards are continuing, perpetual, and, if violated, the license or removal of water can
be revoked.

9. Once bottled water is authorized, all who want to bottle and sell inside and outside state must
be treated equally in accordance with international trade law and the commerce clause of the
US. Constitution.

10. The state as sovereign cannot subsidize the removal of water for sale; unlike the use of water
in connection with land, the sale of water means severance and conversion of a right to use
water to water itself (as opposed to incorporated in a product) as a commodity; water can be
incorporated into a product, but it cannot be incorporated into itself. The severance of water
and conversion into a private sale breaches the fundamental limit and duty imposed by the
state?s sovereignty and overall public trust in public water. This should not be done without
fair compensation and protections from harm or risks, which would help avoid subsidy of, or
subordination of, others? use of water by private persons for a private purpose; this could
include a provision calling for fair and just compensation for granting the conditional
privilege of selling water, in this instance bottled water.

 

3 The requirement of a license, royalty and compliance with all other laws and regulations can implement
immediately or within a reasonably short period of time. However, if a state or province decides to prohibit or
grandfather existing bottled water sale operations, it should be done in a fair, non-discriminatory manner that allows
for the existing operation and withdrawal of water to be amortized or gradually phased out in a reasonable manner
over a reasonable period of time consistent with the exigencies and circumstances of each situation.



PROPOSED Llamas-strum
model legislation contains the following key provisions:

0 A declaration that water in its natural state and withdrawn and delivered through a public
water works system is held by the sovereign and subject to the duty to bene?t and protect
for all citizens, and it is held in public trust where groundwater, springs, creeks, streams
and lakes form a hydrologically connected whole.

0 A declaration that persons have a human and/or constitutional right to access safe, clean,
affordable, healthy water.

0 A prohibition on the transfer or diversion for purpose of sale of water apart from its
origination watershed or source-tract, except as narrowly allowed through stringent
application of water. health, environmental standards, licensing and emergency water
crises and needs as provided under the. Act.4

I Authorization of the sale ot'buttled waler?" only if: it is licensed under the Act; it is
not ?spring water? (or not prohibited based on the common law non-diminishment of
streams, lakes, groundwater and wetlands standard); (0) it will not interfere or impair
other uses or the environment; and private wells or municipal or public waterworks
systems, unfair subsidies below fair public rates or fees for the sale of water are
prohibited.

0 Establishment of a royalty 25 cents per gallon, about a 5-cent increase in a 16-
ounce bottle whether the source of water is public waterworks, municipal system or a
private water source.

II Creation of a Public Water, Health and Justice Fund, managed by a fairly constituted trust
fund board, into which royalties are deposited.

Dedication of trust fund revenues to promote: access to clean, affordable water,
or to municipalities who provide tiered or reverse-tiered pricing; public notice,
participation in local and state decision-making regarding access and affordability,
health and other needs of residents, and funding of public infrastructure, assuring
systems are in place for equitable, affordable access; implementation of
conservation technology and research; special health needs; assurance of
public water source protection; and a reserve fund that guards against depleting
the fund and provides a source of funds for unanticipated needs or circumstances.

0 Establishment of a trust fund board that is fairly constituted and representative of
the public and local governments, water and public health experts, and citizens,
subject to public trust obligations in water, with rights of government and citizens
to notice and hearing, public participation, and enforcement, including public water
protection and justice citizens? suits to enforce the rights, duties and procedures,
including costs and fees.

 

4 It is important to emphasize that water itself is not a commodity, and that if the state as sovereign allows
exceptions for sale of water by license, it is a privilege and remains subject to the sovereign interests of a state or
Crown interest of a province; in this way, the sovereign interest and public trust are not and can never be deemed a
commodity; under trade laws or constitution, a person or firm holding a license would recognize it is a privilege to
sell and does not create a right to the water itself or a permanent right to consider or sell water as a commodity.

5 It is recognized that there is a range of options to address the sale of water, including outright prohibition, 
prohibition of sale of water except presently permitted bottled water facilities and operations; prohibition of
spring water sources, but allowing bottled water from municipal public water systems or emergencies, subject to
licensing and royalties, and 00mpliance with other measures as proposed in this model law; as noted in the
accompanying text, the royalties would be held in a trust fund and the funds themselves impressed with a public
trust duty to ful?ll the dedicated purposes or preferred uses designated in the act and that are considered a
recognized public trust use, like sustenance and drinking water.



1M FUR I ER AND TH PROVINCES

The same public trust principles and public interest considerations apply equally in all Great Lakes states
as well as the provinces in Canada. Whether water is public and considered held in trust in the states or
Crown property in Canada, there is no reason why provisions tailored or taken from this model law
cannot be imposed. Protecting water as a public resource, and preventing its alienation for private bene?t
is not only prudent policy, it satis?es the obligation of state and provincial governments acting as trustee
of public trust water resources, especially to protect water as a public, human or constitutional right, for
the public health and needs of citizens, free of discrimination and unfair restrictions and treatment.

Moreover, it behooves the region to adopt a consistent public trust framework, licensing process and
royalty structure for proposals to extract public water for sale. Doing so will prevent the commercial
bottled water industry ??om exploiting a weak point in the region?s current water stewardship regime. It
will also establish a priority for protecting public water, health and ?rst and foremost,
safeguarding against private takeover or control of public water infrastructure and systems and assuring
funding for participation and processes for ful?lling this public trust and constitutional accountability.



HB 4389 and HB4390 Decriminalization
Decriminalizes the act of re-connecting water
service (because of a shut-off due to inability to
pay) from a five-year felony to a civil infraction for a
first or second offense and a misdemeanor for the
third offense.

HB 4388 Water Meters

Requires that a provider shall not make water or
sewerage service to a residential customer con-
tingent on the installation of an advanced meter or
use of an advanced meter function.

HB 4712 Billing

Allows some customers, who have not received
a water bill by ten days after the end of the billing
period, to no longer be responsible for paying
that bill if he or she contacted the department in
writing twice and the department did not respond
within 30 days.

Water Quality

House Bill 4125 Lead and Copper Action

Level

Establishes criteria for the action level or engage-
ment of state departments as it relates to the Lead
and Copper Rule.

HB 4124 Program for Schools and Child

Day Care

Establishes water testing and interventions for
schools and child day care centers, as well as
repair and replacement of sources of lead contam-
ination.

HB 4120; HB 4372, 4378, 4379 Water
Quality Testing

Requires water quality testing at regular inter-
vals for schools, colleges, universities, nonpublic
schools and hospitals.

HB 4206 Pre-Flushing

Stipulates that the DEO and all water authorities
must be compliant with EPA guidelines and man-
dates that procedurally no entity, including the
DEQ, will be permitted to use pre-flushing as a
water sample collecting method.

HB 4179 Loans to Local Government

Allows the Drinking Water Revolving Fund to give
out low-interest loans to local governments to
replace lead service lines.

HB 4175 Drinking Water Loan Fund

Creates the Drinking Water Emergency Loan
Fund, which would allow for the owner or operator
of a public water supply to apply for emergency
funding for remedial purposes if it is found there is
a threat of contamination to its drinking water.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

HB 4339 Lead-Free Pipes/Fittings

Updates the definition of what constitutes ?lead
free" for purposes of pipes and pipe fittings. This
legislation brings the definition in line with the Fed-
eral Safe Drinking Water Act language. Currently,
the statute allows for pipes and pipe fittings to
contain up to 8 percent lead. This bill reduces that
amount to 0.25 percent.

Citizen Oversiqht and Transparency:

HB 4201 and HB 4214 MDEO Citizen
Oversight Commissions

Restores a gubernatorial-appointed citizen over-
sight commission on water quality.

HB 4375 Water Ombudsman

Establishes a Water Ombudsman to advocate for
residents throughout the state concerning wa-
ter-related issues.

HB 2121 Rate Transparency

Increases transparency by requiring water provid-
ers to submit an annual report to DHHS regarding
water rates and how they were determined, along
with information about shut-offs in the previous
yeah

Revise Terms of

 

Relevant Agreements

Rationale

The existing GLWA lease and services agree-
ment?and other decisions regarding cost alloca-
tion?may reflect an undervaluation of the asset
that is leased to GLWA. Furthermore, the structure
of cost allocations between GLWA and DWSD
seems to place uneven obligations-placing what
is possibly an unfair burden on DWSD. Because
the cost allocations were designed without public
review and open consideration many groups feel
that the distributions are arbitrary and unfair. We
recommend responding to those inequities by a
thorough review of the rationale in designing the
cost allocation structure and reconfiguring any
agreements in light of the results of such a review.
In lieu of the ability to conduct assessment of doc-
uments, an appraisal of the system could further
be used to determine to some extent whether the
cost allocations are warranted.

As detailed in this report, the current GLWA lease
agreement could unfairly burden Detroit. It is well
known that many Detroit residents and institutions
feel they have been left out of decision making
regarding the creation of GLWA and, for a longer
time, decision making regarding DWSD. Given the
recent crises in water access and longer-standing
problems with water and environmental quality it is

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 45

clear that despite intention, the people of Detroit
have not been primary beneficiaries of high-quality
drinking and wastewater services. Some of the
recommendations here are necessary inquiries
that will enable greater coordination between resi-
dents and local institutions and the institutions that
govern the provision of drinking and wastewater
services that have significant impacts on public
health and environmental quality?for everyone in
the GLWA service area.

- May reflect an undervaluation of the system or
other errors in calculating the lease payments
or cost allocations

May allocate costs in ways that unfairly burden-
some for Detroit.

Limits the capacity of decision making in
rate-setting structure?a primary means to bal-
ance what are frequently competing demands
of rate setting structures including economic
development, equity, efficiency, and sustain-
ability.

- GLWA governance structure limits the ability
for Detroit to exercise influence in decisions
about the regional system that it owns. Addi-
tionally, the GLWA governance structure limits
the representation of other retail, residential,
and commercial customers that face barriers to
water access including access to clean water,
affordable water, and wastewater services that
promote environmental and public health

- Fails to address the crucial issue of water
affordability and provide durable solutions to
water access

While the perception that the regional water au-
thority and the negotiation of its governing agree-
ments were problematic, these recommendations
do not require discarding the current agreements
entirely. Instead, there are ways to maintain the
current fundamental structure while improving
upon selected areas.

Establishinq a more

eguitable cost-sharing model

We recommend reframing the way costs are
shared in the agreement to make the agreement
more transparent, fair, and equitable. The particu-
lar ways in which the sharing of costs should be
reconfigured is grounds for further inquiry, but will
likely involve making CSO costs common-to-all
and not requiring Detroit to contribute to the lease
payment on its own system. Other cost-sharing
practices should be reframed along these lines, re-
alizing that the agreement offers a mechanism for
actively amending historical inequity in the region,
ensuring the sustainability of local infrastructure,
and ensuring the human right to water.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

FOR FURTHER INQUIRY

 

In order to effectively advocate and realize
state and federal legislative change, funds
allocated for the development of a large
scale organizing campaign is required. Such
a campaign would involve the merging of
philanthropic, advocacy, policy, and grass-
roots groups. The organizing structure of the
Atlantic Philanthropy's Affordable Care Act
Implementation Fund and the foundation's
coordination of activities offers an example of
a viable model.

Reframing Rate-Setting Structures

The way in which rates are calibrated in utility ser-
vices is key to the equitable distribution of water
and other resources. The current lease agreement,
however, contains provisions that inhibits the de-
velopment of a rate-setting structure that ensures
equity, efficiency, and sustainability.M

GLWA inherited historic rate-setting
structure. As evidenced by the DWSD's massive
debt and use of shutoffs in its final years, that
rate-setting structure failed to effectively recover
costs and ensure access to drink and wastewater
services. With the creation of the GLWA, rate-set-
ting structures remain inadequate to ensure water
security throughout the GLWA service area.

We recommend appraising and studying alterna-
tive rate structures tailored to correct for any unfair
terms in the cost-of-service model?including costs
of affordability and substantial improvement to
Detroit's into water rates. This may dictate water
rate increases above the four percent cap?a cap
which is currently posited in the agreement), and
those increases may vary for different wholesale
customers. lmportantly, any increase in rates must
be accompanied by a robust affordability plan
which comprehensively meets the addresses the
needs of low-income customers. Rate structure
changes should also be represented of the way in
which affluent communities may be more able to
absorb rate increases than low-income and finan-
cially stressed ones.

The particulars of this renewed rate structure pres-
ent grounds for further inquiry. We recommend
conducting extensive research into the develop-
ment of a new, equity-focused rate-setting struc-
ture in Detroit.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 46

nggmigg the GLWA Governance Struc-

ture

There are three primary ways we recommend re-
working the GLWA's governance structures.

The first concerns the GLWA board. There are
currently six members on the GLWA board: two
appointed by Detroit mayor, one from each sub-
urban county (Wayne, Oakland, Macomb), and 1
appointment by the governor, soon to be replaced
from a representative from Flint. A super majority
is required for major decisions about the system.
In order to ensure the equitable representation

of Detroit in decision-making about the regional
system, we recommend increasing the number of
representatives from Detroit.

 

Second, we recommend renegotiating and refining
the terms of what should happen should Detroit
fail to meet its obligations under the agreement.
As discussed in this report, if the terms of the
agreement are kept in place?including a rate
increase cap, cost sharing, and calculations that
are not based on adequate affordability plans?it

is possible that Detroit will be unable to meet its
financial obligations. Should Detroit fall short of

its obligations under the agreements, the city can
lose its rights to set rates, issue bills, and establish
collection processes, also forgoing future lease
payments should the city withdraw. Finally, if con-
flicts arise, disputes can only be settled through
arbitration processes which block access to
courts.

We recommend reworking those terms of the
agreements to ensure fair and equitable conflict
resolutions. Detroit ought to have recourse to legal
resources should conflict arise, and should main-
tain its right to make decisions about the delivery
of water sources to Detroit residents. Determin-
ing what those terms would look like constitutes
grounds for further inquiry by way or fair and dem-
ocratic processes.

Creating Structures to Fund an Affordabil-
ity Plan

One of the fundamental issues with the current
LWA arrangement is that it fails to com-
prehensively address the issue of water affordabil-
ity. Water affordability ought to play a key role in
the terms of the agreement. We recommend re-
framing the agreement to include a comprehensive
income-based affordability plan, described in the
proceeding Recommendation.

Implementation

We have defined some problems with the current
agrements, but this does not mean it is necessary
to abandon the agreements in full. Rather, the
agreements ought to be reframed by way of a fair

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi

renegotiation process; provisions for doing so are
outlined in the agreement. Specifically, the agree-
ment calls for periodic review of rate-setting and
cost-sharing practices.65 Those periodic reviews
can provide a mechanism for substantially rework-
ing the terms of the agreement.

In order to ensure the establishment of a fair and
equitable solution, it is necessary that the renego-
tiation process be:

Transparent: Key decisions that have been
made in creating the current structure of
GLWA and DWDS need to be made available
for public review and analysis. Going forward,
the process to make key decisions should be
made available for public review and analysis.
The decision making process should allow for

Fair and Balanced: Specifically, it is important
the voice of Detroit and its residents and other
groups within the GLWA service area are fairly
represented when reworking the terms of the
agreement.

Evidence Based: There are many aspects of
the agreement which merit further inquiry. The
system ought to be comprehensively reap-
praised and cost-allocation practices recon-
sidered. It is crucial that experts be consulted
throughout the review process, and that the
reframed agreement be not only fair, but evi-
dence-based.

Periodic: Considering the multidimensional
nature of the problems with the current agree-
ment, reframing the agreement just once will
be unlikely to achieve comprehensive water
equity. The process ought to be iterative, with
progressive changes and incremental progress
throughout the duration of the lease, with an
aimed at fair and workable solutions.

Implement a Comprehensive

Water Affordability Plan

 

Rationale

We recommend implementing a comprehen-

sive income-based water affordability plan. The
principles of a plan were outlined by the Water
Affordability Program (WAP) designed by Roger
Colton and presented to the Detroit City Council
in 2005.66 The Colton plan has been endorsed by
many in Detroit including Detroit-based water and
welfare activist groups.?

It is necessary to implement a comprehensive
affordability plan in order to safeguard access to
affordable and clean water for all customers in the
GLWA service area. The current assistance-based
affordability plan currently in place is underfunded.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 47

Background on Affordability

The affordability or unaffordability of home utility

bills, whether for energy or for water and sewer-

age services, is most often measured by the per-
centage of household income spent on the bills.

Notably, there is variability in the affordability
thresholds. The EPA deems water affordable if the
average cost of water and wastewater bills consti-
tutes less than 4.5 percent of annual pre-tax me-
dian household income: 2 percent for wastewater
(and 080 controls), and 2.5 percent for potable
water.68 Colton's plan sets the affordable burden
on a sliding scale of 2-3 percent, depending on
household income.69

In order to ensure that water rates are below the
affordable burden, the continues to encour-
age communities to consider and adopt rate struc-
tures that ensure that lower income households
continue to be able to afford vital wastewater
services.?0

lnstituting a comprehensive water affordability
plan is in the best interests of all customers in the
district. As Colton?s 2005 plan discusses, ?while
the unaffordability of water/sewer service certainly
poses a social problem, it manifests itself as a
business problem as well."71 This is because unaf-
fordability contributes to higher instances of un-
paid bills. If bills were less burdensome, customers
would be more likely to pay them, thus avoiding
increased costs associated with collections, ar-
rears, and uncollectible accounts.

The Philadelphia Model

In the fall of 2015, Philadelphia became the first
major city to adopt an income-based affordability
program. Philadelphia?s ?Income Based Water Af-
fordability Program" (IWRAP) was voted in unani-
mously by the City Council and began operations
July 1, 2017.72 IWRAP is designed to ensures
that bills are affordable by capping bills
at a percentage of the household-income. Phila-
delphia?s plan is newly implemented. The design
principles of the Philadelphia plan can be a basis
for plans in other cities and provides valuable
precedent.

Key Components

To companion a robust affordability program, we
propose a rate structure for GLWA that reduces
water and sewage bills to an affordable percent-
age of income. Determining the affordable burden
for customers throughout the regions, either by
way of a fixed percentage of medium household,
a sliding percentage based on poverty level, or by
way of another measure constitutes grounds for
further inquiry. Determining an affordable burden
would require comprehensive information about

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

average water bill costs and annual income.

Once affordable burdens are determined, an
affordability plan could provide affordability assis-
tance by providing fixed credits to GLWA custom-
er's bills. As in Colton's 2005 plan, fixed credits
can be calculated by determining the amount of
a burden-based payment (for example, 4.5 percent
of household income), (ii) the annual bill amount,
and the fixed credit necessary to reduce annu-
al bill to burden-based payment.

There are substantive advantages to this ap-
proach. One administrative advantage is that the
program works within a fixed operating budget be-
cause maximum program coverage is determined
in advance? in contrast to existing assistance pro-
grams, where many bills go unpaid. Additionally,
there is a conservation incentive for the customer,
as under the fixed credit model, the credit is pro-
vided regardless of the actual bill. If consumption
increases, the household pays for that increase.

Implementation

Colton's 2005 Expert Report proposing the Pro?
gram details an estimated program budget and
proposes a cost recovery mechanism. By calculat-
ing the affordable burden for customers at various
brackets of the federal poverty level and assuming
that 40 percent of eligible customers would par-
ticipate in the program, Colton estimated that total
cost of providing fixed credits to low-income cus-
tomers was $9,371 

We recommend further inquiry in order to deter-
mine the cost of implementation of an affordability
program throughout the GLWA service area; the
figures from the 2005 proposal need to be up-
dated to account for demographic changes and
regional implementation?4

Additional Proposed

Program Components

In addition to detailing an income-based afford-
ability plan based on fixed credits, the program
proposed by Colton in 2005 contained two addi-
tional components: for ?arrearage management"
and ?water conservation." More recently, Colton
authored a water affordability plan for the city of
Baltimore, which included an additional crisis inter-
vention component.75

These components are viable additions to the
water affordability package and we recommend
considering including them in the implementation
of this plan in the GLWA service area. While

the details of these additional programs have

not been worked out in this report, they deserve
further inquiry at the time of implementing the
affordability plan.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 48

Arrearage Management

By participating in the affordability program, an ar-
rearage management program can enable custom-
ers to earn credits to reduce pre-program arrears
to a manageable level over an extended period

of time. This is important because an affordable
payment, as made possible by the above
proposal, can still lead to an unaffordable total
payment considering past payment obligations
and late fees. Under the 2005 plan, residents
would pay back some of their arrears over two-
year period, by contributing 0.5 percent of annual
income and remaining in the affordability program.
A similar model could be adopted now.

Water Conservation Comgonent

High water usage in low-income households is
often due to leaks and faulty infrastructure. A
water conservation component in an affordability
scheme would allow investments in water conser-
vation to supplement the rate affordability scheme.
These investments would go towards the distribu-
tion of water conversation kits to residents below
50 percent of the Federal Poverty Level. These kits
would include water-saving fixtures, such as low-
flow shower heads and faucet aerators, as well as
tools for measuring faucet flow and leak rates.

Crisis Intervention Component
Low-income households often lack cash assets

to allow them to handle unexpected expenses

or loss of income. This is in part due to the high
proportion of low-income people who work for an
hourly wage and lack paid leave, meaning that un-
expected medical or family care needs can result
in an abrupt loss of income. These circumstances
should not lead to an acute threat to human health
and well-being. It is possible for the affordability
scheme to include funds set aside a fund to pro-
vide crisis intervention assistance to customers on
an as-needed basis.

A comprehensive water affordability plan will not
only be beneficial in terms of ensuring the human
right to water, but will also help create a more
robust and sustainable GLWA business model.

?Going forward" bad debt savings: as some
of the ongoing bills for current consumption
would (without WAP) result in uncollected
funds by and responsibly,
the accumulation of bad debt. Addressing the
inability to pay by way of an affordability plan
would result in reduction in bad debt and gen-
eral cost savings.

- Reduction in working capital associated with
arrears: high, unaffordable water substantial-
ly increases quantity of accounts in arrears,
which results in additional costs in account

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

management and collections. A water afford-
ability plan would result in substantial savings
in these areas.

Funding the Program

It was proposed that the 2005 Water Affordability
Program be funded by a "meter charge" of $1 .00
per month from residential customers, and $20.00
per month from commercial customers, $275 for
industrial customers, and $80 for schools, munici?
pal buildings, and housing projects.76

In order to calculate the possibility of implement-
ing a similar scheme for the proposed regional
affordability plan, updated numbers on quantities
of customers in the various classes listed above
is required." We recommend further inquiry into
the possibility of funding the affordability plan with
meterage charges.

Another funding option is to incorporate afford-
ability into the cost-of-service model. Currently,
the cost of service for customers is determined

by considering costs associated with Operations
and Management (08M) and Capital Improvement
Programs GLWA calculates rates for re-
tail and wholesale customers by determining the
costs associated with these two areas (08M and
CIP) and the average consumption and numbers
of customers. Delivery of affordable water could
be assumed in calculating the costs of Operations
and Management, in which case an affordability
plan could be a part of the cost-of-service model.

Legal Issues

Some have objected to implementing an in-
come-based water affordability plan in Detroit on
the grounds that it violates Article 9, Section ?31
of the Michigan Constitution, commonly known as
the Headlee Amendment.79 The amendment postu-
lates that new taxes require voter approval.

Headlee is relevant for the case of an in-
come-based affordability plan given the way that
local governments have occasionally disguised
new taxes as fees. The objection holds that the
meterage fees? a proposed mechanism for fund-
ing the affordability plan? constitute a tax imposed
on GLWA customers. In claiming this, critics
often appeal to the 1998 Bolt vs. City of Lansing
case.?30 The Bolt case yielded that a stormwater
service charge imposed in the city of Lansing, MI
constituted a tax that requires voter approval.

For a variety of reasons, this objection is flawed.
An income-based affordability plan funded by met-
erage fees does not require the implementation of
taxes and thus does not require a voter approval.

The inapplicability of Headlee and the Bolt case to
an income-based affordability plan is outlined in a
June 2017 Memorandum produced by the ALCU

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 49

of Michigan.81 The Memorandum appeals to the
way in which the criteria for a fee constituting a
tax?as enumerated in the Bolt case?do not apply
to the issue of water affordability.

The key issue in Bolt was whether a stormwater
service fee on all Lansing property owners was
a service charge or tax. The court held that the
stormwater fees constituted a tax because:

they did not serve a regulatory purpose.

- they were not proportionate to the necessary
costs of service.

- paying the charges was involuntary.

As the Memorandum enumerates, these criteria do
not apply in the case of a water affordability plan
funded by meterage fees.

The court determined that because the fees were
generating revenue and did benefit the public at
large instead of individual customers, that they did
not have a regulatory purpose. In the case of WAP,
the money collected does not generate revenue-
it does not flow into the general budgets of the
city or the utility, but is used specifically to fund
the affordability plan.

Moreover, as the ACLU analysis described, ?key to
appreciating the true nature of charges associated
with an affordability plan is the fact that the ben-
efits are not limited to low income customers??
These benefits, described previously in this sec-
tion, include the ways in which the plan enables a
higher proportion of residents to be paying cus-
tomers, thus relieving pressure on the utility asso-
ciated with unpaid accounts and arrears.

Additionally, in the case of water affordability, un-
like the stormwater charges, the costs of the fees
do not exceed the cost of the service. Although
more data and analysis is needed in order precise-
ly to determine the updated costs of the plan, and
corresponding meterage fees, the fees charged
to fund the program are intended to simply cover
program costs: the expected costs of providing
income based credits, the administration of the
program, and the costs of additional program 
arrearage assistance, water conversation, crisis
management, etc.) The fees are thus not dispro-
portionate.

Finally, the meterage fees associated with water
affordability are voluntary, while in the Bolt case,
there were mandatory? that is, all Lansing resi-
dents were required to pay the fee, while in the
case of GLWA water affordability, only people who
choose to have a water account has to pay the
fee. It is incorrect to associate a tax with a volun-
tary service.

Claiming that the affordability plan violates the
Headlee amendment is misplaced considering
the key features of a tax, as opposed to a fee.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

These attributes of a tax i.e. not serving a regula?
tory purpose, disproportionality, and involuntari-

ness?were enumerated in the Bolt case and do

not apply to the case of implementing a regional
affordability plan.

Incorporate Basic Consumer

 

Protections into GLWA Policies

Rationale

Many of the relevant problems with drinking and
waste water security in Detroit and the GLWA ser-
vice area are rooted in the lack of basic consumer
protections in service providers? policies. In order
to curb the inequitable treatment of water cus-
tomers in the future, we recommend incorporating
basic consumer protections into GLWA policies.?

Components

Colton?s Water Affordability Program, commis-
sioned by DWSD in 2005, proposed imple-
menting a series of basic customer protections
pertaining to collection practices. His
recommendations pertained specifically to the
imposition of late fees, issuance of notices of the
disconnection of service, and the negotiation of
deferred payment plans for arrears.

In line with Colton's proposal and the needs of the
region's water customers, and in conjunction with
the Water Affordability Plan outlined previously, we
recommend implementing consumer protections in
those three areas.

Late Fees34

DWSD-R imposes a late fee of five per-
cent for accounts that are overdue.85 Similar fees
are imposed by wholesale service providers. Late
fees disproportionately affect low-income cus-
tomers. Given that water is simply unaffordable
for many low-income households, late fees add
additional cost burdens to those who are unable
to cover water costs in the first place. In addition,
this additional cost burden does not even provide
a substantial incentive to pay bills.

As Colton notes, the primary cost of late fees is
to compensate for the additional costs associated
with overdue accounts. They should not generate
additional cash flow or be used for overhead and
admin. These include the costs of collections?Le.
postage, phone calls, and required personnel?as
well as ?carrying charges," or the costs of the inter-
est on any funds DWSD borrows to cover losses.
Five percent late fee charges well exceed these
costsf?6 Additionally, collection practices do not
begin the moment an account becomes overdue,
while late fees are immediately and automatically

Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District 50

in place. In this way, late fees often do not corre-
spond with any cost-bearing collection practices.

As Colton remarks, ?what the non-cost-based late
fee really does is to generate a stream of revenue
by charging low-income customers more than it
costs to serve them?? Given the excessive cost
of late fees, we recommend either eliminating late
fees altogether or reducing them to the actual
costs of nonpayment.

Shutoff Notices

We recommend developing customer protections
regarding water shutoffs.?3 This recommenda-
tion is a companion with the recommendation to
su3pend the practice of water shutoffs until the
process can distinguish between the ability to pay
and unwillingness to pay. Going fon/vard, shut-
offs should only be issued when there is a clear
demonstrated ability to pay.

Notices must not be issued when there is no in-
tent to terminate service. This has occurred in the
past, perhaps because service providers did not
have the resources to carry out the shutoffs, or
because there was no intent originally.

A time limit must be established for shutoff notic-
es. More specifically, if service is not disconnected
within 15 days, the notice ought to be void. This

is significant considering the formidable effects
shutoffs have on households and the need to plan
for them accordingly. This is not possible when a
threat of a shutoff exists but is not executed in a
predictable, timely fashion.

DWSD should not distribute two consecutive
notices of disconnection. Shutoff notices should
outline the steps the customer can take in order to
avoid termination of services. By sending repeated
notices, service providers negate the original pur-
pose of notices in this regard.

Deferred Payment Plans for

Arrears

DWSD and many other service providers currently
have mechanisms for negotiating Payment Plan
Agreements (PPAs) for customers with accounts
in arrears, outlined in ?Interim Collec-
tion Rules and Procedures," for example. That
document describes the way in which DWSD

can terminate service for customers who fail to
comply with the terms of the PPA and that DWSD
is not required to negotiate a second plan. Note
that the details of such an arrangement differ for
various wholesale providers, who each conceive
and implement their own policies. In adherence

to Colton's 2005 WAP, we recommend reframing
service providers' arrearage management proce-
dures in the following ways:

Renegotiable payment plans: If a customer's

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

financial circumstances change during the pe-
riod negotiated by the PPA, service providers
should be required, if the customer requests it,
to renegotiate the terms of the plan.

- Encourage reinstatement: If a customer de-
faults on a PPA, their status can be reinstated
(and not under the threat of service termina-
tion) if they pay the past-due balance.

.. installments: Arrears should be paid
in regular installments, and terms
should be extended to ensure that 
installment payments do not exceed a one-
month average bill.

Implement Green Infrastructure

Initiatives

 

Rationale

Green infrastructure can offer a multi-dimensional
solution to many of Detroit?s interrelated problems.
The potential benefits of green infrastructure are
far?reaching, and Detroit is well-suited to become
a leader in sustainable urban development.

Note that green infrastructure does not supplant
the need for the need of substantial improvements
to the city's traditional ?grey" infrastructure. On the
other hand, cost savings from the implementation
of a green infrastructure initiative can help to fund
substantial future capital improvements.

This section considers the specific features that
make Detroit a site for green infrastructure proj-
ects. There should be additional study and inquiry
to identify opportunities throughout GLWA ser-
vice area.

What is Green Infrastructure?

Green infrastructure includes both natural and engi-
neered environmental upgrades that promote water
reuse and infiltration into the natural aquifer and
prevents combined sewer overflows, which can be
harmful to the environment and cause health haz-
ards. A list of green infrastructure installations by
type and purpose produced by the US Environmen-
tal Protection Agency, these green infrastructure
types and analyses are detailed to promote green
infrastructure investment nationally.89

Green infrastructure diverts stormwater away from
the sewer system, offering a simple and cost-ef-
fective solution to upgrading the entire regional
system. The primary method for doing so involves
transforming impervious surfaces.

Impervious surfaces are man-made structures that
prevent infiltration of water into the ground. In the
built environment, impervious structures include
parking lots, sidewalks, and building roofs. In De-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

51

GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE OPPORTUNITY

Unemployment

troit, rainwater, melted snow, and other forms of
runoff drain from these surfaces into the combined
sewer, where the runoff is then treated alongside
other kinds of waste.

The natural environment?planted gardens, wood-
ed lots, areas of surface water or low-lying land?
are pervious surfaces that permit stormwater to
replenish the natural aquifer and do not burden
the common sewer system. Green infrastructure
reduces the number of impervious surfaces and
redirects stormwater that flows off of impervious
surfaces to properly prepared green surfaces that
can accept the water.

Stormwater that does not enter the combined
sewer system does not require transportation to

a sewage treatment plant or the labor and chemi-
cals needed to clean it, and it does not need to be
transported back in the water service line system.
The savings in labor, chemicals, and energy for
waste management systems and devices pays
dividends on a permanent basis for every green
infrastructure installation in which the city invests.

Detroit: An Ideal Setting

There are currently a variety of green infrastruc-
ture projects underway in Detroit and the region.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

 

Since 201 1, after identifying peak overflow areas,
DWSD has led initiatives to plant trees, ?green"
vacant properties, and disconnect downspouts,
among other efforts. 9? In 2014, the Michigan
Council of Governments (SEMCOG) published
the Green Infrastructure Vision for Southeast
Michigan, which details the way in which imple-
menting green infrastructure practices will have a
variety of positive outcomes. Since, DWSD has
invested substantially in the development of green
infrastructure initiatives.91 The green infrastructure
program proposed in this report complements
existing initiatives in proposing larger scale im-
plementation focused on socially conscious infra-
structure development.

Detroit has many well-documented challenges to
its reemergence as a prosperous and thriving city.
Yet some of these challenges become assets in a
bold and resourceful green infrastructure strategy.
Four of these challenges-turned-assets include:

The city of Detroit and DWSD have a long history
of disinvestment in existing infrastructure. This
failure to invest has reached an acute stage with
litigation fines penalties associated with their
outdated combined sewer system, along with
increasingly dire health concerns requiring imme-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

diate action. Though the implementation of green
infrastructure initiatives certainly does not curb
the need for substantial improvements to the city's
grey infrastructure, green infrastructure represents
the lowest cost, highest reward strategy for rein-
vestment in the aging infrastructure.

The city of Detroit has an unemployment rate of at
least eight percent, andmany of the job opportu-
nities pay less than a living wage.92 The available
workforce within Detroit neighborhoods is much
higher than the national average. Green infrastruc-
ture creates jobs that are distributed throughout
neighborhoods, pay a living wage, and can help
workers earn skills for future employment.

The combination of population loss, business clo-
sure, and business relocation has resulted in an
enormous quantity of unused land throughdut De-
troit that is available for repurposing. The coveted
properties in the Midtown area have been assem-
bled by large, wealthy developers with the aid of
the city and state, while much of the surplus land
is unused, available at very low cost, and in dire
need of reinvestment. Vacant land is the vehicle for
green infrastructure reinvestment, and its low cost
has a dramatically positive impact on the feasibility
of installing and obtaining investment return on
green infrastructure.

Detroit's nonprofit and grassroots infrastructure
is strong and shows a clear commitment to the
revitalization of the city. Their knowledge of the
capacity and needs of each neighborhood ought
to be incorporated into prototypes and programs
that are tailored to Detroit?s unique potential.

Michigan's Department of Environmental Quality
has developed and implemented several extensive
green infrastructure projects in the city and the
region in recent years;93 the initiatives we propose
here complement green infrastructure projects
underway in Detroit. These existing initiatives set
precedent for the potential of green strategies.
What we suggest here is a significant increase in
scale of these programs and also principles that
should be integrated into current efforts underway.

Green infrastructure can also reduce costs asso-
ciated with the combined sewer system by lessen-
ing the quantity of impervious surfaces, and thus
reducing the amount of water entering the system.
This diversion of runoff results in savings in labor,
chemical, and energy costs, as well as costs asso-
ciated with preventing combined sewer overflows.

Benefits for Community

Sustainability and Wellness

Green infrastructure protects public health as

well as the health of the water and sewer system.
Installations are designed to permanently divert
stormwater from entering the combined sewer sys-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

tem or to reduce the flow of water into the com-
bined sewer system, preventing peak flows from
breaching the system, through which pollutants

to enter streams and rivers. Green infrastructure
can work effectively throughout the region to solve
the drainage overflow problem, protect the local
environment, satisfy EPA mandates, and reduce
DWSD operation costs.

Moreover, direct and indirect public health benefits
of natural space includef'4

- Providing space for exercise and respite
- Mitigating urban pollution

- Generating stronger immune systems [through
parasympathetic stimulation]

- Improving the health of pregnant women and
infants95

- Strengthening social ties by providing space
for community and family gatherings

Offering space for children to play and for par-
ents to forge stronger social ties

- Alleviating stresses on social services by
boosting public health

- Filtering and redirecting stormwater runoff

Fiscal Benefits

Green surfaces are economically valuable be-
cause they improve the efficiency and effective-
ness of stormwater management. Establishing a
green and sustainable system for the DWSD and
the customers it serves could save billions over
the next 25 years.?3

There are a variety of types of cost savings asso-
ciated with green infrastructure. By relieving pres-
sure on the existing, antiquated water and sewage
system, implementing green infrastructure curbs
the need for substantial capital improvements to
grey infrastructure.

Relatedly, by reducing flow into the system, and
thus the volume sent to wastewater treatment
plants, there are additional savings in energy,
labor, and treatment costs. Reduction in flow to
the system also helps to circumvent combined
sewage overflows (080), thus avoiding fees and
fines associated with CSOs and environmental
breaches.

Green infrastructure plans in Philadelphia and
New York City offer examples of how innovative
green infrastructure initiatives can yield substantial
fiscal benefits. In Philadelphia, a comprehensive
green infrastructure approaches estimated to cost
just $1.2 billion over the next 25 years, compared
to over $6 billion for ?gray" infrastructure, a term
used for the concrete tunnels created to move
water. 97 Similarly, in New York, ?every fully vege-
tated acre of green infrastructure would provide

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 53

BENEFIT MATRIX BENEFIT NETWORK

.0.0
.0.
CO.
0..
0..
0..
0..
0..

total annual benefits of $8.52 in reduced ener-
gy demand, $166 in reduced COQ emissions,
$1,044 in improved air quality, and $4,725 in
increased property value."98 Even after the initial
investment, green infrastructure continues to pay
dividends for decades.

Moreover, green surfaces also offer important
economic value in making neighborhoods more
attractive for residents and investors. Innovations
include aesthetically pleasing improvements to
neighborhoods, planting tree lawns, growing low

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi

IIF LIFE

maintenance plantings and swales, urban gar-
dening, building and maintaining wet detention
(ponds) and dry detention, (low-lying excavated
land) that is been planted with prairie grass.

Additional fiscal benefits of green infrastructure
include higher employment, improvement in the tax
base that supports schools and infrastructure, and
a more equitable economic balance within the city
of Detroit and the surrounding region.

Green infrastructure can curb the costs of storm
water overflow. it is not only better for the envi-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

54

ronment and better for neighborhoods, it also
directly mitigates fiscal strain on the water depart-
ment and on customers.

The current gray infrastructure is ineffective and
expensive to maintain, but it also accrues addi-
tional expenses in fines from the EPA for violating
Clean Water Act regulations.? As described in
Section II and in Recommendation 7 in this sec-
tion, the costs associated with combined sewage
overflows, which are inequitably shouldered by
Detroit. dramatically increase costs for individual
households, small businesses, and community or-
ganizations. Green infrastructure offers a solution
for reducing storm water's burden on the system,
and correspondingly, the burden of drainage fees
on DWSD customers.

Aligning with

Community Support

A green infrastructure initiative supports the in-
terests of the local community. In March 2017, for
example, hundreds of local ministers of churches
serving the city of Detroit and the surrounding
communities wrote a letter to the mayor of Detroit
requesting his advocacy on a number of measures
to address the inequities presented by the current
system.?0 Among them was a request that the
mayor advocate a bold and ambitious green infra-
structure plan for the city of Detroit.

In a public meeting in May 2017, Mayor Duggan
took the first step toward directing public attention
to the value of green infrastructure. In the public
presentation, he provided a commitment of $5
million per annum to address green infrastructure.
Funding for this comes from the annual GLWA
lease payment.

Components

The elements of a green infrastructure program
that creates a virtuous cycle for the Detroit com-
munity include:

An initial capital source sufficient to fund a
large array of green infrastructure installations
on properties throughout the city of Detroit.

- A strategy for identifying the most beneficial
areas to support the reduction in peak com-
bined sewer overflow which have the greatest
economic and environmental impact on the
water and sewerage service area and on the
city.

- A strategy for assembling land for green in-
frastructure installations primarily among the
72,173 parcels already assembled in the land
bank.101

- Development of several engineering prototypes
for green infrastructure installation that can be
designed for permitting and priced for financ-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

ing and contracting.

- Cultivation of a corps of local, minority-owned
small business enterprises equipped and
trained to perform contracts for green infra-
structure installation.

- Establishment of a small business association
(SBA) or micro-lending loan program to pro-
vide working capital and equipment financing
for small contractors who can efficiently and
economically execute contracts for green
infrastructure.

Establishment of a protocol for measuring eco-
nomic and environmental benefits from each
type of green infrastructure installation and
translating these economies into aggregated
savings to the DWSD and GLWA for purpose
of reinvestment.

- Development of a strategy for tax increment
financing or other long-term investment cap-
ture vehicles for the purpose of monetizing
cash flows for additional capital investments
in green infrastructure.

Initial Capital Source

The Lease Agreements, both

for water and sewer call for a 40-year stream of
payments to both DWSD and directly to the city
of Detroit. The lease payment is held in a fund
belonging to the Authority. That fund can be
used to maintain Detroit?s water and sewerage
infrastructure, to pay debt services associate
with those improvements, or to contribute to the
common-to-all improvements in the system. 102
We propose that a portion of this lease payment
be pledged in order to sell bonds for large-scale
capital improvements.

Identifying Peak Overflow

Processing stormwater runoff as sanitary waste is
an expensive and inefficient practice. As previously
mentioned, rainwater from the combined sewer
overflow can result in substantial damage to the
environment, and controlling those overflows is
also incredibly costly. Green infrastructure offers
an avenue for curbing increased pressure on the
system during peak runoff, which would have a
positive economic impact while also highest miti-
gating environmental concerns.

The EPA has documented many of the areas
where peak flows result combined sewer over-
flow.103 We recommend additional inquiry in these
areas; focusing resources on high impact areas
pays the highest early dividends to the utility and
to the city at large.

Assembling Land
Green infrastructure requires a great deal of avail-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 55

POINTS FOR FURTHER INQUIRY

 

This report is preliminary in nature, and seeks to lay the groundwork for further inquiry into water equity issues
in Detroit. It is crucial that further inquiry is not only empirically sound, but also take the voices of Detroit com-
munity members and the history of regional inequity into account. We have identified several areas for further
inquiry in this report. Some notable areas include:

Continued research into the effects of water scarcity on community health and well-being: This
report identified several of the negative implications of water shutoffs in Detroit, but further inquiry into these
issues is crucial. Additional analysis ought to delve deeper into the way in water deprivation impacts community
health, happiness, social mobility, safety, and cohesion, among other areas. There are a variety of organizations
doing great work in this area, notably the People's Water Board Community Research Collective.?5?

Detailed, toward-looking analysis of the current GLWA agreement: There are several problems with
the current agreement, many of which inequitably burden Detroit. As discussed in Section II,
some of these problems are the insufficient lease payment, current rate-setting and cost~sharing structures.
There is also much work to be done regarding the development and implementation of an income-based water
affordability plan, including determining affordable burdens and program costs, developing cost recovery mech-
anisms, and creating structures for program sustainability. Transparent and fair inquiry into these problems,
among other, and the development of workable and sustainable solutions is crucial.

DeveIOpment of a large scale organizing campaign:

Additional development of the green infrastructure initiative: We have presented some of the primary
elements of a robust green infrastructure program in Detroit, but further inquiry in a variety of areas is required.
These include the development of a comprehensive financial model for funding the program, engineering pro-
totypes, determining ideal locations for implementation green infrastructure projects, and developing strategies
for measuring long-term impact, among others.

Working towards the development and implementation of protective water legislation: The human
right to water ought to be protected under the law at the local, watershed, state, and national levels. Further
development of workable legislation and advocacy towards those ends is required.

Continued community engagement and education: It is crucial that citizens voices are heard and taken
serious through the development and implementation of measured aimed at achieving water equity in Detroit.
Educating community members about the issues at hand and possible solutions is a crucial element of ensur-
ing community participation. Further dissemination of the issues discussed here, though a variety of mecha-

nisms, is imperative.

able land, and Detroit has more than enough: in
2017, there were 72,173 publicly owned parcels
in Detroit.??4 Land assembly to support critical
green infrastructure installations is especially fea-
sible given the enormous inventory of land parcels
under the control of the land bank.

Green infrastructure is a productive use of al-
ready vacant land, and policies for using vacant
properties owned by the land bank should reflect
that. An administrative rule that sequesters land
transfers of high-impact areas for green infra-
structure intervention and prioritizes the delivery
of land in conjunction with such green infrastruc-
ture development would be efficient and effective
in accelerating the process of developing green
infrastructure in Detroit.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

Engineering Prototypes

The US EPA has developed best practices for
green infrastructure development and has outlined
appropriate designs.105 Adapting this research to
the city of Detroit could be done by local civil en-
gineers who develop a series of easily replicable
engineering prototypes. These prototypes would
be preapproved by the city of Detroit for permit-
ting, studied by aspiring small contractors, care-
fully estimated and priced with published figures,
and implemented in various scales to match the
volume of stormwater flow at each location. Sys-
tematizing these engineering solutions will make
it possible to post real-time results on investment,
to strategize priorities, and to encourage partici-
pation at individual properties.106

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 58

FAIR REINVESTMENT MODEL

upgrade [hr vlue and
supply lines lm water 90

LII. ii H'Jnilur
all!? plan that
UH. is the: mm.
able: [14:34swam lot eali 

 

Prototypes ought to be structured for rapid devel-
opment and subsequent cash infusions for small
businesses. This ?quick payday" structure is key
for supporting fledgling and growing businesses.
Wages earned from these activities will likely be
reinvested in neighborhoods, because, as a per-
centage of income, low-income populations are
much more likely to spend money in their commu-
nities than the wealthy.107

Cultivating Small, Local, and
Minority-owned Businesses

A critical component in building a truly virtuous
cycle for green infrastructure is to create an equi-
table business infrastructure. Some challenges for
small minority owned business include:

- Business certification

- Best practices in performance

Best practices in record and bookkeeping

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi

 

The engineering prototypes can be coupled with
comprehensive support and guidance for aspiring
small contractors. Webinars, open forums, and
capacity-building seminars can be utilized to teach
a corps of small contractors to build capacity

and living wage jobs throughout the community.
Supporting the growth of contractors also creates
more local jobs and decreases the likelihood that
jobs are outsourced.

Capacity-Building for Local

Businesses

A serious impediment to small, minority-owned
business development is lack of capital. We recom-
mend enabling these businesses to drive the im-
plementation of green infrastructure by creating an
environment of safe and prudent business lending.

The US Small Business Association?s insurance
and micro-lending programs are examples of ex-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 57

cellent precedent for structures that provide for
the credit and banking needs in communities.

We recommend reproducing that structure by way
of a prototype phase of green infrastructure de-
velopment structured for capacity-building, quick
turnaround (and subsequent cash flow for growing
businesses), and fair loans. These resources are
most likely to be reinvested in local businesses
and the local economy, an essential element of the
virtuous cycle.

The importance of establishing a local contractor
network cannot be overstated, as these dollars
stay in the community, circulate among other busi-
nesses, and produce payroll for other employment.
National studies show that these dollars circulate
at least five times through the local community
amplifying the impact of local contracting.108 The
small-scale of these individual contracts permit
rapid completion, shortened billing cycles, and
encourage a more robust growth in hiring and
supporting labor.

Protocol for Measuring

Benefits

Green Infrastructure presents a broad range of
economic and social benefits to the community
and to each of the participants in the process.
These benefits submit to a triple bottom line (TBL)
analysis: green infrastructure has multidimensional
benefits and is environmentally, economically, and
social sustainable.

Economic benefits include an economic return
on investment by the utility, broader economic
benefit to the community, including an increased
tax base, and relatedly, additional funds for com-
munity health, education, and development. The
local and state government benefits from the in-
creased employment and the lifting from poverty
of a green workforce. Green infrastructure also
yields extensive public health benefits, resulting in
reduced cost to the hospital and emergency care,
for example.

It is crucial that the multidimensional benefits be
subject to extensive measurement and research,
so as to contribute public knowledge about the

benefits of the strategies and help govern future
implementation.

Analysis of the impact of Low Impact Development
(LID), green infrastructure initiatives in Philadelphia
offers viable precedent for a comprehensive triple
bottom line analysis. Features assessed in the
August 2009 triple bottom line analysis include
recreation; increased community aesthetics (and
relatedly, higher property values; heat stress re-
duction; water quality and aquatic ecosystems
improvement; wetland creation and enhancement;
poverty reduction from local green jobs; energy

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu mosesmi

savings and carbon footprint reduction; air quality
improvement; construction and maintenance-relat-
ed disruption.

The assessment found that ?LlD-based green
infrastructure approaches provide a wide array of
important and environmental benefit to the com-
munities, and that those benefits are not generally
provided by the more traditional alternatives."109
We recommend implemented comparable assess-
ment and analysis mechanisms in Detroit.

Development of Structures that

Ensure Long-Term Investment

In order to sustain the long-term growth and de-
velopment of the proposed green infrastructure
program, it is crucial to develop mechanisms that
ensure the fiscal sustainability of the program over
time. Opportunely, the City of Detroit thrives on
attracting investment within its borders and, with
those funds, reestablishing viable neighborhoods
within the region. The extremely low entry cost for
housing in the makes the city a viable cite for se-
curing funds for economic development.

Infrastructure is part and partial to economically
and environmentally sustainable development.
In order to secure funding for the infrastructure
imitative proposed here, we recommend a multi-
stage plan:

- Monetize the cash flow available under the ex-
isting GLWA lease agreement, which will likely
result in over $100,000,000 in bond proceeds
for green infrastructure.

- Renegotiate the lease agree-
ment achieve an equitable rental payment for
the system, thereby greatly increasing the bond
generating capacity of DWSD and making it
possible to increase its total green infrastruc-
ture investment to over $1 billion.

- Select surplus land in high impact areas for
080 abatement and, green infrastructure de-
velopment coupled with community/economic
development.

- Establish broad tax increment financing dis-
tricts which includes the built environment in
the area surrounding green infrastructure proj-
ect and the acquisition of vacant land adjacent
to or near green infrastructure projects

- With the improved environmental performance
of the green infrastructure investment and the
improved aesthetic quality of the surrounding
neighborhood based upon these investments,
encourage new housing and commercial de-
velopment that is compatible with the existing
uses and users of the neighborhood.

- Monitor increased property value and tax reve-
nue achieved in these districts and, when pre-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water 81 Sewer District

dictable growth occurs, monetize this periodic
increase in tax increment revenue to issue new
supplemental bonds used to provide green
infrastructure in contiguous neighborhoods.

- Repeat the tax increment financing mapping,

designation, and tracking of property values in 

conjunction with the new green infrastructure
investment.

- Again, once increased revenue is realized from
new investment, captured that in a new bond
issue which would be used to make a later
stage green infrastructure investment.

Our recommendation is that tools such as dedicat-
ing the non-school portion of increased property
tax revenues? a feature common to Midtown or
commercial business District development? can
be repurposed for use in multiple neighborhoods
as a means of upgrading those neighborhoods
and upon success of the first investments, suc-
cessive additional neighborhoods/sites for green
infrastructure implementation.

Conclusion

The layers of social, political, and environmental is-
sues that have contributed to the inequitable distri-
bution of water in Detroit require a multidimension-
al response. It is our intention that by offering the

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

basis of a solution, we can highlight the possibility
of path forward for Detroit that is socially, econom-
ically, and environmentally sustainable.

Our recommendations include,

- Suspending the use of water service shutoffs
until processes can distinguish between the
willingness to pay apart from those unable to
pay

0 Analyzing the calculation of the annual lease
payment of the regional system and appraising
the value of the asset

- Researching, designing, advocating, and imple-
menting legislation that can promote access to
drinking water and wastewater

- Reworking the terms of the 
lease agreement

- Design and implement a comprehensive in-
come-based water affordability plan

- Incorporating basic consumer protections into
GLWA and DWSD-R customer policies

- Initiating a robust green infrastructure program

In crafting and implementing multidimensional
solutions to Detroit's problems, community sup-
port and input is crucial. Community-led initiatives
and knowledge from activists on the ground are
integral resources to effectively improving the
existing system.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

59

 

SECTION 

 

 

 

Water Shutoffs as
a Revenue Generation


The Costs of the Crisis:
Water Scarcity and
Community Health

and Well-being 63

Conclusion 68

WATER INSECURITY
IN DETROIT: THE COSTS
OF THE CRISIS

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 

 

Water Insecurity in Detroit:
The Costs of the Crisis

WATER, AND SPECIFICALLY Clean water, is
central to a wide range of essential activities. It is
needed to drink, cook, flush and clean toilets, and
clean bodies, clothes, food and homes. If water is
not accessible, affordable, and safe, human health
and well-being are severely endangered.

At least 100,000 Detroit families have had their
water shut off since 2014.110 While the annual
number of shutoffs has decreased since then, in
March 2018, the Detroit Free Press reported that
at least 17,000 households were at risk for shut-
offs.111 This news follows the Detroit City Council?s
approval of a $7.8 million contract to Homrich
Wrecking for conducting water shutoffs.112 Re-
cords obtained by Bridge Magazine show that
residential shutoffs dropped from 33,000 in 2014
to 23,000 in 2015, but increased again to 27,552
in 2016.113

  

    
  
   

 



{aimgag?

?3


i

II Ar?'hs:



?Why tear up property and seam
it and everything? You?re making
things worse. They city is already
going down. You say the bank
owns the water company and
you?re going after the residents.
The bank already made all these
houses in 
people come and take whatever
they offer, so now here we have
to water company doing the
same thing. That?s so wrong.?
Rosalyn Walker, from Detroit Minds Dying

    
   
 
 



 
 








 
  
   

49



 
     
 

AA

FLINT WATER PLANT

till

 

Image from the fiim Do My Dying. Coutesy of Kate Levy, available online at 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 61

Water crises across the US have attracted grow-
ing national and international audiences. Pontiac,
Flint, and Detroit, Michigan, in particular, have
received a great amount of attention as a result of
the rich grassroots activist responses to threats to
water access.

In October 2014, following a summer of wide-
spread water shutoffs in Detroit, the city gained
international attention when two United Nations
Special Rapporteurs: Catarina de Albuquerque,
the UN Special Rapporteur on the human right to
water and sanitation, and Leilani Farha, the Spe-
cial Rapporteur on the right to adequate housing,
visited the city. Albuquerque, appalled by the scale
of shutoffs, claimed in a press conference that ?it
is contrary to human rights to disconnect water
from people who simply do not have the means to
pay their bills."114 She continued: ?In practice, peo-
ple have no means to prove the errors and hence
the bills are impossible to the indignity
suffered by people whose water was disconnect-
ed is unacceptable."115

Notably, Albuquerque made an earlier tour of the
US to assess the status of the human right to
quality drinking water and sanitation. This tour in-
cluded visits to Alabama, Alaska, Michigan, Puerto
Rico, and West Virginia. ?5 Each of these places
experiences unique challenges in ensuring afford-
ability while also financing the maintenance of sys-
terns that can sustain the distribution of clean, safe
water. Underscoring the connections between
water quality and affordability, Albuquerque was
accompanied by the UN Special Rapporteur on
extreme poverty and human rights. The trip includ-
ed a visit to water and sanitation systems in rural
Alabama, where the absence of adequate service
has created public health problems thought to

?It is contrary to human rights
to disconnect water from
people who simply do not
have the means to pay their
In practice, people
have no means to prove the
errors and hence the bills are
impossible to 
the indignity suffered by
people whose water was
disconnected is unacceptable.?

Catarina de Albuquerque, United Nations
Special Rapporteur on the Human Right
to Water

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu mosesmi

PLACES FACING WATER
AND SEWERAGE PROB-
LEMS: A PARTIAL LIST

Cities in Alabama, especially rural Ala-
bama, Alaska, Michigan, Puerto Rico,
and West Virginia

Boston and Falmouth Massachusetts,
Sacramento, Redding, 
the Vl?nnemen Winto tribe, New Or-
leans, Seville, and other communities
in California's San Joaquin Valley, and
Edmonston, Maryland.

Flint and Detroit, Michigan, Baltimore,
Maryland, East Cleveland, Ohio, New-
burgh, New Jersey, Los Angeles and
many rural and urban cities in Arizona,
North Carolina, Kentucky, Mississippi
and Alabama are contending with rising
rates that limit economic access and
associated problems with water quality.

 

have been eradicated in developed countries.

Water affordability is a nationwide problem. The
US EPA sets an affordability standard of 4.5
percent for combined water and wastewater
services.?7 A recent University of Michigan study
found that using this standard, 1 1.9 percent of
US households have unaffordable water bills.??3
Given the projected increases in costs of water
and wastewater services in the next five years, the
authors estimated that figure could reasonably rise
to 35.5 percent.119 Many of the studies of water
access in the US focused on affordability have
noted that improving aging infrastructure is crucial
for effective interventions. However, an estimated
$1 trillion needed to upgrade the country's water
and sanitation systems, without which issues sur-
rounding water poverty will worsen.120

By delving into the causes and implications of the
water crisis in Detroit, we can begin to understand
the wide-ranging, detrimental effects of water
inequity. This endeavor, we hope, will set the stage
for cultivating preventative strategies for and re-
sponses to impending water crisis nationally and
globally.

We focus here on the far-reaching impacts of
limited water quality and access on individuals,
families, and communities. We seek to humanize
these issues by detailing the real, human costs of
unaffordable water by focusing specifically on the
way water scarcity in Detroit threatens households

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

WATER - HIGH RISK TRACTS NATIONALLY





K.

1\ 



d'

 

phoenix. Arucna

access to water and sanitation and erodes public
health and environmental quality throughout the
service area.

Water Shuto?s as a Revenue
Generation Strategy

Water shutoffs in Detroit are a profound problem
for households and communities. Resorting to
shutoffs is rooted in the choice to sacrifice afford-
ability in an attempt to cover expenses associated
with aging urban infrastructure. Most of the older
water and sewerage systems in the typi-
cally those in urban centers? require expensive
upgrades. Many of those improvements are long
overdue; however, resources to fund these efforts
are lacking?and in some systems, revenues are

in decline. In many cities, like Detroit, the costs
of maintaining aging infrastructure?not to speak
of funding system updates-are passed off onto
users through water rates. Although water rates in
many cities, like Detroit, are relatively low, they are
still unaffordable for low-income people.

Atlanta, Georgia and Seattle, Washington have
some of the highest water rates in the country,
with average bills at $325.52 and $309.72 per
month for a family of four, respectively.121 In 2017,
Philadelphia, made 27,776 water

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

 

   
 
   

Allan?. Georg-a

shutoffs for non-payment of water bills.122 A study
showed that 227,000 Philadelphia customers?four
out of 10 water accounts?were past due.123

Water shutoffs are a of the inoongruity
between two systems. One on side are a set of
strategies that determine how much water users
are expected to pay for water. On the other side
are strategies that finance costs of operation,
maintenance, and infrastructure upgrades neces-
sary to provide quality water.

Shutting off people?s water is a fundamentally
flawed strategy to cover a system's operation
and maintenance?the underlying flawed rationale
being that shutoffs will incentivize customers to
pay. Studies have shown that water utility users in
the US are willing to pay more to access quality
water resources.124 However, given the financial
burden water costs pose for low-income people,
willingness to pay does not always translate to
ability to pay.?5

Water shutoffs are ineffective in incentivizing
people to pay their bills. However, even if they did
incentivize users to pay past due bills, shutting off
a household?s water supply is not an acceptable
point of intervention. The strategy should not even
be on the table, as the inability to afford services
should not result in an acute threat to human

At Risk Trams

-High Risk Tracts

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 63

AREAS FOR FURTHER INQUIRY

?To date, work on water affordability for low income households in developed countries has
received somewhat less attention than work on water in the developing world. International work
on affordability and case studies in the United States have highlighted specific communities

where affordability is an issue. While valuable, the extent that water affordability is a widespread
issue for US households, and where these households are located, remains unclear. This is vital
to unravel since there is currently no federal statute or policy that ensures water access for poor

residents."

(Citation: Mack, EA, Wrase S. (201 A burgeoning crisis? A nationwide assessment ol the geography of water affordability in the United
States. PLOS ONE 12(4): 90176645. 0176645

health and well-being. None of the problems as-
sociated with water poverty 0r water infrastructure
are resolved through water shutoffs. Water poverty
is a systemic effect?and needs systemic remedy.

While the national spotlight on shutoffs has
dimmed since the UN rapporteurs visited Detroit
in 2014, residential shutoffs have continued in
massive numbers. DWSD points to marginal im-
provements in numbers year-to-year, but many
thousands of residential shutoffs continue to occur
in Detroit. While every home that is able to avoid

a shutoff is important, any number of shutoffs is
unacceptable.

Detroit community members have been especially
appalled by the disparities between residential and
commercial shut-offs. While water service is shut
off in numerous homes with relatively low overdue
bill amounts, commercial customers with substan-
tially higher bills haven't experienced shut-offs. In
2014, the Metro Times reported that while resi-
dential customers with bills as low as $150 could
experience shutoffs, large commercial customers.
such as the Louis Arena and Park Gold Club,
owed $80,000 and $200,000, respectively.126

Access to Water and Community
Health and Well-being

Water Shutoffs and

Public Health

Water shutoffs pose serious threats to public
health and perpetuate disparate health outcomes
along race and class lines. Individuals living
without access to water are made vulnerable

to a number of diseases and 'sicknesses?and
existing health problems are intensified. Studies
overwhelmingly confirm the links between water
scarcity and significant negative health outcomes,
including diseases associated with skin and soft
tissue infections, water borne bacteria, and hep-
atitism Poor hygiene resulting from lack of water
access can also spread and create water-related

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

 

problems like skin diseases and gastrointestinal
issues, as handwashing is the first line of defense
against several communicable health problems.
?a With a lack of access to water within the
home, dehydration and its associated problems
complicates problems for those who have chronic
diseases, as well as elderly and young people. ?9
Additionally, water scarcity can affect nutrition, as
the preparation of healthier foods are particular
dependent upon water. The strong association
between water shutoffs and water-associated
illness, particularly as it effects populations under
circumstances of ?social vulnerability," has come to
be known as the literature.130

Disease burdens linked to scarce safe/clean
water, sanitation and hygiene are disproportionate-
ly borne by the vul-
nerable and fuel cycles of disadvantage and pov-
erty. Not only are these groups already exposed

to a variety of other socially-determined health

 

NUMBER OF SHUT-OFFS IN
DETROIT 2014-17

Year of Shut-Offs

2014 30,065

2015 23,000

2016 27,552

2017 17,689

Source: 


ter-shutoffs-declineH08341678/ Detroit news, Bridge
Magazine, Detroit News

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 54

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

WATER AS A HUMAN RIGHT

 

Global water crises have called attention to the need to affirm the
'human right to water. The Human Right to Water and Sanitation

(H RWS) was recognized by the United Nations General Assembly in
2010.1

While foundational human rights documents do not make explicit ref-
erence to water, the right to water is implicated given water's central-
ity to human existence and thriving. The 1966 International Covenant
on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights advocates for ?the right of
everyone to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family,
including adequate food, clothing and housing, and to the continuous
improvement of living conditionsf'2

Similarly, the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights notes that
?Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health
and well-being of himself and his family, including food, clothing,
housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right
to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widow-
hood, old age, or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his
control."3

The fulfillment of both of those rights requires access to clean and
affordable water.

In 2002, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural stipulated
that water accessibility has four dimensions:4

Physical accessibility, meaning that water resources are in safe physi-
cal reach

Economic accessibility, requiring that water is affordable for all

Non-discriminatory accessibility, stipulating that water be available for
the most vulnerable groups of the population

Information accessibility, noting the right to seek and receive informa-
tion about water issues.

In Detroit, water is not affordable, particularly for the city?s most
vulnerable residents. Moreover, victims of shutoffs were often not
provided with notices and information regarding their water bills and
water was shutoff unexpectedly. Mass water shutoffs in Detroit offer a
clear illustration of the violation of the human right to water.

Seurces:

1 United Nations General Assembly Resolution 64/292, The Human Right to Water and Sanita-

liOn, Rev.1. adopted July 28, 2010, 


2 UN General Assembly. International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 16 Decem-
ber 1966. United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 993:3, 
Pages/CESCR.aspx.

3 UN General Assembly, Universal Declaralion of Human Rights, 10 December 1948, 217 A 


Resolution 64/292: The
Human Right to Water
and Sanitation

The General 

1. Recognizes the right
to safe and clean drink-
ing water and sanitation
as a human right that

is essential for the full
enjoyment of life and all
human rights;

2. Calls upon States and
international organiza-
tions to provide financial
resources, capaci-
ty-building and technolo-
gy transfer, through inter-
national assistance and
cooperation, in particular
to developing countries,
in order to scale up
efforts to provrde safe,
clean, accessible and
allordable drinking water
and sanitation for all;

3. Welcomes the
decision by the Human
Rights Council to re-
quest that the indepen-
dent expert on human
rights obligations related
to access to safe drink-
ing water and sanitation
submit an annual report
to the General Assem-

bly.

4 UN Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights. "General Comment No. 15: The Right to Water (Arts. 11 and 12 of the Cov-
enant), Adopted at the Twenty-Ninth Session of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1 January 20,

2008, 

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 65

AREAS FOR FURTHER INQUIRY:
PUBLIC HEALTH CONSEQUENCES OF WATER ACCESS

There is a litany of well-established links between individual health outcomes and reliable access to clean water
and adequate sanitation. There are similarly established links between water and sanitation access and public
health outcomes. Situating Detroit within this long-standing line of research, it is wise to study public and indi-
vidual heath has been effected by the number of water shutoffs in the city of Detroit.

TK: Bits about Community Research Collective, mapping the water crisis

Understanding the specific effects in Detroit will enable the best targeted strategies to address effects that
exist in Detroit. The spirit of such a study is not to simply reveal problematic outcomes, but far more importantly
to direct attention to systemic problems that need attention.

This is another opportunity for Detroit to be a national leader in extending study of water access in the domestic
context. Many studies have been done internationally, but more research needs to develop unique problems
that are presented within the domestic context.

As a matter of public circulation and understanding of this type of study it is important to understand standards
of epidemiological investigation.

The utility of this type of study is any expectation to prove causation. Causation in epidemiological studies is
not obvious. Probabilistic standards of causation are appropriate for epidemiological studies, not necessity-suf-
ficiency standards. studies can never prove causation; that is, it cannot prove that a specific
risk factor actually causes the disease being studied. Epidemiological evidence can only show that this risk
factor is associated (correlated) with a higher incidence of disease in the population exposed to that risk factor.
The higher the correlation the more certain the association, but it cannot prove the causation. 

Studies revealing association, or correlation, are meaningful and reveal new important insights.

Spatial analysis presents an important component of research in general, including the field of epidemiolo-
gy. There are also limitations inherent in epidemiological study due to privacy standards of personal medical
records. Studies that use individual patient data are routinely, and necessarily, aggregated to census tract level

or zip code.

risks, but they also often have limited access to
health care. These social determinates of health-
i.e. increased exposure to environmental risk and
limited access to health care resources? combine
to perpetuate these disparate outcomes.131 The
deleterious effects of water scarcity and lack of
health care resources have cascading effects that
effect entire neighborhoods, as diseases are com-
municable; the combined effects of these risks
mean that entire communities are further deprived
of opportunities to flourish.

In the case of Detroit, the abstract of the Henry
Ford Hospital Global Health Study provides us
with a preview of such a strong association be-
tween social vulnerability and water?associated
illnesses.132 The study, conducted by researchers
from the Henry Ford Health System?s Global
Health Initiative and Division of infectious Diseas-
es, examined 37,441 cases of water-borne illness-
es between January 2015 and February 2016 in
Detroit. Researchers compared that data with a

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

list of addresses where water had been shutoffs,
finding a significant connection between water-re-
lated illnesses and DWSD shutoffs. Currently and
controversially, only the abstract of the study is
released. Preliminary findings indicate that patients
with water related illness were 1.48 times more
likely to live on a block that has experienced water
shutoffs.133

Additionally, mental health issues are also associ-
ated with lacking water, as water deprivation can
exacerbate any existing mental health problems. 13?
For example, irregular bathing and sanitation can
negatively affect a sense of self-worth and the abil-
ity to perform at work or school.135 Not to mention
the accompanying stress of obtaining water on an
emergency basis and worrying about how to pay
to have service restored.

The compound effects of water shutoffs in Detroit,
both in terms of clinical and non-clinical outcomes,
actively contributes to Detroiter's ?social vulnera-
bility.? As defined by the CDC, social vulnerability

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water 8. Sewer District

 

?Through daily interaction with
families forced to manage
their lives without running
water, We the People of Detroit
gained insight into the ways
deprivation of water disrupts
essential family functions and
rituals, heightens vulnerability
to disease, especially among
the children, and causes

deep emotional trauma,

some of which concerns the
inability to provide security

to one?s children, as well as
the difficulty of preserving
one's standards of household
organization and self care.?

We the People Community Research
Collective, Mapping the Water Crisis:

is the way in which exposure to certain social
factors compromises people?s immunity?? These
factors include poverty, crowded or unsafe hous-
ing, housing insecurity, and lack of transportation,
among others. The situation in Detroit speakers
to the way in which water inequity and insecurity
contributes to people?s social vulnerability, as it
leads to compromised physical and mental health
while also worsening existing problems faced by
sick and immune-compromised.

The Social Costs of Shutoffs

The costs of shutoffs are not limited to effects on
the body. Shutoffs also have adverse social costs
for individuals, families, and entire neighborhoods.
Water shutoffs can contribute to foreclosure and
blight, splitting up families, and even worsen water
quality for entire neighborhoods, including homes
where water service is uninterrupted. In addition,
shutoffs can create feelings of shame and enforce
a culture of silence that is only worsened by the
practice of painting arrows in front of houses
where water has been disconnected.

We the People of Detroit Community Research
Collective has done and continues to do important
research into the social and health costs of water
issues in Detroit. Their report, Mapping the Water
Crisis: The Dismantling of African American Neigh-
borhoods in Detroit, Volume (2016), visually rep-
resents data relating to emergency management,
the history of DWSD and GLWA, home values

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

and foreclosures, and the relationship between all
these issues and shutoffs.137 The Community Re-
search Collective has been an integral resource in
the making of this report.

Mapping the Water Crisis points to the signifi-
cant correlation between high unpaid water and
sewerage bills and high instances of property tax

foreclosures.?3? This is in part due to DWSD allow-

ing delinquent water bills to also attach as liens to
properties in the same way unpaid property taxes
are attached as a lien on a property. The 2014
Detroit Blight Removal Tax Plan codified this rela-
tionship, stating that homes with water lines that
have been disconnected, removed, or damaged
are subject to demolition.139 If the bill amounts go
unpaid 0r underpaid for three years, the property
is eligible for foreclosure. While the water bills may
not be the only or primary cause for foreclosure,
they can shorten the timeline to foreclosure.

High rates of foreclosure compound the existing
social problem surrounding urban blight in Detroit.
Importantly, high water utility bills are affecting
communities already heavily hit by the city's fore-
closure crisis. We know that during the national
foreclosure crisis of 2007, Detroit was especially
impacted; thus the areas where the existing rate
structure causes higher bills are already suffering
from other economic harms.

It is important to remark here that many home
mortgage loans that set households up for fore-
closure were not due to a household?s failure to
balance their Checkbooks. Rather, in Detroit es-
pecially, Black African American households were
marketed subprime loans with unnecessary risks
at a right higher than their White counterparts?
regardless of where they lived and regardless of
financial assets.?0

 

Image from the film I Do My Dying. Coutesy of Kate Levy,
available online at 

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

67

root shock and displacement are perpetuated by
draconian shutoff policies.

Water shutoffs also actively destabilize families. In
an attempt to protect the safety of children, Child
Protective Services (CPS) also considers a home
without running water to be unfit for housing.144
Extended water shutoffs put children at risk of
being removed from their homes. Shutoffs thus
threatens family cohesion, which is associated
with an incredible number of positive outcomes.
These include economic and physical well-being,
long-term mental and physical health, interaction
with the criminal justice system, and income and
education.145

The threat of a child being removed from the care
of their parents reinforces the culture of silence
around shutoffs?if a child mentions that they do
not have water at home, the teacher is required
to report it. Still, schools across Detroit have re-
sponded by providing extra supports for children
who have had their water disconnected. At the
height of the shutoff crisis, one school opted to
open at five in the morning to allow children to
wash their clothes and shower before school.??5

In addition to delving further into these social
costs, We the People of Detroit Community Re-
search Collective is currently conducting original
research into the effect of water shutoffs on water
quality in neighboring homes. Dr. Jade Mitchell and
Dr. Jennifer Carrera have partnered at Michigan
State University to conduct water experiments in
neighborhoods in Detroit to test the water age and
quality in homes where water has been shutoff

or unused for an extended period of time. This
experiment is a model for research that empowers
and directly involves community members. A Com-
munity Advisory Board not only advised on the
type and scope of water research, they also own
the information (including residents? names and
addresses) collected by community members who
were trained as field workers. Dr. Mitchell's team
tests water samples, but the samples are collect-
ed and owned by the community.

While results are still preliminary, once more con-
clusive evidence is gathered, the results of the

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

experiment will be shared with the community so
that they can decide on further action.

Conclusion

Water shutoffs have a variety of negative effects
on individuals, families,_and communities? from
home foreclosure to family break-up to high-

er instances of water-related illnesses. The
wide-reaching negative effects of shut-offs under-
scores the importance of protecting the human
right to water, and prohibiting draconian collection
practices that result in acute threats to human
health and well-being. Water shutoffs also actively
perpetuate disparate outcomes along race and
class lines.

This is in part due to the way in which negative
consequences associated with water scarcity
contribute to high instance of daily stress, the
effects of which are borne by low-income commu-
nities and communities of color. The cumulative
health effects of daily stresses is often discussed
in terms of "toxic stress? or ?toxic inequality," refer-
ring to the biophysical effects of cumulative stress
in response to adversity, which is disproportion-
ately experienced by marginalized groups. Social
marginalization can increase people's ?allostatic
load," or the wear and tear on the body resulting
from prolonged exposure to chronic stress. Within
the literature on toxic stress, toxic inequality, and
allostatic load, repeated patters of racial differenc-
es exist. In fact, measures of increased allostatic
load are thought to explain, in part, the persistent
disparities of racialized health outcomes and

in particular, the racial disparities in low infant
birthrate and infant mortality?disparities that are
shown to exist despite level of education, income,
or employment.147

Water shutoffs produce have of negative conse-
quences for the well-being of communities and
public health? a problem on worsened by the
multidimensional and persistent stress associated
with water scarcity. All of these harms are dispro-
portionately endured by low-income people and
people of color.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

THREATENING COMMUNITY SPACES:
WATER INEQUITY AND DETROIT CHURCHES

 

really do think this is a prelude to other Every attack on the church is an attack on the black communi-

Pastor Alan Evans of The Open Door Church of God in Christ in Detroit

?We don't mind paying our fair [but] you\re putting us out of This is redlining on steroids"?
Reverend James Michael Curenton of United Church of Christ

Churches are cornerstones of Detroit communities, particularly of communities of color, and also the second-larg-
est property owners in Detroit. Importantly, they are uniquely affected by water inequity.

More specifically, as discussed in Section II of this report, the current water distribution situation requires that
customers pay unmetered drainage fees based on the quantity of impervious surfaces- such a parking lots and
roofs- on their properties. As churches often have large quantities of impervious surfaces?from the size of the
church itself, parking lots large enough to accommodate whole congregations, satellite community buildings, and
even impervious surfaces on vacant properties churches have acquired?they are incredibly burdened by unmet-

ered drainage fees.

Currently, DWSD-R customers are charged $750 per square acre of impervious surface. Note that drainage fees
are costs associated with managing combined sewage overflows, or overflows of sewage and other potentially
hazardous materials when the combined sewage system is overburdened. Overflow management is a of
Detroit?s antiquated infrastructure. As described in Sections I and ll, Detroit bears the burden of this antiquated

system because of historicI Systemic inequities.

Currently, the existence and financial well-being of 400 Detroit churches is endangered due to their inability to

afford these charges.

In the past four years alone, Second Ebenezer Church, with a 40-year history and hundreds of congregants, has
already seen their bill 90 from $1,900 per month to $8,000, and they are bracing for further hikes.

The Cathedral of St. Anthony's bill rose from $165 to $1,200 per month. The burden drainage fees put
on churches threaten communities' religious and secular support networks. In addition to buying up vacant lots in
their communities, churches-as well as mosques, synagogues, and other places of worship?provide affordable
housing, mentoring, scholarship awards, health support, voting support, programs for youth, older adults, and
women, as well as crucial advocacy. Even if churches are able to afford the drainage fees, they still pose econom-
ic burdens, thus threatening churches' capacity to provide these key community services.

Church leaders and congregants are vocal advocates in the fight for water equity. They and their congregants
offer a wealth of knowledge about the needs and capacities of the neighborhoods they serve. Their guidance,
wisdom, and knowledge are essential in establishing a sustainable Detroit.

Foreclosures due to unpaid water bills in Detroit
are not only alarming because of immense threats
demolition poses for families and community, but
also given the history of blight removal practices in
the city decades ago, under the rhetoric of ?urban
renewal." In Detroit and elsewhere, blight remov-
aI-centered development strategies demolished
incredible numbers of affordable housing units?far
more units that were built under the program.141
These demolitions intensified exiting problems with
housing quality and neighborhood opportunity. The
changes enacted under these blight removal proj-
ects also deepened segregation and destroyed
existing neighborhoods where strong social ties
and connections existed.142

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

Studies surrounding the effects of blight removal
urban renewal strategies in the 1940-50s have
revealed the significant connections between dis-
placement and diminished health and well-being,
often associated with a phenomenon called ?root
shock." Even when residents were able to move to
nicer neighborhoods, they experienced a loss of
belonging and a loss of appreciating and benefit-
ing from deep social ties of the place they called
home.?3 Root shock refers to the negative psy-
chosocial impacts of displacement, a metaphor to
the negative effects when plants is removed and
transplanted elsewhere. This work has focused on
displaced community residents moved in urban
renewal projects in Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, PA
and Roanoke, \?rginia. Problems associated with

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 59

WATER ACTIVISM IN DETROIT

 

Detroit?s robust nonprofit and grassroots infrastructure has mobilized in a variety of ways to fight water inequity in
Detroit. In 2005, as challenges to accessing clean and affordable water in Detroit became increasingly apparent,
the Michigan Welfare Rights Organization (MWROI-vwhich has long advocated for the rights of welfare assisted
and low-income people?partnered with Michigan Legal Services and DWSD to design an income-based water
affordability plan (WAP). The plan, written by affordable utilities expert Roger Colton was approved by the city
council, but never implemented by DWSD.

In response to continued water shutoffs, the People?s Water Board (PWB) was founded in 2008.The Water
Board is comprised of a coalition of organizations that hold that water is a human right and should be accessible
and affordable for all. Founding members of the Board included a number of organizations committed to environ-
mental and social equity: MWRO, East Michigan Environmental Action Council, the People's Water Board, Sierra
Club, Michigan Emergency Committee Against War Injustice, Rosa Parks Institute, Detroit Black Community
Food Security Network, Detroit Green, and American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Lo-
cal 207. In the years leading up to the bankruptcy, the Water Board and other water advocacy organizations drew
local and national attention to water access issues through outreach, forums, and public actions.

While Detroit was under emergency management, a variety of other activists became key allies in the water strug-
gle. Notable are Detroiters Resisting Emergency Management (D-REM) and The People's Platform.

As shutoffs reached an all-time high in the summer of 2014, Detroit's nonprofit and grassroots infrastructure?
specifically PWB, We the People of Detroit, and the Detroit Water Brigade? mobilized to provide immediate,
on-the-ground assistance to shutoff victims by starting water hotlines and delivering water. The Detroit Water
Brigade, for example, has: established community distribution hubs for bottled water, pulling together volunteers,
resources, and a compassionate strategy. Each hub is located in each of Detroit's seven districts, beyond its
Highland Park headquarters; created the Water Affordability Fund to supplement DWSD assistance programs;
conducted door-to-door information campaigns; constructed rainwater collection systems; collected cold weath-
er gear to help those denied access to water (and therefore, heat circulation).

In 2014 the People's Water Board filed a complaint with the UN Human Rights Counsel, which resulted in two
UN special rapporteurs visiting Detroit. Meanwhile, Kate Levy? an activist and independent filmmaker? began
work on Detroit Minds Dying, an in-progress documentary about access to affordable water in Detroit. Several
of the images in this report are from that film, and we are indebted to Levy and other actors which made the film
possible.

Public actions amidst widespread shutoffs took the form of large public marches and even actively blocking Ho-
mich shutoff trucks? Homrich was the private company contracted to carry out 70,000 shutoffs over a two-year
period. Two actions of this sort took place over the summer of 2014, leading in the arrest of nine activists.

Meanwhile, Moratorium Now began weekly demonstrations at the DWSD headquarters.

Also, in response to shutoffs in the summer of 2014, Detroit civil rights organizations and citizens effected by the
shutoffs filed a law suit against the city, on the grounds they did DWSD did not provide adequate shutoff notices
and shutoff water to the most vulnerable Detroiters, while also not shutting off water to commercial delinquent
accounts. The case, Lyda et.al v. City of Detroit, advocated for a moratorium on shutoffs and the implementation
of a water affordability plan.

In recent years, resistance continues in myriad forms. We the People?s Community Research Collective has
completed crucial research on the effects of austerity and water inequity of on low-income communities of color
in Detroit, recently publishing a report entitled ?Mapping the Water Crisis." The Collective's work has been, and
continue to be, fundamental to investigative efforts surrounding water inequity in Detroit,.and correspondingly,
central to the production of this report.

There are countless other allies who played key roles as activists responding to the water crisis. For example, An-
ishinawbe Women and Men, representing indigenous peoples of the region, have untaken multiple annual Mother
Earth Walks, raising awareness for threats to the public trust of water. Another organization, the Detroit Light
Brigade has staged "letters in light" and projected messages of resistance on buildings during public actions.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 

 

 

 

SECTION IV

 

Detroiters Subsidize
Regional Suburban
Growth 1 9405-1 9705 71

Regulatory Oversight and
Outside Management
of DWSD 1977-2013 74

Predatory Lending.

The 2008 Financial

Crisis, and Water

Access in Detroit 75

Municipal Bankruptcy
and Emergency
Management 77

Conclusion 78

THE LONG HISTORY OF

WATER 8:

SEWERAGE DISTRICT

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District

71

 

The Long History of Detroit?s
Water and Sewerage District

THE WATER CRISIS IN Southeast Michigan?like
cities across the US?unfolds on a landscape cre-
ated by over a century of the creation and devel-
opment of cities and neighborhoods and regions.
Decision-makers and policy that set the terms of
this growth were designed according to racial
prejudices and bias?and in places like Detroit,
cities were even established during the period of
chattel slavery, colonization of native land to ex-
pand the size of settler's territory?not to mention
more recent decades that were informed by the
Jim Crow system and profound economic change.
It is not at all controversial to point out ways in
which current cities and regions have inherited
systems and institutions with basic design flaws
and that addressing these flaws is a difficult and
ongoing project. In the context of the regional
DWSD system racialized systems are very literally
concrete and easily intelligible. lnheriting systems
from the country's racially divided history is not
abstract.

Detroit?s challenges?such as deindustrialization,
white flight, and stark racial divisions?are not
unique to the Southeast Michigan metropolitan
region. Instead, they reflect familiar consequences
of unfair and inadequate public investment. In the
case of drinking and waste water infrastructure,
decreasing revenues and unsustainable debt bur-
dens hinder adequate affordable pricing structures
and create pockets of water poverty across the
country. Meanwhile, service providers are left to
manage aging infrastructure that is not suited to
withstand the impending consequences of global
climate change.

The distribution of resources follows infrastruc-
ture design?especially in the case of drinking and
wastewater system. Decisions at the national,
state, and community level combine with and influ-
ence individual decisions people make every day
about where to live and work. While these deci-
sions may not be explicitly motivated by racism
and other prejudices, they result in the unequal
allocation of resources and opportunities along

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

race and class lines. Detroit?s water and sewerage
infrastructure is put to the service of the universal
goal and mission?to provide users with access to
high quality wastewater service, safe and healthy
drinking water, and do its part to ensure the quality
of surface waters and its public health benefits.

There are contested narratives about the cause of
Detroit?s fiscal problems?and the dominant narra-
tive reflects the way many cities? fiscal challenges
are discussed in popular media. Struggling cities
are framed as being unique or exceptional?the
drivers of the problem are unique and limited to
that specific location. Detroit is discussed as a
?casualty" of the erosion of the US manufacturing
economy and has been uniquely impacted be-
cause of the city?s dependence on that industry.
Cities are also described as struggling because
local leaders and politicians were incompetent or
corrupt?again suggesting that a specific city is
experiencing unique harms. These factors are not
unrelated to the fiscal challenges of some places.
However, these are not at all the systemic and
structural roots of fiscal distress. Such narratives
can create popular support to support policies
that simply remove decision making from cities
and place it in the hands of supposedly more re-
liable decision makers. Detroit's emergency man-
agement and bankruptcy process offers a clear
example of this suppression of local democratic
control and the generation of popular support and
justification provided through shallow and inaccu-
rate analysis.

Detroiters Subsidize Regional
Suburban Growth 19405-19705

Suburban development and urban infrastructure
are closely tied. Development does not occur
where water and sewerage services are unavail-
able, so that the ability to connect to Detroit?s
existing water and sewerage plants allowed the
suburbs to form. Meanwhile, suburban develop-
ment sapped population and resources from the
city of Detroit.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 72

In the 19505, when the population began to shift
from urban to suburban areas, the role of DWSD
in subsidizing suburban growth was hotly contest-
ed. In 1954, L.H. Lenhardt?General Manager of
the system since 1936?expressed concern about
further expanding the water system and urged
suburbs to develop their own infrastructure.14a

His successor, Gerald J. Remus, director between
1955 and 1973, took the opposite stance and
immediately reversed Lenhardt's suggested poli-
cies. The water system underwent a rapid expan-
sion during Remus's directorship and took on a
great amount of debt to do 30.149 In 1954, the city
served 44 suburban wholesale customers. During
Remus?s eighteen years as director, 51 additional
suburban municipalities were added, bringing the
total to 96 in 1973.150

During this period of suburban expansion, it be-
came apparent that the regional growth of the
water system was a political issue that went far
beyond civil engineering and was deeply embed-
ded in racially inequitable deveIOpment agendas.
Remus was appointed to manage the water and
sewerage system by Mayor Albert Cobo, whose

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

 

Image from the film I Do My Dying. Coutesy of Kate Levy,
available online at 

rhetoric and policies revealed an obvious prefer-
ence for the interests of the wealthy and white.151
While Cobo was overseeing large-scale urban
renewal initiatives, Remus was funding water infra-
structure. These plans had a lasting impact on the
racial landscape of today?s Detroit and continue
to influence the demographics of the city and sub-
urbs.

Cobo?s urban renewal projects were largely fo-
cused on blight removal and left Black residents in
a greater housing crisis than the one the renewal
ostensibly solved. This period of blight-removal-fo-
cused urban planning is often marked by the 1949
Housing Act, but even before the creation of this
act, some cities, including Detroit, were already
practicing ?slum clearance.? One example of this
practice in Detroit is the Gratiot housing project,

a redevelopment project that left residents living

in conditions as poor as in their previous neigh-
borhoods. In cities across the country, far greater
numbers of affordable housing units were removed
than rebuilt.152

Urban renewal and blight removal policies evolved
into redlined maps, investment guidelines that cod-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

- I





 



ified racially inequitable development on paper and
in practice. Redlining?which gets its name from
the color of ink used to markup maps into ?good"
and ?hazardous" investments-refers to the prac-
tice of withholding mortgage lending from specific
urban neighborhoods, and particularly from neigh-
borhoods with high proportions of immigrants and
people of color.153 Lender drew these boundaries
using highly subjective and prejudiced criteria but
they have made a lasting impact on the racial dis-
tribution of cities across the United States.

In 1939, a redlined map of Detroit indicates

that 28 percent of the city was a ?hazardous?
investment, while 51 percent was ?definitely de-
clining.??54 Lenders only gave mortgage loans for
homebuyers seeking to live in one-fifth of the city?s
neighborhoods. In other words, banks decided
only one-fifth of the city's land was worthy of in-
vestment. By this time, any new water infrastruc-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.REDLINING MAP
- OF DETROIT

Source: Robert K. Nelson, LaDale WinlingI Richard
Marciano, Nathan Connolly, et al., ?Mapping
Inequality,? American Panorama, ed. Robert K.
Nelson and Edward L. Ayers, accessed March

19, 201 B, 





 

 

ture funded by DWSD was outside the city. The
banks considered Detroit a bad investment, and
the city's water department followed suit.

By the late 19403 and with funding support from
the federal government, the construction of the
Davidson and Edsel Ford Expressways was under-
way. In Detroit, as in many other cities, express-
ways fragmented local neighborhoods in the city
and created enclave communities where residents
were separated by race. At the same time, high-
ways enabled affluent white people to travel to
their newly built homes in the suburbs. Water and
sewerage systems grew to match these patterns
of growth?creating systemic infrastructural bar-
riers which underwrite the history of segregation
and disparate investment in Detroit.

City planners were not necessarily motivated by
personal animus toward the city's Black residents,

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 74

but their actions and policies existed within a
larger system that rested on structural inequality.
For example, some White business owners saw
Black neighborhoods as valuable sites for future
development and wanted Detroit's Black residents
to leave those areas?a goal that was actualized
through coded' blight removal policies that re-
moved Black residents from these areas to the
benefit of select business owners' financial gain.
These strategies were enacted by political leaders
and planners operating under the pretext of a New
Deal systemI in which benefits ostensibly flowed
to everyone, but in practice flowed towards White
populations.

Jobs moved to the suburbs, along with the mo-
bile white population. Economic barriers, along
with more pointed exclusion in hiring and housing
practices, prevented much of the Black population
from leaving the urban center. In Detroit, popula-
tion numbers plummeted, thejob market shrank,
and poverty and segregation grew.

Every suburban municipality in Detroit's metropol-
itan region owes its existence and strength to the
fonNard-thinking effort of the city of Detroit. Detroit
used its credit and resources (both financial and
human) to bet on and support the future growth

of the entire region. Water and sewerage infra-
structure were central to this growth. Detroit has
severely neglected long-overdue upgrades to its
water and sewerage system. While Detroit?s sys-
tem has languished, infrastructure was improved in
the suburbs. The region's storm and sanitary sys-
tem was engineered, built, and paid for by DWSD.
It did so in preference to the suburbs and in rec-
ognition of the growth potential in the region?and
it did so at the expense of essential upgrades to
the outdated infrastructure system within the city
of Detroit.

As you approach any city in the United States

by air, you can tell exactly where the water and
sewerage infrastructure ends. At that endpoint,
suburban development ceases. As you approach
a city by car, all development you see occurred
only after the infrastructure development of water
and sewerage. When a city creates its water sys-
tem, it is sowing the seeds for all future growth.
When a city allows infrastructure to crumble,
communities are gutted.

Regulatory Oversight and
Outside Management of DWSD
1977-2013

Economic decline in Detroit is often portrayed as
an isolated event brought on by a lack of com-
petent local management?an assessment that
ignores the structural and historical factors that
pose comparable challenges to local governments

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

across the country.

In 1977, the EPA initiated a suit against DWSD
because its wastewater treatment plant's effluent
discharge exceeded the amount permitted by its
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
permit (N NPDES permitting regulations
were implemented in 1972 under the Clean Water
Act.156 Over the course of the 37-year EPA suit,
DWSD management submitted multiple strategic
plans aimed at bringing the DWSD system up to
the standards of federal regulations created in the
19705

Detroit was not alone in finding itself falling short
of these federal regulations.

A consistent problem that left DWSD and other
utility providers under court jurisdiction was the
long-term feasibility of plans to resolve water qual-
ity issues, and in particular, the availability of suffi-
cient financial resources to enact corrective plans.
The original complaint that started the 37-year
EPA suit was that DWSD's wastewater treatment
plan violated the Clean Water Act.

In the absence of resources for massive public
investment in infrastructure?significantly in terms
of human resources?Detroit failed to meet the
requirements, and the court?s authority was
protracted. The structural flaw of beneficial envi-
ronmental legislation in the 1970s, including the
Clean Water Act, was inadequate federal invest-
ment to support local utilities? efforts to meet new
standards.

Ultimately, this created the need for the system to
take out debt and create pricing structures pred-
icated on cost-recovery, not affordability, models.
Thus, during that period, the utility experienced
increasing financial stress as risky debts were
taken on in attempts to bring DWSD system up to
federal standards and to make necessary updates
to the system in general.

US District Court Judge John Feikens oversaw
DWSD for over thirty years during the EPA trial.157
During Feikens? oversight, he signed an agree-
ment requiring Detroit to pay for 83 percent of
combined sewerage improvements outside of
Detroit, leaving the suburban wholesale customers
responsible for only 17 percent of services they
received.?55 This 83/17 split? also known as the
1999 Rate Settlement Agreements? applied spe-
cifically to ?Non-Detroit Only" and "Non-Common
to All" facilities, and there is little technical data

to support this disproportional agreement.?59 This
plan was approved and subsequently led to hugely
inflated sewerage costs for Detroit customers.

As described in the Section ll of this report, the
83/17 split still applies to many costs today.

While overseeing the water and sewerage depart-
ment, Judge Feikens also appointed Victor Merca-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District

TAB LE 2

DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE IN DETROIT: 1910-2010

 

Year Total Population Percent Black
1910 465,766 1.2
1 920 993,675 4.1
1930 1,568,662 7.7
1940 1,623,452 9.2
1 950 1,849,568 1 6.2
1 960 1,670,144 28.9
1 970 1,511,482 44.5
1 980 1,203,339 63.1
1 990 1,027,974 75.7
2000 951,270 81.6
2010 713,777 82.7

Data for 191010 1970 from Sugrue, Thomas J. (1996, 2014) The Origins of the Urban Crisis,
Princeton University Press: Princeton. NJ. Data from 1980-2016 taken from US Census Bureau.

do as director of DWSD. Mercado had formerly
worked for private water companies Thames North
America and United Water and was personally
involved in the privatization of several municipal
water systems. During Mercado?s tenure, many
union jobs were outsourced to private contractors
and maintenance and repair staff was cut
by 13 percent.?50 In 2014, Mercado was convicted
of colluding with the mayor to fix $72 million worth
of fraudulent DWSD contracts.161 The EPA case
was finally closed in 2013, and DSWD would
have been returned to the City had emergency
manager Kevyn Orr not taken over two days prior.

Predatory Lending, The 2008
Financial Crisis, and Water
Access in Detroit

During the final years of federal oversight of
DWSD, substantial financial deregulation at the
federal level and austerity financing in local and
state governments enabled banks to aggressively
market predatory lending deals?in the form of
adjustable-rate subprime mortgages?to working
class Detroiters. The destruction this caused in
economically burdened neighborhoods is well-
known and has played out in communities across
the United States. Detroit had one of the highest

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

rates of subprime lending and foreclosures in the
country: since 2005, at least 139,699 homes?
or one in three homes in Detroit?have been
foreclosed due to mortgage defaults or unpaid
taxes.162 A 2015 Detroit News investigation re-
vealed that 56 percent of homes foreclosed be-
cause of mortgage defaults are now ?blighted.?163

The less well-known story is that municipal entities,
and DWSD in particular, were subject to the same
predatory lending tactics that impacted individuals.
In 2005, the City of Detroit entered into a specula-
tive $1.4 billion-dollar deal with UBS AG and Mer-
rill Capital Services that included an interest
rate swaps. ?54 Interest rate swaps are structured
to offset higher costs of borrowing that issuers
with lower credit ratings may face with traditional
bonds. These interest rates swaps are risky?and
that risk was realized by many cities, including De-
troit. lf certain terms in the bond agreements are
met, the bank can recall the bonds and cities are
left to face exceptional costs. This is exactly what
happened to many such issuers when the financial
crisis hit and the markets crashed, DWSD was left
with $537 million in fees to terminate the swaps
deal."35 DWSD had to borrow in order to pay

off those swap termination fees and "refinance"
debts. This further raised the utility debts?bor-
rowing that did not go to pay for its services or its

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 76

infrastructure. By 2012, 40 percent reve-
nue customer's payments) was going towards
debt service.166 Detroit offers a clear example

of how risk-laden products marketed by financial
firms can send a city and its residents into crisis
and how such crises disproportionately burden
financially stressed local governments. 

Meanwhile, in 2012, while DWSD was still under
federal oversight, the board of water commis-
sioners agreed to a no-bid five-year, $48 million
contract with private consulting firm EMA, Inc."57
The contract, intended to improve DWSD's
compliance with federal standards and increase
efficiency, would eliminate over 80 percent of
DWSD jobs and cut pay for workers who con-
tinued at DWSD.168 The contract represented a

clear violation of union contracts with Local 207

of the American Federation of State, County, and
Municipal Employee (AFSCM E). This violation was
only possible because of the broad discretionary
powers of emergency management.

In response, DWSD workers went on strike, vio-
lating a state law that prohibits strike by municipal 
employees.169 Cox issued an order prohibiting the
strike, but the demonstrations continued. AFSC-
ME Local 207 walked out of the DWSD plant:

an expression that power needed to shift toward
employees and away from traditional decision
makers in the city government. The strike ended
after five days, and thirty-five workers were fired
and eventually reinstated. As a result, Cox agreed
to hold a hearing to discuss the new contract, but

RACE AND EMERGENCY MANGAGEMENT IN MICHIGAN

 

Race and Municipal Emergency

Management in Michigan

 

 

We the People of Detroit Communlty Research Collective

From We The People Of Detroit Community Research Collective, "mapping the water crisis: the dismantling of african-american neighborhoods in delroit: volume one,"
available to order online at 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 77

little substantive change was realized.

In situations of shortages of public revenue,
public functions are often devolved to private
agencies under the pretense of cost-saving
measures. As low-income people, women, and
communities of color are often more dependent
on public employment, municipal resources and
social services, cutting municipal services has a
disproportionate impact on them, thus perpetuat-
ing inequitable outcomes.

In situations of shortages of public revenue, public
functions are often devolved to private agencies
under the pretense of cost-saving measures. As
low-income people, women, and communities of
color are often more dependent on public employ-
ment, municipal resources and social services,
cutting municipal services has a disproportionate
impact on them, thus perpetuating inequitable
outcomes. As the Detroit's revenue crisis deep-
ened, water rates and shut off numbers increased.
Local water activists organized and responded.
The experience of these residents and organizers
informed much of this report in discussion and
using research they have conducted.

Municipal Bankruptcy and
Emergency Management

After decades of deindustrialization, depopulation,
and systemic divestment, Detroit?s annual revenue
became inadequate to meet its annual expendi-
tures. In 2013, after declaring the city in a state of
?financial emergency," Michigan's then governor
Rick Snyder appointed Kevyn Orr as Detroit's
Emergency Manager.

Orr is a lawyer who left his post at the international
corporate law firm Jones Day to assume his role
as the city's emergency manager. Subsequently,
Jones Day became the legal firm representing the
city. 17? After Detroit, Orr went on to serve as an
aid to Atlantic City?s emergency manager before
returning to Jones Day.

Emergency management has roots in the 1986
appointment of a receiver for the city of Ecorse,
Michigan.171 In 1988, Public Act 101 created an
?emergency financial manager? for the specific
case of Hamtramck.172 In 1990, Public Act 72
was passed, which enabled the appointment of

an Emergency Financial Manager for any local
government or governmental unit, including public
schools.173 And in 201 1, Public Act 4 renamed the
position to Emergency Manager and expanded the
authority of the appointed position.174

The concept of an appointed emergency manager
or emergency financial manager was challenged

in court by Sugar Law Center. Ultimately, Public
Act 4 was repealed by voters in the 2012 general

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mose5.mi

election. However, Michigan state government
seemed insistent on the expansion of authority
enabled by Public Act 4, and in 2012, the state
legislature passed Public Act 436, reinstalling the
ability to appoint an Emergency Manager.?5

In Detroit, not only was an emergency manager
appointed as per Public Act 436, but the state
legislature passed a separate law that formed a
financial review commission that assumes ultimate
authority over the city?s finances upon exiting bank-
ruptcy; the city is still subjected to state oversight
three years after exiting bankruptcy, and after three
consecutive balanced budgets, the financial review
commission will vote to waive its authority.176

Financial managers, which temporarily supplant
local elected officials and financial officers, have
broad control over municipal Operations, including
the abilities to strip elected officials of their power,
cut municipal workers? pay, restructure depart-
ments, outsource service city services, and even
alter collective bargaining contracts.?7 Given
these extensive powers, critics of these practices
have complained that emergency management is
at odds with local democratic representation.

Under Emergency Management in Detroit, citizens
felt as though the power of elected city officials?
and correspondingly, the power of Detroit citi-
zens-was effectively disenfranchised and subject-
ed to unelected governance. In recent years, the
majority of Michigan's Black population lived under
Emergency Management. Correspondingly, critics
have complained that emergency management has
been used a vehicle for suppressing the democrat-
ic voices of people of color. A report produced by
We the People of Detroit?s Community Research
Collective described,

?Since 2009, Michigan's Governor has
appointed an emergency manager to
govern nine Michigan cities (Allen Park,
Benton Harbor, Escorse, Flint, Ham-
tramck, Lincoln Park, Pontiac, Detroit).
Six of the cities account for 49.8% of the
state?s African American population; in
Michigan, then, emergency management
has served to politically disenfranchise
residents in African-American majority
cities." We the People of Detroit Com-
munity Research Collective, Mapping the
Water Crisis

During the city's financial emergency period, Orr
was unable to reach a consensus with Detroit's
creditors, unions, and pension board, and in July,
per Orr?s recommendation and Governor Sny-
der?s approval, the city filed for Chapter 9 Bank-
ruptcy. In December, the US Bankruptcy Court
ruled Detroit eligible.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

WATER AS A HUMAN RIGHT

 

Global water crises have called attention to the need to affirm the
human right to water. The Human Right to Water and Sanitation

(H RWS) was recognized by the United Nations General Assembly in
2010.1

While foundational human rights documents do not make explicit ref-
erence to water, the right to water is implicated given water's central-
ity to human existence and thriving. The 1966 international Covenant
on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights advocates for ?the right of
everyone to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family,
including adequate food, clothing and housing, and to the continuous
improvement of living conditions."2

Similarly, the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights notes that
?Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health
and well-being of himself and his family, including food, clothing,
housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right
to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widow-
hood, old age, or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his
control."3

The fulfillment of both of those rights requires access to clean and
affordable water.

In 2002, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural stipulated
that water accessibility has four dimensions:4

Physical accessibility, meaning that water resources are in safe physi-
cal reach

Economic accessibility, requiring that water is affordable for all

Non-discriminatory accessibility, stipulating that water be available for
the most vulnerable groups of the population

Information accessibility, noting the right to seek and receive informa-
tion about water issues.

In Detroit, water is not affordable, particularly for the city's most
vulnerable residents. Moreover, victims of shutoffs were often not
provided with notices and information regarding their water bills and
water was shutoff unexpectedly. Mass water shutoffs in Detroit offer a
clear illustration of the violation of the human right to water.

Sources:

1 United Nations General Assembly Resolution 64/292, The Human Right to Water and Sanita-

tion, Al64/L.36l Rev.1, adopted July 26, 2010, 


2 UN General Assembly, International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 16 Decem-
ber 1966, United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 993:3, 
PageleESCRaspx.

3 UN General Assembly, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 10 December 1948, 217 A 


Resolution 64/292: The
Human Right to Water
and Sanitation

The General Assembly

1. Recognizes the right
to safe and clean drink
ing water and sanitation
as a human right that

is essential for the full
enjoyment of life and all
human lights;

2 Calls upon States and
international organiza-
tions to provide financial
resources. capacr-
ty~bui ding and technolo-
gy transfer, through inter-
national assistance and
cooperation, in particular
to developing countries,
in order to scale Lip
efforts to provrde safe.
clean, accessible and
affordable drinking water
and sanitation for all;

3. Welcomes the
decision by the Human
Rights Council to re-
quest that the indepen~
dent expert on human
rights obligations related
to access to safe drink-
ing water and sanitation
submit an annual report
to the General Assem-
bly.

4 UN Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights, ?General Comment No. 15: The Right to Water (Arts. 11 and 12 of the Cov-
enant), Adopted at the Twenty-Ninth Session of the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 2/200211 1 January 20,

2003, 

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 79

At the time of Orr?s appointment, he asserted
that Detroit had $18 billion in debt. The figure
was certainly high, but as Wallace Turbeville
noted, the figure is ?highly inflated and in large
part, simply For example, $6 billion
in DWSD debt is included, which is not merely
Detroit?s responsibility but also the responsibility
of the entire region.179 billions of dollars
of debt was used to inaccurately portray Detroit's

 

as a local failure marked by local incompetence
and corruption.

One month into Orr's tenure, in attempts to
recover value, the city entered into a
$5.6 million, two-year contract with private dem-
olition company Homrich Wrecking Inc. to carry
out 70,000 shutoffs on delinquent DWSD ac-
counts.180 Notably, this exceeds the funds allo-
cated for the currently-in-place Water Residential
Affordability Program The summer of
2014 constituted a massive spike in shutoffs, as
DWSD customer service department announced
that ?everybody is getting cut off who is $150 or
60 days in arrears. That is our policy, and we're

ramping up on our enforcement of that policy."182

The attempt to remedy Detroit finances by way

of maximizing the value of the city?s asset offers

a clear illustration of austerity finance: a strategy
where the field of solutions to fiscal stress is lim-
ited to reducing services and restoring revenue
through regressive measures including increases
in fees for basic utilities or increasing sales taxes.
Indeed, similar measures were implemented in
other areas. For example, the ?Plan of Adjustment"

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi

crafted by the Emergency Management Team and
presented in US Bankruptcy Court in February
2014 involved cutting pensions by 34 percent for
most municipal employees, and by 10 percent for
police and fire retirees. At the same time, the city
opted to pay secured bonds in full:?33

At lease since 2010, there have been efforts to
regionalize operation of DWSD, and under Emer-
gency Manager Orr, there was also a request for

3

mm
3-1? . 
In . HDHRICH

r9,

I .vul?

Image from the film I Do My Dying. Coutesy of Kate Levy, available online at 

proposals to put the district under private manage-
ment. In 2013, the city ultimately opted to regional-
ize DWSD through the creation of a new regional
water authority: the Great Lakes Water Authority,
or GLWA. As the following section discusses, the
GLWA arrangement continues the historical ineq-
uities governing the distribution of water in Detroit.

Conclusion

An examination of the history of Detroit's water
and sewerage system reveals two major themes
that are prevalent in similar systems across the
United Sates.

First, the water and sewerage system played an
integral role in suburban and regional economic
growth, determining areas of residential segrega-
tion and regional fragmentation. As urban water
and sewer systems developed and evolved during
periods of extreme racial inequality, the location
and expansion of areas served by the infrastruc-
ture were, and continue to be, deeply divided by
class and race. This is in part because utility sys-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District Bl]

AREAS FOR FURTHER INQUIRY:
PUBLIC HEALTH CONSEQUENCES OF WATER ACCESS

There is a litany of well-established links between individual health outcomes and reliable access to clean water
and adequate sanitation. There are similarly established links between water and sanitation access and public
health outcomes. Situating Detroit within this long-standing line of research, it is wise to study public and indi-
vidual heath has been effected by the number of water shutoffs in the city of Detroit.

TK: Bits about Community Research Collective, mapping the water crisis

Understanding the specific effects in Detroit will enable the best targeted strategies to address effects that
exist in Detroit. The spirit of such a study is not to simply reveal problematic outcomes, but far more importantly
to direct attention to systemic problems that need attention.

This is another opportunity for Detroit to be a national leader in extending study of water access in the domestic

context. Many studies have been done internationally, but more research needs to develop unique problems

that are presented within the domestic context.

As a matter of public circulation and understanding of this type of study it is important to understand standards

of epidemiological investigation.

The utility of this type of study is any expectation to prove causation. Causation in epidemiological studies is
not obvious. Probabilistic standards of causation are appropriate for epidemiological studies, not necessity-suf-

ficiency standards. studies can

never prove causation; that is, it cannot prove that a specific

risk factor actually causes the disease being studied. Epidemiological evidence can only show that this risk
factor is associated (correlated) with a higher incidence of disease in the population exposed to that risk factor.
The higher the correlation the more certain the association, but it cannot prove the causation. 

Studies revealing association, or correlation, are meaningful and reveal new important insights.

Spatial analysis presents an important component

of research in general, including the field of epidemiolo-

gy. There are also limitations inherent in epidemiological study due to privacy standards of personal medical
records. Studies that use individual patient data are routinely, and necessarily, aggregated to census tract level

or zip code.

terns developed in response to growing popula-
tions, and these population dynamics were deeply
informed by race and ethnicity?for example, peri-
ods of immigration from European countries, the
migration of Black people from the South to the
North?s industrial centers, and White flight from
central urban areas.

The development of urban and suburban regions
was deeply informed by an interest in segregat-
ing races and resources. Physical infrastructure
bears the traces of this legacy and has played a
significant role in perpetuating it. Infrastructure
dictated where people lived and worked, where
businesses could open, and where industry could
grow. Thus, the footprint of utility services follows
the historic patterns of regional and municipal
segregation along race and class lines. Similarly,
the water system's management practices and
system operations reflect dominant and shifting
stories of need, priorities, and management policy.
In this way, Detroit's water and sewerage system

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi

 

is not a technical feature of the city that standards
apart from its social history. Instead, the water and
sewerage system is a central component of struc-
tures that determine the inequitable distribution of
resources within the region.

Secondly, for almost four decades leading up to,
during, and following the bankruptcy, Detroit's
water and sewerage department fell under multiple
management structures that each implemented
different policies in an attempt to ensure regional
water quality. This included a long process to cre-
ate a feasible and durable compliance schedule
with the EPA to ensure the system would meet
environmental quality standards. DWSD operated
under court supervision from 1977 until 2013.
Upon conclusion of the court process Kevyn Orr
was appointed as emergency manager.

However, while the duration of outside system
management in Detroit is exceptional, the extent
to which the water utility has struggled to meet

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 81

federal regulations is unexceptional. Current envi-
ronmental regulatory standards and practices date
back to President Nixon's administration in the
19705, and water utilities were pushed to imple-
ment changes to meet them.184 The pressure to
meet these standards presented challenges for
many water systems, and particularly for those
with limited financial resources. These challenges?
and the fines that accompany them?continue to
affect water utilities across the country.

The history of the water system in Detroit echoes
the significance of the relationships between
public infrastructure, the equitable distribution of
vital resources, urban development, and structur-

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.mi

al racism. Power comes from democratic voice
and resources, and in the case of Detroit, both
were denied. Suburban growth was enabled by
Detroit?s support, and that of the water system in
particular. While blame for the current situation
cannot and should not be placed on one event
or a single individual, it is clear that the problem
would not have developed to this extent if the
community had more of a voice in the workings of
this department that shapes their lives in so many
ways. All discussion of the current water crisis
must always fall in the context of the social and
financial circumstances that created it.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water SeWer District

82

ENDNOTES

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.mi Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 83

 

End notes

1 ?Regional Sewer Disposal System
Lease" between City of Detroit and the
Great Lakes Water Authority. June 12.
2015; ?Regional Water Supply System
Lease" between City of Detroit and
the Great Lakes Water Authority, June
12, 2015; ?Water and Sewer Services
Agreement," between City of Detroit and
the Great Lakes Water Authority, June
12. 2015; all available at 

Emmet 2? 15
pdf.

2 Wallace C. Turbeville. "The Detroit Bank-
ruptcy," report by Demos: An Equal Say
and an Equal Chance for All, November
2013: 16. 
Basis


3 Mike Campbell, ?City of Detroit Trash
Pickup Services Begin New Era of Pri-
vatization." CBS Detroit, June 2, 2014,
httg?getroitg?mkgg 93120 I 

Mamas! - 1. was-inasm-

4 Kirk Pinho, ?Syncora Seeks Developers
for 12 Acres of Riverfront Land in De-
troit,? Crain?s Business Detroit. March
21 . 2017. 



of-east-riverfront-land-in.

 

5 Kirk Pinho, I?Syncora Seeks Developers
for 12 Acres of Riverfront Land in De-
troit," Crain's Business Detroit, March
21 . 2017. Mtwm?u??aimimmui

wmss?exsmm?i ml was-

of-east-riverfront-land-in.

6 Kirk Pinho, "Syncora Seeks Developers
for 12 Acres of Riverfront Land in De-
troit," Crain's Business Detroit, March
21. 2017. b?p?Jim-rwggigsgletmit Egg]!


m. I ~l r- - 
of-east-riverlront-land-in.

7 Michigan House Bill No. 4122, January
20, 2011, introduced by Reps. Heise

and 
Enigma! um ntsiI 011- 124? Iintr -

ii cit-HI ?:11 mu.

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu moses.Michigan House Bill No. 4009, Jan-
uary 22, 2013. introduced by Rep.
Heise. 



United States vs. City of Detroit, 2:77-cv-
71100-SFC Doc 2528, March 27,
2013. 


Root Cause Committee, "Root Causes
Committee Report." March 13, 2013,

Wilmetmm?
Wmuua??iri
maximums.

Root Cause Committee, "Root Causes
Committee Report." March 13, 2013,
l-trr {0523;11:1an
aheat?us?bs?meseamm:
Lgnj?cause line! 
0 

United States vs. City of Detroit, 2:77-cv-
71100-SFC Doc 2528, March 27,

2013United States vs. City of Detroit, 2: 77- -cv-
71100 SFC DOC 2528, March 27,
2013.121ms?mme?aamlamt
aims: 71100 le.

?United Water and Pontiac, MI Sign 18
Professional Services Agreement for
Management of Water and Wastewater
Systems," Business Wire, July 5. 201 1,
hi 
home/20110705006023/en/Unit-
vF? ti Prof 


17

 

For more on restructuring and privat-
ization of water systems, see Food and
Water Watch. "Trends in Water Privatiza-
tion: The Post-Recession Economy and
the Fight for Public Water in the United
States," November 2010. 
{gel agll
fling! yg?lgf 9132 gg


"Request for Information for Potential
Operators of Detroit Water and Sewage
Disposal Systems and Detroit Water
Sewerage Department," issued by The
City of Detroit and Kevyn D. Orr, Emer-



gency Manager, April 7, 2014, http:/l


trc-it- titer-1n -S were e-D tlrt-
1 4, Also see Mat-
thew Dolan, "Detroit Seeks Proposals
to Privatize Its Water System, The Wall
Street Journal, March 25, 2015, 

able-1395698631.

The key tenets of the lease deal (de-
scribed here) are described in the "Mem-
orandum of Understanding Regarding
the Formation of The Great Lakes Water
Authority." September 9th. 2014. execut-
ed by representatives from the City of
Detroit, Wayne County, Oakland County,
Macomb County, and the State of Michi-
gan, 


ity_MOU_executed.pdt. Full documen-
tation of the agreement is available in
the "Regional Sewage Disposal Lease
between City of Detroit and 

and the ?Regional Water System Lease
between City of Detroit and as
well as the "Shared Service Agreement,"
all are available at WW

mm

This payment entails "$20,700,000 as the
rate of return for the water system and
$5,516,000 pursuant to settlements for
the sewer system," see the ?Memorandum
of Understanding Regarding the Forma-
tion of The Great Lakes Water Authority."
September 9th, 2014, executed by repre-
sentatives from the City of Detroit. Wayne
County, Oakland County, Macomb Coun-
ty, and the State of Michigan. 



pdf. These provisions are also described
in the lease agreements, "Regional Water
Supply System Lease" between the City
of Detroit and GLWA, Section 5.6. part
21; ?Regional Sewer System Lease"
between the City of Detroit and GLWA,
Section 3.2, part 12. both available
at 

bid=39.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 84

?Amended Resolution to Approve 27
Master Agreement Between the City

of Flint. Department of Environmental

Quality of the State of Michigan. The

Genesee County Drain Commissioner.

The Great Lakes Water Authority, and

the Karegnondi Water Authority." pre-

sented November 20. 2017. L1__p_s?
await? "Ii LEPEMQEQQ 11.15.1192 23

ma?wmm??l 1 12911de As of the

writing of this report the Governor has

not yet released a timeline of when his
appointment of a Flint resident will be

completed: see Oona Goodin-Smith.

?Some Promises to Entice Flint into

30-year Water Deal Not Yet Fu?IIed. 29
MLive. January 30. 2018. 
8?01?
WW.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Depart-

ment. "Great Lakes Water Authority:

Frequently Asked Questions." October

1  2014' 

aad?ILaLt?aanenLaLLAM 30
DWSD?k?OTransilinnurb 201-amt)
Great?WQGg?es't? star?- OAuth ri-

11251.

Detroit Water and Sewerage Depart-

ment. "Trust Receipts and Disburse-

ments Worksheet: DWSD Local Sys-

tem." secured through a request 31
to DWSD. accessed November 2. 2017.

Luis Garcia. "Macquarie Sells Water
Company for 7 Billion." Wall Street
Journal, June 2 
Iainiglasjvruaggugne so 15- ?atm- 
asa??lhgboniw??. A

See "About Aquarion." Aquarian Water
Company website. accessed March 20.
201 B. 
mu;-

debt. which was comprised
of the assumption of DWSD debt.
described in GLWA. "Comprehensive
Annual Financial Report: Fiscal Year
Ended June 30. 2016." July 2017:
22. 


32

United States Environmental Protec-

tion Agency. National Pollutant Dis- 33
charge Elimination System. "Combined

Sewage Overflows (0803). 

moses. For more on the

impact of combined sewage systems

on the well-being on communities.

see Mary Anna Evans. "Flushing the

Toilet has Never Been Riskier." The 34
Atlantic. September 17. 2015. 

g: W?mg? a 
rim 
WW

Detroit Water and Sewerage Depart-
ment. ?Wastewater Master Plan Volume
October 2003: 3. 

99.1mmu351m .I .I 2.6. 2L1 77.9511. 35

I moses.ml

See United States Environmental Pro-
tection Ag?ency. ?Green Infrastructure
Permitting and Enforcement Series:
Factsheet 2? Combined Sewer Over-
?ows." accessed March 14. 2018.


M.

?Water and Sewer Services Agree-
ment" between City of the Detroit and
GLWA. June 12. 2015. attachment 2.
"Agreement to Revise 080 Project List."
htt??autteachmwaha?mgim?i?

bid=39.

While the original 1999 Rate Settlement
Agreement is not available. its key tenets
are outlined in the ?Water and Sewer
Services Agreement" between City of
the Detroit and GLWA. June 12. 2015.
attachment 2. "Agreement to Revise
CSO Project List." 111th gt;
mec?ak 
lqukma'li?D?J?hidE?

?Water and Sewer Services Agree-
ment" between City of the Detroit and
GLWA. June 12. 2015. attachment 2.
"Agreement to Revise CSO Project List."


bit?.32.

"Water and Sewer Services Agree-
ment" between City of the Detroit and
GLWA. June 12. 2015. attachment 2.
"Agreement to Revise 080 Project List."
bites?gymaaia'?al?mm Ital}.
g?Qabmt-x?i??la
M.

DWSD's 2018-2022 Capital Improve-
ment Plan estimates $52.575.000 in
expenses related to Green Infrastructure
projects over the five year period. How-
ever. when detailing the costs of partic-
ular projects later in the plan. the costs
are much higher. Thus $52 million is.
modestly. Detroit?s obligation as enumer-
ated in the Shared Service Agreement.
See Detroit Water and Sewerage De-
partment. 8- 2022 Capital Improve-
ment Plan Report." June 2017. available
for download at Wm


Detroit Water and Sewerage Depart-
ment. "Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department Drainage Charge Questions
and Answers." accessed February 26.
201B. 




Currently. the existence of at least 400
Detroit churches is threatened. See
?Healthy Communities." Metropolitan
Organizing Strategy Enabling Strength
(MOSES). accessed February 26. 2018.

munities.

A 2002 piece in Water Policy authored
by Peter Rogers. Radhika de SilvaRamesh Bhatia described the way in
which water pricing policies can be used
to promote the equitable. efficient. and
sustainable distribution of water. Impor-
tantly. they discuss the need for full-cost
pricing rate structures which take
into account a robust cost-of-service.
and the way in which increased water
prices can improve distributional equity.
See See Peter Rogers. Radhika de Silva.
Ramesh Bhatia. ?Water is an Economic
Good: How to Use Prices to Promote
Equity. Efficiency. and Sustainability."
Water Policy (2002). 1~17.

"Regional Water Supply System Lease"

between the City of Detroit and Great

Lakes Water Authority. Section 3. 3.

p. 13. Regional Sewer System Lease.

Section 3. 3: 3. I




?Water and Sewer Services Agree-
ment." between The City of Detroit and
the Great Lakes Water Authority. Article
3. "Water and Sewer Service; Rates:"
1112. 
a: 
g=3 9.

Notably. DWSD-R will be subject to the
same rate increases as other wholesale

customers; customers with greater or
similar economic conditions than Detroit.

 

See ?Memorandum of Understanding
Regarding the Formation of The Great
Lakes Water Authority." September

9th. 2014. executed by representatives
from the City of Detroit. Wayne County.
Oakland County. Macomb County. and
the State of Michigan. 

eraI_announcements/ga201 4-09-09_re-


?Regional Water System Lease" be-
tween City of Detroit and GLWA. Sec-
tion 5.6d: 21. 
oraI'LInkClIck 
?fiitapiiaMF 

These costs are detailed in the LWA
Capital Improvement Plan 2018-2022."
Version 1.1. November 29, 2016. Sec-
tion 3.3. 

Ink; :figk?s?g? file?g?eleZ?gKQQI-q?i
W-

Notably. the four percent rate cap fac-
tors in the costs associated with the
currently-in-place Water Residential
Assistance Program (WRAP). In deter-
mining the cap. GLWA employed consul-
tancy firm Piante and Moran to conduct
a ?Lease Feasibility Study." They found
that "?The 4- -percent revenue increase
cap is sufficient to support the $50
million lease payment. the $45. 4 million
annual pension reimbursement and the
$4.5 million annual Water Residential
Affordability Program." Although we do
not have access to Plants and Moran's
report. some details are provided in

the July 2015 "Customer to Owner:

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 85

Then-Now-Future" presentation. 
aumar?a?atarmdtakm unearth-
blimiu?lma?lmt?hm??-

Oona Goodin-Smith. ?30-year Flint
GLWA Deal Gets Stamp of Approval."
Live. November 29. 2017. http:/l
wmepoml?gqsif rig;
HBO-yogi 
MM-

?Memorandum of Understanding Re-
garding the Formation of The Great
Lakes Water Authority.? September

9th. 2014. executed by representatives
from the City of Detroit. Wayne County.
Oakland County. Macomb County. and
the State of Michigan. 




Great Lakes Water Authority. ?2017
GLWA One Water Partnership," Septem-
ber 28. 2017. 

ter-Partnenno-Aureenwnt-FINAL ndl.

 

See Michigan Department of Trea-
sury. "Detroit Financial Review
Commission." accessed March 22.
201 8. DIMW?K-H?lglji??l? statutes:
?amiQt?l?i?li?ljf??
WEN.

?Water and Sewer Services Agreement"
between the City of Detroit and GLWA.
Section 5.3. "City Budget ;Detroit 
Application of Lease Payments." 17..

I SEEM 3 
b10519.

?Regional Sewage Disposal Lease
between City of Detroit and GLWA. Sec-
tion 3.4. ?Lease Payment." 13; "Regional
Water System Lease between City of
Detroit and GLWA. Section 3.4. ?Lease
Payment." 13. Both available at [3:191:11



See "Regional Sewage System Lease"
between the City of Detroit and GLWA.
Section 8.2. ?Arbitration." 27; See ?Re-
gional Water Suppy System Lease"
between the City of Detroit and GLWA.
Section 8.2. ?Arbitration." 26. Both
available at 
Lmli.C__lIC_k_tI- .?p?f'il?EUM - =2 ERIE:


"Regional Sewage Disposal Lease
between City of Detroit and GLWA. Sec-
tion 3.4. ?Lease Payment." 13; Regional
Water System Lease between City of
Detroit and GLWA. Section 3.4. "Lease
Payment." 13. Both available [gtigkgt?EZQ g?QgBi-g??l?cag?tabi??g.
?Regional Sewage Disposal Lease
between City of Detroit and GLWA. Sec-
tion 3.4. ?Lease Payment." 13; Regional
Water System Lease between City of
Detroit and GLWA. Section 3.4. "Lease
Payment." 13. Both available at mag/1

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I moses.Quint-h Iw- ur 
[6351631695933ij

Regional Sewer System Lease be-
tween the City of Detroit and GLWA.
Section 3.3. "Lease of Leased Sewer
Facilities." 12. available at 
reticlmilwater 


WRAP program described at ?Com-
munity Action Alliance Wayne
Metro Community Action Agency.
accessed February 25. 201 B. http:/l


Joe Guillen. ?For Poor Detroiters.
Help for Water Bills Dries Up." De-
troit Free Press. August 1'7. 2016.

lucalinm-hiuanidelroili?? ?i?alj?
luv inr 


GLWA-WRAP Program Summary.
?Year to Date Program Activity Report:
March 1. 2016-December 1. 2017."
secured through a F.O.I.A. request to
DWSD. accessed November 2. 2017.

Quoted in Joe Guillen. l'For Poor De-
troiters. Help for Water Bills Dries Up."
Detroit Free Press. August 1'7. 2016.
htlpa?mwtreepaomt? salami

mm?m?gr?aiswcem
EL?m?lt?sJiti?i?l?li?jai-

Roger Colton. Water Affordability
Program for The Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department." January 2005.

i it i 
Watanodt.
Roger Colton. Email to Lauren Lyons
(Contributing Writer). Personal com-
munication with Roger Colton. January
2. 2018.

Roger Colton. Water Affordability
Program for The Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department." January
2005: 6. 
downlgagstPapersi2005?itr200 1 ?51:20
matei?hlg?atsandi-

Detroit Water and Sewerage De-
partment. ?Trust Receipts and Die-
bursements Worksheet: DWSD Local
System." secured through a F.O.I.A.
request to DWSD. requested Novem-
ber 2. 2017.

International Human Rights Law Clinic
at UC Berkeley Law School. "The
Human Right to Water Bill in Califor-
nia: An Implementation Framework for
State Agencies." May 2013. hnpg?
?naLndI.

Founded in Detroit. is
comprised of local. state. and national
organizations advocating for legisla-
tion that guarantees ?comprehensive
access to safe. affordable drinking

63

64

65

66

67

water and sanitation - the human rights
to water and sanitation." They require
that water be accessible. safe. and

affordable. Learn more at 

w. I.

This list of legislation was obtained
through email correspondence between
Alice Jennings and the authors. February
8. 2018.

A 2002 piece in Water Policy authored
by Peter Rogers. Radhika de Silva.
and Ramesh Bhatia described the

way in which water pricing policies
can be used to promote the equitable.
efficient. and sustainable distribution
of water. lmportantly. they discuss the
need for full-cost pricing (is. rate struc-
tures which take into account a robust
oost-ol-service. and the way in which
increased water prices can improve
distributional equity. See See Peter
Rogers. Radhika de Silva. Ramesh
Bhatia. "Water is an Economic Good:
How to Use Prices to Promote Equity.
Efficiency. and Sustainability Water
Policy (2002). 1-17.

"Provisions for periodic review of the
terms of the agreement are detailed in
the ?Water and Sewer Services Sevices
Agreement? between the City of Detroit
and Great Lakes Water Authority. June
12. 2015. Section 5.04. (oi; Section
5.07. available at hlt?Slii?Uil?e chill-



The currently proposed plan will be
referred to as WAP from here on.

 

 

 

 

 

Implementing an income-based afford-
ability plan is a central demand of the
People?s Water Board. member organi-
zations of which include AFSCME Local
207. Baxter's Beat Back the Bullies
Brigade. Boggs Center - Detroit. Cities
of Peace Detroit. Detroit Black Gom-
munity Food Security Network. Detroit
Greens. Detroit Jews for Justice. Detroit
Social Justice Team United Church of
Christ. Detroit People?s Platform. Detroi-
ters Resisting Emergency Management.
East Michigan Environmental Action
Council. Ecumenical Theological Semi-
nary. FLOW. Food Water Watch. Great
Lakes Bioneers Detroit. Highland Park
Human Rights Coalition. Immaculate
Heart of Mary (IHM). MECAWI. Matrix
Theater Company. Michigan Citizens for
Water Conservation. Michigan Coalition
for Human Rights. Michigan Unitarian
Universalist Social Justice Network
(MUUSJN). Michigan Welfare Rights
Organization. Moratorium NOW. Nation-
al Boricua Human Rights Network. Rosa
and Raymond Parks Institute for Self
Development. Sierra Club. Sisters of
Mercy. Sisters. Servants of the Immacu-
late Heart of Mary (IHM). Justice Peace
Sustainability Detroit Of?ce. Small Ville
Learning Farms. St. Peter's Episcopal
Church. Voices for Earth Justice. We the
People of Detroit

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 88

68

Notably. the EPA figures determine the
affordability of water based on medium
household income of service areas for
water. while using figures for national
MHI for determining the affordable bur-
den for water. Colton's plan. on the other
hand. determines affordable burdens on
the basis of household. estimating the
number of participants in the program.
According to multiple sources. including
the American Water Works Association.
United States Congressional Budget
Office. UNC Environmental Finance
Center. independent experts. and 
own Science Advisory Board. median
household income (MHI) is a poor

input for calculations on affordability.
Econometric studies have shown a very
small correlation between MHI and
poverty. making MHI a poor indicator
for economic need. MHI does not take
actual income distributions into account.
meaning it does not capture economic
impacts across different groups. De-
pending on the income distribution,
lower income groups could face dire
need even in areas without low MHI. The
basic calculations EPA makes based on
system-wide MHI do not factor in other
household burdens. such as non-discre-
tionary spending. which can vary widely
between communities. Additionally. use
of a single-year MHI number does not
capture historical or future economic or
demographic trends such as population

decline. changes in the unemployment
rate. or other indicators of poverty like
use of pubtic assistance programs.
See United States Environmental Pro-
tection Agency. "Affordability Criteria
for Small Drinking Water Systems:

An EPA Science Advisory Board Re-
port," A Report by the Environmental
Economics Advisory Committee of the
EPA Science Advisor Board. Decem-
ber 2002. beams-anaemia?.
QQJQEY. 5 jEZy?gw
th=ZyDgagunmt?i??tgnFEPA?lm



pEmnEiQEietdam?st?eaE??;

iQe?iE?QEMd?E?imgue?i



Wsi'
Eass?omta'uummatatmm




4 2 5 3 
?arch?anit=ZyAclinnL?Bgck=ZyAc


United States
Conference of Mayors; American Water
Works; Water Environment Federation.
2013. Affordability Assessment Tool for

 

 

69

70

71

72

Federal Water Mandates. at 4; Fisher.
Sheehan. Colton. 2005. "Defining "Af-
fordable" Water Rates for Low-Income
Affordability Programs." Law and
Economics Insights 05 nvironmen-
tal Finance Blog. UNC Environmental
Finance Center. Percent MHI as an
Indicator of Affordability of Residential
Rates: Using the US Census Bureau's
Median Household income Data. http:/I?





Colton's plan sets the affordable burden
on a sliding scale of 2-3 percent. de-
pending on the household income.

United States Environmental Protection
Agency, "Memorandum Assessing Finan-
cial Capability for Municipal Clean Water
Act Requirements.? January 13. 2013:

3. 


Roger Colton. Water Affordability
Program for The Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department." January 2005.

'bQUDiz-Irg t?ih?g
Waterpdj.

See City of Philadelphia. Bill No.
140607-AA. ?19-1605. "Limitation on
Action to Enforce Collection; Income
Based Water Rate Assistance Program."

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 3: Meter Charges and Offsetting Water Affordability Program Costs
Number of Custom- Meters Annual Meters Total Revenue
ers Charge Charge
Residential $250,439.00 $1.00 $12.00 $3.125,268.00
Commercial $16,182.00 $20.00 $240.00 $3,883,680.00
Industrial $1,506.00 $275.00 $3,800.00 $4,969,800.00
Municipal $510.00 $80.00 $900.00 $459,000.00
_ST:h_oo  $587.00 $80.00 $900.00 $528,300.00
Housing $612.00 $80.00 $900.00 $550,800.00
Total Revenue $13,515.848.00
Total Pro ram $13,515.91600
Cos
Annual Excess/ $932.00
(Shortfall)

 

 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

87

amendment to Section 1. Chapter
19- 1600 to the Philadelphia Code.

Min Imai?llbdalahiLCa?L
had??pxw?flhi??wpdh Trincia L.
Nadolny. ?For Low-Income Residents.
Philadelphia Unveiling Income-Based
Water Bills.? The Inquirer. June 19. 2017I 51
htm?m. 3913b
tm?yil?mlm-?II 
mm

80

Whim-
Note that start-up costs are not included
in the budget. given that not all residents 82

will enroll in the early days. or even the
?rst year of the program. This budgeted
surplus will be used for start-up costs.
These ramp-up savings should be suf-
?cient to fund all non-recurring start-up
costs.

On November 27. 2017. our team sub- 83
mitted a Federal Open Information Act

(FOIA) request to GLWA. Many of the

figures we requested were not provided

by GLWA. including data for average

bills. number of customers in particular

classes (residential. commercial. indus-

trial. etc.). and the number of shutoffs. In

order to comprehensively calculate the

cost of the water affordability program 84
and to present a cost recovery mecha-

nism. these figures are required.

Baltimore WAP

Given the quantity of these classes 85
of customers in Detroit in 2005. the

costs of the program played out in the

table below. As shown. the affordability 6
scheme is offset by the meter charges.

Roger Colton. Water Affordability

Program for The Detroit Water and

Sewerage Department." January 2005.

Imp: [In?gmimijj?gs?
W29 37
Mandi

We requested these figures from GLWA
through a FOIA request. and they re-
sponded stating that they do not keep
figures on customer classes of custom-

ers in the region. as they are a wholesale 86
retailer. Although GLWA ought to keep
up with the number of customers in 89

the authority. one could also find these
figures by requesting figures from each
wholesale customer.




Michigan State Constitution. Article
IX ?31. Initiated Law. approved Nov.
7. 197's, Eff. Dec. 23. 1,978. hug-.11

It rs mi


Also see Eric Walcott.
I?What is the Headlee Amendment and 90
How Does it Affect Local Taxes?" Mich-
igan State University Extension. July 25.
may: .gjginnwg
1.1133 :11 15 th an 91

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesml

0w 1? all IN: .

Bolt vs. City of Lansing. Supreme Court
of Michigan. Docket No. 108511.
Decided December 28. 1998. 
Qg?elg 
30921 

American Civil Liberties Union of Michi-
gan. ?Memorandum: A Water Affordabil-
ity Plan forthe City of Detroit Does Not
Violate the Headlee Amendment? June
6. 2017. prepared by Michael P. Fancher.
Staff Attorney- Racial Justice Project.

American Civil Liberties Union of Mich-
igan. "Memorandum: A Water Afford-
ability Plan for the City of Detroit Does
Not Violate the Headlee Amendment."
June 6. 2017: 3. prepared by Michael P.
Fancher. Staff Attomey- Racial Justice
Project.

Note that under the current structure.
wholesale customers and DWSD Retail
have their own "Collection Rules and
Procedures" and related documents. It
is thus possible for GLWA to encourage
all wholesale customers and GLWA to
implement the policies. or to author and
implement new. system-wide proce-
dures.

Note that the implementation of a com-
prehensive water affordability plan would
likely decrease the likelihood of non-pay-
ment.



collection_rules.pdf

City of Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department. ?Interim Collection Rules
and Procedures." December 22. 2003?
[1.1

customer semi-giguston'jer jgfg?'?gjignf
ll ti rl . f.

Roger Colton. Water Affordability
Program for The Detroit Water and Sew-
erage Department." January 2005: 27.

1 E?g?trgitc?rgg
Mamet-

These recommendations are also in line
with Colton?s proposal.

See ?What is Green Infrastructure?" The
United States Environmental Protec-
tion Agency. accessed March 7. 2018.

jgrelwhp The
United States Environmental Protection
Agency. ?Green Infrastructure for Storm-
water Control: Gauging Its Effectiveness
with Community Partners." October
2015. em en_;ir_1_-

Eggsz?nggig gm, 


Annual ?Green Infrastructure
Progress Reports" can be found at

hJLf?Ql If mmim?w?100

Detroit Future City. ?139 Square Miles."
August 2017: 47.

DFC Reported!-

For more on Green Infrastructure
projects underway in Detroit. check

out DWSD's website. 


Ia- sr-rm -

Also see United States
Environmental Protection Agency.
"Green Infrastructure Targeting in South-
east Michigan: An Outcome-based Stra-
tegic Planning Framework to Identify and
Evaluate Green Infrastructure Opportuni-
ties." hugs-HEW aging-gym, 
l_InnflI_cs_2LI r' 
Igugr'l 911017 503 pi.

Kathleen Wolf. Katrina Flora. and Eliza-
beth Housley. "Research on the benefi-
cial aspects of the experience of nature
in cities: A literature review." Annapolis:
TKF Foundation. See also Kathleen
Wolf and Elizabeth Housley. "Feeling
stressed? Take a time out in nature.? An-
napolis. MD: TKF Foundation

Payam Dadvand. Jordi Sunyer. Xavier
Basaga?a. Ferran Ballester. Aitana
Lertxundi. Ana Fernandez-Somoano.
Marisa Estarlich. Raquel Garcia-Esteban.
Michelle A. Mendez and Mark J. Nieu-
wenhuijsen. ?Surrounding Greenness
and Pregnancy Outcomes in Four Span-
ish Birth Cohorts" Environmental health
perspectives 120. no. 10 (2012): 1481.

could save billions over the next 25
years. I think we need to cite how we got
this number.

Jared Green. "The New Philadelphia
Story is About Green Infrastructure."
The Dirt: Uniting the Built and Natural
Environment. blog by the American
Society of Landscape Architechts.
December 18. 2013.

aruf201311 WIBI?II?IeI-Iew-phileiget-
paw 

?Professional Practice: Green Infrastruc-
ture." American Society of Landscape
Architects (ASLA). accessed online.

March 7. 2018. mamaslaarat
9W.

 

Detroit Water and Sewerage Depart-
ment. ?Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department Drainage Charge Questions
and Answers." accessed February 26.

201B. htln?fd?wlwi 
Wm

2 ELI: ill?.212


Re: ?In March 2017. for example. hun-
dreds of local ministers of churches serv-
ing the city of Detroit and the surround-
ing communities wrote a letter to the
mayor of Detroit requesting his advocacy
on a number of measures to address

the inequities presented by the current
system"- need letter and reference

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water 5 Sewer District BB

101

102

103

104

105

106

107

108

109

110


Wm?msmm??mw?



ty+Council+Report.+DLBA.pdf

I?Memorandum of Understanding Re-
garding the Formation of The Great
Lakes Water Authority." September

9th. 2014. executed by representatives
from the City of Detroit. Wayne County.
Oakland County. Macomb County. and
the State of Michigan. 

eral_announcements/ga201 4-09-09_re-




targeting_report__01 1017_503.pdf

139 square'miles page 71; 

Mamba? =r
W?xt?wg
35 my

bummtwepmawatwrw - rt:- 
Wazm

10E

An additional important objective of
developing engineering prototypes is

to make relevant information available

or small businesses. Often. the most
serious impediment to small and minority
business development is the simple lack
of information. Developing. posting and
refining these prototypes is an ideal way
to maintain a more equitable and sus-
tainable business community.

WaPo: "As a percentage of their total
incomes. which are larger. the rich gen-
erally spend less." ?This is one reason
that some economists are concerned
about rising levels of inequality. The rich
save more than the poor. and the more
they have. they more they'll save. Money
that's being saved isn?t being spent.
which means less business for everyone
from the dry cleaner on the comer to
the owner of a five-star hotel. In turn.
that means less work for everybody and
a lethargic economy." Source: Bureau

of Labor Statistics 
gov/cexl) Magda-waws-wa ?aunt-m
1 304114!
h- 93ml.-
In


 


WW Public Use

Microdata: bis. govlcex/
pumd.htm





31?3 S1

Joel Kurth. ?Detroit Shut Water to 1 in

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesml

112

113

114

115

116

117

10 Homes this Year. Yes. that's Prog-
ress." Bridge: News and Analysis from
the Center for Michigan. accessed
online February 26. 2018.111131me
ELIQIQ -

amm-thmaams

Katrease Stafford. ?Controversial
Water Shutoffs Could Hit 17.461
Detroit Households." Detroit Free
Press. March 26. 201 8. mm

ggtroitfito 1 
QUD-defrgIt-hgusghgigs[is buggy-511m;
W-

Katrease Stafford. "Controversial Water
Shutoffs Could Hit 17.461 Detroit
Households." Detroit Free Press. March
26. 2018.

Joel Kurth. ?Detroit Cites Progess. but
Water Shutoffs Actually Rose Last Year.?
Bridge Magazine. May 2. 2017. ll
mmagemimmfdemat-immak

yataush?u?uatua?vm?asmw.

United Nations Human Rights Office of
the High Commissioner. ?Detroit Water
Shut-Offs Target the Poor. Vulnerable.
and African Americans." UN HCR News
and Events. October 20. 2014. hnpz?
fl?ig 315E (3.1.1115!



United Nations Human Rights Office of
the High Commissioner. ?Detroit Water
Shut-Offs Target the Poor. Vulnerable.
and African Americans." UNHCR News
and Events. October 20. 2014. 11110.11
hr. 

WEE

United Nations General Assembly
Human Rights Council. ?Report of the
Special Rapporteur on the Human Right
to Drinking Water and Sanitation. Catari-
na de Albuquerque." Eighteenth Session.
Agenda Item 3: Promotion of the Protec-
tion of All Human Rights. Civil. Political.
Economic. Social and Cultural Rights.
Including the Right to Development.
hi mast
mumlmmim??m '1 

3 -A n. f.

Affordability measures for water vary
immensely. For example. California?s
Department of Public Health sets the
affordability threshold for water at 1.5
percent. the USEPA sets the standard
between 2-2.5 (for water only). and
United Nation's Development Program
sets the threshold at three percent

MHI. Additionally. there is disagreement
about if medium household income is
even the right mechanism for calculating
affordability. The American Water Works
Association (AWWA) identifies five main
limitations of using MHI to establish
affordability standards for water and
wastewater services. noting four alter-

118

119

120

121

122

123

native metrics for establishing water
affordability standards. See ?Affordability
Assessment Tool for Federal Water
Mandates." prepared for The United
States Conference of Mayors. The
American Water Works Association. and
The Water Environment Federation. by
Stratus Consulting. 2013: 7. 

manls?hrdabs?t??ftm?ab??y?a?aa

. It is also important to note
that the costs of water. water rates. are
highly contextualized and not easily com-
pared across multiple countries. states.
and systems. See The American Water
Works Association. 4 AWWA State
of the Water Industry Report." 2014.


ment/sotwilAWWASotWIReport201 4.
pdf.

Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.

Burgeoning Crisis? A Nationwide
Assessment of the Geography of Water
Affordability In the United States.?. PLOS
ONE 12(4): 90176645, 
lln-L' mam: Dii?l??

Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.

Burgeoning Crisis? A Nationwide
Assessment of the Geography of Water
Affordability In the United States.". PLOS
ONE 12(4): 
53.4.5.5

American Society of Civil Engineers.
"2017 Infrastructure Report Card:
Drinking Water." 2017. 
mat-51mm a: II ?lm Iw - emit
1  I - ?l - I
pdf.
Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.
Burgeoning Crisis? A Nationwide
Assessment of the Geography of Water
Affordability In the United States.". PLOS
ONE 12(4): 90176645. 
was. 59433.

Linn Washington Jr.. New to
Lower Philly Water Bills."" Al Die News.
January 9 2018.J121Laidia?mm

Emily-weighty] 3151283.

Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.
Burgeoning Crisis? A Nationwide
Assessment of the Geography of Water
Affordability In the United States.". PLOS
ONE 12(4): 90176645. 
qrgJ'lt). 13??quan 



Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.?A

124

Burgeoning Crisis? A Nationwide As-
sessment of the Geography of Water
Affordability in the United States.". PLOS
ONE 
10. 1 3? Mmammgl??d??.

Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.

Burgeoning Crisis? A Nationwide
Assessment of the Geography of Water
Affordability in the United States.". PLOS
ONE 12(4): 60176645. hum


Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 89

125

126

127

128

129

130

Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.

Burgeoning Crisis? A Nationwide
Assessment of the Geography of Water
Affordability in the United States.". PLOS
ONE 


See ?Protesters Decry Detroit Resi-
dential Water Shutoffs." Detroit Metro
Times. June 9. 2014. mm


W25.

See Barry M. Pomplom. Kristen E.
D'anci. and Irwin H. Rosenberg. ?Water.
Hydration. and Health." Nutrition Re-
views 68. no. 8 (2010): 439-458;

Paul R. Hunter. Alan M. MacDonald.
and Richard C. Carter. ?Water Supply
and Health." PLOS Medicine 7. no. 11
(2010): e1000361.

Allie Gross. "Experts See Public Health
in Detroit Water Shutoffs." Detroit Free
Press. July 26, 2017. mm.
tmim?mw?twi?MM
?i?l?W?mmt? :shu:
Jennifer Chambers.
"Experts: Water Shutoffs Causing
Public Health Emergency." The Detroit
News. July 26. 2017. mm
gig-gig? new; ?orgalldc-



Allie GrossI ?Experts See Public Health
in Detroit Water Shutoffs." Detroit Free
Press. July 26. 2017. h_tt.p_s_llw_ww
Egg michiggnj

Jennifer Chambers.
?Experts: Water Shutoffs Causing
Public Health Emergency." The Detroit
News, July 26. 2017. 
Wm? in. Imma?a?epaliae
.12 171? Ir lit-?bul-

See Duncan Mara. Jon Lane. Beth
Scott. and David TrOuba. "Sanitation
and Health." Medicine 7. no. 1 1
(2010): 91000363; Christian Jasper.
Thanh-Tam Le. and Jamie Bartram.
?Water and sanitation in schools: a
systematic review of the health and edu-
cational outcomes." International Journal
of Environmental Research and Public
Health 9. no. 8 (2012): 2772-2787;
Annette Priiss Usttin. Jamie Bartram.
Thomas Clasen. John M. Colford. Oliver
Cumming. Valerie Curtis. Sephie Bonjour
at al. ?Burden of Disease from Inade-
quate Water. Sanitation and Hygiene

in Low and Middle income Settings: a
Retrospective Analysis of Data from 145
Countries." Tropical Medicine Interna?
tional Health 19. no. 8 (2014): 894-905;
Guy Hutton. Laurence Haller. Sanitation
Water. and World Health Organization.
?Evaluation of the Costs and Bene?ts of
Water and Sanitation Improvements at

I mosesmi

131

132

133

134

135

136

137

138

139

140

the Global Level." (2004)

For more on social determinates of
health. see Kevin Fiscella and David R.
Vl?lliams. "Health Disparities based on
Socioeconomic Inequities: Implications
for Urban Health Care." Academic Medi-
cine 79. no. 12 (2004): 1139-1147.

Alexander Plum. Kyle Moxley. Marcus
Zervos. ?The Impact of Geographical
Water Shutoffs on the Diagnosis of P0-
tentially Water-Associated Illness. with
the Role of Social Vulnerability Exam-
ined." Henry Ford Global Health Initiative.
April 8. 2017. MW

117.14!


Alexander Plum. Kyle Moxley. Marcus
Zervos. ?The Impact of Geographical
Water Shutoffs on the Diagnosis of P0-
tentially Water-Associated Illness. with
the Role of Social Vulnerability Exam-
ined." Henry Ford Global Health Initiative.
Apn'l 
WW
II 

For a discussion on the mental health
implications of water scarcity. see Abby
Goodnough. Potent Side Eftect to
the Flint Water Crisis: Mental Health
Problems." The New York Times,

nj- mg Jan mg-
ler- gagg- -menl_gi_?e_a?h. him],

See Allie Gross. ?Experts See Public
Health Crisis in Detroit Water Shutoffs."
Detroit Free Press. July 26, 2017.

miuhigsmatwili?l Ui?fiZ?aJaLneiLvL-?I;
tar?vm?s?mu.

Center for Disease Control. "The Social
Vulnerability Index Face Sheet." mugs:?



We the People of Detroit Community Re-
search Collective. ?Mapping the Water
Crisis: The Dismantling of African-Amer-
ican Neighborhoods in Detroit: Volume
One." available to order online at Mail



We the People of Detroit Community
Research Collective. ?Mapping the
Water Crisis: The Dismantling ot Afri-
can-American Neighborhoods in Detroit:
Volume One." available to order online at
:liw it.
munitumseamhbuatem
?Every Neighborhood Has A Future.
And it Doesn't Include Blight. Detroit
Blight Removal Task Force Plan."
June 2014. '1 

W-

889 Bond. C. and R. Williams. 2007.
?Residential Segregation and the
Transformation of Home Mortgage
Lending." Social Forces 
Emily Badger. "The Dramatic Racial

141

142

143

144

145

146

147

Bias of Subprime Lending During the
Housing Boom." City Lab. August
16, 2013,
1 3 lig? 

tIe - ?gnng-hguatng-
Michael Powell. "Banks
Accused of Pushing Mortgage Deals
on Blacks." The New York Times.
June 6 2009 

omt??wti?i?l?ta?lhaimuiuml.

See June Manning Thomas. Redevel-
opment and Race: Planning a Finer
City in Postwar Detroit. Detroit: Wayne
State University Press. 2013: Robert
Goodspeed. ?Urban Renewal in Postwar
Detroit: The Gratiot Area Redevelop-
ment Project: A Case Study." 2004
Unpublished History Honors Thesis. The
University of Michigan. 
minubl ratings wart:
Megabugi

See June Manning Thomas. Redevelop-
ment and Race: Planning a Finer City in
Postwar Detroit. Detroit: Wayne State
University Press; Robert Goodspeed.
"Urban Renewal in Postwar Detroit: The
Gratiot Area Redevelopment Project: A
Case Study." 2004 Unpublished His-
tory Honors Thesis. The University of
Mrchigan, [1th 
Irons iut??i 3 10- 99.9- 

Mindy Fullilove. Root Shock: How
Tearing up City Neighborhoods Hurts
America. and What We Can do About
lt. Baltimore: One World/Ballantine.
2009.

Laura Gottesdiener. Of?cials
?Shocked' by Detroit's Mass Water
Shutoffs," Aljazeera America. October
20. 2014. hllgilgmarrtz?t? 
ELI 5; 

tml.

For more on the various consequences
of family breakdown. see Ann Mooney.
Chris Oliver. and Marjorie Smithl?lmpact
of Family Breakdown on Children's
Well-being: Evidence Review." pro-
duced for The Department for Children.
Schools. and Families: 2009; The So-
cial Policy Justice Group. The State of
the Nation Report: Fractured Families.
?Section C, Consequences of Family
Breakdown? December 2006: 45-67.




Laura Gottesdiener. Of?cials
'Shocked? By Detroit's Mass Water
Shutoffs." Aljazeera America. October
20. 2014. 

lumi-

See Sarah L. Szanton. Jessica M. Gill.
and Jerilyn K. Allen. I?AIlostatic Load: a
Mechanism of Socioeconomic Health
Disparities?!? Biological Research for
Nursing 7, no. i (2005): 7-15; Theresa M.
Beckie. Systematic Review of AI-
Iostatic Load. Health. and Health Dispari-

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 91]

148
149

150

151

152

153

154

155

156

157

ties." Biological Research for Nursing 14.
no. 4 (2012): 311-346; 0. Kenrik Duru,
Nina T. Harawa, Dulcie Kermah, and Keith
C. Norris. "Allostatic Load Burden and
Racial Disparities in Mortality." Journal of
the National Medical Association 104.
no. 1-2 (2012): 89-95.

Dana Kornberg. ?The Structural Origins
of Territorial Stigma: Water and Racial
Politics in Urban Detroit. 19505-20105."
International Journal of Urban and
Regional Research (2016): 26?.

Dana Kornberg. "The Structural Origins
of Territorial Stigma: Water and Racial
Politics in Urban Detroit. 1950s-20105."
international Journal of Urban and
Regional Research (2016): 268.

Amy Padnani. I?Anatomy of Detroit's De-
cline." The New York Times, December
08. 2013. 
te motive/201 3/08! 1 7/usldetroit-declin e.
html.

See Stacey A. Sutton. "Urban Revital-
ization in the United States: Policies and
Practices." by the United States Urban
Revitalization Research Project. Colum-
bia University. June 25. 2008: 27-32.

?lesl US RR P_Phase_l_Final__Report.
pdf.

Jake Blumgard. "How Redlining Segre-
gated Philadelphia.? Next City. December
8. 2017. 

gation.

Robert K. Nelson. LaDale \Mnling.
Richard Marciano. Nathan Connolly.

et al.. "Mapping Inequality: Detroit."
American Panorama. ed. Robert K.
Nelson and Edward L. Ayers. ac-
cessed February 22, 2018. 

5151 



United States vs. City of Detroit. 2:77-cv-
71100-SFC Doc 2528. March 27.
2013. us; 
- . For more
information about NPDES permits and
regulation. see ?ll

US Environmental Protection Agency.
?Federal Water Pollution Control Act."
last amended 2002. mpg/[mega
7-061?



The EPA filed suit in 1977 as part of a
wave of enforcement activities intend-
ed to oblige water systems across the
country meet the regulatory standards
set by new environmental legislation.
including an important set of amend-
ments to existing legislation that came to
be known as the Clean Water Act. It was
under the Clean Water Act that the EPA
filed suit.

 

 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmt

158

159

160

161

162

163

164

While the original 1999 Rate Settle-
ment Agreement is not available. its key
tenets are outlined in the "Water and
Sewer Services Agreement" between
City of the Detroit and GLWA. June

12. 2015. attachment 2. "Agreement
to Revise 080 Project List." 

tauataalzi?gi?luldraa?ta 
The deal is described in also the Winter
2001 DWSD ?In the Flow? newsletter
(Vol. 1. No. 2) .

The rate settlement agreement reflects
Feiken's obvious preference toward the
wealthy and white. Relatedly. in a 1984
interview with the Detroit Free Press.
the judge remarked. "One of the things
we have to give black people the time
to learn to do is to learn how to run city
governments." The city moved to disqual-
ify Feikens as federal overseer. claiming
that the judge's statement "have been
viewed by members of the public as
showing his bias or prejudice against
the mayor and other city of?cials." The
city's motion was eventually denied.
See James Barron. "Judge is Critical of
Detroit Mayor." New York Times. Sep-
tember 2. 1994. 

.

Great Lakes Water Authority Audit
Committee Minutes. March 4. 2016:
16. Emmet-atatwa?aqmmt



Diane Bukowski. "Water Dept. Cuts. Icy
Streets Linked." Michigan Citizen. Febru-
ary 21. 2004.

East District of Michigan US Attorney's
Office. "Former Detroit Water Director
Sentenced in Kilpatrick Corruption
Case." May 22. 2014. Mills?Milli
vi. I nir- ern't- -
lamestmaatellcad?lnw' - rI' -
llamas.

Joel Kurth and Christine MacDonald,
?Volume of Abandoned Homes 'Abso-
lutely Terrifying.? The Detroit News. May
14. 2015. 

rt 
ingl27237787.

Christine MacDonald and Joel Kurth.
"Foreclosure Fuel Detroit Blight. Cost
city $50 Million." The Detroit News. June
3. 2015.13115M51?mmammi




Josiah Rector. l'Accumulating Risk:
Environmental Justice and the History

of Capitalism in Detroit. 1880-2015."
Dissertation Submitted to the Graduate
School of Wayne State University. 2017:
31 1.

Note that these sorts of risky deals were
possible by The Commodity Futures

165

166

167

163

169

170

Modernization Act of 2000. which al-
lowed the swaps market to metastasize
from $180 billion in 1993 to $6 trillion,
in 2004 to $57 trillion by the summer of
2008. See Josiah Rector. ?Neoliberal-
ism's Deadly Experiment" Jacobin. Octo-
ber 21. 2016. allaaitlaw?iasabiamaa.
curring 1 till 

zatioal.

Curt Guyette. ?Bad Interest Rate Swaps
Contribute to Detroit Water Crisis and
Financial Crisis." Detroit Metro Times.
August 6. 2014. 

wasmama?aatw?w??mg:
See also Carrie Sloan. "How Wall Street
Caused a Water Crisis in America's
Cities." The Nation. March 11. 2016.
Ellie. Mantels!

amerigas-citiesl.
Darrell Preston. "Detroit Shows Wall
Street Never Loses on Bad Swaps:
Municipal Credit." Bloomberg. Septem-
ber 13. 2012. 'l
strait;
shgwa-wgll-s 
-m ni- it.

City of Detroit News Release: Water and
Sewerage Department. ?Detroit Water
Board Authorizes DWSD to Go Forward
with EMA Contract.? September 7. 2012.

rglg- aggsi
5109023212112 bowl: authorizes 

Detroit Water and Sewerage Depart-
ment. ?Detroit Water Board Authorizes
DWSD To Go Forward with EMA Con-
tract" September 7. 2012. mm
iw??wf?_qv?g?gs niannouncnmental

maiamm. go [a reexamine-
Wadi-

Michigan Legislature. Public Employment
Relations. 1947. Act 336. Eff. Oct. 11.
1947 CL 1948. 423.202 :Am. 1994.
Act 112. Eff. Mar. 30. 1995. TKK

Emergency management has roots in the
1986 appointment of a receiver for the
city of Ecorse. Michigan. which ended
in 1990. In 1988. Public Act (PA) 101
created an ?emergency financial manag-
er" for the specific case of Hamtramck.
In 1990. Public Act 72 was passed.
which enabled the appointment of an
Emergency Financial Manager for any
local government or governmental unit.
including public schools. And in 2011.
Public Act 4 renamed the position to
Emergency Manager and expanded the
authority of the appointed position.

The concept of an appointed emergency

manager or emergency financial manag-
er was challenged in court by Sugar Law
Center. Ultimately. PA 4 was repealed

by voters in the 2012 general election.
However. Michigan state government

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District 91

171

172

173

174

175

176

177

178

seemed insistent on the expansion of
authority enabled by PA 4. not being
content with PA 72. Even after PA 4 was
repealed by voters in 2012. the state
legislature passed Act 436. reinstalling
the ability to appoint an Emergency
Manager. In Detroit. not only was an
emergency manager appointed as per
PA 436. but the state legislature passed
a separate law that formed a financial
review commission that assumes ul-
timate authority on the city's finances
upon exit of bankruptcy. The city is still
subjected to state oversight three years
after exiting bankruptcy (after three con-
secutive balanced budgets. the financial
review commission will vote to waive its
authority).

James M. Hohman. "The 1987 City of
Ecorse Recievership." Mackinac Center
for Public Policy. October 29. 2012.
i'liips Hmawmankipauora/l 7381.

James M. Hohman. "Public Act 101 and
Public Act 72." Mackinac Center for
Public Policy. October 29. 2012. 
ngm.

James M. Hohman. ?Public Act 101
and Public Act 72." Mackinac Center for
Public Policy. October 29. 2012. 
my nag mgji' I 

Public Act 4 of 201 1. "Enrolled House
Bill No. 4124." Effective March 16.
2011. 
mammamimmsw?;


Act 436 of 2012. "Local Financial Sta-
bility and Choice Act." Effective March
28. 2013. bunn?mleai?latutammw

g- gt?oujg ct-
ngmg?? 

Act 181 of 2014. "Michigan Financial
Review Commission Act." Effective June
20. 2014. 
{ammh?m?umm?nuct?zl?milea

1 4.

Act 436 of 2012. "Local Financial Sta-
bility and Choice Act." Effective March
28. 2013I 

3: an;
namemmcl-act-43?-gl-2Q12.

Wallace Turbeville. "The Detroit Bank-
ruptcy." Demos, November 20. 2013.

 


tr it- .

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu I mosesmi

179

180

181

182

183

184

Mike Patton. "Detroit Files for Bankrupt-
cy Protection: the Facts. the Figures.
and the Fallout." Forbes. July 22, 2013.

411 t- ank-
uiammtatactom haiaatiuuledaams;
1.

The Board of Water Commissioners City
of Detroit. Michigan. "Proposed Contract
No. DWS-894 ?Water Shut-Off/Turn-On
Project" Contractor: Homrich Wrecking.

lnc. Designer: April 24. 2013.

"Community Action Alliance 
Wayne Metro Community Action Agen-
cy. accessed Febrary 25. 201B. http:/l


Alan Pyke. "Detroit Shuts off Water to
Thousands of Broke Residents.? Think
Progress. June 20. 2014 


?0568?4241371-

?Plan for the Adjustment of Debts of the
City of Detroit." City of Detroit. Michigan.
United States Bankruptcy Court. Eastern
District of Michigan. Chapter 9. Case
No.13-53846. Hon. Steven W. Rhodes.
Co?ti?i??j
MIME .. Lassa: 151.2128. 
justment-plan.pdf. Also see Amy Haimerl.
"Detroit Restructuring Plan Details: Pen-
sion Hits. 1.5 billion for Blight Removal.
Improvements."

The National Environmental Protection
Act. passed in 1970. created the Coun-
cil on Environmental Protection within
the Executive Office of the President. In
1970. Nixon created the Environmental
Protection Agency to consolidate envi-
ronmental program administration into a
single agency. These were the years of
major amendments to the Federal Water
Pollution Control Acts?known as the
Clean Water Act of 1977.

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

Endnotes: Executive Summary

1.

Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah 4.

Wrase. Burgeoning Crisis? A
Nationwide Assessment of the
Geography of Water Affordabil-
ity in the United States,? PloS

One 12, no. 1 (2017): e0169488, 5_



pone.0169488.

States and local governments are
directed to take the lead in investing
in infrastructure. There is rationale
to this recommendation because

investments in water infrastructure 6.

can have greater benefit to econom-
ic growth than other types of invest-
ment. Vale of Water Campaign, I?The
Economic Benefits of Investing in
Water Infrastructure," Available at
However,
the federal government has capacity
for investments that local and state
governments do not possess. The
recommendation for states to take
the lead on infrastructure investment
is often one based in pragmatism
because the federal government
has not made adequate investments
in recent decades and the current

presidential administration is not an 3-

exception in this regard. I?President
Trump?s infrastructure proposal
seems to omit many important areas
of need. The plan in the President's
proposed 2018 budget consists of
tax credits to private-sector inves-
tors, which would boost investment
in projects that will generate rev-
enue like tolls or user fees (such

as new roads and bridges) but
leave out maintenance of existing
roads, bridges, and water lines,

and construction of public schools
and many public transit projects.

Also, less profitable projects like
roads in rural areas likely wouldn?t
attract private investment even with
new tax credits." Elizabeth McNich-
ol, "It's time for states to invest in
infrastructure," August 10, 2017,
Center for Budget and Policy Prior-
ities. Accessed August 28, 2018.


9_

re

Congressional Budget Office, ?Pub-
lic Spending on Transportation and 
Water Infrastructure, 1956-2014,"
March 2015, available 
gov/publication/49910.

United States Environmental Protec-
tion Agency. 2016. ?Drinking Water
and Wastewater Utility Customer
Assistance Programs." 


water-customer-assistance-pro-
grams.

This was mentioned primarily re-
garding the potential for the large
scale of water shutoffs to increase
water age in the system. Water age
is a well-known problem for water
quality and is currently under dis-
cussion for further research.

Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.
Burgeoning Crisis? A Nation-
wide Assessment of the Geography
of Water Affordability in the United
States," PloS One 12, no. 1 (2017):
e0169488, 

pone.0169488.

The project team orients its work
and research within the attempt to
enable the formation of a targeted
universalist policy agenda for the fu-
ture of operation and man-
agement of the DWSD system?and
the alignment of interests across the
region. In short, targeted universalist
policy is a platform that will enable
groups with disparate needs to
benefit from different strategies that
are tailored for their circumstances.
At the same time, designing poli-
cies that are designed to resolve
structural barriers for those groups
can also benefit other people and
places. Ultimately. a well-aligned
and well-designed set of targeted
policies and strategies can supple-
ment each other such that the entire
service area can enjoy a universal
goal of water security, increased
environmental quality, and public
health.

Articles of Incorporation of Great
Lakes Water Authority, Article 4.

10.

11.

12.

13.




Final_090814_GDP.pdf Further
details on the formation and defin-
tions of Authorities are found in
MCL 124.281 Sec. 1 and 2. MCL
124.281 Sec. 1.found here 


MCL
124.281 Sec. 2. Found here 


?page=get0bject&objectName=m-
cl-124-282 The general powers that
a municipal authority has include
adopt bylaws, sue and be sued in
its own name, the ability to issue
bonds, including revenue bonds,
and the ability to ?acquire, hold, and
dispose of real and personal proper-
ty in the exercise of its powers and
the performance of its duties." See
Act 233 of 1955, MCL 124.284
here 




The key elements of 
lease agreement are described in
the ?Memorandum of Understanding
Regarding the Formation of The
Great Lakes Water Authority," Sep-
tember Q, 2014, 
org/d0wnloads_n/announcements/
general_announcements/ga2014-

ecuted.pdf/.

Joe Guillen, ?For Poor Detroit's,
Help for Water Bills Dies Up,?1 De-
troit Free Press, August 17, 2016,

local/michigan/detroit/201 6/08/17/
funding-detroits-water?assis-


Flint Water Advisory Task Force,
?Final Report," State of Michi-

gan (March 2016), p14. 


21 March2016_517805_7.pdf

See Peter Rogers, Radhika de
Silva, and Ramesh Bhatia, ?Water
is an Economic Good: How to Use
Prices to Promote Equity, Efficiency,

 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu

Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District

14.

15.

16.

17.

and Sustainability," Water Policy
(2002), 1-1'7, 

ments/ ROG RSO/o20et0/o20al0/020

2001 o/o20Water0/o20pricing%20 18.

to% 20 promoteO/o20eq uity.pdf.

?Memorandum of Understanding
Regarding the Formation of The
Great Lakes Water Authority," Sep-
tember 9, 2014, executed by repre-
sentatives from the City of Detroit,
Wayne County, Oakland County,
Macomb County, and the State of
Michigan, 
downloads_n/announcements/
general_announcements/ga2014- 19

ecuted.pdf.

The four percent cap was the re-
sult of the study conducted by the
public accounting and business
advisory firm Plante Moran, which
identified the possibility of capping
rates at four percent given that

only $4.5 million was budgeted for
water affordability. A comprehen-
sive affordability plan would require
significantly more funds, and thus
the cap is based on an artificially
low estimate of the costs of afford-
ability. Some key points from Plante
Moran?s study are described in a
presentation delivered in July 2015,
see 



Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department, ?Trust Receipts and
Disbursements Worksheet: DWSD
Local System," secured through a
F.O.I.A. request to DWSD, submit-
ted November 2, 201 

GLWA's compiled Master Bond
Ordinance No. 2015-02 is available
here on website, 

loads/2018/06/G LWA-Compiled_
Master_Sewer_Bond_Ordinance_
as_amended_through_8_10_2016.
This text reflects the initial Oc-
tober 2015 ordinance and amend-
ments adopted in December 2015
and January and August 2016. The
issuance documents for the 2016
Series and sewage disposal
system revenue refunding bonds is
available here on MSRB's website,

20-

EP745021-EP1 146524.pdf The
issuance documents for the 2016
Series A water supply system
revenue bonds and Series and

revenue refunding bonds is
available here on MSRB's website,



Bond series were upgraded to A3
from Baa1 or Baa2. Moody's Inves-
tors Service,.September 30, 2016,
Rating Action: Moody's Upgrades
GLWA's (Ml) Water Revenue Bonds
to A3 and Baa1 Outlook Stable.
Accessed August 5, 2018, available
here 
research/Moodys-Upgrades-GL-
WAs-Ml-Water-Revenue-Bonds-to-
A3-and--PR_903621795

. The issuance documents for the

2018 Series A sewage disposal
system revenue bonds and Series
201 BB and revenue refund-

ing bonds is available here on
MSRB's website, 
msrb.org/ES1 200337-E8937769-
E81 33135587.pdf The issuance

documents for the Series 2018A 21-

water supply system revenue
refunding is available here on
MSRB's website, 

ES1338580.pdf These bonds'
credit rating was also raised by
Moody?s to A2 or A3. Moody's

Investors Service. August 31, 2018, 22.

Rating Action: Moody's upgrades
Great Lakes Water Authority, Ml?s
sewer revenue bonds to A2 and
outlook is stable. Accessed
August 5, 2018, available here

23

Moodys-upgrades-Great-Lakes-

bonds--PR_905493778 In Moody's
words, ?The the
continued trend of strong financial
performance by an essential service
enterprise whose customer base
includes a substantial share of the
state's population. The rating bal-
ances the sewer system's health
debt service coverage and liquidity
against high leverage. The rating
also considers the large share of
system-wide revenue generated

by retail operations in the City of
The A3 rating on sewer
revenue bonds incorporates the
subordinate claim on pledged net


These bond series' credit rating
was raised by Moody's to A2 or A3.
Moody's investors Service, August
31, 2018, Rating Action: Moody's
upgrades Great Lakes Water Au-

24.

25.

thority, Ml?s sewer revenue bonds
to A2 and outlook is stable.
Accessed August 5, 2018, available
here 


revenue-bonds--PR_905493778
In Moody's words, ?The 
reflects the continued trend of
strong financial performance by an
essential service enterprise whose
customer base includes a substan-
tial share of the state's population.
The rating balances the sewer sys-
tem's health debt service coverage
and liquidity against high leverage.
The rating also considers the large
share of system-wide revenue gen-
erated by retail operations in the
City of The A3 rating on
sewer revenue bonds incorporates
the subordinate claim on pledged
net 

We the People of Detroit Commu-
nity Research Collective, "Mapping
the Water Crisis: The Dismantling
of African-American Neighborhoods
in Detroit: Volume One," available

to order online at http://wethe-

search/water].

Luis Garcia. ?Macquarie Sells Water
Company for $1.7 Billion," Wall
Street Journal, June 2, 2017, 

sells-water-company-for-1 -7-bil-
lion-1496428414.

See more details about this com-
parison in the full chapter on rec-
ommendations and institutional
relationships.

KPMG and City of Detroit, June
30, 2014, City of Detroit Sewage
Disposal Fund Basic Financial
Statements, Detroit Water and
Sewer District, p3. Accessed
Jane 4, 2015. KPMG and City of
Detroit, June 30, 2014, City of
Detroit Water Fund Basic Financial
Statements, Detroit Water and
Sewer District. p3. Accessed Jane
4, 2015.

The rules for presenting financial
statements in Annual Financial
Reports are set by the Governmen-
tal Accounting Standards Board
(GASB). Government entities are
required to report infrastructure
assets in their CAFR statement of
net assets. This is set forth in GASB
34.

 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

26. Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department, ?Trust Receipts and
Disbursements Worksheet: DWSD
Local System,? secured through a
request to DWSD, submit-
ted November 2, 2017.

27. ?Regional Water Supply System
Lease" between City of Detroit and
Great Lakes Water Authority, Sec-
tion 3.1 13. 
glwater.org/ Lin kClick.aspx?filetick-
et=a3ij7J1 
"Regional Sewage Disposal
System Lease" between the
City of Detroit and Great Lakes
Water Authority," Section 3.2 


RAG E-

pdf.

28. In the region, 3,800 miles of sewer-
age pipes are in Detroit, and 8,770
miles are in suburban areas. Of the
8,770 miles of suburban sewer,
only 970 miles are combined sewer
systems. while the vast majority of
Detroit's sewer is combined sewer.
See Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department. ?Wastewater Master
Plan Volume October 2003: 3,
126/
ML112620177.pdf.

29. United States Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, Website, National Pol-
lution Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES), Combined Sewer Over-
flows (0803). Accessed August 7,
2018, 
combined-sewer-overflows-csos

30. United States Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, Website, National Pol-
lution Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES), Combined Sewer Over-
flows (CS Os). Accessed August 7,
2018, 
combined-sewer-overflows-csos

31. United States Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, Website, National Pol-
lution Discharge Elimination System
(N PDES), Combined Sewer Over-
flows (CSOs). Accessed August 7,
2018, 
combined-sewer-overflows-csos

32. See United States Environmental
Protection Agency. ?Green Infra-
structure Permitting and Enforce-
ment Series: Factsheet 2? Com-
bined Sewer Over?ows," accessed
March 14, 2018, 

frastructure-Factsheet-2.pdf.

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

?Shared Services Agreement" 39.

between City of the Detroit and
Great Lakes Water Authority,
Attachment 2, ?Agreement to Re-
vise CSO Project List," June 12,
2015, 


ed-Part-1-O2-03-2016.pdf.
"Shared Services Agreement?
between City of the Detroit and
Great Lakes Water Authority,
Attachment 2, "Agreement to Re-
vise CSO Project List," June 12,
2015, 


40.

ed-Part-1-02-03-2016.pdf.

?Shared Services Agreement"
between City of the Detroit and
Great Lakes Water Authority,
Attachment 2, ?Agreement to Re-
vise CSO Project List," June 12,
2015, 


ed-Part-1-02-03-2016.pdf.

Detroit Water and Sewerage De-
partment, ?Detroit Water and Sew-
erage Department Drainage Charge
Questions and Answers," accessed
February 26, 2018, 

DWS 41.


Charge%20and%200redit%20Pro-


See ?Memorandum of Understand-
ing Regarding the Formation of
The Great Lakes Water Authority,?
September 9, 2014, executed by
representatives from the City of
Detroit, Wayne County, Oakland

County, Macomb County, and the 42-

State of Michigan, 

ments/general_announcements/
ga2014-09-09_regional_author-
Oona
Goodin-Smith, "30-year Flint GLWA
Deal Gets Stamp of Approval," 
Live, November 29, 2017, http://

est/201 7/1 
water_deal.html.

?Shared Services Agreement"
between the City of Detroit and

Great Lakes Water Authority, 43-
Article 2.2, "Termination of Agen- 44,

cy," 9, 


ed-Part-1-02-03-2016.pdf.

?Regional Water Supply Sys-

tem Lease" between City of
Detroit and Great Lakes Water
Authority," Section 3.4, ?Lease
Payment," 13, 

et=a3ij7J1 
"Regional Sewage Disposal System
Lease" between City of Detroit

and Great Lakes Water Authority,
Section 3.4, ?Lease Payment?, 13,


RAG E-

pdf.

?Regional Water Supply Sys-

tem Lease" between the City of
Detroit and Great Lakes Water
Authority, Section 8.2, "Arbi-
tration," 26, 

et=a3ij7J1 
"Regional Sewage Disposal System
Lease" between the City of Detroit
and Great Lakes Water Author-

ity, Section 8.2, ?Arbitration," 27,


RAG E-

Pdf;

The key elements of 
tease agreement are described in
the "Memorandum of Understanding
Regarding the Formation of The
Great Lakes Water Authority," Sep-
tember 9, 2014, 
org/downloads_n/announcements/
general_announcements/ga2014-

ecuted.pdf/.

"Regional Water Supply System
Lease" between City of Detroit and
Great Lakes Water Authority, Sec-
tion 3.1 13, 

et=a3ij7J1 
?Regional Sewer Disposal System
Lease" between the City of Detroit
and Great Lakes Water Authority,
Section 3.2 
wp-content/uploads/2015/1 1 I
Ea



Czerwinski, et al., 2017.

For this report I also conducted an
independent literature review and
interviews with experts and practi-
tioners. My findings are in complete
alignment with the National Acade-

 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu

Water Equity and Security in Detroit's Water Sewer District

45Public Administration's find-
ings regarding the critiques of EPA's

existing metrics and possible alter- 50_

natives. Despite the independence
of my own literature review and in-
terviews, there was significant over-
lap with experts and authors used
by NAPA. Because NAPA's findings
are presented as a meta-analysis,
and because of unique
position as a highly respected and
objective organization chartered by
Congress and tasked directly by the
Senate Appropriations Committee
to study this issue and provide rec-
ommendations to EPA, they will be
referenced more heavily than other
sources. It should be understood
that a single citation to NAPA rests
on input from a very wide variety of
published and interviewed sources.
both by them and independently by
me.

Czervvinski, et al., at 48-49. Forth-
coming, Zarella, Rick and Wendy
Ake (2018) Measuring Water Af-
fordability: Alternative place-based
and current metrics, Haas Institute
for a Fair and Inclusive Society.

8.3015, 115th Congress. Water
Affordability Act, June 6, 2018.
Available here, 
15th-congress/sen-
ate-bill/3015/text

8.3021 is America's Water In-
frastructure Act and was signed
into law on October 23, 2018.
Available here, 
15th-congress/

22search0/o22%3A%5B%22wa-
ter+infra-


bill/115th-congress/sen-
ate-bili/2800/text

Founded in Detroit, is
comprised of local, state, and na- 54
tional organizations advocating for
legislation that guarantees ?compre-
hensive access to safe, affordable
drinking water and sanitation the
human rights to water and sanita-
tion." They are Committed to ensur-
ing that water is accessible, safe.
and affordable for all people. Learn
more at http:l/affordablewaternow.
orgl.

Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department, ?Trust Receipts and
Disbursements Worksheet: DWSD
Local System,? secured through a

51.

53.

55.

request to DWSD, submit-
ted November 2, 2017.

Provisions for periodic review of the
terms of the agreement are detailed
in the "Shared Services Agreement"
between the City of Detroit and
Great Lakes Water Authority. June
12, 2015, Section 5.04, Sec-
tion 5.07, 


ed-Part-1-O2-03-201 6.pdf.

See Triple Bottom Line Assess-
ment of Traditional and Green In-
frastructure Options for Controlling
030 Events in Philadelphia's
Watersheds," prepared by Stratus
Consulting for City of Philadel-

phia Water Department, 


delphia_bottomline.pdf.

Value of Water Campaign, The Eco-
nomic Benefits of Investing in Water
Infrastructure, Value of Water Cam-
paign. Available here, http://theval-

Economic%20lmpact%200f%20

structure_VOW_F  NAL_pages.pdf

For more on Green Infrastructure
projects underway in Detroit,

check out DWSD's website, http:/l

Departments-and-Agencies/Wa-
ter?and-Sewerage-Department/
Green-lnfrastructure-Projects. Also
see United States Environmental
Protection Agency. "Green Infra-
structure Targeting in Southeast
Michigan: An Outcome-based Stra-
tegic Planning Framework to Identify
and Evaluate Green Infrastructure
Opportunities," 


ing_report_01 1017_508.pdf.

. Joel Kurth, ?Detroit Shut Water

to 1 in 10 Homes this Year. Yes,
that?s Progress," Bridge: News

and Analysis from the Center for
Michigan, accessed online February
26, 2018, 


yes-thats-progress.

Katrease Stafford, ?Controversial
Water Shutoffs Could Hit 17,461
Detroit Households," Detroit Free
Press, March 26, 2018, 



56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

than-1 7-000-detroit-households-
risk-water-shutoffs/452801 002/.

Joel Kurth, ?Detroit Cites Progess,
but Water Shutoffs Actually Rose
Last Year," Bridge Magazine, May 2,
2017, 


actually-rose-last-year.

See ?Protestors Decry Detroit
Residential Water Shutoffs," Detroit
Metro Times, June 9, 2014, 




Deborah Weiner, "lnsurmountable
Bills Lead to Water Shutoffs in Balti-
more," WBALTV, February 13, 2017.
Accessed online on October 12,
2018 



Brett Walton, "Water News: When

the water is shutoff," Circle of Blue,
accessed online October 1, 2018,


world/water-shut-off/

Brett Walton, "Water News: When

the water is shutoff," Circle of Blue,
accessed online October 1, 2018,


world/water-shut-offl

Brett Walton, ?Water News: When

the water is shutoff," Circle of Blue,
accessed online October 1, 2018,


world/water-shut-off/

Brett Walton, "Water News: When

the water is shutoff," Circle of Blue,
accessed online October 1, 2018,


world/water-shut-off/

Brett Walton, ?Water News: When

the water is shutoff," Circle of Blue,
accessed online October 1, 2018,


world/water-shut-off/

Deborah Weiner, "lnsurmountable
Bills Lead to Water Shutoffs in Balti-
more," WBALTV, February 13, 2017.
Accessed online on October 12I
2018 



United Nations Human Rights
Office of the High Commissioner,
?Detroit Water Shut-Offs Target
the Poor, Vulnerable, and African
Americans," UNHCR News and
Events, October 20, 2014, http:/f


 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu

Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District

66.

67.

68.

Pages/ DisplayNews.aspx?News-

69.

United Nations Office of the High
Commissioner on Human Rights.
?Joint Press Statement by Special
Rapporteur on adequate housing
as a component of the right to an

adequate standard of living and to 70'

right to non-discrimination in this
context, and Special Rapporteur
on the human right to safe drinking
water and sanitation Visit to City

of Detroit (United States of Amer-
ica) 18-20 October 2014." http://
NewsEvents/

 D=15188&Lanng=E. United
Nations Human Rights Office of the
High Commissioner. "Statement on
Visit to the USA, by Philip Alston.
United Nations Special Rapporteur
on extreme poverty and human
rights." December 15. 201 Ac-
cessed September 2. 2018. 
lNewsEvents/
Pages]DisplayNewsaspx'PNews-
Report of the Special
Rapporteur on the human right to
safe drinking water and sanitation.
Catarina de Albuquerque, Mission
to the United State of America. Au-
gust 2. 2011. UN General Assem-
bly. Accessed August 23. 2018.

72-


Locations
that were visited by the Commis-
sioners that experienced various
kinds of water access barriers
included. among others. West Vir-
ginia. Puerto Rico. Alaska. Michigan.

and Alabama. '73.

See Barry M. Pomplom. Kristen E.
D'anci. and Irwin H. Rosenberg.
I'Water. Hydration. and Health." Nu-
trition Reviews 68. no. 8 (2010):
439-458; Paul R. Hunter. Alan M.

MacDonald. and Richard C. Carter. 74,

"Water Supply and Health." PLOS
Medicine 7. no. 11 (2010):
e1000361.

Alexander Plum. Kyle Moxley. and
Marcus Zervos. ?The Impact of
Geographical Water Shutoffs on
the Diagnosis of Potentially Wa-
ter-Associated Illness. with the Role

of Social Vulnerability Examined." 75.

Henry Ford Global Health Initiative.
April 8. 201 the abstract of the
study is available at http://wethe-



'71.

nessesReport201'7.pdf.

Martina Guzman. ?Exploring the
Public Health Consequences of
Detroit's Water Shutoffs." Model
Media. October 6. 2015. 

water-shut-offs-10061 5.aspx.

Jack P. Shonkoff. Andrew S. Garner.
Benjamin S. Siegel. Mary Dobbins.
Marian F. Earls. Laura McGuinnI
John Pascoe. and David L. Wood.
"The Lifelong Effects of Early Child-
hood Adversity and Toxic Stress."
produced by the Committee on
Aspects of Child and
Family Health. and Committee on
Early Childhood. Adoption. and De-
pendent Care. Pediatrics 129. no. 1
(2012): e232-e246; Hollie L. Jones.
William E. Cross Jr. and Darlene

C. DeFour. "Race-related Stress.
Racial Identity Attitudes. and Mental
Health among Black Women.? Jour-
nal of Black 33. no. 2
(2007): 208-231.

For more on social determinates of
health. see Kevin Fiscella and David
R. Williams. "Health Disparities
based on Socioeconomic Inequi-
ties: Implications for Urban Health
Care." Academic Medicine '79. no.
12 (2004): 1139-1147.

We the People of Detroit Commu-
nity Research Collective. "Mapping
the Water Crisis: The Dismantling
of African-American Neighborhoods
in Detroit: Volume One." available

to order online at http://wethe-

search/water].

Laura Gottesdiener. Officials
'Shocked' by Detroit?s Mass Water
Shutoffs." Aljazeera America. Oc-
tober 20. 2014. http://america.

detroit-water-un.html.

Detroit Water and Sewerage De-
partment. "Detroit Water and Sew-
erage Department Drainage Charge
Questions and Answers." accessed
February 26. 2018. http://detroit-

FAOO/o2O-0/o20Drainage0/o20



Elizabeth A. Mack and Sarah Wrase.
Burgecning Crisis? A Nation-
wide Assessment of the Geography
of Water Affordability in the United
States." One 12. no. 1 (2017):
e0169488. 

'76.

7'7.

'78.

80.

81.

83.


pone.0169488.

Forthcoming. Zarella. Rick and
Wendy Ake (2018) Measuring
Water Affordability: Alternative
place-based and current metrics.
Haas Institute for a Fair and Inclu-
sive Society.

Forthcoming. Zarella. Rick and
Wendy Ake (2018) Measuring
Water Affordability: Alternative
place-based and current metrics.
Haas Institute for a Fair and Inclu-
sive Society.

United States Environmental Protec-
tion Agency. 2016. "Drinking Water
and Wastewater Utility Customer
Assistance Programs." 


water-customer?assistance-pro-
grams.

Dana Kornberg. ?The Structural
Origins of Territorial Stigma: Water
and Racial Politics in Urban Detroit.
19503-20103." International Journal
of Urban and Regional Research
(2016): 267-8, 
wiley.com/doi/absl10.1 111/1468-
2427.1 2343.

Great Lakes Water Authority. "Cap-
ital Improvement Plan 2018-2022."
Version 1.1. November 29. 2016.


%3D&tabid=39.

United States vs. City of Detroit.
Doc 2528.
March 27. 2013I 

pdf.

While the original 1999 Rate Set-
tlement Agreement is not available.
its key tenets are outlined in the
?Shared Services Agreement"
between City of the Detroit and
GLWA. June 12. 2015. Attachment
2. "Agreement to Revise CSO Proj-
ect List." 


ed-Part-1-02-03-2016.pdf.

Because of the complexities of
system design of the DWSD and

its connections to suburban retail
customers and. in turn. the design
of the system within those areas.
there are not documented measures
to establish the degree to which
suburban systems add to the proba-
bility of over flows in Detroit's CSO.

 

haasinstitute.berkeley.ed 

Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District

Additionally. while the majority of
retail systems have separate san-
itary sewers. there are some retail
systems that are 080 and that
'part' of the system then makes use
of ?Detroit's" CSO management
structures. This document was able

to provide some analysis of the 35'

details of system design throughout
the region. However. a full analysis
is still needed to provide a clearer
appraisal of the mutual dependen-
cy and use between the DWSD.
DWSD-R. and other retail clients.

84. Carrie Sloan. ?How Wall Street

Caused a Water Crisis in America's
Cities: Vulnerable Residents are
Paying the Price for Dangerous
Financial Deals. The Nation. March
1 1. 2016. 


Darrell Preston. ?Detroit Shows
Wall Street Never Loses on

Bad Swaps: Municipal Credit."
Bloomberg. September 13. 2012.

articles/ 201 2-09-13/detroit-shows-

swaps-muni-credit.

 

haasinstitute.berkeley.edu

Water Equity and Security in Detroit?s Water Sewer District

{City of Detroit LIE

COUNCILMAN SCOTT R. BENSON

  

MEMORANDUM 

TO: David Whitaker, Director, LPD

 

FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 -.


CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President

DATE: 7 Feb 2019

RE: RESOLUTION SUPPORTING GOVERNOR 

ENVIRORNMENTAL EXECUTIVE ORDER

I am requesting LPD prepare a resolution supporting Governor Whitmer?s Executive
Order that creates a new Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy
from the current MDEQ. Please see the attached news story for further details.

Provide the resolution by 8 February 2018. If you have any questions do not hesitate to
contact my of?ce at, 313-224-1198

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224?1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

QEity of metruit 7

CITY COUNCIL
COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA loses

MEMORANDUM
TO: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy
CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones. Senior City Clerk
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones
DATE: February 12, 2019
RE: Revocable Insurance

 

Many small and minority demolition contractors are not able to afford bonding insurance to
bid on City of Detroit demolition contracts. Please provide a report detailing the process to
allow a 90-day revocable bonding insurance license for contractors that wish to bid on City
of Detroit demolition contracts. Please also draft a resolution urging a change in any state or
federal law required to allow the 90 day revocable bonding license.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Avenue . Suite 1340 Detroit. Michigan 43226
(313) 22-1-1245 Fax (313) 224-4095
I I:

MEMORANDUM

TO:

CC:

FROM:
DATE:

RE:

($in at EBetruit (48

an COUNCIC
COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA loses

David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy

Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk

Council President Brenda Jones
February 12, 2019

Resolution Request

Please draft a resolution urging the creation an intergovernmental task force on Marathon
Petroleum Detroit Re?nery and similar establishments to ensure a collaborative effort to
eliminate the health risks associated with the operations of the establishments.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit. Michigan 48226

(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 224-4095
I?m 1'

 

ditty of 

CITY 

 

JAMES E. TATE, Jr.
COUNCIL MEMBER

0 RA 
T0: Ron Brundidge
Director, Department of Public Works

FROM: Councilman James E. Tate, Jr. 
DATE: February 6, 2019
RE: Defective Sidewalk near 15507 Prest

 

In March of 2018, my of?ce submitted a memorandum to DPW regarding a
defective sidewalk in front of the DLBA property located at 15507 Prest. The
sidewalk was damaged in 2012 by contractors performing back?ll services after
the residential structure at the site was demolished. In May of 2018, DPW
submitted a response indicating that it had placed the address under the 2018
Demolitions Sidewalk Repair Contract.

However, my of?ce has recently been informed by the constituent who originally
reported the issue that the sidewalk has not been repaired as indicated. I am
requesting that DPW report back to my of?ce with an expected repair date and an
explanation for why the sidewalk was not repaired in 2018.

If you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact DeAndree
Watson of my of?ce at (313) 224-0278. Thank you in advance for your prompt
attention to this matter.

CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, City Clerk?s Of?ce
Saskia Thompson, DLBA
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

., .- -. .. p?u-w- r] . 
51? :Ftir, 21.5121 rm! . 

I.-

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1027 Fax (313) 224-0372


