PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437
PHONE. 313-224'4550

FAX 313-224-5505


   

CITY OF DETROIT
DEPARTMENT

January 31, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Proposed Ordinance to amend Chapter 4 of the 2018 Detroit City Code

Honorable City Council:

Pursuant to the request of Councilmember Benson, the above-referenced ordmance IS be1ng
submitted to Your Honorable Body for consideration. This proposed ordinance will amend
Chapter 4 of the 2018 Detroit City Code, Advertising by renaming the chapter to Advertising and
Signs and amending the chapter to consist of Article 1, Generally, Article 11, Distribution of
Handbills, Circulars, and Advertising Cards, Article Protection of Minors, Article IV,
Regulation of Business and Advertising Signs, to consist of Division 1, Generally, Division 2,
General Sign Standards, Division 3, Regulation of Business Signs, Division 4, Regulation of
Advertising Signs Outside of the Central Business District, Division 5, Regulation of Advertising
Signs In the Central Business District, Division 6, Signs in Right-of-Way, and Division 7,
Temporary Signs to provide for regulation of business and advertising signs throughout the City

of Detroit.
A copy of the ordinance, which has been approved as to form, is attached for your

consideration.
I look forward to discussing this important legislation with this Honorable Body



R/pect1ully Subniitted,_, -)

A

T/onja .Long
Senior Assistant Corporation Counsel

lit '3


'i?inclosure

 

SUMMARY

This proposed ordinance amends Chapter 4 of the 2018 Detroit City Code, Adneitii'ing, by
renaming the chapter to Advertising and Signs and amending the chapter to consist of Article I,
Generall Article II, Dietribntion W'Hanrlbilh, Circa/arr, and Adoertz'ting Cards, Article Protection ofMinore,
Article IV, Reign/Mien of Banner: and Adoertieing Sign; to consist of Division 1, Genera/l Division 2,
General Sign Standards, Division 3, Regulation of Bntinm Signe, Division 4, Regnl?ion of Advertising Sign:
Ontxide of tlae Central Banners? Dittriot, Division 5, Regulation (y?AdoertiJing In the Central Businm Dittriot,
Division 6, Sign: in Right-ccheyI, and Division 7, Temporaoz Signx, to provide for regulation of business
and advertising signs throughout the City of Detroit.

A18-08091 i 1-31?19

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE This proposed ordinance amends Chapter 4 of the 2018 Detroit City
Code, Adoertiring, by renaming the chapter to Advertising and Signs and amending the chapter to consist
of Article I, Genera/l Article 11, Distribution of Handbil/s, Circulars, and Advertising Cards, Article 
Protection ofMinors, Article IV, Regulation of Business andAduertisiqq Signs to consist of Division 1, Genera/l 
Division 2, General Sign Standards, Division 3, Regulation (yr Business Signs, Division 4, Regulation if
Advertising Signs Outside (ft/9e Central Business District, Division 5, Regulation ofAduertiriigg Signs In t/se Central
Business District, Division 6, Signs in &gbt-ty5Way, and Division 7, Temporagz Signs, to provide for
regulation of business and advertising signs throughout the City of Detroit.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:
Section 1. Chapter 4 of the 2018 Detroit City Code, Advertising, be renamed to Advertising and Signs,
and be amended to read as follows:
CHAPTER 4. ADVERTISING AND SIGNS

ARTICLE I. GENERALLY



 

A18-08091 1?3 1-19

REPEALED.

Sec. 4-1-1. Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter. the following, words and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Advertising sign means a sign that is intended to direct attention to a business, profession,
commodity, service, or entertainment. that is conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than on the
premises where the sign is located or that is only incidentally conducted, sold, or offered on the
premises where the sign is located.

Adi'crtisemcnIntentririttc property means a premises that is occupied by or used as any of

the following:

 

 

(I) A childcare center, which has the meaning as likewise defined in Section 50?16-
152 of this Code'
A child-caring institution, which has the meaning as likewise de?ned in Section

 

50-16?152 of this Code:

(3) A iuvenile detention or correctional facility, which means a county facility or
institution operated as an aecncy of the county or the iuvenile division of the
probate court. or a state institution or agency described in the Michigan Youth
Rehabilitation Services Act, being MCL 803.301 et seq., to which a minor has been
committed or in which a minor is detained;

(4) A library, which means any designated public depository of books, periodic?

gmblic andfor historical records, and other reference materials within the City that

A18-08091 1-31-19

f5}

(6)

(7)



(9)

AIS-08091

is created pursuant to Article Section 9, of the 1963 Michigan Constitution,
and is operated pursuant to Section 12 of the Michigan District Library
establishment Act. being MCL 3.97.182;

A park, which means land that is improved or intended to be improved for active
or passive recreational uses, or is preserved as open space, and is under the
iurisdiction and control of the City of Detroit, Wayne County, or the State of
Michigan;

A parklot, which means landscaped triangles, street entrances or remnant parcels
which have been landscaped for ornamental purposes, are generally dedicated for
these purposes in subdivision plats, are so designated, and are under the iurisdiction
and control of the City of Detroit, Wayne County, or the State of Michigan;

A parkway, which means a broad roadway bordered and often divided with
landscaped areas consisting of trees, plants, bushes, or grass. is so designated, and
is under the iurisdiction and control of the City of Detroit, Wayne CountyLor the

State of ichigan:

 

A play?eld, which means land that is designed For maior ?eld sports, such as
baseball. football. soccer. tennis, or softball, and which requires more area than is
available on a playground, is so designated, and is under the jurisdiction and control
of the City of Detroit, Wayne County, or the State of Michigan;

A playground, which means land that is designed and maintained primarily For the
recreational use of children aged up to 14 years and is under the iurisdiction and

control of the Citv of Detroit. Wayne County, or the State of Michigan;

1-31-19

{12)

(13)

A playlot, which means land that is designed and maintained primarily for the
recreational use ofsmall children aged up to eight years and is under the iuristliction
and control of the City of Detroit. Wayne County, or the State of Michigan;

A recreation center, which means a Facility that is created primarily to bene?t
minors through the use of organized educational, social, or recreational activities
and is under the iurisdictinn and control of the City of Detroit, Wayne County, or

the State of Michigan;

 

A schooL which means the buildinas. grounds. and other Facilities of any public.
charter, parochial. or private educational institution that has as its primary purpose
the education and instruction of children at the elementary, middle. iunior. and
senior high school levels; and

A youth activity center, which has the meaning as likewise de?ned in Section 50?

16-462 of this Code.

 

Alcoholic liquor means any spirituous, vinous, malt, or fermented liouor. liquids and

compounds, whether or not medicated. proprietary. patented or any other designation. which

contain one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volumebeverage, and

are defined and classified by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission according to alcoholic

content as being beer. wine, spirits. alcohol, sacramental wine, brandy, mixed wine drink. or miXed

spirit drink.

Animated Sign means a type of dynamic Sign in which the copy of the Sign depicts motion

or automatically changes copy more frequently?than once every eight seconds.

A18-08091

1-31-19

Arcade sign means a sign that is suspended underneath an awning, canopy, marquee,
overhang, or other element of a building or structure that forms a covered passageway for vehicles
or pedestrians.

Architectural feature means a part, portion. or projection. other than a sign, of a building
that contributes to its beauty, elegance, or architectural style. including, but not limited to: arches,
architectural grillwork; balconies; brackets; columns; corbels; cornices: dentils; doors; inscriptions
in stonework; iambs; lintels; masonry relief; medallions; moldings; pediments; pilasters: quoins;
sills; window rails; and windows. includingjlazings and surrounds.

Art mural means any image that is painted. proie_cted. drawn, tiled or similarly applied to
a building exterior, or to a material that will be mounted to the building exterior, and does not
contain the name, logo, brand. trademark or other commercial mark, or any other type of
commercial or branded message that is intended to direct attention to a business, profession,
commodity, service, or entertainment, regardless of where it is conducted, sold, or offered. An art
mural does not constitute either an advertising sign or a business sign.

Awning sign means a sign that is affixed to an awning or canopy. For purposes of this
definition, an awning or canopy is a structure consisting of cloth, plastic, sheet metal or similar
lightweight covering over a structural framework that is affixed to a building, and projects
therefrom, whether cantilevered from such buildingor supported by columns at additional points,
but is not a marquee.

Building frontage portion of the building?s facade that is visible as proiected
perpendicularly along any public street.

Business sign means a sign that is intended to direct attention to a principal business or

professional commodity, service, or entertainment that is conducted, sold or offered, on the

1-31-19

premises on which the sign is located. Identification signs and sponsorship signs are types of

business si Ins.

 

Central Business District means the portion of the Citv of Detroit within the area hounded
by the Detroit River, and the center lines of Brooklyn Avenue {extended}, West Jefferson Avenue,
Eighth Street, West Fort Street, Brooklyn Avenue, Porter Street, John C. Lodge Freeway 10),
Fisher Freewav (1-75), Third Street, West Grand River, Temple Avenue, Fourth Street, Charlotte
Street, Woodward Avenue, Fisher Freeway (1-75), Freeway (1-375), East Jefferson
Avenue, Rivard Street, Atwater Street, and Riopelle Street extended to the Detroit River. Copy
means the graphic or textual content or message displayed by a sign.

Department means the Building, Safetv Engineering, and Environmental Department of
the Citv of Detroit unless otherwise ex presslv stated in this Chapter.

Directional Sign means a sign that is intended to identify points of ingress or egress on the
premises, orient pedestrians and vehicles within the premises, or direct the flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traf?c throughout and around the premises.

Double-firm sign means a sign with two sign faces, both of which are used as signs, for
which the least angle of intersection between the sign faces does not exceed 90 degrees.

Dvnamic Sign means any sign that features:

Automated mechanical rotation, revolution, waving, ?apping, or other motion of

the sign face, the sign structure, or anv other sign component;

Automated changing of the sign?s eopv, at anv frequency, without the need to

manuallv remove and replace the sign face or its 

The displav of animated copv or other depiction of motion.

A18-08091 1?31-19

Externally illuminated sign means a type of illuminated sign that is illuminated by
re?ection from a source of artificial light that is not contained within the sign itself.

Freeway means as de?ned in Section 2 of the Michigan Highway Advertising Act of 1972,
being MCL 25130201).

reewav-adiacenr area means the area measured from the edge of the right-of-wav of a
freeway and extending 3.000 feet perpendicularly and then along a line parallel to the right-of-way
lini

Freer-rat! advertising sign means an advertising sign located in a freeway-adiaeent area, the
sign face of which is oriented toward and visible from the freewaL

Ground sign means a sign that is freestanding and is supported by one or more structural
uprights. poles, hraees? frames, or solid Foundations that rest in or upon the ground. Monument
signs and pole signs are types of ground signs.

Heritage sign means an unilluminated painted sign, either an advertising sign or business
sign that has tween obsolete since a date not later than January 2005. and is registered with the
Department as such.

High?density nonresidential property means any parcel utilized for non?customer oriented
commercial purposes with no onsite retail component, any parcel utilized for industrial or
manufacturing purposes, any parcel utilized for a sports stadium or arena, a museum. theater or

other cultural institution, a convention center, or a casino. and all parcels located within the Central

Business District.

High?density residential/ntired use property means any premises located outside of the

Central Business District. utilized for residential or residential/commercial mixed?use purposes

1-31-19

containing more than 16 dwelling units or any premises utilized for customer-oriented commercial

retail or loses.

     

Identi?cation sign means a type of business sign that is intended to identifv a principal
business or profession conducted on the premises where the sign is located.

Illuminated Sign means a sign for which an arti?cial source of light is used in order to make
readable the sign?s copy. illuminated signs are either internally illuminated or externallv
illuminated.

Internallv illuminated Sign means a type of illuminated sign that is illuminated by direct
emission through a transparent or translucent material component of the sign from a source of
arti?cial light that is contained within the sign itself. including any sign for which the sign face is
substantiallv composed of luminescent paint or other such material.

residential propertr means anv residential premises utilized for single family,
two-family, or residential purposes containing no more than four dwelling units. all
located outside of the Central Business District.

Marquee Sign means a sign that is affixed to and supported by a marquee. For the purposes
of this de?nition, a marquee is a permanent roof-like shelter constructed of wood. steel. glass, or
other durable materials that is supported bv and extends from a building facade and is cantilevered
without support at additional points over a point of ingress and egress to the building. Marquee
signs are distinct from both proiectingsigns and wall signs.

Medium-density residential/mixed use proper?! means any premises utilized for multi-
family residential purposes containing no fewer than five and no greater than 16 dwelling units,
and any premises utilized for residential/commercial mixed-use purposes up to 16 dwelling units,

all located outside the Central Business District.

AIS-08091 1-31-19

Minor means an individual under 18 years of age.

Monument Sign means a type of ground sign that is supported primarily by an internal
structural framework concealed in an opaque covering or solid structural foundation.

Motion means the depiction of movement or change of position of copv and includes, but
is not limited to, dissolving and Fading test and images travelling, running, sequential test, graphic
bursts, lighting that resembles zooming, twinkling or sparkling, changes in light or color, transitory
bursts of light intensitv, moving patterns or bands of light, expanding or contracting shapes, or anv
similar Visual effects.

Mum-building campus means a premises that contains multiple buildings. structures. and
other facilities that are interconnected by a series of private roads, nathwavs, open spaces. and
other internal networks, all of which are utilized for a single common purpose. such as multi-
building universities. hospitals. or cultural institutions.

Multiple-face sign means a sign with three or more sign faces.

Obsolete sign means a sign that is intended to direct attention to a business. profession,
commoditv servicmr entertainment that is no longer available for purchase or patronage.

Orientation means, for anv sign face, wall, facade, or other two-dimensional surface. the
direction of a horizontal projection of the line that is perpendicular to such surface.

Pointed sign means a sign that is painted upon a wall or other exterior surface ol? a building
or structure and is not an art mural.

Permit means a permit issued by the Department for the construction or erection of a new
sign, or the alteration ol? an existing sign, under the authoritv provided in Chapter 8 of this Code,

unless otherwise expresslv stated in this Chapter.

A18-08091 1-31?19

Pole Sign means a type of ground sign that is supported by one or more exposed uprights,
poles, or braces that rest in or upon the ground, with air space between the ground and the sign


Portable sign means a sign that is designed to be moved easily and that rests upon, but is
not permanently affixed, to the ground.

Premises means a parcel or collection parcels and adioining property that are generally
under common ownership, whether publicly or privately owned, constituting a single building,
structure, or development, including private streets, pathways, and other open spaces but excluding
public rights-ol-way.

Premises frontage means the sum of the length of all lot lines of the parcel abutting any
public street.

Projecting sign means a sign that. is affixed to and supported by any exterior wall or parapet
of a building or structure, and proiects outward from such wall or parapet with the orientation of
the sign face or faces being in a direction that is approximately perpendicular to the orientation of
the facade of the wall or parapet. Proiecting signs do not include marque-c signs.

Raceway sign means a type of wall sign in which individual letters. graphics, and other
copy elements are separate structural components that are connected by a common component.
referred to as a raceway, which provides structural support for, and electrical or mechanical
operation of, the sign.

Roof line means the uppermost line of the roof of a building or in the case of an extended
facade or parapet, the uppermost point of said Facade or parapet.

Roof si gn means a sign that is affixed to and supported by the roof of a building or structure,

the height of which extends above the highest point of the roofline ot' the building or structure.

10
A18-08091 1-31-19

Sign means any structure containing a Visual display. or painted or proiected image, that is

oriented toward and visible from any public or private right-of?way or public property and is

intended to announce, identify. inform or direct attention. A sign can be located on the exterior of

a building or other structure or in the interior of a building if within three feet of the building?s

perimeter and visible from the building?s exterior. For purposes of this chapter, sign does not

include:

(ii

(5)



(7)

(8)



A18-08091

Any display that is painted on or otherwise affixed to a currently registered motor
vehicle that is used for transportation purposes in the normal course ol'operation of

a business or other establishment:

 

Window displays of actual merchandise for sale;

Displays that are carried on or by a person:

Any notice alerting the public ol?the presence of an alarm, security, or surveillance
system;

Any notice warning against. trespassing, soliciting, or other interference with the
property owner?s cnioyment of their property:

Alerts, announcements, warning, and other notices as may he required by
applicable federal, state or local law for protection of the public peace. health.
safety, and welfare;

Building numbers that are not more than 12 inches in height and are displayed in
accordance with Section 4332? I 2 of this Code:

Public service announcements promoting the protection of the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare;

Displays of official governmental, court or public agency orders or notices;

11
1-31-19

(10) Displays of the flags, emblems, or official insignia of a national, state, or local

political unit or any of its departments or agencies;

t] 1 Alt murals; and

Architectural and other lighting that is operated in accordance with the lighting

standards set forth in this Code.

Sign alteration means a change of the size, shape, area, height, location, illumination,
dynamic operation, construction. fabrication, material, or any other dimensional. operational or
construction?related or dimensional parameter of an existing sign. Neither the maintenance of a
sign within its existing dimensional, operational, and construction?related and dimensional
parameters, nor a change or replacement of the copy a sign, without any other change to the sign
constitutes a sign alteration.

Sign area means the area of the sign face of a sign, expressed in terms of square feet.

Sign clearance means the elevation of the lowest point of the Sign above the established
grade at the base of or directlv below the sign.

Sign face means the surface of a sign upon which the copy of the sign is displayed.

Sign height means the elevation of the highest point of the sign, including its frame and
support structure, above the established grade at the base of. or directly below, the sign.

sign means a type of business sign that is intended to identify? an individual or
entitv that does not conduct, sell, or offer its business, profession, commodity, sewiee, or
entertainment on the premises where the sign is located but has pledged its long-term support,

whether financial or in-kind to:

 

The premises on which the sign is located;

A de?ned portion of the premises on which the sign is located; or

12
A18-08091 1?31?19

principal corntnoditv, service, activity, or entertainment sold or offered at the

premises on which the sign is located.

Temporarv .rign means a sign that is intended to direct attention to a specific date, event.
milestone, occurrence, or other type of specific occasion, taking place on the premises on which
the sign is located, for a limited period of time in advance of or during such occasion.

Tobacco product means any cigarette, cigar, non?cigarette smoking tobacco, or smokeless
tobacco as de?ned in Section 2 of the Michigan Tobacco Products Tax Acts, being MCL 205.422.

Wall Sign means a sign that is affixed to and supported bv or painted or proiected upon the
exterior wall or parapet of a building or structure, with the orientation of the Sign facc oriented in
a direction that is approximately parallel to the orientation of the facade of the wall or parapet.
Wall signs do not include marquee signs.

Window Sign means a sign that is:

Affixed to, or painted on an exterior window of a building or structure but does not

completely cover or conceal the window; or

Located in the interior of a building or structure within three Feet of its perimeter

and is oriented toward and is visible from the exterior of the building or structure.



F+H+ent?. REPEALED.

 

Sec. 4-1-2. Misdemeanor 1riolation; aiding and altetting violation: continuing violation;
penalties for conviction thereof.
It shall be unlawful for anv person to Violate any provision of this article or to aid

and abet another to violate such provision.

13
A18-08091 1-31-19

Anv person who violates this article, or aids and abets another to violate such
provision. mav be issued a misdemeanor violation For each day that the violation continues.

Any person who is found guiltv of violating anv provision of this chapter, or aids
and abets another to violate such provision, shall be convicted of a misdemeanor for each violation

that is issued and, in the discretion of the court. min,r be fined up to $500.00 and sentenced up to

90 days in iail, or both, for each misdemeanor violation that is issued.

 

14
A18-08091 1?3 1-19

REPEALED.

 

Sec. 4-1-3. Enforcement.

This article shall be enforced by the Police Department.

 

REPEALED.

Sec. 4-1-4. Posting of advertising materials on public or private pronertv.

It shall be unlawful for any person to af?x. fasten. post, paint, or otherwise place anv
advertisement. placard. poster. sign or other advertising material of any kind upon anv public or
private property/1 or cause or authorize the same to be done, without the authorization of the owner
thereof. or its agent. provided that this section does not applv to a public officer or employee in

the performance of a public duty or a private person giving a legal notice.

 

REPEALED.

15
AIS-08091 1-31-19

See. 4-1-5. Carrying or placing advertising materials on freewayr overpass where visible from
freewavprohihited.

It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or place on any freeway overpass any
advertisement, placard, poster, sign, or any other advertising material that would be oriented
towards and visible to the occupants of vehicles in such freeway.

Subsection of this section does not apply to any advertisement, placard, poster,
sign, or any other advertising material that is intended to facilitate or regulate the flow of vehicular
traf?c within the freeway or to identify points ol? potential interest to occupants of vehicles within
the freeway.

Subsection of this section does not apply to any advertisement, placard, posteL
sign, or any other advertising material for which the City Council has given authority to he so
carried or placed.

REPEALED.
Sec. 4-1-6. Publication of false, misleading advertising prohibited.

It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to solicit, promote, sell, lease, loan,

 

or Otherwise dispose of any event, commodity, service, security, real or personal property, or any
other thing of value. to circulate, distribute, disseminate, publish, or broadcast, or to cause the
same, any advertisement, placard, poster, sign, handhill, leaflet, circular, advertising card, or other
advertising material, whether printed or otherwise recorded. concerning such thing of value that

contains any assertion, representation, claim, offer, or statement of fact that is knowingly false,

 

deceptive, misleading, or otherwise calculated to cause iniury or other disadvantage to its audience

or any member thereof.

 

16
A18-08091 1-31-19

Subsection of this section does not apply to any owner, publisher, printer, agent
or employee of a newspaper, periodical. circular. radio or television station, or website who. in
good faith and without knowledge of the false, deceptive, or misleading character thereof,
publishes, causes to be published, or takes part in the publication of such advertising material.
Sec. 4-1-7. Presumptions concerning identity of violator.

With respect to the placement of anv advertisement, placard, poster, sign or other
advertising, material, or to the distribution of anv handbill, lea?et, circular, or advertising card. that
violates anv provision of this chapter. a rebuttabie presumption exists that the placement or
distribution of such material is made with the consent. ot'the promoter of the business, profession.
commodity, service. or event that is the subiect of the promotion bv the material regardless of its

Sec. 4-1-8. Severabilitv.

Where anv article, division, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or phrase of this
chapter is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent iurisdiction, for any reason,

the remaining: portions of this article shall not be affected. It is expressly declared that this chapter

 

and each article. division, section, subsection. paragraph. sentence, and phrase herein would have

 

been adopted regardless of the fact that one or more other portions of this chapter would be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Secs. 4-1-9 4-1-30. Reserved.

17
AIS-08091 1-31-19

ARTICLE II. DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS, CIRCULARS,
AND ADVERTISING CARDS
Sec. 4-2-1. Misdemeanor violation; continuing violation; penalties for conviction thereof.

It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this article or to aid
and abet another to violate such provision.

Any person who violates this article, or aids and abets another to violate such
provision, may be issued a misdemeanor violation for each day that the violation continues.

Any person who is found guilty of violating any provision of this article shall be
convicted of a misdemeanor for each violation that is issued, and, in the discretion of the court,
may be ?ned up to $500.00 and sentenced up to 90 days in jail, or both, for each misdemeanor
violation that is issued.

Sec. 4-2-2. Enforcement.

 

This article shall be enforced by the Police Department.
Sec. Interfering with or impeding pedestrian or vehicular traf?c, prohibited.
Ne?peesea?shail It shall be unlawful for any person to circulate. distribute, circulate?g

disseminate give?aw or t_o cause the same to be circulated; gr distributed Bt?giyeH?away any

 

paper handbill, leaflet, circular, advertising card, book, pamphlet or other printed matter soliciting

trade?euntemeh?et?pauens any event. commodity, service, or other thin},T of value en?any?publie

 
 

in any public rightuuf-way, so as to interfere with or impede any

 

t!

pedestrian, bicycle, or vehicular traf?c along

 

within such right-oi-wny.

 

18
A18-08091 1-31-19

Sec. 4-2-5. Brehi?hited Solicitation at posted residential premises prohibited.
Ne?perseneshall 11 shall be unlawful for any person to solicit, deliver, circulate, distribute,
or disseminate or t_o cause te?he?elistribateel; the same, any circular, handbill, advertising card or
any other advertising material to any residential premises upon which is conspicuously posted a_t
or near the front entrance of the residence a notice that states ?No Trespassing,? ?No Handbills,?

?Post No Bills? or any similar language. Seeb?a?Heaee-s 

 

Secs. 4-2-5 4-2-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE PROTECTION OF MINORS AGAINST ADVERTISEMENT AND

PROMOTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Sec. 4-3-1. Purpose.

The primary purpose of this article is to promote the welfare and temperance of
minors who are exposed to certain publieally My visible advertisements of alcoholic liquor
or tobacco products as defined in Section 4?3?2 of this Code, Whereas?predate within
the City, and to promote compliance with state laws and this Code which prohibit the use and
consumption of alcoholic liquor and tobacco products by 

The findings to support this article have been delineated in a resolution adopted by
the City Council on July 7, 1989, and placed in the Journal of the City Council on Pages 1959
through 1963.

WEBB:

19
AIS-08091 1?3 1-19

A18-08091

20

 

1-31-19

AIS-08091

21

 

1-31-19

A18-08091

22

 

1-31-19

A18-08091

23

 

1-31-19

1-31-19

AIS-08091

25

 

1?31-19

A18-08091

26

 

1-31-19

age El; lhlli 
ii, I L-IEEI. a:I?i Eleflille?fl ill St} i?i 3%;5 Ear Elii?n" gEi661

 

REPEALED.
Sec. 4-3-2. Misdemeanor violation; continuing violation; penalties for conviction thereof.

It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this article.

Any person who violates this article may be issued a misdemeanor violation for
each day that the violation continues.

(0) Any person who is found guilty of violating any provision of this article shall be
convicted of a misdemeanor for each violation that is issued, and, in the discretion of the court,
may be ?ned up to $500.00 and sentenced up to 90 days in jail, or both, for each misdemeanor
violation that is issued.

Sec. 
for Enforcement.

This article shall be enforced by the Buildings, Safety Engineering, and Environmental
Department.

Sec. 4-3-5. Advertisement of alcoholic liquor and tobacco products prohibited within a
1,000-foot radius of certain locations.

Ne?pemen?shall It shall be unlawful lo advertise any alcoholic liquor on an

 

advertising Sign within a 1,000-foot radius of any 

I. .1 . ?Hat"
advertisemcnt-sensitivc property.

 
  

 

27
A18-08091 1-3 1-19

No?pevson?shal-l It shall be unlawful to advertise any tobacco product on an

advertising sign within a 1,000?foot radius r1311. 'flel-e

 
 

'advertisement?sensitive properly.

 

Sec. Exceptions to prohibitions.

The provisions of Section 4?64 4-3-4 of this Code shall not apply to:

 

28
A18-08091 1-31?19

(1) Any advertising sign that is adjacent to an interstate highway, freeway, or primary
highway system within the City, and is regulated by the Michigan Highway
Advertising Act of 1972, being MCL 252.301 et seq.

(2) Any advertising sign which advertises alcoholic liquor insideeliepeut?side 

located on the premises of a convention facility, sports arena, or stadium.

 

Sec. 4-3-Q. Method for measurement.

The spacing between an advertising sign which advertises alcoholic liquor or tobacco
products and an advertisement-sensitive
property shall be measured radially as the shortest distance between the outermost point of the

advertising sign that is nearest to the advertisement-sensitive property and the nearest?let?line?ef

 

point on the perimeter of the premises containing.

 

the advertisement-sensitive property.

Sec. 4-3-1. Phase-out period.

In the event a new 
their??! B'ii'i?i?l'r??l'irut'iit, lai'ifrifiEi'Ei, Iai'ii'iBE, 
eager?99W - - 'advertisement-seamtive property is established; subsequent

to the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived, and is located within a

 

1,000-foot radius of an advertising sign lawfully advertising alcohol or tobacco products, said
advertising shall not be ordered removed until 60 days after date
of such establishment.

Sec. 4-3-30. Reserved.

29
A18-08091 1-31-19

ARTICLE IV. REGULATION OF BUSINESS AND ADVERTISING SIGNS
DIVISION I. GENERALLY
Sec. 4-4-1. Purpose.

The sign regulations of this article are intended to balance public and private interests. The
purpose of this article is to promote provide for a safe, well-maintained, vibrant and attractive City
while accommodating the protected rights of individuals and entities need?tei?sigas to inform,
direct, identify, advertise, advocate, promote, endorse, and otherwise communicate information
through signs, among multiple alternative channels for communication. The regulations contained
in this article are narrowly tailored to serve multiple signi?cant governmental interests, including
those listed in this section. In furtherance of these significant governmental interests, this article
regulates various structural and dimensional standards of signs, including their construction,
material, area, height, proieetion, illumination, location, and spacing, as well as their use and
operation in speci?ed locations, but does not regulate the message, content. or communicative

aspect of signs or distinguish between commercial and noncommercial speech. Itllihile?these

 

(1) General profor'rtmt trel?nre: To ensure that signs are located, designed,

constructed, installed, and maintained?nawafyethat and operated so as to protect

 

 

preteeEs?li?fe; and preserve the nuhlic peace, health, meals; safety, and 1mpeH?y?emel
ehe?p?dblie welfare of the people of the City of Detroit;
(2) Public safety: To protect public health and safety by prohibiting signs that are

structurally unsafe or poorly maintained; 1 that cause unsafe traffic conditions

30
A18-08091 1-31-19

AIS-08091

- 

 

for nearhv pedestrians, motorists, and properties. Signs that are
poorlv maintained or are otherwise structurallv unsound pose physical dangers to
the surrounding area and its occupants. Signs can be confused with traffic signals
or impede clear roadwav sightlines, thereby, creating unsafe conditions for
motorists. bicyclists, pedestrians, and others traveling along the public right?of?
wav. Signs that overlv encroach into public spaces through inappropriate sizing.
proiection. elevation, illumination among other aspects of their construction or
operation can impede the safe circulation of pedestrians, including their sale ingress
and egress from buildings and other structures;

Neighborhood aesthetics and

To Prevea

 

 

 
   

metal?areas protect aesthetic values of the City?s neighborhoods and

t:

 

natural environments. The itv?s neighborhoods are characterized bv their unique
residential. commercial, and industrial uses, their architectural themes, and their
historic legacies. Signs that do not coinpolt with such unique characteristics can
significantly impair the surrounding neighborhood?s aesthetic value. Moreover,
many of the Citv?s neighborhoods contain outdoor public recreational spaces and
natural environments. Signs that overlv encroach upon such spaces tltrough their
construction or operation can significantly impede access to public outdoor

recreation opportunities and undermine protection of the natural environment:

31
1?31-19

(4)

(5)

(6)

A18-08091

 

of protracted speech: To 

 
   

. .
eemmunieatiea facilitate the conveyance of constitutionally protected speech
through the use of signs as a means of communication;

Reduction ofcrm?ic'r: To 

 

 

reduce the potential for con?ict

 

between?pt
among signs, building, and other structures that seek to occupy, utilize. or access
limited light, air. and open space resources. Signs that are excessive in size. scale.
or intensity can interfere with other signs, thereby impairing their conununicative
value. Such signs can also interfere with neighboring buildings' access to air and
natural light. and can interfere with their safe operation and the activities of their

occupants; and

Business identification and promotion of imrui To a-l-lew?Foe?aelequate

 

facilitate the identification of businesses and to promote local commerce at such

places of business. Signs that effectively identify the presence of local businesses
and that promote the products and services provided by such businesses can
facilitate commercial activity and stimulate economic development. Conversely,
signs that are excessive in size. scale or intensity, or that con?ict with each other or

their surroundings can impede such business identification and hinder local

economic activity.

32
1-31?19

A18-08091

33

 

1-31-19

AIS-08091

34

 

1?31-19

REPEALED.

Sec. 4-4-2. Blight violation.

In accordance with Section 41(4) of the Michigan Homc Rule Cinr Act, being MCL
1741(4) and Sections l?l?9(ttJ(3] and 3?2?1 of this Code. t1 Violation of this article is deemed to

be at blight 1violation.

 

35
A18-08091 1?31-19

Anv person who violates anv section of this article mav be issued a blight violation
notice pursuant to Chapter 3 of this Code. Administrative Hearings and Enforcement, and
Administrative Appeals, for each ?aw that the violation continues.

In accordance with Chapter 3 of this Code, Administrative Hearings and
Enforcement. and Appenis, anv person who admits responsibility or is Found to be
[monsiblen through a blight violation determination, for violation of this article shall be subieet

to a civil ?ne.



 

whnen?t-haHHsaueel? REPEALED.
Sec. 4-4-3. Enforcement.

This article shall be enforced bv the Buildings. Safetv Engineering. and Environmental

Department.


Foeent??ereement:

 

Deemtmenh REPEALED.

36
A18-08091 1-31?19

Sec. 4-4-4. Nancommercial messages.

In order to prevent any inadvertent favoring: of commercial speech over noncommercial
speech, or t'avorinJ-ar of any particular noncommercial message over any other noncommercial
message, any sign that is allowed under this Article mav contain. in lieu ol? any other message. any
otherwise lawful noncommercial message which does not direct attention to a business, profession.

commodity. service. or entertainment, and which complies with all applicable standards of this

Chagter.

 

37
A18-08091 1-3 1-19

A18-08091

38

 

1-31-19

bulti."5' .-

when?aeHA-umasraeed: REPEALED.
Sec. 4-4-5. Commuting sign area. height, and clearance.

The area of a sign is computed as follows:

(I) In general, the area ofa sign is the entire area of a square, rectangle or other regular
geometric figure that reasonably contains the entire sign face and all copy of the
sign. Blank spaces between individual ?gures, letters, words, graphics. and other
elements of a sign?s copy are included in the computation of the sign?s area. If the
sign is enclosed in a frame or case, the area of a sign includes the area of the frame
0r case.

The area of a double?face sign is the area of the largest of the two sign faces.

The area of a multiple?face sign is the sutn of the areas of each sign face of the sign.

The height of a sign is computed as the difference in vertical elevation between the

highest point of the Sign, including its frame and sunport structure, and the established grade at the

 

base of} or directly below, the sign.

The clearance of a sign is computed as follows:

39
A18-08091 1?3 1-19

(3)

t4)

AIS-08091

In general, the clearance of a sign is computed as the difference in vertical elevation
between the lowest point of the sign, including its frame and support structure, if
anv, and the established grade underneath the Sign.

The clearance of a ground sign is computed as the difference in vertical elevation
between the lowest point of the sign face, including its frame but not excluding its

pole, monument, or other support structure, and the established grade at the base of

 

the sign.

The clearance of a sign under which vehicular or pedestrian passage is possible,
such as arcade signs and proiecting signs, is computed as the difference in vertical
elevation between the lowest point of the sign face, including its frame and support
structure, if anv, under which clear passage is possible, and the established grade
underneath the sign.

The clearance of a sign that is affixed to and supported by a building or other
structure such as wall signs and proiecting signs is computed as the difference in
vertical elevation between the lowest point of the sign face, ineludingils frame and
support structure, if anv, but excluding the building or structure to which the sign

is af?xed and supported, and the established grade underneath the sign.

 

4O
1-31-19

REPEALED.
Sec. 4-4-6. Computing the measurement of spacing.

Unless Specified otherwise. for the purposes of this Article. spacing is computed either

radially or linearly.

(1) Radial spacing between two points is computed as the length of the shortest straight
line connecting the perimeters of the premises at which each point is respectively
located. drawn without regard to any propertv lines. rights of way, or other features,
whether natural or constructed, that such line may cross.

(2) Linear spacing between two points is computed as the length ol? the shortest line
connecting the perimeters ol' the premises at which each point is respectively
located. following the centerlines ol' the rights of way abutting the premises,
without regard to the side of the right-of-way on which each such premises may be

located.

41
A18-08091 1?3 1-19

1?31?19

REPEALED.

Sec. 4-4-7. Prohibited signs.

The following signs are prohibited City?wide. unless expresslv allowed in this Chapter:



t6}

AIS-08091

Signs that substantially cover or conceal any architectural feature of a building;
Signs that wrap two or more facades of a building or structure:

Signs that are illuminated by or otherwise equipped with a strobe or flashing light;
Signs that are affixed to, painted on, or otherwise supported by any rock, tree, or

other natural feature;

 

Sinus that are affixed to painted on. or otherwise supported by a fence or screening
wall; or

Si that produce sound, cause interference with radio, telephone. television, or
other communication transmissions; that produce or re?ect motion pictures, except
where authorized as animated signs; or that emit visible smoke, vapors. particles,

or odors.

43
1-31-19

A18-08091

44

 

1-31-19

A18-08091

45

 

1-31-19

A18-08091

46

 

1?31-19

A18-08091

47

 

1-31-19

REPEALED.

Sec. 4-4-8. Maintenance required.

All signs must be maintained in good repair and clear of debris.

 

Anv Sign that is not

maintained in good repair shall he ild?qtl?l?iv repaired, replaced. or removed, along with its l'rame

and supporting structure. A sign is not considered to be in good repair if the sign is:



A18-08091

Weathered or faded;
Ripped, torn, cut, cracked, tattered, or damaged;

Defaced or otherwise marked with graffiti:

48

1-31-19

(6)

(7)

Insecurelv or inadequately af?xed or anchored to the wall, parapet, rool", marquee,
awning, or ground to which it is attached or placed;

Supported by one or more poles, pylons, bracing, rods, supporting frameworks.
foundations, anchorages, or other supports, that are broken, damaged, or otherwise
unsound or of inadequate eapaeiw:

Cracked or peeled if painted; or

lnoperalive or otherwise broken or damaged it? illuminated. dynamic, or otherwise

electrified.

 
 

 



AIS-08091

 

49
1-31-19

lite, a! ehaiq ge ei? Ear I?lqit 

 

 

   

on . . REPEALED
See. 4?4-9. Obsolete signs to he removed.

Anv obsolete sign. alone with its frame and supporting structure: shall be removed
by the owner of the premises on which sign is located, or its agenL within 30 davs all-[er becoming
obsolete, except for obsolete teinporarv signs. which shall be removed within 24 hours after
becoming obsolete. An obsolete painted sign may be considered to be removed if it is removed so
as to expose the underlyingr unpainted surface or is completely painted-over.

Subsection of this section shall not applv to any heritage sign.

5 p- .

 

 

50
1-31-19

Sec. 4-4-10. Siggon vacant buildings to be removed.

Any sign af?xed to, or posted, painted, or otherwise placed on a building or
structure that is a vacant building, as defined in Section 8-15?9 of this Code, shall, along with its
frame and supporting structure, be removed hr the owner of the premises on which sign is located,
or its agent, within 30 days after the building or structure becomes vacant. Enforcement of this
section shall he in accordance with the granted under Section 8-15?45 of this Code.

Subsection of this section shall not applv to am heritage sign.


51
AIS-08091 1-31?19

Willi-ll? IIHEEFIIEJF Hi: .1 11.3 the
E?EEBHBi-eHhe-h?-l-i-Ei-l-Hg- REPEALED.

Sec. 4-4-11. Unused Sign supports to be removed.

All poles, pylons, bracing, rods, supporting t?t'an'teworks. Foundations, anchorages. or other
supports, including all associated electrical wiring, for any Sign that does not have a permitted Sign
face shall he removed by the owner of the premises where the are located. or its agent,
within 30 days after written notice to remove such supports.

3965?4-4424-4-40?Re5eeved? REPEALED.

52
A18-08091 1-31?19

Sec. 4~4-12. Signs subject to additional governmental jurisdiction: submission of approvals
as part of sign application
If a sign is subiect to the iurisdiction of any federal, state. or local governmental agency or
authority in addition to the Department, the applicant for erection of the sign shall, as part of the
application. provide copies of all other governmental approvals that may be required for the sign.
If such other approvals are subject to any conditions of approval. or other standards, then such
standards shall be incorporated by reference into the permit. Those standards lhat are con'iparahle
and more restrictive than the standards set forth in this Chapter shall supersede and shall he
considered controlling under the permit. No standards imposed by other governmental agencies
that are less restrictive than the standards set forth in this Chapter may relieve any obligation to
adhere to the standards set forth herein. Other governmental agencies with iurisdiction over signs
include, without limitation:
Signs located within an historic district as identified in Chapter History, of this
Code are subject to approval by the Historic District Commission.
Signs located within iurisdiction of the State of Michigan are suhieet to approval
E: the Michigan Department of Transportation.
Signs located within a City?controlled public right-of way are subject to approval
by the City of Detroit Department of Public Works.
Sec. 4-4-13. Signs located near freeways: Department of Public Works approval required.
Any Sign that is located within the greater of 125 feet of the edge of the traveled roadway
of any freeway or interchange ramps between freeways used by traffic facing the display side of
such sign or structure, or 25 feet of the right~of?way line of any freeway. and is oriented toward

and is visible From vehicles traveling on the freeway or interchange ramp, is suhiect to approval

53
A18-08091 1?31?19

the Department of Public Works Traffic Engineering Division. For each such sign. the
Department of Public Works Traffic Engineering Division shall not approve the sign if. in its
mnion. the tign would create a visual distraction or other potential hazard to vehicular traffic
traveling on the freeway or interchange ramp.

Sec. 4-4-14. Sign alteration to require new permit.

It shall be unlawful to perform anv sign alteration without having first been issued a permit
for such sign. Anv sign alteration of an existing permitted sign shall require a new permit.
Sec. 4-4-15. Transition.

In order to enable and facilitate the ef?cient and effective administration.
management. and enforcement of the regulations of this Chapter and to encourage the voluntarv
and intentional transition by permittees from sign regulations that are no longer in effect.
commencing on the effective date of the ordinance establishing this section:

111 No permit for the construction or erection of any new sign. or the alteration ol?anv
existing sign. mav be issued unless all signs located on the same premises as the
sign that is subiect of the permit are in compliance with the regulations of this
chapter.

(1) As part of its voluntarv submission of an application for a permit [or the erection
of a new sign, or alteration of an esistin sign. the applicant shall clearly indicate
in writing. on a form provided bv the Department. the desire of the owner of the

premises on which the sign is sought to be located to intentionally. knowingly. and

 

voluntarilv relinquish. disclaim. and abandon all existing permits. licenses. and

 

other approvals issued under authoritv of Chapter 50 of this Code for all signs of

 

anv tvpe located on the same meniises.

54
AIS-08091 1?3 1-19

sign that is permitted and otherwise in compliance with all applicable regulations
of this IChapter shall be exempted from compliance with comparable regulations set
forth in anv other chapter of this Code that may be more restrictive than those
contained in this Chapter.

Subsections and of this section shall not applv to anv sign that is
gained to be erected or altered by law or legal order, such that the permit

application is not submitted intentionallv, knowinglv. and voluntarilv.

Sec. 4-4-16. Waivers and adiustments to sign standards.



On petition. the Director of the Department, or their designee. may waive or adiust

any dimensional or operational standard or other requirement set forth in this article, except as

otherwise limited or prohibited. upon finding that such waiver or adiustment satisfies all of the

following:
LL)

(3)



That, without the requested waiver or adiustment, the sign would be subject to one
or more practical difficulties that would substantiallv hinder the communicative
potential ot'the sign;

That the requested waiver or adiustment would effectivelv eliminate all practical
difficulties referenced in Subsection of this section:

That the requested waiver or adiustment is necessary to address all practical
difficulties referenced in Subsection (ajt'l of this section. as no form of alternative
?gnage in accordance with this Chapter could cffectivelv eliminate all such
mtical difficulties;

That the requested waiver or adiustment will not have a detrimental effect on the

privacv, light. or air of the premises or neighboring premises;

55
1-31?19

(5) That the requested waiver or adiustment will not substantiallv affect the use or
development of the subiect premises or neighboring premises:

That the requested waiver or adiustment will not substantiallv impair. detract from,
or otherwise affect the aesthetic value of the subiect premises or neighboring
premises;

That the. requested adjustment will not in anv wav increase the potential for
distraction to. obstruct the ?ow of. or otherwise harm pedestrians or motor vehicles
passing within view of the sign: and

The comprehensive sign plan for the subiect premises. submitted as part of the
application for the waiver or adiustment, is in general accord with the spirit and
intent of the regulations set forth in this Chapter.

(bl The specific terms and conditions of any waiver or adjustment granted under this
section shall be incorporated into the terms and conditions of the permit for the sign. Such waiver
or adiustment shall be valid onlv for the term of the permit for the sign and shall be suhiect to
suspension. revocation, or denial of renewal under the same circumstances as the permit itsell?.

A non?refundable fee shall be chart-{ed for the processing and issuance of an
advertising license under this division. In accordance with Section 6?503( 13) of the Charter. the
Director of the Department shall establish a fee. suhiect to approval bLthe Citv Council hv
adoption of a resolution. and collect such fee based upon the cost of issuance and administration
of considering petitions for waivers and adjustments. A fee shall be chzuped l" or each premises for

which a petition for @justment or waiver of certain standards is requested, regardless of the

 

number of speci?c adiustments or waivers that may be requested for such premises. After adoption

56
A18-08091 1-31-19

resolution by the City Council and approval of the resolution by the Mayor, the fees that are
provided for in this subsection shall be:

Published in a dailyr newspaper of general circulation and in the Journal oi" the City

Council:

(2) Made available at the Department and at the Office of the City Clerk: and

Reviewed by the Director 01? the Department at least once every two years.
See. 4-4-17. Appeals of administrative decisions under this chapter.

In accordance with Chapter 3. Administrative Hearings and Enforcement. and
Administrative Ammonia, Division IV, Administrative Appeals, of this Code, any appeal of an
administrative decision made pursuant to this Chapter shall be made to the Department of Appeals
and Hearings.

Secs. 4-4-18?4-4-30. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. GENERAL SIGN STANDARDS
Sec. 4-4-31. In General.

This division sets forth standards for individual signs. such as their permissible number. area,
height, proiection, clearance, illumination, and dynamic operation. among others, based on the
sign?s type of construction, material. placement, and technological capability. in addition to these
general standards. any sign may be further subject to additional regulations set forth in this article
based on its intended use, such as its use as a business sign. advertising Sign. or temporary Sign.
The standards set forth in this division do not apply to any heritage sign. all of which are exempt

from such standards.

57
A18-08091 1-31-19

Sec. 4-4-32. Arcade sig?

Number. Not more than one arcade sign_is permissible at each point of ingress into
or egress from a building or structure.

(bl Area. The area of any arcade sign must not exceed four square feet.

Clearance. The clearance of any arcade sign must be not less than eight feet. six


No arcade sign located on a low?density residential property may be
illuminated. Any other arcade sign may he illuminated, either internally or externa?y.

Dynamic operation. No arcade sign may be dynamic.
See. 4-4-33. Awning signs.

Number. Not more than one awning sign is permissible for any awning.

Area. The area of an awning sign must not exceed 40% of the area of the awning
to which it is affixed.

Height. The height of any awning sign must not exceed the height of the awning to
which it is affixed.

Clearance. The clearance of any awning sign must be not less than the clearance
of the awning to which it is affixed.

Illumination. No awning sign located on a low-density residential property may be
illuminated. Any other awning sign may be illuminated. either internally or externally.

operation. No awning Sign may be dynamic.
Sec. 4-4-34. Directional signs.

a) Number. Not more than one directional sign is permissible for each point of ingress

or egress from a building. structure. or premises, with the exception that

58
A18-08091 1-31?19

any premises with two or more points of ingress or egress. one additional
directional sign is permissible.

On a multi-building campus, not more than one directional sign is permissible at
each point of ingress or egress from the campus perimeter and at each point of
intersection of any internal roads. walkways, or other pathways for vehicular or
pedestrian traf?c.

On any premises for which a comprehensive sign plan has been submitted to and
approved by the Department as part of a petition under Section 4-4-16 of this Code.
directional signs are permissible in such number as is depicted in the approved plan.

Area.

On any low-density residential property or medium?density residential/mixed use
property. the area of any directional sign must not exceed two square feet.

(2) On any highvdensity residentiah?mixed use property or high-density nonresidential
preperty the area of any directional sign must not exceed six square Feet.

(0) Height. The height of a directional sign must not exceed seven feet.

Illumination. A directional sign may be illuminated. either internally or externally.

Dynamic operation. No directional Sign may be dynamic.

 

Sec. 4-4-35. Double-face signs.

(al

Permissibility. Double-face signs are permissible at any location where a sign is

permitted under this Chapter.



Area. The area of the larger face of a double?face sign must not exceed the

maximum area for the sign, based on its type ofconstruction.

A18-08091

59
1-31-19

Sec. 4-4-36. Dynamic signs.

Permian-WHEN. Dynamic signs are permissible on any high?(lemme
residential/mixed use property or high?density nonresidential property. Dynamic signs are
prohibited on any low?density residential property or mediumudensity residential/mixed use
property.

Construction. A dynamic sign may be constructed as an awning. marquee.
monument, pole, proiecting. roof, wall, or window sign. Of these construction types. only marquee.
roof. and wall signs may be animated.

(cl Number. Not more than one dynamic sign is permissible per premises. with the
exccp tion that:

(I) On any premises containing a multi-tenant building or structure. each ground Sign

may be a dynamic sign.

On any multi+building campus, not more than one dynamic sign is permissible for

each building and for each ground sign.

 

 

On any premises for which a comprehensive sign plan has been submitted to anti
approved by the Department as part of a petition under Section 4?4?16 Of this Code.
dynamic signs are permissible in such number as is depicted in the approved plan.

Illumination. Any dynamic sign may be illuminated. subiect to the limits for

illuminated signs set forth in Section 4?4?37 of this Code.

Computer Interface. If a dynamic sign is operated by means of digital computer

controls and associated software. the records of such controls, including records of the sign?s
illumination intensity. change cycle. display of animation. and hours of operation, must be

available for inspection upon request by the Department. If such records are not made available

60
A18-08091 1-31-19

within 48 hours following such request, the sign shall cease operation until such records are
provided.

Hours of Operation. Any dynamic sign that is located within 150 feet of, and that
is visible from, one or more residential dwelling units in a low?density residential property.
medium-density residentialhnixed use property. or innit-density residentiali?mixed use property
must discontinue all dynamic operations, including all automated motion of any sign components.
the automated changing of the sign?s copy, and the depiction of animation. between the hours of
11:00 pm and 6:00 am. During these hours. such signs may operate as static, non?dynamic,

internally illuminated signs.

 

No Undue Distraction. Dynamic signs must not interfere with. obstruct. or
ot?helwise distract from any traffic sign. signal or device. and must not otherwise operate to cause
undue distraction so as to impair the safe and efficient ?ow of pedestrian or vehicular traf?c.
Sec. 4-4-37. Illuminated signs.

Permissibilitv. No internally illuminated sign is permissible on any low-density
residential property.

Construction. No illuminated sign may be constructed as a portable sign.

Illumination. Any illuminated sign must be equipped with an ambient light monitor
and associated equipment to automatically adiust the intensity level of the illumination based on
ambient light conditions. subject to the following limits:

(1) For any illuminated Sign. luminance must not exceed 0.3 foot candles above

ambient light conditions at any time. and

 

61
A18-08091 1-31-19

For any internally illuminated sign, luminance must not exceed 2,500 nits during
the hours between each sunrise and the subsequent sunset, and must not exceed 250
nits during the hours between each sunset and the subsequent sunrise.

Orientation.

 

It Any internally illuminated sign that is within 150 feet of, and visible from. one or
more residential dwelling units in a low-density residential property. medium-
density residentialhnixed use property; or hi gh?density residential/mixed use
property must be oriented to direct light away from all such units.

(2) Any externally illuminated sign may be illuminated only by one or more steady.

stationary, shielded light sources that are oriented solely toward the sign face

 

No Maine Distraction. Illuminated signs must not interfere with. obstruclL or
otherwise distract from any traf?c sign, signal or device, and must not otherwise operate to cause
undue distraction so as to impair the safe and efficient ?ow ol" pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
See. 4-4-38. Marquee signs.

Number. Not more than one marquee sign is permissible on any single facade of a
marquee.

Area. The area of any marquee sign must not exceed the area of the facade of the
marquee on which the sign is located.

(0) Pmier'rion. No marquee sign may proiect out from any facade of a marquee.

Illumination. Any marquee Sign may be illuminated. either externally or internally.

to) Dynamic operation. A marquee sign may be dynamic.

62
A18-08091 1-31-19



Sec. 4-4-39. Monument sig?
Number. Not more than one monument sign is permissible on any premises. with
the exception of:
(1) On any premises for which the premises frontage exceeds 200 linear feet. not more
than one monument sign is permissible or each premises frontage that. exceeds 200
linear feet, provided that no two monument signs on the same premises may be
located within 200 feet of each other; and
(2) On any premises for which a comprehensive sign plan has been submitted to and
approved by the Department as part of a petition under Sec. 4-4-16 of this Code.
monument signs are permissible in such number as is depicted in the approved plan.
Area. The area of each face of a monument sign located in a low-density
residential property or medium-density residential/mixed use property must not exceed 12 square
feet. The area of each face of a monument sign located in a high?density residentiallmixed use
property or hi gh?density nonresidential property must not exceed 20 square feet.
to) Height. The height of a monument Sign located in a low-density residential propertv
or medium-density residential/mixed use property must not exceed sis feet. The area of each face
of a monument sign located in a low?density residential property or medium-density
residential/mixed use property must not exceed ten feet.
Minni?rmrr?rm. A monument sign may be illuminated. either internally or externally.
Dynamit- operation. A monument sign may be dynamic, but not animated.
Sec. 4-4-40. Pole signs.
Permissibilitv. 0 Dole sign may be located on any low?density residential property

or medium?density residentialfmixed use properly, on any premises identified in Chapter 50 of this

63
A18-08091 1-31?19

Code as within a ?traditional main street overlav,? or on any premises within the Central Business

District except parking lots.



Nan-thaw. Not more than one pole sign is permissible on anv premises. with the

exception that:

Ll)

(C)

(I)

(2)

(3)

(4)

AIS-08091

On anv premises for which the premises frontage exceeds 300 feel, not more than
one pole sign is permissible for each premises frontage that exceeds 300 linear feet,
provided that no two pole signs on the same premises mav be located within 300
feet of each other. and

On any premises for which a comprehensive sign plan has been submitted to and
approved by the Department as part of a petition under Sec. 4?4?16 of this Code,
pole signs are permissible in such number as is depicted in the approved plan.
Area.

The area of a pole sign located in a high?densitv residentialfmixed use propertv
must not exceed [2 square feet.

The area of a pole sign located on a high-densitv nonresidential property must not
exceed 20 square feet.

Notwithstanding paragraphs and of this subsection, the area of a pole sign
on a premises operated as a motor vehicle refueling station must not exceed 36
square feet.

Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection. the area of not more than
one pole sign on a premises operated as a multi-tenant shopping center featuring
not less than four ground ?oor tenant spaces and associated on-premises surface

parking must not exceed 150 square feet.

64
1-31-19

Height. The height of a pole sign located along any frontage of a premises that

abuts a right-of?wav that is not more than 80 feet in diameter must not exceed 15 feet. The height

ol'a pole sign located on any other premises must not exceed 35 feel. But in no case may the height

of a pole sign exceed the maximum permissible height of a hui.lding_or structure for the premises

on which the Sign is located.

 

 

 

Illumination. A pole sign may be illuminated. either internally or externally.
Dynamic operation. A pole Sign may be dynamic. but not animated.
Sec. 4-4-41. Portable signs.
Permissibilitv. A portable Sign is permissible only where located so as to avoid

 

obstruction of or interference with the safe and efficient ?ow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic. or

with the accessibility into or out of any building or structure. A portable sign located in the public

i'igltt?ol??way is further suhiect to approval by the Department of Public Works. or other public

agency with jurisdiction over the right-of-wav.



(2)

(4)

A18-08091

No portable sign may be located less than ten feet. measured linearly, from a
driveway. cross walk. or other curh cut.

No portable Sign may be located less than 20 feet. measured linearly, from another
portable sign.

N0 portable sign may be located less than six feet, measured radially. from any
point of ingress or egress from a building or structure.

No portable sign may be located on a sidewalk or other pedestrian pathway that is
less than six feet wide, or so as to restrict the width of any such pathway to less

than six feet wide at any point.

65
1-31-19

Number. Not more than one portable sign may be permitted for any premises. with

the exception that:

(I) On any premises containing a multi-tenant building, not more than one portable
sign is permissible for each ground??oor tenant space.

(2) On any malti?building campus. not more than one portable sign is permissible for
each building within the campus.

(3) On any premises for which a comprehensive sign plan has been submitted to and
approved by the Department as part of a petition under Section 4?4-16 of this Code,
portable signs are permissible in such number as is depicted in the approved plan.

Area. The area of a portable sign located on or adiacent to a low?density

residential property or medium?density residentiallmised use property must not exceed six square
feet. The area of a portable Sign located on or adiacent to a high-density residentiatfmixed use
property or high-density eomtnerciali'indust rial property must not exceed ten square feet.

Height. The height of a portable sign located on or adiacent to a low?density

residential property or medium?density residential/mixed use property must not exceed three feet.

 

The height of a portable sign located on or adiacent to a high?density residential/mixed use

 

preperty or high density nonresidential property must not exceed four feet.

Material. Portable signs must be of durable material and construction, and must be
reasonably able to withstand deterioration, damage, or destruction due to inclement weather. the
forces ol'wind, rain. and snow, pedestrian and vehicular traf?c. and other impacts.

tl?) Hittinimirion. No portable sign may be illuminated. either internally or externally.

Dynamic operation. A portable sign may be dynamic. but not animate?

66
AIS-08091 1-31-19

Sec. 4-4-42. Proiecting signs.

Permissibilirr. No proiecting sign is permissible on any low?density residential
property or within [5 feet. measured linearlyJ of any other proiecting sign.

Number. Not more than one _proiecting sign is permissible on anV premises. with
the exception that:

L1) On any premises containing a multi?tenant building or structure. not more than one

projecting sign is permissible for each ground?floor tenant space.

 

On any multi-lmilding campus, not more than one proiecting sign is permissible for
each building.
On any premises for which a comprehensive sign plan has been submitted to and

 

approved by the Department as part of a petition under Sec. 4-446 of this Code,

proiecting signs are permissible in such number as is depicted in the approved plan.

Area. The area of a projecting sign located on, or af?xed to a building or structure

located on, a medium?density residential/mixed use property or a high?density residential/mixed

use property must not exceed 18 square feet. The area of a proieeting sign located on or af?xed to

a building or structure located on. a high-density nonresidential property must not exceed 24 square


Projection. The proiection of a proiecting sign located on. or affixed to a building

or structure located on, a medium~densitv residential/mixed use property or a high?density

residentiallmixed use property must not exceed 36 inches. The area of a proiceling Sign located

on, or af?xed to a building or structure located on, a high?density nonresidential property must not

exceed 48 inches.

67
A18-08091 1-31-19

Height. The height of any proiecting sign must not exceed the height of the roof
line of the building or structure to which the sign is affixed.

Clearance. The clearance of any proiecting sign must be not less than eight feet
and six inches and such clearance must be unobstructed to allow the safe and efficient ?ow of
pedestrian traf?c below the sign.

illumination. Any proiecting sign may be illuminatetL either internally or
externally.

Drncunic'. A projecting sign may be dynamic. but not animated.

Sec. 4-4-43. Raceway Signs.

No racewaLsign is permissible on any Jew-density residential
property.

Number. Not more than one raceway sign is permissible for any facade of the
buildinmr structure to which the sign is af?xed. with the exception that for any multi-tenant
building or structure. not more than one raceway sign is permissible for each ground ?oor tenant.

(0) Height. The height of a raceway sign must not exceed the height of the roof line or
parapet of the building or structure to which it is affixed.

Clearance. The clearance of a raceway sign must not be less than eight feet and
six inches.

Color. The raceway of any racewat.t Sign shall be painted or otherwise colored to
match the color of the facade of the building or structure to which it is mounted.

Illumination. A raceway sign may be illuminated, either internally or externally

Dynamic operation. No raceway Sign may be dynamic.

68
A18-08091 1-31-19

Sec. 4-4-44. Reef signs.
No roof sign is permissible on any low-density residential property
or on any medium?density residentialimixed use property.

Number. Not more than one reef sign is permissible on any premises, provided

 

th_at:
L1) On a multi-building campus, one roof sign is permissible for each building or
structure.
On any premises for which a comprehensive sign plan has been sulmiittetl to and

 

approved hy the Department as part of a petition under Sec. 4?446 of this Code,

 

roof signs are permissible in such number as is depicted in the approved plan.

(0) Height. The height of any roof sign must not exceed the maximum permissible
height of a building or structure for the premises on which the sign is located.

Illumination. A reef sign may be illuminated, either internally or externally.

(6) Dynamic operation. A roof sign may be dynamic.
See. 4-4-45. Wall signs.

Number. Not more than one wall sign is permissible for any facade of a building
or structure.

Area.

 

(1) The area of a wall sign located on a low-density residential preperty or a medium
density residential/mixed use property must not exceed 60% of the l'aeade to which

it is affixed.

69
A18-08091 1-31-19

(2) The area of a wall sign located on a high?density residential/mixed use or high?
densityr nonresidential property must not exceed 80% of the facade to which it is
affixed.

(0) Height. The height of any wall sign must not exceed the height of the roof line or

parapet of the building or structure to which the sign is af?xed.

Illumination. Any wall singay be illuminated, either internally or externally.

te) Dynamic operation. A wall sign may be dynamic.

Sec. 4-4-46. Window signs.

Permissibilirv. No window sign is permissible on any low?density residential
property.

Height. The height of any window signs must not exceed second story of the
building or structure to which it is af?xed.

(0) Arm. The cumulative area of all window signs located in any single window must
not exceed the lesser of 20% of the area of the window or 40% of the area of the window if all
window signs are constructed of vinyl mesh or other semi-transparent material, or 80 square
hilt.

Illumination. No window sign may be illuminated. either internally or externally.

Dwmmir.? operation. A window sign may be dynamic only if located in a second-
story window. but in no case may a window sign be animated.

Sec. 4-4-47?4-4-60. Reserved.

70
A18-08091 1-31-19

DIVISION 3. REGULATION OF BUSINESS SIGNS

SUBDIVISION A. GENERALLY

Sec. 4-4-61. Applicabilitv.

The regulations set forth in this division shall apply to all business signs, regardless of

location, within the City.

Sec. 4-4-62. Limitation on maximum aggregate business sign area.



In general. the maximum permissible aggregate area for all business signs located

on a single premises is:



(3)



A18-08091

On any low?(lensilit residential property, one square foot per linear foot of building
Frontage. not to exceed fifty square feet.

On ant,r medium?density residentiallmisetl use property or high-{lensity
residential/mixed use property. the greater of:

a. 2.6 square feet per linear feet oiibuilding frontage; or

b. one square foot of premises frontage, not to exceed 500 square feet.

On any high-density nonresidential property, three square feet per linear foot of
building frontage. except for a casino premises. for which four square feet per linear
Foot of building frontage is permissible.

For am?r eorner premises. the maximum permissible aggregate area as determined
in Subsection of this seetion shall be calculated and shall apply separately for

each frontage of the premises.

71
1?3 1-19

See. 4-4-63. Additional aggregate business sign area allowances.

Notwithstanding the aggregate business sign area limits set forth in Section 4?4?62 of this

(It

AIS-08091

Code, additional aggregate area for business signs is permissible in the Following

circumstances and subject to the following limits:

High rise identification signs. On any building or structure located within the

Central Business District for which the height of the roo?ine or oaraoet exceeds

100 feet, not more than three identification signs are permissible. subiect to the

following:

a. The minimum clearance of each sign must be 100 feet.

b. The maximum area of any sign is determined bV its clearance and the linear
width of the building facade to which the Sign is affixed, measured at the

height of the sign, as follows:

 

For any sign with a clearance of at least 100 feet but less than 200
feet. the area of the sign must not exceed 2 square feet per linear foot
of building width.

(ii) For any sign with a clearance ol" at least 200 feet but less than 300
feet, the area of the sign must not exceed 3 square feet per linear foot
of building width.

For any sign with a clearance of at least 300 feet. the area of the sign
must not exceed 4 square feet per linear foot of building width.

c. Not: more than one higharise identification sign may be located on any

facade of a building or structure.

72
1-31-19

 Priimed side-wall signs. On any building or structure that is not more than two
stories and that is adiacent to a vacant property, such that the side facade of the

building is exposed, not more than one sign is permissible on such side wall, suhiect

A18-08091

to the following:

1-1.

The sign must be a painted sign.

 

 

 

b. The sign must not be illuminated.

c. The height of the sign must not exceed the height of the first storV of the
building or structure.

d. The area of the sign must not exceed 500 square feet, excluding the area of

 

any windows, doors. or other openings in the facade.

Sponsorship signs associated with politic on. On any premises that contains a

substantial work of public art that is located on the exterior of the property. such as

a mural or outdoor sculpture, the cost of which is sponsored by a third party. not

more than one sponsorship sign recognizing such sponsorship is permissible.

subiect to the 't?ollowing:

The sign must be located proximate to the work or public art.
The area of the sign must not exceed 5% of the area of the associated public

art, but in no case more than 300 square feet. The area of public art

 

consisting of a moral or other two-dimensional form should be computed as
if it is a sign, in accordance with See. 445 of this Code. The area of public
art consisting of a sculpture or other three~dimensional form should he
computed as the product of its height and oncdquarter of its perimeter at its

b_ase

73
1-31?19

Sec. 4-4-64. Business signs on multi-tenant buildings and multi-building campuses.

a) On any premises containing a multi?tenant building or structure, the maximum
aggregate business sign area for the premises as set forth in Section 4?4?62 of this Code and any
additional aggregate business sign allowances as set forth in Section 4?4?63 of this Code may be
allocated among the various tenants as may be determined by the building owner or its agent and
each tenant.

On any multi-building campus, the maximum aggmgale business sign area for the
premises as set forth in Section 4-4-62 of this Code and any additional aggregate business sign
allowances as set forth in Section 4?4?63 of this Code may be allocated among the various
buildings and open spaces within the campus as may be determined by the owner of the campus
or its agent.

Sec. 4-4-65. Restrictions on location of business signs on speci?ed premises.

in general, a business sign may be af?xed, affixed. or otherwise placed at any
location on a building, structure or other portion of the premises unless expressly restricted by this
Chapter.

Notwithstanding Subsection of this section, the location of any business sign is
restricted to certain locations based on the type of premises, as follows:

(I) On any multiple?story buildings or structure located on a low-density residential
property. the height oi" any business sign must not exceed the height of the first
story of the building or structure. On an}r other multiple?story building or structure,
the height of any business sign, other than a high-rise sign allowed under Section

4?4?63 of this Code or a roof sign, must not exceed 40 feet.

74
A18-08091 1-31-19

any premises that operates as a commercial parking lot. as defined in Section
32?1?1 of this Code. not less than one business Sign must be located at each point
of ingress into the lot for purposes ot?compliance with Section 32?1?20 of this Code.

Any ground sign must be located so as to be set back a distance of not less than half

of the height of the sign. but in no case more than ten feet. from any building or
structure. or any boundary of the premises on which it is located.
Sec. 44-66. Dynamic business signs.

On any premises for which dynamic signs are permissible. of the total area of all business
?gns permissible on the premises. not more than ?25% of the maximum permissible aggregate
area. as calculated in accordance with Sec. 4-4-62 of this Code. may be dynamic.

Secs. 4-4-67 4-4-80. Reserved.
SUBDIVISION B. ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT.
Sec. Purpose.

The purpose of the Entertainment District is to leverage the display of vivid and dynamic
signage to foster a vibrant and exciting entertaimnent?based area within the City. Signage
regulation in the Entertainment District is intended to be less restrictive than in surrounding areas,
to allow for signs that are larger. higher. more illuminated, and more dynamic than what

is permissible elsewhere. To achieve this nurpose without negatively impacting the surrounding

 

area: the Entertainment District is structured in multiple zones. such that the most intense signage

 

is contained in the District?s core areas. which are most effectively screened from properties

 

outside of the District. For zones in which signage is anticipated to he more visible from outside

the District. signage regulations are relatively more restrictive.

 

75
A18-08091 1-31-19

Sec. 4-4-82. Entertainment District; boundaries and zones.
(at) The Entertainment District consists of the area within the boundary beginning at
the intersection of the South Fisher Freeway Service Drive and Woodward Avenue and continuing
to Sproat Street. then to Clifford Avenue, then to the South Fisher Freewav Service Drive. then to
Woodward Avenue. then to the North Fisher Freewav Service Drive, then along the westerlv line
of the parcel known as 28 Montcalm. then along the westerlv line of the parcel known as 2211
Woodward Avenue, then along the westerlv line of the parcel known as 2125 Woodward Avenue,
then along the westerlv line of the parcel known as 54 W. Elizabeth to W. Elizabeth Street. then
along the east-west allev parallel to and south of W. Elizabeth Street to the easterly line of
Witherell Street, then to Broadway Street. then to Gratiot Avenue. then to Brush Street. then to
Beacon Street. then to St. Antoine Street. then along the northern line of the parcel known as 1900
St. Antoine Street, then along the easterlv line of the parcel known as 2000 St. Antoine. then to
Montcalm Street to the easterly line of the parcel known as 2354 Brush Street, then to the North
Fisher Freewav Service Drive to Woodward Avenue, excluding_the church located at 50 Fisher,
to the point of beginning.
The Entertainment District comprises four unique zones. each described as follows:
(1) Zone 1: Entertainment Core. The entertainment core consists of the premises. or
t?rontages thereof. that abut Witherell Street between Adams Avenue and Montcalm
Street, Montcalm Street between Witherell Street and Brush Street. Brush Street
between Montcalm Street and Beacon Street, and Adams Avenue between
Montcalm Street and Brush Street.

Zone 2: Historic Theater District. The historic theater district consists of the

memises, or frontages thereof, that abut Montcalm Street. Columbia Street, and

76
1-31-19

(3)

(4)

Elizabeth Street. each between the western boundary of the Entertainment District
and Witherell Street, Broadway Street between Witherell Street and John Street.
Madison Street between Witherell Street and Brush Street, Brush Street between
Mechanic Street and Beacon Street, and Henry Street between Park Avenue and
Clifford Avenue.

Zone 3: Woodward North Corridor. The Woodward north corridor consists of
Woodward Avenue between the North Fisher Freeway Service Drive and Sproat


Zone 4: Entrepreneurs! Buffer. The entertainment buffer consists of the premises.
or frontages thereof, within the Entertainment District that are not included in the

entertainment core, the theater district, or the Woodward north corridor.

Sec. 4-4-83. Entertainment core; purpose and sign regulations.



The entertainment core is intended to provide a maximally vibrant and energetic

but well contained space through highsintensity signage. Oversized, intense, and dynamic signs,

including animated signs, are encouraged. All signage must be screened from the surrounding area

by intervening buildings or structures to minimize light spillover.



Notwithstandinggegulations set forth in this Chapter that may be more restrictive.

signs located in the entertainment core are subject to the following:

(I)

(2)

A18-08091

The maximum permissible aggregate area for all signs on any premises is l5 square
feet per linear foot of building frontage.

Dvnamic signs are permissible without limitation as to their number or individual
size. The minimum clearance of any dynamic sign must be not less than ten feet

and the maximum height of any dynamic sign must be not more than 40 feet.

77
1-31-19

(4)

Dynamic signs are permissible at anv location where the sign oriented towards, and
reasonablv screened by, a building or other opaque structure, the height ofwhich is
not less than the height of the sign. Dvnamic signs may operate as such without
time restrictions. The illuminance of any dynamic sign must not exceed 2.500 nits.
A sign mav cover or conceal architectural features, provided that if a sign covers a
window it must be constructed of vinyl mesh or other semi-transparent material.

Roof signs are permissible in anv number.

Sec. 4-4-84. Theater district: purpose and sign regulations.



The theater district is intended to accommodate and encourage large marquees.

miecting signs, and other vibrant signage typical of signature live theater venues. Context-

appropriatc dvnamic and illuminated signs are also encouraged.



Notwithstanding regulations set forth in this Chapter that may be more restrictive,

signs located in the theater district are suhiect to the Following:

{ll

(2)

A18-08091

The maximum permissible aggregate area for all signs on any premises is six square
feet per linear foot of building frontage.

Dynamic, but not animated. signs are permissible without limitation as to their
number or individual size. The minimum clearance of anv such sign must be not
less than ten feet and the maximum height of anv such sign must be not more than
40 feet. Dynamic, but not animated signs are permissible at any location where the
sign is oriented towards. and reasonablv screened hv, a building or other opaque
structure, the height of which is not less titan the height oi" the sign. Anv such sign
mav operate as such onlv during the hours between 6am and the subsequent 2am.

During all other hours, the sign may operate as a static sign.

78
1-31-19

sign may cover or conceal architectural features, provided that it" a sign covers a
window it must be constructed of vinyl mesh or other semi-transparent material.

(4) Roof signs are permissible in any number.

Sec. 4-4-85. Woodward north corridor; purpose and regulations.

Woodward north corridor is intended to allow large proieetin and dynamic signs,
with sensitivity to the residential premises located adjacent to the Entertainment District.
Pedestrian-friend]y signage and contesbappropriate illumination are encouraged. Dynamic, but
not animated, signs are permissible on a limited basis.

Notwithstanding re galations set forth in this Chapter that may be more restrictive.
signs located in the Woodward north corridor are subieet to the following;

I) The masimnm permissible aggregate area for all signs on any premises is three

square feet per linear foot of building frontage.

Dynamic, but not animated. signs are permissible without limitation as to their
number or individual size. The minimum clearance of any dynamic sign must be
not less than ten feet and the maximum height of any animated sign must be not
more than 25 feet. Any dynamic sign may operate as such only during the hours
between 6am and the subsequent 2am. During all other hours, the sign may operate
as a static illuminated sign.

A sign may cover or conceal architectural features, provided that if a sign covers a
window it must be constructed of Vinyl mesh or other semi-transparent material.

Sec. 4-4-86. Entertainment buffer; purpose and sign regulations.
The entertainment buffer is intended to be a vibrant, pedestrian-mien ted retail.

restaurant and bar district that is sensitive to surrounding residential areas. Petlest'rian?l?riendly

79
A18-08091 1?31-19

signage and context-appropriate illumination are encouraged. Dynamic, but not animated. signs
are permissible on a limited basis. The entertainment buffer is also designed to screen the intense
signage of Zone 1 from, and minimize light spillover into, adjacent areas.

Notwithstanding?gulations set forth in this Chapter that may be more restrictive.
signs located in the entertainment buffer are subject to the following:

The maximum permissible aggregate area for all signs on any premises is 4.5 square

feet per linear foot of building frontage.
(2) Dynamic. but not animated. signs are permissible without limitation as to their

namic sign must be not less than

 

number or size. The minimum clearance of an

   

ten Feet and the maximum height 01? any animated sign must be not more than 40
feet. Any dynamic sign may operate as such only during the hours between 6am
and the subsequent 2am. During all other hours. the sign may operate as a static

illuminated sign.

 

Sec. 4-4-87 to 4-4-100. Reserved.
DIVISION. 4. REGULATION OF ADVERTISING SIGNS LOCATED OUTSIDE THE
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
Sec. 4-4-101. In general.

The regulations set forth in this Division pertain to all advertising signs al't'ised or otherwise
placed within the boundaries of a premises that is located outside of the Central Business District.
Sec. 4-4-102. Permit for new or altered advertising signs.

No permit may be issued by the Department for the construction and erection of a new

advertising sign, or for the alteration of an existing advertising sign, except upon approval of a

80
1-31?19





waiver of such prohibition in accordance with Section 4-4-16 of this Code, as well as satisfaction

of each of the following:

(1)

(2)

(3)

t4]

t6)

A18-08091

Finding bv the Department of Public Works Traffic Engineering Division that the
placement of the advertising sign on the premises will not impair the traffic safetv
of motorists and pedestrians. If the sign is proposed to be operated as an animated
or otherwise dynamic sign, such finding must specifically address the impact of the
proposed operation of the sign;

Finding by the Planning and Development Department that the placement of the
advertising sign on the premises will not be detrimental to environmental aesthetics
by ohstrutmg views of significant architectural or natural features;

Findingbv the Chief Financial Officer that neither the applicant nor the owner of
the premises to which the sign is sought to be placed, ifdiffercnt from the applicant.
is in arrears lo the Citv for taxes or assessments. including but not limited to
properti,r tax, income tax, personal tax or special assessments;

Finding by the Department that neither the applicant nor the owner of the premises
to which the sign is sought to be placed, if different from the applicant, is the subiect
of any outstanding violations of this Code. including but not limited to violations
of anv provision of Chapter it or Chapter 50 of this Code;

Finding by the Department that the sign, as proposed. will he in compliance will all
spacing. setback, height. clearance. size, and other dimensional and operational
standards set forth in this Division: and

Submission of copies of all permits and other approvals by any other federal, state.

or local governmental agency that may be necessary for construction, erection, or

81
1-31-19

Uoperation of the sign. including but not limited to anproyal by the Michigan

Department ofTransportation or the Detroit Historic District Commission.

Sec. 4-4-103. Spacing requirements.

No advertising sign located outside of the Central Business District may be permitted if the

premises on which it is proposed to be located is:

L1)

(2)

(6)

A18-08091

1,000 feet or less, measured linearly. from another advertising sign that is also
neither dynamic nor internally_illuminatet[ and is oriented in the same direction as
the sign, if the sign is neither dynamic nor internally illuminated.

1,750 feet or less, measured linearly. from another advertising sign that is either
dynamic or illuminated and is oriented in the same direction as the sign, if the sign
is neither dynamic nor internally illuminated.

 ,750 feet or less. measured linearly, from another advertising sign that is oriented
in the same direction as the sign, if the advertising sign is dynamic or internally
illuminated.

500 feet or less, measured linearly. from a premises that contains a school, park,
playground, or other outdoor recreation facility as deli netl in Sec. 50?16-144 of this


500 Feet or less, measured radially, from a historic district identi?ed in Chapter 2]
of this Code.

125 feet or less, measured radially, from the edge of the traveled roadway of any
freeway or interchange ramp between freeways used by traffic traveling in the

direction opposite the orientation of the sign.

82
1-31-19

feet or less, measured radially. from the boundary line of any freeway or
interchange ramp between freeways used by traf?c traveling in the direction
opposite the orientation of the sign.

(8) 40 feet or less. measured radially. from any premises that contains one or more
residential dwelling units.

Sec. 4-4-104. Setbacks.

Advertising signs must be set back not less than five feet from any boundary of the premises
on which the sign is located.
Sec. 4-4-105. Height and clearance.

The height of any advertising sign shall not exceed 35 feet. with the exception of

any freeway advertising sign, the height of which shall not exceed 60 feet.

The clearance of any advertising sign shall he not less than 15 feet.

 

The height and clearance requirements set forth in Subsections and of this
section are subiect to any general standards based on the type of construction of the sign as set
forth in Division 2 of this Article, that are more restrictive.

Sec. 4-4-106. Area.
The area of any advertising sign is subject to the following:
(1) If the sign is a freeway advertising sign and is oriented to a freeway. the area of the

sign must not exceed 6T2 square feet.

 

If the sign is on a premises that ahuts one or more rights?of-way other than

 

a freeway. each of which is not less than 80 feet in width. the area of the sign must

not exceed 378 square feet.

 

83
AIS-08091 1-31-19

the sign is located on a premises that abuts a right-of-wav other than a freewav,
anv one of which is less than 80 feet in width, the area of the sign must not exceed


The area requirements set forth in Subsection of this section are subject to any
general standards based on the tvpe of construction of the sign as set forth in Division 2 of this
Article, that are more restrictive.

Sec. 44-107. Depa rtment ol'Publie Works adjustment.

All spacing, setback. height, clearance, area, and other dimensional and operational
standards set forth in this Division are subject to restriction by the Department of Public Works
Traffic EngineeringDivision if it finds that more restrictive standards are necessarv to mitigate
any potential impairment to the traffic safetv of motorists and pedestrians.

Secs. 4-4-108 ?4-4-120. Reserved.
DIVISION 5. REGULATION OF ADVERTISING SIGNS LOCATED IN THE
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
See. 4-4-121. Advertising License Required.

It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect. attach, affix. post. place,
displav, or maintain anv advertising sign located on a premises within the Central Business District
without having first obtained an advertising license from the Department, and maintaining such

license in good standing.

 

The Department shall not issue a permit to construct, erect, or alter any advertising
sign located on a premises within the Central Business District except to an applicant to whom a

valid advertising license has been issued.

84
AIS-08091 1-31-19

Onlv the owner ot? an existing, occupied, building or structure located in the Central
Business District is eligible for an advertising license, which must be associated with the premises
on which such building or structure is located.

Sec. 4-4-122. Term and reapplicatipn: renewal prohibited.

An advertising license issued under this division is valid for a term not to exceed
live vears, commencing on the date ol" issuance of the ?rst advertisingiicense issued under Section
4?4- I 27th of this Code. Upon the conclusion of its term, an advertising license shall automatical Iv
expire and become invalid and the licensee or its agent shall immediately remove the advertising
sign that is permissible under such license.

No advertising license issued under this division may be renewed. However. anv
advertising licensee mav applv for a new advertisinglicense under the procedures set forth in
Section 444- 27( b} of this Code.

Sec. 4-4-123. Application; information required.

An application for an advertising license under this division shall be made on a
form that is provided bv the Buildings, Sal?etv Engineering. and Environmental Department
Business License Center. Each individual advertising sign shall require a separate application.
The application shall be considered completed when the appr0priate person has signed and dated
the application in the presence of a notarv public, has paid the required license fee. and has
provided the information that is required on the form, including:

The name, address, and contact information of the applicant, in accordance with

Subsection of this section.
(2) The address and tax parcel identification numberts) of the premises for which the

advertising license is sought.

85
A18-08091 1-31-19

(4)

L51

(6)

t7}

t3}





Proof of the applicant?s current ownership of the premises for which the advertising
license is sought. Such proof mav be provided in the form ol'a deed. land contract,
or other valid and duly recorded instrument.

The name. address. and contact information of the advertising partner of the
applicant, in accordance with Subsection of this section.

The name. address. and contact information of the sign erection contractor for the
advertising sign for which the advertising license is sought, in accordance with
Subsection (11} of this section. as well as the number of such contractor?s valid
license as issued by the Buildings. Safety Engineering, and Environmental
Department Business License Center.

Identification of the category of advertising sign. as described in Section 4?4?130
of this Code. for which the advertising license is being sought.

Identification of the orientation of the facade of the building or structure to which
the advertising sign is proposed to be posted.

Complete dimensional information regarding the proposed advertising sign.
including its area. horizontal and vertical dimensions. height. clearance. all as
depicted on plans and elevations of the building or structure that are in a form
acceptable to the Department.

Copies of all permits and other approvals hv anv other federal. state. or local
governmental agency that matr he necessarv for construction. erection. or operation
of the sign. including but not limited to approvals by the Michigan Department of

Transportation or the Detroit Historic District Commission.

86
1-31?19

Submission of the name. address, and contact information for any person as may

he required under Subsection of this section shall be provided in accordance with the following:

(1)

t3)



A18-08091

Where the person is an individual:
a. The person?s full legal name and any other name used by the person during

the preceding ?ve years;

 

 

h. The person?s current mailing address and e?mail address; and
0. Written proof of age in the form of a driver?s license, or a picture

identification document containing the person?s date of birth issued by a
governmental agency or a copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a
picture identification document issued by a governmental agency.

Where the entity is a partnership:

ii. The let?al name and any other name used by the partners during the

preceding five year: and

 

b. The current mailing address and email address for the entity.

Where the entity conducts business under a trade or assumed name:

 

 

a. The complete and I'utl trade or assumed name:
b. The county where, and date that, the trade or assumed name was filed;
0. The name of the person doing business under such trade or assumed name,

 

the manager and other person in charge; and
d. The current mailing address and e?mail address for the entity.

Where the entity is a corporation:

 

 

a. The toll and accurate corporate name;
b. The state and date of incorporation;
87

1-31-19

The full names and addresses of officers. directors. managers, and other
persons with authority to bind the corporation; and
d. The current mailing address and e-mail address for the entity.

The name. business address, and telephone number of the business;

L6) The name and business address of the statutory agent. or other agent. who is

authorized to receive service of process.

Any information provided by the applicant in accordance with Subsection of
this section shall be supplemented in a form acceptable to the Department within ten business days
of a change of circumstances that would render false or incomplete the information that was
previously submitted. The l?euuirement to provide supplemental information shall be Ongoing
during the pendenev of the application and the term of the advertising license, if issued.

Sec. 4-4-124. Establishment, approval. publication, and pavment of annual fee.

A non?refundable fee shall be charged for the processing and issuance of an
advertising license under this division. In accordance with Section 6?503( 13) of the Charter. the
Director of the Department shall establish a fee. subiect to approval by the Citv Council 11v
adoption of a resolution, and collect such fee based upon the cost of issuance and z-itiminislration
of the licensing regulations.

After adoption of a resolution by the City Council and approval of the resolution
hv the Mayor, the fees that are provided for in Subsection of this section shall be:

(1) Published in a dailv newspaper of general circulation and in the Journal ol? the Citv

Council'

 

(2) Made available at the Department and at the Office of the City Clerk; and

Reviewed by the Director of the Department at least once every two years.

88
1-31-19

fee shall be charged for each new advertising license.

Sec. 44-125. Inspection and certification of approval; land use, construction, maintenance.
fire protection and safetv.

Upon application and before any advertising license that is required by this Division
shall be issued. it shall be the duty of the Department to review its records and. where a requisite
inspection has not been done, to refer such application to the Director of the Department. the
Director of Public Works, and the Fire Marshal. who shall cause an inspection to be made of the
premises of such proposed or existing business.

After completion of respective inspections. the Department. the Department of
Public Works. and the Fire Department shall certify, in writing. to the Department that the
applicant is in full compliance with all pertinent state codes and regulations. and this Code,
including, but not limited to the following:

Zoning. The premises on which the advertising sign is proposed to be located is in

compliance with all zoning requirements, as set forth in Chapter 50 of the Citv

 

Code. including verification that the speci?c land use for its intended location has
been established bv the Citv in the respective zoning district and. where the
premises is governed hv a zoning grant. has obtained a valid annual certification of
maintenance of zoning grant conditions.

Construction and Property The premises on which the advertising
sign is preposed to be located is in compliance with all construction and property

maintenance requirements, as set forth in Chapter 8 of this Code. including

 

veri?cation of a valid final certificate of occupancy and current certificate of

compliance, and is not the subject of anv outstanding ?nes or violations.

89
A18-08091 1?3 1-19

Sec. 4-4-126. Investigationm Office of Chief Financial Of?cer required to con?rm no Citv
tax or assessment arrearage.

Upon application and before any advertising license that is required b'Lthis division
shall be issued: it shall be the dutv of the Department to refer such application to the Office of the
Chief Financial Officer, which shall cause an investigation to be completed in accordance with
Section 2?1 13 of the Charter to determine whether any property tax, income tax, personal tax or
special assessments are unpaid. outstanding 0t" delinquent to the Cilv.

A license shall not be issued bv the Business License Center until the Office of the
Chief Financial Officer has given written continuation that the applicant is not in arrears to the
City for taxes, or assessments that are delineated in Subsection of this section.

See. 4-4-127. Buildings. Safety, Engineering. and Environmental Department Issuance of
Licenses.

Not more than 60 days after the effective date of this ordinance. the Director of the
Department shall establish a transition period, the duration of which must not exceed two weeks.
to enable and facilitate the ef?cient and effective transition to the regulations contained in this
Chapter. During this transition period. the owner of any premises located in the Central Business
District that holds a valid permit under Chapter 50 of this Code to display advertising on the
premises may, in its sole discretion. voluntarily and intentionallv abandon such permit and. upon
submission of a complete application as set forth in Section 4-4-1?27 of this Code. shall he issued
an advertising license for such premises.

Not more than 60 davs after the effective date of this ordinance. the Director of the

Department shall establish a date. to occur not less than two weeks following the conclusion of the

90
AIS-08091 1-31-19

transition period established under Subsection of this section. on which the Depattment will
commence acceptinpr applications for advertising. licenses.

The Department shall review and decide upon such applications in the order that
thev are received. until the applicable license can identified in Subsection of
this Section is satis?ed.

(2) If an application is incomplete or otherwise de?cient. the Department mav. in its
sole discretion for each such application. provide the applicant with a reasonable
period ot'time to correct the de?cienev or reiect the application.

The Depaitment shall reiect all applications submitted subsequent to the final
application that. upon its approval, is permissible under the applicable license cap
identified in Subsection of this section.

Not more than four vears following; the date established by the Director of the
Department under Subsection [hi of this section. the Director shall establish a new application date
for anv subsequent advertisina license terms and shall accept and review applications and issue
licenses for such term in the same manner as set forth in Subsection (bi of this section.

The Department shall not allow more than 25 licenses for local advertising signs
and not more than 35 licenses for super advertisina sians. as each catecorv of advertising signs is
described in Section 44-131 of this Code. to be issued at anv one time.

Sec. 44-128. Transfer of advertising: license.
Anv advertising license issued under this division is transt?errable to a new buildina ovmer

or advertisin};r partner. but shall not be transferable to another premises. or to another location on

the satne premises.

A18-08091 91 1-31-19

Sec. 4-4429. Alteration prohibited.

No sign that is licensed under this division mav be altered in any way. Anv
advertising license for an advertisingsign that has been altered is subiect to immediate revocation
bv the Department.

Subsection of this section does not prohibit the periodic changing of the copy
of a licensed sign from time to time.

See. 44430. Suspension, revocation, or denial of reapplicatinn of license.

An advertising license that is issued under this division mav be suspended or revoked in
accordance with Chapter 28 of this Code, Licenses. A licensee for whom an advertising license
has been suspended or revoked mav. in the sole discretion of the Department, be denied from
reapplvin for a new license for the subsequent term.

Sec. 4-4-13]. Sign standards.

Any advertising sign located on a premises in the Central Business District must
comply with all applicable standards for either local advertising signs or super advertising signs,
as set forth in this section. and shall be categorized as such.

The standards applicable to anv local advertising sign are as follows:

Construction: Anv local advertising sign must be constructed as either a wall sign

or a painted sign.

Nmnber: Anv premises mav displav not more than one local advertising sign,
except for premises that displav a super advertising sign. which mav not display
anv local advertising sign.

Area: The area of any local advertising sign must not exceed 80% of the area of

the facade to which it is affixed, but in no case more than 500 square feet.

92
A18-08091 1?31?19

(4) Height: The height of anv local advertising sign must not exceed 40 feet.

Clearance: No local advertising sign is subject to any minimum clearance standard.

Anv local advertising sign mav be externally illuminated but must
not he internally illuminated. with the exception of advertising signs located in the
Entertainment District, which may he illuminated in accordance with the standards
set forth in Division 3, Subdivision of this Article.

(7) Dynamic operation: No local advertising sign may be dvnamic, with the exception
of advertising signs located in the Entertainment District. which may by dynamic
in accordance with the standards set forth in Division 3. Subdivision of this
Article.

The standards applicable to anv super advertising sign are as follows:

(1) Construction: Anv super advertising sign must be constructed as either a wall sign
or a ainted si In.

Number: Anv premises mav display not more than one super advertisingiign,
except for premises that display a local advertising sign. which mav not display anv
super advertising sign.

Area: The area of any super advertising sign must he not less than  ,200 square
feet and must not exceed 60% of the area of the facade to which it is affixed. but in
no case more than 5,000 square feet.

(4) Height: The height of any super advertising sign must not exceed the height of the
roof line or parapet. of the facade to which it is affixed.

(5) Clearance: The clearance of any super advertising sign must be no less than ten

 

AIS-08091

feet.

93
1-31-19

t6} anmr'natim: Any super advertising sign new be externally illuminated but must
not be internally illuminated, with the exception of advertising signs located in the
Entertainment District, which may be illuminated in accordance with the standards
set forth in Division 3, Subdivision of this Article.

(7) Dynastic operation: No super advertising sign may be dynamic. with the exception
of advertising signs located in the Entertainment District. which may be dynamic
in accordance with the standards set forth in Division 3, Subdivision of this
Article.

Any sign that is in compliance with all applicable standards set forth in Subsection

Lb} ol?this section for either local or super advertising.r signs shall be ct?tteaorized as such. Any sign

that is not in compliance with all applicable standards for either local or super advertising signs

are ll'l'l ermissihle.

 

Secs. 4-4?132 44-160. Reserved.
DIVISION 6. 0F ADVERTISING SIGNS IN THE 
Sec. 44146]. In general.

The regulations of this division shall applv to any advertising sign that is constructed.
erected, posted, or otherwise placed in any location within a right-of?wav that is subject to the
jurisdiction and control of the City of Detroit.

Sec. 4-4-162. Department of Public Works approval required.

No advertising Sign that is subiect to the regulations of this Division mav be permitted
unless authorized by the Department of Public Works as a legal encroachment in the right-of way;
A copy of the valid encroachment permit for the Sign must he submitted as part of the application

for construction or erection of the sign. All conditions of approval, dimensional or operational

94
A18-08091 1?3 1-19

standards, and other standards set forth in the encroachment permit shall be incorporated bV
reference into the permit and compliance with all such standards shall be a condition of approval
for such permit. Anv standards set forth in the encroachment permit that are more restrictive than
comparable standards set forth in this Chapter shall control.

Sec. 4-4-163. Sign construction.

Any advertising sign located in the right?of?wav must be constructed as a component of a
mger freestanding structure. such as a newsstand. bus or transit shelter. bench. or hic vcle docking
station. that provides a non?advertising purpose for the benefit of pedestrian or vehicular traffic
utilizing the right-of?wav, provided that the sign is constructed as an integral component. of such
structure and does not rest upon such structure?s roof or protect out from the facade of any such
structure.

Sec. 4-4-164. General sign standards.

Any advertising sign that is permissible under this division is subiect to the following
standards:

(1) Area. The area of an advertising sign located in the right?of?wav shall not exceed

18 square feet, if illuminated. or 24 square feet if not illuminated.

(3) Height. The height of an advertising sign located in the right?of?wav shall not
exceed eight feet, six inches.

Illuminmirm. An advertising sign located in the right?oli-tvav may be illuminated,
either internally or externallv. All sources of illumination for an externallv
illuminated sign must be fully contained in the frame or case that holds the sign.

ti} operation. An advertising sign located in the right?of?wav mav be

dynamic. but shall not be animated.

95
A18-08091 1-31-19

Sec. 4-4-165. Spacing and locational restrictions.

a) No advertising siggi located in the right-of?wav may be permitted to be placed 250
feet or less, measured linearlv in the direction of the orientation of the sign, from any other
advertisingsign located in the right-of-wav that is oriented in the same direction. Such spacing
standards shall applv to signs on both sides of any allows for vehicular traffic to
travel in one direction, and shall apply to signs onlv on the same side of a right?of?wav that allows
for vehicular traffic to travel in two directions.

No advertising sign located in the right-of?wav may be permitted to be placed in a
mrtion of the right?of?wav that is immediately adiacent to and is on the same side of the street as.
a low-density residential property.

Sec. 4-4-166 to 4-4-180. Reserved.
DIVISION 7. TEMPORARY SIGNS
Sec. 4-4-181. In general.

The regulations set forth in this Division are applicable to anv temporarv sign that mav be
constructed, erected, posted. or otherwise placed in anv location.
Sec. 4-4-182. Limitations on number. area, and term.

Not more than one temporarv Sign mav be permitted on any one premises at any
one time. except that for a multi?tenant building or structure. not more than one temporarv sign
may be permitted for any one ground floor tenant at any one time.

No premises. or ground ?oor tenant space in a multi?tenant building or structure.
may he issued more than two permits for a temporarv sign within anv calendar vear.

On low?density residential properties and mcdium-densitv residentialfmised use

properties. the area of anv such sign shall not exceed {Ll square feet per linear font of building

96
AIS-08091 1-31-19

frontage, but in no case less than sis square feet. On hi gh?density rcsidentialimised use properties
and high?density nonresidential properties, the area of any such sign shall not exceed 0.25 square
feet per linear foot of building frontage, but in no case less than 32 square feet.

Any temporary sign may be permitted only until the conclusion of the occasion to
which it is intended to direct attention, upon which date the permit shall expire. No temporary sign
may be permitted for a period of time exceeding 90 days.

Sec. 4-4483. Additional temporary 5ng1 allowances.

Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in Section 4?4?1 82, not more than one additional
temporary sign may be permitted for any premises or ground ?oor tenant space of a multi?tenanl
building, under each of the following circumstances:

(1) Premises listed as being for saie or lease. For any premises. or ground ?oor tenant
space within a multi?tcnant building, that is unoccupied and being actively
marketed for sale or lease. one additional temporary sign for each huildinglrontage
is permissible. Any such sign may be permitted only for the period during which
the premises is unoccupied and being actively marketed for sale or lease. On low?
density residential properties and medium-density residentialfmised use properties,
the area of any such sign must not exceed six square feet. On high-density
residentialimixed use properties and high-density nonresidential properties, the
area of any such sign must not 32 square feet.

Q1 Premises with Open Building Permit. For any premises, or ground floor tenant
space within a multi-tenanl building, that is unoccupied and is validly permitted
under Chapter 8 of this Code for construction of a new building or structure or

complete renovation or redevelopment ofan existing building, structure, or ground?

97
A18-08091 1?31?19

Floor tenant space, one additional temporarv sign for each building frontage is
permissible. Any such sign may be permitted only for the period during which the
permit for the construction. renovation. or redevelopment remains valid. and shall
automatically expire upon issuance of a certi?cate of occupancy. whether
temporary or final, for the premises or tenant space. The aggregate area of all such
temporarv signs on anv premises must not exceed the maximum aggregate sign area
for the premises, as determined under Section 4-4-62 of this Code. Anv such sign
that is located on a premises undergoing construction or complete renovation or
redevelopment ol?a building or structure mav he placed on a screening fence that is
erected to cordon oil the construction. renovation, or redevelopment site. Anv_such
sign that is located on a ground-?oor tenant Space may be placed in a window
notwithstanding the standard for window signs set forth in Section of this

See. 4-4484. Temporary sign copy.

No temporarv sign may be permitted for changeable copy. The copy of any
permitted temporarv sign shall remain constant and shall not change at any time during the term
of the ermit.

Nothing in Subsection of this section may be construed as regulating the copy
ot? a temporarv sign in any wav or as any other form of content-based regulation, but solely the
regulate the abilitv to change such copv during the term of the temporarv sign permit.

(0) Nothing in Subsection of this section may be construed as prohibiting any

maintenance. repair. or replacement of a temporary sign. or any of its components, as may be

98
AIS-08091 1-31-19

necessary to keep such sign in good repair. in accordance with Section 44-8 of this Code.

including the replacement of a damaged Sign face with a new sign face containing the same copy.

Sec. 4-4-185. General temporary sign standards.

Any temporary sign that is permissible under this division is subject to the following

standards:



(5)

(6)

AIS-08091

Pira?emei-u. Any temporary sign shall be located so as to avoid obstruction of or
interference with the safe and ef?cient ?ow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic. or
impact the accessibility of ingress or egress of any building or structure. A
temporary sign located in the public right?of?way is further subiect to approval by
the Department of Public Works, or other public agency with jurisdiction over the
?ghtuof-way in which the sign is to be located.

Material. Temporary signs shall be constructed of durable material and
construction, and shall be adequately secured so as to be reasonably able to
withstand deterioration, damage, or destruction due to inclement weather, the
forces of wind, rain, and snow, and other impacts.

Grind repair. Any temporary sign shall be maintained in good repair, in accordance
with Section 4-4-8 of this Code.

Nirrminnrion. Any temporary sign may he externally illuminated but shall not he
internally illuminated.

Dynamic. A temporary sign that is constructed as a ground sign may be dynamic,
but not animated.

Additional standards. Any temporary Sign is further subiect to all general Sign

standards set forth in Division 2 of this Article, based on the type of construction

99
1?31-19

operation of the temporary sign, unless comparable standards set forth in this
Division are more restrictive.
Sec. 4-4-186. Removal of temporary signs.

Any temporary sign, along with its frame and supporting structure, shall be
removed by the owner of the premises on which sign is located, or its agent, within 24hours after
expiration of its permit.

Any temporary sign. along with its frame and supporting structure, that is not
maintained in good repair shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which sign is located.
or its agent, within 24 hours after written notice to remove such sign, in accordance with Section
4?4-8 of this Code.

Any temporary sign. along with its frame and supporting structure that becomes
obsolete, shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such sign is located, or its agent,
within 24 hours after becoming obsolete, in accordance with Section 4-4-9 of this Code. A
temporary sign becomes obsolete immediately upon the conclusion of the occasion to which such
sign is intended to draw attention.

Sec. 4-4-187 - 4-4-200. Reserved.

Section 2. This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace, health,
safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 3. All ordinances or parts of ordinances that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 4. In the event this ordinance is passed by two?thirds majority of City Council
Member serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon publication in

accordance with Section 4?1 18 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this ordinance is passed

100
A18-08091 1-31-19

OONICD

by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it shall become effective
on the thirtieth (30) day after enactment, or on the ?rst business day thereafter, in accordance with
Section 4?1 18 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

mam

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

101
A18-08091 1-31-19

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

   

 


2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629 

HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT - 



February 1, 2019
Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226 

Re: Request for a Public Hearing on behalf of The Platform (Petition 556) to Establish an
Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District, in the area of 22000?22020 Grand River,
Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000.

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department has reviewed the application of The Platform
and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by PA. 146 of 2000 and would be consistent with
development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Prior to acting upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and
the City Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing
body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem tax within the eligible district, said notice is to be
made not less than 10 days or more than 30 days prior to your Honorable Body?s adoption of said

resolution.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of establishing an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

ReSpectfully submitted,

mm

Kelly R. Vickers
Associate Director

KV/vf

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, 
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a
resolution which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District within the
boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, The Platform has ?led an application for an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District
whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public
Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at
which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the
City, or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee
Room, 13th floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above
described application and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and
shall give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad
valorem tax within the City of Detroit.

 of Detroit

Janice ?5'1me OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy-City Clerk/Chiefofstaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, October 22, 2018

To The Department or Commission Listed Below

From; Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body?s directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DEPARTMENT

556 The Platform, request for Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
District at 22000-22020 Grand River, Detroit, MI 48219

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center I Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 . Fax (313) 224-1466

the platform .5011 Grand Blvd. SUITE #23l,0 NI 148202

August 31, 2018

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District at
22000-22020 Grand River, Detroit, MI 48219

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Development District for the property located at 22000-22020 Grand River Avenue, Detroit, MI

and described on Attachment A.

The buildings are owned by Pioneer Settler LLC a wholly owned subsidiary of
The Peter D. Julie F. Cummings Family Foundation (?Cummings Foundation"). They were
purchased at the Wayne County Tax Auctions in September and October of 2015. The buildings
will be developed by The Platform, which was established in 2016 when the acquisition of
Detroit?s iconic Fisher Building brought together Peter Cummings and Dietrich Knoer, with more
than 60 years of combined real estate experience in Detroit and other markets. They made a
conscious decision to build a platform that would contribute to the resurgence of Detroit?s
neighborhoods. To bring this dream to life they assembled a portfolio of properties and a team
blending seasoned professionals with young and diverse talent?talent that is destined to form
the next generation of great Detroit developers.

The project, named "The Obama Building?, is a proposed rehabilitation of 22000-22020
Grand River in Detroit, Michigan. The Platform plans to develop these two adjacent and
currently vacant buildings into one mixed-used retail and residential building. Plans include a
rehabilitation of the first floor to approximately 10,000 SF of retail with frontage on Grand River
Avenue, Lahser Road, and Redford Street, while the second floor will be converted to four
apartment units. The Obama Building development will also include the detached surface
parking lot at 17345 Lahser (?Surface Parking?). At a later date, The Platform also plans to
develop two additional nearby parcels at 21728-21748 Grand River into a commercial building
(?Sunflower Building?) and adjacent pedestrian alley (?Future Alley").

The parcels at 22000-22020 Grand River are eligible for establishment of an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Development District per the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act

(OPRA), PA 146 of 2000, as amended, as both buildings are functionally obsolete and blighted
as defined in section 2 of the Brownfield Redevelopment Financing Act, 1996 PA 381, MCL
125.2652. The rehabilitation of the building at 22000-22020 Grand River would not be
undertaken without our receipt ofthe Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act exemption
certificate. The rehabilitation is not feasible without the property?s designation as an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Development District, in addition to other incentives (such as
Michigan?s Community Revitalization Program grant) for the construction. After studying
comparable residential and retail market rents in the Downtown, Midtown, and New Center
area, we calculated $1.20 per square foot per month for residential units and $15.00 per square
foot gross per year for retail into our Proforma. The total cost before accounting for incentives
is $3.05 million and rent revenue alone would be insufficient to pay for these costs. The
redevelopment needs further assistance in order to be a viable project.

We anticipate that this development will create at least 14 full-time employees (FTE) for
the building?s construction. An additional 5?10 will be created for the retail spaces.

We have a funding agreement with Horizon Bank, a firm based in Michigan City, IN, to
finance the rehabilitation of The Obama Building. See the term sheet in Attachment C.

We request a 12-year tax exemption for 22000-22020 Grand River. This should allow
sufficient time for the construction phase, occupancy stabilization, and for the market rent
values to increase to a rate that will support the financing and operating costs of the property.

The development of this property is extremely advantageous to the City of Detroit. The
Obama Building plans include the restoration and adaptive reuse of two historic structures.
These vacant and blighted structures will be converted to viable storefronts and residences. As
a result, the intersection of Grand River Lahser will be enhanced while neighborhood
residents, businesses, and property owners will benefit from economic opportunity, increased
commercial activity, and rising property values. To accomplish this, incentives and grants must
be utilized to keep rents at accessible rates for entrepreneurs who are unable to attract outside
start-up capital but are poised to be strong operators in sustainable spaces. incentives will also
attract project equity investors interested in conservative moderate returns coupled with social

impact.

The Obama Building will also provide an essential piece in the development of a
transportation hub at the intersection of Grand River and Lahser. The public and private
sectors? recent and future investment in the Grand River Corridor will make the intersection at
the PrOperty a central location for dining and shopping in the district. The development will also
provide new business opportunities for local retail tenants. The retail spaces will be occupied by
businesses that will activate this intersection. We are looking for retail tenants who will create
an environment that is welcoming to Detroit?s diverse communities. As such. we continue to
reach out to minority business owners who are looking for an opportunity to grow their
business in the area. We look forward to forming partnerships with our retail tenants to plug
into the culture and fabric of the neighborhood, cultivate a regular customer base, excite the

sidewalk, and create an enjoyable place for people to celebrate life together over food and
drink.

Pioneer Settler LLC is owned by The Peter D. Julie F. Cummings Family Foundation. All
ofthe property?s city property taxes are current for 22000-22020 Grand River (please see
Attachment D). With well thought-out building designs, focused emphasis on innovative
placemaking, and close engagement with the community, we plan to rehabilitate the property
at 22000?22020 Grand River, increase the neighborhood?s density of residents, and attract a
diverse array of local businesses. However, this project will not be financially feasible without
designation as an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District. Thank you for taking the time to
review this request. We look forward to hearing from you soon.

Respectfully submitted,

l?M? liA Arr?m -

Dietrich Knoer, Authorized Representative
On behalf of Pioneer 8: Settler LLC

Attachment A: Project Overview
Attachment B: Site Map of the Parcels of Property] Legal Description
Attachment C: Horizon Bank?s Term Sheet

cc: K. Bridges, DEGC
N. Marsh, DEGC
D. Bolton, Planning

Attachment A: Project Overview

General description of the facility:

22000-22020 Grand River consists of two buildings: a two-story 5,200 square foot structure built
in 1914 as the People?s State Bank of Redford, and a one-story 7,900 square foot structure built
in 1949 as a commercial retail building. Both of these structures were most recently used as
retail stores including a pinball arcade and African-Carribean market.

Proposed use of the rehabilitated facility:

Our project focuses on rehabilitating 22000-22020 Grand River into a mixed-use structure with
ground level retail space and residential units on the second ?oor. The small retail spaces are
well suited for small businesses, especially those related to food and drinks. The residential units
provide the ideal size living space for residents looking to take advantage of the amenities along

the Grand River corridor.

Description of the general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be undertaken:

22000-22020 Grand River has been abandoned for many years. The current building is
uninhabitable and structurally unsafe. The building?s interior needs to be completely demolished
and rehabilitated to meet City code. We will rehabilitate the existing building by historically
restoring the exterior and retaining the unique character of its facade while adding ground ?oor
storefront glass. The two-story mixed-used structure will provide approximately 9,600 SF of ?rst

?oor retail space and 3,000 SF across four residential units.

A descriptive list of the ?xed building equipment that will be a part of the rehabilitated
facility:

The ?xed building equipment that will be part of the rehabilitated facility includes materials for:
- Residential utilities such as heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, electricity, and

plumbing and water boiler;
- Retail utilities including heating, ventilation, air?conditioning, electricity, and plumbing

and water boiler;

- Install new sprinkler system;
- Extensive drywall work, all new doors and windows, new flooring (hardwood, titles, and

carpet);
- New kitchen appliances (range, dishwasher, waste disposal) for all residential units, etc.

A time schedule for undertaking and completing the rehabilitation of the facility:

Construction will take about ?ve months and is scheduled to be completed in mid 2019. Thus,
we plan to commence pre-leasing in the Winter. Please see our projected timeline below:

June 2018 to November 2018:
- Obtain legal, architectural, and zoning clearances, obtain construction permit.

the Platform

2018?10-22 5 5 6

556 Petition of The Platform, request for
Establishment of an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation District at 22000-
22020 Grand River, Detroit, MI 48219

 

REFERRED TO FOLLOWING DEPARTMENTIS)

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION

LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DEPARTMENT

   
 

COLMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
I 2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313)224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
T0: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization
FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development
RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Obsolete Property District at 22000 Grand River
DATE: December 21, 2018
CC: Maurice Cox, Director

In order to ensure that the creation of an Obsolete Property District is in conformance with the City's
Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial activity; create,
retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase the number of residents in
a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 146 of 2000 (section 125.2788), the Planning and
Development Department submits the following interpretation. The Petitioner of this project is The
Platform.

Project Description:
Project plans to develop two vacant buildings into one mixed-used retail and residential building. Plans

include a rehabilitation of the first floor to approximately of retail with frontage on Grand
River Avenue, Lahser Road, and Redford Street. The second floor will be converted to four apartment
units. The development to include detached surface parking lot at 17345 Lahser.

Project Location:
22000 Grand River Avenue; 22020 Grand River Avenue

Interpretation:
The Master Plan Future General Land Use designation of the site is Mixed Town Center. Mixed - Town

Centers (MTC) are activity centers for a Cluster. They are often located at the intersection of two major
thoroughfares. Land uses include a commercial, entertainment and or institutional anchor with a mix
of support uses including or in close proximity to residential land uses. Town Centers are distinguished
from other activity centers by an emphasis on pedestrian orientation with wide sidewalks, building
facades built up to the lot line, street?front access to buildings and landscaping and street furniture 
benches and planters). Town Centers require strict design guidelines to maintain and enhance their
streetscapes, pedestrian orientation and overall character.

Note, the two properties are in a B3 zoning district, and are limited to one or two residential apartments
in a commercial building. lfthe project wishes to develop three or more residential units in a single
building, it constitutes a multi-family dwelling unit and the parcel will require a rezoning to allow this
proposed use.

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the area.

Attachment
Future General Land Use Map: Master Plan Neighborhood Cluster 8, Redford, Map #8-38

 

 

 

dfr) m? Tin/p

 

South?eld

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

utiw Ht gig/my
pm: 

Lgr?g?m 

EYE

  
    



 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 


i" 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.

 

Map 8-33

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Neighborhood Cluster 8
Redford

 

 

 

 

 

Future Land Use

I Low Density Residential (RL) Thoroughfare Commercial (CT) Mixed- Towri (MTC)
Low/Medium Density Residential (RLM) Special Commercial (CS) Recre 
Medium Density Residential (RM) Generallndustria (lG) - Re eiog naaIP ark(PR)

- High Density Residential (RH)

MajorCommerciai(CM)
Zn RetaiIC (CRC)

Neighborhood Commerc

ial (CN) Mixed . Residential/Industrial (MRI) Institutional 

. Priv 
i::j Airport (AP)
3 Cemetery (CEM)

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313)224-3011 - TTY2711

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 



  
  

November 5, 2018

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

CAYMC

Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District Pioneer Settler LLC
Address: 22000-22020 Grand River
Parcel Numbers: 22007824. and 22007822-3

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Obsolete PrOperty Rehabilitation
District located at 22000 22020 W. Grand River in the Old Redford area in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for creating Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Districts under PA 146 of 2000, as amended, is based on the
anticipation of increased market value upon completion of new construction and [or significant rehabilitation of existing
commercial property and commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not
necessarily generate additional market value.

The Platform on behalf of Pioneer Settler LLC plans to rehabilitate the two adjacent and currently vacant buildings into
one mixed used retail on the first floor and four apartment units on the second floor. The buildings consist of a 7,015
square foot two-story retail building built in 1923 and an 8,099 square foot one-story retail building built in 1949 located on
a total of .227 acres of land. Rehabilitation will includes interior demolition, restoring the exterior and retaining the unique
character of its facade and adding ground floor storefront glass as well as upgrading the mechanical, plumbing and
electrical systems, installing a new sprinkler system and build out of the facilities.

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 146 of 2000, as amended. It applies to blighted, functionally obsolete
and contaminated properties. "Rehabilitation," meaning that changes to quali?ed facilities that are required to restore or
modify the property, together with all appurtenances, to an economically efficient condition. Rehabilitation also includes
deficient or excessive height, new or improved fixed building equipment, including heating, ventilation, and lighting,
reducing multistory facilities to 1 or 2 stories, adding additional stories to a facility or adding additional space on the same
floor level not to exceed 100% of the existing floor space on that floor level, improved structural support including
foundations, improved roof structure and cover, floor replacement, improved wall placement, improved exterior and
interior appearance of buildings, and other physical changes required to restore or change the obsolete property to an
economically efficient condition.

A field investigation indicated that the proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District located at 22000-22020 w. Grand
River is eligible as it pertains to the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act under PA. 146 of 2000, as amended.

 

Cha es Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE OF ASSESSOR 

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District
Pioneer Settler LLC
Page 2

Property Address: 22000 Grand River

Parcel Number: 22007824.

Property Owner: Pioneer Settler LLC

Legal Description: GRAND RIVER 15 FT 3 2&1 EXC GRAND RIVER AS WD ALSO 18.90 FT ON LINE 36 31.50 FT 0N 
LINE OF 9 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ SAID LOTS A MC INTYRES ALLOTMENT L33 P72 PLATS, 22/388 71.04 IRREG

Property Address: 22020 Grand River

Parcel Number: 22007822-3

Property Owner: Pioneer Settler LLC

Legal Description: GRAND RIVER 7 THRU 5 EXC GRAND RIVER AS WD 8 12.5 FT 9 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ SD LOTS 4 8 FT
3 ALSO 27.27.50 FT 0F 90 FT OF VAC ALLEY ADJ SD LOTS A 
MC INTYRES ALLOTMENT L33 P72 PLATS, 22/388 90.63 IRREG

The legal description matches the OPRA district request.

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - TTY1711

(313) 224-1629



CITY OF DETROIT
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT

 

 

February 1, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for a Public Hearing on behalf of Howman?s Marina, LLC (Petition 602) to
Establish an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District, in the area of 14601 Riverside
Blvd., Detroit, Michigan, in accordance with Public Act 146 of 2000.

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department has reviewed the application of Howman?s
Marina, LLC and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria set forth by RA. 146 of 2000 and would be
consistent with development and economic goals of the Master Plan.

Prior to acting upon a resolution to recommend approval, a public hearing must be held, and
the City Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to the assessor and to the governing
body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem tax within the eligible district, said notice is to be
made not less than 10 days or more than 30 days prior to your Honorable Body?s adoption Of said

resolution.

We request that a Public Hearing be scheduled on the issue of establishing an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District. Attached for your consideration, please ?nd a resolution
establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,



Kelly R. Vickers
Associate Director

KV/vf

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, 
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 146 of 2000 (?the Act?) this City Council may adopt a
resolution which approves the application of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District within the

boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, Howman?s Marina, LLC has ?led an application for an Obsolete Property
Rehabilitation District whose boundaries are particularly described in the map and legal description
attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a Public
Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax exemption, at
which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad valorem taxes within the
City, or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on the 2019 in the City Council Committee
Room, 13th ?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the above
described application and be it finally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public and
shall give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities levying an ad
valorem tax within the City of Detroit.

Gli'tp at metrnit

Janice M. Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Cavern West
my dark Deputycity derk/U?efofStaff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Wednesday, December 12, 2018

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

AMENDMENT

Herewith, the following referral is a copy of Petition 602

 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT FINANCE DIV

602 Howman '5 Marina, LLC, request for the establishment of an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation District at 14601 Riverside Blvd, Detroit, MI 48215
under PA. 381 of1996.

NOTE: Attached please ?nd additional documentation for the above mentioned
petition.

PETITIONER IS AMENDING PETITION DUE TO:
602. See attached.

Please provide the City Council with a report relative to this petition within

four (4) weeks. Thanking you in advance.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 - Fax (313) 224-1466

Howman?s Marina, LLC
14601 Riverside 
Detroit, MI 48215
313.908.0484

11/20/2018

Detroit City Council

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave Suite 1340

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for the Establishment of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
District at 14601 Riverside Blvd, Detroit, MI 48215

Honorable City Council:

Please accept this letter as a request to establish an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
Development District for the property located at 14601 Riverside Blvd, Detroit, MI
48215 and described on Attachment A.

Cmnpanv Summary:

Howman?s Marina, LLC is a company formed by Alex Howbert in 2015 to
facilitate the purchase and development of the subject property, a vacant and obsolete
marina in the Jefferson Chalmers neighborhood.

Alex Howbert is a lifelong Detroit Resident and a Cass Tech Graduate. After
attending the University of Michigan, Alex moved back to West Village in 2004 where
he still resides. Alex worked with the City of Hamtramck, managing their NSP2 grant,
served on the Economic Development Committee for the Villages Community
Development Corporation, and is a co-founder of the Detroit Institute of Bagels in
Corktown. Currently, Alex is focusing on this project, as well as his kayak tour company,
Detroit River Sports, which he founded in 2013.

The subject property will be renovated to accommodate Detroit River Sports, as
well as a bar restaurant tenant. The existing boat wells will be updated and put back into
service. The entire property will be renovated for commercial use.

Purpose l'or Establishment of the District

The Establishment of the District is essential for this project to move forward. In
order to Operate Detroit River Sports at the marina and offer a tenant space for the bar
restaurant the marina must be completely renovated and brought up to current code.

Given the age of the building and the damage in?icted while vacant, the project requires
a signi?cant capital investment, which includes a very sizeable loan. Additionally, the
maintenance and operating costs of a marina are significant.

Once construction is complete, the burden of higher property taxes, along with the
maintenance and Operational costs, and the cost of the debt service will make this project
cost prohibitive. In other words, the taxes must be abated in order to make the

project economically feasible.

Bene?ts to the City and Community:

The redevelopment of the marina will add to the community space along the river
and promote revitalizatioa by transforming an underutilized and worn structure into a
destination that adds value to the neighborhood.

1. Adding to the Community Space along the Detroit River. One of the greatest assets
for the Jefferson Chalmers neighborhood is the ample park space along the Detroit
River. To be exact there are 270 acres of City of Detroit parks along the river in the
neighborhood surrounding the location of the project. These adjacent parks serve the
community in many ways. There are athletic ?elds, playscapes, gathering spaces,
bbq?s, and boardwalk along the river that is highly utilized by ?shermen. In fact, the
City of Detroit, in partnership with the National Park Service and the EPA, is
investing over $5 million into these parks. Our project will further these efforts by
adding commercial space in the area. A place to gather with friends on along the
water for lunch or dinner or access the river on a kayak tour.

2. Promote Revitalization in the Area. The Project will promote economic, physical, and
social revitalization in the area.
Economic: The investment in this project is a continuation of many great
projects in the neighborhood. The economic impacts of this project are as
follows:

0 till-Time Jobs. The addition of two new businesses to the
neighborhood will add valuable permanent full-time jobs in the
neighborhood.

I Increased Income Tax Base. With new permanent full time positions
comes additional income tax base for the City of Detroit

0 Tourism. As this is a destination project that includes a tour company
it encourages tourism in the city. People love to see the city from the
water and it is a beautiful site to see.

0 Construction Jobs. The project will generate approximately 35 full
time equivalent temporary construction jobs

Physical: The project will impact the physical landscape in the following
ways:

Visual Improvement. The restoration of a beloved marina in the
neighborhood will add to the tremendous work of the city in the
neighborhood and speci?cally the adjacent parks.

- Neighborhood Vibrancy. People always stop by the marina when they

see someone there to talk about how busy it used to be. This is clearly
a cherished property I the neighborhood and reactivating it will be
welcomed by all.

Proving a Concept. The improvement of the marina will likely
demonstrate to owners of nearby properties that there is an good
reason to improve their commercial boat wells along the canals to
fetch market value rents.

Social: The social impacts of the project are as follows:

Walkability. By improving this commercial space adjacent to city
parks along the water we are adding a valuable resource to the

walkability of the area.

0 Alignment with City Goals. Given the large investment in the adjacent

Summary:

city parks this project only serves to further the goals in the area to
revitalize a beautiful corner of the city along the waterfront.
Gathering Space. This project will provide greater access for
neighbors to come together in a public space to enjoy dining on the
water.

The project will bene?t the City of Detroit at various levels.

1.

Activates a vacant marina bringing new life to a much beloved building
in a vibrant corner of the city. This marina was a very popular destination
when it was a fully functioning business. People from near and far visit this
area as it is a top ?shing destination with amble access to the water via the
boat ramp next door and the public parks along the water.

Creates jobs in construction as well as full time jobs for the life of the
project. In addition to the 35 or so full time equivalent temporary
construction jobs the new retail space will create approximately 20 full time
positions in the businesses that will occupy the renovated space.

Increase retail offerings of the Jefferson Chalmers neighborhood. We are
extremely proud to be a part of the fabric of the Jefferson Chalmers
neighborhood. There are several new and existing businesses up the street
from us on Jefferson. Community businesses are stronger in numbers and we
are happy to add to that density of businesses. The more people visiting local
businesses the better off we all will be.

Timeline:
This project is scheduled to begin construction by Feb 2018. The estimated
schedule indicates a completion of the project in June for the property owner?s scope of

work.

Elig'bility:

Howman?s Marina is classi?ed as functionally obsolete according to the
de?nition in Act 381 of 1996, ?the property is unable to be used to adequately perform
the function for which it was intended due to a substantial loss in value.? The building is
currently not being utilized to its highest and best use and, as a result, the building is
vacant. The loss in value has resulted primarily from the following items:

0 The ?oor plans must be recon?gured for the best and highest use.

- All heating, cooling, plumbing, and electrical systems will have to be replaced

due to outdated conditions, stolen components, or being damaged beyond
repair.

All taxes on the property are current. We respectively ask for a twelve year abatement

of the taxes to ensure its success. Without an abatement no project at this site is
economically feasible.

Property Ownership: Howman?s Marina, LLC

Address: 14601 Riverside Blvd, Detroit, MI 48215

Parcel 21-000124-9

Legal Description: The following is the legal description of the proposed project.

 

Lots 43 49, Lighthouse Subdivision, as recorded in Liber 25, Page 78 of Plats, Wayne
County Records

Respectfully sulnnitted,



Company semulivc

Alex Hnwbe?? lac-ML 0;

H014) mm; Mar/14? [.pc

Attachment A: Site Map that includes the parcel(s) of property Legal Description
Attachment B: Paid Receipt of Current Taxes

cc: K. Bridges, DEGC
N. Marsh, DEGC
V. Farley, HR

Animall?lf'

(":1.l
3' IL 

IN:

.015.OOL 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i villi]!
:22 52:2 3'35! 
ggia 5 1

 



i?yi

:13.


In

 

 

 

 

 

 


i . I


WP

:Nouaraosaa 

rm me 3mm :01 (2322222223:
HAHNS 39V91HOW

 

 

 

Attachment 

Fran-?y Am 1:001 RIVERSIDE awn

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I '34qu .
. - -. I 
201 3 CITY OF DETROIT . as; 0' 830.5; I. 
SUMMERTAX BILL . I0 .- 4.: - 
an Ear?!) 
I u: 
OEWRTMENT 26?? Imus-am I Iowan so I3
CITY OF DETROIT . PROPERTY TAX
POBOXSSMO 1 It. 
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48255-2603 .-. . . r: 
HOWMANS MARINA 
645 GRISWOLD ST STE 3900
DETROIT MI 48226
TAXING UNIT- RATE. I TAX AMOUNT I. INFORMATION- SEE REVERSE SIDE
6 mood I PARCEL 21wo12?9
GENERAL CITY l9 ?bx-II 2 011
2 ?131 m: E. SCHOOL DISTRICT 82010
SCHOOL DEBT Ia I .149 .. SEV 191m
SCI-IDOL OPERATING 13 mm I 559 I TAXABLE VALUE 103-342
TAX 5 Mm- 586 PREIMBT ex. 0
we HESA ENI-I I am 20? PROP CLASS 201-COMMERCIAL
INEPEETIDN FEE 100 .

PARTIAL PROPERTY DESCRIPTION
I Ill 
RIVERSIDE 43 THRU sun L28 PLATE. 
I 2If29622510 IRREG

Tow Summor Rut. 76.23100 I - SUMMER TAXES PAYABLE IN FULL JULY 1. 2018 - AUGLIST 20 I a
7 9,5 95 WITHOUT INTEREST AND PENALTY.
gm? Fm, a - SUMMER MAY ALSO BE PAID IN Two PAYMENTS WITHOUT
79 1 INTEREST AND PENALTY. IST PAYMENT DUE AUGUST I s. 2013
AND 2ND PAYMENT DUE JANUARY 15. 2019.
TOTAL DUE: 
mu Payment mam-916 4.04155 IMPORTANT INFORMATION - SEE REVERSE SIDE.
and Du. mums 4,041.55

- Pay usIng mahIIa aw.
RETAIN THIS TOP PORTION FDR YOUR RECOEEJS. ?slum 
YOUR CANCELLED CHECK IS YOUR RECEI w?


 

1013 SUMMER PROPERTY TA): . RETURN a9} TOM PORTION WITH YOUR PAYMENT I I 

 

 

 

 



2018-12-06 602

602 Petition of Howman 's Marina, LLC,
request for the establishment of an
Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
District at 14601 Riverside Blvd,
Detroit, MI 48215 under PA. 146 of
2000.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION LAW DEPARTMENT

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DEPTIASSESSMENTS DIV.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
5: 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

January 9, 2019

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning Development Department
2 Woodward Ave, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District
Address: 14601 Riverside Boulevard
Parcel Number: 21000124-9

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Of?ce of the Chief Financial Officer, Office of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation
District located at 14601 Riverside Boulevard located in Jefferson Chalmers area of the City of Detroit.

The rationale for creating Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Districts under PA 146 of 2000, as amended, is based on the
anticipation of increased market value upon completion of new construction and [or significant rehabilitation of existing
commercial property and commercial housing property. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not
necessarily generate additional market value.

Howman?s Marina LLC plans to redevelop the vacant property by recon?guring the floor plan and replacing all heating,
cooling plumbing and electrical components in the building in order to operate Detroit River Sports at the marina and offer
tenant space for the bar restaurant along with updating the existing boat wells. The property is a 3,800 square foot, one-
story vacant mixed use building built in 1964 on .642 acres of land.

This property meets the criteria set forth under PA 146 of 2000, as amended. It applies to blighted, functionally obsolete
and contaminated properties. "Rehabilitation," meaning that changes to qualified facilities that are required to restore or
modify the property, together with all appurtenances, to an economically efficient condition. also includes
major renovation and modification including, but not necessarily limited to, the improvement of ?oor loads, correction of
deficient or excessive height, new or improved fixed building equipment, including heating, ventilation, and lighting,
reducing multistory facilities to 1 or 2 stories, adding additional stories to a facility or adding additional space on the same
floor level not to exceed 100% of the existing floor space on that floor level, improved structural support including
foundations, improved roof structure and cover, floor replacement, improved wall placement, improved exterior and
interior appearance of buildings, and other physical changes required to restore or change the obsolete property to an
economically efficient condition.

A field investigation indicated that the proposed Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District located at 14601 Riverside
Boulevard is eligible as it pertains to the Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act under P.A. 146 of 2000, as amended.

Sinc y,

Charles Ericson
Assessor/ Board of Assessors



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE OF 

Obsolete Property Rehabilitation District
14601 Riverside Boulevard
Page 2

Address: 14601 Riverside Blvd.

Parcel Number: 21-000-124-9

Property Owner: Howman?s Marina LLC

Legal Description: RIVERSIDE 43 THRU 49 LIGHTHOUSE SUB L25 P78 PLATS, 21/296 225.10 IRREG


- 5-:

 

COLMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Obsolete Property District at 14601 Riverside
Boulevard

DATE: January 10, 2019

CC: Maurice Cox, Director

In order to ensure that the creation of an Obsolete Property District is in conformance with the
City?s Master Plan of Policies and will have the reasonable likelihood to increase commercial
activity; create, retain or prevent a loss of employment; revitalize an urban area; or increase
the number of residents in a community, pursuant to State of Michigan, Public Act 146 of 2000
(section 125.2788), the Planning and Development Department submits the following
interpretation.

Petitioner: Howman?s Marina LLC.

Proiect Description: The project seeks to develop a vacant and obsolete marina in the Jefferson
Chalmers neighborhood. Property will be renovated to accommodate Detroit River Sports,
applicant?s kayak tour company, a bar/restaurant, and to update existing boat wells and place
them back into service.

 

Proiect Location: 14601 Riverside Boulevard

Interpretation:
The Master Plan Future General Land Use designation of the site is Low Density Residential.

Low Density Residential areas should have an overall density of up to 8 dwelling units per net
residential acre. The areas are often characterized by single family homes with front yard
setbacks and driveways with garage or off street parking.

While the proposed development does not align with the Master Plan's Future General Land
Use, the proposed uses of the application, one of which is already operating (kayak tour
company), would be a continuance of an existing use and the remaining proposed uses are
allowed by the current zoning, B4 (General Business District). With this, the Planning and
Development Departments finds these uses compatible in this context.

Attachment
Future General Land Use Map: Master Plan Neighborhood Cluster 3, East Riverside, Map 

 

 

 

 

i


 

Subject Site

- . 14601 Riverside 

Boulevard

 



 

      

 

 

Map 3-3B

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Neighborhood Cluster 3
East Riverside

 

 

 

Future Land Use

Low Density Residential (RL)
Low I Medium Density Residential (RLM)
Medium Density Residential (RM)
- High Density Residential (RH)
Major Commercial (CM)
Retail Center (CRC)
Neighborhood Commercial (ON)
a Thoroughfare Commercial (CT)

  

Special Commercial (CS)
fl; General industrial (IG)
Light Industrial (IL)

a Distribution I Part Industrial (IDP)

Mixed - Residential I Commercial (MRO)
Mixed - Residential! Industrial (MRI)
[2 Mixed-Town Center (MTC)

a Recreation (PRC)

Regional Park (PR)

Private Man'na(PRM)

Airport (AP)

Cemetery (CEM)

institutionaluNST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1629
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

 

 

 

 

January 29, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Request for Public Hearing to Establish a Commercial Redevelopment District
for Tellevation II, LLC, in the area of 110 E. Ferry St., Detroit, Michigan, in
accordance with Public Act 255 of 1978. (Petition #555)

Honorable City Council:

The Housing and Revitalization Department has reviewed the request Of Tellevation II,
LLC to establish a Commercial Redevelopment District, and ?nd that it satis?es the criteria
set forth by Public Act 255 of 1978 and that it would be consistent with the development and
economic goals of the Master Plan.

Per Public Act 255 of 1978, prior to acting upon the resolution to approve a district, a public
hearing must be held, and the City Clerk must provide written notice of the public hearing to
the assessor and to the governing body of each taxing unit that levies an ad valorem tax
within the eligible district, said notice to be made not less than 10 days or more than 30
days prior to your Honorable Body?s adoption of said resolution.

We request that a public hearing be scheduled on the issue of adopting a resolution to
establish a new commercial rehabilitation district. Attached for your consideration, please
?nd a resolution establishing a date and time for the public hearing.

Respectfully submitted,

Donald Rencher
Director

DR/vf

cc: S. Washington, Mayor's Of?ce
M. Cox, PDD
D. Rencher, HRD
V. Farley, HRD

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

WHEREAS, pursuant to Public Act No. 255 of 1978 (?the Act?) this City Council may
adopt resolution which approves the request to establish a Commercial Redevelopment
District within the boundaries of the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, Tellevation II, LLC, has requested that a Commercial Rehabilitation District
be established as particularly described in the legal description and illustrated in the map
attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, prior to such approval, the City Council shall provide an opportunity for a
Public Hearing, at which Public Hearing on such adoption of a resolution providing such tax
exemption, at which Public Hearing representatives of any taxing authority levying ad
valorem taxes within the City, or any other resident or taxpayer of the City of Detroit may
appear and be heard on the matter.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that on 2019 in the City Council Committee
Room, 13th ?oor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, a Public Hearing be held on the
above described application and be it ?nally

 

RESOLVED, that the City Clerk shall give notice of the Public Hearing to the general public
and shall give written notice of the Public Hearing by certi?ed mail to all taxing authorities
levying an ad valorem tax within the City of Detroit, such notices to be provided not less
than 10 days or more than 30 days before the date of the hearing.

Qtitp of hermit

Janice M- OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk/Chief of Staff

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Monday, October 22, 2018

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DEPARTMENT

555 Tellevation II, LLC, request to establish a Commercial Redevelopment District
pursuant to 1978 PA 255, as amended, for property at 110 E. Ferry Street.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 - Fax (313) 224-1466

 

Richard A. Barr

HONIGMAN

(313) 465-7308

 

Honigman Miller Schwartz and Cohn LLP Fax: (313) 465-7309
Attorneys and Counselors rbarr@honigmau.com
By Hand Delivery

October 15, 2018

Of?ce of Detroit City Clerk

2 Woodward Avenue

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Suite 200

Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Request for Establishment of a Commercial Redevelopment District Pursuant to 19 78
PA 255, as amended, for property at 110 E. Ferry Street.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

On behalf of Tellevation II LLC (?Company?), enclosed is a request that the City Council
establish a commercial redevelopment district pursuant to 1978 PA 255, as amended, for the
property located at 110 E. Ferry Street. The Company is the owner of 100% of the state equalized
value of the property which would be in the proposed new district.

The property quali?es to be established as a commercial redevelopment district because it
is obsolete commercial property which has been zoned commercial for 3 years before June 21,
1978, and the area (which includes nearby property) is or was characterized by obsolete
commercial property and a decline in commercial activity. The property is obsolete commercial
property because its condition is impaired due to changes in design, construction, technology or
general neglect, warranting the substantial investment the Company proposes to make a substantial
investment in the property. The investment will facilitate a ?restoration? of the property within the
meaning of PA 255. Additional information on the obsolescence, other qualifying factors,
investment and proposed upgrade of the hotel is provided in the enclosed request. An application
for a commercial facilities exemption certi?cate will be ?led in the near future.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.
Very truly yours,

Honigman Miller Schwartz and Cohn LLP
.
I . 
I. ?in: z' 
Richard A. Barr
Enclosure

 

2290 First National Building - 660 Woodward Avenue - Detroit, Michigan 48226-3506
Detroit - Ann Arbor - Bloom?eld Hills - Chicago - Grand Rapids - Kalamazoo - Lansing

28999999.}

PETITION TO ESTABLISH COMMERCIAL REDEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
October 15, 2018

I. Introduction

Tellevation II LLC, a Michigan limited liability company (?Owner?), requests the
establishment of a Commercial Redevelopment District pursuant to Section 5 of the Commercial
Redevelopment Act, PA 255 of 1978, MCL 207.655, to support the planned rehabilitation and
restoration of the property located at 110 E. Ferry Street in the City of Detroit. The proposed
district consists of tax parcel Ward 1, Item 001493. The Owner owns 100% of the state equalized
value of the commercial property located in the proposed district.

Please see Attachment A for the parcel legal description and Attachment for a
depiction of the proposed district.

11. Eligibility of Property

The property is obsolete commercial property which is part of an existing, developed
commercial zone which has been zoned commercial for three years before June 21, 1978, and the
area is or was characterized by obsolete commercial property and a decline in commercial
activity within the meaning of Act 255.

The property is considered obsolete commercial property within the meaning of
MCL 207.654(3) because it is commercial property the condition of which is impaired
due to changes in design, construction and technology for commercial properties in
recent years. The property has been vacant since 2005.

To cure the commercial obsolescence, the Owner has acquired the preperty and
proposes to make substantial investments in improvements to the property's interior. The
Owner plans to gut and recon?gure the interior layout, retro?t the building?s systems,
restore existing architectural and design features and construct new interior

improvements.

Once the restoration and rehabilitation is complete, the property will open as a
commercial of?ce space. The property represents a new vision for co-working Spaces for
Detroit. Situated in a remarkable Victorian home, it will offer individuals and teams to
enjoy the private and ?exible work spaces throughout the home with the opportunity to
be a part of meaningful dialogues with leading creatives and business leaders in the
Detroit community. The idea of 110 East Ferry is to foster the exchange of ideas and
experiences, to provide the place to encourages new ways of thinking, working and
socializing that extends into the Detroit community of art, fashion, politics, science, food,
wellness and business. The workspace is designed to meet the individual needs of an
entrepreneur and creative leaders from a private desk for one to a permanent of?ce for an
entire team. The property will also offer dynamic spaces for private events, allowing for
the experience to be interactive, immersive and inspiring. The Owner is creating
something not only unique among co-working spaces but to the City itself.

289990791

 The area surrounding the property, particularly to the north of the property, is
characterized by obsolete commercial property.

Ownership of Property
The parcel(s) is owned by Tellevation II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.

28999079. 1

ATTACHMENT A

Legal Description of Proposed Commercial Redevelopment District

Land situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, being more particularly described
as follows:

The north 110.48 feet of Lot 20 of Plat of D.M. Perry?s Subdivision of Park Lot No. 41,
according to the plat thereof as recorded in Liber 10 of Plats, Page 4 of Wayne County
Records.

Easement parcel:

Together with a non-exclusive easement for ingress and egress of vehicular and
pedestrian traf?c, as set forth in Parking and Access Easement dated April 8, 2005, and
recorded June 7, 2005, in Liber 42853, Page 1000, Wayne County Records, and as
amended by that certain Amendment to Parking and Access Easement dated June 29,
2018, and recorded June 29, 2018, in Liber 54483, Page 646, Wayne County Records.

Commonly known as: 110 East Ferry, Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan

289990791

28999079.]



. r  u1 

0 mu
n' .chI

 

 

- 

 

 

 

L-..

rut-'113'1'

  
  

 

C?rl?a' 


 

?0 E. FERRY 5T
TAX to N0.
WARD ITEM 00149.]
0 169 ACRES
FERRY ST. (80 FEET MOEltl..l.  I. I 1  4? . Il.? .. I Iran-tr38.9w a

 

.l-uJ . 

ATTACHMENT 
Depiction of Proposed Commercial Redevelopment District

2018-10-22 555

555 Petition of ellevation II, LLC, request
to establish a Commercial
Redevelopment District pursuant to
1978 PA 255, as amended, for
property at 110 E. Ferry Street.

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION

LAW DEPARTMENT FINANCE DEPARTMENT

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY 013? DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

 
 
 

November 5, 2018

Maurice Cox, Director

Planning 8: Development Department
2 Woodward Ave, CAYMC

Suite 810

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Commercial Redevelopment District ?Tellevation ll LLC
110 E. Ferry
Parcels Numbers: 01001493.

Dear Mr. Cox:

The Of?ce of the Chief Financial Of?cer, Of?ce of the Assessor, has reviewed the proposed Commercial Rehabilitation District located
at 110 E. Ferry in the Midtown district in the City of Detroit.

The rationale for creating Commercial Redevelopment Districts under PA 255 of 1978, as amended, is based on the anticipation of
increased market value upon completion of new construction and/or significant restoration of commercial and former industrial
property where the primary purpose and use of which is the operation of a commercial business enterprise and shall include office,
engineering, research and development, warehousing parts distribution, retail sales, hotel or motel development, and other
commercial facilities. Commercial business enterprise also includes a business that owns or operates a transit-oriented development
or a transit-oriented facility. Normal repair and maintenance are not assessed and do not necessarily generate additional market value.

The district as proposed by the Tellevation ll LLC consists of a 2?story rooming house with 4,541 square feet of building area built in
1900 on .177 acres of land. The proposed project consists of gutting and reconfiguring the interior layout, retrofitting the building?s
systems, restoring existing architectural and design features and construct new interior improvements converting the building into
commercial of?ce workspace with dynamic spaces for private events.

This area meets the criteria set forth under PA 255 of 1978, as amended. It applies to functionally obsolete properties requiring
restoration meaning changes to obsolete commercial property other than replacement as may be required to restore the property,
together with all appurtenances, to an economically efficient condition.

A field investigation and district request review indicated that the proposed Commercial Redevelopment District located at 110 E.
Ferry is eligible as it pertains to the Commercial Redevelopment Act under P.A. 255 of 1978, as amended.

Sincer y,

Charles Ericson, MMAO
Assessor, Board of Assessors



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313)224-9400
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

Commercial Redevelopment District
Tellevation ll LLC
Page 2

Property Address: 110 E. Ferry

Parcel Number: 01001493.

Property Owner: Tellevation ll LLC

Legal Description: 5 FERRY 110.48 FT 20 FERRYS SUB L10 P4 PLATS, 1/82 70 110.

 

COLMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 . TTY: 711
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

TO: Veronica Farley, Housing and Revitalization

FROM: Esther Yang, Planning and Development

RE: Master Plan Interpretation for Commercial Redevelopment District at 110 E. Ferry
DATE: December 21, 2018

CC: Maurice Cox, Director

In order to ensure consistency with the City?s Master Plan of Policies, pursuant to State of
Michigan, Public Act 255 of 1978 (section 207.655), the Planning and Development
Department?s Planning Division submits the following interpretation for the proposed
establishment of a Commercial Redevelopment District.

Petitioner:
Tellevation ll, LLC

Project Description:

Rehabilitation and restoration of the property to open as a commercial office space. The
property seeks to establish private and flexible co-working spaces for leading creatives (art,
fashion, politics, science, food, wellness) and business leaders in the Detroit community.
Property will also offer dynamic spaces for private events.

Project Location:
110 E. Ferry

Interpretation:
The Master Plan Future General Land Use designation of the site is Mixed - Residential 

Commercial (MRC). These areas consist primarily of high density housing developed compatibly
with commercial and/or institutional uses. This classification is well suited to areas proximal to
existing centers of major commercial activity, major thoroughfares, transportation nodes or
gateways into the City. This project does not adversely impact the existing character of the
neighborhood.

The proposed development conforms to the Future General Land Use characteristics of the
area.

Attachment
Future General Land Use Map: Master Plan Neighborhood Cluster 4, Lower Woodward,

Map #4-53

 


$43.63.






 

A


.
4v 

Lila:- ..

(MRO
. if ?t ?3 
(a 

ii! 
c?i??t 

~31
555?
if

it4.3$3,.th .J 
.r



IEllMap 4-53

City of Detroit
Master Plan of
Policies

Neighborhood Cluster 4
Lower Woodward

 

 

 

 

Future Land Use

Low Den5ity Residential (RL)

Thoroughfare CommerCial (CT)

Low I Medium Density Residential (RLM) Special Commercial (CS)

- Medium Density RESidential (RM)
- High Density Resuienllal (RH)
MajorCommercial (CM)

Retail Center (CRC)
Neighborhood Commercial (CN)

V451. General Industrial (IG)

Light Industrial (IL)

Distribution I Port Industrial (IDP)

Mixed Residential (Commercial (MRC)
Mixed Residential I Industrial (MRI)

9 Mixed . Town Center (MTG)
Recreation (PRC)

:1 Regional Park (PR)

Private Marina(PRM)
Airport (AP)

lag?I Ccmetery(CEM)

Institutional (INST)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City at Eetroit

CIW COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ
COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6

 

MEMORANDUM

TO: Donald Rencher, Director, Housing and Revitalization Department
Tamra Hardy, Director, Neighborhood Opportunity Fund Program
Marcel] Todd, Director, City Planning Commission

THRU: Council Member Brenda Jones, Council President
9" I
FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda?Lopez 
DATE: February 1, 2019
RE: Clark Park Coalition?s Application for FY 2019-20 CDBG-NOF

 

In light of the information provided by the Clark Park Coalition at the Community Development
Block Grant appeals hearing today, February I, 2019, I formally request that the consensus
committee re-evaluate their application for CDBG-Neighborhood Opportunity Funds.

Please do not hesitate to contact my of?ce if you have any questions. Thank you.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council
David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison
Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189


MEMORANDUM

TO:

CC:

FROM:
DATE:

RE:

(City of Eetrnit
CITY COUNCIL

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

 

Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit

Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk

Council President Brenda Iones {23%
February 1, 2019

Ordinance Request

Please draft an ordinance detailing the process for community engagement and notification
for the declaration of surplus property by the Detroit Planning and Development

Department.

RECEIVED FEB [112019

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226

(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 224?4095

- Jan. m.

DQD
(City of ?ztruit
CITY COUNCIL

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

 

MEMORANDUM
TO: Maurice Cox, Director

Planning and Development Department
CC: Honorable Colleagues

Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk
FROM: Council President Brenda Iones 
DATE: February 1, 2019
RE: Development Agreements

 

Please reSpond to the following requests related to developments that do not meet the terms
of their agreements:

1. Please provide a list of all development agreements since 2014.

2. Please include which agreements have met construction deadlines, as well as those
that have been revoked, have been clawed back, and the agreements are not currently
meeting their construction deadlines.

3. Please also include the Department?s plans to address any developments that have
not met construction deadlines.

FEB 1 201?]

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 224-4095

oasis?1m

MEMORANDUM

TO:

CC:

FROM:
DATE:

RE:

(City of Ectrm?t
CITY COUNCIL

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division

Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk

Council President Brenda Jones 5g
February 1, 2019

Michigan Senate Bill 54 and House Bill 4100

 

 

Please draft a resolution in support of Senate Bill 54/House Bill 4100 to reinstate the
Michigan historic preservation tax credit.

FEB 0121319

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226

(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 224-4095
ICE

GABE LELAND
COUNCIL MEMBER

TO:

THRU:

FROM:

DATE:

RE:

    

City of Detroit
CITY COUNCIL

 

 

MEMORANDUM

Arthur Jemison
Chief of Services and Infrastructure

Maurice Cox, Director
Planning Development Department

The Honorable Council President Brenda Jones


Council Member Gabe Leland"

January 25, 2019

Stalled Development Projects

The January 14 20, 2019 Crain?s Detroit Business front page article entitled, Kickstarting Big Plans, reported
a number of Detroit development projects involving an RFP, City-owned land and/or City subsidies are

stalled for various reasons.

Please provide a comprehensive list of development projects stalled beyond the original construction start
date that the City has dedicated resources (city-owned land, tax abatements, CDBG funds, etc). Please

include the following:



Cc:

gal

Name of Development

Location (street address and Council District)
Type and dollar value of dedicated City resources
Development Agreement Execution Date
Developer?s Original Start and Completion Dates

Honorable Detroit City Council Members
Mayor's Office, Stephanie Washington

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
Of?ce (313) 224?2151 Fax (313) 224-2155

