Mu: 
LONE 520 301?

BUD GET,
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING
COMMITTEE



This proposed ordinance amends Chapter 18 of the I984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation,
Article V, Purchases and Supplies, by adding Division 11, Detroit Supply Schedule, to include
Section 18-5-170, Purpose and intent: Section 18-5-171. De?nitions; Section 18-5-l72, Directed
by the Chief Financial Of?cer, managed by Chief Procurement O?icer; Section 18-5-173, Request
for Proposals; Section 18-5-174, Award of contracts; Section18-5-175, Reservation of thirty
percent of contracts for bidding by Detroit-certi?ed businesses; Section 18-5-176, Request for
quotations; Section 18-5-177. Outreach efforts; and Section l8-5-i78, Authorization for use by
other governmental units, to establish the Detroit Supply Schedule program for the purpose of
negotiating more favorable prices for frequently recurring purchases of goods or services, to
increase the speed and ef?ciency of obtaining such goods and services, and to facilitate the
development and growth of Detroit-certified businesses.

COUNCILMEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code. Finance and Taxation,
Article V, Purchases and Supplies, by adding Division Detroit Supply Schedule, to include
Section 18-5-?170, Purpose and intent; Section 18-5-171, De?nitions; Section 18-5-172, Directed
by the Chief inanciai O?'icer. managed by Chief Procurement O?icer; Section 18-5-173, Request
for Proposals; Section 18-5-174, Award of contracts; Section 18-5-175, Reservation of thirty
percent of contracts for bidding by Detroit?certi?ed businesses; Section [8-5-176, Request for
quotations; Section [8-5-177, Outreach e?orts; and Section 18-5-178, Authorization for use by
other governmental units. to establish the Detroit Supply Schedule program for the purpose of
negotiating more favorable prices for frequently recurring purchases of goods or services, to
increase the speed and ef?ciency of obtaining such goods and services, and to facilitate the
development and growth of Detroit-certi?ed businesses.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:
Section 1. Chapter 18 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Finance and Taxation, Article
V, Purchases and Supplies, be amended by adding Division 1 1, Detroit Supply Schedule. Sections
[8-5-170 through18-5-178 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 18. FINANCE AND TAXATION
ARTICLE V. PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES

DIVISION II. DETROIT SUPPLY SCHEDULE

 

Section 18-5-170. Pumose and intent.

The Detroit Supply Schedule Program is designed to procure commonly-used. recurring

goods and services at favorable prices generated bv high volume purchases. to increase the City?s

speed and ef?ciencv in obtainina these ?oods and services. and to advance the growth and

development of Detroit-certi?ed businesses.

Section 18-5-171. Definition;

For the oses of this division the followin words and hrases shall have the meanina

 

respectivelv ascribed to them but this section:

Detroit-card red business means an contractor that is certi?ed as a Detroit-based business

   

Detroit-based micro business concern. Detroit-based small business. Detroit-headquartered

business, or Detroit-resident business as those terms are de?ned in Section l8-5-l of this Code.
Detroit Supply Schedule means a schedule of inde?nite delivery-inde?nite quantitv

contracts to be awarded bv the Chief Procurement Of?cer for recurring goods and services divided

into broad categories of such goods and services.

Inde?nite quantirv contracts means contracts that establish a price and

 

other terms and conditions for the procurement of an inde?nite ouantitv. within stated limits. of

 

goods or services during a ?xed period of time. but do not specify the date or the quantitv of
dreliverv or performance. Such contracts must contain a maximum dollar amount. ore-negotiated
Drices. deliverv terms. warranties. and other terms or conditions that streamline the procurement
process.

Request for nroposais means a solicitation to communicate the Citv's rcouirements to
crescective contractors for enumerated goods and services bv which the Citv seeks proposals for

inde?nite deliverv?inde?nite ouantitv contracts for those goods or services as listed in the Detroit

Sapplg Schedule. Reguests for proposals shall describe the Citv?s requirements. anticipated terms
and conditions, information reguircd in the offeror?s proposal. and the criteria that wiIl be used to
evaluate the prop_osal and their relative importance.

 

 

Request for quotations mepps_a request for technical and price quotations from approved
Detroit Supply Schedule fer speci?c quantities of needs or services to be delivered or
performed bv a speci?c date or schedule of dates.

Reserved bidding schedule means those Detroit Supplv Schedule items or categories
reserved for bidding by Detroit-certi?ed businesses onlv.

Section 18-5-1722. Directed by Chief Financial Of?cer; managed by Chief Procurement

Officer.

in] The Detroit Supply Schedule program shall be directed bv the Chief Finapcial Of?cer

and implemented and managed by the Chief Procurement Of?cer.

 

 

The Chief Procurement Of?cer shall:

1) Issue Detroit Supplv Schedule publications that provide an overview of the

Detroit SUpply Schedule Program;

issue all reguests for proposals and associated guidelines issued pursuant to

this program; and
L3) Publish each awarded Detroit Supplv Schedule contract of covered goods
and services.
Le) The Detroit Supplv Schedule. publications. and guidelines shall be readily available

at the Of?ce of the Chief Financial Officer's website.

 

id] The Chief Financial Of?cer shall conduct an annual review of the program to

compare the prices paid by the City with market rates and to otherwise ensure that the Citv is

bene?tting from the program in terms of performance and price.

Everv ?ve vearsI beginning in 2024, the Chief Procurement Of?cer shall prepare a

report providing an overview of the Detroit Supplv Schedules program. The report shall be

forwarded to Citv Cou_ncil and osted on the Of?ce of the Chief Financial Of?cer?s website.

 

?gction 18-5-1733. Reouest for pmosals.

The Chief Procurement Of?cer mav issue a reouest for proposals for inde?nite

delivery-inde?nite quantity contracts for recurrina aoods and services as described and

 

enumerated for each Detroit Supply Schedule.

No contract shall be forwarded to Citv Council for its approval unless three or more

responses to the reg post for proposals are received.

m} The Chief Procurement Of?cer will select quali?ed contractors for approval ti!
Council based on the following factors:
Q) A determination that the offered prices for the goods or service are reasonable:
A determination that the prices being offered are canal to or better than the offeror's
current best discount to any customer: and
A review of the dollar value of sple_s to the general public during the [2 months

prior to the guest for proposals.

id} ?nalization factors. as described in Sections 18-5-12 and 18-5-13 of this Code.

shall not be applied in selecting guali?ed contractors under this section.

 

Following the evaluation of the proposals, the Chief Procurement Of?cer shall
?y_bmit the selected contractors for review and approval bv Detroit Citv Council pursuant to

Section [8-5?21 of this Code.

 

If) All responses must include a non-collusion statement on a form provided 

Chief Procurement Of?cer and signed by the responding contractor.



Section 13-55-174. Award of contracts.

Detroit Supplv Schedule contracts shall be awarded after Citv Council approval
pursuant to Section 18-5-21 of this Code.
lb: Detroit Supply Schedule contracts must contain:
I) Definite price terms for a fixed period of time. but shpiL not include speci?c
Quantities or delivery dates for the goods or services to be procured;

52] A pricelist for the goods and services to be procured by the contract; and
(3) A oricclist that contains the pricing, terms, and conditions related to the

Detroit Supply Schedule Item Number provided for the contract.

Contracts issued ursuanttothe DetroitSu 1 Schedule ro ramshall be valid for

 

a period of ?ve_vears and mav include an option to extend the contract for a maximum of an
additional ?ve years. subiect to Citv Council approval pursuant to Section 13?5?2] of this Code.

[d1 Goods and services included on the Detroit Supply Schedule must be procured from

approved Detroit Supply Schedule contractors following a request for quotations.
Section 18-5-175. Reservation of thirtv percent of contracts for bidding b1: Detroit-certi?ed

 

businesses.

Following review and approval of the reserved bidding schedule bv the Citv
Council. the Chief Procurement Of?cer shall reserve at least thirtv percent of the Detroit Supplv
SplLedule contracts for biddine restricted to Detroit-certi?ed businesses. However. if the Chief

Procurement Of?cer is dissatis?ed with the results of limited bidding under this section. the

 

Of?cer map re-issue the reopest for proposals without this limitation. The Chief Procurement

of?cer shall provide the City Council with a report detailing the reasons for the reiection of the

limited bidding.

lb) Citv Council shall review and approve the Detroit Supply Schedules Detroit-
certi?ed businesses reserved bidding schedule every; ?ve years.

Section 18-5?176. Request for quotations.
Following approval of Detroit Supply Schedule contracts in accordance with

Section 13-5-21 of this Code the Chief Procurement Of?cer ma issue re costs for notations for

 

speci?c deliverv and performance dates for goods and services.

The Chief Procurement Of?cer shall forward requests for quotations to all

approved contractors under the speci ?c Detroit Suqqlg Schedule Numbers and

 

such contractors shall be given a fair opportunitv to compete for the task or deliverv

order.

 

Re ucsts for notations shall rovide a reasonable eriod of time for res ease and

 
 

shall describe si ni?cant factors to be considered in evaluatin all res oases.

   

The equalization factors found at Section 18-5-12 and 18-5-13 of this Code shall
be applied in the award of task and deliverv orders under this section.

The Chief Procurement Of?cer shall select the lowest res onsiblc bidder or bidders

   

to ful?ll the request for quotations and issue a task or deliverv order to the selected
contractori 1.

The Chief Procurement Of?cer may select more than one eligible contractor to

ful?ll a request for quotations.

 

{bi Additional City Council approval shall not be required for the selection of Detroit

Su 1 Schedule contractors to rovide the oods sou are ucst for notations.

     

As stat_cd in Section 18?5?1211] of this Code. a Delroit-residenl business a Detroit-

 

hased business. or a maior venture or ioint?venture with a Detroit-resident business or Detroit-

based business, mav not assign or subcontract its Citv contracts to a non-Detroit-resident or a non-

Detroit?based business without the a roval of such assi nment or subcontract the Chief

     

Procurement Of?cer.

No task or deliverv order may; be awarded to a Detroit Supplv Schedule contractor
after the expiration of a Detroit Supplv Schedule contract unless Citv Council has approved a
renewal or extension of the original Detroit Suppl'tr Schedule contract.

Le) The Chief Procurement Of?cer shall provide City Council with notice of all task
and deliverv orders and the dollar value of such orders on a Quarterly basis.

Section 18-5-177. Outreach efforts.

The Chief Procurement Of?cer and the Director of the Civil Rights and Inclusion
Of?ce shall be responsible for the following efforts to encourage the participation of Detroit-
certi?ed businesses and Detroit residents in the procurement process:
Development of workshops, seminars. and educational materials regarding
contracting and the procurement processes;
(2) Sponsorship of at least two educational and outreach meeting?n each council
district each vear which will be coordinated with the Council?s two alt?large

members and the Councilmember for that district'

 

Pre aration of educational ro rams in collaboration with local colle es the

     

Detroit Public Schools Community DistrictLand other education providers to

encourage local entrepreneurship and develop the skills necessary for successful
participation in the competitive bidding process; and.

Submission of all Detroit Supplv Schedule requests for proposals to Council at the

time such roguests are released for bidding.

Section 186478. Authorization for use by other governmental units.
municipalities and counties. within Michienn. Illinois. Ohio. and Wisconsin. to procure goods and
services under the terms and conditions provide-:1 for in the Detroit Sunni; Schedules contracts.
Sections 18-5-17?) 136-190. Reserved.

Section This ordinance is hereby declared necessary to preserve the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 3.. Ali ordinances, or parts of ordinances, that con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 4. In the event this ordinance is passed by two-thirds majority of
City Council Member serving, it shall be given immediate effect and become effective upon
publication in accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter. Where this
ordinance is passed lay-lees than a two?thirds majority of City Council Members serving, it
Shall become effective on the thirtieth (30) day after enactment, or on the first business day
thereafter. in accordance with Section 4-1 ol' the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to form:

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

 

:City of Detroit

COUNCILMAN soorr R. BENSON 

MEMORANDUM

 

TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel

FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3

 

CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
Hon. Janee Ayers, Chair, Budget, Finance, Audit Standing Committee
Boysie Jackson, Purchasing
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President

DATE: 24 October 2018
RE: FAIR WAGE CONTRACT ORDINANCE

I am requesting the Law Department draft a fair wage ordinance, in accordance with the
memo dtd. 13 June 2018, which indicates a fair wage policy can be implemented by the
City of Detroit if it is ?reasonably related to a legitimate state interest.? 1 put forth that
reducing Detroit?s debilitating level of poverty is a legitimate state interest. Therefore,
using the 50:40 Poverty Reduction Plan as the rationale, please draft an ordinance, which
implements an equalization point strategy that rewards companies whose workers
predominately live in the City of Detroit and are paid a fair wage. Le. 75% or more of
the employees live in the City of Detroit and are paid $15 per hour.

If you have any questions do not hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224-1198

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave. Suite 1340 - Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224?1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

