72 32/6/19

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

 

OFFICE COORDINATORS REPORT
OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED El MA CANCELED
61st Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade

 

 

 

 

Petition 625 Event Name:
March 10, 2019

Event Date 

p.1-

 

Michigan Avenue
Organization Name: United Irish Societies
Street Address: 2068 Michigan Avenue Detroit, MI 48216

Street Closure:

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:
Date of City Clerk?s Departmental Reference Communication:
Due date for City Departments reports:

Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):

 

I: Walkathon I: Carnival/Circus I: Concert/Performance El Run/Marathon

El Bike Race Religious Ceremony Political Ceremony 1: Festival

Filming Parade Sports/Recreation Rally/Demonstration
Fireworks Convention/Conference Other:

24-Hour Liquor License

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)
61st Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade located in Corktown on Michigan Avenue from 1:00pm -
4:00pm.
ALL permits and license requirements must be ful?lled for an approval status 
Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
DPD Assisted Event; Contracted with
DPD I: NAIAS Security to Provide Private Security

Services

 

 

Pending Inspections; Contracted with Hart
Medical to Provide Private EMS Services



EMS

DPW DI

Health Dept. i ..

CLERK '29 JFIH 12

 

 

ROW Permit Required for Street Closure

El

 

 

 

No Permits Required



 

 

 

 

 

 

Date

Department NIA

APPROVED

DENIED

Additional Comments

 

 

 

 



Contracted with P000 to Provide
Barricades Signage

 

Recreation



No Jurisdiction

 

Safety 



Permits Required for Grandstands 
Generators

 

Bus. License



No Jurisdiction

 

 

Mayor?s
Of?ce 



All Necessary permits must be obtained
prior to event. If permits are not obtained,
departments can enforce closure of event.

 



Municipal 
Parking I



No Jurisdiction

 

 

 

DDOT

 

i




 



 

Low Impact on Buses

 

OFFICE 
SignaturezL?W 
Date: mm

 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Tuesday, January 08, 2019

o; The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
Within four (4) weeks.

 

OFFICE DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
POLICE DEPARTMENT FIRE DEPARTMENT
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL PARKING DEPARTMENT

625 United Irish Societies, request to hold st Annual Detroit St. Patrick?s
Parade along Michigan Ave. on March 1 0, 2019from 1:00 PM to 4: 00 PM
with a closure of michigna and set up and tyear down completed on the event
date, 3/ 0/19.

c925?

 

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful events are the result of advance planning, effective communication and teamwork. The
City of Detroit will be strictly adhering to the special events guidelines, please print them out for
reference. You are required to complete the information below so that the City of Detroit can gain a
thorough understanding of the scope and needs of the event. This form must be completed and
returned to the City of Detroit Clerk?s Of?ce at least ?as prior to the ?rst day of the event. If
submitted later than 60 days prior, application is subject to denial. Please type or print clearly and
attach additional sheets or maps as needed.

Section I- 

 

EventName: 61 9' Annual Detroit St. Patrick's Parade
Event ngg?on: Michigan Ave. Corktown. Detroit 
.Soctinn 2? (HUI-MN l?l?l.l IN Hill: 

Name: United Irish Societies

Organization Mailing Address: 2036 Ave.

 

          

 

Business Phone: 31 3.475.4675 Business Fax:
Federal Tax ms 38-2852489 501m) (3) Status see attached.
[fregtrtered as a non-pro?t, indicate non-pro?t ID number and attach a copy of the certificate.
Ann?cantName: Mlcha_e  L. Kellv
TitlelRole: President Brigade Chairman 
Email Address: mkellv?unit?rishdetroitoom
Mailing Address: 2068 Detroit. MI 48216
Business Phone: 313.475.4675 Business Fax:
Event On-Site Contact Person:
Address: Same

Mine-ed game Radar-gs Fe}:

 

List name/phone number ofperson(s) authorized to make decisions for the organization/event (indicate role/responsibility).

 

List Event Sponsors: United Il'iSh Societies, Ford Foundation 5; TBD

Event Elements (check all that apply)

]Walkathon ]Camival/Circus 
]Run/Marathon ]Bi'ke Race JReligious Ceremony
]Polit1'ca1 Event ]Festiva1 ]Filming

Parade ]Sports/Recreation ]Ra]ly/Demonstration
]Convention/Conference JFireworks []Other:

 

 

 

 

 

Provide a brief description of your event:

6,15.1  Annual Detroit St. Patrick?s Parade.

 

Over 3.000 participants in the Parade and 40-50k expected to watch from Michigan Ave in this family event that
celebrates our Irish Heritage and recognizes the Charitable of the Irish Community.

 

 

What are the projected set-up, event and tear down dates and times (must be completed)?

Begin Set-up Date 8: Time: 3/10/19 6:00am Complete Set-up Date Time: 3/10/19 10 am

 

Event Start Date Time: 3/10/19 1 :00 pm Event End Date Time: 3/10/19 4:00 pm

 

Begin Tearing Down Date: 3/ 10/19 3:00 pm Complete Tear Down Date: 3/10/19 4:30pm

 

Event Times (If more than one day, give times for each day):

 

 

Is this the ?rst time you have held this event in the City of Detroit? El Yes No

 

 

 

 

If no, what years has the event been held in Detroit? 1958 2019. 61 Years
When was the event last held in Detroit? 3? 1/18

Where was the event last held in Detroit? Same Location
What were the hours last year? 6100 am - 4:00 pm
Project Attendance This Year (Minimum Maximum)? 30.000 50.000

 

What is the basis for your projected attendance? 2018 participation

 

 

Please describe your anticip atedl target audience:

is this going to be an annual event? Yes No

 

 

 

if yes, do you have a preferred/proposed for nextyear? Alwavs the Sundav before St. Patrick's Day
If a parade is planned. Indicate elements (check all that apply):

People Balloons

Floats Animals

Vehicles Other:

Bands

lf animals included, specify type, number and how used. Detroit Mounted Police

Name of business supplying animal(s):

 

Contact Person: Sgt. DOUQ Mpgion 

 

Address: Phone: 31 3.999.0413
City/State/Zip:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Suction 3? 

Location ovaent: Michigan Ave. bit 6lh Street and Roosevelt Park - 

Facilities to be used (circle): City Facility

Please attach a site plan which illustrates the anticipated layout 0 your event including the following:

 

 

-Public entrance and exit -Location of First Aid

-Location of merchandising booths ~Location of ?re lane

-Location of food booths -Proposed route for walk/run
-Location of garbage receptacles -Location of tents and canopies
-Location of beverage booths -Sketch of street closure

-Location of sound stages -Location of bleachers

-Location of hand washing sinks -Location of press area

-Location of portable restrooms -Sketch of proposed light pole banners

 

Section 4- ENl'ii 

What type of entertainment will be used? (check all thatapply)

 

1 Singers []Magician
]Musicians Story Telling, Reviewine Stand WI 
Comedians ]0ther: HS Marching Bands. Bagpipe-rs. Step Dancers

 

Describe the entertainment for this year?s event:

 

 

List pr0posed entertainers andfor bands performing at the event:

 

 

Willa sound system be used? Yes No

If yes, what type of sound system? Brownstown Parks Rec Mobile ?ound Stage. sneakers at Reviewing Stand
Acoustic-audible, sound heard within natural range

Ampli?ed-augmented, sound increased to broaden

range

The ampli?ed sound will be used: Metro Audio Visual go Rate Hassett

Will the event consist of a musical concert? El Yes No

If yes, what type of music? (check all that apply)

Live Recorded 
Describe speci?c power needs for entertainment andfor

music:

Generators

 

How many generators will be used? Two small Honda Generators
How will the generators be fueled? _G_a_s
Name of vendor providing generators:

Contact Person: Metro Audio Visual

 

 

 

 



Address: 6731 N. Adams Rd. Phone: clo Pete Hassett. 248.514.6221

 

City/State/Zip: Bloom?eld Hills, MI 48301

 

 

Ht-t?liun 5- $5le; S'l'Rle?litiY

Check all applicable boxes that describe the type of promotion you plan to use to attract participants:
Radio (Specify stations): WJR . WWJ, Irish Radio Show

Television [Speci?c stations): Fox 2. WDIV WXYZ

Newspapers (specify papers): Detroit Free Press 8; Detroit News, Hometown Observer
Dr] Web site (identify web address): 

Public Relations or Marketing Firm (Specify):

[Contest Info:
l] Raf?e (List some?:

Billboards.
Flyers
Street Banners

Other (specify):

 

raf?es subject to laws of State/City.

 

Section h- 

Will there be advanced ticket sales? Yes No
If yes, please describe:

 

 

Will there be on?site ticket sales? Yes No
If yes, list price(s):
Will food be sold? Yes No

if yes, please pick up Special Events Vendor Packet in Suite 105: Ron Cooley Bob McShanel UIS co-Chalr for all Vendor Packets

 

Food Truck with City Vendor License

Will merchandise be sold? Yes No
If yes, describe: Vendors, sponsors in one tent

 

 

Will a percentage of the proceeds be distributed to a charitable organization? Yes No

If yes, describe: All proceeds go to Non-Pro?t to fund Detroit St. Patrick's Parade

 

If the event is a ?mdraiser, identify charity or recipient of funds: Detroit St. Parade

 

 

Will he vending or sales? Yes No
ll?yes. Chct'l'l all that apply;

IX il Food Merchandise

Non-Alcoholic Beverages Alcoholic Beverages
Other (specify):

Indicate type of items to be sold: Food Trucks. Coffee, Hats, T-Shirts. UIS to coordinate all Vendor packets and licenses.

 

 

 

Will these be exclusive vendors or outside vendors? (please describe): Exclusive UIS pre approved with city vendor licenses

 

 

Section 7? PUBLIC PARKING 

Name of Private Security Company: Existing park contract security will be used.

Contact Person: Securitv Services - Harold Kuhn
Address: 1900 Big Beaver Rd Phone: 248-722-4309

City/State/Zip: Troyy Ml 48084
Number of Private Security Personnel Hired Per Shift: Two stone - 3i10I19

Are the private security personnel (check all that apply):

[x1 Licensed Armed [Xl Bonded

 

Describe the emergency evacuationplan: Public Annogngements from IDLGG stgges! Ham radio operators

Describe the parking plan to accommodate anticipated attendance: NIS Michigan Ave Large Parking lots and lots North of l-75

 

How will you advise attendees of parking options? Web site. local sionaoe traffic reports

Are you seeking a group parking rate? WNW.

 

 

Section 8- 

How will your event impact die surrounding community (Le.
pedestrian traf?c, sound carryover, safety)?
Corktown Buslnessos and Community supports the event

 

Have local neighborhood groups/businesses approved your event? Yes No

indicate what steps you have or will take to notify them of your event: Postcards. ?iers, letters, posters

 

 

Indicate contact names and phone numbers (for veri?cation) or attach approved letter(s): Ron Cooley 810-531-4898

 

 

 

Section 

 

Complete the appropriate categories that apply to the event.

Structure

How Many? [1 Bandstand-SthMohilg

Size/Height 

Booth Marshal Booth Michigan 81 4'hiqh 3' long 2' deem

 

Tent (enclosed, 3 sides) One at Family Fun Zone

 

 

 

 

 

 

Canopy (open on all sides)

 

 

Staging/Scaffolding Bike Barricades (1,108)

Bleachers Jae?Wm

Company: Performance Staging will supply Bike Barricades and (1) portable bleacher
Grill

Gas Charcoal Electrical Propane
Fireworks (Pyrotechnics)

Aerial Stage

Provide Sketch:

Portable Restrooms:

Standard ADA

Accessible Vehicles

Type/Weight:

Other:

NOTE: Speci?c requirements must be met and special approval must be received by the Detroit Fire Department.

Will additional electrical wiring need to he installed? Specify locations, voltage, amperage, and phase.

 

Will additional utility services be used (power, water, etc)? Please describe.

 

Do you plan a ?reworks display? List dates, time, location, vendor, and attach certi?cate of insurance.
None

 

 

 

 

 

Section illPPLY
Name of (Johnny collecting refuse and garbage?

 

Contact Person: Republic Services] Matt Darcy

 

Address: 5400 Cogswell

Phone: 734-727-21 17

 

City/State/Zip Wayne. 48184
Name of company providing emergency medical services?

Contact Person: Hart Medlcal -Adam Gotleib 248-789-3648

 

Adm: 1636 W. Fort St.
City/State/Zip: Detrolt. Ml 48216
Name of company providing parts-johns.

Contact Person: Scott's Patties - 

 

Address: P.O. Box 530846

Phone: 734-421 -1 400

 

City/State/Zip: Livonia. MI 48153

 

Name of private catering company?

Contact Person: None

 

Address:

Phone:

 

CityIStntei?Zip:

 

SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

List any streets or possible streets you are requesting to be closed. Include the day, date, and time of requested closing and reopening.

Neighborhood Signatures must be submitted with application for approval.

Attach a map or sketch of the proposed area for closure.

STREET NAME: 1? Sec Attached}

 

FROM
TO

 

Closure Dates:
Beg. Time:
End Time:
Reopen Date:
Time:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME: See Attached)

FROM

 

 

TO

 

Closure Dates:

 

Beg. Time:

 

End Time:

 

Reopen Date:
Time:

 

STREET NAME:

 

 

 

FROM

 

TO

 

Closure Dates:

 

Beg. Time:
End Time:

 

Reopen Date:

 

Time:

 

STREET NAME:

 

 

 

FROM

 

T0

 

Closure Dates:

 

Beg. Time:
End Time:

 

Reopen Date:

 

Time:

Requested City Equipment
Provided in:
Current Request:

Street Closures:

Posting no parking signs

Electrical Services

 

 

 

(year)
(year)

Light pole
Storage for Trailersfl'runks

Barricades are not available from the City of Detroit.

moment 

Is there any additional information that you feel is important to mention regarding your event or additional requests?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AFFADAVIT OF APPLICANT

I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief that have read. understand and agree to abide by the rules and regulations governing the proposed
Special Event, and I understand that this application is made subject to the rules and regulation established by the
Mayor or the Mayor's designee. Applicant agrees to comply with all other requirements of the City, County. State,
and Federal Government and any other applicable entity. which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to
abide by these rules. and further certify that I. on behalf of the Event agree to be financially responsible for any costs
and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event, to the City of Detroit.

 

 

x?
Ia 547
Signature eprpIicant- Date

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by the Special Events Management Team, you
will be noti?ed of any requirements, fees, and/or restrictions pertaining to your event.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Horrors! {His-ii SmI-ireLi?ic-re
(7:53! i GMT-.99, Si. Patric-m Parade Route
3* r1 -.- .
Reviewing Stadium lid 3 going Area
Stand lriah
i - Plaza
if "7 Mi?chfgannve I,
?ue .11?:?ame-u ml? Ju?
B?aier .. 
u: -.- 5
- 
3? 1
.-.. 
P9495 GIL i
5 Dhrr?am 
Em . is
Abbott LIEJ


Instruction for Marshals

All Division Hamlin! must report to the Genemi Marmara booth on Sixth Street. and Micl?gan Ave.

one hour (12:30 pm) before. assembly time to receive their Marshal's ann bond and additional
instructions.

Line up your divisions properly - only 10 abreast. You are responsible for the appearance of your
division during the entire parade. Be proud of them - keep them in line.

Report all deletions to the General Marshals 15 minutes prior to starting time.

Don?t physically or verbally abuse anyone. Any problems- that you cannot resolve please see the
General Marshals.

Np drinking of beverages of any kind is allowed during the parade.
The throwing of any type of candy, mementos or souvenirs is prohibited.

The United irish Societies does not endorse any individual candidates for any elected of?ce,
consequently no political advertising of any type is allowed in the parade.

CONTRACT FOR TEMPORARY LEASE. OF PREMISES
A. LEASE OF EXTERIOR 0F PREMISES

In consideration of the United Irish Societies (hereinafter the UIS) leasing the
exterior of certain premises located at 1217 Michigan Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, which
said location 1s a car wash. The UIS will lease said premises commencing at 3 00PM
on March 10, 2018 and lease shall terminate on or befoe on March 12, 2018
for an amount of Six Hundred ($600 00) dollars. The following same terms and
conditions shall apply for March 9-11, 2019, with the times for occupancy remaining
the same and the rental rate remaining the same.

The UIS shall have the option to extend this agreement for the years 2020 and 2021,
with the same terms and conditions to apply in such successive years The UIS will
provide the owner/landlord with written notice of the option to extend this agreement no
laterthan April 30, 2019

B. TERMS AND CONDITIONS

The UIS shall have exclusive use of the exterior of the lease premises and no other
business shall be conducted on said premises during the times in which the UIS is
leasing said premises.

. The UIS shall be permitted to place temporary bleachers on the premises which

shall be placed along the sidewalk between the driveways on the premises. The
installation of and removal of such bleachers shall be at the direction of the UIS and its
membership, with the Landlord not being responsible for the same.

The UIS shall be permitted to place barricades around the property, to secure the
property if necessary and generators as needed. The installation and removal of
the barricades shall be at the direction of the UIS and its membership, with the Landlord
not being responsible for the same.

The UIS shall be allowed access to the utilities, on the premises, such as electrical
outlets, use of water from faucets located on the exterior of the building at no cost to the
UIS.

. The UIS shall be allowed to place portable toilets on the premises and shall be
permitted to have a food truck parked and operating on the premises.

. The UIS shall provide a general liability policy holding harmless the landlord/owner

from claims that arise as a result of the UIS or its authorized guests being on the
premises on the dates and times set forth above, with the limitations of said policy being
000, 000. 00.

8.

10.

ll.

12.

That as the UIS shall enjoy exclusive use of the premises during the above stated
dates and times. No alcoholic beverages and tobacco products shall be sold, distributed,
or consumed on the leased premises during the above stated dates and times.

The UIS staff, its agents, vendors and authorized guests shall be admitted to the
property during the above dates and times of this agreement. The property
(Miler/landlord shall have access to the premises as required to observe and
preserve its property.

C. RETURN OF PREMISES

The UIS will provide broom sweep clean of the premises upon taking possession of
the same and will provide broom sweep clean of the premises as needed upon return of
the premises.

The UIS shall haul away snow piles which may restrict access and enjoyment of the
leased premises at the sole expense and burden of the UIS.

The UIS as lessee of the premises will provide the necessary oversight to insure
compliance with this agreement and the owner/landlord is not responsible for insuring
that the UIS, its agents, vendors and authorized guests are in compliance with the
agreement.

This Agreement is a-binding, legal document.



 

I MICHAEL mm, UIS Pza'ident

t-r7-IS7

 

Dated: 

 

ZOUHEIR 
Owner/Landlord

01-17-2018

2 .0001,?

 

Model SPBL3010
Model 
Model SPBL4510

Frame

Width

Row Spacing

Seat Boards

Foot Boards

Risers

Guard Rails



Suspension

Brakes

Tires

Towing Electrical

Leveling Jacks

SPECIFICATONS

10 row Speedy Bleacher Mobile Bleacher System

Unfolded
Seating Row Max Static Jack For use
Length Height Logd Len th
200 30' 12' 6? 140.000210.000210.00? 19? 4" 46' 6?

12/2011

aided
For Towing
Le
102102" 50? 1"

Main Frame is two 16" roiled steel beams. {weight 26 lbs. per lineal foot.)
All steel parts are hot dip galvanized after fabrication. Foiding section is

6061 T6 heavy duty high tensile tempered aluminum.
102? (Which is the current standard width for trailers.)

24" row sgacing is standard in the bleacher Industry to provide adequate knee
room. (Succeeding generations are growing taller and taller. anything less is

not adequate for adults.)

Nominal 2" 10? anodized (204 R1) aluminum 6063 T6

Nominal 2 10? mill ?nish aluminum 6063 T6 (Better traction than anodized

aluminum. especially when wet.)

See option F4 for risers and double tootboards.

4? spaced vertical steel baluster bars. (Patent No. 404-141) are galvanized
after fabrication. Guard rails across the back and down the sides to include the

third row seat. Guardrails fold automatically with the seats.

2 5l16? ball type standard (pintle type optional) with heavy safety chains and
emergency break-away cable and switch. Fully adjustable to match height of

hitch on towing vehicle.

39? and 45' -14.000 lb. (tandem 7.000 30' - 12.000 lb. (tandem 6,000 lb.)
Dexter Torflex shock absorbing rubber torsion cushioned axles (not leaf

springs) for smoother. quieter towing and less wear and tear.

Electric brakes on all four wheels with emergency break-away cable and switch

Load range (Heavy-Duty Special Trailer Tires)

Meets DOT requirements for stop. clearance. turn signal. license bracket lights.
Lighting is the latest LED type to give a very long service life. 12 volt cable
connector and safety break-away cable for brakes and is held in place on the

tongue with magnets to avoid dragging on the ground.

Leveling and stabilizing jacks are large semi-trailer type. each with 35.000 lbs.

capacity. Telescoping tubes are 4-3f8' square steel with a large one foot

square steel pad on the bottom. (144 sq. in. ground contact when set.) These
are rigidly mounted to the main frame (no swivel jacks) to give extremely high
sway?load capacity when loaded with people. 6.499.258).

SPBL30 has 4jacks. each has a 35.000 lbs. capacity. total 140.000 lbs.
SPBL40 has 6jacks. each has a 35,000 lbs. capacity. total 210,000 lbs.
SPBL45 has 6 jacks. each has a 35.000 lbs. capacity. total 210.000 lbs.

11

Jack Operation

Operation

Power

Operation Manual

Set-Up

On-Site Training
Weight

MOO

Engineering

Options

Leveling jacks are all operated from a standing Eamon at the back side of
the hieacher. No stoopinq or kneelino to operate numerous small jacks)

A separate tongue jack is not needed.

40' long push button remote control cord allows operator full view to safely fold
or unfold the bleacher

12 volt electrically controlled hydraulic operating system allows complete
set up in only) to it} minutes. Includes 40 ft. control cord, 12 volt deep
cycle battery for 15 to 20 uo- -down cycles. indicator gauge eshows remaining
battery power. main circuit switch to protect the system, automatic

batter); enema rand We. All this is housed

in a lockable aluminum box.

2 operation manuals are supplied

Complete set-up takes 7 to 10 minutes and no hand or power tools are
required.

A factory representative will give a full demonstration at time of delivery.

?gs Uglt
SPBL30 7950 lbs. (without added options)
SPBL4O 9 400 lbs.
SPBL45 10 950 lbs.?

A "Manufacturers Certificate of Origin? is provided with each unit

Speedy Bleachers are designed to meet the new 2009 Code if F4, 46AHR
options are ordered. ?Note: 30' units require one (1) aisle, 39' and 45' units
require two (2) aisle to meet requirements.

this option meets the opening rule? in recent codes by using full
doeble moth footboards and riser boards underneath the seats to close that
opening to less than four inches.

48AHR option adds a 48" center aisle wlhand rail.

 

Goose Neck hitch. this option replaces the telescoping ball/pintle hitch
tongue with a folding goose neck system. This makes towing for long distances
or with smaller vehicles easier. It also allows for better maneuvering to place
the bleachers. Once the bleacher is placed you pull one pin and fold the goose
neck arms up to the front on the bleacher to get them out of the way of
spectators.

Both ogtions are needed to comely with 130 2009 Code. Code requirements and their

interpretation. application and variances are determined by local authorities. Applicable codes
can vary by local jurisdiction. Speedy Bleacher Corp., Kay Park-Rec Corp, nor any of its'
representatives have authority to interpret or apply codes. The owner ls responsible for
compliance with applicable codes.

SPEEDY BLEACHER CORP.

KAY PARK-RECREATION CORP. JANESVILLE, IA 50647

1-800-553-2476 

SPEEDY BLEACHER 3"x1 112?23116' Steel Tube
VIEWED FROM TONGUE END

 
       

51'8' Diameter Bars

3" Sq. Steel Tube ans" Wall

2110' Nominal Aluminum Plank

 

    

3" Sq. Tube

25116" Ball Hitch

  

7,000 lb. Capacity Axles
Electric Brakes Both Axle:

3.75x 16.5, Load Range Tim 30'
9.50 16.5 Load Range Tires 40' 8; 45?

       

   
 

5'22 3! "x Aluminum Channel

231 
File: Speedy BleacherISpeedy Assembled/Speedy 10 Row side View from tongue and rk 
Drwg. Date: 11I18I04 CKB ay a ec Corp.

1301 Pine St.
Janesville, IA 50647
1 600-553-2476

 

2'5: 10" Nominal Aluminum Plank

 
 

 

5'0" TYP 

 

 

4'0" TYP

[48334-1
4?34

 

GENERAL NOTES:

Palh Io Pan? or May - 

 

 

433%" 

UNLBSOIHRWISESPECIFIED: . Indu$frles, Inc.

- -: 
Twenmczes: DRAWN BY 10/112014 

FRACIIONAL: Ir32
END 2 m, CHECKED -.

THREEPLACEDECIMAL 2.005 ENG Apple,? 7 10 ROW BLEACHER
00 NOT SCALE DRAWING MFG APPR- 

MATHIAL LAST SAVED ?l2 f2916 1:41? 2 
COMMENTS:

PART NO.

REV
A SPBL4010F448AHR

Sheet 1 of_2


. .. -. . 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

[230%5']

 

1923;;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ir-z?

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES:
Con?dential Drawing and Information



Without the {Imam :1wa Industrial.
Speci?cations are Subject to Change 
Without Notice.


40'338"

 

ii 

 

??LessomEnwsespEcmaa: DATE - - Kay Pork Rec

DWSIWSAREINNCHES DRAWN DAT 10 1 2014
- ..-..H - 

1m CHECKED 
BEND 21:2'
THREE PLACE DECMAL 2 .005 ENG APPR.

DO NOTSCALE- MFGAPFRIM - - - - DESC. SPEEDY 10? ROW BLEACHER 

MATERIAL LAST SAVED 5121.12915134fn?2 Hf 

MMENTS: - -
0 SIZE PART NO. REV
A SPBL4010F448AHR

SHEEF 2 OF 2

Lot 

mumm-bww

2019 St. Patrick?s Parade
Parking Lots

Address OwneriOEerator

1750. 1941 and 1915-1925 Trumbull Tony Formosa - Trumbull Parking
1501 Church

1426 and 1360-1374 Kaline Dr. Ray Formosa Brooks Lumber
2251-2297 Harrison Trumbull Parking

2302-2310 Rosa Parks Blvd. Trumbull Parking

2244-2292 Harrison Trumbull Parking

2300-2332 Harrison Trumbull Parking

2641 Trumbull Tony Formosa

1231?1249 Beech Derman Brown

1262-1266 Michigan

 

The St. Patrick?s Parade

 

 

 

January 6, 2019

Ms. Bethanie Fisher. Special Events
City of Detroit Media Services
Coleman A Young Municipal Building
2 Woodward Ave., Suite 333

Detroit. MI 48226

Re: 2019 Detroit St. Patrick's Parade Permit

Dear Ms. Fisher:

The United Irish Societies, an umbrella group of 36 Detroit Metropolitan Area Irish
Organizations requests a permit to stage the 61st Annual Detroit St. Patrick's Parade on
Sunday March 10, 2019.

Detroit's oldest continuous ethnic parade will start at 1:00pm on Michigan Ave at 6th
Street and continue west on Michigan Ave. through the historic Irish Corktown
neighborhood. pass by the reviewing stand and end at Roosevelt Park at approximately
3:00pm.

The Parade consisting of approx. 100 Marching Units. High School Marching Bands and
spectator crowds in excess of 40.000 who will honor the memory of Ireland?s Patron
Saint and celebrate our Irish Heritage and the spirit and contributions of the members of
the Detroit Area Irish Community.

I have attached the following information for your review and approval:
0 City of Detroit Special Events Application

Fun Zone Car Wash Agreement

Temporary Use Permit for Pre-Manufactured Bleachers

Speci?cations. 10 Row Speedy Mobile Bleacher System

Parking Vendor's, Parade Day

Once again on behalf of the United Irish Societies, thank you in advance for your help.
If you have any questions or if I can be of further assistance please do not hesitate to
call me at my office at 313.791.2600 or on my cell at 313.475.4675.

4/

Michael L. Kelly
United Irish Societ? 5

'se 

 
  

 

2068 Michigan Ave. . Detroit. MI 48216"- (313) 475-4675
Inanonrn-l In. Ilia Irhll Inclailnc

 

CLERK JFIH PMS I15-

1.-
L.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CIEN run
2 WOODWARD AVE., FOURTH FLOOR
or Damon DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(3i3) 224-0484 - 

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND 
morrmmov

Date: January 28 2019

   
 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 19151 Avon
NAME: Moonwater Maintenance and Landscaping Corporation
Demolition Ordered: November 16, 2015

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (B SEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on January 18, 2019 that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has paid
all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar davs from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
M, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
a Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing InSpection
I Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_H rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Res Fully submitted,

David Bell
Director

DB:bkd

cc: Moonwater Maintenance and Landscaping Corp, 22215 Ivanhoe LN, South?eld, MI 48034 a. w; 
AI IN: Marlene Jackson Lt.?

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CEN 
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL (3 l3) 224-0484 - TTY27I1



Date: January 28 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 5254 Stanton
NAME: Paul G. Silveri, Silveri Consulting INC
Demolition Ordered: May 14, 2018

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on January 18, 2019 that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has paid
all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1St deferral request for this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

 

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule 2 Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
da 5, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
?rrther notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respec ly submitted,


. .. "l k. 

a as: 
David Bell
Director


cc: Silveri Consulting INC, 312 Lodge DR, Detroit, MI 48214
ATTN: Paul G. Silveri

   

.5 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 - TTYz7tl


Date: January 28 2019

 

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 20510 Gilchrist
NAME: Marlene Jackson
Demolition Ordered: July 12, 2016

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on January 23, 2019 that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has paid
all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner's use and occupancy. This is the deferral request for this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar davs from the date ofthe rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter. the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-five (45) calendar
M, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

I Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for ELI rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
sue a Blight Violation Notice.

   
 
 

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

David Bell
Director

DB:bkd

cc: Marlene Jackson, 22215 Ivanhoe Lane, South?eld, MI 48034

   

COLL-MAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CEN HR
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DEIROIT Dl?i?lROl?l', MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ANI.) ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 - TTY27I I



Date: January 28 2019 aq

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 4384 Three Mile Drive
NAME: Detroit Land Bank Authority
Demolition Ordered: March 27, 2017

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (B SEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on January 23, 2019 that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has paid
all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every furtv-I'Ive (45) calendar
M, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for all rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Respc ublniued

David Bell
Director

DB:bkd

cc: Detroit Land Bank Authority, 500 Griswold-Suite 1200, Detroit, MI 48226

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL ER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR

0F DETROI MICHIGAN 48226
BUILDINGS, AND Dljl?AR'l'Mlel (313) 224-0484 - 



a,

   

Date: January 28 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 3987 Lawton
NAME: Ashleigh Davis
Demolition Ordered: October 10, 2011

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on January 23, 2019 that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has paid
all taxes and is current. The proposed use ofthe property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1"t deferral request for this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

I. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date ofthe City Council
decision.
2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation

 

permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
da s, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
I Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
I Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_H rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).
5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.
6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions ofthe deferral
have been satisfied and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. [f the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition. pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office of the City Clerk.

 

David Bell
Director

DB:bkd

cc: Ashley Davis, 3987 Lawton, Detroit, MI 48208

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - 


      
 

Date: January 28 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 16189 Parkside
NAME: Detroit Land Bank Authority
Demolition Ordered: April 9, 2013

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on January 23, 2019 that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner has paid
all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the deferral request for this property.

Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
M, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_H rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.
We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.
At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without

further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

   

Respe submitted,

. .. 
?3 39:! A3211 ml 

David Bell -
Director


cc: Detroit Land Bank Authority, 500 Griswold-Suite 1200, Detroit, MI 48226

MEMORANDUM

TO:

CC:

FROM:
DATE:

RE:

City of Eetruit
CITY 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

 

David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Division

Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk

Council President Brenda Jones :6 
February 1, 2019

Opposition to Migrant Protection Protocols

On January 28, 2019, the Trump Administration announced a policy, effective immediately,
to force asylum seekers to remain in Mexico over the duration of their immigration court
proceedings. The backlogged immigration courts will force asylum seekers to fight their case
for months or years in Mexico, and the policy contains no clear path to implementation,
including how and where immigration proceedings will occur. Nor does the policy take into
account the safety of migrants during their time in Mexico. The United States must strike a
balance between the application process and the safety of vulnerable migrants who are
seeking asylum in the United States.

Please draft a resolution in opposition to the Trump Administration?s January 28, 2019
memo entitled ?Guidance for Implementing Section of the Immigration and
Nationality Act and the Migrant Protection Protocols?.

RECHVED FEB 012013

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 . Detroit. Michigan 48226

(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 224-4095

9 $}im

QEitp_i_Jf Eetrm?t

CITY COUNCIL 
COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

 

MEMORANDUM
TO: David Bell, Director
Buildings Safety Engineering and Environmental Department
Saskia Thomas, Director
Detroit Land Bank Authority
CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones 59
DATE: February 1, 2019
RE: 20500 Goulburn

 

My office has received a complaint from a resident regarding a property at 20500 Goulburn.
The resident reported that the home caught fire and is no longer secure. I am requesting the
Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department inspect the property and take
appropriate action and the Detroit Lank Bank Authority take steps to immediately secure
and demolish this property.

Fill-Till" WED FEB 012019

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1245 Fax (313) 234-4095

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

9/5/17

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 

 
 

 

 

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Resolved,

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

JOY RENEE-ASHLEY BRICKERSON

  

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, solemnly pause today to honor the memory of Joy
Renee-Ashley Brickerson, who made her transition on January 23, 2019. Joy was born on November
5, 1993 to Ralston and Gloria Brickerson. She was the youngest of seven children. Joy accepted Jesus
Christ at an early age at Straight Gate International Church and served on the Dance Ministry; and

Joy was educated in the Detroit Public School System and graduated from Cass Technical High School
in 2011 where her curriculum was college preparatory studies. Due to her high academic achievement at
Cass Tech, she became a student at Michigan State University where she interned for State Senator Bert
Johnson and obtained her Bachelor of Arts in Social Relations and Policy with Honors in 2015; and

After graduation, Joy worked for Council Member ane? Ayers and later that year returned to the of?ce
of Senator Johnson as his Legislative Director. She worked in this capacity until she entered Wayne
State University's Law School upon receiving a full tuition Damon J. Keith scholarship in August 2017;
and

As a law student, Joy interned for Chief Judge Denise Hood of the United States Eastern District of
Michigan, Federal Court. In addition to interning, she worked at the law of?ces of James W. McGinnis
P.C. While in law school, Joy was the Social Chair for the Black Law Students Association. Joy also
was an article editor for the Journal of Law in Society; and

Joy exempli?ed her name, she was a bright light in every room she entered and brought ?joy? to the
world around her. She was a vibrant, ambitious, and intelligent young lady, a mentor to young women in
Detroit and truly a rising star cut short. ?Joy? was given to this world just simply by her presence in it.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council Member Jane? Ayers, joins with family and friends
in honoring the life of Joy Renee-Ashley Brickerson. She was loved by many and will be genuinely
missed.

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM COUNCIL MEMBER

 

COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBER

 

COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBER

 

 

 

COUNCILMEMBER COUNCIL MEMBER

 

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY 

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

WALLACE BOLTON
January 5, 1932 January 26, 2019

 

 

WHEREAS, WALLACE BOLTON was born in Detroit Michigan on January 5, 1932 to the union of Joseph Bolton and Ida Mae Hill.
He was the eldest of six children. Wallace accepted Christ at an early age and was baptized at Shiloh Baptist Church; and

WHEREAS, Wallace was educated in the Detroit Public School system and graduated from Miller High School. While in high school,
Wallace ran track and was an athletic force to be reckoned with. Wallace joined the United States Army and proudly
served in the Korean War. He was honorably discharged and began working at Kelsey Hayes in Detroit, Michigan.
Wallace grew bored with factory work, so he relocated to Chicago, Illinois where he attended a school of x-ray
technology and became an x-ray technician. He later relocated to California, living there for 29 years while working at
several hospitals in Califomiae had the honor of x-raying several members of the Golden State Warriors and the Oakland
Raiders. Wallace later relocated to Detroit and in retirement continued to shoot x-rays at St. Joseph Medical Clinic in
Detroit; and

WHEREAS, Wallace met and married Mary Caudillo in the early 1950?s, and to this union two daughters were born: Wanda and
Yvonne. Later in life he married Roberta Laurence, and to this union one son was born: Kamani. Wallace also embraced
another daughter, Maria Dionne. Wallace enjoyed ?shing, horse racing, swimming, jazz music, sports, and family. He
attended most Bolton family reunions, and was proud to be the patriarch of the family. Wallace also had his way of
interacting with family; ?shing with Sonny, watching sports with the Boys?, teasing the Girls?, horse racing with
Doug and Michael, philosophy with Oliver, politics with Mary, and telling Nettie how to drive. He made each and every
family member feel that they were important to him. Wallace was preceded in death by his parents Joseph Bolton and Ida
Mae Bolton Tell; one brother Donald Bolton, four sisters, Florence May, Fern Maxine Blackshear, Janet Kidd, and
Patricia Moore; two children, Yvonne Lovett and Kamani Bolton; amd

WHERE AS Wallace appeared to be a picture of health, but after a sudden and brief illness, made a peaceful transition on January 26,
2019. Wallace leaves to cherish his memory: two daughters, Wanda (Stanley) Bush, Maria Dionne Long; Son-in-Iaw,
Jeffrey Lovett; grandchildren, Oliver (Kristina) Owens II, Horace Shef?eld IV, Detroit City Council President Pro Tem
Mary Shef?eld, Kalia (James) Walker, and Khadija Bush; great?grandchildren, Tariq Owens, Khalil and Rylan Owens,
Jalen, Essence, and Jada Hall; several nieces, nephews, cousins, and a host of other relatives and friends. NOW,
THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM MARY SHEFFIELD,
wishes to take this resolution endure as a permanent record of respect and admiration, and that a suitably-enrolled
copy be presented to the family of WALLACE BOLTON.

mi

COUNCIL IDENT

?44

-ESIDENT 13.0 COUNCIL MEMBER


I 
4-.

1

A4 ?lay?;



 

COUNCIL ME EFI

      

COUNCIL MEMBEFI

CO CIL MEMBER

February 1, 2019

DATE

 

 

 

