Vote


TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS.

RESOLVED,

1' IENT DETROIT CITY COUNCIL /0 

95me 93650va .

In Memoriam

BISHOP ISAAC KING, JR.

We, the members of the Detroit City Council. recognize and bestow homage upon the late BISHOP ISAAC KING JR.,
Senior Pastor of Pentecostal Temple Church of God in Christ, who made his heavenly transition on January 25, 2019: and

BISHOP ISAAC KING JR. was born on July 2] 1930, in Glendora, Mississippi, to the late Mother Gertrude and Deacon Isaac
King Sr. When he was four years old, the King family relocated to Detroit, Michigan. The family attended the ?Mother Church?
on Livingston Street and he later became a member of Bailey Temple Church of God in Christ. BISHOP KING accepted the
Lord Jesus Christ and was Spirit-?lled at the age of fourteen. He graduated from Central High School and also attended Highland
Park Community College and the Detroit Bible College. At age nineteen, BISHOP KING was called to the ministry. He

received his ministerial license and was later ordained as an elder. At the age of twenty-nine, he was appointed as Pastor of
Pentecostal Temple Church of God in Christ in Inkster, Michigan; and

As part of his vision, PASTOR KING founded the Inkster Christian Academy in 1979, which served grades K-12. In I990, he
organized the Pentecostal Temple Daycare Center. Later that year, a building was erected to house the academy and daycare
center at a cost of $2.5 million. In 1997, a charter was secured in partnership with the Inkster Board of Education, to operate
King Academy as a K-6 public charter school. He also founded Alpha-Omega Education Management, a company that provided
professional education services for charter schools. In 2001, PASTOR desire to provide a platform where local
churches could ?ourish and pastors would be free to minister, served as the catalyst for the establishment of the Southwest
Michigan Agape Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction. In March 2003, he was consecrated as a Bishop in a service of?ciated by the late
Bishop GE. Patterson and members of the General Board of the Church of God in Christ; and

In addition to ?fty-?ve years of pastoral service at Pentecostal Temple, BISHOP KING also served eighteen years as the Pastor
of Greater Northwest Church of God in Christ in Detroit. He led both churches in successful building and renovation programs.
Many homes and marriages have been reconciled through the prayer and counseling ministries of these churches. The homeless
have been housed, clothed and fed through the outreach programs. BISHOP KING served in various capacities in the Church of
God in Christ on local, district, jurisdictional and national levels. One of the highlights of his ministerial service was preaching
the Communion Day message during the historic Centennial Convocation of the Church of God in Christ; and

BISHOP KING served on numerous community-based and civic organizations, including: the Inkster Ministerial Alliance
(former President), Inkster Rehabilitation Review Board, Inkster Police and Wayne County Sheriff?s Department (Chaplain),
Save African-American Boys (Board of Directors), and the Bishop G.D. Moore Apartments (Board President). BISHOP KING
received many awards for meritorious service from the Cities of Inkster and Detroit, the County of Wayne and the State of
Michigan. A street was named in honor of him and his beloved wife (Isaac Margaret King Drive). BISHOP KING is a lifetime
member of the NAACP. He received an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from Shreveport Bible College. BISHOP KING
was married to the late Margaret Jewel Gordy King for almost sixty years. He is survived by his three children: Karen, Kyra and

Kevin, and his loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. BISHOP ISAAC KING JR. will be remembered and celebrated
for his spiritual and visionary leadership. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones,joins with family and friends in honoring the life
and legacy of BISHOP ISAAC KING JR. He will be greatly missedLMEMBEFI couwc 2:21council MEMBER 37:51
July 21. 1930 January 25. 2019

 

DATE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVEDDETROIT CITY COUNCIL /0 3

Toast/Wanted 

In Memoriam

Mrs. Eudora Reeves McKinney

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, recognize and bestow homage upon the late, MRS. EUDORA REEVES
MCKINNEY, a beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt, cousin and dear friend, who was granted her angel
wings on September 10, 2018; and

EUDORA REEVES MCKINNEY (PINKEY) was born on February 22. 1954, to the matrimonial union of the late
Elijah Joshua Reeves and Ruby Lee Gilmore. EUDORA gave her soul to God at a very early age as a member of New
Bride Baptist Church. In 2017, she joined Hope United Methodist Church and was a faithful member. EUDORA was
thoughtful, caring and slow to anger. She was affectionately referred to as ?Sweden.? the neutral country, because she

never took sides and always found the right words to convince others that the issue or disagreement was really not that
important; and

Family meant everything to EUDORA. She found pleasure in compiling the family histories of the McKinney, Reeves
and Gilmore legacies. EUDORA loved to dance and sing. She often participated in modern dance and vocal classes
during her Junior High and High School years. EUDORA is a I971 alumni of Martin Luther King Jr. High School. She
earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Social Work ?'om the University of Detroit in 1975, and Masters of Art in Vocational
Rehabilitation Studies from Wayne State University in 1984. EUDORA achieved a Professional Counselors License
from the State of Michigan in the areas of: Special Needs. Vocational Counseling, Career Counseling and Substance
Abuse Counseling; and

EUDORA was employed as a Licensed Professional Counselor for the State of Michigan?s Center for Individual and
Family Counseling, from January 2015 until she retired. Throughout her career, EUDORA sought and secured positions
that aligned with her vision of what she wanted to contribute to the world: ?To contribute and actively engage in the

provision of therapeutic, vocational rehabilitation and employment related to services to individuals, couples or
groups experiencing personal challenges; and

On April 22, 1978, EUDORA was united in marriage to Joseph Marvin McKinney. This union brought forth two
wonderful sons, Joseph Marvin Ill and Brandon Michael. EUDORA was preceded in death by her parents. Elijah and
Ruby Reeves; one sister, Shirley Ann; and three brothers, Samuel Elijah, Melvin Douglas and Victor Tyrone. She leaves
to cherish her memory, her husband, Joseph; sons, Joseph (Shannon) and Brandon (Ashley); four loving and devoted
sisters, Martha Rose Reeves, Sandra Dolores (Lois) Jackson, Jessie Pecola Watson (Chadnezzer) and Delphine Reeves;
three brothers, Benny Joe Reeves, Thomas Earl Reeves (Beverly) and William Cornel Reeves; grandchildren,
Joseph Marvin IV, Mayana and Elijah William; brother-in-law, Michael McKinney (Diane) and their daughter, Melissa;
and a host of nieces, nephews, cousins, dear ?iends and countless others. Her brothers and sisters will always remember
her strength, her love of family and the personal experience that each of them shared with her. MRS. EUDORA
REEVES MCKINNEY has been a good servant and ensured that her impact would be forever embedded in the hearts
of those she cherished for years to come. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones. hereby extends our deepest sympathy
and joins with family and friends to celebrate the life of MRS. EUDORA REEVES MCKINNEY.

MI
. COUNCIL IDENT

Lil

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

February 22, 1954 September 1, 2018

DATE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS.



DETROIT CITY COUNCIL /0

(amt (Eacsaliwtxm

In Memoriam

MR. HERBERT WHITMORE JR.

We. the members of the Detroit City Council. solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow homage upon the late MR. HERBERT
WHITMORE JR., who made his heavenly transition on January 29. 2019. HERBERT was born on April 29. 1933, in Tulsa. Oklahoma. to
the union of Kelsie and Herbert Whitmore Sr.. the second of six siblings. When he was six years old. the family moved to St. Paul. Minnesota.
He attended John Marshall High School. where he played the center position on the school?s varsity basketball team. In 1951. HERBERT
entered Lincoln University in Jefferson City. Missouri. but left after a year when his money ran low. He returned to Minnesota and saved the
money he earned as a mail carrier to return to Lincoln for his sophomore year in 1953. During this time. he began the process of pledging
Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity. Inc. In 1954. HERBERT enrolled in Mankato State University. becoming the campus? first Black basketball
player. He earned a Bachelor?s degree in Physical Education in 1960; and

HERBERT relocated to Chicago. where he taught at a vocational high school during the day and served as a houseman for Hugh Hefner?s
Playboy Club at night. In 1963. a lovely woman Vera Light. caught his attention while standing at a bus stop. Vera rebuffed his repeated
offers to give her a lift in his car until a lucky rainy day when she ?nally relented. In August of 1964. the couple was united in marriage at the
of?ce of the justice of the peace on their lunch breaks. To this union three children were born: Kim. Devere and Lisa. HERBERT and Vera
sought to raise their family in a safe environment. so they chose to move to a small town. Benton Harbor that was looking to recruit Black
teachers and nurses. The family joined Second Baptist Church. where he was baptized by the late Rev. Donald B. Adkins. At Benton Harbor
High School, HERBERT taught drafting. basic electricity and woodshop. He earned a reputation as a caring and effective track and tennis
coach. leading his teams to local. conference and regional victories. He also served as a licensed referee for local and regional high school
basketball games and coached basketball and football at Fairplain Junior High School. During these years. he completed his journey to Kappa
Alpha Psi at the Benton Harbor Alumni Chapter of the fraternity; and

Always driven to serve and make a difference. HERBERT moved to a rural area outside of Monrovia. Liberia. in early 1976 to join his niece.
Karen. for an effort to build a dormitory and repair a generator that supplied electricity to the National Baptist Convention-sponsored Bendoo
mission. His time in Africa changed his outlook in ways large and small. from eating a plant-based diet to growing a beard. Later that winter.
he faced a life-changing illness and hospitalization for more than ?ve months. With the support of his family and others. he learned to walk
again. HERBERT returned to work teaching math and became the math department lead at Fairplain Junior High School. During this time. he
coached junior high sports. taught night school. earned a Master?s degree in Education from Michigan State University, and an Educational
Specialist degree from Wayne State University. After working for more than twenty-?ve years. HERBERT retired from Benton Harbor
Public Schools in 1993. His passion for mathematics remained strong throughout his life. He tutored certi?ed nursing assistants in math
thorough programs like Math, Fort Bend Tutoring and Khan Academy; and

When his wife passed away in 1997. HERBERT tried to fill the void of her loss through service. In 1999. he joined the Peace Corps and was
sent to Tonga. He was a master teacher at the University of Tonga. providing professional development and guidance to teachers. HERBERT
immersed himself in the culture and became ?uent in the Tongan language. approach to life was infectious. He was a family
man who relished teaching his children and grandchildren how to ski. ?sh. cycle. play ping pong and water sports. HERBERT enjoyed all
genres of music and would break out in a rich baritone singing voice at the most unexpected moments. He loved to attend family reunions and
was proud of his family?s lineage. The family?s ancestry from slavery to modern times was chronicled in a book. "The Seeds of Sally
Gooden." In the end. MR. HERBERT life added up to eighty-?ve years of service. devotion to family. intellectual pursuit
and adventure. He has been a good servant and ensured that the values and traditions by which he lived. would exist in the hearts of those he
cherished for years to come. NOW. THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones. hereby extends our deepest sympathy and joins with family

CI



CI

CO

.rA 
. COUNCI 
r? . .4 .u 

and friends to celebrate the life of MR. HERBERT WHITMORE JR. His legacy will live on and he will be greatly missedartw?hll 
February 5, 2019 

 

DATE

