Mia) 
{7 Iof.

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

   

5; COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226?3437

PHONE 313-224'4550

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-2246505 
LAW DEPARTMENT 9-
CITY OF DETROIT
MEMORANDUM
TO: Honorable City Council
FROM: Elizabeth M.Rouc15

Transactions and Development
City of DetIoit Law Department

DATE: February 14, 2019

RE: Wayne County Circuit Court?s Decision Regarding City of Detroit Zoning
Ordinance, Section 61-4-72

Your Honorable Body, through Council Member Roy McCalister, has requested
additional information concerning a relatively recent Wayne County Circuit Court
decision referencing City of Detroit Zoning Ordinance Section 61-4-72. The questions
posed to the Law Department are included in bold below; the Law Department?s
responses are not bolded.

(1) Please provide an update and opinion of this decision.

In following well-established Michigan case law, the Wayne County
Circuit Court reversed the November 16, 2017 decision of the City of Detroit
Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) ?nding that: the BZA did not have authority
to hear the community appeal because the community appellant had not met the
?aggrieved person? standard; the BZA had no authorization to overturn the
decision of the Buildings and Safety Engineering Department (BSEED) that was
the subject of the community appeal because decision conformed to the
City of Detroit Zoning Ordinance and, there was insuf?cient factual
evidence in the record to support the decision that granted the community
appeal. 8640 Grinnell, LLC v. City Qf'Delroz't and the City ofDetroil Board of
Zoning Appeals (Case No. 1 7?0] 7586-A V).

The ?aggrieved person? standard as established in Michigan, and as
followed by the Court in the subject case, requires that a party must prove that he
or she has suffered special damages related to the beneficial use and enjoyment of
his/her own prOperty that are not common to other property owners similarly
situated. This means that the party must show damages that are unique to him or
her and to his/her property, specifically, and that the party must be more than a
mere resident of the City. Where the community appellant has not met this
?aggrieved person? standard, the BZA has no authority to even hear the
community appeal and cannot grant the relief requested.

 

(2)

(3)

February 14, 2019
Page 2

The August 24, 2018 decision in 8640 Griimell, LLC v. City ofDel'roit and
the City of Detroit Board ononing Appeals (the ?8640 Grinnell Case?) was an
appeal from the November 16, 2017 decision which granted the
community appeal requested by JoAnne Williams. Ms. Williams ?led her appeal
to the BZA under Section 61-4-72 of the D20, requesting that April 13,
2017 decision granting 8640 Grinnell request to establish a medical
marijuana caregiver center as a conditional use, be overturned.

According to Section 61?4-72 of the D20, appeals to the BZA may be
taken by any person, ?rm, partnership or corporation or by any City department,
commission, board or other City agency which is aggrieved 1) by a decision of an
enforcing of?cer, or 2) by any decision made by BSEED involving conditional
uses, or controlled uses, or 3) by any denial of a site plan by the Planning and
Development Department. Any community appellant ?ling an appeal with the
BZA under Section 61-4?72 of the D20 must be aggrieved; where the community
appellant cannot show that it has met the ?aggrieved person? standard, the appeal
is not properly before the BZA and the BZA has no authority to hear the appeal.

Since the Court in 86-40 Grinneli, LLC followed long established
Michigan precedent in rendering its Opinion, there is no basis for an appeal.

How does this decision affect the appeals process for communities and
organizations protesting Medical Marijuana Dispensaries authorized within
their area and which will subsequently impact the area?

The 8640 Grinnell LLC case found that the community appellant (Ms.
Williams) failed to meet the ?aggrieved person? standard. In the hopes of
avoiding future confusion about the same sort of thing, the Law Department
drafted six suggested questions to assist the BZA in determining whether
community appellants meet the ?aggrieved person? standard in community
appeals. These six questions had not before been a part of the questions posed by
the BZA to community appellants, but they should allow community appellants to
provide the kind of speci?c proof required by Michigan law and the D20 to meet
the ?aggrieved person? standard. While the BZA is not required to use these six
suggested questions to community appellants, they may do better in avoiding
reversals by the Circuit Court if they do.

Why are the ?6 Suggested Questions,? only applicable to the communities
and organizations being impacted; and not the Medical Marijuana
Dispensary Businesses? The decision appears to be a bias in favor of Medical
Marijuana Dispensaries; an unconstitutionality of inequality towards
communities.

The ?6 Suggested Questions? are applicable to My community
appellant, irrespective of whether the community appellant is an individual

 

(4)

(5)

(6)

February 14, 2019
Page 3

residing within an impacted community, or a medical marijuana diSpensary. The
questions are designed to insure that the appellant has standing as an ?aggrieved
person.? The questions are n_ot intended to favor either side in the appeal.

According to Section 61-4-72 of the DZO, appeals to the BZA may be
taken by any person, ?rm, partnership or corporation or by any City department,
commission, board or other City agency which is aggrieved 1) by a decision of
an enforcing officer, or 2) by any decision made by BSEED involving
conditional uses, or controlled uses, or 3) by any denial of a site plan by the
Planning and Development Department. This means that ?community appeals?
are not limited to individuals who reside within Detroit?s communities, but any
firm, partnership, corporation, City department, commission, board or other City
agency which is aggrieved by certain decisions can ?le a community appeal with
the BZA. This also means that wry community appellant whether an
individual community member, medical marijuana dispensary, corporation or
City department must meet the ?aggrieved person? standard as established by
well settled Michigan law; if a_ny community appellant does not meet the
?aggrieved person? standard, then under the D20 and Michigan case law, the
BZA does not have the authority to hear the community appeal.

Do the ?6 Suggested Questions,? fall under the Board of Zoning Standards?
The ?6 Suggested Questions? were drafted by the Law Department in
response to the 8640 Grinnell, LLC Opinion which overturned the decision
for failure to follow well-established Michigan law with regard to the ?aggrieved
person? standard applicable to community appeals. Again, the ?6 Suggested
Questions? are designed to obtain information from the community appellant that
will allow the BZA to determine whether the community appellant has met the
?aggrieved person? standard as established by Michigan law. This is an important
consideration for all appeals to BZA, and it is not unique to zoning issues.

How does October 2018 Case Decision affect State Delegation to local
municipalities?

The 8640 Grinnell, LLC Opinion has become part of Michigan case law
by which all state courts in Michigan are bound, including the Wayne County
Circuit Court.

How does this decision affect the earlier implementation of location distance
in reference to churches, schools, other dispensaries and similar
establishments; and how does this decision affect and/or impact the
inspection decisions of Building Safety Engineering and Environment
Department 

This 8640 Grinnell, LLC Opinion concerns the ?aggrieved person?
standard and the authority to hear cases that are before it under Section 61?
4-72 of the D20. The implementation of location distance and BSEED
inspection decisions are outside of the scope of the Opinion. In other words, the

 

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

February 14, 2019
Page 4

8640 Gi'iimell, LLC decision does not disturb regulations regarding spacing, drug-
li?rec zones or authority with respect to inspections.

Has the City Law Department questioned this decision?

As is our standard, the Law Department analyzed the 8640 Grinnell, LLC
Opinion at the time it was rendered; since the Opinion follows well?established
Michigan case law, there is no basis for objecting to the decision.

Does the City Law Department plan to appeal this decision? If no, why not?

No, the Law Department does not plan to appeal this decision. The
Opinion follows well-established Michigan case law; there is no basis for an
appeaL

How does this decision affect current appeals? Will appeals entered prior to
the Wayne County Circuit Court?s decision be allowed to by-pass this
decision process, or must they also comply with this decision? Will the City
Law Department allow appeals entered prior to this decision to be
grandfathered?

The BZA has always been bound to follow well-established Michigan case
law in determining whether a community appellant has met the ?aggrieved
person? standard. Current and prior appeals are, and were, subject to this
standard; this Opinion does not change that.

How is ?special damages? being defined, what qualifies as a special damage?

?Special damages? are defined in the 8640 Grinnell LLC Opinion as a
harm that is unique to the party claiming it something that is not common to
other property owners similarly situated. Everyone who lives in Detroit may have
a common distaste regarding a new slaughterhouse that is opened in the center of
Hubbard Farms. However, an adjacent parcel may face the prospect of ?special
damages? in that the noise and Smell of a butchering facility may be worst at the
property line. The special damages requirement is intended to make sure that
only those who are truly and uncommonly affected by a particular use are allowed
to weigh in on the decision regarding use.

How is ?harm? being defined, what qualifies as a harm?
Harm is generally defined as an injury or a wrong.

Who developed these questions, have they been vetted by the law department
to assure that they comply with state law?

The questions were prepared by the Law Department in response to the
Opinion in the 8640 Grinnell LLC case that found that the BZA had not followed
Michigan case law in granting the community appeal because the community
appellant had not met the ?aggrieved person? standard. The six suggested

 

(13)

(14)

(15)

February 14, 2019
Page 5

questions are not required by state law, but they were drafted to assist the BZA in
meeting state law requirements and the requirements set forth in the D20.

What type of benefit do the questions have to fighting or opposing
deleterious uses in our community?

The six suggested questions were drafted to assist the Members of the
BZA in gathering information from community appellants so that the BZA can
properly determine whether the community appellant has met the ?aggrieved
person? standard as required by well-established Michigan case law. Community
appellants ?ghting or opposing deleterious uses in their respective communities
realize the benefit of community appeals when they can meet the ?aggrieved
person? standard.

Is there another way to identify or to meet the aggrieved person standard?
What is the law department?s suggestion to meet the aggrieved person
standard?

Michigan case law has established the criteria that Michigan courts will
consider, and that must also be considered by the BZA, when determining
whether the ?aggrieved person? standard has been met. According to Michigan
cases, to prove that he is aggrieved, the party must prove that he has suffered
damages related to the beneficial use and enjoyment of his own property that are
not common to other property owners similarly situated. This means that the
party must show damages that are unique to him and to his property, speci?cally;
the party must be more than a mere resident of the City. According to Section 61-
4?72 of the D20, appeals to be BZA may be taken by parties who are aggrieved
(emphasis added); where a community appellant cannot show that he has met the
?aggrieved person? standard, then the community appeal is not properly before
the BZA under Section 61-4-72, and cannot be heard. 

The Law Department suggested that the BZA ask community appellants
six questions to assist the BZA in determining whether a community appellant
had met the ?aggrieved person? standard; this remains the Law Department?s
suggestion for assisting the BZA to make the required determination under the
D20 and Michigan case law.

Why is the burden of proof on the community, particularly considering cases
where the initial request is for a variance?

If the initial request before the BZA is for a variance, then the request
before the BZA would not fall under Section 61-4-72 of the D20, and the
appellant would not have to meet the ?aggrieved person? standard under Section
61-4-72. This is an important distinction.

If the appeal is brought before the BZA pursuant to Section 61-4-72 of the
D20, then that person must meet the ?aggrieved person? standard, by proving
that he has suffered special damages related to the bene?cial use and enjoyment
of his/her own property that are not common to other property owners similarly

 

(16)

February 14, 2019
Page 6

situated. The party claiming to have suffered special damages is in the best
position to prove what damages he has actually suffered. So, the burden of proof
is on the party claiming to be aggrieved.

The 6 ?Suggested Questions? seem unfair in that they impose a speculative
requirement to demonstrate future impact, please expound on this
component.

If a party is ?ling an appeal before the BZA under Section 61-4?72 of the
D20, then that Section requires that the filer be an aggrieved person; the
?aggrieved person? standard is de?ned by well settled Michigan cases, and the
BZA is bound to follow that established precedent when hearing community
appeals and determining whether a community appellant has met the ?aggrieved
person? standard. If the party claiming to be aggrieved has actually suffered harm
or has been wronged, then there is no speculation involved and the community
appellant has an opportunity through the ?6 Suggested Questions? to put his
proofs on the record; if the party claiming to be aggrieved cannot actually prove
that he has suffered a harm or special damages, then he is not an aggrieved party
and the appeal is not properly before the BZA under Section 61-4-72 of the D20.

in addition:

(1) What is the City of Detroit?s provisions for tracking taxable information in

reference to Medical Marijuana Dispensary income, since collected dollars
cannot be deposited in Federal Banks?

The Law Department is not generally involved in tracking taxable
information with respect to medical marijuana dispensaries; accordingly, this
question may be better addressed by OCFO.

(2) In a recent NEWS article, ?60 Michigan Cities have opted out of

Recreational Marijuana Sales;? Detroit was not one of the listed 60;
therefore, I am requesting the Law Department?s opinion on Detroit?s option
of opting; what are the advantages and disadvantages of Detroit opting in
and/or out; and what are the effects of either? How would opting out effect
the legal standing for the City Law Department and the City of Detroit?
Under the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act
(MARTA), a municipality may completely prohibit or limit the number of
recreational marihuana establishments within its boundaries. So long as they are
not unreasonably impracticable and do not con?ict with MARTA, a municipality
may adOpt other ordinances that: establish reasonable restrictions on public
signs related to recreational marihuana establishments; regulate the time, place
and manner of operation of recreational marihuana establishments; (0) authorize
the sale of marihuana for consumption in designated spaces that are not accessible
to persons under 21 years of age or at special events in limited areas for a limited

 

February 14, 2019
Page 7

time; and, designate a violation of the ordinance as a civil infraction and
provide for a penalty for that violation of not more than $500.

Therefore, the option of opting remains open to the City.

However, given the overwhelming support for recreational marihuana as
expressed through the vote, there may be serious political consequences to opting
in spite of the majority support for legal, recreational marihuana. If this decision
is taken up by this Honorable Body, the standard process for enacting and passing
legislation must be followed; if an opt out or limitation ordinance is taken up by
an individual, as also permitted by MARTA, then the individual must petition to
initiate such an ordinance, and the submission of the petition must comply with
the applicable provisions of MARTA and Michigan election law.

Alton James
Chairperson


413?? 0f Emu? assassins?

David Esparza, LEED

Laure" MCD CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Gregory Pawlowski

. .
?3?3 208 Coleman A. Young Center

Frederick E. Russell, Jr.

Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: 

February 14, 2019

- 3&1. up";

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

Re: comments on proposed Chapter 4 Sign Ordinance

As per Your Honorable Body?s request at the Planning and Economic Development standing
committee meeting of February 7, 2019, City Planning Commission/Legislative Policy Division

staff have reviewed the draft ordinance and compiled a series of comments, concerns, and
observations as a basis for further discussion.

A COpy of the write-up is attached for your consideration.

A public discussion on signage, including the proposed Chapter 4 Sign Ordinance, is scheduled
for the February 21, 2019 meeting of the City Planning Commission in advance of Council?s

March continued review of the matter.
Respectfully submitted,
xafmw/z? 

Marcell R. Todd, Jr. ,Director

Attachment

 Staff Comments
Proposed Ordinance to Amend Chapter 4 of the 2018 Detroit City Code
Advertising and Signs

0 The propOsed ordinance presumes that the 1984 Detroit City Code has already been
recodi?ed as the 2018 Detroit City Code. The proposed ordinance is premature until
recodi?cation is complete.

- The proposed ordinance contradicts current provisions of ?Zoning? (Chapter 61 of the
1984 Detroit City Code) and ?Streets, Sidewalks, and Other Public Places? (Chapter 50
of the 1984 Detroit City Code without amending/repealing any text within Chapters 50
and 61. The proposed ordinance is incomplete. The sign ordinance will need to consist
of three tie-barred chapters.

0 Because of the US Supreme Court decision, Reed v. Gilbert, the Law Department has
retained an outside First Amendment attorney, Brian Connolly?a national expert on sign
law, who is also author of the ?Michigan Sign Guidebook.? Law reports not having sent
the proposed Chapter 4 ordinance to Mr. Connolly. The proposed ordinance lacks the
anticipated outside review to ensure, among other things, the proper content neutrality in
de?nitions, regulations, and exceptions to regulations.

By removing the regulation of from Zoning and
placing that regulation in a standard Police power chapter of the City Code, hundreds of
currently legal billboards on city and county streets and MDOT roadways would
apparently be stripped of their nonconforming use rights.

0 Because proposed height, area, and setback standards are (appropriately) more
restrictive, those legal billboards that exceed proposed standards are compelled to
shrink height/area and increase setbacks in order to remain legal.

0 BSEED will face signi?cant enforcement challenges to compel compliance with
new standards for old billboards.

0 Law may be faced with numerous challenges of ?partial regulatory taking? from
outdoor advertisers forced to shrink their signs.

0 Clari?cation is needed from the Law Department as to the nonconforming use
rights related to existing billboard advertising signs outside the CBD.

- While staff sees merit in removing the regulation of CBD advertising signs
from zoning, the removal of all other signs?on-premises and off-premises-outside-the-
problematic:

The proposed ordinance deprives the public of notification of certain proposed
signs?on-premises animated signs within the CBD and advertising signs outside
the CBD on land zoned B2, B3, B4, M1, M2, and W1.

The proposed ordinance removes the public voice from certain sign decisions.
Rather than basing a decision whether to permit or deny a sign application on the
results of an adversarial hearing (conditional use public hearing), authority is
solely vested in BSEED to determine a sign?s appropriateness at a given location,
making the ordinance vulnerable to claims of conferring unbridled discretion to
BSEED.

BSEED decisions are appealable to the Department of Hearings but no provision
is made to notify the public of such a decision having been made.

Rather than requiring review and action by the Board of Zoning Appeals in a
public hearing where a sign is proposed to exceed proposed area, height, and/or
setback standards, authority is coded to BSEED to allow such
variances/amustments without hearing from the affected nearby public.

 

The ordinance provides no criteria to BSEED for determining the appropriateness
of a requested variance/adjustment.

Instead of regulating signs by zoning district classi?cation (R1, R2, B2, B4, M4,
SD2, etc.), the proposed ordinance regulates signage based on the density of
the actual usage of a given property (High-density nonresidential pr0perty; High?
density residential/mixed use property; Low-density residential property;
Medium-density residential/mixed use property). Problematic results include:

 

I AdVertising signs could now be permitted on non-CBD land zoned
residential wherever a l7-unit apartment building stands?the R6-zoned
Gold Coast along East Jefferson would newly be eligible for billboards.

.. City Council?s sign review/ approval authority over hi gh?density
residential Planned Developments (PD) would be ceded to BSEED, as
would its authority on land zoned PC, PCA, larger SD4 sites, and SDS
casinos.

I Retail development outside the CBD that is not part of a mixed-use
development appears to be ineligible for any sign application.

I Vacant land appears to be ineligible for any sign application.

 Land zoned PR (Parks and Recreation) like Rouge Park and Belle Isle
continue to fall between the cracks since park land/Open space has no
density of development.

- The de?nition of Central Business District is incorrect; it omits the entire north-of?Fisher?
Freeway addition to the CBD.

- While the petitions to Council have urged the allowance of advertising sign in the Central
Business District (approx. 1.49 sq miles), the proposed ordinance abolishes the entire
Grand Boulevard Overlay Area (15.5 sq miles) advertising sign prohibition. T_he
proposed ordinance is over~reaching by a factor of 10.

staff initially suggests that, should they be permitted, CBD advertising wall graphics
be regulated in the proposed Chapter 4 so that the limitation on the total number of new signs be
capped and so the duration of the signs be time-limited?restrictions that are problematic under
zoning.

CBD advertising wall graphics, should they be permitted, should be part of a formal City
initiative that includes and promotes public art display, thus meriting unique treatment outside of
Zoning.

All other signs, both on-premises and off-premises, should continue to be regulated by Zoning
subject to established notice, hearing, and appeals procedures. The proposed Chapter 4 draft
needs to be vetted by outside already-contracted First Amendment counsel.

1%

Alton James Gift? at Etta it Brenda Goss Andrews

80:1l MCD Lisa Whitmore Davis
auren oo ?d AIA, LEED
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

February 14, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority for PC (Public Center) Special
District Review of proposed exterior alterations to 2 Woodward Avenue Coleman A.
Young Municipal Center (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

REQUEST

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has received a request from the Detroit?Wayne Joint
Building Authority for PC (Public Center) Special District Review of proposed exterior alterations
to 2 Woodward Avenue Coleman A. Young Municipal Center (CAYMC). This request is being
made consistent with the provisions of Section 61-3-182 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

BACKGROUND

The Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority (DWJ BA) is continually making improvements to
the CAYMC. Over the last few years, several waterproo?ng projects have been completed to
correct water in?ltration issues in the basement which extends beyond the building to the public
sidewalks. The Jefferson (south) and Randolph (east) sides of the building have been completed
and the Larned (north) side is planned for this spring and summer. As the waterproo?ng requires
signi?cant excavation, several improvements and minor changes are proposed as part of the
construction.

The DWJ BA requested review and approval last summer of proposed changes to improve security
screening including the construction of a secure entry portal under the existing canopy. That
project has been delayed due to construction costs being more than anticipated. However, the
waterproo?ng cannot be delayed as the water in?ltration is causing severe operational and safety
issues in the basement.

The next planned project to improve security around the parking lot on the east side of CAYMC
is currently in the bidding process and will be submitted for review within the next few months.

PROPOSED PROJECT
The proposed changes can be divided into four main categories:
1. Vehicular Drop-013r The existing circular drive will be re?opened to vehicular traf?c to
allow people to be picked up and dropped off at the Larned entrance. The planter adjacent

to Lamed under the People Mover track will be removed and replaced with concrete
pavement.

2. Main Entrance Plaza The pedestrian ramp will be recon?gured to comply with ADA
guidelines and be relocated under the canopy and centered on the entrance. Some of the
planters adjacent to the entry will be eliminated and others will be reduced in size (see
attached drawings for details). The existing sign located on the planter under the People
Mover tracks will be relocated adjacent to the entry door on the face of the modi?ed
planter. Additional bicycle racks and benches will be added. The steps near the loading
dock will be replaced with an ADA?compliant ramp.

3. Larned Streetscape New pavement will be provided including an ADA-compliant ramp.
All brick pavers will be removed and replaced with concrete as the pavers are high
maintenance and create a tripping hazard. The existing bus shelters will be reinstalled.

4. Planting The lawn area between the Lamed entry and the west corner of the building will
be replaced after construction, but the trees will be permanently eliminated. The reduced-
size planter east of the entrance will be planted with groundcover, perennials, grasses and
shrubs that are appropriate for the location above a structure.

REVIEW ANALYSIS

Circulation

As a result of changes to the traf?c patterns around the building generated by the establishment of
Spirit Plaza and the relocation of several bus stops, there is a need for a safe drop-off area for
employees and visitors. The reopening of the circular drive along Lamed will provide a curbside
drop-off separate from traf?c to improve the safety for pedestrians and the ?ow of traf?c. The
enhanced ramp to the entrance will further improve access for the mobility?impaired.

PC District Review Criteria
There are eighteen PC District Review Criteria listed in Section 61-1 1-77 of the Zoning Ordinance.

A few of the most applicable are:

(3) The proposed development should be compatible with surrounding development in
terms of land use, general appearance and function and should not adversely affect the
value of adjacent properties.

The proposed changes are minor and will not adversely affect adjacent properties.

(4) Vehicular and pedestrian circulation facilities should be adequately designed to meet
expected demands; disruption of traf?c ?ow in surrounding areas should be minimized;
truck traf?c should be carefully planned and controlled.

The reopening of the circular drive will provide a safe drop-0f area which is currently
lacking with the closure of Woodward Avenue. Moving vehicles out of traf?c that are
dropping-off or picking-up will enhance tra?ic?ow. The expansion of bicycle parking and
bench seating will be beneficial to both employees and visitors.

(l3) Barrier?free access and public safety features should be carefully planned.

Improved ADA-compliant ramps will assist the mobility-impaired in accessing the
building.

Design
The Planning Development Department has reviewed the proposed changes and recommends
approval. Their report is attached.

RECOMMENDATION
CPC staff recommends approval of the proposed exterior modi?cations to 2 Woodward Avenue
as detailed in the Smith Group renderings dated 2/8/2019 with the following conditions:

1. That the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority continue to work with city agencies as
may be appropriate to further re?ne the design and to ensure minimal disruption to the
business conducted at the Municipal Center, and

2. That ?nal site plans, elevations, landscape, lighting, and signage plans be submitted for
City Flaming Commission staff approval prior to making application for applicable
permits.

Respectfully submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON

Marcell R. Todd, Director
Jamie J. Murphy, Staff

Attachment: Design Narrative from Smith Group
Project Narrative from DMJ BA
Drawings showing proposed changes
PDD report

cc: Maurice Cox, Director, 
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corp. Counsel
Mike Kennedy, Hines

SMITHGROUP

DESIGN NARRATIVE
February 8, 2019
Eansmitted? Via eMar'!

Mr. Gregory McDutfee

Executive Director

Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave, STE 1316

Detroit, Ml 48226

Hines
660 East Mason Street, Suite 200
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202

Re: Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan
Approval of Larned Street Redesign Concept Plan

Dear Mr. McDuffee:

Proposed Plan for the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center (Larned She?e!)

A new entrance plaza will be developed for Larned Street providing an accessible entrance. Part of the
project area is located over structure and requires coordination with structural, architectural, mechanical,
engineering, and plumbing to develop a comprehensive design.

Vehicular Entrv Drop-Off

- A new vehicular entrance will allow visitors to be dropped?off near the main entrance. The vehicular
entrance will be recon?gured maintaining the same geometry as the existing entrance drive.

- Areas will be striped indicating no parking or standing zones

- The existing curb on Larned Street will remain; however. new concrete curbs will be installed as
indicated in the attached site plans meeting the City of Detroit standards. The interior curb of the
drap-o? lane will transition to a flush curb with illuminated stainless-steel bollards Bollards will be
medium- or heavy~duty,? however. are not required to be crash?rated or removable

- Additional security elements such as highllow railings or additional bollards are not required in the
island or angled portion of the entry drop-off.

- The vehicular drop-off lanes will be heavy~duty concrete pavement.

- The island to the north of the drop-off will be rebuilt to match the current configuration.

- Existing planters in the island will be removed and replaced with heavy-duty concrete pavement (with
a broom ?nish}

Main EntranceiPlaza

- Site elements will be recon?gured to provide improved pedestrian access and circulation in front of
the building

- A new accessible ramp will be centered between two sets of stairs. The ramp will be rebuilt to match
ADA standards and accommodate two-way travel. The ramp will consist of concrete pavement with
stainless steel handrails and low marble site walls on each side

- The stairs will be concrete with stainless steel handrails

- The main canopy does not span and cover the entire main entry; therefore, two stainless steel trench
drains will be installed adjacent to the east and west walls located perpendicular from the building
face to the stairs. The trench drains will collect water that drains from the above building.

 

 

Hines CAYMC Larned Street Entrance Redesign SmithGroup
Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority Detroit, Michigan 10680.000

DESIGN NARRATIVE 1 - 02/08/2019

SMITHGROUP

-. The planters will not be rebuilt; therefore. new marble cladding will need to be installed at the building
face.

- A new marble planter reduced in size and con?guration will be located to the east of the main
entrance and parallel to the north building face.

- The existing sign and associated marble panels currently located in the island will be recon?gured
and integrated into the new marble site wall in front of the building if possible. In the event the
existing sign and marble panels cannot be salvaged or are not feasible to relocate, a new sign
(similar to the existing) will be provided. The building signitocation is an item to be further reviewed
by during the initial documentation phase.

- Skate deterrents are not needed at walls. A new barrier free concrete walk (with broom ?nish) will
provide access to Randolph Street and the adjacent parking lot located to the east.

- Seventeen stainless steel bike racks will be installed to the east of the loading dock wall.

- A parking shelter is not requested.

- All paved areas along Larned Street will be heavy-duty concrete (with broom ?nish). The landing at
the main entrance will be light duty concrete.

- New stone benches with stainless steel loop legs (as previously speci?ed) will be installed in front of
the building and to the west of the main entry. 

Larned Streetscage

- A new accessible sidewalk ramp and detectable warning mat meeting the City of Detroit standards
will be installed on Larned Street.

- The extent of new heavy?duty concrete pavement is shown in the attached site plan. The extent of
new pavement will continue down Larned Street to a designated point that is coordinated with the
existing bricldconcrete pavement and existing grades.

- A new concrete curb will be installed in the same location as the existing concrete curb that was
previously situated between brick paving.

Planting

- All planted areas will be located over structure.

- Lawn (sod) will be planted over a minimum of six (6) inches of topsoil over growing medium to the
west of the main entrance.

- The raised planter to the east of the main entrance will be planted with a combination of groundcover,
perennials, grasses, and shrubs in a plant bed mix designed for areas over structure.

- The minimum plant container size will be #1 containers for groundcover and #2 containers for other
perennials and grasses.

. Shrubs will be selected that are a minimum of 18-inch height.

- Overall plans will be provided that indicate planting soil depths and irrigation zones.

I The irrigation system will be design?build by others.

The revised design will require Special District Review by the City of Detroit and City Planning
Commission. Meetings and review will be coordinated/attended by Hines The project schedule may be
impacted by the review and approval process

Larned Canopy
Canopy rainwater discharge, and water intrusion to be the focus at this time. Canopy panel will not be

replaced. Possible restoration at both Larned and Jefferson entrances to be revisited at a later day.
Larned Revolving Door and Curtainwall

As previously discussed, the revolving doors and curtainwall system will be replaced as it exists. No
design changes were made at the concept review meeting.

 

Hines CAYMC Larned Street Entrance Redesign SmithGroup
Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority Detroit. Michigan 10680.000

DESIGN NARRATIVE - 2 - 02/08/2019

SMITHGROUP

This document will serve as an agreement between us, and you may indicate your acceptance by signing
in the space provided below and returning one signed copy for our ?les

 

Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority (Signature)

Gregory McDuffee, Executive Director
(Printed name and title)

 

 

 

Date
Hines CAYMC Larned Street Entrance Redesign SmithGroup
Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority Detroit, Michigan 10680.000

DESIGN NARRATIVE - 3 - 02/08/2019

To:

 

February 12, 2019

Marcell R. Todd, Director Jamie Murphy

City Flaming Commission City Planner

From: Mike Kennedy

Re:

Larned Plaza Redesign Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Thanks again for meeting with me to discuss this project. I?ve listed the items below to
help explain the evolution in arriving to this most recent design:

1.

Over the past several years, the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority

(DWJ BA) has systematically performed phased subterranean repairs to the roof
membranes and expansion joints which have failed through the years and caused
substantial water damage to the lower level. The prior two phases, (southwest
and northeast locations) did not result in any changes to the site, as in both cases
we restored the site to the original aesthetic once the repairs were made.

The north section of repairs includes the Larned entrance. The original thought
was that the subterranean work would give us an opportunity to build out the
lobby to better accommodate the security screening function. Subsequently,
SmithGroupJ (SGJ R) designed a new plaza and entrance which was presented
to and approved by CPC and City Council.

The DWJ BA awarded Gilbane as the General Contractor, and after months of
planning and putting costs to the project, we found that the design was not
feasible logistically or ?nancially. Knowing that the primary focus of this project
is the urgent repair to the failed waterproo?ng, we decided to replace the site to
the current design, with the enhancements we proposed to you yesterday.

The new design enhancements will greatly improve safety and security to
employees and visitors who are dropped off. Since the Woodward closure and the
Jefferson bus stop addition, we have observed a dramatic increase in the Larned
entrance traf?c (pedestrian and vehicular). Our plan is to prohibit parking in the

?horseshoe? drive and use it exclusively for a dr0p off lane. This will eliminate
having employees and visitors being dr0pped off in a very busy street, and
provide a curbside drop off with enhanced ADA access. The new design falls
within the original budget which has been previously funded by capital dollars
from Wayne County and the City of Detroit.

5. The new design will also feature wider pedestrian walkways, canopy lighting
upgrades, benches, and an expanded bike plaza.

Hoping this information is helpful. Please let me know if you have any questions.

Thanks

In

'3

., COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER



2 WOODWARD Ave, Sums 808
i oi/ Demorr. MICHIGAN 48226
Cm 0F Dmorr PHONE BIS-22431339
i'l??gj?r PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 



Detroit City Planning Commission
208 CAYMC
Detroit, MI 482266

February 15, 2019

RE: Public Center (PC) Review of exterior changes at 2 Woodward Ave (RECOMMEND
APPROVAL)

The following is the Flaming and Developmeni Department?s (PDD) review of the proposed
exterior changes to the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, located at 2 Woodward Avenue.
This review is carried out per Sec. 61-11?76 for the review of developments located in the Public
Center (PC) zoning district.

Following is our response to the applicable criteria from Sec. 61-11-77, with our response in italics.

-l
The proposed development should re?ect applicable policies stated in the Detroit Master Plan;
The proposal adds bicycle parking, ?rrihering Goal 3 of ?Transportation and Mobility?

(3) The proposed development should be compatible with surrounding development in terms of
land use, general appearance and function and should not adversely affect the value of adjacent
properties; The changed drop-o?lane, bike rack. and benches ?t with the Civic Center.

(5) Adequate vehicular off-street parking and loading should be provided, where appropriate; The
redesigned drop-017 lane coniinues io provide 0 1street loading for municipal vehicles.

(7) Adequate rights-of?way, easements and dedijations should he provided where appropriate for
tral iicways, utilities and community facilities; 7' to provision bike rocks?rnciions as
a community facility.

(13) Barrier?free access and public safety features should be carefully planned; The ?ush curb at
the drop-o?' improves barrier-free access at the loading ?drop-o? area.

(16) Special attention should be given to amenity and comfort considerations such as provision for
outdoor seating, restrooms for public use, bicycle storage, convenience of access points and
protection from harsh weather through such features as enclosed walkways and arcaded pedestrian
areas; Additional bike racks and benches are provided.

Because of the conformance to the above standards for development in the PC district, the PDD is
pleased to support the proposed changes to the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center.

Respectfully Submitted,

Gregory 1-. Moots, Lead Planner
Of?ce of Zoning Innovation

CC: Karen Gage
Maurice Cox

DETROIT-WAYNE JOINT BUILDING AUTHORITY 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG
MUNICIPAL CENTER
CAPITAL MAINTENANCE
PROJECT PHASE1

LARNED PLAZA

 

 

 

SMITHGROUP

FEBRUARY 8. 2019

Existing Sim


"r K. 

23::

I: LARNED STREET (em VJDWE?mvaaraowm

i 

I ?2

i 

EL "If Ira??
.74. - . marlin (ti :4 1 -
ruff??: ?Tm/1'52? 

5m 

tum-1i

WOODWARD AVENUE
(190 momentumlath-?w


 

 


STEEL RAM:
5: MARBLE 

 

   

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 





    
   



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C?i?e?f?J. -IQUIFI. 
2 WCODWAHD ME PARCEL momo?wcaas

 

 

 

1

fun=39 

Harmanzmt?.



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



sax-sew 

JEFFERSON AVENUE (MFT mammewam

k?PlL'l 

Bike 8L Bench Locations




Security Updates

 

. 1? -
'Acumsmanow lum? 3 i 
14?5132? STEFL FEM -. I ti
. =aan?r MHELE EXERGR i 3 3; a
i
in. 52.34$357435? .. 
. mun-Lt: mun- 
. tuxfan:- i 
I -.. 
m: 5 004351uni-1n?? mu:- .1 . -


SMITHERIUPJJR

 - OVERALL VIEW

 
       

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EXISTING CONCRETE CURB XISTING LIGHTS T0 REMAIN IN
. LARNED STREET 
TO REMAIILI . PLACE DURING CONSTRUCTION NEW CONCRETE CURB .
EXTENT OF NEW PAVING SALVAGE REINSTALL 1? . PEOPLE EXISTING CONCRETE .
ON LARNED 1 BUS SHELTERS CURB in,? 51'; I
. ., ng comm?_f EL -- COLUMNS Sh. 3,95% Fm 
. CURB: - 
I .- - #3 LOADING DOCK
COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER (o
'4 DETROIT I I 
PLAZA .
- ENCLOSED
3 5 i I PARKING

- 
53"? 1'55 42JEFFERSON AVENUE CLJI

I a



0 30 60

Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority II Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Capital Maintenance Project Phase I smithgroup.com 2

PROPOSED PLAN - ENLARGEMENT



 
      
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STONE 


CONCRETE CURB

EXISTING CONCRETE
CURB
NEW CONCRETE
CURB

LARNED STREET

EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURES EXISTING
ALONG LARNEDTO CONCRETE
REMAIN IN PLACE DURING CURB

CONSTRUCTION

 

 

 

 

      
  
  
    
  

NEW SIDEWALK RAMP WITH
ETECTABLE WARNING MAT



 

PEOPLE MOVER
COLUMNS
CANOPY ROOF
OVERHEAD

 

 

 

MARBLE SITE WALL

 

 

 

CONCRETE 

    

ii: 

LNEW DROP-OFF



LNEW CONCRETE

 

PAVEM ENT

    
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RISERS WITH
STAINLESS STEEL
RAILINGS

RAMP WITH STAINLESS
STEEL RAILINGS

STAINLESS STEEL
TRENCH DRAINS

PEOPLE MOVER OVERHEAD STAINLESS 
STEEL BIKE 
RIGHT OF WAY RACKS (QTY: 17)
I:
GEES L. 
=9 
I
a 
:r

5\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ENTRANCE

 

STONE I
RELOCATED EXISTING

A. YOUNG
MUNICIPAL 

MARBLE SITE WALL
PLANTER

Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority I Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Capital Maintenance Project Phase I

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

CONCRETE WALK WITH
ACCESS TO 
RANDOLPH STREET

ILLUMINATING STAINLESS STEEL
BOLLARDS FLUSH CURB AT
DROP-OFF

69$

 


smithgroup com 3

SITE FURNISHINGS

STAINLESS STEEL BOLLARDS (ILLUMINATING)

I




. 1

?1

t-Ik'


 

 


smithgroupcom 4

Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority In Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Capital Maintenance Project Phase I

Z?i

Alton James ?it? of Etta it Brenda Goss Andrews

LChaiI'pfirSOI:l MCD Lisa Whitmore Davis
auren oo 'd AIA, LEED
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

February 14, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Plum Market for PCA (Public Center Adjacent) Special District Review of
proposed exterior alterations to 500 Woodward Avenue Ally Building (RECOMMEND
APPROVAL)

REQUEST

The City Flaming Commission (CPC) has received a request from Plum Market for PCA (Public
Center Adjacent) Special District Review of a proposed alteration to 500 Woodward Avenue 
Ally Building. This request is being made consistent with the provisions of Section 61-3-182 of
the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

PROPOSED PROJECT
The petitioner proposes to install an upscale grocery store including prepared foods, coffee bar,
wine bar and indoor outdoor seating. The pr0posed location is on the south side of the Ally
Building facing Larned Street (see the attached renderings). The previous tenant of this space was
a cafeteria style restaurant. Three exterior changes are proposed:

New entrance at the southwest corner of the building

New structure over the patio

Signage over entrance and on Woodward facade (see attached renderings)

REVIEW ANALYSIS
Surrounding Zoning Land Use

North: PCA (Public Center Adjacent) First National Building Vinton Building
East: PCA (Public Center Adjacent) parking garage

South: PC (Public Center) Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

West: PCA (Public Center Adjacent) vacant building

Master Plan Consistency

The subject site is located within the Central Business District area of Neighborhood Cluster 4 of
the Detroit Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use Map for this area shows Major
Commercial (CM) for this block which is appropriate for the proposed use. This development also
furthers the goal of increasing retail along Woodward Avenue.

Perm issibility of the Proposed Use

The proposed uses of Retail Store, Carry-Out Restaurant and Establishment for the sale of
alcoholic beverages for onsite consumption are by-right uses in the PCA district per Section 61?
11?86 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

PCA District Review Criteria
There are eighteen PCA District Review Criteria listed in Section 61-11-97 of the Zoning
Ordinance. A few of the most applicable are:

(3) The proposed development should be compatible with surrounding development in
terms of land use, general appearance and ?anction and should not adversely affect the
value of adjacent properties.

The proposed use and appearance are consistent with the adjacent properties. While the
use is similar to the previous tenant of this space, the addition of a small grocery store will
serve an unmet need in this area. The proposed design complements the additions on the
north side of the building for the Townhouse restaurant.

(5) Adequate public and private open space should be provided for light and air,
landscaping, and, where appropriate, for passive and active recreation.

The new design of the patio with a retractable roof covering will provide a more functional
and attractive outdoor seating area than the current patio.

Design
The Flaming Development Department has reviewed the proposed changes and recommends
approval.

Proposed Signage

The proposed signs for the new business include:

- the name of the business on the overhang above the main entrance (120 square feet)

- two projecting signs on the Woodward facade (34 square feet total)

- a wall sign reading ?wine - liquor? beside the main entrance (13.12 square feet)

All signs are proposed to be internally illuminated. The size and type of signage is appropriate for
the development; however, the City Plaming Commission was not in favor of the sign advertising
alcohol sales. Although the City is restricted by the First Amendment from regulating the content
of signs, CPC recommended that the exterior signage not reference the sale of alcohol.

RECOMMENDATION
On February 7, 2019, the City Flaming Commission voted to recommend approval of the proposed
exterior modi?cations to 500 Woodward Avenue with the following standard condition:

That ?nal site plans, elevations, landscape, lighting, and signage plans be submitted for
City Flaming Commission staff approval prior to making application for applicable
permits.

The CPC also recommended that the petitioner voluntarily refrain from the use of exterior signage
referencing the sale of alcohol. Staff has prepared and attached a resolution for approval for the
consideration of Your Honorable Body.

Respectfully submitted,
ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON
or M, ,8 

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Jamie J. Murphy, Staff

Attachment: Proposed Architectural Drawings
Exterior Renderings Proposed Signs

cc: Maurice Cox, Director, 
David Bell, Director, BSEED

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, Plum Market proposes to make exterior alterations to the building at 500 Woodward
Avenue including a new entrance, patio and signage; and

WHEREAS, the subject property is located within a PCA (Public Center Adjacent) zoning district;
and

WHEREAS, the Plaming and Development Department has provided their comments as to the
appropriateness of the proposed alterations; and

WHEREAS, on Thursday, February 7, 2019, the City Planning Commission voted to recommend
approval of the proposed alterations in accordance with the PCA District review criteria as listed in
Section 61-11-97 of Chapter 61 of the Detroit City Code, ?Zoning?; and

WHEREAS, although the City is restricted by the First Amendment from regulating the content of
signs, the City Plaming Commission recommended that the petitioner voluntarily refrain from the
use of exterior signage referencing the sale of alcohol. NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that the Detroit City Council hereby approves the proposed alterations to 500
Woodward Avenue as depicted in the drawings prepared by Saroki Architecture dated 12/26/2018,
with the following condition:

1. That ?nal site plans, elevations, landscaping, lighting and signage plans be submitted to the
staff of the City Plaming Commission for review and approval prior to application being
made for applicable permits.

I

 

PLUWHMMEEK

 

Ally Detroit Center
500 Woodward Avenue
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Tenant:

Plum Market

30777 Northwestern Hwy
Ferrnington Hills. Michigan 48334
T: 248.706.1600

Contact: Dan Keaton

Landlord:

Bedrock Detroit

630 Woodward Ave

Detroit. MI 48226

T: 888 300.9833

Contact: David Brown. Project Director

Architect:
Saroki Architecture
430 N. Old Woodward Avenue. Suite 300
Birmingham, Michigan 48009
T: 248.258 5707
Contacts: James DiMercurio
Denis Veneziano

General Contractor:
Jonna Construction

6200 Second Avenue. D102
Detroit. Michigan 48202

T: 313.800.5411

Contact: Frank Jonna

MEP Consultant

MA Engineering

400 S. Old Woodward Ave. Suite 100
Birmingham. MI 48009

248.258 1610

Contact: Salim Sessine. P.E

Structural Consultant:
Desai/?Nasr Consulting Engineers

6765 Dely Road

West Bloomfield. MI 48322

T: 248.932.2010

Contact: Anthanacios Nasr. P.E.

Food Service Consultant:
National Food Equipment

3186 Old Farm Lane

Walled Lake. MI 48390

T: 586.201.9105

Contact: Gary Kazanjian

Lighting Consultant:


5145 Livernois. Suite 100
Troy. Michigan 48098

T: 734.482.6066

Contact: Karl Geil. LC. IES

Refrigeration Consultant:
Hussmann

3123 Wilson Dr

Grand Rapids. MI 49534

T: 616 238.8225

Contact: Michael Peterson

Scope of Work:

1

The following drawings refer to the construction and interior build out on the 1st 8. 2nd Level of the existing Ally
Detroit Center building. The new tenant is a Mercantile designation and plans to renovate the whole interior portion
of his lease. Exterior construction consists of a new comer entry canOpy and new doors leading to an existing

outdoor patio.

Building Code Information:

2015 Michigan Building Code

2015 Michigan Mechanical Code

2015 Michigan Plumbing Code

2014 National Electrical Code

2015 Michigan Uniform Energy Code

2015 Edition NFPA 101

Barrier Free Requirements per PA Act 1 of 1966 as amended.
ADAAG 2010. and ICC ANSI A1 17.1-2009 Edition

Use Group:

Primary: (Mercantile)

Construction Type:

Construction Type: Type l-A. FULLY SPRINKLERED (Existing 8. No Change)

Building Area (Tenant):
Gross First Floor Area 6.834 S.F.
Gross Second Floor Area 1.181 S.F.

 

Total 8.015 S.F.

Occupant Load - Interior:
Per Section 1005 1006; Ftefer to Life Safety Sheets: LS110. L8120
(per Table 1004.1.2)

 

 

 

 

 

 

E: Calculation: Dccugants:
Mercantile 4.588 77
Assembly 1.186 15 79
Kitchen 900 SF 200 5
Storage 975 SF 300 4
Business 366 SF 100 4
Occupant Load - Interior: (8.015 S.F.) 169
Occupant Load - Outdoor seating:
Per Section 1005 a. 1006: Fiefer to Life Safety Sheets: 1.8110, 1.8120
(per Table 1004.1.2)
Use: Calculati?: Occugants:
Assembly 1.574 SF 15 105
Occupant Load - Outdoor seating 105
Total Combined Occupant Load 274
Plumbing Fixtures Count:
Per Table 403.1 M.P.C.
'Us_e: regumad regu-red required
WC. ratio: Lav. ratio: Drink. Fount. ratio:
Mercantile Kitchen (82 occ.) (1) per 500 0.16 (1) per 750 0.001 (1) per 1000 0.082

Assembly (184 occ.)
Storage (4 occ.)
Business (4 Doc.)

(1) per 75 2.45 (1) per 200 0.92
(1) per 100 0.04 (1) per 100 0.04
(1) per 25 0.16 (1) per 40 0.1

(1) per 500 0.37
(1) per 1000 0.004
(1) per 100 0.04

 

 

 

Total required fixtures 2.81 (Male Female) 1.06 (Male Female) 0.5

Total proposed fixtures 4 (2 Male 2 Female) 2 (1 Male 1 Female) 2

(Note:1 Service Sink provided in Kitchen)

Egress Requirements:

Per Chapter 10 M.P.C.. Tables 1006.3.1. 1006.2.1. 1017.2

Exits Fleguired: Progosed
(2) Exits (3) Exits

Common Path of Travel Allowed: Progoscd
75' 73'

Exit Access Travel Distance Allowed: Proposed
250' 160'

2 I a 4 I 



 

Sheet Index:

. 
. ?ErlliL'. 
wwmcuorisweo








. .



.
Iv - 

ARCHITECTURAL

r1310




re tr r.
Hun-"Ilar.
. 

rain-nun?




I 1 . 
Mn: :Eflitu 
If i ?'Iln' 
I: 

I: 
n'l rah; ?9.1
.
In - 



ZL-IFEIIF- 5

I 

STRUCTURAL









rirn MIN 









LT 
II: I-IU. .J 
.. an:
h'H?r?Vll'LFt 
I r~r- 

..

Finn}.




1 I 
I . a



othnul nitr-

.F?n'hli. 
. .l Lam-
I
m. 

m. 
T: 'll
[1:1 I.- .

l-lv' 

 

. I rIfAT?a':

Sheet Index:

. DRAWS SSUED

 

 

AVG. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a} site location map:




animus-run:

REFRIGERATION

HI 

till-. 

um: 
IV- r: 

.Il

IILI Ill'j: - I

IntFOOD SERVICE

3 1 I 

II EPINI

I I 



Thu"! -

- EGUPIENT







I "fatal! 
till-I". 'r 

F5 '23

LIGHTING CONSULTANT

- 11 I

7'l 






'1 
51? r:I::In':ni In n:



Li

M:



 

10

SAROKI

ARCHITECTURE

430 N. OLD WOODWARD
BIRMINGHAM. MI 48009

P. 248.258.5707
F. 248.258.5515



Project:

Plum Market Kitchen
MWM

mm mm

Date: Issued For:


-

um 

um
um ?u
?ll-II MOI

Sheet No 

G000



 


611 Woodward Ave.
02-00-18-949
Zoned PCA

5. 1 Woodward Ave
moo-19mg
Zoned 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Woodward Ave
02-00-19-105
Zoned PCA

WOODWARD AVE.

 

 

 

1500 Woodward Ave. 560' Woodward Aim.
13100-40311 91 43141-05
Zoned PEA zoned PEA

CONGRESS

 

 

 

 

 

Existing planters

Townhouse IDI
existing patio

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and: and
trash

 

 

 

 

 

 

FDCE Exk?ng
Building
{34.425 5 PER FLUUR i 1
4'3 story building with basement
5011 Woodward two if 
01-094mm 5;
Zoned PCA g:
Rosint?tod Contra: Bosmss District 3 
r: n.
3
I
5: ram Ara-noun :1.er

 

 

1w 1

Existing planters



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LARN ED
2 Woodward Ave.
01-00-406386
zoned OLD WOODWARD
BIRMINGHAM. Ml 48009

248253.5707
F. 248.258.5515



Projlcl:

Mm Kitchen

mil an

Dale: luuod For:
um 


mann?

No.:

A010




 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RC (KIWI 
_Il my. pry-aw

9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTE:

ALL EXTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS AND
MODIFICATIONS (HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW) ARE
SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY AND WILL BE
ISSUED UNDER A SEPARATE PERMIT
SUBMISSION.

 

 

 

 

 

Em FloorPlan

inf-1H?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$6

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



n. 
Old?4

10 I

 

 

0mmllu" I-l-l 
ALOCATI l-S



C. "5 

UTFIL IIEIHFR 
IONS

HI: Ll: Ill'?. . .
DC I'l? SEA IEIDTOLIE 
CFC ll'

EI430 OLD WOODWARD
BIRMINGHAM, MI 48009

248 258 5707
2482585515

SaroklArchItecture.com

Project:

Plum Market KItchen


DOIIDI. mm

Date: Issued For:
mama mm
IBM mm
mm! 
?-1501! mm

Ii? 3F. 

Sheet No.:

A110



 

 

 

 

 

 

I: 


 

SAROK

ARCHITECTURE
430 N. OLD WOODWARD

BIRMINGHAM. 43009


P. 243.253.5707
F. 248.253.5515



Project:

Plan Market Kitchm
?Wh-
mum

Data qu-d For:
um 
?o-m -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"run. .u 

II .lI'GI. .mIzLa 51m - I-ILwasnx-ALLsmLDUMILE nus: ED Awuwumm. I I . .-
I
ummv -- . - . I
7M cupmaze-usvu1nl- I
.-- Na . :l
ow: BASS ?v I 
OI o:suuswu;urz I
II I I.
vmw?mxt 
. .. .
main run anCONCRETE 
I .- . 
I ~an El 31M. M11. ERR sun aw 
.-.- I: r. -I- II
Il'll-lv I.I N. 
A I
II. II-.-IIl'lr Ic JulEwan-D 
I me 
GENERAL NOTES:

ALL SIGNAGE TO BE SUBMITTED


 

UNDER SEPARATE PERMIT.

 

 

 

-. 



 

 

 

 

 

 

   

4- mi
GLUIHC I
In 7 I



430 OLD WOODWARD
BIRMINGHAM. MI 4500'!

248.2585707
248 258.5515

 

TNSII 

 

 

 

SarokIArchItecture.com

 

Prolect:
Plum Market KItchen

amwboduudks
mum

 

Dan: luued For:

 

 



 

 

IMO-EM mm

 

 

 

I. . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTE:

ALL EXTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS AND
MODIFICATIONS (HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW) ARE
SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY AND WILL BE
ISSUED UNDER A SEPARATE PERMIT
SUBMISSION.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Shea! No.:

 

adF r' -Veatibu a A301

me 
ENLARGED CANOPY PLAN
- ELEVATION

 

NOTE:
ALL EXTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS AND

URTAIN ALL 5? HI) (RUE 

5100.5 BASE FDNOIEW

DIR (FEWIGS MD RETURN 
I: 


Yr .0- 

I :r - 1.1-

I .1 ?Il 

a 

MODIFY EA SING PA: ERS

WHEGRTESIJGBASE MDPROYDEIIEW
I I . 

II . 
HEW

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 



MODIFICATIONS (HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW) ARE
SHOWN FOR REFERENCE ONLY AND WILL BE

ISSUED UNDER A SEPARATE PERMIT

SUBMISSION.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.W
IWITW

4 I

      
     

-: l' All)? 
wm IIsuLArrn we M5 5
0: DESIGN SMELITE IWSFRIEE
sum mtcnulsnw

51 
I I 
I I'f' WITH
CUT EXISTING SIONE EASE new
I - "run .430 OLD WOODWARD
BIRMINGHAM. MI 48009

245 258.5707
248 258.5515

SaroklArchItecture.com

ProIoct:

Plum Market Kltohen
snowman.
mum

Dale: quad For:

W-IWI MW

Show! No.:

A302

NEWENTFIYDOOFI- PLAN


  
  
  
   

 

P.O.BOX9804Q3 I 
YPSILANTI, Ml 48198 
PHONE 734?483-2000 .- - 
1?800?783-0100 5 I, 4"
FAX 734-483?5164 a)
I 
A Division of a Ci 
Johnson Sign INTERNATIONAL SIGN ASSOCIATION 
DESIGN COMPETITION a.
AWARD WINNER . [BEST UP THE BEST 
AWARD WINNER I . NIGHT SIMULATION
WHITE ACRYLIC 3M LIME GREEN
LL 3M RASBERRY 3M GREEN
PMS 220
Ii, 
APPROXIMATE SIZE POSITION 17 SQFT EA- SCALE 3/4 1
34 SOFT TOTAL
IITO . .
Undemmers OF SETS 1 RETURN DEPTH 12" RACEWAY COLOR A. IDESIGNER SWILKIE .
Laboratories, Inc. FACE COLOR SEE ABOVE TYPE OF INSTALL MAST TRANSFORMER NA. IDAIE 12i12i18 APPROVED BY- DATE.
RETURN COLOR WHITE TYPE OF FACE BALLAST N-A- NO- 
RETAINER COLOR WRITE RACEWAY H. NA. COMMENTS: JOB NAME 

 

LED COLOR WHITE HOUSINGS NA. KEVIN SHORT ADDRESS: 500 WOODWARDAVE.. DETROIT. MI ms DESIGN CONCEPT COPYRIGHT 2018

 

663 S. MANSFIELD
PO. BOX 980423
YPSILANTI, MI 48198
PHONE 734-483?9000
1?800-783?0100
FAX 734-483-5164


A Division of

Johnson Sign 00.



INTERNATIONAL SIGN ASSOCIATION

DESIGN CDMPETITIDN
AWARD WINNER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BEST CIF THE BEST
AWARD WINNERI

 

 

 

 

 

 

31'8" 1??2 5i8'

 

2'-6 



      

 

 

 

7: fflam

SECTION 1
2 80 SOFT

74 SQFT

SECTION 2 

gr

.. 

1'-83i'

 

77.6 SOFT I

rm

1711p"

 

WHITE ACRYLIC

3M RASBERRY
PMS 220

 

  

I

WILL HAVE

(1) J-BOX ON

BACK OF

PARAPET FOR

SECONDARY 


  
 
 


OUTDOOR ENCLOSUR
POWER SUPPLIES 


 



4I-6 1,2"

(1) 20a 120v
Lax?1?? DEDICATED CIRCUIT
WITH DISCONNECT

OTHERS)



 

3M LIME GREEN

3M GREEN

    
 
      
  
  
 
 

 
 

 
   
   

 

SECONDARY WIRE WILL r3:
NEED TO DISTRIBUTE .
WITHIN THIS CAVITY



 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 1i4" SECTION 2
26 SOFT
ALL ELECTRICAL SIGNS TO

BEAR THIS MARK 1 .

Underwriters OF SETS 1 IRETURN DEPTH 5" LTR RACEWAY COLOR NA. IDESIGNER SWILKIE . .

Laboratories, Inc. FACE COLOR LIME 1TYPE OF INSTALL DIRECT MOUNT TRANSFORMER NA. IDATE 12i12i18 APPROVED BY. DATE.
RETURN COLOR OF FACE 3/16" ACRYLIC IBALLAST NA. NO. ?1'3 

ELECTRIC SIGN RETAINER COLOR MATCH RETURN I RACEWAY D. H. L. N.A. NAME CONSENTFROM HURONS.IGN COMPANY 

CERTIFIED MANUFACTURER LED COLOR WHITE IHOUSINGS N.A. KEVIN SHORT ADDRESS: SOD WOODWARD AVE. DETROIT, MI THIS DESIGN 2018

 

 

663 S, MANSFIELD
P.OI BOX 980493
YPSILANTI, MI 48198
PHONE 734?483-9000

FAX 734?483?5164


A Division of

Johnson Sign 00.

 

51

INTERNATIONAL SIGN ASSOCIATION

 

 

DESIGN COMPETITION
WINNER

 

 

WSA

VUDFILD ?lo-H AQEOCIATIH

  

 

BEST EIF THE BEST
AWARD WINNER

 



 

ALL ELECTRICAL SIGNS TO
BEAFI THIS MARK

Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc.
-SUITABLE FOR WET LOCATIONS-

IN ACCORDANCE WITH NEC 600
ELECTFIIC SIGN

CERTIFIED MAN UFACTUFIEFI

 

 

 

13:12 SQFT
OF SETS 1
FACE COLOR TBD

RETURN COLOR
RETAINER COLOR
LED COLOR

TO MATCH
MATCH RETURN
WHITE

Custom Beveled Edge Low Profile Wall Sign

pI a rke



Fun



I



I win-e - quuor.

. E212.

 

I
I.

. SCALE 3/16" 1'
KPRIMARY
CIRCUIT

ON INSIDE

WALL
WHITE ACRYLIC

3M BLACK

 

TBD

NIGHT SIMULATION

SCALE 1/2" 1?

DESIGNER WILKIE

RETURN DEPTH 4.25" RACEWAY COLOR NA.

TO MATCH WALL

    

 
   

DATE:

 

OF INSTALL DIRECT MOUNT TRANSFORMER NA. DATE 12/12/18 APPROVED BY:
OF FACE ALUMINUM BALLAST NA NO. I 
RACEWAY 0' COMMENTS: JOB NAME 

HOUSINGS NA. SALESPERSON: KEVIN SHORT ADDRESS: 500 WOODWARD AVE.. DETROIT. MI

THIS PROVIDED r31 INTENDED FOR 
PRODUCT MAY BE
SURJECI IO 8 TO
AID (JR ENABLE FABRICAIIOF-I PROCEDURES

THIS DESIGN 9.018

 

 

 




 

 

 

    
    
    




n?
A.












I KNOW WHAT
THAT THING IS.

BUT KEEP AWAY
FROM MY MONEY

. Jngx?v??n

- 

.- ?0 
I .I x-V-
a 




~3

I

 

50

Alton James @it? at Eattu it Brenda Goss Andrews

MCD Lisa Whitmore Davis
uren oo .
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 3:353:33? 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov
February 14, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: Request of Zaid Arabo on behalf of Jerry Pattah to amend the existing PD (Planned

Development) zoning classi?cation on District Map 6, Article XVII, of the 1984

Detroit City Code Chapter 61, ?Zoning? for the property located at 500 E. Warren
Avenue generally bounded by St. Antoine Street, E. Hancock Street, Brush Street
and E. Warren Avenue. (RECOMMEND APPROVAL WITH CONDITIONS)

BACKGROUND AND PROPOSAL

The City Planning Commission (CPC) has received a request from Zaid Arabo on behalf of Jerry
Pattah requesting that the City of Detroit amend the provisions of the existing PD (Flamed
Development) zoning classi?cation on District Map No. 6, Article XVII, of Chapter 61 of the 1984
Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? for the property located at 500 E. Warren Avenue generally bounded by
St. Antoine Street, E. Hancock Street, Brush Street and E. Warren Avenue. The site was rezoned
from B4 (General Business) and R5 (Medium Density Residential) to PD in 1974.

The site is currently developed with a multiple tenant shopping center. The anchor tenant is a large
supermarket and ?ve smaller units containing restaurants and a nail salon.

Proposed Development

The applicant proposes to build a one-story, 9,500 square foot building at the southeast corner of the
site for a Secretary of State branch of?ce. The exterior cladding would be burnished block for the
lower four feet, topped by a 2? limestone sill and brick for the remainder. A ?ve foot landscaped
setback would separate the building from the public sidewalk.

No additional curb cuts are proposed; the existing curb cuts will be utilized. The parking lot will be
recon?gured resulting in fewer parking spaces. Several trees at the southeast corner of the
site will be removed, but extensive new landscaping is proposed including street trees and landscaped
islands in the parking lot to manage storm water runoff.

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
Surrounding Zoning and Land Use
The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:

North: PD Townhouses (3-story) and Multiple-Family Dwelling (7?story)
East: PD Plymouth United Church of Christ

South: R5 Hospital (4-story)
West: PD Multiple?Family Dwelling (9-story)

Analysis
Because this site was previously zoned B4, those standards are used as a benchmark for reviewing
the PD proposal. The proposal meets the following standards:
- Use: Governmental service agency is allowed by?right
- Setbacks maximum lot coverage: no requirements
- Minimum lot dimensions area: no requirements
- Height: 35? maximum allowed; the tallest portion of the proposed building is 21.3? high
- Loading spaces: 3 required total; 4 existing
- Right-of?way screening: Requirement 5? wide strip with trees every 30? and 30?-36? high
screen of vegetation, berm or masonry wall; existing landscape strip is 20? wide and has a
berm, trees will be added every 30?

Several other standards are moderately de?cient:
- Parking: Requirement 154 for existing building 63 for new building 217 total; 185
proposed, 32 de?cient
- Interior landscaping: Requirement 4,070 sq. ft. (22 sq. ft. per parking space); existing
about 1,120 sq. ft. with an additional 1,980 sq. ft. proposed, 970 de?cient

Approval Criteria

Section 61?3-97 of the zoning ordinance gives the criteria for whether a change to an existing PD
development is minor or major. This proposal meets the criteria for a major change?speci?cally, an
increase in gross ?oor area in excess of 5% and an increase in coverage by structure.

This proposal appears to meet the eight approval criteria for a map amendment listed in Section 61-3?
80 of the zoning ordinance, speci?cally:

The amendment will protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the public. The
proposed Secretary of State of?ce will provide a needed service to the surrounding
community.

0 The amendment will not have adverse impacts on the natural environment. The proposed
landscaping improvements will greatly decrease the storm water directed to the city?s sewer
system and the planting of additional trees and shrubs will be positive for the natural
environment.

It also meets the PD District design criteria in Section 61?11-15, speci?cally:

Compatibility The proposed building is compatible with the existing structure and will
complement the surrounding development.

0 Parking Loading The existing parking is drastically under-utilized and although the
parking provided does not meet the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance, it is adequate for
this particular site.

I Screening The improvements proposed as part of this project include an enclosure for an
existing trash container adjacent to Hancock Street and upgrades to the landscaping which
screens the parking lot from the right?of?way.

Master Plan Consistency

The subject site is located within the Lower Woodward area of Neighborhood Cluster 4 of the
Detroit Master Plan of Policies. The Future Land Use map for this area shows ?Medium Density
Residential? for the subject property. The Planning Development Department has submitted a
report stating that the proposed development is consistent with the Master Plan.

2

City Planning Commission Public Hearing

Midtown Detroit Inc. spoke at the public hearing and submitted a letter, generally in support of the
modi?cation but concerned about several maintenance issues at the site including graf?ti and
landscaping. The Planning Commissioners had numerous concerns which were addressed with
conditions.

REVIEW
The review of this proposal has been somewhat complicated and full of delays. Here is a brief
timeline:

June 2018 The architect submits for site plan review to the Buildings, Safety Engineering
and Environmental Department. They are informed that site plan review is not required for
the project despite the requirement of Section 61?3-1 13(8) of the zoning ordinance which
speci?es that projects in a PD zoning district do require site plan review.

July 2018 The architect submits for the building permit. The application is routed to City
Flaming Commission as a reviewer as required by the PD zoning district. CFC staff informs
the architect that site plan review is required including a PD modi?cation which includes
public hearings at both the City Planning Commission and City Council.

August 2018 The application is submitted to CFC for the PD modi?cation. The architect is
informed about illegal signage at the site which needs to be removed or properly permitted.
September 2018 The project is presented to the City Flaming Commission prior to the
scheduling of the public hearing. Several Commissioners raised concerns such as current
maintenance of the site, lack of storm water mitigation features landscaping, placement of
the building and general building aesthetics. The Flaming Development Department also
reviewed the proposed plans and suggested several improvements including better
connections for the walkways, larger windows in the lobby and differentiating the entrance
from the other facades. Midtown Detroit Inc. submitted a letter of support contingent on
removal of graf?ti and better maintenance of landscaping. The architect expressed intentions
to change the location of the building and eliminate existing trees that were previously
marked for preservation.

Early October 2018 The public hearing at City Planning Commission is held on October 4.
Although same day action was originally planned, lack of progress on previously discussed
issues leads to a delay until the next meeting. A representative from the Secretary of State
spoke via phone at the CFC hearing which was very helpful in answering Commissioners?
questions. Renderings of the proposed building are presented which are unacceptable
including blank walls, no landscaping, no signage, tinted windows and incompatible colors.
Late October 2018 The project is again before the City Planning Commission at the 10/18
meeting. Despite advice to bring the site into compliance, illegal signage was still present and
graf?ti was being covered the morning of the meeting. However, based on improvements to
the plans, staff recommends approval with several conditions and City Flaming Commission
voted to recommend approval also. The architect and property owner agree to improve the
renderings and correct the violations at the site.

January 2019 CFC staff visits the site in preparation for submitting the report to City
Council. Illegal signage, trash and graf?ti are still present. The architect and property owner
are informed and agree to comply.

February 2019 A permit application is submitted for the remaining illegal signage, but
review is delayed due to the applicant not having a current sign erector license. Although the
site is still not in compliance, the project is moved forward to avoid additional delays.

Your Honorable Body may wish to consider the above before advancing this matter further.

Throughout this extended process, Secretary of State staff have always been willing to answer
questions and have been very helpful in encouraging the property owner to improve the site and
bring it into compliance.

RECOMMENDATION
On October 18, 2018, the City Flaming Commission voted to recommend approval of this PD
modification request with the following conditions:
1. That landscaping is installed and maintained as shown on the submitted Landscape Plan
prepared by Zaid Arabo Design Build and last revised 10/17/2018.
2. That interior landscaping islands are designed and constructed to DWSD standards for storm
water retention.
3. That all existing graf?ti on the site is removed and the site is maintained in a
graf?ti-free condition to the extent practicable in accordance with City Code.
4. That windows marked as ?frosted or tinted glass? on the elevations are in fact frosted glass in
order to better replicate the appearance of clear windows.
5. That the site continue to participate in the Project Green Light Program with the Detroit
Police Department including any modi?cations made necessary by the new building.
6. That ?nal site plans, elevations, lighting, landscape and signage plans be submitted by the
developer to the staff of the City Flaming Commission for review and approval prior to
submitting applications for applicable permits.

The ordinance establishing the map amendment has been reviewed and approved as to form by the
Law Department and is attached for your consideration.

Respect?ally submitted,

ALTON JAMES, CHAIRPERSON



. 

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Jamie J. Murphy, Staff

Attachments: Rezoning Ordinance
PDD Master Plan Interpretation
District Map 6
CPC Public Hearing Notice
Proposed Plans and Renderings

cc: Maurice Cox, Director, PDD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
James Foster, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
Arthur emison, Group Executive

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly known as
the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, Zoning District Map No. 6 to modify
an existing PD (Planned Development District) zoning classi?cation established by Ordinance
902-G on land bounded by East Warren Avenue to the north, St. Antoine Street to the east,
Hancock Street to the south, and Brush Street to the west to allow a new building to be constructed

at the existing shopping center.

COUNCIL MEMBER

 

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,?
commonly known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, by amending Article XVII, Zoning District
Map No. 6 to modify an existing PD (Flamed Development District) zoning classi?cation
established by Ordinance 902-G on land bounded by East Warren Avenue to the north, St. Antoine
Street to the east, Hancock Street to the south, and Brush Street to the west to allow a new building
to be constructed at the existing shopping center.

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 61, Article XVII, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zom'ng,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, is amended as follows:

District Map No. 6 is amended to show a PD Planned Development District] zoning

 

classification as established by Ordinance No. QUE-G currently shown on land described as:

 

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne and State of Michigan bounded by

 

East Warren Avenue to the north. St. Antoine Street to the cast. l-lancocit Street to

the south. and Brush Street to the west.

 

The Detroit City Council approves the ?Proposed Michigan Department of State? site and

 

landscape plans and elevations as drawn by Zaid Arabo Design Build, and dated October I7. 2018,

with the following conditions:

 

1. That landscaping is installed and maintained as shown on the approved Landscape Plan.
2. That interior landscaping islands are designed and constructed to DWSD standards for

storm water retention.

 

3. That all existing graf?ti on the site is removed and the site maintained in a

graffiti-tree condition to the extent practicable in accordance with City Code.

 4. That windows marked as ?frosted or tinted glass" on the elevations are in fact frosted

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 glass in order to better replicate the appearance of clear windows.
3 5. That the developer consult with the Detroit Police Department to identil?v and implement
4 any changes to the Green Li Program cameras onsite as a result of the construction.
5 6. That ?nal site plans. elevations. lighting. landscape and signage plans he submitted by the
6 developer to the st?afl'ofthe City Planning Commission for review and approval prior to
7 submitting applications for applicable permits.
8 Section 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are
9 repealed.

10 Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,

11 health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

12 Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication
13 in accordance with MCL and Section 4-118, paragraph 3 of the 2012 Detroit City
14 Charter.

15

16 Approved as to form:

17

13 

l9 kJjawrence T. Garcia
20 Corporation Counsel

COLMAN A YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313)224-1339 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT DETROITMI GOV

 

Mr. Marcell Todd

City of Detroit

Legislative Policy Division

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

October 18, 2018

RE: Master Plan of Policies Review of a proposal to modify an existing PD (Planned
Development) zoning classi?cation for development at 500 E. Warren for a Secretary of
State Facility

Dear Mr. Todd:

Pursuant to the City of Detroit?s City Charter (Sections 6-202 and 6-204), the Planning and
Development Department?s Planning Division submits the following review of a proposed
Planned Development District (PD) modi?cation.

The petitioner, Zaid Arabo, has requested to modify the plans for the existing PD (Planned
Development District) to construct a Midtown facility for the Secretary of State.

Project Location:
500 E. Warren

Existing Site information
The subject site is zoned PD. The subject site is a 3.73 acre lot. The Master Plan Future General
Land Use designation for the site is Medium Density Residential

Project Proposal:

Project is seeking to construct a Secretary of State Facility in Midtown Detroit. The project proposes
the new construction of a 9,500 SF structure on a 3.73 acre site. The subject parcel is zoned as
Planned Development (PD), the project proposed will remain zoned PD. Project will o?'er off-street
surface parking for 185 vehicles.

Integpretation:
Impact on Surrounding Land Use
The proposed development will contribute additional ?retail and local services? uses as allowed
by PD development in the immediate site area.

Impact on Transportation
There are DDOT transit routes to the west along Woodward, to the south along Can?eld and to
the north along Warren. The Q-Line rail is also on Woodward Avenue.

 

 

Master Plan Interpretation:
The Master Plan Future General Land Use designation for the site is RM (Medium Density
Residential)

Medium Density Residential areas should have an overall density of l6 to 24 dwelling units per net
residential acre. The areas are o?en characterized by multi-unit apartment buildings with a common
entrance and shared parking. The residential classi?cations allow for neighborhood-scale commercial
development. For instance, in a Low/Medium Density Residential area, small scale commerce 
convenience stores) should exist to serve residents's day?to-day needs.

The proposed Secretary of State Facility, currently zoned PD, will expand ?retail and local service?
offerings to area residents and Detroiters.

The development conforms to the Future General Land Use designation for the area.

Attachment: Future General Land Use Map: Map 4-SB, Neighborhood Cluster 4, Lower
Woodward

Respectfully Submitted,

Esther Yang
Planning and Development Department

Maurice Cox, Director, 



Alton James ?it? of metro it Brenda 0055 Andrews

LChairpic-fsorcll, MCD Lisa Whitmore Davis
auren 00 'd LEED
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the City Planning Commission in the Committee of the Whole
Room, 13th Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48326 on

THURSDAY. OCTOBER 4, 2018 AT 5:15 PM

to consider the proposal of Jerry Pattah to modify the plans for the existing PD (Plamed
Development District) zoning classi?cation on District Map No. 6, Article XVII of the 1984
Detroit City Code, Zoning, for the property located at 500 East Warren Avenue generally bounded
by St. Antoine Street, E. Hancock Street, Brush Street and E. Warren Avenue. The subject property
is indicated on the accompanying map.

The change in the existing PD district is being proposed to allow for the construction of a new
building for a Secretary of State branch of?ce.

The existing zoning district is generally de?ned by the Zoning Ordinance as follows:
PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT

This district will permit planned developments throughout the City and will be particularly useful
in urban renewal areas. Such planned developments shall be substantially in accord with the goals
and objectives of the Master Plan, by having a major land use that corresponds to the most general
category of land use, which are Residential, Public/Civic/Institutional, Retail/ Service/ Commercial,
Manufacturing and Industrial, and Other, proposed in the Master Plan for the area involved. Such
planned developments shall provide a desirable environment for the uses proposed and shall not
be out of harmony with their general surroundings. The regulations of the district are designed to
accomplish this by permitting ?exibility in overall development while ensuring adequate
safeguards and standards for public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare and, where
applicable, encouraging historic preservation.

The proposed modi?cation is being considered by the City Plaming Commission in accordance
with the provisions of Article Division 4 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance. A major PD
modi?cation requires the approval of the City Council after a public hearing and after receipt of a
report and recommendation by the City Plaming Commission.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce, City Flaming Commission, 208 Coleman A. Young
Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (fax: 313?224-4336, email: 
Because it is possible that some who have interest in this matter may not have been noti?ed, it is
suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so that they too may express their opinions if
they desire.

An interpreter for the hearing impaired will be present at the meeting if requested at least 48 hours
in advance. If interpretation or translation services are needed please call The Department of Civil
Rights, Inclusion Opportunity, Ryan Crigle at (313) 224-1516 or (313) 224?4950.

For additional information concerning this proposal or the scheduled hearing, please call
313-224?6225ET: nAx-WARREN AVE. <r
?vmmn-uhu 
.-- ?Wu.12L4. 1:352:5333. .1. 1 i* AREA HANCOCKAVE. MODIFIED l.P-I.-n .

Ctr. .4

(Wuhan-

 

 

 

7814

 

5613

 

3412

 

 

 

 

 




I
I

AV

 

     
    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

as I i my, FEHDRIE AVEHENDRIE ?pull-51254-114 run-m- AVE559toe KIRBY AVEmurmur"End's-3'1? i PEI 

'1 _l ngh?Ull?w?4 
a [El-j 

El $3
I I?f?g??ji? 


AVE- I
I WARREN AVEI'?l 
H: PD q:
HANCOCK GARFIELD 
I- I 
g:
F- - . 115' . 
3 ?Eh-:1 ?1
3 
iv: - SuJ'Ewl-l} AVE. - Sec. 35-245mum?n: mug.

6 (2-14-2019)

 

 

 

r?E' REINF 
FACE 

 

DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE PI. AN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DUMFSTE IQ GATE DETAIL.

 

 

 

PAR 5 GATEs
I t: CEDAQ BOARDS
ON 5T: PLATE

.. -N CRoss ERACE

COLLAR 

. TO
I . GATE FRAME

 
 

-- CANE BCLTE

CHARD UJILCCX
'524-F2i INTO

0 PIPE SLEEVES
IN CONCRETE

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

NO 5CALE
PERI 
I FEEDER I ..
IT. .13SCALE
NORTH

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

    

PROPOED 3E ..

NEIU CONC. PATH TO 
CONNECTED TO EXIST
SIDELUALK

NELU 5315'
LANDING AND
RAMP - 

 
 
 

 

3 I3 I 3 NORTHWESTERN
HWY.. SUITE I04
FARMINGTON HILLS.
MICHIGAN 48334
OFFICE- 248-767-6928
FAX-2455645277

 

PROJECT:

PROPOSED
MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT
OF STATE

500 E. WARREN
AVE. DETROIT,
MICHIGAN 48201

      
 
 
  


ISSUED FOR:

REVIEW

   

 

 

If: 51.95: A gg??ffg 0327-2013
PROPOSED MICHIGAN REVISED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE 03052013
1003-2018
10-12-2018
ERRY PATMH 1047-2018

EASTPONTE, Ml 4820i
248?701-6002

 

 

 

 

 

. IO 5PACE5 ON 5m IIJALK
SITE DATA. SHALL BE DEDICATED To
ZONED. 3-4 sos EMPLOYEES ONLY
SIZE: Ital/~54 5F - 3.13 ACE

BUILDING DATA:



31,831 SF (GROSS)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DECREASE THE SIZE OF
THE EXI5T APP BY 5?

NOTE. OILNER TO

 

   

 

 

REMOVE GRAFFITI 
USEAELE: 30219 5.: (was 9- EXISTING swam,
PROPOSED BUILDING.- EEM 5F (GROSS)
USEABLE: mu 5.: 150?. OF ERoss) N013BBIZ 5F DIRECTED To NEI-U 
us: GROUP: 5 (BUSINESS) SEC. 324
25 NOTE: UIALL PACK DN 

. - TSCA -
BUILDING RATIO: 23329. OF PRINTS

Ex ILO
DIMENSIONS ONLY
PARKING DATA:
7.3 LE .a gig: 

H- .9. . Raw JOB NO.
ONE SPACE PER 29a (@2055)
TOTAL SEQUIEED: 31,5522 5r- Izw - Isa amp-Es PROPOSED SITE PLAN 1 8?0 1 2
TOTAL SPACES SCALE 39'
SHEET N0.
REGUIRED- a 
PROVIDED: :2 SPACES

AS. I



 

r. Uivc?w?n

0M EmbA NNb/Ume

.03le hm U..Nmn.lm.U

..01. {w WLMKEU



Emm nuclwm - Jimsurm mag/U
mem mle .mmrb?QZ
40 EZGI OEUW kw WOMM

..0 EmSOmellw 
nub: 0n ICPOI

?mi?mUUmU ICFOI.
?Pb/3.7.0 


Db? . 03mm.

n??w?w

 

  
 
 
  
    

1.m?mDBmU

s-?I

magmmbUm 

 

 

 

 

 

   

  
   
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

    

 

ESL IDA
. .
mImcw . . .. ..J LKL.
Emb? 3mm Ema". 9 Um4b 3v. 
7.0 J. Umwf zo /7 . 
202.11 .

001.390de ?0100?
mm30<m wc?lb? ..0.U

Xmiw. 1.26800 ?.an mab?mm
dummy
bn?nEl 3.x

wWOwOmmU 
O.n 



 

?01312." .
.93 31>: ..: . n?npnau 639.. o. .2 0mm?
58. z: no . Fa. m?mm

 

 

mm?Ucocm .0ngsz 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.rbzq Krammir 
. och/4. 003102 m?m
. ..JI . . .mmu. .1. ..mm .. .mman?.


. mmcoz?cm . Debt-n wcm?zml 
Nu .. (mmwnorom 9% Fun. M. 
Mu new?. nbmotzu. .ubm??m mowm mm. Ququmb brz?OrS 3.. 
$289229 ..: n. 9-.
mmna?mu. o?mbMN arbz Mm. mobnmm . 6 mm .umm I 

 
 
     

.?bm?im Qubnum. _m 2mm. . DUMB 
?t.UmU 5me 

r>ZUmn>wm 204mm?

Egagwo?m 33.. .6 5E. rh?umnbm?zm .70 8mm]; m?hmx?am
0n DJ. .0 3.30: Hog?K. Oaibrnm

mammommu 
wron? .. cm
?Um. - aux ..

 

75..er L: 0mm."w .0 Eu: .nrbz.._v$ ?b??m0w PLO muchma
..ZU 

gm?ngambhqom rgb?nz 9 50mg ?rmimm. 31mm .26
bm. Pm ronbjoz 53:20 P6 (smomqbzo? gzm?ga?bhaon
mm magi-m ?on Emma Uzm ?0 Ub?b?ms?mg?? 01 920



L. b5 Wmunmmz 112m. 29mm. Um._b.um P6 0902.96 mm
=4..mUS?er? Mmomqmo ?0 ..Im Eton 
me?m .0er nmwr?zw?F?J. Urn. 40 Tarzan. ..O 264.33.?

Symm?ouambnqom magmrm .uQ? ?0 mama?.75 
Dang 0243.04.01.

02m @9205. ..ZU 9.me. m4.

Oarmm.

.. 2.5.2 or. .urbz.. unthEhw >6 ..Iemm .zU??pamU
9 .urbzw ?E?4?na0m _w mmw?gm?rm mom 223.1849. 0n Dakzq?mw 0E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

m. mtg?v 1% 3.20m By?gzqm Drbzu In?abr Ponbjg _z .u?mrp hm
-tm rgbjoz ?vb/.4 1.qume Wm 40 359.. E4 
gm?

bL. .urb74 mm 0" wuwmm 02.50 mom _2 ?rbzu mnImUnrmm .24
p.924 Jbam?k. Immnazm ..Tm 9HU 20.63 bu ?brrmu no.? TEL. Wm g0
I091 msm. ht. mIbrr mm Zm?mnqmu bzo bm?meMU. 9. Eatnvm?mo
mammzabuzm 1.0 $3.45.ng 0n .urb74 writ. mm 3.6m ?lings?.-

41m 

5 EL. meammu 03m u. m4. E4m0$3xm0 @mm 

.urbZAKwam UmabF. Om UmEUth 4mm. .Emm


UrbL?Zm WmUm .6 mm ambumn nmm.m3m?amz.. tmw??m 0.2mm?nx?mbnam 9.2L.
.chmm .urbzu Thamm?r mm?abza ?0 zmmEQUm imam .26

bm?r?b?a "Oerkm. Z?gqc?mm mag," DB. ?.45 5.6 .m bluLmU

.2 gnarrnm 8:6 
97mm~09mb040m 354 P10 EUmemoEU $055.02 min?m:

.:bZUmObmum 

?op?IN. 1. we.

 

      
 
 

 

u. .w zoquimmamzz
.9.
3.53.2032 
3.9.5.92 
o??nm . gumummwm


I:

 



13010mm0
:JnEmrz



moo m. 

th0.


?ncmo won.


8.3.3. 



ombmho . 
.obmho . 
.9. m.mo . 
?ne . 

no 20.. mot-m 13.23.
Eocmmo
0.2mzm_ozm oz:

..om zo.



zo.



 

A
DB

 

SIS I 3 NORTHWESTERN
HWY.. SUITE 104
FARMINGTON HILLS.
MICHIGAN 43334
OFFICE - 2487676928
FAX - 2158-5645277

 

Hz: 
Ax 
SOLITI-IUJEST ELEVATION ELI

BOG-LEI - 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Th PROJECT:
1/
PROPOSED
4173-3- . . 
DEPARTMENT
. OF STATE
. . 500 E. WARREN
?9 mm, ?new AVE. DETROIT,

. +w (r3593: ISSUED FOR:
NORTHEAST ELEVATION LI - 
owe. . r-o- ILL) 7 REVIEW
?j I I I -, 03-27-2018

2/ REVISED
I. 08-06-2018
10032018
I 1 A -. 10-12-2018
10-17-2018
3'33??
SOUTHEAST ELEVATION 
- II 
5-4: 
5. E?s-n


-I no NOT SCALE PRINTS-
I us: 
I DIMENSIONS ONLY
- -ELEVATION ?*me noon PLAN 85 
m: Ia- . r-u- It" 

AS.2

3!

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION CALLING A PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING
APPROVAL OF THE BROWNFIELD PLAN OF THE
CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE ALBERT KAHN BUILDING REDEVELOPMENT

 

The following preamble and resolution were offered by Member
and supported by Member 

 

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, Michigan (the ?City?) is
authorized by the provisions of Act 381, Public Acts of Michigan, 1996 (?Act 381?), to
create a brownfield redevelopment authority; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Act 381, the City Council of the City duly established the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the ?Authority"): and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Authority has
prepared a Brownfield Plan for the Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment (the ?Plan?) and
submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory Committee for review and comment; and

WHEREAS, after receipt of the recommendation of the Community Advisory
Committee to approve the, the Authority has approved the Plan and fonNarded it to City
Council with a request for its approval; and

WHEREAS, prior to approval of the Plan, the City Council is required to hold a
public hearing in connection with consideration of the Plan pursuant to Act 381.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1. The City Council hereby acknowledges receipt of the Plan from the
Authority.

2. A public hearing is hereby called on Thursday, the 14th day of March, 2019
at 9:05 AM, prevailing Eastern Time, in the Council Chambers, 13?? Floor of the Coleman
A. Young Municipal Center in the City to consider adoption by the City Council of a
resolution approving the Plan.

3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the
provisions of this resolution are rescinded.

4. The City Clerk is requested to submit three (3) certified copies of this
resolution to the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226.

AYES: Members

 

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

and wills\arts dbra backup\correspondence\city council public hearing notices\2019 public hearing noticestAlbert Kahn cc reso
setting hearing.docx

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION APPROVING BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE ALBERT KAHN BUILDING REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381?), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (?Authority?) has been established by resolution of
the City Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) for the purpose of promoting the
revitalization of eligible properties in the City; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the Authority is authorized to develop and propose for
adoption by City Council a brownfield plan for one (1) or more parcels of eligible property;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the resolution establishing the Authority and the bylaws
of the Authority, the Authority has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the Albert
Kahn Building Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan?); and

WHEREAS, the Authority submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory
Committee for consideration on February 13, 2019, per the provisions of the resolution
establishing the Authority, and a public hearing was conducted by the Authority on
February 7, 2019 to solicit comments on the proposed Plan; and

WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee recommended approval of the
Plan on February 13, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the Authority approved the Plan on February 13, 2019 and forwarded
it to the City Council with a request for its approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the public hearing on the Plan was given in
accordance with Section 13 of Act 381; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing on the proposed Plan on
February 14, 2019.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. Definitions. Where used in this Resolution the terms set forth below shall
have the following meaning unless the context clearly requires otherwise:

?Eligible Activities? or ?eligible activity? shall have the meaning described in Act
381.

?Eligible Property? means the property designated in the Plan as the Eligible
Property, as described in Act 381.

?Plan? means the Plan prepared by the Authority, as transmitted to the City Council
by the Authority for approval, copies of which Plan are on file in the office of the City Clerk.

?Taxing Jurisdiction? shall mean each unit of government levying an ad valorem
property tax on the Eligible Property.

2. Public Purpose. The City Council hereby determines that the Plan
constitutes a public purpose.

3. Best Interest of the Public. The City Council hereby determines that it is in
the best interests of the public to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed
areas in the City to proceed with the Plan.

 

4. Review Considerations. As required by Act 381, the City Council has in
reviewing the Plan taken into account the following considerations:

Portions of the property designated in the Plan meets the definition
of Eligible Property, as described in Act 381, including consideration of the criteria of
?blighted? as defined in Act 381;

The Plan meets the requirements set forth in section 13 of Act 381.

The proposed method of financing the costs of eligible activities is
feasible and the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.

The costs of eligible activities proposed are reasonable and
necessary to carry out the purposes of Act 381.

The amount of captured taxable value estimated to result from
adoption of the Plan is reasonable.

5. Approval and Adoption of Plan. The Plan as submitted by the Authority is
hereby approved and adopted. A copy of the Plan and all amendments thereto shall be
maintained on file in the City Clerk?s office.

6. Preparation of Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eligible Property.

Within 60 days of the adoption of this Resolution, the City Assessor
shall prepare the initial Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eligible Property in the Plan.
The initial Base Year Assessment Roll shall list each Taxing Jurisdiction levying taxes on
the Eligible Property on the effective date of this Resolution and the amount of tax revenue

-2-

derived by each Taxing Jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the Eligible Property,
excluding millage specifically levied for the payment of principal and interest of obligations
approved by the electors or obligations pledging the unlimited taxing power of the local
governmental unit.

The City Assessor shall transmit copies of the initial Base Year
Assessment Roll to the City Treasurer, County Treasurer, Authority and each Taxing
Jurisdiction which will have Tax Increment Revenues captured by the Authority, together
with a notice that the Base Year Assessment Roll has been prepared in accordance with
this Resolution and the Plan approved by this Resolution.

7. Preparation of Annual Base Year Assessment Roll. Each year within 15
days following the final equalization of the Eligible Property, the City Assessor shall
prepare an updated Base Year Assessment Roll. The updated Base Year Assessment
Roll shall show the information required in the initial Base Year Assessment Roll and, in
addition, the Tax Increment Revenues for each Eligible Property for that year. Copies of
the annual Base Year Assessment Roll shall be transmitted by the Assessor to the same
persons as the initial Base Year Assessment Roll, together with a notice that it has been
prepared in accordance with the Plan.

8. Establishment of Project Fund; Approval of Depositary. The Authority shall
establish a separate fund for the Eligible Property subject to this Plan, which shall be kept
in a depositary bank account or accounts in a bank or banks approved by the Treasurer
of the City. All moneys received by the Authority pursuant to the Plan shall be deposited
in the Project Fund for the Eligible Property. All moneys in the Project Fund and earnings
thereon shall be used only in accordance with the Plan and Act 381.

9. Use of Moneys in the Proiect Fund. The moneys credited to the Project
Fund and on hand therein from time to time shall be used annually to first make those
payments authorized by and in accordance with the Plan and any development
agreement governing such payments and then to the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund,
as authorized by Act 381:

10. Return of Surplus Funds to Taxing Jurisdictions. The Authority shall return
all surplus funds not deposited in the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund proportionately to
the Taxing Jurisdictions.

11. Payment of Tax Increment Revenues to Authority. The municipal and the
county treasurers shall, as ad valorem and specific local taxes are collected on the Eligible
Property, pay the Tax Increment Revenues to the Authority for deposit in the Project Fund.
The payments shall be made not more than 30 days after the Tax Increment Revenues
are collected.

12. Disclaimer. By adoption of this Resolution and approval of the Plan, the
City assumes no obligation or liability to the owner, developer, lessee or lessor of the
Eligible Property for any loss or damage that may result to such persons from the adoption

of this Resolution and Plan. The City makes no guarantees or representations as to the
ability of the Authority to capture tax increment revenues from the State and local school
district taxes for the Plan.

13. Repealer. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict
with the provisions of this resolution be and the same hereby are rescinded.

14. The City Clerk is requested to submit four (4) certified copies of this
Resolution to the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226

AYES: Members

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

And WillsiArts DBRA BackuplCorrespondence\City Council Resolutionsi2019 City Council ResolutionsAlbert Kahn TIF CC resolutiondocx

Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

February 14, 2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Albert Kahn Building Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Dear Honorable Council Members:

The enclosed Brown?eld Plan for the Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan") (Exhibit A),
was submitted by the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority Board (the to the Community
Advisory Committee (the The Plan was considered and reviewed by the CAC at its February 13,
2019 meeting and a public hearing was held by the DBRA on February 7, 2019 to solicit public comments.
The Committee's communication to the City Council and the DBRA, dated February 13, 2019 (Exhibit B),
recommending approval of the Plan, including the minutes of the public hearing held by the DBRA, are
enclosed for the City Council's consideration.

On February 13, 2019, the DBRA adopted a resolution (Exhibit C) approving the Plan and authorizing the
submission of a copy of its resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the Detroit
City Council call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions to approve the Plan in
accordance with Act 381.

The Plan is now presented to the City Council for approval. The Detroit City Council will, after publication
of the notices, hold a public hearing on the Plan. After the public hearing, the City Council shall determine
whether the Plan constitutes a public purpose and, if so, may approve or reject the Plan or approve it with
modifications.

Project introduction
AK Owner LLC is the project developer (the "Developer?) for the Plan which entails the redevelopment of

the Albert Kahn Building to create at least approximately 190 apartments (approximately 156 one-bedroom
units, 21 two-bedroom units and 13 three?bedroom units) and rehabilitate or create up to 64,000 to 108,000
square feet of retail and other commercial space on the main floor and lower level concourse of the building.
At least 20% of the building's residential apartments will be affordable units offering rents considered
affordable to residents with incomes of not more than 80% of the area median income. The overall building
restoration will include improvements to the exterior and interior, including full redesigns of public areas.
One of the parcels will be used for surface parking for residential tenants and may be available for
customers of retail and other commercial tenants.

The total investment is estimated to be $48 million. The Developer is requesting $2,976,700.00 in 
reimbursement.

Honorable City Council
February 14, 2019
2

There will be 300 temporary construction jobs and 6 FTE jobs. The 300 temporary construction jobs are
expected to be created over a 2-year period once construction begins. The 6 FTE jobs may be related to
property management.

Property Subiect to the Plan

The eligible property (the "Property") consists of two (2) parcels located at 7340 Second Avenue and 101
W. Bethune Street in Detroit's New Center area, east of Second Avenue, on the south sides of Bethune
Street.

Basis of Eligibility:

The Property is considered "eligible property" as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because it was previously
utilized for a commercial purpose and/or public purpose; it is located within the City of Detroit, a qualified
local governmental unit under Act 381; it is functionally obsolete as defined by Act 381 and an historic
resource, or, as to certain parcels, are adjacent and contiguous to the functionally obsolete property and
historic resource and the development of the adjacent or contiguous parcels is estimated to increase the
captured taxable value of the remainder of the eligible property.

Eligible Activities and Proiected Costs

The "eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered "eligible activities"
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include demolition, asbestos and lead based paint
assessment and abatement, infrastructure improvements, development and preparation of a brown?eld
plan and work plan, and brownfield plan implementation. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are
intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed solely by the Developer. The
Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt. The eligible activities
are estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be completed within 3 years.

Tax Increment Financing Capture

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.

COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Environmental Assessments $4,300.00
2. Demolition $1,857,400.00
3. Lead and Asbestos Activities $855,000.00
4. infrastructure Improvements $200,000.00
5. Brownfield Plan Act 381 Work Plan $30,000.00
6. Brown?eld Plan implementation $30,000.00
*Total Reimbursement to Developer $2,976,700.00

7. Authority Administrative Costs $860,539.00
8. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund $175,013.00
9. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund $2,774,731.00
TOTAL Estimated Costs $6,786,983.00

 

 

 

 

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.

Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of Commercial
Rehabilitation Act (CRA) and Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (N EZ) Tax Abatements.

Honorable City Council
February 14, 2019
3

DBRA's Reguest
The DBRA is respectfully requesting the following actions from the City Council:

February 191 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D), setting the Albert Kahn Building Brownfield

Redevelopment Plan public hearing, as approved by the Planning and Economic Development
Standing Committee Chair and the City of Detroit Clerk. for March 14, 2019 at 9:05 AM in the
Council Chambers, 13?1 Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, located at 2
Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan.

March 14, 2019. 9:00 AM
Discussion with taxing jurisdictions regarding the fiscal impact of the Plan.

0.) March 14. 2019, 9:05 AM
Public Hearing at City Council's Planning and Economic Development Standing Committee
concerning the Albert Kahn Building Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan.

March 19 2019

City Council adoption of the Resolution approving the Albert Kahn Building Brown?eld
Redevelopment Plan (Exhibit E).

Sincer IR
[29/75 at; 1' 4R



 

   
 

Jennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

0 City Clerk
Marcel Todd
Irvin Corley, Jr.
David Whitaker
Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt
DeAndree Watson
Kevin Johnson
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls
Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington

And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council packet cover letters\2019 Cover Letters\Albert Kahn
Building Brown?eld Plan CC Transmittal Letter.docx

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

BROWNFIELD PLAN FOR THE
ALBERT KAHN BUILDING
REDEVELOPIVIENT PROJECT

Prepared by:

Richard A. Barr, Esq.

Honigman LLP

660 Woodward Avenue, Ste. 2290
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 465?7308

Developer:

AK Owner LLC

Attn: Matthew S. Sosin
300 South Old Woodward

Birmingham, Michigan 48009
Phone: (248) 848?6400

February 4, 2019

298191275

CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BROWNFIELD PLAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION
II. GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Description of Eligible Property
B. Basis of Eligibility
C. Summary of Eligible Activities
D. Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax
Increment Revenues; Impact of Tax Increment

Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions

E. Plan of Financing; Maximum Amount
Of Indebtedness

F. Duration of Plan
G. Effective Date of Inclusion

H. Displacement/Relocation of Individuals
On Eligible Property

1. Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF)

J. Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund

K. Developer?s Obligations, Representations and Warrants
ATTACHMENTS

A. Site Map

PU

Legal Description(s)

Project Description

.0 

Supportive Letters

P1

Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities

298191275

F. TIF Tables
G. Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents
H. Incentive Information Chart

I. Evidence of Historic Resource Status

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

I. INTRODUCTION

 

In order to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed and blighted areas
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit, Michigan (the ?City?), the City has
established the City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (the 
pursuant to Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended (?Act 381?).

The primary purpose of this Brown?eld Plan (?Plan?) is to promote the redevelopment of
and private investment in certain ?brown?eld? properties within the City. Inclusion of
property within this Plan will facilitate ?nancing of environmental response and other
eligible activities at eligible properties, and will also provide tax incentives to eligible
taxpayers willing to invest in revitalization of eligible sites, commonly referred to as
?brown?elds.? By facilitating redevelopment of brown?eld properties, this Plan is
intended to promote economic growth for the bene?t of the residents of the City and all
taxing units located within and bene?ted by the DBRA.

This Plan is intended to apply to the eligible property identi?ed in this Plan and, if tax
increment revenues are proposed to be captured from that eligible property, to identify
and authorize the eligible activities to be funded by such tax increment revenues.

This Plan is intended to be a living document, which may be modi?ed or amended in
accordance with the requirements of Act 381, as necessary to achieve the purposes of
Act 381. The identi?cation or designation of a developer or proposed use for the eligible
property shall not necessitate an amendment of this Plan, affect the application of this
Plan to the eligible property or impair the rights available to the DBRA under this Plan.
The applicable sections of Act 381 are noted throughout the Plan for reference purposes.

This Plan describes the project to be completed (see Attachment C) and contains all the
information required by Section 13(2) of Act 381.

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

II. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 

A. Description of the Eligible Propertv (Section 13 and the Proiect

The property comprising the eligible property consists Of approximately 1.6 acres Of land
within two (2) tax parcels, as well as the adjacent rights of way and easement parcels.
The main tax parcel quali?es as functionally obsolete and as an historic resource, and the
other tax parcel is adjacent and contiguous to the main tax parcel. The property
comprising the eligible property and all tangible personal property located thereon will
comprise the eligible property and is referred to herein as the ?Property.?

Attachment A includes a site map of the Property. The Property is located in the New
Center area, east of Second Avenue, on the north and south sides Of Bethune Street.

The Building has been vacant since August, 2018 and was more than 50% vacant for at
least approximately ten (10) years before then.

The eligible property will include all tangible personal property to be located on the real
property. Parcel information is outlined below.

 

7430 Second Avenue, tax parcel 02-001104?14; and

 

 

Address 101 W. Bethune Street, tax parcel 02-001 124-32
Parcel ID See above
Owner AK Owner LLC

 

LAND SITUATED IN THE COUNTY OF WAYNE, CITY
OF DETROIT, STATE OF MICHIGAN, IS DESCRIBED
AS FOLLOWS:

86, 87, 88 AND 89, EXCEPT THE EAST 20 FEET
OF THE WEST 25 FEET OF SAID LOT 89; LOT 90,
EXCEPT THE EAST 15.57 ALSO LOT 105,

. EXCEPT THE EAST 15.57 ALL OF LOTS 106, 107,
Legal 1365011131101? 108, 109 AND ALL OF VACATED PUBLIC ALLEY (20
FEET WIDE) ADJOINING THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF
LOTS 86, 87, AND 88 AND ADJOINING THE
SOUTHERLY LINE OF THE WEST 5 FEET OF LOTS 89
OF LOTHROP AND SUBDIVISION OF PART
OF 1/4 SECTION 55 AND 56 OF 10,000 ACRE TRACT,
ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED IN
LIBER 17 OF PLATS, PAGE 22 OF WAYNE COUNTY
RECORDS.

 

 

 

 

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

 

EASEMENT PARCEL: TOGETHER WITH A NON-
EXCLUSIVE EASEMENT FOR SKYWALK AS CREATED
LIMITED AND DEFINED IN INSTRUMENTS RECORDED
IN LIBER 22315, PAGE 738 AND LIBER 23105, PAGE
12, WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

 

 

 

AND ALL ADJACENT RIGHTS OF WAY

 

AK Owner LLC or its af?liate(s) (collectively, the ?Developer?) will redevelop the
Albert Kahn Building, 7430 Second Avenue (and adjacent parcel described herein), to
create at least approximately 190 apartments (approximately 156 one-bedroom units, 21
two?bedroom units and 13 three-bedroom units) and rehabilitate or create up to 64,000 to
108,000 square feet of retail and other commercial space. See Attachment C.

It is currently anticipated that the redevelopment of the property will commence in the
first quarter of 2019 and be completed in late 2020 or early 2021. The project description
provided herein is a summary of the proposed development at the Property at the time of
the adoption of the Plan. The actual development may vary from the project description
provided herein, without necessitating an amendment to this Plan, so long as such
variations are not material and arise as a result of changes in market and/or financing
conditions affecting the project and/or are related to the addition or immaterial removal
of amenities to the project. All such changes, as determined by DBRA in its sole
discretion, to the project description are subject to the approval of the DBRA staff and
shall be consistent with the overall nature of the proposed development, its proposed
public purpose, and the purposes of Act 381.

Attachment provides a detailed description of the project to be completed at the
Property (the ?Project?) and Attachment includes letters of support for the Project.

B. Basis of Eligibility (Section ISQHII) and Section 20111

The Property is considered ?eligible property? as de?ned by Act 381, Section 2, because
it was previously utilized for a commercial purpose and/or public purpose; it is
located within the City of Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381;
it is functionally obsolete as defined by Act 381 and an historic resource, or, as to
certain parcels, are adjacent and contiguous to the functionally obsolete property and
historic resource and the development of the adjacent or contiguous parcel is estimated to
increase the captured taxable value of the remainder of the eligible property.

The requisite affidavit signed by a level 3 or level 4 Assessor certifying the Assessor?s
expert opinion that the Property is functionally obsolete shall be provided by Developer
to the DBRA prior to the approval of this Plan by the DBRA and the governing body.
Further description of its eligibility is outlined below.

0 The current con?gurations do not meet market demand for the original
commercial of?ce and retail purposes of the building, nor does it meet market
demand for its future residential use.

- Mechanical and electrical systems must be replaced.

3
298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

0 The elevators must be updated or replaced.

- Life safety systems (smoke detectors, ?re alarm systems, exit signs and ?re
sprinklers) must be updated or replaced.

a The windows must be rehabilitated.

- Asbestos containing materials must be removed or encapsulated.

0 The entire roof must be replaced.

It is noted that, prior to its creation of a commercial redevelopment district for the
Property in 2018, the City Council of the City of Detroit concluded, upon
recommendation from the City Assessor, that the Property is functionally obsolete.

C. Summaw oi?Eligible Activities and Description of Costs (Section (M)
The ?eligible activities? that are anticipated to be carried out at the Property for the
Project are considered ?eligible activities? as de?ned by Section 2(0) of Act 381, because
they include demolition, asbestos and lead based paint assessment and abatement,
infrastructure improvements, development and preparation of a brown?eld plan and work
plan, and brown?eld plan implementation.

A summary of the eligible activities and the estimated cost of each eligible activity
intended to be paid for with tax increment revenues (as de?ned by Section 2(ss) of
Act 381) from the Property are shown in the table attached hereto as Attachment E.

The eligible activities described in Attachment are not exhaustive. Subject to the
approval of DBRA staff in writing, additional eligible activities may be carried out at the
Property, without requiring an amendment to this Plan, so long as such eligible activities
are permitted by Act 381 and the cost of such eligible activities does not exceed the total
costs stated in Attachment E.

Unless otherwise agreed to by the DBRA, all eligible activities will commence within
eighteen (18) months after the date the governing body approves this Plan. All eligible
activities will be completed within three (3) years after approval of the Michigan
Strategic Fund work plan, if applicable, or three years after execution of the
Reimbursement Agreement (as that term is de?ned below). Any long-term monitoring or
operation and maintenance activities or obligations that may be required will be
performed in compliance with the terms of this Plan and any documents prepared
pursuant to this Plan.

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities incurred by it
as described below. Some eligible activities may commence prior to the adoption of this
Plan and to the extent permitted by Act 381 shall be reimbursable pursuant to the
Reimbursement Agreement. Tax increment revenue generated by the Property will be
captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible activities completed
on the Property pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement Agreement to be executed by
the DBRA and the Developer after approval of this Plan (the ?Reimbursement
Agreement?), to the extent permitted by Act 381. In the event this Plan contemplates the
capture of tax increment revenue derived from ?taxes levied for school operating
purposes? (as de?ned by Section 2(uu) of Act 381 and hereinafter referred to as ?School

4
293191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Taxes?), the Developer acknowledges and agrees that obligation to reimburse
the Developer for the cost of eligible activities with tax increment revenue derived from
Local Taxes, or Speci?c Taxes that are considered Local Taxes (as these capitalized
terms are de?ned by Act 381) is contingent upon: the Developer receiving at least the
initial applicable work plan approvals by the Michigan Strategic Fund and the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality, as may be required pursuant to Act 381, within
180 days after the date this Plan is approved by the governing body, or such other date as
the DBRA may agree to in writing; or (ii) the Developer providing the DBRA with
evidence, satisfactory to DBRA, that the Developer has the ?nancial means to complete
the project without the capture of, and subsequent reimbursement with, the contemplated
School Taxes.

The costs listed in Attachment are estimated costs and may increase or decrease
depending upon the nature and extent of environmental contamination and other
unknown conditions encountered on the Property. The actual cost of those eligible
activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from tax
increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement. No costs of eligible activities will be quali?ed for
reimbursement except to the extent permitted in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the Reimbursement Agreement and Act 381. The Reimbursement Agreement and this
Plan will dictate the total cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement,
provided that the total cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement
under the Reimbursement Agreement shall not exceed the estimated costs set forth in
Attachment E. As long as the total costs are not exceeded, line item costs of eligible
activities may be adjusted after the date this Plan is approved by the governing body, to
the extent the adjustments do not violate the terms of the approved MDEQ or MSF work
plan.

D. Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax Increment Revenues
(Section Beginning Date of Capture of Tax Increment Revenues
(Section Impact of Tax Increment Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions
[Section 1312118?

This Plan anticipates the capture of tax increment revenues to reimburse the Developer
for the costs of eligible activities under this Plan in accordance with the Reimbursement
Agreement. Subject to Section 13(b)(l6) of Act 381, a table of estimated tax increment
revenues to be captured is attached to this Plan as Attachment F.

Tax increments are projected to be captured and applied to reimbursement of eligible
activity costs and payment of DBRA administrative and operating expenses, (ii) make
deposits into the State Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund, and make deposits into the
Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund, as follows:

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

 

 

 

 

Local
Reimbursement of DBRA Admin State Revol. Brownfield

School Capture Totals costs Costs Fund Revolving Fund
State Education Tax (as capped in 2034) 350,027 129,110 - 175,013 1,075
School Operating Tax (as capped in 2034) 5 1.050.030 1,091,684 5 - 5 - 3.225
School Total 5 1,400,107 1,220,794 - '3 175,013 5 4,300
Local Capture

City Operating 5 2,559,405 5 834,264 5 408,858 5 - 5 1,316,283
Library 5 594,018 5 193,626 94,893 5 - 5 305,499
Wayne County Operating 1,003,392 327,065 160,289 - 5 16,037
Huron Clinton Metropolitan Authority 29,365 9,572 4,691 - 15,102
Wayne County ISD 477,832 5 155,754 5 76,332 5 - 245,745
Wayne County ENH 275,861 5 89,919 5 44,068 5 - 5 141,873
Wayne County Community College 5 447,004 145,706 71.408 5 - 229,891
Local Total 5 5,386,876 5 1,755,906 860,539 5 - 5 2,770,431
Total Captured School and Local Taxes 6,786,984 2,976,700 860,539 175,013 2,774,731

In addition, the following taxes are projected to be generated but shall not be captured
during the life of this Plan:

Non-Capturable Millages

City Debt 965,512
School Debt 1,793,093
Wayne County DIA 27,586
Wayne County 200 13,793
Total Non-Capturable Taxes 2,799,984

In no event shall the duration of this Plan exceed thirty-?ve years following the date of
the governing body?s resolution approving this Plan, nor shall the duration of the tax
capture exceed the lesser of the period authorized under subsection (5) of Section 13 of
Act 381 or 30 years. Further, in no event shall the beginning date of the capture of tax
increment revenues be later than ?ve years after the date of the governing body?s
resolution approving this Plan. The beginning date of the capture of tax increment
revenues shall be the 2019 tax year (commencing with the Summer 2019 property taxes).

E. Plan of Financing [Section 13(2jldli; Maximum Amount of Indebtedness


The eligible activities are to be ?nanced solely by the Developer. The DBRA will
reimburse the Developer for the cost of approved eligible activities, but only from tax
increment revenues generated from the Property. No advances have been or shall be
made by the City or the DBRA for the costs of eligible activities under this Plan.

All reimbursements authorized under this Plan shall be governed by the Reimbursement
Agreement. The inclusion of eligible activities and estimates of costs to be reimbursed in
this Plan are intended to authorize the DBRA to fund such reimbursements and does not
obligate the DBRA or the City to fund any reimbursement or to enter into the

6
298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Reimbursement Agreement providing for the reimbursement of any costs for which tax
increment revenues may be captured under this Plan, or which are permitted to be
reimbursed under this Plan. The amount and source of any tax increment revenues that
will be used for purposes authorized by this Plan, and the terms and conditions for such
use and upon any reimbursement of the expenses permitted by this Plan, will be provided
solely under the Reimbursement Agreement contemplated by this Plan.

Unless otherwise agreed upon by the Developer, the DBRA, and the State of Michigan,
the DBRA shall not incur any note or bonded indebtedness to ?nance the purposes of this
Plan.

Reimbursements under the Reimbursement Agreement shall not exceed the cost of
eligible activities permitted under this Plan.

F. Duration of Plan (Section 

Subject to Section l3b(16) of Act 381, the beginning date of capture of tax increment
revenues for each eligible property shall occur in accordance with the Tax Increment
Financing (TIF) table described in Exhibit F. In no event, however, shall this Plan extend
beyond the maximum term allowed by Section 13(2)(f) of Act 381 for the duration of this
Plan.

Furthermore, this Plan, or any subsequent amendment thereto, may be abolished or
terminated in accordance with Section 14(8) of Act 381 in the event of any of the
following:

a. The governing body may abolish this Plan (or any subsequent amendment
thereto) when it ?nds that the purposes for which this Plan was established have been
accomplished.

b. The governing body may terminate this Plan (or any subsequent amendment
thereto) if the project for which eligible activities were identi?ed in this Plan (or any
subsequent amendment thereto) fails to occur with respect to the eligible property for at
least two (2) years following the date of the governing body resolution approving this
Plan (or any subsequent amendment thereto), provided that the governing body ?rst does
both of the following: gives 30 days? written notice to the Developer at its last known
address by certi?ed mail or other method that documents proof of delivery attempted;
and (ii) provides the Developer with an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting.

Notwithstanding anything in this subsection to the contrary, this Plan (or any subsequent
amendment thereto) shall not be abolished or terminated until the principal and interest
on bonds, if any, issued under Section 17 of Act 381 and all other obligations to which
the tax increment revenues are pledged have been paid or funds suf?cient to make the
payment have been identi?ed or segregated.

G. Effective Date of Inclusion in Brown?eld Plan
The Property will become a part of this Plan on the date this Plan is approved by the
governing body.

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

H. Displacementz?Relocation of Individuals on Eligible Proper? (Section 
There are no persons or businesses residing on the eligible property and no occupied
residences will be acquired or cleared, therefore there will be no displacement or
relocation of persons or businesses under this Plan.

1. Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (Section Section 13(2Hn1n

The DBRA has established a Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF). The LBRF will
consist of all tax increment revenues authorized to be captured and deposited in the
LBRF, as speci?ed in Section 13(5) of Act 381, under this Plan and any other plan of the
DBRA. It may also include funds appropriated or otherwise made available from public
or private sources.

The amount of tax increment revenue authorized for capture and deposit in the LBRF is
estimated at $2,774,731. All funds, if any, deposited in the LBRF shall be used in
accordance with Section 8 of Act 381.

.J. Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund (Section 83; Section 

The DBRA shall pay to the Department of Treasury at least once annually an amount
equal to 50% of the taxes levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331,
MCL 211.901 to 211.906, that are captured under this Plan for up to the ?rst twenty-?ve
(25) years of the duration of capture of tax increment revenues for each eligible property
included in this Plan. If the DBRA pays an amount equal to 50% of the taxes levied
under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to 211.906, on a parcel of
eligible property to the Department of Treasury under Section 13b(14) of Act 381, the
percentage of local taxes levied on that parcel and used to reimburse eligible activities for
the Project under this Plan shall not exceed the percentage of local taxes levied on that
parcel that would have been used to reimburse eligible activities for the Project under this
Plan if 50% of the taxes levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901
to 211.906, on that parcel were not paid to the Department of Treasury under Section
13b(14) ofAct 381.

K. Developer?s Obligations, Representations and Warrants

The Developer and its af?liates shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances,
executive orders, or other regulations imposed by the City or any other properly
constituted governmental authority with respect to the Property and shall use the Property
in accordance with this Plan.

The Developer, at its sole cost and expense, shall be solely responsible for and shall fully
comply with all applicable federal, state, and local relocation requirements in
implementing this Plan.

The Developer represents and warrants that a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
and if appropriate, 21 Phase II ESA, baseline environmental assessment, and due
care plan, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan?s Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act (MCL 324.20101 et seq), have been performed on the Property
(?Environmental Documents?). Attached hereto as Attachment is the City of Detroit?s

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Department of Buildings, Safety, Engineering and Environmental acknowledgement of
its receipt of the Phase I BSA, and if appropriate, the Phase II BSA.

The Developer further represents and warrants that the Project does not and will not
include a City of Detroit Land Bank Authority, Wayne County Land Bank Authority or
State of Michigan Land Bank ?nancing component.

The Developer has applied or will apply for property tax abatements under the
Commercial Redevelopment Act and the Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Act. If
approved, the abatements will reduce the property tax obligations of the Property for the
periods applicable under the abatement certi?cates, thereby reducing the amount of tax
increment revenues available pursuant to this Plan.

Except as otherwise agreed to by the DBRA, any breach of a representation or warranty

contained in this Plan shall render the Plan invalid, subject to the Developer?s reasonable
opportunity to cure as described in the Reimbursement Agreement.

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENTS

10
298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT A

Site Map

 

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 
Legal Description of Eligible Property to which the Plan Applies

Land situated in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne and State of Michigan, more
particularly described as follows:

86, 87, 88 AND 89, EXCEPT THE EAST 20 FEET OF THE WEST 25 FEET OF
SAID LOT 89; LOT 90, EXCEPT THE EAST 15.57 ALSO LOT 105, EXCEPT THE
EAST 15.57 ALL OF LOTS 106, 107, 108, 109 AND ALL OF VACATED PUBLIC
ALLEY (20 FEET WIDE) ADJOINING THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF LOTS 86, 87, AND 88
AND ADJOINING THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF THE WEST 5 FEET OF LOTS 89 OF
LOTHROP AND SUBDIVISION OF PART OF 1/4 SECTION 55 AND 56 OF
10,000 ACRE TRACT, ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED IN LIBER 17
OF PLATS, PAGE 22 OF WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

EASEMENT PARCEL: TOGETHER WITH A NON-EXCLUSIVE EASEMENT FOR
SKYWALK AS CREATED LIMITED AND DEFINED IN INSTRUMENTS RECORDED IN
LIBER 22315, PAGE 738 AND LIBER 23105, PAGE 12, WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

Also described as:

7430 Second Avenue, tax parcel 02-001 104-14; and
101 W. Bethune Street, tax parcel 02-001124-32

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 
Project Description

AK Owner LLC and its af?liate(s) (collectively, the ??Developer?) intend to redevelop the
Albert Kahn Building (?Building?) at 7430 Second Avenue and adjacent parking areas. The
Building was constructed in approximately 1931. Since its initial construction, and until
recently, it was used as an of?ce building with ground floor commercial tenants. The Building
has been vacant since August, 2018 and was more than 50% vacant for at least approximately
ten (10) years before then. The Building contains approximately 322,213 square feet of space
within its 11 ?oors and lower (concourse) level. There is also an adjacent surface parking lot
and a parking lot across Bethune Street that are included in the project. The Building was
listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.

The Building suffers from widespread obsolescence. Although it maintains its historic
character, it requires modern HVAC, electrical systems, plumbing and communications to
operate ef?ciently as an apartment building with ground ?oor commercial/retail businesses. A
wide variety of restoration activities are included in the project budget, as described below, to
restore the Building to an economically ef?cient condition.

The project includes the rehabilitation of approximately 64,000 to 108,000 square feet of retail
and other commercial space on the main ?oor and the lower level (concourse) of the Building.
A PA 255 tax abatement was approved in November 2018 for the rehabilitation of the main
?oor and lower level (concourse). A second PA 255 tax abatement application has been
submitted for the potential use of some or all of the 2nd ?oor for commercial use but the
Developer has requested that be considered by the City Council only if, upon the outcome of
certain inquiries. it is determined that the 2lld lloor will be rehabilitated for commercial uses
instead of or in addition to for additional apartments.

The balance of the Building will be rehabilitated to create approximately 190 rental
apartments (approximately 156 one-bedroom units, 21 two-bedroom units and 13 three-
bedroom units) and approximately 64,000 to 108,000 of retail and other commercial space
(see above discussion regarding the 2nd ?oor). The Developer has ?led a request for the
establishment of a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone and intends to request the issuance of one
or more Neighborhood Enterprise Zone certi?cates for the residential component of the
project (which may include some of the 2nd floor, as described above).

The overall Building restoration will include improvements to the Building's exterior and
interior, including full redesigns of public areas. The Building?s exterior will bene?t from
limited work consistent with its historic character. See the attached schematic drawings for the
overall Building restoration. As project plans are subject to revision, the actual dimensions
and capacities may vary from this description.

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

The project will include multiple energy ef?cient and other ?green building? components,
including replacement of all building mechanicals including new state of the art in unit HVAC
systems and programmable thermostats that allow for reduced energy consumption, use of no-
or low-VOC paint, all new LED lighting, replacement of the roofs and addition of additional
insulation and Energy Star appliances.

The project, estimated to cost over $48,000,000, will enhance the neighborhood and bring
hundreds of new residents to and continue the recent enhancement of the New Center
neighborhood.

The Project is anticipated to create at least approximately 300 construction jobs during a
24 month construction period and an estimated 6 permanent full-time equivalent jobs related
to property management. An unknown number of jobs are expected to be created by one or
more businesses that will be located in the retail and other commercial portions of the project.

Preliminary eligible activities engineering, planning, etc.) started in 2018. Construction

is expected to start in February, 2019, be substantially completed by December, 2020 and be
completed by early 2021.

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Tentative Building Depictions (subject to change)

 

It l' Ii .Il.


VA




 

 

CORRIDOR

 

298 [9127.5

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

  

.-
?p





  
 



"Hallway?;


I

ll
mm 


.7.-

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

  



- .
. 
?fr/i
I 
A ?n t'

 

 

 

Bran An Deco Iccenu melded ll?u VQIVOB [0 came an reudence lobby.
Bold ChindOIlm lure nude

ART DECO FUSION

.. .:
N: ?72- 

2'

   
     

MAILROOM AND RESIDENT LOBBY

The ?11ml hub where the residenu gather to localize
Leasing o?lc: located nearby lot (omen-once

 

THIRD FLOOR - COMMUNITY ROOM ..

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Supportive Letters

(to be attached)

298191275

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WDODWARD AVENUE SUITE 308
DErRmr, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224.1339 - 

CITY or Demon (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

.lamuur) 2-l. 201?)

Ms. Jennifer 

Authorized Agent

Detroit Broonlicld Redewlopment Authorit}
500 Ciriso old. Suite 2200

Detroit, .Vlichiguu 48226

RE: Albert Kuhn Building Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan
Dear Ms. Kamdos.

lhe Detroit Bronntield Redexelopment (DISRA) huts naked [hot the Planning. und
Dexelopment Department to rcxiew and comment on the Alhert Kuhn Building 
Redetelopment Plan (the 

Ouuer LLC ix the project de\elopcr ("Heteloper"). 'l he propclt) in the I?lun is located on six
parcels located in Detroit'q New Ceutct :Ireu. cost of S'ecoud Avenue. on the north and south aides
ot'llethune Street.

the Plan ?ill consist ol'the redexelopment ot' the Albert Hahn Building to create Ilpproxiunuel}
2  upunments :Ind rehuhilittue or create up to 64.000 to  tltl.t)l)t) square l?eet ot'reluil and other
commercial \puce on the main ?oor :md loner level cuocoIIr-te olithe huilding. the otcrull building
ill include to the exteriornnd interior. including full redesigns ot'puhlic
aren?t. l-?ite ol' the puree]: will he used for surface pulling. for residential tenants and mu} he
in :Iiluble for customers ol'retuil and other commercial tenants.

he I'lam is in close proximit}r to Midtoun the North l-?ud neighhorhood. lotnl is
c?alimuted nt 548 million.

The Ieticu for this plan is complete and all comments hate heen lin?mu?ded to the
dexeloper. No udxerw comments uere received. lhe l?lunuing und Dexelopmeut Depurtmenl

recommends. approval ol'the hrou ulicld p .m us submitted.



 
 
 

 

     

Muuri D. Cox
Director. Planning; and 

1

L. It. Voshurg

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - 

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400

OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR 

  
  

February 7, 2019

Ms. Jennifer Kanalos

Authorized Agent

City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street, 22"" Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: 7430 Second Avenue, Detroit, Michigan Albert Kahn Building
Dear Ms. Kanalos:

The Of?ce of the Assessor has reviewed the proposed project for the property located at 7430 Second Avenue,
Detroit, Michigan (the ?Property?) in anticipation of the Property being included in a future brown?eld plan.

The Brown?eld Redevelopment Financing Act (?Act 381?), as amended, requires that a level or IV assessor
make a ?nding that the Property is ?functionally obsolete?, as de?ned by Act 381, as amended, and provide the
underlying basis for that opinion.

Section 2(u) of Act 381, as amended, de?nes ?functionally obsolete? as property that is ?unable to be used to
adequately perform the function for which it was intended due to a substantial loss in value resulting from factors
such as overcapacity, changes in technology, de?ciencies or super adequacies in design, or other similar factors that
affect the property itself or the property?s relationship with other surrounding property.? MCL 

The Assessors Manual de?nes functional obsolescence as ?a loss in value occurring in a structure caused by changes
in design, overcapacity, or inadequacy.? Michigan Assessors Manual, Vol. I Glossary, p. 239.

The Of?ce of the Assessor has reviewed the Property and has found that it ?ts within the de?nition of functional
obsolescence. The current con?gurations do not meet market demand for the original commercial of?ce and retail
purposes of the building, nor does it meet market demand for its future residential use. The mechanical and electrical
systems and the elevators must be replaced. The life safety systems must be updated or replaced. The windows must
be rehabilitated and the entire roof must be replaced and asbestos containing materials must be removed or
encapsulated.

The Of?ce of the Assessor ?nds the Pmperty to be functionally obsolete within the de?nition of the Assessors
Manual and the Brown?eld Redevelopment Financing Act.

Since e! I,

Charles Ericson, MMAO (4)
Board of Assessors

Page 1 7340 Second Avenue

Ms. Jennifer Knualos
7. 2019

 

Page I 2 7340 Second Avenue

Ms. Jennifer Kaualos
February 7. 2019

 

Page [3 7340 Second Avenue

Ms. Jennifer Kannlos
February 1.2019

Page 4 7340 Second Avenue

?aw/1
mm 
- f'

lug; 

3?

I

 

Ms. Jennifer Kanalon
February 7. 2019

 

Page 5 7340 Second Avenue

Ms. Jennifer Knmlos
February 7. 2019

 

Page I 6 7340 Second Avenue

Ms. Jennifer Kanalos
February 7, 2019

 

Page 7 7340 Second Avenue

Ms. Jennifer Kannlos
February 7. 2019

 

Page I 8 7340 Second Avenue

 

January 8, 2019

Sarah Pavelko

Director of Real Estate

Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Albert Kahn Redevelopment
Dear Ms. Pavelko,

On behalf of Midtown Detroit, Inc. (MDI), I would like to express our support for the proposed
mixed?use development of the historic Albert Kahn Building.

This project will rehabilitate 70,000 square feet of commercial space and add 190 new residential
apartments. At least 20% of the residential units will be designated as affordable housing to
households earning less than 80% of the area median income. The addition of new units will
provide more housing options to an area facing 98% occupancy, while the rehabilitated
commercial space will provide new economic opportunities for Detroiters.

MDI understands that the developer is pursuing the establishment of a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone, Brownfield Tax Increment Reimbursements, and Historic Tax Credits as part of the overall
financing structure for the project. These tax credits will provide a valuable financial benefit to
support the completion of the project, which will be a much-needed benefit to the surrounding
neighborhood.

The overall reactivation of this site will build upon revitalization efforts taking place in the New
Center neighborhood and will continue to push the City of Detroit forward. it is for this reason
that MDI is pleased to offer its full support for this project. Should you have any questions, please
feel free to contact me at 313.420.6000.

Sincerely,

942.7. 

Susan T. Mosey
Executive Director

MIDTOWN DETROIT, INC. 3939 Woodward, Suite 100 Midtown Co-Lab
Detroit Ml i 48201 I P: 313.420.6000 F: 313.420. 6200

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 
Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities Tables

The estimated total cost of eligible activities is $2,976,700. For informational purposes, the
eligible activities are presented below based upon their expected characterization as
?Department Speci?c Activities? or Activities?, provided that the activities will be
considered eligible activities regardless of if and how they are included in a work plan
subsequently approved by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality or Michigan
Strategic Fund.

Eligible Activities Expected To Be Considered Department Specific Activities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Category Completion
Description Totals Season/Year
Phase I $4,300 2018
Total $4,300
E?gible Activities Expected To Be Considered MSF Activities
Category Completion
Description C?5t5 Totals Season/Year
Asbestos Assessment and Abatement (including Summer,
related architectural fees) $855,000 $855,000 2019
Demolition (interior; including related architectural Summer,
fees and property condition assessment) $1,857,400 $1,857,400 2019
Public Infrastructure Improvements $200,000 >$200,000 2020
Subtotal $2,912,400
Brownfield Plan Work Plan Preparation $30,000
Brownfield Plan Implementation $30,000
Total $2,972,400

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 
TIF Tables

(see attached)

298191275

 OLIDLMZ

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I ?run I urn-1 I Sui-I I I man I Inlh?I I Inn-n I I unn- I unu- I Ian? I l-I'I'I-?m?nvnun-u I I an can I rub?n I u-?unvu I ur?uu?u?I
?1 5 ?In 5 film 5 I 5 5 "(armurnIlruin "Iturn mu 1 mm 5 artluv? I ?m I hl'l?'l'uv InnI Ian-n Innv II-nn sum-I IunI sum Im Im Inn Inn Sm$1.1m Inn-I II-nn I-nm Cur-I IunI Inn: Inn: Inna Inn qu InnIanan." I m1 I runifhill nun-r I nun: I sun I ?Inn I ?anv Inhum-?H

uni-1mm:
I uI-v. In: I I .qu: I In-u- I "In. I mm 1 run-L I m'llr 1 mu I I--. :l I rm.- I Inn: 1 I'll: I u-u 
n-I? I nu'u I I-u- In-: A I. mu 1 I..- mu- upland?I
I-nIa Innmu.- manual?lulu
llalum-Vanna-?an
useIna-u-
anu I um I "I'Imll I arm I I mm I Inn: I run: I I I min I InnI-nn I Ian-I I nan I .111mn- I-II?Imu If." m' u? I- I Iniu mutual-mam
IIu- I-u 5111 5M1 In5."llll!"
nnu IIrr- Inm Inna Inn-v I-?u InsInfInnallInn Inn Inn?I Inn Inn Inn Inn Inn Sud\flt sun .11 Inn Inn Inn Inn'- Inn Iln't sun sun II-1 SlIllin: {ll {lull {SlIMII
InInu-u-It-I-II?numimu?'ln'?


I??nun-In I ?nan I .un I I I Ian" I ?Inurnr I Inpun-nun
In'n I I I luvI551 InIrv[I'"ml
I-Inn I-m IIEI Inn sur- I 
I..- . ?1uI ?-u1 . a I ?m??-fl
I'm-15mm s-nnIu-msmulswurIn-wInrw-Im In Im I-II I-I sun In Inn I-?l I I-un
5.1? sll? Sun: ?m S-l'l $.11 5m Sm ?m Cm 1D-v bl??I ml
lur- Ilw- 5millrl n? Gar-Inf! Inn: Hm: it? I
f? 5'11 ?I-??lr?l ?ls-Iu sum I-nv Inn:Unv lmum.
In. IHII 5 I I61 . I'l'lI I 4 ll! 5 I Il'l I I In! 
arm I I-rIu Imlm?mlFMImlmimImll-Il-? lam I ?x
?n?I?c w: 5 F1 111[um?nun?n?I
I-mumm-I?m?n
nun-Inn
Inrun.

 

Wei 6936 

 

L401.

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



m'uu?: I :m'm ozone 53mm: 5
m?ou'z i :m'm ozone ZIEZES ?6'93 5 nt?soz 1
out I ootnot?. mu ?are: ?"2161 Tam Tim? 5111-5? F7717 5 inIMWIIHPH1
Su- Sum ?5551 last?: 3.0391? Ln?n? $121! slno'r slm?r s-mr sits? 5161', WWIWM
in: i an 13:? slals?yzs'z lltuc': I 5 Earsu'z 5'59I?zm'z than: ?95253: 5 zas'unz ?.5206: Sguo'zss?z Slm'sls?z 
1- 1- as: his? 1mm 5.95?! swm's -: 5 am It!? mm: new 3 Int 5.5? - amquWn-g
ass? I Eimr ?In sum Illa? 541'war may LIE5:511:1? m-Lut mm? "Fun" :mr-n- mum-v :rtrm 1- ?mm:
m: I ?ma arm 's ?nu arm nan I-zrt-sl 4.31 to__r ?1.1.1 EFL 1: urn-I 1.11: mm _Ewgw?
Down I .rn?'ut unn- 1 2th Lnr'u noun a :ma iI'I'n'o-.m5?a nun 1 my: 1?1.wa mm: run: li-nr'? gun: =m Ili?h' flit-f Jl-Ir'lf 'nnr Lark-ll? 5%
IE :75 arm man! 1 cum in 
5.1an
man-I
mm gm 9 an: m- s?wnu I um: I gun: In: I gun: nu; Ianunzs'v new 5 mm 5 nuts 5 name 5 turns 5 am 5 uzrnv 5 mn I an'rn 5 5 rats: ?3 512?s: I (51?s: reu'sr yarn is 295auawwnq-ulrulqamvuum
f. noon-Jr 3 mount 5 noo?oaI mono! m?ml mum: mo'oo?r 5991s tom an: an ash zst?r 'i ru'r Isa'v 019'! i i 2 Its" .- Ess?r 
9mm: ?5 mm: I atom. I rum I 21:31:. I: mm am'zas I cums I I I su'sm I on'oz I Lm'uz I Lss?sl m'al I I 959m '5 I ocs'el I 051's; 1? I 
m?szzIn'o? I 5 sw?zl I I ns'u srz?n?: 1 i 3 Lara! :5on 5 I [36?s I 1 bll'i I Ms 5 lm?l Haul-lids
I I 1 [9117. 1 Ull??v 1 297"! I 559! 1 ?i Oti?l I it"! 5 I 
tot'nov062'le I zto'ass I res'oa: 'l les'vs 'l su?zs I szn'La 155??. I I Lss'u I ess?u sm'LL sev'u i lsc'u I i ssz'll I lgnon 002'! 5 mow
pun; uwonaa mauuanaleaa-l 11mm

Host! 5 [Mind winl?ilupay HHIWNE was ?Miami. "ran 5 tum-r urn Inn
szs'cm 533:] amauslugmp?? malpouwnsg I 5 ms: was
ws?L'B mm 33 paaemnsa lulu an; mu, 
IMO-M mil?PS 


 

 

 

 

 




 

suoguakud maul-IMO?!

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents

(to be attached)

298191275

INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART: Albert Kahn Building Rehabilitation

ATTACHMENT 

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District
Mixed use building NEZ and PA 255 $48,506,254 5
rehabilitation

Jobs Available
Construction Post Construction
Non- Non?
Non- Skilled Skilled Non- Skilled Skilled
Professional Professional Labor Labor Professional Professional Labor Labor
40-50 50-60 50-60 140-160 1 3 1 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

Subcontractor selection for the Project (as de?ned in this Plan) shall include a
prequali?cation assessment prior to bidding. As part of the prequali?cation process,
evaluation of geographic location of the business and their associated staff assigned to
the Project will occur along with capacity assessment, relevant work experience,
?nancial standing, and insurance and performance quali?cations. It is the team?s goal
to provide local subcontracts that are quali?ed with the opportunity to participate
within the Project based on a quali?ed and competitive process.

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e:
job type, job quali?cations, etc.

Construction related jobs shall include, but not limited to; skilled trades such as
carpentry, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, ?nish work (painting, ?ooring and
millwork), building facade and enclosure work. These jobs shall be provided via
subcontractors selected to the project team. In addition to subcontract related
positions, general labor positions will be available as well. Quali?cations are subject
to the individual business hiring requirements. A contact name and information shall
be provided for inquiries.

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?
The Project will bring approximately one hundred ninety (190) new residential
apartment units to the City. Given the current demand in the market and the statistical

data available, we are of the opinion that approximately 75% of the units will be
occupied by residents relocating from outside of the City to the City of Detroit.

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or
any potential jobs?

The Developer has assembled a team which has a depth of experience successfully developing
real estate projects in the City of Detroit. In addition, we have cultivated relationships with
Sue Mosey at Midtown Detroit, Southwest Solutions, District 5 Representatives and other
community groups. We will call on those relationships to provide introductions to various
stakeholders to discuss how the Project can best bene?t our neighborhood and the City as a
whole. We are in the process of setting up those meetings and look forward to active
engagement from the community groups. Associated topics shall include, community
sensitivities, project overviews and goals, employment opportunities for construction and post
construction jobs. The timing of these meetings is critical to the development to enable early
community feedback, which in turn will provide ef?cient opportunities to incorporate this
feedback into the design.

5. When is construction slated to begin?
1st quarter of 2019.
6. What is the expected completion date of construction?

quarter of 2021.

298191275

Albert Kahn Building Redevelopment
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT I

Evidence of Historic Resource Status

RECEIVED

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR OMB Approved
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE AUG 2 8 2017 

 

PRESERVATION CERTIFICATION APPLICATION Rev 20"
PART 1 EVALUATION OF SIGNIFICANCE ?i/l'l'ibtq

??379257 

lnetructlona: Thla page muet beer the angina-l signature and oval be dated. The Nettend Pant Service certlilutton derision ta based on the In thle
epp?atlim Icn'rt In the eventof any dlecrepency between the eradication term and other. aupdernenlery material submitted Mll't lt (our-h ard?tltectural Diana. dI-awlnga and
medic-MI. I?ll Imitation term tattle precedence it new o1 lhtI term will be provided to the internal Revenue Service

 

1_ Property Name Albert: Kahn Building (formerly the New Center Building) 
Street Second Manor:
my Detroit County Wayne Ema MI 43202?2798
NnmaoIHInInmoiwu-Wl (ML) 
IE NetionalRqueterdlalrid certi?edelateorloml diettict 

2. Nature of requeet (check oniy one bait)

  

utilization that the contributee to the elani?anco ol? the above-named hleterlo dietrict or National Register property lor rehabillallnn purpoeu
certi?cation that the building contributee lo the elpnii'lcence ol' the above-named hletorlc diatrict for a charitable newton - - - .. 
certification that the building doee not contribute to the of the above~named 

 

preliminary for individud tinting In the National Rental-r
determination that a building toasted within a potential hletorle dlatnCt contribulee to the Ilqnl?eanoe of Ihocaut DET I 
dotennlnatlon that bqulng oulelde the celled oreree oi? algnt?unce contributed to the elanl?clnce oi the rel-til?:

3. Project Contact lrorn eppltunt) NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
TAX INCENTIVE PROGRAM



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name Myles Hamby Company The Rattan
Street 3011. Grand Blvd. Suite 2300 Gilli Detroit 5m. MI
Zip 48202-3030 Telephone [313) 446?8789 

4. Applicant

thereby atteel that the intonation I have provided II. to the of my knowledge. correct I further etteetihal [check one or both batten a1 simulate] lam the
owner of the acme-described property within the meaning oi'iewnei? eel forth In 38 6? 262011). endlor(2  ll 1 am not the lee drn?n om oi the above-
delenbed property. the lee Ilmple ownarla aware oi the cotton I em lelung relative to thin application and hea noobledion el noted In a written ateternent from the
owner. a copy at which eitherle attached to this apptlatlon form and incorporated herein. or tree been previously eubmitted, and (ii) meet: the requirement: of 36
5 013(c)(1) (201 I J. For ourpoaee of title elteetatlen. the elnguler ehell Include the plural wherever appropriate underetand that knowing and iIeIllcemn oi
iactual In thla application may eubpet mete linen end under ta S.C 1001. which. under certain clrcumetencee, orevldee for

Impneonment or up to 5 year:
mm. Dietrich Knoer Slum pal. f} 

 

 

 

Appn?ngEnmy Kahn LL12 dinner] 35? 0,.le 47-4346471
Street 3011 Grand Blvd; Suite 2300 (my Detroit 3m, MI
an 43202-3030 rh l313) 445*5775 Emma,? dknoer?theplatfommity

 

 

 

NFE Ottlelal Use Only
The National Perk Serviue hae reviewed the Hialoric Prnervatten Certi?cation Application Pert1 for the above-named property end hu determined that the property:

contributes to the of the ebevenamed dietrid or National Register property and la a Wild htetortc structure' for rehabilitation Furnaces,
oontdbulee to the ignitianoe Of the above-named district and hletoric :u-ucture? lure dim-He contribution for coneenretlon 
doee not contribute to the ol'the above named dietiiot

Pretininary Detemtlnatlene:

emeere to meet the Netlomil Renilter Criteria for Evaluation amt will be listed in the National Regieler alt-tieleric Placee II noninatod by the Slate Hlatoric
Officer according to the proceduree ut lorth In 38 CFR Part on.

doe! net eppelrto meet the National Regl?ur Criteria for Eviueden it'll Will llk?y not Delleled In the National Register.

eppeareb contribute to the a potential which will liltdy be tilled in the National Register of Hletorlc Place: It noninaled by the State
ontoor.

Cl epoeare to contribute to he IitantF-unoeot'a reg alerted hietorie dlatrict lithe period or err-I olelqniilcence ea documented In the National Raqieler or district

deatmentellon on lite with the ll exp-armed by Hletonc 

   

I to we?! so a certi?ed Hated: It

deea
ii I 
Date MLMIIKW Service Authorized 

we attached

554- 2030

298191275

City of Detroit

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority

Community Advisory Committee
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

February 13, 2019

The Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1340
Detroit, Michigan 48226

City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Board of Directors

500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Exhibit 

Re: Recommendation for Approval of the Albert Kahn Brownfield Redevelopment Plan

Honorable Members of the Detroit City Council and the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment

Authority Board of Directors:

In accordance with the resolution of the Detroit City Council creating the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the ?Authority") the Community Advisory Committee at its meeting of
February 13 2019 adopted a resolution approving the proposed Brownfield Plan for the Albert
Kahn Redevelopment and recommending adoption of this Brown?eld Plan by the Authority and

City Council.

Please accept this letter of recommendation for approval from the Community Advisory
Committee on the Brownfield Plan forthe Albert Kahn Redevelopment.

Very truly yours,

?ee/x

All ans Chewy
Community Advisow Committee to the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority

Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963?2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE

ALBERT KAHN BUILDING
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

Thursday, February 7, 2019
Fisher Building
3011 W. Grand Boulevard, Room #122
Detroit, MI 48202
5:30 PM

In attendance were:
Jennifer Kanalos 
Brian Vosburg 
Cora Capler 
Richard Barr (Honigman)
Matthew Sosin (Albert Kahn)
Adam Lutz (Albert Kahn)
Steven Siegel (Albert Kahn)

Mr. Vosburg called the public hearing to order at 5:30 PM.

No members of the general public were in attendance. There were no comments
received in favor of or in opposition to the plan.

Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 5:54 PM.

Exhibit 

Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

 

CODE DBRA 19-02-264-Qg

 

ALBERT KAHN BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381"), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the has been established by resolution of the City
Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City Council?) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of
environmentally distressed areas in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption
by City Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA,
the DBRA has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the Albert Kahn Redevelopment Project
(the ??Plan") to the Community Advisory Committee for its consideration and comment and has
solicited comments by the public by publication of notice stating that the proposed Plan has been
submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a public hearing in the area
to which the proposed Plan applies; and

WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and
approved a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan by the DBRA and the
City Council as presented by the and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the
DBRA has considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to
request that City Council call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the
proposed Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the adeption of the
Brownfield Plan for the Albert Kahn Redevelopment Project is in keeping with the purposes of
Act 381 and recommends submittal of the Plan to City Council for approval.

2. The Board of Directors of the DBRA approves the Plan substantially in the form
attached hereto and on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.

3. Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified
copy of this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the City Council
call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the
Plan in accordance with Act 381.

4. That any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or
any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and
execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.

5. That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA,
in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such
acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed,

approved and ratified.

6. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions
of this resolution are rescinded.

February 13, 2019

 (If metroit

Irvin Corley, Jr.

Executive Policy Manager CITY COUNCIL
?3353; ?3115? LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Deputy Director Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

John Alexander

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, AICP
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq.

Tasha Cowen

Richard Drumb

George Etheridge

Deborah Goldstein

TO: Honorable Detroit City Co cil

  
  

FROM: David Whitaker, Director
Legislative Policy Divis' ?Jl?l Staff

DATE: February 13 2019

RE: BUFFER SPACE LEGISLATION

32.

Christopher Gulock, AICP
Derrick Headd

Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan

Jamie Murphy

Carolyn Nelson

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

Theresa Thomas

Underwood
Ashlev A. Wilson

This memorandum is in response to the June 21, 2018 memo submitted by the of?ce of Council
Member Casta?eda?Lopez in regards to a request for the City Flaming Commission and the Law
Department to work jointly with her of?ce to develop legislation regarding buffer space in the

City of Detroit, inclusive of vegetative, spatial and sound buffers.

In June of 201 8, Your Honorable Body approved a two-year contract with Code Studio to assist
the City Plaming Commission is revising and updating the Detroit Zoning Ordinance. Inclusive
in that scope of work are appropriate zoning requirments for buf?ering hazardous waste
facilities, low-impact, high-medium, high and very high impact industrial districts. As this work
will follow our typical collaborative process there will be opportunity for City Council and city

agencies to contribute to this work.

The scope of work is anticipated to be completed in 2020, at which time the recommendations
will be presented to the City Plaming Commission and ultimately to Your Honorable Body for

consideration.

Should you have any additional questions, or concerns, please contact our of?ce directly.


If


1..- Ila?ann?







COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

January 23, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
5021 Tireman, Detroit, MI 48204

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
Detroit Sound Conservancy (the a Michigan nonpro?t corporation, to purchase certain
City-owned real property at 5021 Tireman, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?). The entered into
a purchase agreement dated January 3, 2019, with the Purchaser. Under the terms of the proposed
Purchase Agreement, the Property will be conveyed to DSC for the purchase price of Eight
Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars 

The DSC proposes to rehabilitate the Blue Bird Inn, a Jazz club which was formerly operated in
the structure which is still located on the Property. DSC intends to re-open the club in the existing
structure. Currently, the Property is within a B4 zoning district (General Business District). 
proposed use of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is

zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a
transfer of the Property by the City to Detroit Sound Conservancy.

Respectfully submitted,

 

Maurice D. Cox
Director



cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

.i . .,
Hi?ill

21:1 



RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 5021 Tireman, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Detroit Sound Conservancy 
for the purchase price of Eight Thousand Five Hundred and 00/100 Dollars and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Property to DSC consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) our Hundred Twenty Five and 00/100 Dollars ($425.00) shall be
paid to the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs
up to Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Properties, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

TIREMAN LOT 32 BEECH HURST WILLIAM HOLMES SUB L17 P40 PLATS, 
16/169 30 120

a/k/a 5021 Tireman 
Tax Parcel ID 16001965

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By: 4 

.Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

 

