City of Chicago
Department of Planning and Development
STAFF REPORT
TO THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
REQUESTING APPROVAL OF THE FEASIBILITY STUDY AND REDEVELOPMENT
PLAN FOR THE PROPOSED CORTLAND AND CHICAGO RIVER TIF
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA, REQUESTING DESIGNATION OF THE AREA AS
A REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA, AND REQUESTING ADOPTION OF TAX
INCREMENT ALLOCATION FINANCING FOR THE AREA
February 19, 2019

I. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND OVERVIEW
Project Name:

Cortland and Chicago River

Location:

Generally bounded by Webster Avenue to the north, Clyboum
A venue to the east, North A venue to the south, and Elston
A venue and Besly Court on the west.

Ward and Alderman:

2nd Ward, Alderman Brian Hopkins

Community Area(s):

West Town, Logan Square, and Lincoln Park

Requested Action:

Approval of the feasibility study and redevelopment plan for
the proposed TIF district, designation of the area as a
redevelopment project area, and adoption of tax increment
allocation financing for the area.

Goals of TIF District:

The area is being considered for a TIF district in order to
improve public infrastructure. The public infrastructure
improvements include creating or improving new roads,
bridges, and public transportation options based off the
North Branch Framework Plan.

II. AREA DESCRIPTION
Street Boundaries:

The area is generally bounded by Webster Avenue to the
north, Clyboum Avenue to the east, North Avenue to the
south, and Elston A venue and Besly Court on the west.

Land Area:

Approximately 168 acres

Land Uses:

Mixed-Use and Transitional Overlay

 Current Conditions:

Vacant and improved area along the North Branch Chicago
River.

III. FEASIBILITY STUDY
History and Background
Cortland and Chicago River Tax Increment Financing Redevelopment Project Area is approximately
168 acres in size. The Project Area is situated along the North Branch of the Chicago River and lies
within West Town, Logan Square and Lincoln Park community areas.
The area's early growth was due to the Chicago River that was that used in large part to the steel
industry, lumber yards, brickyards, and tanneries. The area was well positioned to take the lead in
industrial development The Chicago River had a crucial role in trade and shipping throughout the
Midwest and down the Mississippi River.
By the middle ofthe 19th century, the expansion of the railroad system enabled the area to become a
stronghold for the steel industry. There were a number of steel mills and industrial companies located
in the project area through the 19th century and first half of the 20th century including A. Fink! &
Sons, A. Lakin & Sons, General Iron, and Standard Oil Storage and Distribution. A. Fink! & Sons
relocated to the far south side of Chicago in 2013 which left the 22 acre site vacant.
By the 1970s and 1980s, a decline in steel demand plus international competition resulted in massive
layoffs and factory closure throughout the City. Between 1979 and 1986, roughly 16 000 Chicago
area steelworkers lost their jobs. By the end of the 20 1h Century, Chicago s steel industry was
characterized by small scale operations using recycle scrap metal.
As the areas around these industrial businesses started to flourish with new young urban
professionals, a new for commercial development was created. With new residents and new
commercial surrounding the area, the roadways and bridges in the area created bottlenecks and
significant traffic congestion.
At that time, the City of Chicago recognized the importance of the industrial businesses as an
important economic engine and job provider. In an effort to preserve and protect this concentration of
industrial uses and the jobs associated with them, the city enacted protective zoning measures named
Planned Manufacturing Districts ("PMD") for the North Branch Industrial Corridor and other
industrial areas in the City.
Despite the protective measures ensured by the PMD zoning, land uses within the North Branch
Industrial Corridor and particularly, the Project Area, have shifted away dramatically from heavy
industry since 1990.
In an effort to grow and support existing manufacturers as well as accommodate new and innovative
industries that generate jobs and economic growth, the City has updated its industrial land use policies
to address the changing character of modern manufacturing, technology-focused employment, freight
related growth and traditional manufacturing. In July 2017, the Chicago Plan Commission adopted the
North Branch Framework Plan and Design Guidelines to address the land use, transportation and

 natural resources components that are critical to successful modernization of the North Branch
Industrial Corridor.
Eligibility Data

Johnson Research Group (JRG) conducted an eligibility analysis to determine whether the Area
qualifies for a tax increment financing (TIF) designation under the TIF Act. For TIF designation,
a redevelopment project area must qualify for classification as a conservation area, a blighted
area, or a combination of both blighted and conservation areas as set forth in the Act. Surveys
and analyses documented in this report indicate that the Project Area is eligible as a blighted area
within the requirements of the Act.
The Project Area qualifies as a blighted area under the vacant and improved area criteria as set
forth in the Act. Specifically, for the vacant parcels, the Consultant found that on an overall
combination of two or more of some 6 factors are meaningfully present and reasonably
distributed within the vacant land. Qualification under only one criterion is required.
a.
b.
c.
d.

Obsolete platting
Environmental remediation costs have been incurred or are required
Deterioration of structures or site improvements in adjacent areas
Declining or lagging growth in total EAV

For the improved area, the Consultant found that an overall 5 of the 13 blighting factors are
present throughout the Area. These include:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Obsolescence
Deterioration
Excessive Land Coverage
Inadequate Utilities
Declining or Lagging EAV

III. REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

The City seeks to create a Tax Increment Financing District for the area known as the Cortland
and Chicago River Redevelopment Project Area in order to reduce or eliminate the blighting
factors.
The Goal of the TIF, as defined in the Plan, are:
1. Maintain the Project Area as an important economic engine and vital job center within the
North Branch Industrial Corridor and the City of Chicago.
2. Provide better access for all transportation modes.
3. Build upon the Project Area's unique natural and built environment.

 IV. HOUSING IMPACT STUDY
A housing impact study was not required for the proposed redevelopment plan, as there are no
residential units located within the Redevelopment Project Area.

V.BUDGET
Estimated Redevelopment Project Costs:
TIF EXPENSE CATEGORY

ESTIMATED COST

Analysis, Administration, Studies, Surveys, Legal, Marketing, etc.

$25,000,000

Property Assembly including Acquisition, Site Prep and Demolition, Environmental
Remediation

$25,000,000

Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings, Fixtures and Leasehold Improvements,
Affordable Housing Construction and Rehabilitation costs

$25,000,000

Public Works & Improvements, including streets and utilities, parks and open space,
public facilities (schools & other public faci litiesP 1
Job Training, Retraining, Welfare-to-Work

TOTAL ESTIMATED COSTS[ 21[JJ

$800,000,000
$25,000,000
$900,000,000

The Total Redevelopment Project Costs represent the upper limit on expenditures that are to be
funded using TIF revenues.
VI. PUBLIC NOTIFICATION AND PUBLIC MEETING
The taxpayers and owners of properties located in the proposed district were notified by regular and
certified mail oftoday's public hearing not less than 10 days prior to the meeting. The City also made
a good faith effort to notify by mail all residents of the proposed district, and at a minimum mailed a
notice to each residential address within the proposed district. Notice of the public hearing was made
in the Chicago Sun-Times on February 8, 2019 and February 9, 2019. Notice ofthe public hearing
was also made by mail, at least 45 days prior to the hearing, to all taxing districts having taxable
property in the proposed TIF area and to the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity (DCEO).
When a proposed redevelopment plan would result in the displacement of 10 or more inhabited
residential units, or if the redevelopment area contains 75 or more inhabited residential units, then the
City must hold a public meeting at least 14 days before mailing notice ofthe public hearing. The
purpose of the public meeting is to enable the City to advise the public~ taxpayers of property in the
proposed area, residents of the proposed area, and the affected taxing bodies ofthe City's possible
intent to prepare a redevelopment plan and designate the area a redevelopment project area, and to
receive public comment. DPD held a public meeting at 6:00 pm on November 14, 2018 at Renew
Chicago Church, 1001 North Crosby Street, Chicago, IL 60610.

 Vll. COMMUNITY SUPPORT
Alderman Hopkins and 21 organizations and community groups endorse this action.
Vlll. JOINT REVIEW BOARD
As required by state law, the Joint Review Board (JRB) met to consider the proposed TIF designation
on January 11, 2019 at 10:00 am in Room 201A, City Hall, 121 N. LaSalle Street. The JRB is an
advisory board that consists of representatives of certain affected taxing bodies, a City representative,
plus a public member. The JRB voted to recommend the proposed TIF designation.
V. RECOMMENDATION

The Department of Planning and Development requests that the commission recommends to the City
Council approval of the redevelopment plan for the proposed Cortland and Chicago River Tax
Increment Financing Redevelopment Project Area, recommend designation of the area as a
Redevelopment Project Area, and recommend adoption oftax increment allocation financing for the
area.

EXHIBITS
Redevelopment Area Map
Land Use Map

 0

..J

w

~·

u:
LL

5

tl

w

:r

~

. I

DCKENS

Ul

"'"

'. Jl

'

.
ARMITAGE
I

I

1 ~!
j~l

/

co :c

JUUAN

i::l Project Area
8lACK11AWK

":i
ro

~ Blocks

2

O

()

Parcels

FIGURE 2. Project Area Boundary
CORTLAND/CHICAGO RIVER

TIF

Prepared by : Johnson Research Group, Inc.

NtH

08 .18

 WEBSTER

!w

z

'"'

~u

w

z

~

0
.:::;

lz
•w

:"'

!llr".KfrNS

ARMITAGE
~

UD

:;1 1 M I NIII~Y

>

~
:i
"'"'

WABANSYA

PIEilCE

lEMOYNE

s·

~·

LEM OYNE ~

w
w
a:

JUI.II\N

LEMOYNE (1

~

\

'~

l'l

i::.j Project Area
Future Land Use Plan

BEACH

Mixed Use
Transitional Overlay District
:------, ·
i
!,

BLACKHAWK

!-,\!

FIGURE 3. Land Use Plan

CoRTLAND/CHICAGo RIVER

TIF

)

BL~~HAWK .

...

NORTH

Prepared by: Johnson Research Group, Inc. 08.18

 TIF Area Designation: CDC Form2b-recomml11904

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
OF THE
CITY OF CHICAGO
RESOLUTION

-CDC-

RECOMMENDING TO THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF CHICAGO
FOR THE PROPOSED
CORTLAND AND CHICAGO RIVER
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA:
APPROVAL OF THE REDEVELOPMENT PLAN,
DESIGNATION AS A REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA
AND ADOPTION OFTAX INCREMENT ALLOCATION FINANCING

WHEREAS, the Community Development Commission (the "Commission") of the City of
Chicago (the "City") has heretofore been appointed by the Mayor of the City with the approval
of its City Council ("City Council," referred to herein collectively with the Mayor as the
"Corporate Authorities") (as codified in Section 2-124 of the City's Municipal Code) pursuant to
Section 5/11-74.4-4(k) of the Illinois Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, as amended
(65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et~.) (the "Act"); and
WHEREAS, the Commission is empowered by the Corporate Authorities to exercise certain
powers set forth in Section 5/11-74.4-4(k) of the Act, including the holding of certain public
hearings required by the Act; and
WHEREAS, staff of the City's Department of Planning and Development has conducted or
caused to be conducted certain investigations, studies and surveys of the Cortland and Chicago
River area, the street boundaries of which are described on ·xhibit A hereto (the "Area"), to
determine the eligibility of the Area as a redevelopment project area as defined in the Act (a
"Redevelopment Project Area") and for tax increment allocation financing pursuant to the Act
("Tax Increment Allocation Financing"), and previously has presented the following documents
to the Commission for its review:

Cortland and Chicago River Tax Increment Financing Eligibility Report (the "Report");
and
Cortland and Chicago River Tax Increment Financing Redevelopment Plan and Project
(the "Plan"); and

 TIF Area Designallon: CDC Form2b-recomm111904

WHEREAS, a public meeting (the "Public Meeting") was held in accordance and in compliance
with the requirements of Section 5/11-74.4-6(e) of the Act on November 14, 2018 at 6:00P.M.
at The Renew Chicago Church, 1001 North Crosby Street Chicago, Illinois, being a date not less
than 14 business days before the mailing of the notice of the Hearing (hereinafter defined),
pursuant to notice from the City's Commissioner of the Department of Planning and
Development given on October 31, 2018, being a date not less than 15 days before the date of the
Public Meeting, by certified mail to all taxing districts having real property in the proposed Area
and to all entities requesting that information that have taken the steps necessary to register to be
included on the interested parties registry for the proposed Area in accordance with Section 5/1174.4.2 of the Act and, with a good faith effort, by regular mail to all residents and the last known
persons who paid property taxes on real estate in the proposed Area (which good faith effort was
satisfied by such notice being mailed to each residential address and the person or persons in
whose name property taxes were paid on real property for the last preceding year located in the
proposed Area), which to the extent necessary to effectively communicate such notice, was given
in English and in other languages; and

WHEREAS, prior to the adoption by the Corporate Authorities of ordinances approving a
redevelopment plan, designating an area as a Redevelopment Project Area or adopting Tax
Increment Allocation Financing for an area, it is necessary that the Commission hold a public
hearing (the "Hearing") pursuant to Section 5/11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, convene a meeting of a
joint review board (the "Board") pursuant to Section 5/ll-74.4-5(b) of the Act, set the dates of
such Hearing and Board meeting and give notice thereof pursuant to Section 5/11-74.4-6 of the
Act; and
WHEREAS, the Report and Plan were made available for public inspection and review since
November 30, 2018, being a date not less than 10 days before the Commission meeting at which
the Commission adopted Resolution 18-CDC-32 on December 5, 2018 fixing the time and place
for the Hearing, at City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois, in the following
offices: City Clerk, Room 107 and Department ofPlanning and Development, Room 1000; and
WHEREAS, notice of the availability of the Report and Plan, including how to obtain this
information, were sent by mail on December 14, 2018, which is within a reasonable time after
the adoption by the Commission of Resolution December 5, 2018 to: (a) all residential addresses
that, after a good faith effort, were determined to be (i) located within the Area and (ii) located
outside the proposed Area and within 750 feet of the boundaries of the Area (or, if applicable,
were determined to be the 750 residential addresses that were outside the proposed Area and
closest to the boundaries of the Area); and (b) organizations and residents that were registered
interested parties for such Area; and
WHEREAS, notice of the Hearing by publication was given at least twice, the first publication
being on February 8, 2019 a date which is not more than 30 nor less than l 0 days prior to the
2

 TIF Area Designation: CDC Form2b-recomml1!904

Hearing, and the second publication being on February 9, 2018, both in the Chicago Sun-Times,
being newspapers of general circulation within the taxing districts having property in the Area;
and
WHEREAS, notice of the Hearing was given by mail to taxpayers by depositing such notice in
the United States mail by certified mail addressed to the persons in whose names the general
taxes for the last preceding year were paid on each lot, block, tract or parcel of land lying within
the Area, on February 5, 2019, being a date not less than 10 days prior to the date set for the
Hearing; and where taxes for the last preceding year were not paid, notice was also mailed to the
persons last listed on the tax rolls as the owners of such property within the preceding three
years; and
WHEREAS, notice of the Hearing was given by mail to the Illinois Department of Conunerce
and Economic Opportunity ("DCEO") and members of the Board (including notice of the
convening of the Board), by depositing such notice in the United States mail by certified mail
addressed to DCEO and all Board members, on December 18, 2018, being a date not less than 45
days prior to the date set for the Hearing; and
WHEREAS, notice of the Hearing and copies of the Report and Plan were sent by mail to taxing
districts having taxable property in the Area, by depositing such notice and documents in the
United States mail by certified mail addressed to all taxing districts having taxable property
within the Area, on December 18,2018, being a date not less than 45 days prior to the date set
for the Hearing; and
WHEREAS, the Hearing was held on February 19, 2019 at 1:00 p.m. at City Hall, Council
Chambers, 121 North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois, as the official public hearing, and
testimony was heard from all interested persons or representatives of any affected taxing district
present at the Hearing and wishing to testify, concerning the Commission's recommendation to
City Council regarding approval of the Plan, designation of the Area as a Redevelopment Project
Area and adoption of Tax Increment Allocation Financing within the Area; and
WHEREAS, the Board meeting was convened on at January 11, 2019 (being a date at least 14
days but not more than 28 days after the date of the mailing of the notice to the taxing districts on
December 18, 2018 in Room 201, City Hall, 121 North LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois, to
review the matters properly coming before the Board to allow it to provide its advisory
recommendation regarding the approval of the Plan, designation of the Area as a Redevelopment
Project Area, adoption of Tax Increment Allocation Financing within the Area and other matters,
if any, properly before it, all in accordance with Section 5/11-74.4-S(b) ofthe Act; and
WHEREAS, the Commission has reviewed the Report and Plan, considered testimony from the
Hearing, if any, the recommendation of the Board, if any, and such other matters or studies as the
Commission deemed necessary or appropriate in making the findings set forth herein and
formulating its decision whether to recommend to City Council approval of the Plan, designation
of the Area as a Redevelopment Project Area and adoption of Tax Increment Allocation
Financing within the Area; now, therefore,
3

 TIF Area Designation: CDC Form2b-recomm111904

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION OF THE
CITY OF CHICAGO:
Section 1. The above recitals are incorporated herein and made a part hereof.
Section 2. The Commission hereby makes the following findings pursuant to Section 5/11-74.43(n) of the Act or such other section as is referenced herein:
a. The Area on the whole bas not been subject to growth and development through
investment by private enterprise and would not reasonably be expected to be developed
without the adoption of the Plan;
b. The Plan:
(i) conforms to the comprehensive plan for the development of the City as a
whole; or
'
(ii) the Plan either (A) conforms to the strategic economic development or
redevelopment plan issued by the Chicago Plan Commission or (B) includes land
uses that have been approved by the Chicago Plan Commission;
c. The Plan meets all of the requirements of a redevelopment plan as defined in the Act
and, as set forth in the Plan, the estimated date of completion of the projects described
therein and retirement of all obligations issued to finance redevelopment project costs is
not later than December 31 of the year in which the payment to the municipal treasurer as
provided in subsection (b) of Section 5/11 -74.4-8 of the Act is to be made with respect to
ad valorem taxes levied in the twenty-third calendar year following the year of the
adoption of the ordinance approving the designation of the Area as a redevelopment
project area and, as required pursuant to Section 5/11-74.4-7 of the Act, no such
obligation shall have a maturity date greater than 20 years;
d. To the extent required by Section 5/11 B74.4-3(n) (6) of the Act, the Plan incorporates
the housing impact study, if such study is required by Section 5/11-74.4-3(n)(5) of the
Act;
e. The Plan will not result in displacement of residents from inhabited units.
f. The Area includes only those contiguous parcels of real property and improvements
thereon that are to be substantially benefitted by proposed Plan improvements, as
required pursuant to Section 5/11-74.4-4(a) ofthe Act;

g. As required pursuant to Section 5/11-74.4-J(p) of the Act:

4

 TIF Area Designallon: CDC Form2b-recomm111904

(i) The Area is not less, in the aggregate, than one and one-half acres in size; and
(ii) Conditions exist in the Area that cause the Area to qualify for designation as a
redevelopment project area and a blighted area as defined in the Act;
h. If the Area is qualified as a "blighted area", whether improved or vacant, each of the
factors necessary to qualify the Area as a Redevelopment Project Area on that basis is (i)
present, with that presence documented to a meaningful extent so that it may be
reasonably found that the factor is clearly present within the intent of the Act and (ii)
reasonably distributed throughout the improved part or vacant part, as applicable, of the
Area as required pursuant to Section 5/ll-74.4-3(a) of the Act;
i. If the Area is qualified as a "conservation area", the combination of the factors
necessary to qualify the Area as a redevelopment project area on that basis is detrimental
to the public health, safety, morals or welfare, and the Area may become a blighted area;

Section 3. The Commission recommends that the City Council approve the Plan pursuant to
Section 5/11-74.4-4 of the Act.
Section 4. The Commission recommends that the City Council designate the Area as a
Redevelopment Project Area pursuant to Section Sill-74.4-4 of the Act.
Section 5. The Commission recommends that the City Council adopt Tax Increment Allocation
Financing within the Area.
Section 6. If any provision of this resolution shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any
reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of such provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this resolution.
Section 7. All resolutions, motions or orders in conflict with this resolution are hereby repealed
to the extent of such conflict.
Section 8. This resolution shall be effective as of the date of its adoption.
Section 9. A certified copy of this resolution shall be transmitted to the City Council.
ADOPTED: - - - --

-

- - - - · 2019

List of Attachments:
Exhibit A: Street Boundary Description of the Area

5

 TIF Aree DeslgnaUon: CDC Form2b-recomm111904

EXHIBIT A
Street Boundary Description of the
Cortland and Chicago River Tax Increment Financing
Redevelopment Project Area

' The area is generally bounded by Webster Avenue to the north, Clybourn Avenue to the east,
North Avenue to the south, and Elston Avenue and Besly Court on the west.

6

 