TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL if?) gait/awning Cheddar/team
JESSICA MILES
Millennial 0n the Move

WHEREAS Jessica Miles was born on January 4, 1993, to Elizabeth and Timothy Miles. Jessica is an energetic
and goal-driven native Detroiter who has exceeded all expectations. As an organized Project Manager, Jessica displays
extensive problem-solving abilities.

WHEREAS Jessica attended Detroit Public Schools, graduating from Cass Technical High School in 20  1. She
matriculated to Bowling Green State University where she obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in Technology,
Construction Management. She then went on to pursue her Masters of Science in Project Management, graduating
?'om the University of Phoenix. Jessica?s areas of expertise include the comprehension of contract documents, facility
management, and effective communication with team members in a fast-paced engineering and construction
environment. Jessica began her professional career in 2016 as a Cost Engineer at DeMaria Building Company where
she focused on cost management and helped estimate eXpenses as well as monitor projects to ensure resources were
maximized. Climbing the corporate ladder, she transferred to Toledo, Ohio and worked as a Project Engineer for
Barton Malow reviewing project plans and proposals, working directly with management to develop project objectives
while also calculating the time ?ames and sequences of stages for projects. Jessica was a Project Engineer for
Beaumont Health, working collaboratively with hospital administration to develop project charters ranging from 3 
20M. She also developed project authorization for packages of materials that included business planning/business
decision making information as well as information related to project scope, schedule, and budget. Some of Jessica's
skills are of administration, management, blueprint reading, engineering and technology, time management, critical
thinking, scheduling, problem solving, and public safety and security; and

WHEREAS Jessica has had a passion to work with the youth of Detroit as well as women who are challenged
with gender boundaries. She dedicated well over [000 hours of community service in the year 2018 alone. Jessica?s
core values are of leadership. creativity, ef?ciency, growth, and perseverance in which she practices in all aspects of
her daily life. Jessica served as Committee Co-Chair with the Detroit Delta GEM special events project. She served
as a board member on THINK Detroit PAL and was a WEST 7 Rams Youth Club Cheer Coordinator for 4 years.
Jessica was also a task force team promoter for Detroit City Council President Brenda Jones. In February 20l9, she
received a promotion with Wayne State University as a Project Manager. NOW, THEREFORE BE RESOLVED

RESOLVED That the Detroit City Council and oilice of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby extends
congratulations to Jessica Miles, a strong, inspirational woman, dedicated to her goals and serving the community.

    

 

  
 

?0 '2



 

 

    

 

 

 

MARCH 5, 2019
DATE

