

BUD GET, 
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

City of Benoit

Janice 35- Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Gavan West
City ?ak Deputy City Clerk/miefafsmf,?

February 27, 2019

Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Application for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for
Midtown, LLC

Dear Council Members:

On October 21, 1992, your Honorable Body established Neighborhood
Enterprise Zones. I am in receipt of one (1) application for a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone Certificate. THESE APPLICATIONS HAS BEEN REVIEWED AND
RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL BY THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION, A
COPY OF WHICH IS ATTACHED. Therefore, the attached Resolution, if adOpted by
your Honorable Body, will approve this application.

Respectfully submitted,
..

Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk


Enc.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226?3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1465

Resolution

By Council Member

WHEREAS, Michigan Public Act 147 of 1992 allows the local legislative body to
establish Neighborhood Enterprise Zones for the purpose of providing exemption from
as valorem property taxes, and the imposition of specific property tax in lieu of as
valorem taxes; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council has established a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
for the following area, in the manner required by and pursuant to Public Act 147 of
1992.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the City Council approve the following
address for receipt of Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for a fifteen-year
penod:

Zone Address Application No.

Midtown 655 W. Willis 06-8526

Alton James

@itp uf Eetrcit

Brenda Goss-Andrews
Lauren Hood MCD LisaIWhitmore Davis
Vice Chair/Secretary CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Etzg?lisl?iitfgt?i?? LEED
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336

e-mail: 

February 25, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certi?cate Application for the construction of a new

thirty-six (36) unit multifamily residential structure located at 655 W. Willis Street

in the Midtown Neighborhood Enterprise Zone area. (RECOMMEND
APPROVAL)

The of?ce of the City Planning Commission (CPC) has received one (1) application requesting a
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) certi?cate forwarded from the of?ce of the City Clerk for
the proposed construction of a new thirty?six (3 6) unit multifamily residential structure located at
655 W. Willis Street. This application corresponds to a quali?ed site that will facilitate the
construction of thirty-six (3 6) units of multifamily residential, 1,400 sq. ft. of commercial ground
?oor retail space and twenty-?ve (25) parking spaces on a third of an acre which is currently

vacant. The anticipated development will be approximately 38,200 sq. ft. 23,562 sq. ft., of which
will be the aforementioned residential units on the second through fourth ?oors.

The subject property have been con?rmed as being within the boundaries of the Midtown NEZ
and should be eligible for NEZ certi?cates under State Act 147 of 1992 as currently written. The

estimated project cost for the development is $6,726,075.00. The NEZ certi?cate applications
appear to have been submitted prior to the issuance of any applicable building permits.

Please contact our of?ce should you have any questions.

Respectfully submitted,

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director CPC
George A. Etheridge, City Planner, LPD

OF THE
emotion CITY CLERK

2m FEB 21 A ?=05

cc: Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

City of Ben-nit

ia?ioe M- ?Winfrey OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy City of Staff

February 27, 2019

Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Application for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for
Hubbard Farms

Dear Council Members:

On October 21, 1992, your Honorable Body established Neighborhood
Enterprise Zones. I am in receipt of one (1) application for a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone Certificate. THESE APPLICATIONS HAS BEEN REVIEWED AND
RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL BY THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION, A
COPY OF WHICH IS ATTACHED. Therefore, the attached Resolution, if adopted by
your Honorable Body, will approve this application.

R/e ectfully submitted,


I 6
Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk


Enc.

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 0 Fax (313) 224-1466

Resolution

By Council Member

WHEREAS, Michigan Public Act 147 of 1992 allows the local legislative body to
establish Neighborhood Enterprise Zones forthe purpose of providing exemption from
as valorem property taxes, and the imposition of specific property tax in lieu of as
valorem taxes; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council has established a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
for the following area, in the manner required by and pursuant to Public Act 147 of
1992.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the City Council approve the following
address for receipt of Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for a fifteen-year
penod:

Zone Address Application No.

Hubbard Farms 4004 Porter Street 06-8523

Alton James

mm (titty of Eettnit

Brenda Cass-Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis
Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION gm? 
. . regory Pawlowskl
208 Coleman A. Young Munlcipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336

e-mail: 

February 27, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certi?cate Application for the rehabilitation of a

twelve (12) unit multifamily residential structure located at 4004 Porter Street in the

Hubbard Farms Neighborhood Enterprise Zone area. (RECOMMEND
APPROVAL)

The of?ce of the City Flaming Commission (CPC) has received one (1) application requesting a
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) certi?cate forwarded from the of?ce of the City Clerk for
the proposed rehabilitation of an existing twelve (12) unit multifamily residential structure

located at 4004 Porter Street. This application corresponds to a quali?ed site that will facilitate
the rehabilitation of an existing 7 unit townhome into 12 residential rental units. The 16,404 sq. 
ft. multi-family development will consist of three-, two? and one-bedroom units.

The subject property have been con?rmed as being within the boundaries of the Hubbard Farms
NEZ and should be eligible for NEZ certi?cates under State Act 147 of 1992 as currently
written. The estimated project cost for the development is $2,981,232.21. The NEZ certificate

applications appear to have been submitted prior to the issuance of any applicable building
permits.

Please contact our of?ce should you have any questions.

Respectfully submittedMarcell R. Todd, Jr., Director CPC
mg"; George A. Etheridge, City Planner, LPD

LIJ 
C3

cc: Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

cup of Detroit

M- OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK Caven West
City Clerk Deputy City Clerk/Misfofstaff

February 27, 2019

Honorable City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Application for Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for
Corktown Lofts, LLC

Dear Council Members:

On October 21, 1992, your Honorable Body established Neighborhood
Enterprise Zones. I am in receipt of one (1) application for a Neighborhood Enterprise
Zone Certificate. THESE APPLICATIONS HAS BEEN REVIEWED AND
RECOMMENDED FOR DENIAL BY THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION, A COPY
OF WHICH IS ATTACHED. Therefore, the attached Resolution, if adopted by your
Honorable Body, will approve this application.

Respectfully submitted,

3

l1


Janice M. Winfrey
City Clerk


Enc.


200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 0 Detroit, Michigan 48226-3400
(313) 224 3260 - Fax (313) 224-1466

Resolution

By Council Member

WHEREAS, Michigan Public Act 147 of 1992 allows the local legislative body to
establish Neighborhood Enterprise Zones for the purpose of providing exemption from
as valorem property taxes, and the imposition of specific property tax in lieu of as
valorem taxes; and

WHEREAS, The Detroit City Council has established a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
for the following area, in the manner required by and pursuant to Public Act 147 of
1992.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That the City Council approve the following
address for receipt of Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certificate for a fifteen-year
pe?od:

Zone Address Application No.
Corktown Lofts, LLC 1702 W. Fort St. 06-8525

Alton James ?it? of Btr?it Brenda Goss-Andrews

MCD Lisa Whitmore Davis
auren 00 ?d a AIA LEED
Vice Chair/Secretaw CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Gigorysga?f?wsk,?

208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, Jr,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224?4336
e-mail: 

February 25, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Certi?cate Application for twenty-two (22)
rehabilitated apartment units located at 1702 W. Fort Street. (RECOMMEND
DENIAL)

The of?ce of the City Planning Commission (CPC) has received one (1) application requesting a
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (N EZ) certi?cate forwarded from the of?ce of the City Clerk for
the rehabilitation of 22-units in an existing four-story commercial building located at 1702 W.
Fort Street. This application does not correspond to a quali?ed site. While the subject property
located at 1702 W. Fort Street may qualify for the establishment of an NEZ district, no such
district has been applied for or granted by Your Honorable Body. The overall project seeks to
rehabilitate this historic building and transform it into a mixed?use development, including retail
and of?ce on the lower ?oors and residential on the upper ?oors. The application received
applies only to the rehabilitation of the fourth ?oor of the structure to create 22 residential
apartment units at an estimated cost of $13.1 million. The cost of the retail and of?ce
development is not included within the investment cost. A residential addition atop the historic
structure to create an additional 11 residential units is also outside the scope of the requested
certi?cate.

As staffed above, the subject property is not located within the boundaries of an established NEZ
district. If the applicant were to submit a request for the establishment of a district, and should
Your Honorable Body approve that request, CPC staff would certainly re-evaluate the certi?cate
request at that time in accordance with the provisions under State Act 147 of 1992 as currently
written. While rehabilitative work has commenced on the subject property this does not preclude
the developer from applying for an NEZ certi?cate given the historic character of the subject

property.

Please contact our of?ce should you have any questions.

Respectfully submitted,

90 
?7
El;
ma
33331113 U0 Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director CPC
0 33/ 3,3136! George A. Etheridge, City Planner, LPD

cc: Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

David Whitaker, Esq.
Director

Irvin Corley, Jr.
Executive Policy
Manager

Marcell R. Todd, Jr.
Senior City Planner
Janese Chapman

Deputy Director

LaKisha Barclift, Esq.

M. Rory Bolger, 
AICP

Elizabeth Cabot. Esa.

Qtitp at Eetmit

CITY COUNCIL

LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

4

Christopher Gulock,
AICP

Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Kimani Jeffrey

Anne Marie Langan
Jamie Murphy

Kim Newby

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley
Thomas Stephens, Esq.
David Teeter

TO: The Honorable Detroit it Cou eil

 
 

FROM: David Whitaker, Directc 
Legislative Policy Divi ion (LPD) Staff
DATE: February 25, 2018
RE: Income Tax Reporting Regarding Non-Detroit Residents

Earning Income in the City

President Pro Tem Shef?eld directed the Legislative Policy Division (LPD) to consult with the
Of?ce of the Chief Financial Of?cer (OCFO) and draft an ordinance that mandates periodic
reporting to the City by employers of non-Detroit residents who earn income in the City, which is
therefore taxable by the City at the rate of Due to the City?s well-documented ?scal
challenges, the importance of collecting every single potential revenue dollar cannot be overstated.
And because of state laws limited mandatory withholding and other factors, it has been widely
alleged that many nonresident workers who actually earn income by work performed in the City
may nevertheless not be paying local income tax on those earnings. Therefore this is a problem
that cries out for solutions to bene?t the City and our residents.

At the outset, it should be noted that after multiple discussions with OCFO and Pro Tem Shef?eld
and her staff regarding this assignment, there are apparently non-resident employees working in
Detroit who may be of concern: employees of City contractors vs. employees (or other agents
or partners) of innovative, ?new economy? business models (designed in part to avoid tax liabilities
that would otherwise apply, as part of their business model), such as Uber and Arbnb.

LPD notes that: 1) no single legislative strategy would even provide for, much less implement and
enforce, income (or property or business) tax liability of a_ll potential categories of workers under
this broad ?non-resident employer (or principal)? umbrella; 2) OCFO has stated that they believe,
through their powers to conduct audits and request discovery and investigation of information from
any corporations conducting business in the City, they already have the powers they need to pursue

the efforts to collect all the revenue the City is owed under lawlg and 3) It would take $25 million
worth of untaxed income by non-resident employees who ?t any category subject to local income
tax, at the low rate of to generate new tax collected revenue of $300,000; an extremely high
target income ?gure for what may in reality be available, generating at best modest tax receipts.

The importance of the issue of increasing income tax revenues to the City even led to recent action
in the State legislature to increase income tax collections in the City, via House Bills 4618 and
5025 (attached). This lame duck session legislation from December 2018 amended the City
Income Tax Act and the Revenue Act to provide new income tax collection procedures for the
City. Employers outside Detroit are authorized to voluntarily register to withhold taxes of their
employees who are residents of Detroit. Hopefully this new State legislation will lead to
signi?cant increased income tax revenue, and additional local legislation addressing the issue of
nonresident employees who earn taxable income in the City.

After duly consulting with OCFO, LPD offers the following draft language in response to this
assignment:

?All entities who are parties to any contract with the City of Detroit, for delivery of goods or
services of any kind, shall ?le an annual report by no later than January 31 of each year,
identifying all employees, of?cials, subcontractors and other agents of the contractor who
earned income within the previous calendar year performing work within the City of Detroit,
as well as the amount of such income earned by each and every such individual performing
work within the City of Detroit during the previous calendar year.?

The January 31 date is chosen primarily so that the reports would be received by Council in a
timely fashion for consideration during the budget process over the next few months. It is 
understanding that revenue collection of?cials within OCFO would then cross-check the data
provided by such reports against income tax returns either ?led, or not, by the named individuals,
to determine whether or not the City is owed additional tax revenue by those individuals. Although
ProTem?s original referral requested quarterly reporting, OCFO advises that they do not have the
personnel to conduct such reviews on a quarterly basis, so Council may wish to consider adjusting
the required reporting periods to annually.

If Council has any other questions or concerns regarding this subject, LPD will be happy to provide
further research and analysis upon request.

 

1 Of course, having those powers and effectively using them particularly against entities actively trying
to avoid liability may well be two different things, but the effectiveness of audit, investigation,
discovery and enforcement procedures is beyond the scope of this report.

Legislative Analysis

CITY INCOME TAX COLLECTION PROCEDURES

House Bill 4618 as enacted
Public Act 456 of 2018

House Bill 5025 as enacted
Public Act 553 of 2018

Sponsor: Rep. Wendell 

House Committee: Tax Policy

Senate Committee: Government Operations
Complete to 2?11-19

SUMMARY:



AGENCY

Phone: (517) 373-8080


Analysis available at
gov

House Bills 4613 and 5035 modify the City Income Tax Act and the Revenue Act, respectively,
to provide new city income tax collection procedures for the City of Detroit (?City?) and the
Michigan Department of Treasuiy (?department?). Pursuant to an agreement signed under the
City Income Tax Act, the department provides administration, enforcement, and collection
functions for the City?s city income tax.

House Bill 4618 authorizes an employer outside a city with a population of 600,000 or more
that imposes a city income tax the City of Detroit) to voluntarily register to withhold taxes
of employees that are residents of the City. An employee of the employer who elects to
withhold city income taxes for the City cannot opt out. An employer who elects to withhold
city income taxes for the City must withhold city income taxes from all employees who are
residents of the City.

If an employer elects to withhold taxes and subsequently wants to discontinue the practice, the
employer must ?le a written notice with the City and the department as acting administrator of
the city income tax for the City.

The bill authorizes the City to recover city income taxes with interest and penalties without a
judgment or order from a court through the imposition of a lien on property owned or wages,
or other income, reported on a Federal W-2 or 1099 form. The lien attaches to the property for
seven years after the date of attachment and may be extended for another seven years by re?ling
within six months of the initial lien?s expiration.

The lien takes precedence over all other liens and encumbrances, except bona fide liens
recorded before the date a lien ?led under this bill is recorded. Bona ?de liens only take
precedence to the extent of disbursements made under a financing arrangement before the 46th
day after the date of the tax lien recording or before the person making the disbursements had
actual knowledge of a tax lien recording under this ordinance, whichever is earlier.

A purchaser or succeeding purchaser of property upon which a lien executed under this bill is
attached is personally liable for the unpaid taxes due. The liability is limited to the value of the

House Fiscal Agency . Page 1 of 3

property less any proceeds that were applied to the balances due on secured interests which are
superior to the lien recorded.

The bill also permits the City to cause a demand to be made on a taxpayer for payment of city
income taxes due. The demand applies to property owned and wages, or other income, reported
on a Federal or 1099. If the liability is not paid within ten days of the demand and if
proceedings are not taken to review the liability, a warrant may be issued. The City may levy
the amount of the de?ciency on all property and sell the property found within the State for the
payment of the amount due, the cost of executing the warrant, and the additional penalties and
Interest.

A person who refuses or fails to surrender any property subject to levy, upon demand by the
City, is personally liable to the City for a sum equal to the value of the property not sun?endered,
not to exceed the amount due for which the levy was made together with the costs and interests
on the sum. Additionally, a person failing to surrender property without reasonable cause is
liable for a penalty equal to 50% of the value of the prOperty not surrendered plus costs and
interest.

Upon satisfaction of the tax liability, the City must ?le a release of the lien within 20 business
days of payment. If the City ?les for a lien and, upon request, determines that the taxpayer
named on the lien has no interest in certain properties owned by another person, the City must
?le a certi?cate of nonattachment with all due haste but not more than ?ve days after the City
determines that the lien was recorded or ?led against property to which the City does not have
a lien interest.

Once the City detennines that a tax liability is satis?ed, it must serve a release of levy on the
person that was served a warrant or warrant-notice of levy not more than ten days following
the payment of the tax liability. Additionally, if, after issuing a warrant or warrant?notice of
levy, the City determines that the propeity is not subject to levy, the City must serve a release
of levy with all due haste but not more than ?ve business days after the determination.

The City must reimburse a person for any fee paid as a result of an erroneous recording or
?ling of a lien or erroneous issuance and service of a warrant or warrant?notice.

If the tax liability is satis?ed and the City subsequently ?les a lien, warrant, or warrant?notice
of levy determined to be in error, the City must ?le for recording a certi?cate of withdrawal of
the lien, in the case of a lien, or issue a release of levy, in the case of the warrant or wan'ant
notice of levy, with all due haste but not more than five business days after the determination
of error is made.

House Bill 5025 adds ?a known city income tax liability for a [city income] tax administered
by the department? to the list of liabilities to which the department may apply a state income
tax refund. Currently, the City of Detroit is the only city that has an agreement with the
department to administer and collect city income taxes on its behalf.

MCL 141.506, et al. (House Bill 4618)
MCL 205.30a (House Bill 5025)

House Fiscal Agency H85 4816 and 5025 as enacted Page 2 of3

BRIEF BACKGROUND:

The City Income Tax Act (1964 PA 284) permits a city to levy an income tax after the city has
adopted the uniform city income tax ordinance. Cities can only impose an income tax if one of
the following applies: 1) the city had a city income tax prior to 1995, or 2) after 1995, the city
income tax is approved by the voters of the city. The Department of Treasury website provides
links for city income tax forms for 22 Michigan cities.l

Treasury began processing Detroit?s individual income taxes in Januaiy 2016 (for tax year
2015) and corporate income taxes in January 2017 (for tax year 2016). According to a Treasury
press release, the transition was part of Detroit?s post-bankruptcy management plan.2 The city
income tax rates are: 2.4% (resident), 1.2% (non?resident), and 2.0% (corporate). In 2017, the
Detroit city income tax totaled $292.7 million of which $151.1 million came from non?
residents. Of the total amount collected between $10.0 and $15.0 million is received from
corporations.

FISCAL IMPACT:

The bills would increase city income tax revenues for the City of Detroit by an unknown, but
likely signi?cant amount. While administrative costs for the City of Detroit and the Department
of Treasury could increase, any costs would be more than offset by the increase in revenue due
to the enhanced collection methods.

If additional cities signed agreements with the Department of Treasury, the provisions in House

Bill 5025 would apply and would presumably lead to increased city income tax revenue
collections for those cities by an unknown amount.

Fiscal Analyst: Ben 

 

I This analysis was prepared by nonpartisan House Fiscal Agency staff for use by House members in their
deliberations, and does not constitute an of?cial statement of legislative intent.

 

1 Michigan Department of Treasury, ?City Income Tax Forms": 


3 State of Michigan, Department of Treasury, "State to begin processing Detroit individual income tax returns;
changes to take effect for 2015 tax year":

Press Release ?ll?h?n 

House Fiscal Agency HBs 4816 and 5025 as enacted Page 3 of3

Act No. 553
Public Acts of 2018
Approved by the Governor
December 27,2018

Filed with the Secretary of State
December 28,2018

EFFECTIVE DATE: December 28, 2018

STATE OF MICHIGAN
99TH LEGISLATURE
REGULAR SESSION OF 2018

Introduced by Rep. 

ENROLLED HOUSE BILL No. 5025

AN ACT to amend 1941 PA 122, entitled ?An act to establish the revenue collection duties of the department of
treasury; to prescribe its powers and duties as the revenue collection agency of this state; to prescribe certain powers
and duties of the state treasurer; to establish the collection duties of certain other state departments for money or
accounts owed to this state; to regulate the importation, stamping, and disposition of certain tobacco products; to
provide for the transfer of powers and duties now vested in certain other state boards, commissions, departments, and
offices; to prescribe certain duties of and require certain reports from the department of treasury; to provide procedures
for the payment, administration, audit, assessment, levy of interests or penalties on, and appeals of taxes and tax
liability; to prescribe its powers and duties if an agreement to act as agent for a city to administer, collect, and enforce
the city income tax act on behalf of a city is entered into with any city; to provide an appropriation; to abolish the state
board of tax administration; to prescribe penalties and provide remedies; and to declare the effect of this act,? by
amending section 30a (MCL 205.3 as amended by 1995 PA 116.

The People of the State ofilficlzigcm enact:

Sec. 30a. (1) If a taxpayer claims a refund that the department determines is valid as provided in section 30(2), and
the department identi?es a liability of the taxpayer described in subsection (2), the department shall ?rst apply the
amount of the refund as provided in subsections (2) and (3), and the excess, if any, shall be refunded or credited as
provided in section 30.

(2) The amount of a refund described in subsection 1) shall be applied to the following in the order of priority stated:
Any other known tax liability of the taxpayer to this state.

Any other known liability of the taxpayer to this state, including a liability to pay support if the right to receive
the support has been assigned to the state and the liability is the basis of a request for tax refund offset from the office
of child support.

Any of the following in the order of priority received, unless otherwise provided by law:

A support liability of the taxpayer that is the basis of a request for tax refund offset from the of?ce of child
support, other than as provided by subdivision 

(it) A writ of garnishment or other valid court order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction and directed to this
state or the state treasurer to satisfy a liability of the taxpayer.

A known city income tax liability for a tax administered by the department through an agreement entered into
under section 9 of chapter 1 of the city income tax act, 1964 PA 284, MCL 141.509.

(iv) A levy of the internal revenue service to satisfy a liability of the taxpayer.

(264)

 A liability to repay bene?ts obtained under the Michigan employment security act, 1936 (Ex Sess) PA 1,
MCL 421.1 to 421.75, to which the taxpayer was not entitled, upon a request for tax refund offset from the Michigan
unemployment insurance agency.

(3) If the claim for refund is reflected on a joint tax return, the department shall allocate to each joint taxpayer his
or her share of the refund. The amount allocated to each taxpayer shall be applied to his or her respective liabilities in
the order of priority stated in subsection (2).

(4) If the department determines that all or a portion of a refund claimed on a joint tax return is subject to
application to a liability of an obligated spouse, the department shall notify the joint taxpayers by first class mail sent
to the address shown on the joint return. The notice shall be accompanied by a nonobligated spouse allocation form. The
notice shall state all of the following:

That all or a portion of the refund claimed by the joint taxpayers is subject to interception to satisfy a liability
or liabilities of 1 or both spouses.

The nature of the other liability or liabilities and the name of the obligated spouse or spouses.

That a nonobligated spouse may claim his or her share of the refund by ?ling a nonobligated spouse allocation
form with the department of treasury not more than 30 days after the date the notice was mailed.

A statement of the penalties under subsection (7).

(5) A nonobligated spouse who wishes to claim his or her share of a tax refund shall file with the department a
nonobligated spouse allocation form. The nonobligated spouse allocation form shall be in a form specified by the
department and shall require the spouses to state the amount of income or other tax base and all adjustments to the
income or other tax base, including all subtractions, additions, deductions, credits, and exemptions, stated on their joint
income tax return or other joint tax return that is the basis for the claimed refund, and an allocation of these amounts
between the obligated and nonobligated spouse. In allocating these amounts, all of the following apply:

A federal deduction for 2-income married persons shall be allocated to the spouse with the lower income who
claims the deduction.

Individual income shall be allocated to the spouse who earned the income. Joint income shall be allocated equally
between the spouses. The tax base appropriate to tax other than income tax shall be similarly allocated.

Each spouse shall be allocated the personal exemptions he or she would be entitled to claim if separate federal
returns had been filed, except that dependency exemptions shall be prorated according to the relative income of the
spouses.

Adjustments resulting from a business shall be allocated to the spouse who claimed income from the business.

A homestead property tax credit shall be allocated to the spouse who owned the title or held the leasehold
interest in the property claimed as a homestead. A homestead property tax credit for property jointly owned or leased
shall be allocated jointly between the spouses.

Ownership of other assets relevant to the allocation shall be disclosed upon request of the department.

(6) A nonobligated spouse allocation form shall be signed by both joint taxpayers. However, the form may be
submitted without the signature of the obligated spouse if his or her signature cannot be obtained. The nonobligated
spouse shall certify that he or she has made a good faith effort to obtain the signature and shall state the reason that
the signature was not obtained.

(7) A person who knowingly makes a false statement on a nonobligated spouse allocation form shall be subject to a
penalty of $25.00 or 25% of the excessive claim for his or her share of the refund, whichever is greater, and other
penalties as provided in this act.

(8) A nonobligated spouse to whom the department has sent a notice under subsection (4), who fails to ?le a
nonobligated spouse allocation form within 30 days after the date the notice was mailed, shall be barred from commencing
any action against this state or the state treasurer to recover an amount withheld to satisfy a liability of the obligated
spouse to which a joint tax refund is applied under this section. The payment by this state of any amount applied to a
liability of a taxpayer under this section shall release this state and the state treasurer from all liability to the obligated
spouse, the nonobligated spouse, and any other person having or claiming any interest in the amount paid.

(9) The department shall promulgate rules under the administrative procedures act of 1960, 1969 PA 306, MCL 24.201
to 24.328, as necessary to implement this section. The rules shall include a procedure for assuring that a taxpayer
subject to application of a refund under this section and section 30 has received or will receive notice and an opportunity
for a hearing with respect to the liability to which the refund is to be applied.

(10) As used in this section:

?Nonobligated spouse? means a person who has filed a joint income tax return or other joint state tax return and
who is not liable for an obligation of his or her spouse described in subsection (2).

?Obligated spouse? means a person who has filed a joint income tax return or other joint state tax return and
who is liable for an obligation described in subsection (2) for which his or her spouse is not liable.

2

 ?Of?ce of child support? means the agency created in section 2 of the of?ce of child support act, 1971 PA 174,
MCL 400.232.

Enacting section 1. This amendatory act does not take effect unless House Bill No. 4618 of the 99th Legislature is



This act is ordered to take immediate effect.

"ask of a;saga;asthmatic



Secretary of the Senate

Approved 

Governor

