SSA 5 Regular Commission Meeting Minutes
January 24, 2019

PRESENT
Bonnie Dinell-Dimond
Alex J. Alemis
Angela Hurlock
Dorothy Hudson

ABSENT
Robert Loncar

SERVICE PROVIDER
Tom Schell
Dave Price
Diane Abbott
GUESTS
Albert Garcia
Laurentino Ramirez
John Heroff, 10th Ward Alderwoman’s Office
Lubica Benak, Chicago Department of Transportation
Ellen Schmidt, Chicago Department of Transportation
Alma Torres, Latino Resource Institute of Illinois
Ezequiel Herrera, Latino Resource Institute of Illinois
Meeting was called to order at 2:10 p.m.

1. Approval of Agenda
A motion to approve the agenda was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex
J. Alemis. Motion carried.
Welcome Lubica Benak and Ellen Schmidt from the Chicago Department of
Transportation. Presentation on Livable Streets Overview. The presentation
included examples of projects implemented throughout Chicago. It included
Streetscape designs, Make Way for People initiatives, and Green Alley
examples.
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

January 24, 2019

Ideas regarding the potential implementation of People Spots, Street Furniture,
Green Infrastructure, Community Identifiers, Street Lighting, and a Large Capital
Project for the Commercial Avenue were presented. The commissioners will
discuss and review the budget regarding any implementation of ideas presented.
2. Approval of the Minutes
The minutes of the December 20, 2018, meeting were reviewed. There being no
corrections or additions to the minutes, a motion to approve the December 20,
2018, meeting minutes was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J.
Alemis. Motion carried.

3. Financial Report
A draft of the Financial Reports for the month ending December 31, 2018, were
reviewed and discussed. Mr. Schell reviewed the revenues and expenses for the
month of December. After further discussion regarding the Financial Reports, a
vote to approve the final December 2018, financials will be held at the February
meeting.
Mr. Schell stated the audit will take place March 7th and March 8th and the report
will be presented at the April 25, 2019, SSA 5 meeting.

4. Cash Flow / Receivables
Mr. Schell provided the commissioners with a copy of the December, 2018 bank
reconciliation. After a discussion, a motion to accept the December bank
reconciliation was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Dorothy Hudson.
Motion carried.

5. Items for Approval
Mr. Schell presented the December and January invoices for payment approval.
After a brief discussion regarding the invoices, a motion to approve the
December and January invoices was made by Dorothy Hudson, seconded by
Angela Hurlock. Alex J. Alemis abstained. Motion carried.

6. Items for Discussion/Old Business
Two of the previously approved façade rebate projects are requesting further
funds for approval.
South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 MINUTES OF A REGULAR MEETING
OF THE COMMISIONERS OF SSA 5

January 24, 2019

Jackson Hewitt building removed their awning and was unable to tuck-point until
the wall was rebuilt (due to decay and structural issues). A motion to approve an
additional $3,168.00 to complete the renovations was made by Dorothy Hudson,
seconded by Angela Hurlock. Alex J. Alemis abstained. Motion carried.
B & W Realty building also required additional structural repairs in order to install
lighting in the doorway that was repaired. A motion to approve an additional
$3,687.00 to complete the renovations was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded
by Dorothy Hudson. Alex J. Alemis abstained. Motion carried.
Mr. Schell informed that four Façade Rebates were awarded in 2018.
It was requested that the snow removal extend down 92nd to the Metro Station.
Dave Price will call and request that this is completed.
Mr. Schell stated that per the Department of Planning, any individual that
announces candidacy for office, must resign from the SSA Commissioner
position. Mr. Schell shared that he requested Robert Loncar submit his
resignation as he is a candidate for the 10th Ward Alderman position.

7. Program Manager Report
Dave Price presented the TTI Bowling Chart and the target areas to improve with
the goals to improve them. Dave Price went over each area and the status of the
goals. Dave Price said that the goals may change slightly based on the final
report from the Strategic Deployment Workshop. Dave Price discussed the
Strategic Deployment Workshop and that many good ideas as well as new
potential committee members were established. The workshop had 23
attendees. Dave will distribute a complete report once it is finalized.
Dave Price presented the brainstorm ideas from the Event Committee. Due to
time constraints, the commissioners will review and discuss further at a later
time. Dave Price said the parking lot that was going to be a People Plaza may
just be rented per event or as needed. He will talk to the Board of Education and
make sure this is an option.
Adjournment
There being no additional business, a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:30 p.m.
was made by Angela Hurlock, seconded by Alex J. Alemis. Motion carried.
Next Regular Scheduled Meeting – February 28, 2019 at 2:00 p.m.

South Chicago Parents and Friends, Inc. is accredited by the Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF).

 