COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
JANUARY 25, 2019

 

Employee Recognition

Bridgett Carter, senior public health educator, received a Martin Luther King Day Spirit of Excellence Award from
the Southland Ministerial Health Network for her work in the community and for her outstanding leadership and service
as it relates to education regarding chronic diseases in Chicago and its surrounding suburbs. The Southland Ministerial
Health Network works to address the health disparities in Chicago's southland'and to ensure the health and vitality of

members of their communities and congregations.

Victor Medina, ambulatory clinic manager and Dr. Yolanda Escalona worked together to operationalize the new
Arlington Heights Health Center that opened January 14. They were willing to jump in and perform any task needed,
including acting as guides and assisting with patient access.

Dr. Becky Roberts has retired after 28 years of service in the Stroger Hospital emergency medicine department and 21
years as the chair of the research division.- She is a nationally recognized expert on analyzing the costs of healthcare. Dr.
Roberts worked tirelessly for the good of the patients in CCH often seen giving money, food and clothes to patients in
need so they can afford their medications and transportation to their home or clinic. Through her tenure she helped
secure nearly $7 million in grant funding. Dr. Roberts is also a professor in the Rush University School of Medicine.

Activities and Announcements
0 Food As Medicine Update

Through January CCH's Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has
resulted in 152 visits to 12 CCH health centers -Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove, Englewood,
Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Prieto, Robbins, Woodlawn, and Provident/Sengstacke. The move to a
permanent location for the Arlington Heights Health Center has delayed the staff training and a start date for
the Fresh Truck, which is now expected to take place by the end of (11 of 2019.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 20,263
individuals, representing 66,734 household members, totaling more than 420,000 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health

center visit.

CCH concluded our annual holiday food drive to support our partnership with Greater Chicago Food Depository.
CCH raised $13,837 which will help GCFD provide movethan 41,500 meals for food insecure Cook County

residents.

CCH Fresh Markets have moved indoors for the winter. The Fresh Market schedule is listed below, note
updated dates and times:

0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, Qam-me

0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm

0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am?2pm

Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonprofit that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food
system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with
Experimental Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match program to offer SNAP users with a match on all purchases at
Fresh Markets, up to SZO/market/week.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

0 Plans are underway for a series of CCH Research and Innovation Summits in 2019. The summits will be held in
the conference center of the Professional Building and provide CCH an opportunity to share with external
stakeholders our efforts and plans in these important area and host an action planning session to gather
feedback and encourage continued collaboration. lnvitees will include potential funders, civic and community
leaders, health partners, elected officials and others.

Feb 20, 1pm-4pm Opioid Epidemic May ?22, 1pm?4pm Housing
September 18, 1pm-4pm Justice Involved December 18, 1pm-4pm TBD

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.6, 5.4, 6.2, 6.3

Stroger Hospital has partnered with the Veteran's Administration to provide acupuncture to veterans with
chronic pain. Initial results and relief for our veterans are promising.

- The CCH Fleet provided its 100,000 ride this month. Patient reviews are largely positive and the show rate for
patients using the fleet is approximately 95%.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.2, 1.4, 2.4, 6.3
0 Final staff compliance with the CCH Influenza Policy was 89%.
IMPACT Objectives 1.1., 7.5

0 Facilities Updates

0 The new Arlington Heights clinic opened on January 14, 2019. The new health center is staffed with
bilingual professionals and has 24 exam rooms, six dental suites, WIC, mammography and behavioral
health services. Plans for an official ribbon cutting are underway. See attached photos.

0 The outpatient pharmacy at Provident Hospital has been relocated to the second floor to better
accommodate space and patient needs.

0 Construction is underway for the new outpatient dialysis center at Provident.

The team is completing final plans to relocate services currently provide at Cicero, Logan Square and
Oak Forest to North Riverside, Hanson Park and Blue Island respectively.

0 The new parking lot north of Stroger Hospital has been activated to serve as the holding lot for patient
valet parking for Stroger Hospital and the new Professional Building.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.2, 1.4

(Select materials and media clips attached)

2 Page





Legislative Update

Local
0

State

Federal

At the January 24th Cook County Board meeting Commissioners approved the appointment of Michael Koetting
to the Cook County Health Board of Directors. Mr. Koetting is a healthcare and strategic planning consultant as
well as an adjunct member of faculty. From 2010-2015 he served as Deputy Director for Planning and
Reform Implementation for the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services.

Members of the 1015t Illinois General Assembly were sworn in on January 9. The House and Senate return to
Springfield on January 29. Nearly 1,000 bills and resolutions have already been filed.

On January 14, Illinois Executive Branch officers were sworn in, including JB Pritzker, Illinois? 43rd Governor. You
can read Governor Pritzker?s full inaugural address here.

Theresa Eagleson has been named by Governor Pritzker to serve as the new Director of the Illinois Department
of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS). Ms. Eagleson currently serves as the Executive Director of the Office of
Medicaid Innovation at the University of Illinois, and had previously worked at HFS in various leadership
positions. The appointment requires Senate confirmation.

Governor Pritzker announced that Sol Flores would be joining his administration as Deputy Governor; she will
join Christian Mitchell, Jesse Ruiz, and Dan Hynes in this position. Deputy Governor Flores will oversee work
related to health and human services. Ms. Flores is the founding Executive Director of La Casa Norte, a
nonprofit serving homeless youth, adults, and families. A full list of administration staff and agency directors

named to date can be found online.

New state rules concerning the Lead Poisoning and Prevention Act were approved by the Joint Committee on
Administrative Rules (JCAR). The rules lower the blood lead level from 10 micrograms/deciliter (ug/dL) to 5
ug/dL which will allow more children to receive public health interventions and aligns with the Center for
Disease Control and Prevention?s recommended levels. This rule change will allow children with blood lead
levels at or above 5 ug/dL to receive a home visit from a public health nurse and, as resources allow, a public
health environmental inspection. The rule also increases enforcement authority for violations of the Lead
Poisoning Prevention Act and Code, including of property owners who fail to remediate properties.

 

An ordinance will soon be introduced to the Cook County Board of Commissioners that will align lead
prevention'and mitigation activities with state law and an existing Chicago city ordinance, as well as implement a
new administrative process to bring non-compliant property owners to a hearing for resolution of their

mitigation notices.

The first session of the 116th Congress was gaveled in on January 3, two weeks into what is now the longest
lapse in appropriations in US. history. Seven major federal agencies with about one fourth of the federal
workforce are "shut down,? with essential personnel working without pay and most employees furloughed.
Major legislation is not moving until a deal is concluded and the government reopens.

Texas v. United States: As expected, on January 3, sixteen Democratic states (including Illinois) and the District
of Columbia, appealed the decision of the District Court for the Northern District of Texas ruling the Affordable
Care Act (ACA) unconstitutional. The intervener?defendants argue the District Court ignored the intent of
Congress by ruling that eliminating the ACA's individual mandate penalty in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
invalidated the entire law. They argue that Congress left the remaining core features of the law intact, including
3 a 

the federal subsidies and Medicaid expansion, undermining the judge?s reasoning that Congress intended the
law to be invalidated. At the same time the new Democratic House majority moved to intervene in the case to
defend the ACA. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals has stayed the appeal at the request of the US. Department
ofJustice (DOJ), until ten days after the shutdown ends. The District Court proceeding on the remaining claims
before it are also on hold pending appeal.

While many legal believe the Fifth Circuit will overturn the District Court on the merits, the case could
ultimately end up before the U.S. Supreme Court.

a Medicaid: While divided government means that wholesale restructuring of the Medicaid program is off the
table for now, efforts are taking shape which could profoundly influence the shape the future of the program.
Most immediately, the delay in the ACA cuts to Medicaid DSH is set to expire on September 30 the end of FY
2019.

Last year the provision to delay the scheduled cut was enacted as part of the Bi-Partisan Budget Act of 2018
which passed in February and lifted the discretionary sequestration budget caps imposed by the Budget Control
Act of 2011. These caps will need to be lifted again for Congress to conduct its budget and appropriations work
for FY 2021, but all is on hold while the stalemate over FY 2020 funding drags on.

At the same time some on Capitol Hill have expressed an appetite for revising the allocation of Medicaid DSH
funding to the states. Senator Marco Rubio (Ft?Fla.) has introduced legislation which would base the allocation
on the percentage of those in poverty a state has, scrapping the current twenty-year?old formula. Proposals
such as this which create clear winners and losers are very difficult to move through Congress.

Conversations about new health system reforms are also gaining steam. Democrats, including a number of 2020
contenders, are debating various forms of "Medicare for All? (M4A) or ?Medicare for More,? while a growing
number of Democratic states are contemplating Medicaid buy-in proposals to expand coverage. Meanwhile,
some Republican states are expanding Medicaid and others are seeking, and gaining approval for work
requirement waivers from CMS. Democratic leaders generally continue to focus on shoring up the ACA and
opposing the Administration?s moves to weaken consumer protections and provide options outside the ACA
structure. It is worth noting that health insurance industry groups are gearing up to oppose M4A as attention
begins to turn toward the 2020 elections.

0 Administrative Action: In mid-January reports emerged that CMS is looking for ways to use its waiver
authorities under Medicaid to offer states greater flexibility to administer their programs in exchange for
accepting a "block grant.? Changing Medicaid from an eligibility-based entitlement program to a block grant for
states has long been a conservative policy objective. Details of the plans have not been made public.

On January 18, CMS proposed its Notice of Benefit and Payment Parameters for ACA plans in 2020. Among the
proposals, the administration supports legislation to restore cost sharing subsidy (CSR) payments that insurers
give to low income enrollees. They propose ending "silver loading,? where insurers raise premiums for "silver"
level plans in order to compensate for the loss of CSRs and invite comments on how to accomplish this. They
also propose lifting the income formula caps on out of pocket spending.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for at both the State and Federal level.

4 Page

I

Community Outreach

February 1

February 1

February 1

February 2

February 6

February 8

February 9

February 12

and CountyCare promotion at the Go Red for Women's Heart Health Fair sponsored by
the Friend Family Health Center at their facility located at 800 E. 55th Street in Chicago. This
event is being held in honor of Women's Heart Health month and the health fair will have
speakers, a massage therapist, screenings for blood pressure, glucose and HIV.

and CountyCare promotion at the 2019 National Wear Red Day Health Wellness Fair,
which is hosted by City Colleges of Chicago's Wright College/Humboldt Park Vocational Center
at the Humboldt Park campus located at 1645 N. California Street in Chicago. City Colleges and
its campuses are doing a concerted effort to bring more resources to its students and their
families and want to make sure that they remain healthy and have access to insurance options.
The Austin CDC HIV testing team will perform screenings at this event.

and CountyCare promotion at the 2019 National Wear Red Day Health Wellness Fair,
which is hosted by City Colleges of Chicago's Wright College at the northwest campus located at
4300 North Narraganset Avenue in Chicago. City Colleges and its campuses are doing a
concerted effort to bring more resources to its students and their families and want to make
sure that they remain healthy and have access to insurance options. The CORE HIV testing team

will perform screenings at this event.

and CountyCare presentation at the Food Giveaway Health Fair sponsored by
Northwestern Memorial Healthcare and Kelly Hall YMCA at the YMCA located at 824 N. Hamlin
Avenue in Chicago. The event will feature a health fair where participants will be able to receive
free health screenings, educational material and numerous community resources.

and CountyCare promotion at Malcolm College Service Days, which is hosted by the
Wellness Center of Malcolm College at the school located at 1900 W. Jackson Blvd. in
Chicago. This event for the students and community will provides services such as health
insurance enrollment, counseling, mental health support services and nutrition education, to

name a few.

and CountyCare promotion at the Maternal Wellness: Giving Babies the Best Start
Resource Fair, which is hosted by SGA Youth Family Services at the UIC Forum located at 725
W. Roosevelt Road in Chicago. This fair will provide parents of young children with early
childhood development guidance, parenting tips and safety assessments and well as
encouragement to visit health professionals so that the children grow healthy.

and CountyCare promotion at the 2019 Winter Resource Fair, which is hosted by
Congressman Rush, CEDA, Nicor 8: Peoples Gas at the Gary Comer Youth Center
located at 7200 S. Ingleside Avenue in Chicago. While the focus of this event is to help people
apply for assistance for utilities, a wide variety of resource providers are included to make sure
that families have access to all types of resources available to them.

and CountyCare promotion at City Colleges of Chicago's Olive Harvey College Free
Service Days, which is hosted by the Wellness Center of Olive Harvey College at the main

campus, located at 10001 S. Woodlawn Avenue in Chicago. This event for the students and
community will provides services such as health insurance enrollment, counseling, mental

health support services and nutrition education, to name a few.

5 p15; 

February 13 CCH HS and CountyCare promotion at the Healthy Heart Program sponsored by the Cicero
Health Department at the Cicero Community Center located at 2250 S. 49th Avenue in Cicero.
Every year Cicero President Larry Dominick and the Board of Trustees offer the annual Healthy
Heart Program were numerous screenings are offered including, cholesterol, glucose, blood
pressure, oximetry, heights/weight/BMI, hemoglobin and more. Staff from the Cicero Health
Center will attend to promote their services to attendees.

February 13 and CountyCare promotion at City Colleges of Chicago's Olive Harvey College/South
Chicago Learning Center Free Service Days, which is hosted by the Wellness Center of South
Chicago Learning Center at the satellite campus, located at 3055 E. 92nd Street in Chicago. This
event for the students and community will provides services such as health insurance
enrollment, counseling, mental health support services and nutrition education, to name a few.

February 14 promotion at Thornton Fractional North High School Parent Teacher Conference and
Community Resource Fair hosted by the Thornton Fractional High School at the District 215 TF
North High School located at 755 Pulaski Road in Calumet City.

February 15 and CountyCare promotion at the 14th Annual Chicago Food Policy Summit and
Resource Fair, which is hosted by Chicago Food Policy Action Council at the South Shore
Cultural Center located at 7059 S. South Shore Drive in Chicago. The Summit will consist of
workshops, speakers, hand-on activities, food demos, a marketplace of resources and vendors,
and a Food Business Clinic. This is Fair will not provide food items to people but rather guide
resources available to families to ensure their healthy living, part of which includes ensuring that
people have insurance to be healthy and visit doctors.

February 16 and CountyCare promotion at the Christian Women's Conference, which is hosted by
Sinai Health Ministries at the Shiloh Baptist Church located at 9211 S. Justine Avenue in
Chicago.

February 22 and CountyCare promotion at the Health and Safety Fair sponsored by the Palatine High

School, Palatine's Promise and Students Against Destructive Decisions at the Palatine High
School located at 1111 N. Rohlwing Road in Palatine. Staff from the Arlington Heights Health
Center will attend to do screenings and to promote their services at the new facility. This event
attracts a large number of students looking to learn about safe and healthy lifestyles.

February 24 and CountyCare promotion at the St. Charles Borromeo Parish and Westlake Hospital
Resource and Wellness Fair which will take place at the parish located at 1637 N. 37th Avenue
in Melrose Park.

February 27 and CountyCare promotion at the READI Chicago's Men's Wellness Fair which will take
place at Heartland Alliance located at 208 S. LaSalle Street in Chicago. The fair will provide
information on health and other resources to the formerly incarcerated better their lives.

The Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of February include the following ACHN Health Centers.
0 February 7 ?Austin Health Center - 4800 W. Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL 60651
February 5 - Cicero Health Center 5912 W. Cermak Road, Cicero, IL 60804
February 19 - Robbins Health Center - 13450 S. Kedzie Avenue, Robbins, IL 60472
February 21 Englewood Health Center - 1135 W. 69th Street, Chicago, IL 60621
February 21 Near South Health Center 3525 S. Michigan, Chicago, IL 60653
February 26 Cottage Grove Health Center - 1645 Cottage Grove Avenue, Ford Heights, IL 60411

6 Page

