 

COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

.IOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
FEBRUARY 27, 2019

Employee Recognition

Leticia Reyes-Nash, Natalie Hallinger and Kelsey Moore planned Cook County Health's first Research and Innovation
Summit. The Summit brought together key stakeholders from across the city, county and state to talk about what Cook
County Health is doing to address the opioid epidemic impacting our communities and their health. This gathering
provided an opportunity to learn about Cook County Health?s Substance Use Disorder programs, while also providing a
space for people to engage and collaborate to develop actionable plans to address this critical issue. See related

information below.

Activities and Announcements

The first CCH Research and Innovation Summit was held on February 20 on the topic of Opioids. More than 120
individuals attended the event which featured Toni Preckwinkle, President, Cook County Board of
Commissioners; Dr. Jay Shannon, CEO, Cook County Health; Patience Roberts, a CCH patient in recovery; Dr.
Steven Aks, Department of Emergency Medicine, Cook County Health; Dr. Eimad Zakariya, Cook County Medical
Examiner; Dr. William Trick, Collaborative Research Unit, Department of Medicine, Cook County Health; Dr. Keiki
Himani, Collaborative Research Unit, Department of Medicine, Cook County Health; Dr. .luleigh Nowinski
Konchak, Attending Physician, Department of Family and Community Medicine, Cook County Health; Dr. Connie
Mennella, Chair, Correctional Health, Cook County Health; Dr. Mark Loafman, Chair, Family Medicine, Cook
County Health; Christine Newton, Recovery Coach, Cook County Health; Dr. Rashad Saffir, CEO, Bobby Wright
Comprehensive Behavioral Health Center; and Hanna Kite, Regional Health Officer, Cook County Health
Department. CCH distributed a white paper at the 

The summits provide CCH an opportunity to share with external stakeholders our efforts and plans in important
areas and host action planning sessions to gather feedback and encourage continued collaboration. The next

Summit will be held on May 22 on the topic of housing.

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.6, 5.4, 6.2, 6.3

On Sunday, February 25, Dr. Jay Shannon, CEO, CCH was honored by Congressman Danny Davis at the 7th
District Black History Month Celebration. Congressman Davis presented Dr. Shannon and Stroger Hospital with
the 2019 History Maker Award, the Dr. Daniel Hale Williams Award. Dr. Williams was an African-American
physician who founded Provident HOSpital in 1891 and is credited with performing the first successful heart

surgery in the US.

Food As Medicine Update

Through February 7, CCH's Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD) has
resulted in 163 visits to 12 CCH health centers Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove, Englewood,
Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Prieto, Robbins, Woodlawn, and Provident/Sengstacke.

The inaugural Fresh Truck visit to new Arlington Heights Health Center will take place on March 21. This is
the last of community health centers to schedule Fresh Truck distributions. Collectively, the Fresh Truck
distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 21,107 individuals, representing
69,600 household members, totaling more than 440,000 pounds of fresh produce. Most of the individuals
bene?ting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a CCH health center visit.

The Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of March include the following CCH Health Centers:
March 7 Prieto Health Center 2424 S. Pulaski Road, Chicago
March 12 Provident Hospital/Sengstacke Health Center - 500 W. 51St Street, Chicago
March 19 Woodlawn Health Center - 6337 S. Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago
March 15 CORE Center - 2020 W. Harrison Street, Chicago
March 21 Arlington Heights Health Center 3250 N. Arlington Heights Rd., Arlington Heights
March 26 Logan Square Health Center 2840 W. Fullerton Avenue, Chicago
March 28 Oak Forest Health Center 15900 S. Cicero Ave. Oak Forest

CCH Fresh Markets have moved indoors for the winter. Fresh prbduce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a
nonprofit that seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food system through education, entrepreneurship, and
access to healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with Experimental Station?s Link Up Illinois Link Match
program to offer SNAP users a match on all purchases at CCH Fresh Markets, up to $20/market/week.

The Fresh Market schedule includes:
0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm
0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am?3pm
0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

(Select materials and media clips attached)

2 Page

Legislative Update

State

More than 6,200 bills and resolutions have been ?led in the House and Senate.
Governor Pritzker delivered his first budget address on February 20.

The Governor spoke the about the continued challenges presented by Illinois? structural deficit and the need to
implement a ?fair tax?, or a graduated income tax, where higher earners would pay more, as opposed to the
flat income tax system in place today.

For the state ?scal year 2020 budget, Pritzker proposed $1.18 in new revenues including an assessment on
health insurers, which includes Medicaid managed care plans; regulating recreational marijuana; an expanded
tax on video gaming and regulating Sports betting; a new e-cigarette tax as well as increasing the existing
cigarette tax and capping the retailer?s discbunt; a new plastic bag tax; and phasing out the private school

scholarship credit.

The proposed budget is mostly a maintenance budget, but includes modest increases to early

childhood education, public universities and community colleges, Monetary Award Program (MAP) and
Aspirational Institutional Match Helping Illinois Grow Higher Education (AIM HIGH) college financial assistance
and scholarship programs, as well as increasing eligibility for the child care assistance program.

At the health and human services agency budget brie?ngs, the Department of Health and Family Services (HFS)
shared that their FY2020 budget assumes that more than 75% of Medicaid bene?ciaries statewide will be in
managed care, includes funding for new positions to support behavioral health, and that Integrated Health
Homes (IHHs) will start in the new ?scal year, specific date TBA.

The Illinois Department of Human Services? (DHS) budget includes additional funding for expanded child care
assistance eligibility (to 200% FPL), and an additional to offset the increased costs to vendors due to the

state minimum wage increase.

The Illinois Department of Public Health?s (IDPH) budget includes an additional to address childhood lead
poisoning, in continued capital funding to remove sources of lead exposure from homes of children with
elevated blood lead levels, and flat funding of the local health protection grants, which fund and other

state-certi?ed local health departments.

More details about the Governor? 5 proposed FY2020 budget can be found on the State's Office of Budget and
Management website 

Governor Pritzker announced that Ramon Gardenhire will serve as the Governor?s Deputy Chief of Staff for
Policy. Ramon most recently worked for the AIDS Foundation of Chicago as the vice president of policy.

Dr. Ngoze Ezike has been appointed to serve as the Director of the Illinois Department of Public Health. Dr. Ezike
is a board?certified internist and pediatrician who has practiced at CCH for more than 15 years. She most
recently served as an attending physician at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center. Dr. Ezike?s appointment

requires Senate confirmation.
Grace Hou has been appointed to serve as the Secretary of the Illinois Department of Human Services (DHS).

DHS administers a number of public benefits programs, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program (SNAP), the Women, Infants, and Children Program (WIC), as well as cash assistance. Ms. Hou currently

3 Page

Federal

serves as President of Woods Fund Chicago and previously served as an Assistant Secretary at DHS from 2003
through 2012. Her appointment requires Senate confirmation.

On February 19, Governor Pritzker signed legislation that will increase the state?s minimum wage to $15/hour by
January 1, 2025. The legislation passed with partisan support. Senate Majority Leader Kimberly Lightford and
Representative Will Guzzarcli led this effort in their respective chambers. An overview of federal, state, and local
minimum wages follows:

0 The federal minimum wage is $7.25/hour and was last increased in 2009.

0 Illinois? current minimum wage is $8.25/hour and was last increased in 2010.
The minimum wage in Chicago is $12/hour (tipped employees earn This will increase to
SIS/hour on July 1, 2019.

The minimum wage in suburban Cook County is $11/hour (tipped employees earn This will
increase to SlZ/hour starting July 1, 2019 and to $13/hour on July 1, 2020. Suburban Cook County
municipalities may opt out of adopting the minimum wage increases, and many have done 50.

Governor Pritzker and Lt. Governor Juliana Stratton published 11 transition reports that outline
recommendations on a variety of subjects. Transition committee members and the full reports, including the
Healthy Children and Families report (which CCH Board of Director David Ernesto Munar and former CCH Deputy
CEO for Finance and Strategy Doug Elwell contributed to), can be viewed online -
.

For the last month, Washington has been consumed with the longest ever lapse in appropriations, which
resulted in the longest-ever partial government shutdown. From December 22, 2018 to January 25, 2019, nine
cabinet agencies, the Executive Office of the President, the Federal Judiciary and most independent agencies
were closed, except for essential or emergency workers, over an impasse on funding for a southern border wall.
On January 25, the President and Congress agreed to a three-week continuing resolution - a stop-gap funding
measure to keep the affected agencies operating at the previous year?s funding levels. The House and Senate
then approved a compromise measure to fund the affected agencies, which the President signed on February 14
despite being unsatisfied with the level of funding for the wall. The next day the President declared a national
emergency in order to redirect funds to the wall project.

As Congress emerges from shutdown crisis mode and the committees have been populated with new leaders
and members, legislative and oversight work has begun.

State of the Union AIDS Initiative On February 5, the President addressed a joint session of Congress on the
State of the Union. The speech, usually held in January, had been delayed due to the shutdown. Significantly, the
President announced an ambitious initiative to end the epidemic in the United States by 2030. The
plan aims to cut the infection rate by 75 percent in five years and 90 percent in the next 10 years. The plan
promises to direct new resources to 48 counties; Washington, San Juan, Puerto Rico and seven largely
southern states which account for most new infections. Cook County is one of the 48 counties on the target list.

If approved by Congress, the plan would fund increasing investments in geographic hotspots through existing
programs, such as the Ryan White Program, and a new program through community health centers
that would provide to people with the highest risk of infection. It would also support using data to identify
where HIV is spreading the fastest in order to guide prevention, care and treatment actions at the local level.
Finally, it would also fund the creation of a local HIV "HealthForce" in the targeted communities.

Additional details of the proposal are expected in the President?s FY 2020 budget request.

4(Page

a Budget and Appropriations Due to the delay finishing the FY 2019 appropriations bills, the FY 2020 cycle is also
getting off to a slow start. The President usually sends the budget request for the next ?scal year to Congress in
the ?rst week in February. This year the White House has indicated that it will come in two parts, with the
President?s budget message and top priorities going out in the second week of March and the detailed proposals
for each agency with the budget tables and justifications going out a week or so later. At least some of this delay
can be attributed to the shutdown, which affected the White House Office Of Management and Budget, as well

as budget staff in the shuttered agencies.

With the House and Senate divided along party lines, it is hard to see how they would advance a budget
resolution to guide the FY 2020 appropriations process, but they could avoid the need to do so by adopting
legislation to lift the statutory caps on discretionary spending which were imposed by the Budget Control Act of
2011. Without action to lift those caps, spending across the defense and non-defense discretionary accounts
would cut by more than 10 percent, an outcome that neither party wants. The operative principle in these deals
over the past several years has been parity for defense and non-defense, which the parties are likely to continue
to adhere to. Last year, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 was the vehicle to lift the caps as well as to m0ve
some other priority items, including a delay of the cuts to Medicaid DSH imposed by the ACA.

In addition to the need to agree to FY 2020 spending levels, Congress will need to take action to raise the debt
ceiling. The current ceiling expires on March 1. Debates over the debt ceiling have often been opportunities for
brinksmanship, although last year's budget deal included the provision to raise it until March 1.

a Texas v. United States On February 14, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals granted the US. House of
Representatives? request to intervene in the lawsuit to defend the ACA. The Fifth Circuit also allowed four
additional states Colorado, Iowa, Michigan and Nevada to join the other Democratic states (including Illinois)
defending the health law. The Circuit Court denied the parties? request to expedite proceedings to July, ensuring
that uncertainty over the constitutionality of the law will carry well into the 2020 election campaign season.
While many legal believe the Fifth Circuit wiil overturn the District Court on the merits, the case is likely

to end up before the US. Supreme Court.

0 Medicaid In addition to efforts to delay the statutory Medicaid DSH cuts, we are monitoring a number of
Medicaid actions in the states.

0 On February 4, the Idaho Supreme Court upheld the state?s Medicaid expansion, which was approved by 61
percent of the voters in a statewide ballot initiative. This clears the way for the state to implement the ACA

expansion in Idaho.

0 On February 11, the Governor of Utah signed a bill which would replace the full ACA Medicaid expansion
which had been approved by voters in the Novemberelection with a partial expansion, covering only those
up to 100 percent of the federal poverty limit. If CMS does not grant the state the waiver for a partial
expansion, the legislation triggers an automatic-full expansion, but with work requirements. CMS has not to

date approved a partial expansion under the ACA.

The Nebraska legislature is currently debating how to fund the expansion, which was also approved by the
state?s voters in November.

0 The Governor of Georgia has signaled that he would support a partial expansion with some conditions.

Senator Doug Jones (D-Ala.) and Representative Terry Sewell (D-Ala.) have both introduced legislation to entice the
remaining non-expansion states into the expansion by offering them the same enhanced federal match that was in

the ACA for the first three years of expansion.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for CCH at both the State and Federal level.

5 P?age

Community Outreach

March 4

March 5

March 6

March 6

March 7

March 13

March 16

March 18

March 18

March 22

March 23

Cook County Health promotion at the Marillac St. Vincent Family Services Marillac Social Center
Pantry and Resource Fair, which is sponsored by the Marillac Social Center and takes place at the Center
located at 212 S. Francisco in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at LEARN Charter School's Community Health Fair,
which will take place at the Fogolia Family Youth Center located at 2859 W. Jackson Beulevard in
Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Malcolm College Service Days, which is hosted by
the Wellness Center of Malcolm College and will take place at the school located at 1900 W. Jackson
Boulevard in Chicago. This event for the students and community will provide services such as health
insurance enrollment, counseling, mental health support services and nutrition education, to name a few.
The testing team from the Austin Health Center CBC will do testing at this event.

Cook County Health promotion at the Chicago Department of Aviation's Concessions Career Fair, which
will take place at Kelvyn Park located at 4438 W. Wrightwood Avenue in Chicago. The event will feature
representatives from companies looking to hire individuals to work at O'Hare International Airport in the
following areas: airlines, cargo, concessions, construction, hospitality, security and more. In addition,
representatives from the various community organizations will provide available health, social and
different community resources for job seekers.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Prairie State College?s Veterans Resource Fair,
which will take place at the school located at 202 S. Halsted Street in Chicago Heights. This annual event
brings resources to all students and veterans attending the college.

Cook County Health promotion at the Marillac St. Vincent Family Services Marillac Social Center
Pantry and Resource Fair, which is sponsored by the Marillac Social Center and takes place at the Center
located at 212 S. Francisco in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Our Lady Gate of Heaven Health Fair, which is
sponsored by Sin?ai Health Ministries and which will take place at the church located at 2338 E. 99th
Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at TEECH Foundation Resource Fair, which is hosted by
the Foundation at the Foglia Center located at 1750 W. 103rd Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Alderman Osterman and the 48th Ward's 2019
Annual Senior Resource Fair, which will take place at the Broadway Armory Park located at 5917 N.
Broadway in Chicago.

Cook County Heaith and CountyCare promotion at the St. Xavier University Health Fair, which will take
place at the University?s Shannon Center located at 3700 W. 103rd Street in Chicago. The 15th Annual
Health Fair brings resources to students, faculty and community residents.

1'
Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Ebenezer Christian Reformed Church's First

Annual Health Resource Fair, which is hosted by Sinai Health Ministries at the church located at 1300
5. Harvey in Berwyn.

6 Page

1



March 23

March 26

March 27

March 27

March 23

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the State Representative Theresa Mah's 3rd Annual
Health Fair, which will take place at Ping Torn Memorial Park located at 1700.5. Wentworth Avenue in

Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at City Colleges of Chicago's Olive Harvey College Free
Service Days, which is hosted by the Wellness Center of Olive Harvey College at the main campus,
located at 10001 S. Woodlawn Avenue in Chicago. This event for the students and community will
provide services such as health insurance enrollment, counseling, mental health support services and
nutrition education, to name a few.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at City Colleges of Chicago's Olive Harvey College/South
Chicago Learning Center Free Service Days, which is hosted by the Wellness Center of South Chicago
Learning Center at the satellite campus, located at 3055 E. 92nd Street in Chicago. This event for the
students and community will provide services such as health insurance enrollment, counseling, mental
health support services and nutrition education, to name a few.

Cook County Health promotion at the Hanover Township?s 7th Annual Job Fair, which will take place at
the Hanover Township Senior Center located at 40 5. Route 59 in Bartlett. The event is hosted by Hanover
Township, State Representative Fred Crespo, Illinois Department of Employment Security (IDES) and

Work Net.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Bellwood Early Childhood Family Resource Expo,
which is hosted by Bellwood School District 88 and will take place at Lincoln Elementary located at 3420

Jackson Street in Bellwood.

7 Page

