 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners

Minutes of the Finance Committee

Tuesday, February 19, 2019 9:30 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE

Present: Anaya, Britton, Daley, Degnen, Gainer, Lowry, Miller, Moore. Morrison, Morrison,
Silvestri. Sims and Suffredin (13)

Absent: Arroyo, Deer, Johnson and Tobolski (4)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

1. Mark 

Motion for Acting Chair

A motion was made by Commissioner LARRY SUFFREDIN, seconded by Commissioner
PETER N. SILVESTRI, that Chairman Daley was appointed acting chairman.. The motion
carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Anaya, Britton, Daley, Degnen. Gainer, Lowry, Miller, Moore, Morrison, Morrison,
Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (l3)

Absent: Arroyo, Deer, Johnson and Tobolski (4)
19'0170

COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval ofthc minutes from the meeting of 1f22f2019

Finance Committee Committee Report - Draft February I 9, 2019

 

for the Year 2019."

Section 2. That the Committee on Finance of the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County Illinois has considered the subject of the Annual Tax Levy for the year 2019 and
the several sums necessary to be levied to meet the needs and requirements of the Forest Preserve
District of Cook County for said year and has recommended that this ordinance for the levy of taxes be
adopted.

Section 3. That the Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, heretofore having
approved and adopted the Annual Appropriation Ordinance for the Forest Preserve District of Cook
County for the year commencing January 1, 2019 at its meeting held November 15, 2018, which ordinance
was published by authority of said Board as provided by law and which portion of said Appropriation
Ordinance pertaining to Fund and Departmental Appropriations (together with marginal columns captioned
Payable from the Tax Levy? and ?Payable from sources other than the Tax Levy? where applicable) is
set forth hereinafter.

Section 4. That the sum of Ninety Seven Million, Ninety Seven Thousand, Seven Hundred and Sixteen
Dollars and No Cents being the sum of Appropriations heretofore legally made which are
to be paid from the collection of the Annual Tax Levy of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County,
Illinois for the Levy Year 2019 AD. for the corporate purposes, for the construction of improvements and
development of the forests and lands, for payment for principal and interest on bonded debt, for payment
for contributions to Employees? Annuity and Benefit Fund, and for the payment of amounts to the Chicago
Zoological Society and the Chicago l-lorticultural Society, all as adopted by the Board of Commissioners 01
the Forest Preserve District of Cook County at its meeting held November 15, 2018 and published by the
authority of said Board according to law, is hereby levied on all the taxable property within said Forest
Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois for the Levy Year 2019 being composed of the specific amounts
for the various purposes herein before named.

Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois

ANNUAL TAX LEVY ORDINANCE
FOR THE YEAR COMMENCING JANUARY 1, 2019

SUMMARY OF APPROPRIATIONS AND SOURCES THEREOF
ALL FUNDS

Section 5. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval.

Fund Amount of Payable From Payable
Appropriation The Tax Levy FromSources Other
Than The Tax Levy
Corporate 61,712,160 51,612.15 10,099.985

Page 3 of 

Finance Committee Committee Report Draft Il?ebrmujl I 9, 2019

 

Report Period: Ill/2018 - 12/31i2018
Summary: Detailed Fund Analysis Revenue and Expense Report for December 2018.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to
receive and ?led 19-0152. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Anaya. Britton. Daley. Degnen. Gainer. Lowry, Miller. Moore. Morrison. Morrison.
Silvestri. Sims and Suffredin (l3)

Absent: Arroyo. Deer. Johnson and Tobolski (4)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner SCOTT R. BRITTON. seconded by Commissioner
KEVIN B. MORRISON to adjourn. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Anaya. Britton, Daley. chnen. Gainer. Lowry. Miller. Moore. Morrison, Morrison.
Silvestri. Sims and Suffrediu (l3)

Absent: Arroyo. Deer. Johnson and Tobolski (4)

Respectfully submitted.

fez/f fag? 75- 2g?

{?air-man Secretary

 

 

 

A Video recording of this meeting is available at cook?countv.Icuistarcom.

Page 5 of 5

