Commissioners

Marisei A. Hernandez. Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner

Lance Gough, Executive Director

Board of Hleciioo CommissiOQers

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of the ReguIarBoard Meeting
November 13,2018,9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street,8th Floor Conference Room,Chicago, Illinois 60602

Board Members:

Marisei A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive absent
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Amanda Robledo, Purchasing
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Trupti Patel
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Heiene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
Carol Maher

C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition

Bebe Novich, Equip for Equality
JoAnn Becker

Adam L. Scheffler, Mack and Associates

I.

Call to Order: The Chairwoman called the meeting to order at 9:36 a.m.

II.

Roll Call all present

III.

Consideration of Agenda: Commissioner Kresse moved to defer New business item

"A"[Approval of outside counsel to serve as electoral board hearing officers in
relation to the February 26, 2019, municipal general election] to another meeting.
Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous vote
of the Board.
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 1.312.269,7900•fax 1.312.263.3649•TTY 1.312.269.0027

chicagoelections.com • email: cboe@chicagoelections.net

 Regular Board Meeting - November 13,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

IV.

Approval of Minutes
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 25,2018. Commissioner

Swain moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September
25, 2018. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed and the
Minutes were approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.

V.

Executive Director's Report(Lance Gough)

Executive Director Lance Gough reported:

• Still counting November election ballots, but getting ready for mayoral elections

• We are revisiting Early Voting(EV)sites. Due to long lines at some locations, we may add
more EV sites, but not necessarily more equipment. Adding more equipment to a site
that's limited in space isn't going to help; we need more sites.
• There are difficulties with getting locations for EV, e.g., it is hard to get a commitmentfor
18 days with voting up until 7:00 at night. Mr. Gough has a listof a few potential EV sites
that he's going to have looked into in the next few weeks.

• Communications Director Jim Allen stated that the turn-out for EV was nearly as high as
2008 Presidential election. The delay in voting was mostly due to in check-in stations and
voting space.Some EV sites had up to 3-4 hour-long lines. Part of it is part due to the
large ballots.

• Discussion was had regarding where voters vote early, near their home or near

theiroffice. Most vote at their home ward Early Voting site, many at the Supersite. We
may need to better advertise that a voter may go to any Early Voting Site.
• We had 82 percent return on Vote By Mail, that's the highest that M r. Gough
remembers. One problem we are still having and need to address with the Post Offic eis
that many of the returns were not postmarked. Others did arrive a late.

• We are going to have a debriefing in about a week. We are going to do some staff
reassignment.

• The first day of fillng for the 2019 Municipal General Election is November 19*^ We are

going to have a walk through on the lower level(pedway)for the 19th. We are setting up
for the filings this weekend.

Chairwoman Hernandez: There were a lot of challenges that we faced in this election. Election

Day was pretty busy, normally we would see a dip midday, but it was consistent throughout this
Election Day. In spite of the issues we had, we managed to bring in the results on time with

minimal Issues. Our staff worked very hard: 7 days a week and 18 hours a day,130+ core staff.
They are dedicated.The Chairwoman salutes them for a job well done in spite of the issues we

may have had. Thanks to Mr. Gough for guiding them, we had 80% reported before 11:00 p.m.
Mr. Gough added that last year 16 people retired, this is their replacements'first election; the
Mayoral election will run much smoother.

Commissioner Kresse stated that Mr. Gough and the staff did a phenomenal Job.

Page 2 of6

 Regular Board Meeting - November 13,2018

Chicago Board of Bectidn Commissioners

A.

Assistant Bcecutive Director[absent]

Mr. Gough explained that Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday was
at the warehouse overseeing the 5% test recount. This was Mr. Holiday's
first election serving as Assistant Executive Director. Mr. Holiday did, and is
doing, an excellent job.
B.

Communications Director Jim Aiien

• We had a 59% turn out.The largest midterm since 1982.

• Vote by Mail was the highest ever. We had an exceptional return rate. Many Vote by
Mail applicants decided to Early Vote or vote in person on election Day
• Voting by 25-34 year olds took off this time. Haven't seen that level of participation in
the past.

• Fewer provisional ballots than in the past, approximately 1%,8,000.
• Problems Election Day;

o Particularly with the distribution of 2 ballots. We found about 38 precincts
only provided the "A ballot", and voters wanted to know if they could go back
and vote the "B ballot".

o We repeatedly have problem with split precincts issuing correct ballots. We
do not have the problem at Early Voting or Vote by Mail, only in-precinct.
• Not sure of Election Day same-day registration, but there were about 12,000 Grace

Period registrations. Many wait until Election Day to register. Had no complaints at
universities where they had a high number of same day registrations.
• Lowest turnout was the 18-24 age group. Mr. Allen explained that it is the smallest
age group only 6 year range, and most transient of groups keeping their registrations

up to date is more challenging. Participation was about 25-30 percent of their group
• General Counsel Adam Lasker pointed out that the University of Chicago was one of
our new Early Voting sites. Universities across the country were competing in
registering the most voters. University of Chicago received the most, besting
Harvard.

• This is the beginning of a 2 year appointment period for Judges of Election, so we will
have some retention. However, we are still accepting Judge of election and election
coordinator applications.

VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Prpjeots and Changes In Election Administration: already

discussed, will be a priority in the near future.
B.

Electronic Poll Books: We had no connection issues. AT&T did an excellent
Page 3 of6

 Regular Board Meeting - November 13,2018
Chicago Board of Section Commissioners

job,few other issues which were corrected.

C

Voting Equipment: will be priority after April election to be ready for 2020.

D.

Legislation;

General Counsel Adam Lasker reported
• Watching ERlC/cross check and pre-trial detainee bills. There was no motion in veto
session

• Thinking about next session:

o Regarding Vote Centers, Mr. Allen thinks the first step is to get a permanent
or 5 year renewable application for VBM; it exists for disabled voters and it
would free up time in the application processing.

o Agilis can update signatures after each election. Agilis can do the signature
comparisons, but only if we can have signature updates.
Vil.

New Business

A.

Approval of outside counsel to serve as electoral board hearing officers In

relation to the February 26,2019, municipal general election.[This item was
deferred during Agenda Consideration -see above]

B.
Approval of contractfor Judge of Election Trainer George Muftozfor the
2019 municipal elections.
• Mr. Munoz was a long term Board employee. He is semi-retired.

• We have limited recruitment at this time, but we have some more training for Judges of
Election and Election Coordinators. Mr. Munoz is the most experienced. Community
Services Manager, Audra Lewicki, has said that Mr. Munoz will be the only outside
trainer. Other trainers will be staff. Commissioner Kresse has sat through Mr. Munoz's
sessions and agrees with this decision.

• Commissioner Swain made a motion to approve contractfor Judge of Election Trainer
George Munozfor the 2019 municipal elections at a rate of $65/hour not to exceed
$25,000 over the term of the contract. The term of the contract is November 13, 2018
through November 30,2019. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion

was passed and the contract approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

C

Approval of eontract modification with Cardinal Color Group for preelection

household mailings.
• Went to bid for household mailing last summer. Cardinal Color Group was the lowest
bidder

• An option to extend the agreement for 2019 is in the existing agreement. We
recommend that the extension option be taken with an amendment.
Page 4 of6

 Regular Board Meeting - November 13,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

• Amend the contract for any pass-through of paper cost Increase. It's estimated that there
may be a 5% increase In paper cost, but only 2-3% would be passed through to the
Board, If needed. Still lowest bid.

• Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the extension with amendment.Commissioner
Swain seconded the motion. The motion was passed and the amended extension
approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.

D.

Legal Report

General Counsel Adam Lasker reported:
• Election Day was pretty smooth, with only 5 precincts Issued with late opening orders.
• Preparing for Electoral Board. We have more than 40 prospective Hearing Officers. About
half of whom are new Electoral Board Hearing Officers. On the morning of November
29*^ we will have a training session for new Hearing Officers,followed by an afternoon
session for all Hearing Officers.

• The initial hearings before the Hearing Officers will be on Dec 10^^.
• Petition filing begins next Monday at 9:00 a.m. everyone In line by 9:00 am will be eligible
for the simultaneous filing lottery.

• Filings will be accepted November 19-21; closed for Thanksgiving on the 22"^^; reopen on
Friday; open from 9:00 a.m.to Noon on Saturday; closed Sunday. Open Monday 9-5;
those In line the last 2 hours of the last day offiling are subject to another lottery.

• Apparent conformity process. Nomination Papers are first subject to Electoral Board
objections if filed, but If no objection Is filed then the papers are subject to the Apparent
Conformity process. We do not check for validity of signatures, just the number of
signatures. Apparent Conformity will be happening in conjunction with nomination filing
and objection filing.
• The Chairwoman Is concerned with Thursday 11/29 Hearing Officer training, because the
people may not be able to make It. Mr. Lasker stated that the weekends are filing
periods. The Chairwoman wants total participation, particularly new Hearing Officers. Mr.
Lasker will send a notice to all Hearing Officers and see what the response Is. They do get
paid for the training sessions.

VIII.

Financial Report:[none]

IX.

Public Comment

Judge of Election Carol Ma her addressed the Board regarding her experiences and suggested
some changes.
Helene Gabelnick speaking as a Judge of Election and not for the League of Women Voters made
some suggestions regarding improvements for contacting Election Central.
X.

Executive Session: None

Page 5 of6

 Regular Board Meeting - November 13,2018
Chicago Board of Bectlon Commissioners

XI.

Adjournment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn the meeting until the next
scheduled Regular Board Meeting on November 27^^ at 9:30. Commissioner Swain
seconded the motion.The motion passed by unanimous vote of the Board. The
meeting was adjourned at 10:27 a.m.

Submitted,

Commissiongf William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page6 of6

 