 

Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners

Minutes of the Real Estate Committee

Tuesday, February 19, 2019 9:35 AM Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

ATTENDANCE
Present: Moore, Morrison, Anaya, Britton, Daley, Degnen, Gainer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison,

Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (l3)

Absent: Arroyo, Deer, Johnson and Tobolski (4)

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Moore asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
accordance with Cook County Code, Sec. 2-107(dd)

No Public Speakers

19?0174
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval ofthe minutes from the meeting of 1 1/13/2018

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Lowry, to approve
19?0174. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Morrison, Anaya, Britton, Daley. Degnen, Gainer, Lowry. Miller, Morrison,
Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (13)

Absent: Arroyo, Deer. Johnson and Tobolski (4)

19-0116
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent

PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST

Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the ?Forest Preserves?), as
Licensor to grant a License to MCImetro Access Transmission Services LLC (?MClmetro?), Grantee, to
locate, operate and maintain 3,078 linear feet of 2?inch underground conduit with ?ber optic cable along
the north side of 87th Street in the Willow Springs Woods and Buffalo Woods Forest Preserves. The
conduit and ?ber optic line will be installed by directional bore within and alongside the right of way of
87th Street from vacated Elm Street to Kean Avenue. No trees are proposed to be removed or impacted
by this project.

Term: Ten (10) Years

License Fee: $89,033.06

License Application Fee: $1,500.00

License Review Fees: $1 1,500.00

YELAR Fee: $6,300.00

Total one-time upfront fee of $103,333.06 for the term of the License
(See. 5-2A-4 and 5-28-4)

Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 1.06 Acres

Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Of?cer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.

The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserve District Board of Commissioners
approve the issuance of this license.

District(s): 17

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Sean Morrison, to
recommend for approval 19-0116. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Morrison, Anaya, Britton, Daley, Degnen, Gainer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison,
Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (13)
Absent: Arroyo, Deer, Johnson and Tobolski (4)

19-0122
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED SALE OR PURCHASE OF REAL ESTATE
Department(s): Legal Department
Other Part(ies): Village of Schiller Park, Illinois
Request: It is respectfully requested that this proposed sale be approved.
Description of Real Estate: Surplus Parcel 12
2.66 i acres described as follows:
That portion of Block 5 in the Superior Court Partition of that part of the South Section of Robinson?s
Reserve lying West of the West Right of Way Line of new Des Plaines Avenue and North of North Right
of Way Line of Irving Park Boulevard in Township 40 North, Range 12, East of the Third Principal
Meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
Permanent Index Number: Part of 12-15-400-004-0000
Section: 
Parcel(s): Surplus Parcel 12

Fiscal Impact: $625,000.00 in revenue

Accounts: Anticipated Land Sales/Surplus 510006411466

District(s): 9

Summary: The Forest Preserves of Cook County (the ?Forest Preserves?) recently concluded
negotiations for the sale of a Surplus Parcel that has been approved for sale by the State Legislature,
Surplus Parcel 12, consisting of approximately 2.66 acres (the ?Surplus Parcel?) located in the Village of
Schiller Park, Cook County, Illinois. The Surplus Parcel is not contiguous with or connected to any other
Forest Preserves property.

During the mid-80?s, Forest Preserves staff undertook a comprehensive study of all Forest Preserves
holdings, resulting in a list of 30 parcels being considered for disposal. At the June 3, 1985 meeting ofthe
Forest Preserves of Cook County Board of Commissioners (the ?Board?). The Board approved the
divestiture and procedure for disposal of 28 of the 30 parcels, based on the recommendation of its
Advisory Committee. Subsequently, the Forest Preserves sought and obtained permission, on September
23, 1985 via Public Act 84-867, from the State Legislature to offer the 30 aforementioned parcels,
including Surplus Parcel 12, for sale with the monies to accrue to the Forest Preserves Real Estate
Acquisition Fund.

The Village of Schiller Park (the ?Buyer?), has agreed to buy the Surplus Parcel from the Forest
Preserves for the sum of SIX HUNDRED TWENTY-FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS AND 00/100
(the ?Purchase Price?). The Purchase Price is consistent with certified appraisals
obtained by the Forest Preserves. The Purchase Price will be payable in ten (10) annual cash installments
to begin on the effective date of the agreement, and each year thereafter, in the amount of $60,000.00
prior to closing and $25,000.00 at the time of closing. No interest rate, fee or penalty provision shall be
applicable. If any cash installment is not received by the Forest Preserves on the effective date of the
agreement, and each year thereafter, the Forest Preserves shall send written notice to the Buyer
demanding such payment and the Buyer shall have ninety (90) days from the date of the notice to comply.
If the Buyer does not comply within the ninety (90) day period, the Forest Preserves shall have the option
to terminate the agreement and keep any cash installments already received. Additionally, the Buyer has
agreed to accept title to the Surplus Parcel with a covenant or deed restriction limiting use of the Surplus
Parcel to recreational space for public use.

Permission is now sought, upon satisfactory completion of all due diligence and negotiation of any and all
required documentation as determined by the Forest Preserves? legal department, to accept the
aforementioned Purchase Price and terms, less any customary closing costs, as full compensation for the
sale of the Surplus Parcel and to convey by quitclaim deed all of the Forest Preserves? right, title and
interest in the Surplus Parcel.

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Vice Chair Kevin Morrison, to defer
19-0122. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Morrison, Anaya, Britton, Daley, Degnen, Gainer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison,
Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (13)

Absent: Arroyo, Deer, Johnson and Tobolski (4)

ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner Britten, to adjourn the
meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:

Ayes: Moore, Morrison, Anaya, Britton, Daley, Degnen, Gainer, Lowry, Miller, Morrison,
Silvestri, Sims and Suffredin (13)

Absent: Arroyo, Deer, Johnson and Tobolski (4)

Respectfully submitted,

2/ 215?
2, ,r - .. .

nae/aw? 
f? q, . 

.. 

 

 

Chairman 9 Secretary

A complete record of this meeting is available at 

