Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Human Relations Committee
1:30 PM
Tuesday, February 19, 2019

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (6)

Absent:

Deer (1)

Also Present-Commissioners: John Daley, Scott Britton, and Peter Silvestri
PUBLIC TESTIMONY
Chairman asked the Secretary to the Board to call upon the registered public speakers, in
Accordance with Cook County Code.
1.
2.

Mr. Mark Armstrong
Mr. George Blakemore

Speakers for Public Hearing Item # 19-0832
1. Kim Hunt, Pride Action Tank
2. Vanessa Sheridan, Center on Halsted
3. Carolyn Wald, ACLU
4. Stehpanie Skora, Brave Space Alliance
5. Myles Brady Davis, Equity Illinois
6. Kara Ingelhart, Lamda Legal
19-1817
COMMITTEE MINUTES
Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 09/26/2018
Page 1 of 7

 A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Anaya, to approve
19-1817. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (6)
Absent:

Deer (1)
19-1291

Sponsored by: KEVIN B. MORRISON, DENNIS DEER, STANLEY MOORE and ALMA E.
ANAYA, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING A COOK COUNTY COMMITTEE ON ADDRESSING BIAS, EQUITY,
AND CULTURAL COMPETENCY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Chapter 2- Administration,
Article VI, Boards, Commissions, and Committees, Division 1 - generally sections 2-480 through 2-482
of
the Cook County Code, is hereby enacted as Follows:
Sec. 2-480. Short Title. This Division shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County
Committee on Addressing Bias, Equity, and Cultural Competency” (The Committee)
Sec. 2-481. - Policy and Purpose.
(a) Policy. This ordinance hereby creates a Committee to make recommendations to the President
and the Cook County Board of Commissioners, as well as the Cook County Government, as a whole,
regarding the need for increased training and an evaluation of policies and procedures relating to
addressing bias and creating a more equitable, culturally competent Cook County Government.
(b) Purpose.
(1) Cook County shall explore ways in which to address training, policies, and procedures that
decrease bias and increase cultural competency to produce a more equitable and productive
government.
(2) The Cook County Human Rights Ordinance protects all people who live and work in the County
from discrimination and harassment in employment, public accommodations, housing, credit
transactions, and County facilities, programs and services. Cook County strives to build upon the
Human Rights Ordnance to maintain that discrimination in any form will not be tolerated and
seeks to make Cook County a more equitable and inclusive government that affirms the
identities and humanity of all Cook County employees and residents
Page 2 of 7

 (3) Addressing bias and creating a more equitable government will help create a more productive
workforce and allow Cook County Government to provide better public service to the residents
of Cook County.
Sec. 2-482. - Cook County Committee on Addressing Bias, Equity, and Cultural Competency.
(a) This advisory Committee shall consist of:
(1) The four (4) lead sponsors of this ordinance to serve as co-chairs of the Committee.
(2) The Cook County Board President or their designee; Cook County Health and Hospital System
representative(s) as determined by the Cook County Health and Hospital System Chief
Executive Officer or their designee. Cook County Sheriff Department representative(s) as
determined by the Cook County Sheriff or their designee. Cook County Office of the Chief
Judge representative(s) as determined by the Cook County Chief Judge or their designee. Cook
County State’s Attorney representative(s) as determined by the Cook County State’s Attorney
or their designee. Cook County Bureau of Human Resources representative(s) as determined by
the Cook County Bureau Chief of Human Resources or their designee.
(3) Community-based advocacy organizations, experts in diversity, equity, and inclusion training,
government training professionals and advocates of equity within government, and other
government officials as invited by the Committee members from the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.
(b) The Committee members will serve for the six months, following the adoption of this ordinance,
needed to research this issue and to develop a final report. The Committee can decide to meet at
an agreeable time, date, and location beyond that time as it sees fit.
(c) The Committee shall review and make recommendations in writing on the success and challenges
of current policies and procedures of Cook County Government and the Cook County Health and
Hospital System in regard to training employees on implicit/explicit bias and cultural competency.
(d) The Committee shall review and make recommendations in writing on current best practices and
proposals from similar government entities across the United States that address training, policies, and
procedures that decrease bias and increase cultural competency to produce a more equitable and
productive government.
(e) The Committee shall review and make recommendations in writing a plan for implementation of
County-wide training on bias and cultural competency with a focus on specialized training for
departments, as needed.
(f) The Committee the advisory Committee shall meet twice a month on the 2nd and 4th Tuesday of
the month or otherwise designated by the chairs of the Committee for the six (6) months following the
adoption of this ordinance.
Page 3 of 7

 (g) The Committee shall report its findings to the President of the Cook County Board and the Cook
County Board of Commissioners on or before September 30, 2019.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Anaya, to
recommend for approval 19-1291. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (6)
Absent:

Deer (1)

19-0832
Sponsored by: KEVIN B. MORRISON, DENNIS DEER, ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR,
SCOTT R. BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL
LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and
LARRY SUFFREDIN, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CONDEMNING THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S TREATMENT OF TRANSGENDER,
GENDER NON-CONFORMING AND INTERSEX INDIVIDUALS
WHEREAS, the Trump administration and the Department of Health and Human Services is considering
narrowly defining gender as a biological, immutable condition determined by genitalia at birth; and
WHEREAS, The Cook County Board of Commissioners has been informed of this by Commissioner
Kevin B. Morrison and LGBTQ advocates; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Kevin B. Morrison and LGBTQ advocates see this effort as a hateful
attempt to roll back recognition and protections of transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex
people; and
WHEREAS, This proposed definition would essentially eradicate federal recognition of the estimated 1.4
million Americans who identify as a gender other than the one they were assigned at birth; and
WHEREAS, This proposed definition would erase children who are born with intersex conditions, which
is about 1.7 percent of the population, having been born with a reproductive or sexual anatomy that
doesn't fit the typical definitions of female or male; and
WHEREAS, This position makes irrelevant and discounts what transgender, gender non-conforming and
intersex people understand about themselves and discounts what medical providers know and understand
about their transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex patients; and
Page 4 of 7

 WHEREAS, This redefining would force genetic testing to resolve any dispute, denying transgender and
gender non-conforming individuals their autonomy and humanity; and
WHEREAS, Children born with intersex conditions often have male and female genitalia that do not fit
the Trump administration’s proposed definitions; and
WHEREAS, The Trump administration has already attempted to bar transgender people from serving in
the military; and
WHEREAS, Cook County is affirming and welcoming of all individuals to self-identify; and
WHEREAS, Cook County stands with the transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex community
and affirms that intersex, gender non-conforming, and transgender people #WontBeErased; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, That we, the Cook County Board President and Cook
County Board of Commissioners do hereby honor the identities of transgender, gender non-conforming
and intersex people, celebrate them, affirm their lives and call on President Trump and the Department of
Health and Human Services to stop any attempt to narrowly define gender as biological; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That suitable copies of this resolution are presented to President
Donald J. Trump and Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex M. Azar II.
A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Miller,
to recommend to accept as substituted 19-0832. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (6)
Absent:

Deer (1)
PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE TO FILE 19-0832
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
PUBLIC HEARING 2/19/2019

Sponsored By: KEVIN B. MORRISON, DENNIS DEER, ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR,
SCOTT R. BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY,
DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and LARRY
SUFFREDIN, County Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CONDEMNING THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S TREATMENT OF TRANSGENDER,
GENDER NON-CONFORMING, AND INTERSEX INDIVIDUALS
WHEREAS, the Trump administration and the Department of Health and Human Services is considering
narrowly defining gender as a biological, immutable condition determined by genitalia at birth; and
Page 5 of 7

 WHEREAS, the Trump administration has banned transgender and gender non-conforming individuals
from serving in the United States military; and
WHEREAS, the Departments of Justice and Education withdrew landmark 2016 guidance explaining how
schools must protect transgender students under the federal Title IX law; and
WHEREAS, various other federal departments and agencies took direct action to weaken protections
against transgender individuals that has been documented by the National Center for Transgender Equality;
and
WHEREAS, the Cook County Board of Commissioners has been informed of this by Commissioner Kevin
B. Morrison and LGBTQ advocates; and
WHEREAS, Commissioner Kevin B. Morrison and LGBTQ advocates see this effort as a hateful attempt
to roll back recognition and protections of transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex people; and
WHEREAS, this proposed definition by the Department of Health and Human Services would essentially
eradicate federal recognition of the estimated 1.4 million Americans who identify as a gender other than
the one they were assigned at birth; and
WHEREAS, this proposed definition would erase children who are born with intersex conditions, which
is about 1.7 percent of the population, having been born with a reproductive or sexual anatomy that doesn't
fit the typical definitions of female or male; and
WHEREAS, this position makes irrelevant and discounts what transgender, gender non-conforming and
intersex people understand about themselves and discounts what medical providers know and understand
about their transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex patients; and
WHEREAS, this redefining would force genetic testing to resolve any dispute, denying transgender and
gender non-conforming individuals their autonomy and humanity; and
WHEREAS, children born with intersex traits are often subjected to harmful, non-consensual surgeries, in
Chicago and around the United States, in an attempt to, make their natural sex characteristics conform to
false binary notions of 'male' or 'female' bodies, which the Trump Administration's restrictive view of sex
and gender would purport to validate; and
WHEREAS, the Trump administration’s ban on military service by transgender and gender nonconforming individuals does not recognize the incredible sacrifice and service of as many as 15,000
transgender and gender non-conforming troops that are already serving and would be forced to either
conceal their gender identity or face discharge; and
WHEREAS, the Trump administration’s ban on military service by transgender and gender nonconforming individuals keeps talented and willing individuals out of the military based on a discriminatory
policy; and
Page 6 of 7

 WHEREAS, all action necessary should be taken to make school a place where all students are affirmed
and empowered and are provided with a safe environment to learn; and
WHEREAS, Cook County is affirming and welcoming of all individuals to self-identify; and
WHEREAS, Cook County stands with the transgender, gender non-conforming, and intersex community
and affirms that intersex, gender non-conforming, and transgender people #WontBeErased; and
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that we, the Cook County Board President and Cook County Board
of Commissioners do hereby honor the identities of transgender, gender non-conforming and intersex
people, celebrate them, affirm their lives and call on President Trump and the Department of Health and
Human Services to stop any attempt to narrowly define gender as biological; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that suitable copies of this resolution are presented to President Donald
J. Trump, Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex M. Azar II, Acting Secretary of Defense Patrick
M. Shanahan, and Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos.

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Miller, to
recommend for approval as substituted 19-0832. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (6)
Absent:

Deer (1)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Commissioner Suffredin, seconded by Commissioner Anaya to adjourn
the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:
Morrison, Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin (6)
Absent:

Deer (1)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman
Secretary
A video recording of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 7 of 7

 