3W

546147

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

 at Emmott
CITY COUNCIL
HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD

218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313.224.3487 Fax: 313.224.4336

Email: historic@detroitmi.gov

TO: .. Flaming and Economic Standing Committee

FROM: anese Chapman, Senior Historic Planner

DATE: March 4, 2019

RE: Extension of study period for the proposed Detroit City/Coleman A. Young

International Airport Local Historic District

The study by the Historic Designation Advisory Board for the proposed Detroit City/ Coleman
A. Young International Airport Local Historic District is currently underway. It w0uld appear
that to provide time for the completion of this process that it is necessary to extend the study
period for this proposed historic district. A resolution is attached for your consideration.

Respect?illy submitted,

    
 

 

nese Chapinang??teu' is oric Planner
egislative Policy Division

Cc: City Clerk
Maurice Cox Director, Planning and Development Department
David Bell Director, BSEED
Marcell R. Todd, Jr. Director, City Planning Commission
David Whitaker Director, Legislative Policy Division

BY

 

NOW BE IT RESOLVED that in accordance with the forgoing communication, the period of
study for the proposed Detroit City/Coleman A. Young International Airport located at 11499
Conner Street, established by resolution on March 4, 2019, is hereby extended to October 4,
201 9.

QEity of EBetruit I 5

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

RAQUEL CASTANEDA-LOPEZ

 

COUNCIL MEMBER
DISTRICT 6
MEMORANDUM
TO: Tyrone Clifton, Director, Detroit Building Authority
THRU: Council President Brenda Jones






FROM: Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez 
DATE: March 4, 2019

RE: Sale of 2919 Wabash St., Detroit, MI 48216

 

My of?ce has been contacted by a constituent regarding 2919 Wabash St., Detroit, MI 48216.

This constituent has been working with the DBA to buy the sidelot (2919 Wabash) for approximately ten
years. Please provide information regarding the status of the sale of this sidelot as well as the reason for the
delay in processing this request.

Thank you. Please contact my office if you have any questions.

Cc: Honorable Detroit City Council
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Liaison
Jill Bryant, Property Management, DBA
City Clerk

 

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48225

?pp- 4:42:45? Phone: 313.224.2450 Fax: 313.224.1189





 

(titty at Eetruit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

T0: James Tate, Chair, Planning and Economic Development Committee

FROM: Council President Pro Tempore Shef?eld, Chair, Neighborhoods and
Community Services Committe?

DATE: March 5, 2019

RE: Preservation Fund Advisory Board Ordinance

 

Please refer the attached Preservation Fund Advisory Board Ordinance to the Planning
and Economic Development Committee. Please contact Ari Ruttenberg at 313-224-4505

if you have any questions.

Thank you

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224?4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


Draft 2/27/19

SUMMARY

AN ORDINANCE to amend Chapter 14 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Community
Development; by adding to Article XII, Inclusionary Housing Requirements, Sections 14-12-7(h)
through to provide for the health, safety and general welfare of the public by

establishing the Detroit Affordable Housing Development and Preservation Fund Advisory Board.



Draft 2/27/19

(5) Prioritize the preservation of existing affordable housing units.

In addition to the deposit of penalties for violations under Sec. 14-12-6, the City's annual
budget shall contain an appropriation to the Fund. It is expected that the annual appropriation will
be not less than 20% of the net receipts of all commercial property sales during the previous ?scal
year.

Unless speci?cally stated otherwise in the budget closing resolution, funds not
expended within such appropriation during a given ?scal year shall remain in such appropriation
and carry forward into the subsequent ?scal year to fund future affordable residential housing
projects and other eligible activities.

Subject to approval of the City Council, the City may also accept and deposit into the
Fund or subaccounts of the Fund donations and grants from private or public sources, subject to
conditions of such grant, for use in accordance with the purpose of the Fund.

Agreements or contracts for the expenditures from the Fund shall be authorized by the
City Council.

In addition to the affordability guidelines established pursuant to Sec. 14-12?9, the
department shall deve10p and publish on the City's website guidelines requiring Fund monies to
be used to support housing opportunities for Detroit residents with income up to 50% AMI for
activities consistent with this article.

(1) To the extent possible, not less than 70% of Fund monies shall be allocated to
directly bene?t households earning up to 30% of AMI: the remaining 30% of monies
may be used to bene?t households earning up to 50% AMI. Fund monies shall not be
used to bene?t households earning more than 50% of AMI.

(2) Not less than 70% of Fund monies shall be allocated in areas that are located in

Draft 2/27/19

Development and Preservation Trust Fund and provide recommendations to the City
Council regarding the distribution of the fund?s proceeds. The City Council may accept the
recommendation of the advisory board but are not bound by its findings. The advisory
board shall be composed of community members and housing experts selected item a pool
of interested candidates approved by City Council. The candidates for the advisory board
shall be selected from the following knowledge base:
An individual with expertise in the creation or operation of high quality
sustainable affordable housing: or an affordable housing advocate. and
(ii) A Detroit resident that: has a disability; or is a low income renten or has
experienced either homelessness. housing instability, or displacement.
The candidates for the advisory board shall be appointed: serve terms: and
may he removed in the 'l'bllowing manner:
(1) The total number of advisory board members shall be eighteen 
Each City Council Member will select two advisory board members.
(2) Each selected board member shall serve a term ot'two years beginning
on the initial commencement of the advisory board. Any vacancies shall
be ?lled by the at large or district Council Member that selected them.
Appointed advisory board members are removable at will by a two-third
(EB) majority ofCity Council.
The advisory board shall establish regularly meetings and keep a
minutes of each meeting. The meetings shall be open to the public.

Li) Detroit Housing Development and Preservation Fund Advisory
Board responsibilities;

It shall be the responsibility of the advisory board to undertake the

5

Draft 2/27/19

Members of the advisorv board and their affiliated organizations may be allowed
to submit an application or proposal for trust fund dollars. Should an advisory board member or
their affiliated organization submit an application or proposal for trust funds. the advisoryr board
member shall not partiei pate in the review or determination of whether the application or

proposal is presented to Citv Council for approvalSection 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. If this ordinance is passed by a two?thirds majority of City Council
members serving, it shall be given immediate effect and shall become effective upon
publication in accordance with Section 4-118 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter; if passed
by less than a two-thirds majority of City Council members serving, it shall become
effective no later than thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with Section 4-118
of the 2012 Detroit City Charter; if this ordinance specifies a certain date to become
effective, it shall become effective in accordance with the date

Approved as to form:

 

Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

