Mam SE

73e? (2540\-

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

a; COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 908
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-6380 - 

CITY OF DETROIT MAR 6 2019 (313) 224-1629 
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION DEPARTMENT 

   

 

 

February 26, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Reprogramming Amendment to the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
Annual Action Plans for ?scal years 2014-15, 2017-18 and 2018-19

Honorable City Council:

The Housing Revitalization Department (HRD) is requesting that changes be made to the
City?s CDBG Annual Action Plan consistent with meeting the City's CDBG Timeliness Test on
May 2, 2019.

The City has previously had signi?cant challenges meeting its timeliness test, which requires that
the City have no more than 1.5 times its CDBG allocation on hand at any time. A test of this
metric is made sixty (60) days before the end of the program year for all CDBG recipients. This
test is one of the primary ways in which the City's performance is measured by U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).

Also, this amendment will allow the Department to reprogram unused CDBG funds from a
number of account balances for programs that funds unlikely to be used in a timely manner.

To do so however, a series of budget amendments are required to expend funding. The funding
will change as follows:

Line items to be reprogrammed (Decrease):

Summer Jobs Program (DESC) 2014-15, 2017-18 2018-19) 2,000,000

0 Demolition (Schools Parks) (FY 2018?19) 55 320 000
Total 2,320,000

 

Line Item for Funding Addition for FY 2018-19 (Increase):

I Pre-development Affordable Housing 1,000,000
0 Conventional Home Repair (Senior) 500,000
0 0% CDBG Housing Rehab Loan Program 500,000
I Planning (Demolition Studies for Schools) ?5 320,000

Total 2,320,000

 

Detroit City Council

RE: Reprogramming Amendment to the CDBG Annual Action Plan
February 26, 2019

Page 2

We respectfully request that your Honorable Body approve the attached resolution authorizing
this change to amend the CDBG Annual Action Plan for the stated purpose. This proposed
amendment was posted on the City?s website and advertised in the Detroit News/Free Press..
Upon City Council?s approval, it will be transmitted to HUD.

We ask that the Council approve this with a Waiver of Reconsideration.
Respectfully submitted,




Donald Rencher
Director
Housing Revitalization Department

Attachment

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

 

PPROVED

 

 

BUDGET DIRECTOR 1"

cm '7/r 9

 

 

 

 

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council hereby approves amending the Annual Action Plan to
re?ect the reprogramming of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) in accordance
with the foregoing communication; and

WHEREAS, the Mayor of the City of Detroit, Michael E. Duggan, is hereby authorized to
amend the Annual Action Plan, including all understandings and assurances contained therein to
the US. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in accordance with the
foregoing communication; and

WHEREAS, the Housing and Revitalization Department has performed an evaluation of
outstanding CDBG funding line items and determined that a strategic reallocation of funding is
in order to meet timeliness by May 2, 2019; and

RESOLVED, that the Budget Director be and is hereby authorized to increase Appropriation 
20541 Pre-development Affordable Housing by $1,000,000; and

RESOLVED, that the Budget Director be and is hereby authorized to increase Appropriation 
20153 Conventional Home Repair (Senior) by $5 00,000; and

RESOLVED, that the Budget Director be and is hereby authorized to increase Appropriation 
13609 0% CDBG Housing Rehab Loan Program by $500,000; and

RESOLVED, that the Budget Director be and is hereby authorized to increase Appropriation 
13169 Planning (Demolition Studies for Schools) by $320,000; and

RESOLVED, that the Budget Director be and is hereby authorized to decrease Appropriation 
13837 Summer Jobs Program (DESC) by $2,000,000; and

RESOLVED, that the Budget Director be and is hereby authorized to decrease Appropriation 
20544 Demolition (Schools Parks) by $320,000; and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Finance Director be and is hereby authorized to accept
and process all documents re?ecting these changes.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
February 27, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
8675 W. Grand River

Honorable City Council:

The City Of Detroit Plaming and Development Department has received an offer
from Campau Investments LLC (?Campau?), a Michigan Limited Liability Company, requesting
to purchase City-owned real property having a street address of 8675 W. Grand River

(the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Five Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 

The Property is zoned B4 (General Business District), measures approximately 2000 square feet
and is located between and adjacent to properties owned by Campau at 8671 and 8679 W. Grand
River. Campau proposes to combine all Of the properties to pursue commercial development.
Any proposed use of the Property by Campau shall be consistent with the allowable uses for

which the Property is zoned.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to approve the
sale and authorize the Director Of the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, to issue a quit claim deed to the Property and such other documents as may be
necessary to effectuate the sale, with Campau Investments LLC, a Michigan Limited Liability

Company for the amount of $5,000.00.

Respect?illy Submitted, 
a 
Maurice Cox
Director
Plaming Development Department

    



cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 8675 W. Grand River, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more
particularly described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Campau Investments LLC
for the purchase price of Five Thousand and 00/ 100 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his or her
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other documents necessary or convenient
for the consummation of the transaction pursuant to and in accordance with the Purchase
Agreement; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Three Hundred and 00/100 Dollars (300.00) shall be paid to the DBA from the sale
proceeds, 2) Two Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars ($250.00) shall be paid to the real
estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to Two Hundred
and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:
GRAND RIVER LOT 13 JOHN TIREMANS SUB L32 P10 PLATS, 16/168 20 100

a/k/a 8675 W. Grand River
Tax Parcel ID 16004872

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By; JEFF
Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OE DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

 

 

March 11, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Authorization to Acquire Eight (8) Parcels from the Detroit Land Bank Authority 
Lease of 7515 Elmhurst and Eight (8) Parcels to Michigan Statewide Carpenters
and Millwrights Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund

The City of Detroit by and through the Planning Development Department 
is hereby requesting the authorization of your Honorable Body to acquire certain land from the
Detroit Land Bank Authority (?Acquisition Parcels?) to include in a lease agreement (the ?Lease?)
between the City and the Michigan Statewide Carpenters and Millwrights Joint Apprenticeship

and Training Fund (?Training Fund?).

The City proposes to lease for a period of 99 years approximately 7 acres of land in the City of
Detroit, including 6 acres of land currently owned by the City at 7515 Elmhurst and the Acquisition
Parcels, to the Training Fund for their construction and Operation of a skilled trades training facility
with supporting administrative space. As consideration for the lease, the Training Fund will make
a minimum investment of of capital improvements to the City?s property and provide certain
tenant services, including certain free programs to the public. The Training Fund plans to
consolidated certain operations outside of the City into a new, state-Of-the-art training facility on
the leased premises that is anticipated to accommodate approximately 1500 trainees per year
through various skilled trades programs.

At this time, is requesting: (1) approval of acquisition of the Acquisition Parcels from the
Detroit Land Bank Authority and (2) approval of the Lease with the Training Fund.

Respectfully submitted,

Janet L. Attarian, Deputy Director
Flaming Development Department

cc: S. Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit (?City?) through the Planning Development Department
wishes to acquire eight (8) properties within the City of Detroit, MI as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A (?Acquisition Parcels?) from the Detroit Land Bank Authority
for the sum of One and 00/100 Dollar and

WHEREAS, the City and the Michigan Statewide Carpenters and Millwrights Joint
Apprenticeship and Training Fund (?Training Fund?) wish to enter into that certain lease
agreement that is attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit that concerns certain City?
owned property at 7515 Elmhurst and the Acquisition Parcels (?Lease Agreement?); and

WHEREAS, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department has reviewed the
environmental conditions of the Acquisition Parcels attached hereto as Attachment 1; and

WHEREAS, in accordance with Chapter 2, Article I, Division 2 of the Detroit City Code: (1) the
City Council ?nds that the Acquisition Parcels have received appropriate environmental inquiry
in accordance with the review referred to in the preceding paragraph; (2) the environmental inquiry
has shown that past use of the Acquisition Parcels for the period investigated has been solely for
residential purposes and that the Acquisition Parcels do not pose an adverse environmental impact,
therefore none of the Acquisition Parcels are considered a facility; and (3) the City Council ?nds
and declares that the preservation of the promotion of the public health, safety, welfare or good
outweighs the cost of the environmental inquiry and therefore waives the requirement that the
seller bear the cost of the environmental inquiry; now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves acquisition of the Acquisition Parcels
from the DLBA for the consideration of One and 00/ 100 Dollar and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to
accept and record a deed to the Acquisition Parcels to the City of Detroit, as well as execute any
Such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate transfer of the Acquisition Parcels from
DLBA to the City of Detroit; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Acquisition Parcels to the City, provided that the changes do not
materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer; and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the Lease Agreement; and be it further
RESOLVED, that the Lease Agreement will be considered con?rmed when executed by the

Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form;
and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby grants to the Training Fund an option to purchase
the City-owned property included in the Lease Agreement at any time during the term of the Lease
Agreement, provided that the City and Training Fund mutually agree upon a reasonable sales price
and that Detroit City Council grants approval of such sale to the Training Fund separate and apart
from this resolution; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the Finance Director is hereby authorized to increase the necessary accounts
and honor expenditures, vouchers and payrolls when presented in accordance with the foregoing
communication and standard City procedures.

mu
LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:
Parcel 1

WEBB 41REAR OF LOT 10 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49
PLATS, 16/203 41.2 IRREG

a/k/a 7238 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005554

Parcel 2

WEBB EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203
30 128.56 

a/k/a 7228 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005555

Parcel 3
WEBB 30 FT LOT 10 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203 30 128.56

a/k/a 7222 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005556

L/Parcel 4

WEBB 32.5 FT LOT 9 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203 32.5 
128.56

a/k/a 7216 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005557001

1/ Parcel 5

ELMHURST 50 FT OF LOT 33 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203 50 
128.56

a/k/a 7441 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005743

__,Parcel 6

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 
16/203 34 128.56

afk/a 7431 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005742
Parcel 7

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS,
16/203 34 128.56

a/k/a 7425 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005741

/p

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 
16/203 35 128.56

arcel 8

a/k/a 7421 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005740

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

Bra-'4 31? 

IBasil Sarini'. P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED



LEASE AGREEMENT

LEASE AGREEMENT

BETWEEN

THE CITY OF DETROIT

AND

MICHIGAN STATEWIDE CARPENTERS AND MILLWRIGHTS JOINT
APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING FUND

CONTRACT NO.

 

LEASE AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN

THE CITY OF DETROIT
AND
MICHIGAN STATEWIDE CARPENTERS AND MILLWRIGHTS JOINT
APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING FUND

THIS LEASE AGREEMENT (?Lease?) is entered into by and between the City of Detroit
a Michigan municipal corporation acting by and through its Planning Development
Department with of?ces at 2 Woodward, Suite 808, Detroit, MI 48226, and the Michigan
Statewide Carpenters and Milluuights Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund ("Tenant"), a multi-
employer Trust Fund established under the principles of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 that is recognized as a tax exempt entity pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section
501(c)(3) and has an address of 6525 Centurion Drive, Lansing, Michigan 48917.

RECITALS:

WHEREAS, the City owns certain real property located at 7515 Elmhurst, 7238, 7228,
7222 and 7216 Webb, 7441, 7431, 7425 and 7421 Elmhurst, Detroit, MI 48204 (the "Premises")
as more fully described in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated by reference

herein; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to lease to Tenant, and Tenant desires to lease from City,
the Premises upon the terms, covenants and conditions set forth in the Lease; and

WHEREAS, the City acknowledges that the authorized uses of the Premises by Tenant
under this Lease are allowable under the current zoning of the Premises; and

NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and suf?ciency
of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

1. PREMISES AND AUTHORIZED USE

no.1, City hereby leases to the Tenant and the Tenant hereby accepts from the City the
exclusive use and occupancy of the Premises, together with all necessary ingress and egress, and
all ?xtures, equipment and property now or hereafter installed or placed within. The Premises
consists of approximately approximately 7 acres, more or less. Tenant shall have exclusive use
of the Premises for construction and Operation of a training facility, as well as any incidental uses
thereto. The Tenant shall procure, at its sole expense, any license or permit required for the

proper and lawful conduct of the Tenant?s business or other activity carried on in accordance
with the above use.

2L. TERM OF LEASE

2.01 The term of this Lease shall be for ninety nine (99) years commencing on the later
of 1) January 1, 2019 or 2) on the date of approval by Detroit City Council (?Lease Term?),
unless otherwise terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Lease.

The Lease Term may be extended for three (3) additional ten (10) year terms. To
exercise a respective additional ten (10) year term, Tenant shall send a letter to the City
indicating Tenant?s desire to invoke the option to extend the Lease. The letter shall be received
by the City at least one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the expiration of the then current
Lease Term due to expire. The additional term shall require a written amendment to this Lease,
as well as separate approval by Detroit City Council to be effective. The term "Lease Term"
shall include the initial and any extended terms of this Lease.

3. CONSIDERATION

The parties hereby acknowledge that the value of the services provided by Tenant
as outlined herein (?Tenant Services?) and the improvements to be made by Tenant to the
Premises (?Capital Improvements?) during the Lease Term are fair and adequate consideration
for this Lease. Unless otherwise stipulated in the Lease, Tenant will not pay monetary
consideration to the City for lease of the Premises during the Lease Term. Tenant shall make an
initial minimum investment towards the Tenant Services and Capital Improvements conducted
on the Premises in the amount of twenty two million and 00/100 dollars 

Capital Improvements. Tenant shall make sufficient Capital Improvements, at its
cost, to the Premises to create a Michigan Statewide Carpenters and Millwrights Joint
Apprenticeship and Training Fund Training Facility (the ?Training Facility?) to conduct and
support the Tenant Services. Tenant?s initial Capital Improvements to construct the Training
Facility shall be substantially completed by June 30, 2022 and shall include a training facility
building, supporting parking lots, fencing, signage, landscaping, as well as utility connections
and metering. The Training Facility shall be constructed in such a manner as to provide trainees

3

and City of Detroit residents with a productive experience. Tenant shall construct the Capital
Improvements pursuant to the process and with such City reviews/approvals outlined in Section

12.01 of this Lease.

3.03 Tenant Services. The Tenant, in conjunction with its training program, shall
provide Tenant Services to the public free of charge during the Lease Term. The Tenant
Services shall include, but are not limited to, the following:

 

Tenant shall engage area residents and community stakeholders to develop and
provide programs and activities to the public that meet the agreed upon needs and
expectations of the City of Detroit community and help stimulate the development of
initiatives af?liated with the carpentry and millwright trades; and

Such programs and activities will engage local residents and businesses and, in the
process, contribute to neighborhood stabilization and revitalization; and

- Tenant shall provide certain classes at the Training Facility that support Tenant?s
standards and mission to train future carpenters and millwrights, as well as classes
that cater to the agreed upon needs of the surrounding neighborhood with reSpect to

carpentry and hi gh?precision craftsmanship; and

- Tenant shall have programs at Training Facility that focus on youth development,
along with programming for same in the carpentry and millwright trades in the City

of Detroit; and

Tenant shall have an appropriately quali?ed on-site facility training coordinator at the
Training Facility that is available to the public at reasonable times to direct and/or
provide information on carpentry and millwright job pathways.

City acknowledges that, in addition to its free of charge programs conducted at the
Premises as outlined above, Tenant may also provide programs that charge a fee to participants.

4. TAXES AND UTILITY CHARGES

Taxes. The parties acknowledge that the Premises is owned by the City of Detroit
and, therefore, is exempt from all taxes related to real property. The City expressly
acknowledges that the allowable uses of the Premises by Tenant under this Lease are consistent
with the charitable purposes for which the Tenant was created and that such uses are not for any
business being conducted for pro?t on the Premises. The above notwithstanding, Tenant will
pay when due all taxes assessed speci?cally against Tenant as required by law, if any. In the

event that any real property taxes are assessed Speci?cally against Tenant with respect to the
4

 

Premises, the City shall reimburse Tenant for such amounts including, but not limited to, the
following: 1) Capital Improvements completed at the Premises by Tenant and 2) any costs
incurred by Tenant to maintain the Premises, including site and building maintenance costs.

4.02 Utilities. Tenant shall be reSponsible for the costs of all utilities with respect to
the Premises. Any and all utilities for the Premises shall be paid directly to the respective utility

company by Tenant.

5. INSURANCE

5.01 Tenant shall assume all risks of its operations and use of the Premises and shall
maintain at its expense during the Lease Term the following insurance:

 

TYPE AMOUNT NOT LESS THAN
Workers' Compensation Michigan Statutory minimum
Employers? Liability $500,000.00 minimum each disease

$500,000.00 minimum each person
$500,000.00 minimum each accident

Commercial General Liability $1,000,000.00 each occurrence
Insurance (Broad Form $2,000,000.00 aggregate
Comprehensive)

Automobile Liability Insurance $1,000,000.00 combined single limit
(covering all owned, hired and for bodily injury and property damage
non-owned vehicles with
personal and property protection
insurance, including residual
liability insurance under Michigan
no fault insurance law)

Tenant?s commercial general liability insurance policy shall include an
endorsement naming the "City of Detroit" as an additional insured. The additional insured
endorsement shall provide coverage to the additional insured with reSpect to liability arising out
of the named insured?s operations at and use of the Premises. The commercial general liability
policy shall state that the Tenant?s insurance is primary and not excess over any insurance
already carried by the City of Detroit and shall provide blanket contractual liability insurance for

all written contracts.

5.03 Certi?cates of insurance evidencing the coverage required by this Section shall, in
a form acceptable to the City, be submitted to the City upon Tenant?s execution of the Lease. In

5

the event the Tenant receives notice of policy cancellation, the Tenant shall immediately notify
the City in writing.

5.04 If any work is contracted out by Tenant or for any Improvements made by Tenant
in connection with this Lease, the Tenant shall require each contractor to effect and maintain the
types and limits of insurance set forth in this Section and shall require documentation of same,

copies of which shall be furnished the City upon request.

5.05 Tenant shall be responsible for payment of all deductibles contained in any
insurance required under this Lease. The provisions requiring the Tenant to carry the insurance
required under this Section shall not be construed in any manner as waiving or restricting the

liability of the Tenant under this Lease.

?g If during the Lease Term, changed conditions or other pertinent factors, should in
the reasonable judgment of both parties, render inadequate the insurance limits stated above, the
Tenant shall ?irnish on demand such additional coverage as may reasonably be required under
the circumstances, as long as same is agreed to by the parties. All such additional insurance shall
be effected at the Tenant?s expense, under valid and enforceable policies issued by insurers of
recognized responsibility which are well-rated by national rating organizations and are

reasonably acceptable to the City.

6. INDEMNITY

The Tenant shall indemnify and save harmless the City and all other associated,
af?liated, allied or subsidiary entities or commissions now existing or hereafter created, their
agents and employees against and from any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties,
claims, costs, charges and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses
of attomeys, expert witnesses, architects, engineers and other consultants) which may be
imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against City by reason of any of the following occurring

on the Premises during the Lease Term:

any work, act, error, omission or thing done in or about the Premises, or
any part thereof or affecting same, by Tenant or its agents, subcontractors, employees,
licensees, invitees, or associated, af?liated or subsidiary entities of Tenant (herein all
collectively called ?Associates?) for whose acts any of them might be liable;

any use, nonuse, possession, occupation, condition, operation,
maintenance or management of the Premises or any part thereof or any street, alley,
sidewalk, curb, passageway or space adjacent thereto, or of Tenant equipment;

any negligent or tortious act or omission of Tenant, Tenant?s Associates or
subtenants of Tenant;

 any accident, injury or damage to any person or property occurring on the
Premises;

any failure by Tenant to perform its obligations under this Lease; and

any loss or expense incurred by an employee of the City which arises out
of or pursuant to the Tenant?s performance or nonperformance under this Lease.

The laws of the State of Michigan, as interpreted by a Michigan court of law, shall be
applied to determine percentages of fault resulting from claims successfully adjudicated for

damages by third parties against Tenant and City.

Tenant has examined and inspected the Premises, being only vacant land as of the
start of the Lease Term, and takes same The City has made no warranties or
representations of whatever nature in connection with the condition of the Premises, and the City
shall not be liable for any defects contained therein. The City makes no warranties or
representations, express or implied, as to title to its interest in the Premises.

Tenant agrees that it is its responsibility to safeguard its property and equipment
that it or its contractors use or have in their possession on or about the Premises and Tenant
agrees to hold the City harmless for any loss of such property or equipment, except as to the
City?s own negligence. Further, except as otherwise provided herein, the City shall not be
responsible or liable to the Tenant for any loss or damage that may be occasioned by or through
the acts or omissions of persons occupying adjoining premises or any part of the premises
adjacent to or connected with the Premises or ?'om any loss or damage resulting to the Tenant, or
its prOperty, from roof or wall leaks or bursting, steppage, or leaking of water, gas, sewer or
steam pipes, and the like, or for any damage or loss of property within the Premises from any
other cause whatsoever, except as to the City?s own negligence associated with same.

7. MAINTENANCE AND DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION

7._01 Tenant shall keep and maintain the Premises in good order and repair. Tenant is
responsible for all maintenance work including both the interior and exterior of any and all
structures and buildings located on said Premises. This includes, but is not limited to, routine
maintenance and major building systems maintenance and repairs. Tenant is also responsible for
maintaining the site, including all landscaping, grass cutting, snow removal, trash removal and

parking lot maintenance.

Tenant shall give notice to City if, during the Lease Term, the Premises
or any part thereof shall be damaged or destroyed by ?re or other major casualty, specifying the
date, nature and extent of such damage or destruction. Tenant shall take whatever steps as may
be necessary to prevent further damage or destruction to the Premises resulting from such fire or

other major casualty.

 In the event that any or all of the Premises shall suffer damage or
destruction at any time during the Lease Term, the respective rights and obligations of the
parties hereto with reSpect to reconstruction, repairing, and/or restoring such damage or
destruction and/or with respect to the matter of the continuance or termination of this
Lease following any such damage or destruction, shall be controlled by the provisions of

this Section.

In the event the Premises shall suffer damage or destruction then:

Tenant may perform the reconstruction, repair, and/or restoration
of such damage or destruction at its option; or

If, within a reasonable period of time after the date of any damage
or destruction, Tenant has not completed the reconstruction, repair, and/or
restoration of the damaged/destroyed area, then Tenant may terminate the Lease
by giving an advance written Notice of Termination to the City, in such case the
Tenant shall bring the Premises to a clean and safe, non-blighted condition and be

removed ?'om the Premises.

8. DEFAULT AND TERMINATION

8.01 Each of the following occurrences shall constitute a default under the Lease
(?Event of Default?):

Tenant's failure to provide either the Tenant Services and/or Capital

Improvements;

Failure by either party to perform, comply with, or observe any other
agreement or obligation under this Lease and such failure continues for a period of 30
days after the non?defaulting party delivers to the defaulting party written notice thereof;
however, if such failure is not reasonably susceptible of being cured within 30 days, then
such failure shall not constitute an Event of Default if defaulting party begins to cure
such failure within such 30-day period and thereafter diligently pursues the cure thereof
to completion, unless it is not ?Jlly cured within an additional 30 days after the initial30-

day period expires;
the ?ling of a petition by or against Tenant (1) in any bankruptcy or other

insolvency proceeding; (2) seeking any relief under any state or federal debtor relief law;
(3) for the appointment of a liquidator or receiver for all or substantially all of Tenant?s

property or for Tenant?s interest in this Lease;

 Tenant shall abandon the Premises or vacate any substantial portion of the
Premises;

the making by Tenant of an assignment for the bene?t of its creditors.

8.02 Remedies. Upon any Event of Default and after any cure periods allowable under
this Lease, the non-defaulting party may, in addition to all other rights and remedies afforded it
hereunder or by law or equity, terminate this Lease by giving defaulting party written notice

thereof.
8.03 Surrender of Premises on Termination. Notwithstanding anything in this Lease to

the contrary and upon termination or expiration of the Lease, Tenant shall surrender the Premises
with all Capital Improvements and Improvements made by Tenant or City in good working

condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted.

8.04 Tenant may terminate this Lease at Tenant?s convenience at any time up to the
date of issuance of an initial building permit for the Capital Improvements.

9. LIENS

Tenant, to the best of its ability, shall keep the Premises free from any and all
liens arising out of any work performed, materials furnished or obligations incurred by or for
Tenant.

9._02_ In the event that the Premises or any part thereof or Tenant?s leasehold interest
therein shall, at any time during the Lease Term, become subject to any vendor?s, mechanic?s,
laborer?s, material man?s or other lien, encumbrance or charge based upon the furnishing of
materials or labor to or for the bene?t of Tenant, Tenant shall cause the same, at its sole cost and
expense, to be satis?ed or discharged or bonded against within thirty (30) days after notice
thereof to Tenant given by or on behalf of the lienor. Failure to discharge such a lien by Tenant
shall be considered an Event of Default under the terms of this Lease.

10. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING
10.01 Tenant may assign, sublet, mortgage, pledge and/or transfer any of its leasehold
interest granted by this Lease.

10.02 Tenant may sublease the Premises provided that any such subtenant use: (I) is
consistent with the allowable uses under this Lease and (2) is not considered a business

conducted for pro?t.
10.03 City may require that any assigmnents or subleases allowable under this Lease be

9

conditioned on Tenant?s assignee or subtenant entering into an agreement that contains terms and
conditions approved by the City, which such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.

11. NOTICES

11.01 All notices, consents, approvals, requests and other communications (herein
collectively called ?Notices?) required or permitted under this Lease shall be given in writing

and mailed by over-night carrier, postage prepaid, and addressed as follows:

If to City:

City of Detroit

Planning and Development Department
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808
Detroit, MI 48226

With a copy to:

City of Detroit, Law Dept.
Attn: Corporation Counsel
2 Woodward, Suite 500
Detroit, MI 48226

If to Tenant:

Michigan Statewide Carpenters and Millwrights Joint Apprenticeship and
Training Fund

c/o TIC

6525 Centurion Drive

Lansing, Michigan 48917

(517)327-2135

With a copy to:

Novara Tesija Catenacci
2000 Town Center, Ste. 2370
South?eld, MI 48075

11.02 All Notices shall be deemed given on the day of mailing. Either party to this

Lease may change its address for the receipt of Notices at any time by giving written notice

thereof to the other as herein provided. Any Notice given by a party hereunder must be signed
by any authorized representative of such party.

10

12. EQUIPMENTISIGN SIPARKIN 

12.01 City acknowledges that Tenant?s permitted use of the Premises under this Lease
shall include completing the Capital Improvements. Tenant shall provide Director with
the site plans of such Capital Improvements for review and ?le.

12.02 All other changes, additions, alterations, renovations or leasehold improvements
of any nature whatsoever in or to the Premises made after the City?s approval of the Capital
Improvements (herein collectively called ?Improvements?) shall be in support of and consistent

with the allowable uses of the Premises only

12.03 All Capital Improvements and Improvements made shall be deemed to be part of
the Premises and subject to all the terms and conditions of this Lease. However, title to all
Capital Improvements and Improvements shall become the property of the City of Detroit at the
expiration or termination of the Lease Term. Tenant hereby assigns to City all contractor,
material and equipment warranties and guarantees received by Tenant in connection with the
performance of any Capital Improvement and Improvements or of any other work conducted in
or upon the Premises that remain at the expiration or termination of the Lease Term.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Capital Improvements and
Improvements do not include any personal prOperty of the Tenant.

12.04 Signage. Tenant may erect signs at its sole cost on the Premise. The Tenant must
secure prior written approval from Director, which such approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld, on the size, content and location of such sign prior to the purchase and
installation of any such sign. Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease, all signage
installed by Tenant on the Premises shall be removed, and any damage resulting from the
installation or removal thereof, or both, shall be repaired by Tenant. In the event
Tenant fails to remove said signage and/or repair said damage, if any, City may undertake such
removal and repair and the cost thereof shall be charged to Tenant as an additional fee.

12.05 Parking. Any and all Tenant plans for parking areas on the Premises must be sent
to the Director for review and ?le.
13. RIGHT OF ENTRY
13.01 City and its authorized representatives shall have the right to enter the Premises at

all reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, not less than forty eight (48) hours in advance,
for the pmpose of examining or inspecting the Premises to ensure Tenant?s compliance with this

 

Lease.

11

14. EMINENT DOMAIN

14.01 The term ?Taking? shall mean a taking prior to or during the Lease Term of all or
part of the Premises as the result of condemnation, the exercise of the power of eminent domain
or by agreement between City and the condemning authority. The term ?Date of Taking? shall
mean the date on which title is vested in the condemning authority.

14.02 In the event of a Taking of the whole of the Premises, this Lease shall terminate
on the Date of Taking.

In the event of a Taking of less than all the Premises, City within thirty (30) days
after the Date of Taking, may terminate this Lease as to the portion of the Premises that is
subject to such Taking effective on the Date of Taking. If City does not give notice of
termination of this Lease within thirty (30) days after the Date of Taking, then this Lease shall
remain in ?ill force and effect with respect to the part of the Premises not the subject of the
Taking; provided, however, if City shall be compensated for the Taking, such compensation shall
?rst go to reimburse Tenant for such amounts up to the then-current appraised value amount of
the Capital Improvements completed at the Premises by Tenant. Tenant will have the right to
terminate this Lease upon thirty (30) days written notice after the Date of Taking, effective on
the Date of Taking, in the event of a Taking of more than twenty-?ve percent of the

usable square footage of the Premises.

Except as otherwise provided in Section 14.03 above, the City is entitled to
receive the entire award for any Taking, (inclusive of the value of any and all ?xtures and
Improvements) and Tenant hereby assigns to City all its right, title and interest in and to such
award. Tenant shall be entitled to make a claim against the condemning authority only for the
value of any equipment and/or ?xtures of the Tenant and Tenant?s moving expenses which may
be compensable as a result of the Taking. Nothing contained in this Section shall be deemed to
prevent City from settling any threatened or filed condemnation proceeding.

From time to time during the Lease Term, City may, with the Tenant?s express
written consent in each instance; convey title to, or grant easements in, portions of the land
included in the Premises to governmental authorities or utility companies for road widening, curb
rounding and water, sewer, electrical, communication and other utility lines. Any such
conveyance or grant shall not be deemed a Taking unless City receives compensation therefor,
and there shall be no reduction in the Rent payable hereunder. The aforementioned
notwithstanding, any such conveyances or easements shall not inhibit Tenant?s inherent right to

quiet enjoyment of the Premises.

14.06 In the event that only a portion of the Premises will be taken as hereinabove
described and this Lease is not terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Section, then City
will, at its sole cost and expense, restore the remaining portion of the Premises to the extent
necessary to render it suitable for the purposes for which it was leased, provided that the cost

thereof will not exceed the proceeds of its condemnation award.


.-

15. FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES

15.01 Tenant covenants that it shall not discriminate against any employee or applicant
for employment, training, education, or apprenticeship connected directly or indirectly with the
performance of this Lease, with reSpect to his or her hire, promotion, job assignment, tenure,
terms, conditions or privileges of employment because of religion, race, color, creed, national
origin, age, marital status, handicap, public bene?t status, sex, or sexual orientation. This
provision shall not apply if it is determined by City?s Human Rights Department that such
requirements are bona ?de occupational quali?cations reasonably necessary to the performance
of the duties required by employment. The burden of proof that the occupational quali?cations
are bona tide is upon Tenant. Tenant shall fumislr any information reasonably required

by City or its Human Rights Department pursuant to this Section.

Tenant ?rrther agrees that it shall notify any Associate of Tenant?s
obligations relative to non?discrimination under this Lease when soliciting an Associate
and shall include the provisions of this Section in any contract or subcontract relating to
Tenant's performance under this Lease as well as provide City with a copy of any such
contract or subcontract upon request. Tenant further agrees to take such action with
respect to any such subcontract as Tenant may direct as a means of enforcing the

provisions of this Section.

Breach of the terms and conditions of this Section shall be regarded as a
material breach of this Lease if such breach shall continue for more than thirty (30) days
after receipt of notice of such breach by Tenant. In the event Tenant fails to comply with
this Section, City, at its option may utilize such remedies as may be provided by law.

16. WASTE AND NUISANCE

16.01 The Tenant shall not commit or suffer to be committed any waste upon the
Premises, and shall not place a load, machinery, or equipment upon the Premises which exceeds
the load per square foot area which such area can carry. Tenant shall not commit or suffer to be
comnritted any nuisance or other act or thing which may disturb the quiet enjoyment of any

neighbor to the Premises.

17. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE

17.01 Hazardous Materials. Tenant shall not use, handle, generate, treat, store or
dispose of, or permit the handling, generation, treatment, storage or disposal of any hazardous
waste, substance or toxic materials regulated under any federal, state or local environmental
laws, regulations or ordinances (?Hazardous Materials?) in, on, under, around or above the

13

Premises during the Lease Term unless the Tenant follows all laws and regulations in doing so.
Tenant hereby indemni?es the City from any and all liability that may arise ?om such activities
beginning on the date of Lease Term. Any and all claims, costs, expenses, ?nes, and losses of
any kind (including but not limited to those arising from injury to or the death of any person,
damage to or loss of use or value of real or personal property, and costs of investigation, cleanup,
and attorneys? and consultants? fees) incurred by City which arise solely due to the acts,
omissions, or failure to act of Tenant, its agents, employees, contractors, and servants and arising
out of or are related to Tenant?s use of the Premises during the Lease Term shall constitute
additional fees and shall be payable within thirty (30) days after receipt of City?s invoice and
supporting documentation. Tenant shall not be responsible for any Hazardous Materials found

on the Premises that were introduced prior to the Lease Term.

17.02 Hazardous Materials Remediation. Tenant shall assume the sole responsibility of
all environmental response and remediation of Hazardous Materials that are introduced into the
Premises by the Tenant, its associates or agents. In the event Tenant shall discover Hazardous
Materials within the Premises, Tenant shall notify City and advise City of its plans for
environmental response and remediation of the Hazardous Materials. Except for those Hazardous
Materials introduced into the Premises by City, City shall not be responsible for the costs to
abate any Hazardous Materials introduced into the Premises by the Tenant, its associates or any
third party. Tenant shall not be responsible for remediating any Hazardous Materials introduced

to the Premises prior to the Lease Term.

18. SUBORDINATION

18.01 The City acknowledges that there are no mortgages, encumbrances, or deeds of
trust that are currently existing on the Premises that the Tenant would otherwise be required to be

subordinate to.

19. BANKRUPTCY 0R 

Iii); Tenant agrees that if the estate created hereby shall be taken in execution, or by
other process of law, or if Tenant shall be declared bankrupt or insolvent according to law, or
any receiver, custodian or trustee be appointed for the business and preperty of Tenant, or if any
assignment shall be made of the Tenant?s property for the bene?t of creditors, then and in any
such events, this Lease may be terminated at the option of the City as an event of default by
Tenant in accordance with the termination provisions set forth herein.

20. HOLDING OVER

20.01 If Tenant retains possession of the Premises or any part thereof after the
expiration or termination of this Lease by lapse of time or otherwise, Tenant shall continue its

14

tenancy from month to month under the same terms and conditions. The provisions of this
Section shall not be deemed to limit or exclude any of the City?s rights of reentry or any other
right granted to City according to the terms of this Lease or under law.

21. QUIET POSSESSION

21.01 The City covenants that the Tenant, upon its observing the terms and conditions
of this Lease, shall and may peacefully and quietly have, hold and enjoy the Premises during
Lease Term free from unreasonable interference by City.

22. AMENDMENTS

22.01 The Tenant or City may from time to time consider it in its best interest to change,
modify or extend a term, condition or covenant of this Lease. Any such change, modi?cation or
extension, which is mutually agreed upon by and between the parties shall be incorporated in a
written amendment (?Amendment?) to this Lease. Such Amendment shall require separate
approval by Detroit City Council. Such Amendment shall not invalidate this Lease nor relieve or
release the parties of any of its obligations under the Lease unless stated therein.

23. OPTION TO PURCHASE

23.01 Option to Purchase. The City hereby grants the Tenant an option to purchase the
Premises at any time during the Lease Term upon the mutual agreement of the parties of a
reasonable purchase price and approval by Detroit City Council of such a sale of the Premises to

Tenant.

g4. MISCELLANEOUS

24.01 No failure by City or Tenant to insist upon the strict performance of any covenant,
agreement, term or condition of this Lease or to exercise any right, power or remedy consequent
upon a breach thereof and no acceptance of full or partial rent by City during the continuance of
any such breach by City shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such covenant,
agreement, term or condition. No waiver of any breach shall affect or alter this Lease, but each
and every covenant, agreement, term and condition of this Lease shall continue in full force and

effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequent breach thereof.

24.02 The rights and obligations contained in this Lease shall bind and inure to the
bene?t of City and Tenant and, except as otherwise provided herein, their respective personal
representatives, successors and assigns; provided, however, the obligations of City and Tenant
under this Lease shall no longer be binding upon City after the sale, assignment, or transfer by

15

City or Tenant, respectively (or upon any subsequent City or Tenant), of its interest in the
Premises, as owner, City or Tenant, respectively, and in the event of any such sale, assignment,
or transfer, such obligations shall thereafter be binding upon the grantee, assignee, or other
transferee of such interest, and any such grantee, assignee, or transferee, by accepting such
interest, shall be deemed to have assumed such obligations. A lease of the entire Premises, other
than for occupancy thereof, shall be deemed a transfer within the meaning of this Section.

If any provision of this Lease or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease, or the
application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is
invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and each provision of this Lease shall be

valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

24.04 This Lease shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the
State of Michigan. The Tenant agrees, consents and submits to the personal jurisdiction of any
competent court in Wayne County, Michigan for any action brought against it arising under this
Lease. The Tenant agrees that service of process at the address and in the manner speci?ed in
Section 11 will be suf?cient to put the Tenant on notice and hereby waive any and all claims
relative to such notice. The Tenant and City also agree that they will not commence any action
against the other party because of any matter whatsoever arising out of or related to the validity,
construction, interpretation, and enforcement of this Lease in any courts other than those in the
County of Wayne, State of Michigan unless original jurisdiction can be had in either the
Michigan Court of Appeals, Michigan Supreme Court or the US. District Court for the Eastem

District of Michigan, Southern Division.

24.05 This Lease or any part of this Lease may not be changed, waived, discharged or
terminated orally, but only by an instrument in writing.

24.06 This instrument, including the Exhibits hereto, contains the entire agreement
between the parties and all prior negotiations and agreements are merged herein. Neither Tenant,
the Tenant's agents, City nor the City?s agents have made any representations or warranties with
re5pect to the Premises or this Lease, except as expressly set forth herein, and no rights, or
remedies are or shall be acquired by Tenant or City by implication or otherwise unless expressly

set forth herein.

24.07 The parties agree that neither this Lease nor any memorandum or short form
thereof may be recorded without the prior consent of both parties.

24.08 The relationship between the parties hereto is solely that of landlord and tenant
and nothing herein contained shall constitute or be construed as establishing any other
relationship between them including, without limitation, the relationship of principal and agent,
employer and employee or parties engaged in a partnership or joint venture. Without limiting the
foregoing, it is speci?cally understood that neither party is the agent of the other and neither is in
any way empowered to bind the other or to use the name of the other in connection with the

16

construction, maintenance or operation of the Premises, except as otherwise speci?cally
provided herein.

24.09 Unless the context otherwise expressly requires, the words ?herein?, ?hereof? and
?hereunder? and other words of similar import refer to this Lease as a whole and not to any

particular Section.

24.10 All the terms and provisions of this Lease shall be deemed and construed to be
?covenants? and ?conditions? as though the words speci?cally expressing or importing
covenants and conditions were used in each separate term and provision.

24.11 The headings of the Sections in this Lease are for convenience only and shall not
be used to construe or interpret the sc0pe or intent of this Lease or in any way affect the same.

24.12 Neither party shall be responsible for force majeure events. In the event of a
dispute between the parties with regard to what constitutes a force majeure event, the
determination of a court with appropriate jurisdiction, in compliance with the terms set forth

herein, shall be controlling.

24.13 The Tenant warrants that it is currently authorized to do business in the State of
Michigan and is amendable to service of process at the address stated in Section 11.

24.14 This Lease may be executed in any number of counterparts and all of said
counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument. 
alter the execution hereof the City shall transmit to the Tenant a conformed copy of this Lease.

24.15 The parties represent that they have not dealt with any brokers or ?nders in
connection with this Lease. Each party agrees to hold the other harmless from and against any
loss, damage, costs, or expenses, including court costs and reasonable attorney fees that the other
may suffer as a result of the breach of the foregoing representation made by each party.

25.16 Authorityr of City. Notwithstanding anything in this Lease or otherwise to the
contrary, the City shall not be authorized or obligated to lease the Premises to Tenant until this
Lease has been fully executed by the duly authorized representatives of the City, as well as
approved by the Detroit City Council, the Mayor of the City of Detroit, the City of Detroit Law
Department and any other City ?nancial review commission or board as required by law. Any
amendments or modi?cations must likewise be duly approved by the City Council, the Mayor,

and the Law Department.

17

IN WITNESS WI-IEREOF, the City and the Tenant, by and through their authorized of?cers
and representatives, have executed this Lease as follows:

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANN . VELOPMENT PARTMENT

Q: I
I 'l


Print: LOV-

    

   
  
 

  

ITS: ?Lat/min?

TENANT:
MICHIGAN STATEWIDE CARPENTERS

AND MILLWRIGHTS JOINT
APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING FUND

BY: Agnew; 
Print: fa nay/3'. 


ITS: WW
(7

 

Approved by Detroit City Council on:

 

 

Chief Procurement Officer

In accordance with ?18-5-4 of the Detroit City Approved as to form in accordance with 7.5?
Code, I hereby certify that proper and fair 206 of the 2012 City of Detroit Charter.

consideration has been received by the City
pursuant to this Lease.

 

 

Finance Director Supervising Assistant Corporation Counsel

THIS LEASE IS NOT VALID OR AUTHORIZED UNTIL APPROVED BY THE
DETROIT CITY COUNCIL AND SIGNED BY THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT

OFFICER.
8

RESOLUTION OF THE MICHIGAN STATEWIDE CARPENTERS AND
MILLWRIGHTS JOINT APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING FUND

The Michigan Statewide Carpenters and Millwrights Joint Apprenticeship and Training
Fund (the ?Fund?), whose address is known as 6525 Centtuion Drive, Lansing, Michigan 48917,
is negotiating the lease of real property located in the City of Detroit, recognized as the Tappan
School site, commonly known as 7515 Elmhurst, as well as other City owned property in the
vicinity on both Webb and Elmhurst streets (the ?Property?).

The Fund has determined that the leasing of the Property is necessary to ?irther the
purposes for which the Fund has been established.

RESOLVED, that Randy Sowell, the Consultant retained by the Fund, is authorized to
negotiate and execute any and all documents in connection with the lease of the Property from the

City of Detroit.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLNED, that Randy J. Sowell is authorized to, in conjunction with
the authorized representatives of the Fund (or its assigns) to take all steps necessary for the
development or construction of improvements on the Property and to make all of such
arrangements, to do and perform all such acts and things, to execute and deliver all such certi?cates
and other instruments and documents, and to do everything that they may deem necessary,
appropriate, or desirable in order to fully implement the foregoing resolution, subject to ratification
by the Fund?s Trustees, or independent ?duciary retained by them.

The undersigned Fund Trustees hereby certify that the foregoing resolution is a true and
correct copy of the Resolution adopted by the Trustees of the Michigan Statewide Carpenters and
Millwrights Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund.

DATED: November 7, 2018



Michael Bamwell, Chairman Trustee

to. WW

Donna Pardonnet, Secretary Trustee

Carpenters and Millwright JATC\Resolutions\Tappan School Site.Rev l.docx

19

EXHIBIT A

DESCRIPTION OF THE PREMISES

?qu-

lithe addresses listed below.
Iway??f'

 

The Premises consists of approximately 7 acres, more or less, as generally depicted above and
inclusive of the following City of Detroit property addresses:

7515 Elmhurst
7238 Webb
7228 Webb
7222 Webb
7216 Webb
7441 Elmhurst
7431 Elmhurst
7425 Elmhurst
7421 Elmhurst



20

CERTIFICATE OF TRUST EXISTENC AND AUTHORITY

The undersigned "Af?ant" being ?rst duly sworn, deposes and states that:

1.

Af?ant, whose address is 2000 Town Center, Suite 2370, South?eld, Michigan 48075,
is an Attorney for the Trustees of the Michigan Statewide Carpenters and 
Joint Apprenticeship and Training Fund, under that certain Agreement and Declaration of
Trust effective September 1, 2014 (the "Trust"), which has not since been amended.

The Trust authorizes the Trustees to lease or purchase such premises as in their discretion
the Trustees may deem necessary or appropriate, including the lease of the Premises

described in this Lease.

The provisions of the Trust which recite the powers and restrictions on the powers of
the Trustees relating to real property are set forth in the Trust.

The Trust remains in full force and effect and is govemed by both Federal laws and the
laws of Michigan.

The current authorized and acting Trustee(s) of the Trust are: See Exhibit 

The Certi?cate is given pursuant to MCL 565.432; MSA 26.7450) to give record
notice of the Trust and to enable purchasers or other parties to rely on the information
contained herein without further examination of the Trust agreement and any

amendment(s) thereto.

AF FIANT:



Written-Bryan M. Beckerrnan

STATE OF MICHIGAN 



COUNTY OF OAKLAND 

Subscribed and sworn to before me this low day of December, 2018, appeared, Bryan M.
Becker-man to be known as the person described in and who executed the foregoing

instrument and acknowledged it was his/her free act and deed.

1,094on M?mg ,Notary Public,

WAYM County, Michigan

Acting in Oakland County, Michigan
My Commission Expires: 0 3&3 [2022.

MCHIGAN STATEWIDE CARPENTERS AND NIILLWRIGHTS JOINT

APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING FUND
ROSTER OF 
EMPLOYER TRUSTEES

Architectural Contractors Trade Assn.

Donna Pardonnet (ACTA) (C)

Gary Benjamin (AGC)

Dannis Mitchell (AGC)

Jim Judd (ACTA)

Harry M. Somerset, (MCMA)

Jim Schultz (MCMA)

Bob Spence, (AGC)

Barbara Strachan (AGC)

2524 Harte Drive

Gundlach Champion, Inc.
180 Traders Mine Road

Barton Malow Company
25600 American Drive

Master Craft Floors
15001 Fogg Street

Duke Dulce
25566 Road

Central Conveyor Company
52800 Pontiac Trail

Spence Brothers
41 7 McCroskIy

7443 Creekside Drive

Brighton
481 14

Iron Mountain
4980]

. South?eld

48034

Plymouth
48170

Taylor
48180

Wixom
48393

Saginaw
48601-2535

Lansing
48917

MICHIGAN STATEWIDE AND MILLWRIGHTS JOINT

APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING FUND
ROSTER OF TRUSTEES
ALTERNATE EMPLOYER TRUSTEES

Scott D. Fisher (AGC) AGC of Michigan
2323 North Larch
Dave Hurst An'steo, GM

12811 Farmington Road

Phil Ruf?n (ACTA) Pontiac Ceiling Partition
715 Auburn Road

EMPLOYEE TRUSTEES
Michael Barnwell (MRCC) (S) 23401 Mound Road

Michael J. Jackson, Sr. (MRCC) Michigan Regional Council of Carp.

400 Renaissance Center, Suite 1010

Brian Ken-igan (MRCC) 1221 Division Street
Kevin Klingler (MRCC) 2310 West Washtenaw Avenue
Doyle Goble (MRCC) 23401 Mound

Lansing
48906

Livonia
48 1 50

Pontiac
48342

Warren
4809]

Detroit
48243

Marquette
49855

Lansing
48917

Warren
4809]

MICHIGAN STATEWIDE AND MILLWRIGHT JOINT

Tom Lutz (MRCC)
Bart Nickerson (MRCC)

Leon Tumwald (MRCC)

Bill Kenney (MRCC)

APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING FUND

ROSTER OF TRUSTEES (CONTINUED)

EMPLOYEE TRUSTEES (CONTINUED)
23401 Mound

400 Renaissance Center
Suite 1010

Carpenters? Local No. 706
3160 Commerce Centre

ALTERNATE EMPLOYEE TRUSTEES

Millwrights Local 1102
3617 Gembrit Circle

Warren
48091

Detroit
48243

Saginaw

48601

Kalamazoo
49001

ATTACHMENT 1

Environmental Inquiry Report

Acquisition of 8 Properties from
Detroit Land Bank Authority

This report includes a visual inspection and a land use history for 8 properties (?Acquisition
Parcels?) to be acquired by the City of Detroit from the Detroit Land Bank Authority. Land use
was determined by review of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance and the City?s Sanborn ?les for years
2002 and 1969, as well as City records giving the ?year built? for housing stock in the immediate

area.

Based on the review indicated above, the Acquisition Parcels have been used strictly for single-
family residential purposes for the last 50 years or more and, therefore, it was found by the City?s
Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department Environmental Affairs Division
that it is unlikely that the Acquisition Parcels would pose an adverse environmental impact.

FEBRUARY 2019

Parcel 1

 

WEBB 41REAR OF LOT 10 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49
PLATS, 16/203 41.2 IRREG

a/k/a 7238 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005554

Parcel 2

 

 

WEBB EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203
30 128.56

a/k/a 7228 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005555

Parcel 3

 

WEBB 30 FT LOT 10 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203 30 128.56

a/k/a 7222 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005556

Parcel 4

 

WEBB 32.5 FT LOT 9 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 FLATS, 16/203 32.5 
128.56

a/k/a 7216 Webb
Tax Parcel ID 16005557001

 

ELMHURST 50 FT OF LOT 33 EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 16/203 50 
128.56

a/k/a 7441 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005743

Parcel 6

 

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 
16/203 34 128.56

a/k/a 7431 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005742

Parcel 7

 

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS,
16/203 34 128.56

a/k/a 7425 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005741

Parcel 8

 

ELMHURST EVERGREEN SUB L25 P49 PLATS, 
16/203 35 128.56

a/k/a 7421 Elmhurst
Tax Parcel ID 16005740

 

98

(?fty nf ZBetrnit

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
DISTRICT 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Kevin Johnson, President and CEO, Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
Donald Rencher, Director, Housing and Revitalization Department
Council Member James Tate, Chair, Planning Economic Development Committee

FROM: Council President Pro Tem Mary Shef?elctj?j'
DATE: March 6, 2019
RE: Request for Affordable Housing Information Related to Residential Housing

Developments which Received Tax Incentives

 

According to a report provided by the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, there have been 93
projects approved for tax incentives since 2015. Of those 93 projects, 40 have been completed
and 30 have submitted their ?nal data to the DEGC. I would like answers to the following
questions regarding these publicly-subsidized projects:

. Of the 93 projects, how many are residential developments?
. How many of the residential developments have affordable housing agreements?
. Who is responsible for monitoring the affordable housing agreements for these projects?

. How are the affordable housing agreements monitored and what methods are used to
verify the number of units, rents charged and the income of the residents? If the projects
are not monitored, what is plan to do so moving forward?

. Of the completed projects, how many failed to meet to their affordable housing target? If
any, what were the consequences of failing to produce the affordable units and/or rent to
low-income tenants?

Cc: Honorable Colleagues
Honorable City Clerk
Legislative Policy Division
Stephanie Washington, Liaison, Mayor?s Of?ce

 

ditty nf 

CITY COUNCIL

 

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE

DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

T0: Saskia Thompson, Executive Director, Detroit Land Bank Authority

FROM: Council President Pro Tempore eld, Chair, Neighborhoods and
Community Services Committee

TI-IRU: James Tate, Chair, Planning and Ec ic Development Committee

DATE: March 8, 2019

RE: Amendments to DLBA MOU

 

My of?ce is proposing the following amendments to the proposed MOU between the
DLBA and the City of Detroit:

The DLBA must draft a clear policy on residential land sales not covered under
any of the current disposition programs.

Any new DLBA program must be approved by Detroit City Council prior to
implementation.

Any use of City funds or demolition advance funds above the $25,000 HHF limit
must be approved by City Council prior to the use of funds.

The DLBA must provide City Council with a quarterly report pertaining to active
Nuisance Abatement lawsuits.

Any transfer or sale of DLBA property at below-market value must be approved
by City Council.

Remove the limit of 2 annual community meetings per Council District.

The DLBA must provide a list of all occupied foreclosed properties transferred
from the Wayne County Tax ForeCIOSure Auction prior to transfer to the Land
Bank.

Please contact Ari Ruttenberg at 313-224-4505 if you have any questions.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


