Committee on Finance
Documenter Name: Amaniyea Glover
Agency: Chicago City Council
Date: March 11,2019
❖ The room is set up like a mini congressional chamber. A half moon bank of plush blue
desk with mics and swivel chairs. Tp the right is press box and to the left is another box
with assorted government officials. The back half of the room is open to the public,
❖ There are about 80 attendees. The majority of which are protestors with the Coalition for
the Homeless about 60 individuals. Who were protesting outside of the chamber before
the meeting adjourned.
❖ The overall atmosphere of the guest seemed positive but determined at the beginning of
the meeting.
❖ Referendum by Chicago voters to increase The real estate transfer tax for the benefit of
providing homelessness resources
➢
➢ The ides is to tax City of Chicago citizens in a high tax bracket more taxes to
cover the homeless population
➢ “The referendum would ask voters to ​increase​ the city's real estate 

transfer tax by 1
​ 60 percent​ on properties that sell for more than $1 
million; that would make the tax $9.75 per $500 of sales price, up from the 
current $3.75 per $500.”
https://chicago.suntimes.com/business/brown-real-estate-transfer-tax-homelessnes
s/

➢  
➢ Alderman Maldanado “it would be a shame not to pass this referendum”
➢ Another Council member suggest that this is not the council with jurisdiiction over
this proceeeding. The council votes to see if they should vote on the referendum.
➢ The vote is recounted aprox. 5 times
➢ In an 11vs. 10 count the referendum is not heard by this council
➢ The protestors were livid they got up and chanted as they left,....”Housing is a
human right, we will stand we will fight”
➢ The mood in the room shifted it was a bone chilling anger and rage that swept
across the room as the protestors chanted and an outcry from one protestor “We
will be back”
➢ 20 attendees are left to listen to the rest of the proceedings
❏ Jamie di Paulo
❏ Recomendation for Jamie di Paulo as a member of the Chicago Development
Fund Advisory Board
❏ What is this Board?
➔ - ​Investing in Chicago's Low-Income Communities. Founded in July 

2005 by the City of Chicago, the Chicago Development Fund (​CDF​) 

 is a n
​ on​-profit corporation that provides capital to qualifying 
projects and businesses in low-income areas of Chicago through 
the use of ​New Markets Tax Credits​ (​NMTCs​)
➔ https://chicagodevelopmentfund.lorg/whoweare/ 

➔ The vote in in favor of appointing Jamie di Paulo
➔ A council member proceeded to explain what the board was responsible
for…..
◆ 356 mill dollars in new tax credits
◆ Allocation of funds for new economic development
◆ Creation of affordable housing
❏ Dorothy Huddson
❏ Reapointment of Dorothy as a member of Special Service area number 5, the
commercial avenur commission
❏ Vote is passed
❏
★ Lorainne J.Reiff Liakouras
○

Prpposed reapointment of Liakouras as a member of Special Service Area
Number 16, the Greektown/Halstead Commission

○

●

Vote is passed

A communication transmitting a list of cases in which judgementss or settlements were
entered into for the month of December 2018
○

Vote is passed

➢ Ordinance to execute ordinance on a Board of Education building, Namedly Edwin G.
Foreman High School
○

3235 N. LeClaire Ave.

○

https://lowellsfirstlook.com/major-middle-school-renovation-other-updates-planne
d-by-las/

○

Order was Passed

❏ Proposed ordinance concerning the authority to approve a Class C Real Estate Tax
incentive for Tennis Corporation of America Inc. and Columbia Equities LLC for property
located at 2427 and 2480 North Elston.

 ❏ They have a witness to represent for them
❏ This is a big retail projejct, …..Micheals , athletico, hotel , residential units
❏ 1.3 million in tax revenue
❏ There requesting a Class C Real Estate Tax Incentive
❏ “ ​Designed to encourage industrial and commercial development throughout
Cook County by offering a tax incentive for the ​remediation of contaminated
properties​ including abandoned property or vacant
land”​http://www.cookcountyassessor.com/PdfForms/Incentive-Forms.aspx
❏ http://www.pioneer-environmental-services.com/642-2/
❏ Questions were raised on how they allocated funds to minority causes?
❏ City resident gave testimony and was very adamant about this being pay for play
and that it is unjust to pass this.
❏ This is passed and moves onto the larger board another vote
❏
★ Bonds
○

Carol Brown, the chief financial officer is called to speak on the bond budget

○

Aking for 628 Million in bonds for a 2 year period

○

This money will be repayed with a property tax levy

○

For a Capital improvement program
■

Aldermanic menu

■

Facilitiets

■

CDOC

■

Many thank yous to Carol Brown for her service, it seems as if she will be
resigning soon

■

Viaducts
●

Conversation about a survey of all the viaducts is needed as opposed to
calls from alderman taking precedence

Vote passed
●

3 casses of settlements- small claims
all passed
●

Congress Theater
○

9.65 million in Tiff money to renovate the theater

○

https://www.eastbournetheatres.co.uk/news/refurbishment-begins-congress

 ○

Landmark status

○

Music venue

○

Will also have retail /apartment component ( 14 afforaable housing units)

○

Vote passed

 