Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Human Relations Committee
Tuesday, March 19, 2019

1:45 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-2320
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 02/19/2019
19-1971
Sponsored by: ALMA E. ANAYA, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING
THE
U.S.
CONGRESS
TO
PROVIDE
EMERGENCY
LEGISLATION
TO
PREVENT
THE
DEPORTATION
OF
RECIPIENTS
OF
DEFERRED
ACTION
FOR
CHILDHOOD ARRIVALS (DACA) AND TEMPORARY PROTECTED STATUS (TPS) TO
STABILIZE THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIO-EMOTIONAL WELL-BEING OF IMPACTED

Page 1 of 3

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 19, 2019

YOUTH AND THEIR FAMILIES
WHEREAS, the separation of children from their parents is a violation of the human rights; and
WHEREAS, the rights of children should be protected so that they stay with their families; this is a core
value of the democratic ideals of this country; and
WHEREAS, the current situation is forcing many U.S. citizen children to leave their communities and
struggle to begin anew in their parents’ countries of origin. Often, they are placed in situations in which
their rights as U.S. citizens are denied as well as their universal rights as children; and
WHEREAS, the five million U.S. citizen children and two million children brought to this nation as
infants, and raised here among U.S. citizens, should not be deprived of the sacred right to family and
parental guidance and support upon unnecessary separation; and
WHEREAS, President Obama issued executive orders which provided the deferral of deportation and
the provision of work authorization for undocumented individuals brought to this country as minors and
further established the practice of prosecutorial discretion to defer deportations until the Congress could
arrive at a permanent solution; and
WHEREAS, in spite of the continuing threat of injustice to children, the current administration has
cancelled those practices without Congress having established any alternative; and
WHEREAS, these provisions represented a just and much needed temporary relief and should be
maintained by act of Congress; and
WHEREAS, the children of those undocumented individuals are being forced every day to endure the
unimaginable pain and damage of family separation or deportation; and
WHEREAS, parents with U.S. citizen children who were given protected status through prosecutorial
discretion and who reported regularly to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) as they were
required were among the first to be deported under this administration; and
WHEREAS, there has been a 250% increase over the last year in deportations of those with no criminal
records, most of which have families and children, with the likelihood that these numbers will continue to
increase; and
WHEREAS, at least 325,000 Salvadorans, Nicaraguans, Hondurans, and Haitians have lived in this
country for many years and have established families with 273,000 U.S. born citizen children, as well as
other children brought here at an early age who have known no other country, now face the cancellation
of TPS and are being deported; and

Page 2 of 3

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

March 19, 2019

WHEREAS, the psychological, educational, health, and economic effects of separation from their parents
have long-term effects on a child’s quality-of-life.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Cook County Board President and the Cook County
Board of Commissioners resolve this day that Congress should pass legislation that provides the right to
visas for the undocumented parents of U.S. citizen children or DACA eligible children, and of
TPS-recipient parents with U.S. citizen children or DACA-eligible children; and
FURTHER BE IT RESOLVED, that these Visas should be renewable every three years on proof of
the continued verification of the original conditions of issue; and
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners urge our congressional
representatives to pass such legislation with all deliberate speed to immediately stop this violation of the
human rights of children and their rights as U.S. citizens.
Legislative History :

2/21/19 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Human Relations Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Deer
Vice-Chairman: K. Morrison
Members:
Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin

Page 3 of 3

 