Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, November 15, 2018 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1950
W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chair Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chair M. Hill Hammock (Substitute Member) and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim and
Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (3)

Absent:

Chair Hon. Jerry Butler and Director Robert G. Reiter, Jr. (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Operations
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Finance and Strategy

II.

Donna Hart – Chief Information Officer
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – Director of Internal Audit
Dean Sorensen – Information Security Officer

Public Speakers
Acting Chair Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (Attachment #1)
Cathy Bodnar, Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer, provided an overview of the information
contained in the Report. Dean Sorensen, Information Security Officer, reviewed the information regarding
security intelligence and controls. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
The report included information on the following subjects:





Review Privacy and Security Rules
Recognize the National Landscape
Discuss Current Internal Activity
View Cook County Health Measures for Compliance – Proactive and Reactive

During the review of the information regarding security intelligence and controls, the Committee discussed
the subject of securing the health information exchange between CCHHS providers and providers from
outside organizations who share data on a patient. Mr. Sorensen stated that those exchanges can be secure,
but the organizations have to be on the same page on how to do it. Donna Hart, Chief Information Officer,
provided additional information regarding MHN Connect, which is a mechanism that allows this
organization to receive and share information in a secure fashion on patients with other organizations who
are part of that network.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, November 15, 2018
Page 2

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, September 20, 2018
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to accept the
minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of September 20, 2018.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Report from Director of Internal Audit
B. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to recess the
open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following
exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the
appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or
against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(29), regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and
governmental audit committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the
discussion involves internal control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk
areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards of the United States of America.” THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Acting Chair Hammock declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

VI.

The

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chair Hammock declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Acting Chair

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, November 15, 2018
Page 3

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/Follow-up:
There were no requests for follow-up at this meeting.

 