BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA
Wednesday, March 20, 2019, 9:00 AM
Consent Calendar Meeting

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver
testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three
(3) minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda
and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
CONSENT CALENDAR

Pursuant to Cook County Code, the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners hereby transmits Consent
Calendar Resolutions for your consideration. The Consent Calendar Resolutions shall be published in the
Post Board Action Agenda and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
19-1995
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
EARTH WEEK RESOLUTION 2019
WHEREAS, Earth Day, observed every year on April 22 to diversify, educate and activate
environmental movement worldwide, now has over one billion people participating across the globe; and

the

WHEREAS, sustainable communities are a core policy priority for Cook County; and
WHEREAS, sustainable communities thrive economically, socially and environmentally, and promote the
goal of equity in Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Cook County’s Policy Roadmap commits us to ensuring environmental justice, promoting
sustainable development, fighting climate change, promoting green jobs for all, and building the capacity of
our communities to create a sustainable and resilient future; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has reduced greenhouse gas emissions from its building energy use by 32
percent since 2010, towards its goal of becoming carbon neutral by the year 2050, by developing energy
efficiency and renewable energy projects; and
WHEREAS, Cook County implemented the Green Buildings Program that looks holistically at the design,
space utilization, operations and life cycle impact of County owned properties to become a model for
sustainable asset management that minimizes environmental impacts, improves the health and wellness of
communities, and increases the value of County assets to optimize taxpayer dollars; and
WHEREAS, Cook County supports sustainable communities through promoting community solar and

Page 2 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

energy efficiency for residents, helping to return brownfields to productive use, promoting transit and other
non-auto alternative transportation modes, increasing recycling, and in many other ways; and
WHEREAS, Cook County is working with its employees, residents and communities to raise awareness
and encourage adoption of energy efficiency, renewable energy and sustainable practices.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that the
week of April 21 to 27, 2019 be declared Earth Week in Cook County...end

19-2190
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and JOHN P. DALEY, Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
CONGRATULATING
KATHY
WEISS
BOTICA
RETIREMENT FROM COOK COUNTY GOVERNMENT

ON

THE

OCCASION

OF

HER

WHEREAS, Kathy Weiss Botica has been a dedicated, loyal public servant employee for Cook County
Government for 33 years; and
WHEREAS, Kathy Weiss Botica began her career at Cook County in 1986 as a Clerk V for the
Department of Construction, Maintenance and Operations under President George W. Dunne, and
subsequently worked under President’s Richard Phalen, John H. Stroger, Bobbie L. Steele, Todd Stroger
and Toni Preckwinkle; and
WHEREAS, Kathy Weiss Botica remained with Construction, Maintenance and Operations through the
Chicago River Flood in 1992 and Y2K in 2000; and
WHEREAS, Kathy Weiss Botica became the Business Manager for Facilities Management Business
Group in 1994, where she developed and managed contracts that allowed Facilities Management to
ethically maintain and operate Cook County Facilities in a safe and cost-effective manner, all while
ensuring vendors were paid in a timely manner; and
WHEREAS, Kathy is known for her countless hours volunteering for Special Olympics, helping those
with special needs; and
WHEREAS, Kathy is grateful for all of her co-workers who have turned into lifelong friends; and
WHEREAS, Kathy Weiss Botica appreciates many things, but her greatest love is the love she has for
her family, including her husband, Marty, her children, Marti, Danie and Toni, her mother Mariann, siblings
and in-laws, 26 nieces and nephews, and 10 great nieces and nephews; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does

Page 3 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

hereby wish Kathy Weiss Botica well in her retirement.
19-2314
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
DECLARING MARCH 2019 “SOCIAL WORK MONTH”
WHEREAS, the Social Work Profession is dedicated to enhancing well-being and helping meet the basic
needs of all people, especially those who are vulnerable, oppressed and living in poverty; and
WHEREAS, this year’s Social Work Month theme, “Elevate Social Work” embodies the need to
recognize the extraordinary contributions of the profession to our society; and
WHEREAS, the Social Work profession is expected to grow faster than average over the next seven
years, with more than 682,000 people expected to be employed as social workers by 2026; and
WHEREAS, Social Workers elevate and empower people, giving them the ability to solve problems, cope
with personal roadblocks and get the resources they need to succeed; and
WHEREAS, the Social Work profession is deeply weaved into our society with social workers active in
government, schools, universities, social service agencies, communities, corporations, the military and in
health care and mental health care settings; and
WHEREAS, Social Workers are the largest group of providers of mental health services in the United
States and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is one of the largest employers of social workers
holding advanced degrees; and
WHEREAS, Social Workers travel across the nation and world to help people in crisis, helping them
overcome issues such as death and grief, epidemics, environmental pollution and natural disasters such as
wildfires, hurricanes and floods; and
WHEREAS, Social Workers for decades have been in the forefront on social justice, pushing for equal
rights for women, African Americans, Latinos, people who are disabled, people who are LGBTQ and
various ethnic, cultural and religious groups; and
WHEREAS, the Social Work Profession for more than a century has been on the cutting edge of helping
create changes to make our society a better place to live, including voting rights, improved workplace
safety, a minimum wage and social safety net programs that ameliorate poverty and hunger; and
WHEREAS, Social Workers stand ready to help our society overcome current pressing issues, including
equal rights for all, the need for improved availability of health care and mental health services;

Page 4 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

immigration reform; voting rights and the environmental impact of global warming; and
WHEREAS, Cook County employs social workers in various agencies, including but not limited to, the
Bureau of Administration’s Department of Adoption and Family Supportive Services, which provides
professional home-based social investigations that courts rely on in making critical decisions affecting the
safety and well-being of children involved in adoption, probate, dissolution of marriage and parentage
proceedings; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the month of March 2019 be proclaimed as Social
Work Month in recognition of the numerous contributions made by Cook County’s Social Workers, and
that all residents be called upon to join Cook County and the National Association of Social Workers in
celebration and support of the Social Work Profession. ..end

19-2316
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING
AND
FOUNDATION

RECOGNIZING

PEDIATRIC

ONCOLOGY

TREASURE

CHEST

WHEREAS, the Pediatric Oncology Treasure Chest Foundation is a non-profit organization, based in
Orland Park, dedicated to supporting pediatric cancer patients and their families by providing a toy, gift or
gift cards from a treasure chest; and
WHEREAS, on February 15, 1993, seven-year-old Martin Kisel was diagnosed with acute lymphocytic
leukemia and for three and a half years endured several painful procedures; and
WHEREAS, Colleen Kisel, Martin’s mother, would give Martin a toy after each procedure, noticing an
immediate joy from the new toy and subsequently a distraction from the pain of the medical procedures;
and
WHEREAS, Colleen believed this method would be great for pediatric cancer patients and began a letter
writing campaign to solicit donations; and
WHEREAS, in August 1996, Colleen’s efforts came to fruition when she officially launched the Pediatric
Oncology Treasure Chest Foundation with a donation from Aramark Corporation; and
WHEREAS, the Pediatric Oncology Treasure Chest Foundation fully and continuously
decorated treasure chest in outpatient areas within cancer treatment centers across the nation; and

stocks

a

WHEREAS, in 2018, the Pediatric Oncology Treasure Chest Foundation opened its 53rd and 54th
Treasure Chest Program at Toledo Children’s Hospital in Toledo, Ohio and the University of Missouri

Page 5 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

Woman and Children’s Hospital in Columbia, Missouri; and
WHEREAS, to date, the Pediatric Oncology Treasure Chest Foundation provides comfort and distraction
from painful pediatric cancer procedures to 13,000 children and teens every month; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, on behalf of the residents of Cook County, hereby recognize Pediatric Oncology Treasure
Chest Foundation and founder Colleen Kisel for her service and generous work provided to children in
Cook County and across the nation; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to Pediatric
Oncology Treasure Chest Foundation founder Colleen Kisel as a means of communicating our
appreciation.

19-2317
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING AND RECOGNIZING DAR SERCA (GIFT FROM THE HEART)
WHEREAS, Dar Serca is a non-profit organization, based in Schiller Park, that provides help to disabled
children, mostly from abroad, so they can receive medical treatments from the highest quality clinics in the
United States; and
WHEREAS, Dar Serca founder Izabela Rybak experienced the lack of assistance in modern medical
care for disabled children when there was a shortage of medical treatments for her son in her hometown
of Otwock, Poland; and
WHEREAS, in 1985, Izabela’s husband came to America searching for medical assistance and financial
quotes for cerebral palsy treatments for their son, eventually finding help from Shriners Hospital in
Chicago; and
WHEREAS, the multiple surgeries and extensive care their son required prompted Izabela and her
husband to seek permanent residency so they could care for their son and bring their two daughters to
Cook County; and
WHEREAS, in 1986, shortly after her arrival to the U.S., Izabela met the parents of two children
suffering from the same disability as her son and she provided guidance in compiling the necessary
information and filling out the paperwork; and
WHEREAS, on November 23,1988, Dar Serca, Polish for Gift from the Heart, was established and has
since been a beacon of hope for children from abroad to come the U.S. to receive high quality medical

Page 6 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

care, including life-saving surgery and medical treatments unavailable in their home countries and at no
cost to the families; and
WHEREAS, in 2009, a state-of-the-art living facility was built in Schiller Park to provide a comfortable
environment for the children and their families or guardians before, during, and after the surgeries and
medical treatments; and
WHEREAS, last year, 46 children from abroad where under the care of Dar Serca, a total cost of over
$230, 000; and
WHEREAS, for more than 30 years, the work of Dar Serca is made possible with help from the
community, individuals and corporate donations; and
WHEREAS, Dar Serca helps local children with disabilities by providing Saturday classes and summer
camp opportunities; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, on behalf of the residents of Cook County, hereby recognize Dar Serca (Gift from the
Heart) and founder Izabela Rybak for their services and generous work provided to children from abroad
and Cook County residents; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to Dar Serca
founder Izabela Rybak as a means of communicating our appreciation.

19-2352
Sponsored by: DENNIS DEER,
County Board of Commissioners

DEBORAH

SIMS

and

TONI

PRECKWINKLE

(President),

Cook

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY OF OSCAR JAMES ARMSTRONG
WHEREAS, God in his infinite wisdom called Oscar James Armstrong from our midst; and
WHEREAS, Oscar Armstrong was the oldest of five children born to the late Simon and Flora
Armstrong in Lee County, Ark; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Armstrong attended grammar school in Postelle
Armstrong graduated from Marianna’s Morton High School in 1951; and

AR,

and

St.

Louis,

MO. Mr.

WHEREAS, Mr. Armstrong enlisted in the U.S.Army serving three years during the Korean War and;
WHEREAS, after completing his tour of duty, he returned to Arkansas and enrolled in Arkansas
Mechanical and Normal College, now known as the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff (UAPB). While

Page 7 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

at Arknasas Mechanical and Normal, Mr. Armstrong was editor of the school yearbook for two years, a
member of the student government, and named in Who’s Who’s in American Colleges and Universities in
1957;and
WHEREAS, In 1957 Mr. Armstrong graduated with his Bachelor of Arts degree in history and political
science where the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. spoke at his commencement address. He also pursued
continuing education and graduate studies at Roosevelt University, University of Illinois Circle Campus
(now University of Illinois at Chicago), and the Center for Inner City Studies;and
WHEREAS, Oscar Armstrong met the love of his life Audrey Anne (Scott) whom he married in
Chicago, IL on September 5, 1958 and remained married for 61 years. This union produced two children;
Mark Fitzgerald Armstrong and Ingrid Renee Armstrong Doweary and
WHEREAS, Mr. Armstrong was employed as a teacher with the Chicago Public School System for 22
years. Mr. Armstrong taught at: Gladstone Elementary School, Pullman Elementary School, Fenger High
School, and Bogan High School. He served as Chair of the history department at Crane Technical School.
While at Crane, Mr. Armstrong served on a blue ribbon panel which lead to an Illinois law being passed
which required teachers to teach Black History in the State’s public elementary and secondary schools;
and
WHEREAS, Oscar Armstrong was active in various civic organizations including a life membership with
AMVETS, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, and the Prince Hall Masons. His civic involvement also included
the historically black working-class Maple Park subdivision on Chicago’s Far Southwest Side where he
served as: President of the block club for the 11700th block of South Throop Street and President,
Parliamentarian, and Financial Secretary for the Maple Park Community Association (originally the Maple
Park Homeowners Association). During his tenure with the homeowners association, Mr. Armstrong was
in the forefront of compelling Maple Park subdivision’s developers to honor their promise of improving
Cooper Park and including a gymnasium in the Whistler Elementary School tripling the school’s assembly
hall and cafeteria; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Oscar James Armstrong’s physical presence may no longer be with us, he shall be
remembered as a man who was gentle in spirit, admired and respected by his many friends and neighbors,
and dearly loved by his family.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County ,the Board
does hereby offer its deepest condolences and most heartfelt sympathy to the family of Oscar James
Armstrong and join them in sorrow at this time of loss; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable
Body, and a suitable copy of the same be tendered to the family of Mr. Oscar James Armstrong so that
his memory may be so honored and ever cherished

Page 8 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

19-2369
Sponsored by: BILL LOWRY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION

“Service is the rent we pay for the privilege of living on this earth” Shirley Chisolm
HONORING CANDICE PAYNE
WHEREAS, Candice Payne is a third-generation entrepreneur, the daughter of Phillip Payne a talented
hairstylist for more than four decades, and the granddaughter of Aretha DeShazer, a licensed barber and
former owner of Payne’s Barber shop once located at 1139 E. 43rd Street; and
WHEREAS, Candice Payne follows in the footsteps of her family as an entrepreneur and enjoying every
aspect of the real estate business. Ms. Payne is as a managing real estate broker, wholesaler, general
contractor, rehab designer, motivator of potential home owners, and the owner of Body Werks Spa, in
Bronzeville; and
WHEREAS, Candice Payne, having a significant other who unfortunately experienced homelessness, put
her faith into action during one of the worst polar vortex periods in the history of the City of Chicago.
WHEREAS, the severe weather conditions and plight of Chicago’s homeless motivated Candice Payne
to do more than sit and watch the local meteorologist; and
WHEREAS, Candice Payne housed 122 homeless citizens at the Amber Inn in Chicago for five days and
now dedicates her nonprofit organization, “Action for A Cause Now”, to building multi-unit housing for the
homeless; and
WHEREAS, many notable individuals such as: Common, Jada Pinkett Smith, Hillary Rodham
Clinton, and Ellen DeGeneres, noticed Candice Payne’s benevolent acts. Candice Payne kind gesture
inspired Ellen DeGeneras to make a Fifty Thousand Dollar contribution towards Ms. Payne’s future
efforts; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that I, BILL LOWRY, COOK COUNTY
COMMISSIONER of the 3rd DISTRICT, do hereby stand, and salute the humanitarianism of
Candice Payne.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution will be presented to Candice
Payne; and
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that a copy of this Resolution will be filed within the Office of Cook
County Commissioner Bill Lowry 3rd District.

Page 9 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

19-2306
Sponsored by: DONNA MILLER, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS
ARROYO JR, SCOTT R. BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGNEN,
BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B.
MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS, LARRY
SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING WAYNE ADAMS SR.
WHEREAS, Mr. Wayne Adams Sr. was born in St. Joseph, MO on April 15, 1919 and lived there until
he graduated from high school; and
WHEREAS, after he graduated, he moved to Chicago to join his mother and stepfather and has lived in
Cook County ever since; and
WHEREAS, the family lived a short distance from the 124th Field Artillery Armory, which served both

as a military training complex, and as a venue for midget auto races something he had wanted to see since
he was 10, and in the fall of 1936, he saw his first race at the armory; and
WHEREAS, soon, he and his parents were attending races throughout the Midwest including summer

races at Riverview Stadium, just outside of Riverview Amusement Park at Western and Belmont
avenues. They traveled to Rockville, In., Fort Wayne, In., Winchester, In., Dayton, Oh., and Greenville,
Oh. Locally, they attended races at the new Hammond Raceway in Indiana and Raceway Park in Blue
Island; and
WHEREAS, in 1939, Mr. Adams began photographing the races and selling the pictures at the tracks for

50 cents and would go on to became the scorer at Raceway Park, and, late in 1940, was approached by
Illustrated Speedway News to cover racing for that publication; and
WHEREAS, his first story in that national paper was about an indoor midget race at the International

Amphitheater with Wally Zale winning the 100-lap feature after being down two laps; and
WHEREAS, during this time Wayne met his wife Grace (Boots) Stevens, a romance that would last 76

years; Grace's father had told Wayne he needed to have $1,000 in the bank before they could wed so
Wayne sold his car to get the money and they were married on Nov. 7, 1942; and
WHEREAS, the two first lived with Grace's parents in Englewood, but six weeks after the wedding,

Wayne was inducted into the U.S. Army, reporting to Camp Grant in Northern Illinois then to Fort

Page 10 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

McLellan in Alabama for basic training; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Adams became an acting sergeant by his second week in the program, and asked to

join the Officer Candidate School program for infantry, but there were no spaces available; and
WHEREAS, Grace visited Wayne at Fort McLellan and other camps during his time in the army, and

while the rest of his company was shipped out, Wayne was left behind and reassigned to Camp Stewart in
Georgia in April of 1943; and
WHEREAS, while there he stayed in the anti-aircraft cadre pool under the direction of a second
lieutenant who repeatedly told Wayne he would not make it as an officer in the army; however,
undeterred, Wayne reapplied for OCS in anti-aircraft and was accepted and reassigned to Camp Davis in
North Carolina on Oct. 9, 1943, graduating the program on January 20, 1944 as a 2nd Lieutenant; and
WHEREAS, in September 1944, he was sent to another officer pool, this time with the 1694th
Engineering Battalion at Camp Rucker in Alabama, where he was selected to attend the 2nd Army Mine
School learning the latest information on land mines, explosives, and booby traps; That class included
every rank from second lieutenants to lieutenant colonels and Wayne posted the highest score in the class
and was kept as an instructor there until the school closed; and
WHEREAS, when the school closed, Wayne was sent overseas to Manila in the Philippines. On July 22,
1945, he set sail on a 31-day voyage across the Pacific on the Cape Victory, which held 1.600 men
including 800 black soldiers, landing at Batangas in Luzon and then he rejoined the 1694th at a camp north
of Manila; and
WHEREAS, while there, he was one of 24 white officers selected to give basic training to a group of
black soldiers; These men had been in the army for several years building the Alcan Highway, a supply
route through Canada to Alaska, but had never received basic training; They were brought to Manila to
help the rebuilding process there; In Wayne's first group, two of the men were from Chicago and one
even knew his step-father's butcher shop, where they would meet again after the war; and
WHEREAS, after helping to rebuild the Filipino infrastructure Mr. Adams returned home in April 1946,
where he rejoined his family and added another daughter, April Darlene, in July 1947; and
WHEREAS, after the war, Wayne again turned his attention toward auto racing; More than 6,000 fans
watched the midgets race at Hanson Park on the northwest side and Wayne was asked to announce the
second event of the 1947 season thus beginning a long career in auto racing announcing; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Adams retired from announcing in 1989 after calling 2,625 racing programs, and retired
from his daytime job as a trophy salesman two years later; and
WHEREAS, Wayne was inducted into the National Old Timers Auto Racing Hall of Fame in Oct. 1988,

Page 11 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

the Grundy County Mazon Speed Bowl Hall of Fame in July 2004, the Illinois Stock Car Hall of Fame in
April 2012, and the National Midget Auto Racing Hall of Fame in January 2014; and
WHEREAS, he and Grace had 4 children and moved to Dolton, IL and traveled the country, visiting 48
states, Mexico, and Canada during their marriage and had 9 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren; and
WHEREAS, sadly Grace passed away in March 2016 at age 90, and had been married to Wayne for 73
years and known each other just weeks short of 75 years; and
WHEREAS, Wayne will turn 100 years old this coming April, and recently met the newest addition to his
family, a great-great-granddaughter;
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the President and Members of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners proudly honors Mr. Wayne Adams Sr. for his amazing life and career and his service to
the Country, the community and Cook County; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED THAT, this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this
Honorable Body and that a suitable copy be presented to Wayne Adams Sr.

19-2228
Sponsored by: KEVIN B. MORRISON, ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR, SCOTT R.
BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRIDGET GAINER,
BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, SEAN M.
MORRISON, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS,
LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RECOGNIZING REBECCA DARR AND WINGS
WHEREAS, WINGS Program, Inc. was established in 1985 to provide a pathway to independence for
people whose lives have been disrupted by domestic violence; and
WHEREAS, the mission of WINGS Program, Inc. is to provide housing, integrated services, education,
and advocacy to end domestic violence; and
WHEREAS, Rebecca Darr was the Executive Director of WINGS for 15 years before becoming the
CEO in 2014; and
WHEREAS, WINGS is now the largest domestic violence housing agency in Illinois, providing housing,
integrated services, education, and advocacy to end domestic violence; and
WHEREAS, WINGS has two emergency shelters and 51 transitional and permanent housing units across
the Chicagoland, which can house up to 363 individuals per night; and

Page 12 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

WHEREAS, WINGS is one of the only domestic violence agency housing both women and men in
Illinois; and
WHEREAS, 1 in 4 men have experienced physical violence by an intimate partner, leading to an
estimated 830,000 men abused each year in the United States and every 37.5 seconds a man battered in
the United States; and
WHEREAS, 1 in 3 women have experienced physical violence by an intimate partner, leading to an
estimated 3-4 million women abused each year in the United States and every 9 seconds a woman is
battered in the United States; and
WHEREAS, March is designated as Women’s History Month and International Women’s Day is March
8; and
WHEREAS, WINGS hosts an annual fashion show fundraiser that over 500 people attend; and
WHEREAS, WINGS raises funds through their three resale stores to fund their vital work; and
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that we, the Board of the Cook County Commissioners would like
to recognize both Rebecca Darr for her exemplary work and the WINGS Program, Inc, for its many
years of years of providing services to domestic violence survivors; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that suitable copies of this resolution are presented to Rebecca Darr
of WINGS Program, Inc.

19-2116
Sponsored by: SEAN M. MORRISON, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING
THE
DESIGNATING THE
COOK COUNTY

HERITAGE
MONTH OF

AND
APRIL

CULTURE
AS ARAB

OF
ARAB
AMERICANS
AND
AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH IN

WHEREAS, the State of Illinois has more than 450,000 citizens who are of Arab heritage, originating
primarily from Palestine, Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Yemen and 15 other Arab World countries,
with the largest concentration living in Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Arab Americans in Illinois, who are both Christian and Muslim, first settled in Illinois in the
middle of the 19th Century, playing a significant role in the yearlong and successful Columbian World
Exposition held in Chicago in 1893; and

Page 13 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

WHEREAS, Arab Americans in Illinois have played significant roles in American life including serving in
every war including the Civil War, World War I, World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, and
the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan; and
WHEREAS, Arab Americans in Illinois are proud citizens who pay their taxes, manage successful
business and work in a wide range of blue collar and white collar professions including doctors, dentists,
lawyers, engineers, journalists, public officials, grocery store and retail store owners, union activists and
educators and teachers; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois General Assembly adopted a State Law in December 2018 votING unanimously
to designate the month of April as Arab American Heritage month, joining seven other states including
Arizona, California, Michigan, Virginia, Texas, Georgia, and Maryland, and also Washington D.C.; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board joins in honoring the heritage
and culture of Arab Americans, and designates the month of April as Arab American Heritage Month in
Cook County; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board further encourages all of its residents to
celebrate the diversity of this great county and that the text of this resolution be spread across the journal
of proceedings of this honorable body.

19-1899
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RECOGNIZING SAINT PAUL LUTHERAN CHURCH OF MOUNT
HISTORY OF SERVICE AND COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY

PROSPECT

FOR

ITS

WHEREAS, in 1912, five years before the Village of Mount Prospect was incorporated, seventeen
families organized the Saint Paul Lutheran Church congregation; and
WHEREAS, Saint Paul Lutheran Church has grown to more than 1,400 active family members today, led
by Senior Pastor Chris Whitby; and
WHEREAS, the motto of Saint Paul Lutheran Church is “Growing as Family,” representing the church’s
belief that a real church is not a building; rather, it is a community where real people can go to find real
answers for the real world; and
WHEREAS, Pastor Bo Graham received the Open Arms Award at the Mount Prospect Shining Stars
Gala on February 2, 2019. The gala honors those who benefit the community through great works that
often go unnoticed; and

Page 14 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

WHEREAS, Pastor Bo began the free Breakfast with Baby program four years ago with one mother in
attendance and now serves up to one hundred people twice per month. The program invites families with
children up to two years of age and women who are at least seven months pregnant to come and enjoy a
hot meal with their families and shop for free items, such as diapers, toys, and clothes, in the church’s
Baby Store; and
WHEREAS,
families; and

from

2016-2018,

the

Breakfast

with

Baby

program

donated

51,600 diapers

to

needy

WHEREAS, beyond weekly worship celebrations, Saint Paul Lutheran Church offers ministries for
children, junior high students, high school students, young adults, adults, and senior citizens to help all ages
grow as individuals and deepen their relationship with God and their community; and
WHEREAS, local mission projects, such as The Church Has Left the Building, bring church members
into the community to volunteer their time to help out as needed. Food Collection, P.A.D.S., and Sisters in
Stitches offer ongoing additional assistance; and
WHEREAS, the Saint Paul Lutheran Church community also volunteers farther afield through mission
trips to the Mexican border and through Workcamp, which takes the senior-high ministry to serve in
locales in need around the country; and
WHEREAS, the other ministries in which the Saint Paul Lutheran Church community engages are too
numerous to mention, yet each one contributes to the noble mission of the church.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby recognize and thank Saint Paul Lutheran Church of Mount Prospect for its history of service to the
community; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this resolution be presented to members of the
Saint Paul Lutheran Church as a token of the county’s appreciation.

19-2263
Sponsored by:
Commissioners

PETER

N.

SILVESTRI

and

KEVIN

B.

MORRISON,

Cook

County

Board

of

PROPOSED RESOLUTION
JILL MORGENTHALER, IN MEMORIAM
WHEREAS, Almighty God in His infinite wisdom called Jill Morgenthaler from our midst on February 23,
2019; and
WHEREAS, Jill Morgenthaler was the beloved wife of Kerry Chambers; devoted mother of Neal and
Jamie Chambers; loving sister of Terry Morgenthaler (Patrick Kerins), Jeffrey (Donna) Morgenthaler, and

Page 15 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

Sharon Morgenthaler; and dear aunt of many nieces and nephews; and
WHEREAS, Jill Morgenthaler was a retired U.S. Army Colonel with thirty years of military service; and
WHEREAS, Jill Morgenthaler was one of 83 female cadets to arrive at boot camp at Ft. Bragg, North
Carolina, in 1975, as part of the inaugural class of women in the Army; and
WHEREAS, Jill Morgenthaler rose through the ranks and became the first woman battalion commander
in the 88th Regional Support Command, and later the first woman brigade commander in the 84th Division;
and
WHEREAS, her military career took her to Germany and South Korea in the 1980s, and Bosnia and
Kosovo in the 1990s, when she earned a humanitarian service medal for helping to resettle Kosovar
refugees; and
WHEREAS, in 2004 Jill Morgenthaler was awarded the Bronze Star for leadership in Iraq and upon
retirement in 2006 was awarded the Legion of Merit; and
WHEREAS, in 2005, Jill Morgenthaler became the first woman to run the Illinois Department of
Homeland Security; and
WHEREAS, Jill Morgenthaler was a professional international speaker, leadership expert, and author of
The Courage to Take Command: Leadership Lessons from a Military Trailblazer ; and
WHEREAS, after retiring, Jill Morgenthaler served with the Army Reserves and helped coordinate the
emergency response after the 2008 shootings at Northern Illinois University; and
WHEREAS, U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth said “Colonel Morgenthaler devoted her life to helping
others be all they can be. A true patriot, she was a leader and decorated officer who knocked down
barriers in the military and motivated a generation of women through her service and her inspirational
speeches.”
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby offer its deepest condolences and heartfelt sympathy to the family and loved ones of Jill
Morgenthaler; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this Honorable
Body, and that a suitable copy of the same be tendered to the family of Jill Morgenthaler so that her
memory may be so honored and ever cherished.

Page 16 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

19-2383
Sponsored by: PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING DREAMS FOR KIDS AS IT CELEBRATES ITS 30TH ANNIVERSARY
WHEREAS, for 30 years, Dreams for Kids has been fulfilling its mission to train and mentor youth to
help them create enterprises that provide solutions to critical social issues; and
WHEREAS, Tom Tuohy-experiencing in his own life how important a mentor can be in a young person’s
life, and how important it is for youth to learn how much they have to give-created Dreams for Kids; and
WHEREAS, on Christmas Eve, 1989, Dreams for Kids began with its first Holiday for Hope event; and
WHEREAS, since that day, this event has served more than 70,000 of our most vulnerable kids during the
holiday season, providing food, gifts, music, dance, crafts, sports, books, and more; and
WHEREAS, Dreams for Kids offers social entrepreneurship lessons that help students explore in
real-world contexts, the relevance of essential entrepreneurial skills, doing this autonomously,
collaboratively, and in partnership with a vast array of professionals; and
WHEREAS, with the guidance of mentors from the workforce community, students in Dreams for Kids’
curriculum channel their learning into creating social impact enterprises and applying business principles to
ventures that drive profit and solve critical social issues; and
WHEREAS, Dreams for Kids’ Youth Enterprise Solutions program instills an entrepreneurial mindset,
providing the necessary preparation for the new economy and the complex demands of 21st Century
global citizenship; and
WHEREAS, the inquiry and project-based curriculum drives student learning into the world and is
delivered by teachers in class and supported by mentors beyond school; and
WHEREAS, one Dreams for Kids’ social entrepreneur started Project I Am, which distributes “Blessings
Bags” to homeless people and has partnered with the Heartland Alliance to expand his reach. This child
was acknowledged by President Barack Obama and the Obama Foundation for being one of the people to
make a difference in society in 2017; and
WHEREAS, Dreams for Kids youth continue to create social enterprises that change lives and instill
dignity by replacing charity with opportunity.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does

Page 17 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

hereby congratulate Dreams for Kids as it celebrates its 30th anniversary; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this resolution be tendered to Dreams for Kids
as a token of our appreciation for its significant, ongoing contributions to those in need.

19-1895
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), ALMA E. ANAYA,
LUIS ARROYO JR, SCOTT R. BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET
DEGNEN, BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER,
STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING ADRIAN WILLOUGHBY FOR A LIFE WELL LIVED
WHEREAS, on February 2, 2019 Adrian Willoughby was honored
accomplishments and contributions throughout his thirty-nine years of life; and

and

celebrated

for

his

many

WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby was a devoted husband, son, brother and uncle who affected countless
lives; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby was deeply committed to economic, racial, and social justice and
dedicated his life to providing affordable housing, shelter for the homeless, and dignified conditions for
those in need; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby was born March 16, 1979 in Belize City, Belize, the oldest of five
children. He was known for his playful demeanor with his younger siblings and his independence and
sense of style. As a student in Catholic schools in Belize, he insisted to his mother that the brown and
yellow button shirts and slacks didn’t reflect his style. The compromise was to be able to wear yellow
Lacoste polo shirts; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby moved with his family to Evanston at the age of 16. When his father died
two years later, it was particularly hard on him; but he embraced his new role as man-of-the-house. His
younger sisters remember him as a protector and father-figure.; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby was a pioneer in the online world. In 1997, that meant chat rooms where
he met his wife, Cindi Dingman, a fellow high school student in California. The long-distance relationship
grew and after he graduated from high school, Adrian traveled to California to meet her. They were
married in 2002. They eventually moved to Rogers Park, and then into a Reba’s Place affordable housing
unit so they could save money to purchase their current home in the Fifth Ward; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby attended Oakton Community College and Colorado Technical University,
initially majoring in political science. He worked for more than a decade at Grainger where he was in

Page 18 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

charge of on-boarding, project management, and disaster planning. Adrian was well-loved and respected
at Grainger, so much so that they developed an informal motto of WWAD, “What would Adrian do?” At
his farewell party, colleagues bid him good-by wearing T-shirts and holding mugs emblazoned with the
slogan; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby’s commitment to economic, racial, and social justice led him to seek
volunteer opportunities at Reba Place Development Corp., where he was soon hired as a project manager.
Three years later, he had risen to the role of Executive Director. Adrian embodied Reba’s mission “to
develop safe, decent, and affordable housing, demonstrating how Evanston’s diverse racial and cultural
groups can thrive together.” Adrian’s colleagues describe him as a gentle man with strong convictions and
dreams of building homes in Evanston that people could afford; and
WHEREAS, in addition to his full-time work, Adrian Willoughby was actively engaged civically, serving
as a member of Joining Forces for Affordable Housing - Connections for the Homeless, Interfaith Action
of Evanston, multiple political campaigns, and engaging in various advocacy and consultant work; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby’s interest in global and local politics was likely sparked by his uncle,
Stuart Leslie, who served as the Belizean Representative to the United Nations, Chief Elections Officer,
and Ambassador of Trade in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby was a man of faith. As a parishioner of Vineyard Christian Fellowship of
Evanston, he modeled those values in his life. He believed that God had a purpose for each and every one
of us, and that is was up to us to strive to identify and embrace that purpose; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby also knew how to have fun. He was a consummate host. No one’s cup
ever ran dry at his home. He was a fervid White Sox fan and loved spending time at his lake house
looking out over the water, just as he had done as a child. He particularly enjoyed the annual Willoughby
summer party, yearly pilgrimages to Myrtle Beach, and camping trips with friends; and
WHEREAS, Adrian Willoughby will be sorely missed by all who knew him. He is survived by his wife,
Cindi-Marie Willoughby; his mother Judith Willoughby; siblings Deven Harmon, Andrew Willoughby,
Desiree Miller and Megan Levy; brothers-in-law Jeff Dingman, Reggie Harman, Patrick Levy, and
Eugene Miller III; nephews Wayne Levy and Reggie Harman; and nieces Maddie Harmon and Azyra
Tuggle. He is preceded in death by his father Wayne Willoughby, grandfather Lindy Leslie, and
father-in-law William Halver Dingman.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, on
behalf of the 5.2 million residents of Cook County takes great pleasure in honoring and celebrating Adrian
Willoughby’s 39 years of life and his many contributions bettering the lives of the residents of Evanston
and citizens of Cook County, Illinois;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of the same be tendered to the family of
Adrian Willoughby...end

Page 19 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

19-1896
Sponsored by: LARRY SUFFREDIN, TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), ALMA E. ANAYA,
LUIS ARROYO JR, SCOTT R. BRITTON, JOHN P. DALEY, DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET
DEGNEN, BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER,
STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI,
DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
HONORING JESSICA LYNN BRYAR FOR A LIFE WELL LIVED
WHEREAS, Jessica Lynn Bryar was a proud and accomplished employee of the Cook County Public
Defender’s Office for more than twenty years; and
WHEREAS, after a valiant fight, Jessica Lynn Bryar succumbed to illness on February 3, 2019. She was
46 years old; and
WHEREAS, Jessica earned her J.D. from Loyola University Chicago School of Law and B.A. from
Boston College. During law school she supplemented her studies by serving as a Street Law Teacher in
three Chicago schools and was a Program Coordinator for a Chicago social service agency that serves
teen mothers. She also volunteered at First Defense Legal Aid, an organization that provides legal
representation and advice to individuals taken into police custody. There, she interviewed clients,
documented circumstances of arrest, negotiated for clients’ release and facilitated communication with
family; and
WHEREAS, as a Williams Fellow throughout law school, she re-developed volunteer teaching program at
the Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention Center. She researched Law Related Education (LRE)
programs nation-wide, attended national LRE conferences, assessed residents’ needs, developed and
co-authored LRE curricula, recruited volunteers, developed and conducted training sessions, implemented
program each semester for over 60 student and other professional volunteers and evaluated program’s
effectiveness; and
WHEREAS, in the summer of 1996, she worked as an extern for the Honorable George M. Marovich,
assisting clerks in the drafting of opinions, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, Jessica joined the Cook County Public Defender’s Office as an assistant public defender in
December 1998. Jessica worked in the First Municipal, Juvenile Justice, Felony, and Civil Divisions,
becoming an Attorney Supervisor in Civil in 2008. As an Attorney Supervisor, she aided in the
development of the new Child Protection Conflict Unit. In March 2013, she was promoted to Chief of
Civil where she and her staff represented the needs of indigent individuals in the Child Protection and
Mental Health divisions of the Circuit Court of Cook County; and

Page 20 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

WHEREAS, in 2008, Jessica worked as a consultant to the Juvenile Justice Initiative (JJI) where she
aided in the development and presentation of JJI’s vision for a model after-care program for Illinois youth
exiting the juvenile prison system. She researched and visited nationally recognized after-care programs,
coordinated with Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice and the MacArthur Foundation funded Models for
Change program and provided support for JJI’s legislative advocacy; and
WHEREAS, Jessica was a formidable advocate and vocal champion for children and families in need of
representation, especially the most vulnerable. Her leadership, compassion, and dedication to ensuring
equity and justice for those she served were inspiring to everyone fortunate enough to know her; and
WHEREAS, one of Jessica’s proudest moments was in June 2017, when she graduated from the
University of Chicago’s Civic Leadership Academy. In addition to being a proud member of the Civic
Leadership Academy (’17), she served on the American Bar Association’s National Alliance for Parent
Representation Steering Committee, and Illinois Department of Children and Family Service’s Cook
County Transformation Team; and
WHEREAS, Jessica was the youngest of seven children. Her caring, genuine spirit and outgoing
personality were evident from a young age. A friend proudly boasts that Jess was the ONLY female
member of the Fairfield Flyers, the toughest street “gang” of 7 and 8 year-olds from California to Western
and 103rd to 107th. She shot hoops with the boys in the backyards and soon they were cheering her on, at
the courts of Fisher Elementary and St. Ignatius College Prep; and
WHEREAS, Jessica had a close relationship with her brothers and sisters and greatly admired both of her
parents. She was fortunate to be able to accompany her father, George, on a road trip to Branson,
Missouri, where he was honored for his accomplishments as a US Army surgeon in Vietnam. Her mother,
Cice, was her dear friend and confidante. They would frequently attend the Goodman, or matinee movies,
or just enjoy an afternoon of shopping; and
WHEREAS, Jessica’s eleven years of Jesuit education, combined with her altruistic morals, naturally led
her to a career path as a woman for others. She was committed to giving a voice to people who weren’t
heard, but deserved to be heard. She believed that everybody had the right to feel valued, and safe, and
loved; and
WHEREAS, Jessica was loved and respected by a host of family, friends, and colleagues who
appreciated her remarkable and steady kindness and grace, her hearty laugh, and her quiet but indomitable
inner strength. Her passionate celebration of life, positive spirit, and vibrant outlook left a lasting
impression on all; and
WHEREAS, she is survived by parents Cicely Bryar and George Bryar; siblings Sharon (Bob) Eichinger,
Julie (Tom) Smith, Liz (Terry) Raser, Paul (Jen), Colin (Sarah) and Kevin (Denise) Bryar. She was
“Fancy Aunt Jess” to 16 nieces and nephews.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, on

Page 21 of 22

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 20, 2019

behalf of the 5.2 million residents of Cook County takes great pleasure in honoring and celebrating Jessica
Bryar’s life and her many contributions bettering the lives of the citizens of Cook County, Illinois;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be spread upon the official
proceedings of this Honorable Body and that an official copy of the same be tendered to the family of
Jessica Bryar.

Page 22 of 22

 