REGULAR MEETING
OF
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Charles Hayes Family Investment Center
4859 S. Wabash, Chicago, Illinois
Tuesday, March 19, 2019
9:30 am
AGENDA

I.

Roll Call

II.

Centering Thoughts – Commissioner Mildred Harris

III.

Presentation of Resolutions and Committee Reports
Finance & Audit Committee Report – Craig Chico, Chairman
Item No. 1
Recommendation to approve and submit to HUD the FY2018 Moving To Work
(MTW) Annual Report – Jennifer Hoyle, Director, Planning and Reporting
Item No. 2

Recommendation to award contract for an upgrade and expansion of the
Enterprise Management System (iFile Phase II). Recommended Awardee:
Electronic Knowledge Interchange Company in the aggregate amount of
$4,199,586 – Patricia Rios, Chief Administrative Services

Item No. 3

Authorization to purchase insurance coverage for Property Managers' Insurance
Program (PMIP) for an aggregate amount of $894,992 – Mike Moran, Chief
Financial Officer

Tenant Services Committee Report – Meghan Harte, Chairwoman
Item No. 4
Recommendation to award contract for the Resident Service Coordinator
Program. Recommended Awardee: Catholic Charities in the aggregate amount
of $9,062,645 for a one-year base term and a one-year option term – Mary
Howard, Chief of Resident Services
Real Estate Operations Development Committee Report – Matthew Brewer, Chairman
Item No. 5
Authorization to renew and execute a Preliminary Commitment Letter for 5150
Northwest Highway Apartments – Derek Messier, Chief Property Officer
Item No. 6

Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Chicago’s Department of Administrative Hearings to provide administrative
hearings for CHA residents – Derek Messier, Chief Property Officer

 Item No. 7

Recommendation to approve the Inducement Resolution relating to preliminary
approval for the issuance of Multifamily Housing Revenue Bonds not to exceed
$15,000,000 for the building located at 1221 West Sherwin Avenue in Chicago –
Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 8

Recommendation to approve eight Development Teams for Mixed-Finance
Housing and Mixed-use Development Delivery though the Pre-Qualified
Development Team approach – Ann McKenzie, Chief Development Officer

Item No. 9

Authorization to increase the funding amount of the Lathrop Phase 1
Predevelopment Loan to Lathrop Community Partners LLC – Ann McKenzie,
Chief Development Officer

General Item
Item No. 10
Ratification and amendment of Resolution for the Lease Agreement for office
space located at 3619 S. State Street – Dee Brookens, Chief Procurement Officer
IV.

Report from Chief Executive Officer – Eugene E. Jones, Jr.

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Closed Meeting
•
Commissioners will vote on whether to go into closed meeting pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2, to possibly discuss matters under the following exceptions:
personnel related matters under (c)(1) and (c)(2); purchase, sale and lease of real estate
property under (c)(5) and (c)(6); pending/imminent/probable litigation under (c) (11);
review of closed meeting minutes under (c) (21) and audit reviews under (c) (29).

VII.

Open Session Resumes – Roll Call

VIII.

Approval of Minutes for the Closed and Regular Meetings of January 15, 2019.

IX.

Presentation of Matters from Closed Session
Item No. 11 Personnel Actions Reports – Tenelle Barnes, Chief Human Resources Officer

XI.

Adjournment

2

 