 

 

 

1
Internal Audit-I
Open Meeting

Internal Audit Charter

COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

 

Internal Audit Charter
(The following 3 slides are excerpts from the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) Practice Standards)

INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS FOR THE PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE
OF INTERNAL AUDITING (STANDARDS)

Attribute Standards
The purpose, authority, and responsibility of the internal audit activity must be formally
defined in an internal audit charter, consistent with the Definition of Internal Auditing, the
Code of Ethics, and the Standards.

The internal audit charter is a formal document that defines the internal audit activity's
purpose, authority, and responsibility. The internal audit charter establishes the internal
audit activity's position within the organization, including the nature of the chief audit
executive’s functional reporting relationship with the board; authorizes access to records,
personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of engagements; and
defines the scope of internal audit activities

3

 Internal Audit Charter
1110 – Organizational Independence
The chief audit executive must report to a level within the organization that allows the internal audit activity
to fulfill its responsibilities.
Interpretation:
Organizational independence is effectively achieved when the chief audit executive reports functionally to
the board. Examples of functional reporting to the board involve the board:






Approving decisions regarding the appointment and removal of the chief audit executive;



Approving the remuneration of the chief audit executive; and



Making appropriate inquiries of management and the chief audit executive to determine whether there are inappropriate scope or
resource limitations.

4

 Internal Audit Charter
Considerations for Implementation

Based on this foundational work, the CAE (or a delegate) drafts an internal audit charter. The IIA offers a model internal audit activity charter
that may be used as a guide. Although they vary by organization, charters typically include the following sections:
– to explain the overall role and professionalism of the internal audit activity, citing the relevant elements of the International
Professional Practice Framework (IPPF).
– to specify the internal audit activity’s full access to the records, physical property and personnel required to perform its

engagements and to declare its accountability for safeguarding assets and confidentiality.

– to document the CAE’s reporting structure. The CAE reports functionally to the board and
administratively to a level within the organization that allows the internal audit activity to fulfill its responsibilities. This section may delve into
specific functional responsibilities, such as approving the charter and audit plan, and hiring, compensating, and terminating the CAE; as well as
administrative responsibilities, such as supporting information flow within the organization or approving human resource administration and
budgets.
– to describe the importance of internal audit independence and objectivity and how these will be maintained,
such as prohibiting internal audit from having operational responsibility or authority over areas audited.
– to lay out major areas of ongoing responsibility, such as defining the scope of assessments, writing an audit plan and
submitting it to the board for approval, performing assessments, communicating the results, providing a written audit report, and monitoring
corrective actions taken by management.
– to describe the expectations for maintaining, evaluating, and communicating the results of a quality
program that covers all aspects of the internal audit activity.
– to document the agreement between the CAE, a designated board representative, and the individual to whom the CAE reports,
with the date, name, and title of signatories.
5

 11

Thank you.

COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

 

