5-14?49

NEIGHBORHOOD
AND COMMUNITY
SERVICES STANDING
COMMITTEE

 

OFFICE COORDINATORS REPORT

 

OVERALL STATUS (please circle): APPROVED DENIED NIA CANCELED

 

 

Petition 635 EventName:2019 Detroit Jazz Festival
August 30 - September 2, 2019

Woodward Avenue Cadillac Square

Organization Name: The Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation

Street Address: 19908 Harper Avenue Harper Woods, Ml 48225



 

Event Date 

 

Street Closure:

 

 

 

 

Receipt date of the COMPLETED Special Events Application:

 

Date of City Clerk?s Departmental Reference Communication:

 

Due date for City Departments reports:

 

 

 

Due date for the Coordinators Report to City Clerk:

 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply):
DWalkathon Carnival/Circus ConcerUPerformance E, Run/Marathon

Bike Race El Religious Ceremony El Political Ceremony Festival

 

Filming I: Parade Sports/Recreation El Rally/Demonstration
[j Fireworks l: Convention/Conference Other:
24-Hour Liquor License

 

Petition Communications (include date/time)

40th Annual Detroit Jazz Fest located at Hart Plaza Cadillac Square and Woodward Avenue from
11:00am - 11:00pm; with temporary street closure on Woodward Avenue Eastbound Cadillac

Square.

 

ALL permits and license requirements must be ful?lled for an approval status 
Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments

DPD Assisted Event
DPD 

 

 

 

 

Pending Inspections; Contracted with Hart

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

El Medical to Provide EMS Services
EMS
ROW Permit Required for Street Closures
DPW El
Health Dept. Temporary Food License Required

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date Department NIA APPROVED DENIED Additional Comments
Type Barricades Road Closure
TED Signage Required
Applications Received Approved as
Recreation Presented

 

Safety



Permits Required for Tents, Generators,
Electrical Staging

 

Vendors License Liquor License

 

 

 

 

 

Bus. License Required
Ma Ops All Necessary permits must be obtained
Of?ice prior to event. If permits are not obtained,
departments can enforce closure of event.
Municipal Purchase of Parking Meters Requwed
Parking
DDOT Low Impact on Buses

 



 



 



 

 

OFFICE
Signature: {baa/Uwu? AW

Date: l4, ZOIQ

 

DEPARTMENTAL REFERENCE COMMUNICATION

Tuesday, January 08, 2019

To: The Department or Commission Listed Below

From: Janice M. Winfrey, Detroit City Clerk

 

The following petition is herewith referred to you for report and recommendation to the
City Council.

In accordance with that body's directive, kindly return the same with your report in duplicate
within four (4) weeks.

 

OFFICE POLICE DEPARTMENT
FIRE DEPARTMENT DPW - CITY ENGINEERING DIVISION
BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
RECREATION DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL PARKING DEPARTMENT

635 The Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation, request to hold "2019 Detroit Jazz
Festival at Hart Plaza, on Woodward Avenue and Cadillac Square on August
30-September 2, 2019?om 11:00 AM to 11:00 PM each day with various street
closures. Set up begins 8-22-19 and tear down ends 9-6-19.

 

 

City of Detroit Special Events Application

Successful events are the result of advance planning, effective communication and teamwork.
The City of Detroit will be strictly adhering to the Special Events Guidelines; please print them
out for reference. Petitioners are required to complete the information below so that the City of
Detroit may gain a thorough understanding of the scope and needs of the event. This form must be
completed and returned to the Special Events and Film Handling Office at least 60 days prior to
the first date of the event. If submitted later than 60 days prior, application is subject to denial.
Please type or print clearly and attach additional sheets and maps as needed.

Section 1? GENERAL IiVli-N'l' 
Mm Name:2019 DETROITJAZZ FESTIVAL

 

 

HART PLAZA. WOODWARD AVENNUE. CADILLAC SQUARE

Event location:

Is this going to be an annual event? . Yes No

   

Section 2- 
THE DETROITJAZZ FESTIVAL FOUNDATION

Organization Name:

Organization Mailing Address. 19908 HARPER AVENU E, HARPER WOODS, Ml. 48225

 

Business Phone: 3 1 3-469- 6564 Business Website: ETROITJAZ FEST. 0 RG

 

Applicant Name: SAM FOTIAS



 

Event On-Site Contact Person:
AWSAM FOTIAS

 

Business Phone:313'729'2428 CellPhone2586'596_9463 

 

Event Elements (check all that apply)

]Walkathon ]Camival/Circus Concertherfoi-mance
]RunlMarathon ]Bike Race ]Religious Ceremony
]Political Event Festival ]Filming

]Parade ]Sportisecreation 
]Convention!Conference ]Fireworks )Other:

 

Projected Number of 
Please provide a brief description of your event:

THE 2019 EDITION OF THE DETROITJAZZFEST WILL BE THE 40TH EDITION OF THE EVENTTHAT
6

 

 

 

 

What are the projected set-up, event and tear down dates and times (must be completed)?

 

 

Begin Set-up Date 08/2 2/2019 Time:08:00 Complete Set-up Date: 08/2 9/2019 Time:10:00 PM
Event Start Date208/30/2019 Time:11:00 Event End Date:09/02/2019 Time:11:00 PM
Begin Tearing Down Date?gl 0 2/2019 Complete Tear Down Date209/0 6/2019

 

Event Times (If more than one day, ivc times for each day):

11 AM TO 1 PM EACH DA

 

Section 3- 

 

Location ovaentzHART PLAZA, WOODWARD AVENUE BETWEEN LARN ED AND STATE, CADILLAC SQUARE

Facilities to be useth Street I Sidewalk I Park I City I
Facility

Please attach a copy of Port-a-John, Sanitation, and Emergency Medical Agreements as well as a site plan which illustrates the
anticipated layout of your event including the following:

-Public entrance and exit Location of First Aid

-Location of merchandising booths -Location of ?re lane

-Location of food booths -Proposed route for walk/run
-Location of garbage receptacles -Location of tents and canopies
?Location of beverage booths -Sketch of street closure

?Location of sound stages {location of bleachers

-Location of hand washing sinks -Location of press area

Location of portable restrooms -Sketch of proposed light pole banners

You will be prompted to upload these attachments upon submitting this form

 

Seclion 4? liN'l'liR'l?AlNMliN'l?

Describe the entertainment for this year's event:

ARTISTS ARE STILL BEING BOOKED, BUTIN THE PAST IT HAS BEEN HERBIE HANCOCK, GEORGE BENSON,

Will a sound system be used? . Yes No

Wes, what type? sound system? LARGE FORMAT TOURING AUDIO, NEXO, MEYER, ETC.

Describe speci?c power needs for entertainment and/or music:

THEJAZZ FEST BUILDS ITS OWN PROPRIETARY GRID FORTHE ENTIRE EVENT.

How many generators will be used? 7

How will the generators be fueled?

BY OUR FUEL COMPANY. CHAPP OIL

 

 

Name of vendor providing generators:

Contact CAT- AARON SUZORE

Address: 25000 NOVI ROAD Phone:800-833-1789

 

City/StateIZipN OVI, MI. 48375

 

Section 5? SALES 

 

Will there be advanced ticket sales? YB No
If yes. please describe:

 

 

Will there be on-site ticket sales? El Yes . No

If yes. list pri eds):

Will there be vending or sales? . Yes No

If yes, check all that apply:

Food Mereh andise Non-Alcoholic Beverages Alcoholic Beverages

Indicate type of items to be sold:
SHIRTS. ART. JEWELRY, MUSIC, FOOD

 

Section (1- 

 

Name of Private Security CompanszB AT THIS TIME

Contact Person:

Address: Phone:

g?ilvamtefiip:

 

Imbur of Private Sucuri Personnel irutl Pur Shift:

USUALLY AROUND 120

   

Are the private security personnel (check all that apply):

Licensed Armed Bonded

 

How will you advise attendees of parking options?

VIA OUR SOCIAL MEDIA OUTLETS, WEB SITE, PHONE APP

 

 

Section 7- bl 

 

How will your event Impact the surrounding community e. pedestrian traf?c, sound carryover, safety)?
THE MAIN IMPACT IS THE ROAD CLOSURES EXECUTED IN ORDER TO BUILD PRODUCE AND LOAD OUT
THE EVENT. JAZZ FESTIS VERY FORTUNATE TO HAVE STRONG RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE SURROUNDING
BUSINESSES AND MANY CITY DEPARTMENTS THAT ASSIST US IN CARRYING THIS OUT. JAZZ IS A 
AND THE ATRE DESIGNED FOR COVERAGE PRIMARILY IN THE CROWD AREAS 50 SOUND

Have local neighborhood groupslbusinesses approved your event? . Yes El No

THAT IS IMPLEMENTED ONCE THE FINAL
CLOSURE PLAN IS APPROVED DPWAND DPD AND THE MAYORS OFFICE.

 

Section 8- li?I'liN'l' 

Complete the appropriate categories that apply to the event Structure

How Many? SizeII-leight
Booth TB 
Tents (enclosed on 3 sides) TBD
Canopy (open on all sides) TB 
Staging/Scaffolding FOU 40x40/4ox40/32x40/24x24

Bleachers 0

Section 9- ALL THAT APPLY

 

Emergency medical services?

Contact Person: HART MEDICAL - ADAM - 248-789-3648

Address:

City18tateZiP= ETRO IT, I.

Name of company providing port-a-johnsJOH SANITATION

Contact Person: DANIEL DOCIS

Address: Phone: 248-437-0841
Ciw/StateIZip:

Name of private cateringeompanyMN DIAMO ITALIA

Contact DAVIDSON

Address: Phone:248-420-4057

CitnytateI'Zip:

 

 

 

SPECIAL USE REQUESTS

List any streets or possible streets you are requesting to be closed. Include the day, date, and time of requested closing and reopening.
Neighborhood Signatures must be submitted with application for approval. Barricados are not available from the City ol.? Detroit.

 

Attach a map or sketch of the proposed area for closure.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STREET NAME: 

FROM: STATE LARN ED

CLOSURE DATES: 8/28/2019 BEGTIME: 9 PM END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: 913/20 19 TIME:

STREET NAME: CON RES 5

FROM: GRIWOLD To: BATES

CLOSURE DATES: 8/29/2019 BEGTIME: 5 PM END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: 9/3/2019 TIM IE:

STREET NAME: CADILLAC SQUARE

FROM: WOODWARD BATES

CLOSURE DATES: 8/2 7/2019 BEGTIME: 6 AM END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: 9?890 19 TIME:

STREET NAME: MICHIGAN AVENU 

FROM: GRISWOLD m, WOODWARD

CLOSURE DATES: 8/28/209 BEG TIME: 9 PM END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: 

STREET NAME: MONROE

FROM: FARMER m: WOODWARD

CLOSURE DATES: 8/28/2019 BEG TIME: 9 PM END TIME:
REOPEN DATE: 9/3/2019 TIME:

 

10

 

 

 

 

PLEASE ADD MPORTANT INFORMATION BELOW AND ATTACH A COPY OF THE FOLLOWING:

1)
2)
3)
4)

5)

CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE
EMERGENCY MEDICAL AGREEMENT
SANITATION AGREEMENT

FOR T-A JOHN AGREENIENT

COMMUNITY COMMUNICATION

11

 

 

 

 

AUTHORIZATION AF ADAVIT OF APPLICANT

I certify that the information contained in the foregoing application is true and correct
to the best of my knowledge and belief that have read, understood and agreed to
abide by the rules and regulations governing the proposed Special Event, and I
understand that this application is made subject to the rules and regulations established
by the Mayor or the Mayor?s designee. Applicant agrees to comply with all other
requirements of the City, County, State, and Federal Government and any other
applicable entity, which may pertain to Special Events. I further agree to abide by
these rules, and further certify that I, on behalf of the Event agree to be ?nancially
responsible for any costs and fees that may be incurred by or on behalf of the Event, to
1'16 

12/10/2018

 

Signature of Applicant Date

NOTE: Completion of this form does not constitute approval of your event. Pending review by
the Special Events Management Team, you will be noti?ed of any requirements, fees, and/or
restrictions pertaining to your event.

HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFICATION

The Applicant agrees to indemnify and hold the City of Detroit (which includes its
agencies, officers, elected of?cials, appointed of?cials and employees) harmless from
and against injury, loss, damage or liability (or any claims in respect of the
foregoing including claims for personal injury and death, damage to property, and
reasonable outside attorney?s fees) arising from activities associated with this permit,
except to the extent attributable to the gross negligence or intentional act or omission of
the City.

Applicant affirms that Applicant has read and understands the Hold Harmless and
Indemnification provision and agrees to the terms expressed therein.

Event Name:2019 DETROITJAZZ FESTIVAL Event



 

Event Organizer:
DETROITJAZ FESTIVAL FOU DATION

 


Applicant Signature; .. . 
Date; 12/10/2018

 

 

12

 

 

swift.



v.

5V

QuickenLoans

March 7, 2019 CONTACT: Detroit Jazz Festival Media Team
dIffrnedia@detroitiazzfest.org
(313) 530-7860

Jazz Festival Recognized as Detroit's Greenest Outdoor Event

The Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation was announced today as the winner of the 2019 Pure
Award during the Pure Michigan Governor?s Conference on Tourism in Traverse City, Michigan. The
award recognizes Michigan tourism entities that have pioneered the incorporation of innovative and
exemplary best practices in natural, cultural and/or heritage stewardship into their daily operations.
With an attendance of more than 300,000 people throughout Labor Day weekend, the Detroit Jazz
Festival presented by Quicken Loans is recognized as the "greenest? outdoor event in Detroit.

The Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation was celebrated for its "Greening of the Jazz Festival,? a partnership
with the DTE Foundation and managed onsite by Schupan SustainAbilityTM, that overall reduced the
festival?s carbon footprint and educated attendees during last year?s event.

?We are extremely appreciative of our partner, the DTE Foundation, for joining us on the quest to
become the greenest jazz fest in the Midwest,? said Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation President and
Artistic Director Chris Collins. ?This award not only validates our efforts during last year?s festival, but
also reinforces our commitment to being even more green as we celebrate our 40th year. We are very
thankful for this acknowledgement and what our recycling efforts do for the citizens and city of Detroit.?

Highlights ofthe ?Greening of the Jazz Festival,? included:

0 A zero waste Opening Night Party by recycling glass, beverage containers, plastic film and food
waste. The event achieved a 94.7 percent diversion rate.

0 Signing up 85 residents for Detroit?s curbside recycling program to support the city?s goal of
reaching 30 percent by end of 2018. This was the highest number of registrations during a
public event to date.

0 All material generated at the event?s official hotel, Detroit Marriott at the Renaissance Center,
was recycled, reused, composted or converted to energy, resulting in a landfill-free facility.

0 The festival implemented a free bike valet in Mariner?s Plaza in order to align with Detroit's
mission to create an accessible and bike-friendly city.

By working collaboratively with stakeholders, the Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation continues to support
sustainable tourism and events taking place within the city by creating best practices for other Detroit
events. Since 2011, the Foundation has diverted 41,751 pounds of material from the landfill.

 


wtstuuonr

QuickenLoans

About the Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation

The Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation is an independent, non-profit organization that presents jazz and
educational workshops throughout the year. The Foundation supports the Detroit Jazz Festival
presented by Quicken Loans, which is the largest free jazz festival in the world and a major tourist
attraction for the City of Detroit, with 26 percent of its audience coming from out of state. For more
information, visit detroitjazzfest.org.

Major corporate partners include Quicken Loans, J.P. Morgan Chase Co., DTE Foundation, Ford Motor
Company, Carhartt, Inc., Mack Avenue Music Group, Dirty Dog Jazz Cafe and Comcast Cable. Additional
partners include AARP, Absopure, AMTECH International, Andiamo, Ascension Michigan, Bedrock
Detroit, Bingham Legal Group, Blake?s Hard Cider, Central Michigan University, Cliff Bell?s, Detroit
Marriott at the Renaissance Center, Detroit Saxophone Center, Detroit Orchestra, Digital
Planet, Domino's, Downtown Detroit Partnership, Fifth Third Bank, George Johnson Company, Giffels
Webster, Greektown Casino-Hotel, House of Pure Vin, Lyft, Metropolitan Hotel Partners, MGM Grand
Detroit, Oakland University, Pepsi, Plante Moran, Rocket Fiber, Schupan SustainAbiIityTM, Stella Artois,
Steinway Piano Gallery of Detroit, Tito?s Handmade Vodka, Wayne State University, Whole Foods
Market and Woodward Gallery. Media partners include Fox 2, WJR, WEMU-FM, DownBeat, JazzTimes,
Metro Times, WDET, WRCJ and Detroit Public Television.



corporate ISIC) Cial A reviveland commitment to

greaterforthe

RESPOHSI bl llty Re p0 rt world's Largest freejazz festival.

 

 

 

 

 


I 
nl1tlt- .zl"

{51. 1- i


JHW- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The quest to become the
?Greenestjazz fest in the Midwest"

 

Aword from . 
the Detr0it Jazz Festival Foundation

 

Just like our manyyear?round programs in schools and communities
throughout the Detroit region. we wanted to find a wayto extend the pur-
pose of the Energy Foundation Greening of the Jazz Festival' to
reach all of Detroit's the year.To support the
city-wide curbside recycling enrollment initiative, the Foundation part-
nered with local nonprofit Green Living Science. and sustainability ex-
perts. Schupan Recycling. to provide opportunityto sign up
forthe program.This added feature perfectly spirit ofthe
Jazz Festival. and we thank our partners at DTE Energy Foundation for
making it possible.

  
  

Christopher B. Collins.
President &Artistic Director
Detroit Jazz Festival Foundation

The energy saved at the Festival Detroit Jazz Festival

isenoughto powerasingle . . . 
house in Detroit for Sustainability Program Goals.

the next 9.2 ears!
1. Waste reduction through recycling and

composting programs.
2. Attendee and stakeholder engagement.

3. Cultivating a festival culture to achieve
a balanced triple bottom line.

li.To become the ?Greenestjazz fest in
the Midwest.?

Detroit Jazz Festival Leads
the Way In Event Sustainability

 

By working collaboratively with stakeholders, the Detroit Jazz Festival
Foundation supports sustainable tourism and events taking place
within the city. creating best practices for other Detroit events.

1. All material generated at the event's official hotel. Detroit Marriott at the
Renaissance Center. is recycled, reused. composted or converted to
energy. resulting in a landfill?free facility.

2. Detroit Marriott at the Renaissance Center encouraged gueststo opt into
Marriott's?MakeAGreen Choice? program. a

Social Impact

 

  
  
  
 
  

Educa?on

The DTE Energy Foundation Educational Booth focused
on educating attendees about the Festival's recycting


- 

- if?, Detroit's curbside recycling programtaunched in 2015.

i ff; To supportthe city's goalof reaching 30% participation

bythe end of 2018. the DTE Energy Foundation Educa?
tion Booth partnered with tocat nonprofit Green Living
Science and Schupan provide resi-
dents an opportunityto sign up forthe program. Bythe
end ofthe Festival, 83 residents signed up this isthe
highest number of registrations during a public event
to date!

ugh-h.-




I 

 

Economiclmpact

Bike Valet

. . To align with Detroit 5 mission to create an accessible and
bike? friendly city the Festivalimplementedafreebike

valet In Mariners Plaza. The valet promoted clean trans?

portation options for downtown residentsand encouraged
. attendees to use alternate forms oftransportation to

   
 
 
  
 
   

Closing the LOOP

Processing ofthe plastic and aluminum items used by and
at the Festival was done at Hamtramck Recycling. Items
collected of a low quality were taken to Detroit's Renew?
able Power Plant. As a result, 100% of the recyclables col?
lected from the event were diverted from the landfillThe
-. . energy created by Detroit Renewable Power is used to

3. powerfacilities in downtown Detroit, including the Festi?
val's host hotel, the Detroit Marriott at the Renaissance

Center. a

 

Environmental Impact

 

 
 
    
 

2018 Program Statistics

  
 
  

  
   
    
    
      
  
 
     

   

933,515 Cardboard 1.140
Plasticand 2000
. .. Aluminum 


296yard53 .j Glass 291

.land?llspacs 1' 
A Compost 1.179
2018 Signage 78
sav'"gs PlasticFilm 76

TOTALS 4.764
REFUSE 18.480

DIVERSION

Zero Waste Opening Night Party

The VIP Opening Night Party welcomed fans, sponsors, staff and stake?
holdersto celebrate the kickoff ofthe 2018 Detroit Jazz Festival presented by
Quicken Loans.Through a collaborative partnership with the Festival. Andiamo
Catering and Schupan SustainAbilityTM, the 2018 event wasthe first initiative in the
Festival's historyto achieve zero waste (defined as a 90% or higher diversion rate).
By recycling glass. beverage containers. plastic film and food waste. along with the
use of compostable servewa re (purchased Green Safe), the event
achieved a 94.7% diversion rate!



. l'n anmiingvrahnve 
gona_: 




is? 


MIA-

MID-?lth??

zanu WASTE EVENT 32.75-22er

Kl] NEED [0 SURL Ml. SERWHE
USED .IHE CDHPUSTIELE

 

I'i @detroitjazzfestival
@detroitjazzfest
@detroitjazzfest

 

Energya


Foundation

schupanability.cam

lm? ?gs: mm

 

MICHIGAN GIVING

STORIES OF MICHIGAN TOURISM INDUSTRY GENEROSITY

--


12?.
[En
an:



511'

.351
I:

WINNER

Social Impact
Inspiration From
Michigan?s
Tourism Leaders

5 



Michigan Cares for
Tourism?s 2019
Volunteer Events

2r27r19 a:1oPM  

I 1

 

   

1% 2019 PURE CONTENTS
AWARD WINNER 

4 1 0 2 Welcome
3 Pure Award Winner
SIX INSPIRING
- STORIES OF THE 4 Shepler's Mackinac Island Ferry
WAY 
. TOURISM 5 Frankenmuth CVB
INDUSTRY GIVES .
6 Bavarian Inn
7 FireKeepers Casino Hotel
9 Holland CVB
1 1 10 Bar?y Ventures
. ?2 MICHIGAN CARES 11 MC4T2018Review
FOR TOURISM 2018
't REVIEW 13 2018 Impact Report

LEELANAU STATE PARK BACK
COVER

SEPTEMBER 16 - 17 WAYS T0 GIVE
. . IN 2019!
MICHIGAN CARES
FUR 

and learn about a tourism destination. 2019 EVENTS

I MC4T_Magazine.indd 2 2/27/19 

Welcome to
MICHIGAN
GIVING

This 100% volunteer/give back
publication was created by
Michigan Cares for Tourism
(MC4T). In 2019, 
board ofdirectors challenged
the team to continue to do more
with the generous resources
provided to us by the industry
and ?nd additional ways to engage
Michigan's tourism industry in
volunteerism, giving, learning, and
collaboration. In 2018 we added

MC4T_Magazina.indd 3

 

to our annual multi day volunteer
event by providing 1/2 day
volunteer opportunities at the

Pure Michigan Governors
Conference and a new program
during National Tourism Week
called Adopt a Bed (see page
12). In line with our mission of
restoring Michigan?s historic,
cultural, and natural attractions,
MC4T strives to engage the
tourism industry across
disciplines and help learn about
destinations while we work at
building a stronger community
of tourism prtfessionals. We
hope this publication is one
more way in which we help
you learn about the many ways
our tourism industry gives of
their time, talents, and resources.
Get inspired Jfrom stories from
six ot'our tourism industry

leaders on pages 4?10. Learn
why the Detroitjazz Festival
Foundation was recognized as
the 2019 Pure Award winner
on page 3. And, check out
2019 event (oh, and
comejoin us on the back
cover. Thank you for allowing
us an opportunity to share some
oFour industry's generosity.
1fyou have or know ofother
giving stories you want the
industry to learn about, please
share them via email at
janesp@gvsu.edu or 989.424.0123.
Editors, authors, and
photographers ofthis publication
include volunteers otMichigan
Cares for Tourism: Olivia Rau,
Claire Gregoiy, Ami VanAntweip,
Kirsten Victoria
Stubbs, Denny Henson, Maia

Turek, and Pattyjanes. MARCH 2019

2127/19 8:16 

PURE AWARD
WINNER:
DETROIT JAZZ
FESTIVAL
FOUNDATION

--

This evening "Mn
gonoma mm?

uu? 







ZERO WASTE EVENT

NO NEED TO SORT, AIL SERVING
MATERIALS USED ARE COMPOSTAEIE

15" 
I: A

 

I MC4T_Magazlne.lndd 4

The DetroitJazz Festival
Foundation as this year?s
winner ofThe 20l9 Pure
Award. The Pure Award was
designed to recognize Michigan
tourism entities that have
pioneered the incorporation of
innovative and exemplary best
practices in natural, cultural,
and/or heritage stewardship
into their daily operations.
Resources are de?ned broadly
to include historic, architectural,
recreational, and agricultural
as well as natural assets, and
might relate to buildings,
grounds, practices, processes,
programs, and more.

The Detroit]azz Festival
Foundation has exempli?ed
the values of the Pure Award

in their quest to become ?the
greenest jazz fest in the Midwest."
Through their innovative
partnership with DTE Energy
Foundation on the Festival?s
uGreening Proj ect,? the
DetroitJazz Festival is taking
big steps to reduce its carbon
Footprint and educate attendees.
This past year, the Festival
achieved a zero waste Opening
Night Party with a 94.7% diversion
rate by utilizing recyclable and
compostable materials.

By working collaboratively
with stakeholders, the Detroit
jazz Festival Foundation
continues to support sustainable
tourism and events taking place
within the city by creating

best practices for other Detroit
events. Since 201], the Foundation
has diverted 41,751 pounds
ofmaterial From the land?ll.
With an attendance of more
than 50,000 people throughout

the weekend, the DetroitJazz
Festival is the greenest outdoor
event to take place in Detroit.
The energy saved at the 2018
Festival is enough to power a
single house in Detroit for the
next 9.2 years.

Congratulations to the Detroit
Jazz Festival Foundation on
receiving this well-deserved
recognition and paving the way
for sustainable tourism efforts
in Detroit!

Thank you to this year?s review
committee coordinated by
Olivia Rau, Michigan Cares for
Tourism and Grand Valley
State University Graduate
Assistant.

Members included:

- Maia Turek, 
MC4T

- Jon Allan, O?ice OFthe
Great Lakes

- Marci Cisneros, Grand
Haven Area CVB

- Dennis Eade, Ml
Steelhead SC Salmon
Fishermen's Association

- Bonnie Fink, 
Travel Michigan Travel
and Tourism

- Betty Workman, Vacation
Trailer Park and Sales

Clay Summers, mParks

2/27/19 

 

I I MC4T_Magazinelndd 5

INSPIRATIONAL STORY

MACKINAC
ISLAND FERRY

Shepler?s Ferry in Mackinaw City gets involved in its community
in multiple capacities throughout the year through its ?Give
Back" program. Once a year, Shepler?s pays for a random stranger?s
bridge toll. rllhey make cards and give them to the toll booth
operators to hand out at random and ask them to pay it forward.
Similarly, Shepler?s Ferry pays it Forward annually by donating
over $10,000 in free tickets to worthy causes throughout Michigan.
In addition, ten percent of the proceeds from their Lighthouse
Cruises are donated to the Great Lakes Lighthouse Keepers
Association for upkeep of area lighthouses.

Beyond its business, the folks at Shepler?s give back through
volunteerism as well. Every year, the Shepler?s team participates
in the Cheboygan County Walk for Warmth, which raises money
for those in Cheboygan county struggling to a??brd their utilities.
They even brave the cold with a Salvation Army Bell Take?Over
in Cheboygan where cast members ?ll an entire day through
shifts at one of their bell ringing sites. In the warmer days of 2018,
they set up lemonade stands on their docks for Alex?s Lemonade
Stand to fundraise to bene?t research for childhood cancer. Last
year, they also cleaned a three?mile stretch of I?75just south of
Mackinaw City through the Adopt-A-Highway program.

MARCH 2019

2/27/19 

ISSUE 01

I M04T_Magazlna.lndd a

 

INSPIRATIONAL STORY

FRANKENMUTH CONVENTION
AND VISITORS BUREAU

Frankenmuth is known for being home to the world?s largest
Christmas store, world famous chicken dinners, and its major
festivals. The town attributes their level ofsuccess to its commitment
to philanthropy. Most of the hotels, restaurants, shops, and
attractions are locally owned and operated which creates a special
atmosphere for Frankenmuth's guests.

Most of the town?s events are run solely by volunteer committees
and proceeds are donated back to the community and charities.
The World Expo of Beer (WEB) in May is a great example of
Fran kenmuth?s small community coming together to raise money;
it?s not uncommon for donation amounts to reach $100,000 from
WEB. The WEB alone takes nearly 400 volunteers over three
shifts to execute!

As one of the oldest festivals in Michigan, the rankenmuth
Bavarian Festival has seen its challenges over the years. The CVB
acted as a liaison between the local organization in charge of
running the event, the Civic Events Council (CBC), and the
business community, to create a more sustainable plan for a festival
that means so much to the town?s German heritage. As a team,
they were able to successfully move the festival downtown, where
it originally started, and threw one heck ofa street party, with

a zip-line running right down Main Street! As volunteers, they
set up tables and chairs, moved sponsor vehicles, printed signage,
executed marketing and helped make the event run smoothly.

Aside from helping to plan these events, the rankenmuth CVB
volunteers as much as they can all year round. Peg Reinhardt,
the former Of?ce Manager, is seen at nearly every festival
volunteering at admissions, pouring beer at World Expo of Beer,
emptying trashcans, and helping clean up after the event.

In Frankenmuth, volunteerism isn?tjust a buzzword; it?s a way of
life in Michigan?s Little Bavaria.

227119 

INSPIRATIONAL STORY

BAVARIAN

I MC4T_Magazlna.Indd 7

INN

In 2018, the Bavarian Inn
Restaurant raised $15,325
through its Company Giving
Program to Wings of Mercy,

a charity that provides
transportation to distant
medical facilities for patients
who can?t afford to The
yearlong campaign concluded
at the end of December and
the grand total for fundraising
was announced at the post?holiday
employee party on January 7.
According to Michelle Solgat,
co?chairperson of this year?s
Bavarian Inn Company Giving
Program, employees raised
funds for this charity through
voluntary payroll deduction,
candy sales, a holiday open
house event and other activities
throughout the year. uThe
Bavarian Inn Restaurant,?
Solgat added, ?has over 400
caring team members who give
so generously each year to help
those in need. We look forward
to an exciting year of giving in

2019."

 

The Bavarian Inn has kept the
Company Giving Program alive
for more than 32 years. Some
of the other charities the they
have supported through this
program include:

. Special Days Camp
Child Abuse and
Neglect Council

- Special Olympics of

Michigan

Defeat Multiple

System Atrophy

. And many more!

Bavarian Inn staffers have
taken part in Michigan Cares
for Tourism events every year
since it began in 2013 with the
Mill Lake Clean-Up. Most
recently, they sent a delegation
to Michigan Cares? Fort
Wilkins Historic State Park at
Copper Harbor in the UP.

MARCH 2019

227x19 

 

1 MC4T_Magazine.indd 

 

Ill :il Hi Ill [l 5"

FIREKEEPERS
CASINO
HOTEL

Back in 2017 the 1*?i reKeepers
team had an epiphany regarding
community involvement and
social responsibility. They
thought, ?How could our
company make an impact

on our community through
education, food security, and
nutrition The single word or
?mission statement" that kept
surfacing was 
The team Wondered, ?How
could we immerse ourselVes

in the community and Lise our
particular skill set to help make
people?s lives better and improVe
their well?heing 

FireKeepers came up with an
idea to renovate a historic ?re
station in downtown Battle
Creek?s industrial area that
would serve two purposes.
liirst, it would he a one?ot?a?
kind restaurant featuring fresh
and nutritional foods where the
pro?ts and donations would go
directly to nonprofit organizations;
The Food Bank otSouth
Central Michigan 

but soon to expand to other

2/27/19 

area charities as well. Secondly,
FireKeepers was able to partner
with to open The
Kendall Street Pantry, a choice
pantry serving the Greater Battle
Creek area and surrounding
cities. The pantry was designed
to eliminate some ()Fthe
negative stigmas associated
with food pantries and to
restore and preserve dignity
While offering a choice shopping
experience to help customize
the offerings based on individual
family needs. In the ?rst year of
the partnership, the pantry
distributed over 75,000 pounds
offood to more than 8,500
people and families. The pantry
serves an average 01"85 people
per week and is currently looking
into opening another day of

the week to help accommodate
people working the night shift.
Next, FireKeepers began a
partnership with a local school
fresh food initiative called
Operation Fit. They have
worked with this group for
almost a year now and couldn?t
be happier with the results.

MC4T_Magazlna.lndd 9

Each week the team delivers
fresh produce and snacks to
area schools for children to
enjoy during the day. The
Children are then encouraged to
take a bag home with them so
their parents are able to introduce
the fresh Fruits and vegetables
into healthy recipes in the
home. They started with two
schools in the beginning of

the partnership, and have now
grown to six schools and a
consortium (Battle Creek
Shared Service Alliance 
that also bene?ts another six
venues. Along with the Operation
Fit group, FireKeepers is now
doing 35 deliveries annually for
the six schools, plus 52 deliveries
a year for BCSSA.

Most recently, ireKeepers
undertook a project to help
increase tribal food security and
sovereignty, while at the same
time being able to provide fresh
produce to schools at no cost

to help enhance the nutritional
quality of their lunch programs.
To achieve this goal, FireKeepers

has constructed a year round
hydroponic/aquaponics
greenhouse on The Pine
Creek Reservation in Athens,
Michigan. This greenhouse is
designed to provide produce at
no cost to all members ofThe 8
Nottawaseppi Huron Band of
the Potawatomi Indian Tribe
through lunch and learn
programs and scheduled
distributions. In addition, the
produce will be provided to the
schools in the form ofa salad
bar that the folks at FireKeepers
will provide at no cost For all
students and teachers. The
produce will be grown, prepared,
and delivered to the school, and
will be available each day For
the students to have a nutritious
supplement to their lunch at
zero cost. FireKeepers will be
debuting this pilot program at
Athens schools this year and
expanding next year into other
schools that have the highest
rate of?ce and reduced lunches.

MARCH 2019

2127/19 3:16 

 

I I M04T_Magazlne.lndd 1o

INSPIRATIONAL STORY

DISCOVER
HOLLAND

In February of2010 Holland,
Michigan hit national headlines
when it was named the second
happiest city in the U.S. This
recognition piqued the interest
of journalist, Diane Sawyer.
She thought, "How can a small
town, in a state suffering from
high unemployment and nasty
winters, beat out so many
other cities in the happiness
department?? So Diane and
her cameras Visited then
Mayor, Kurt toured
the city, sat down with locals,
and found the answer.

Ramona L. Scott, from Brooklyn,
New York, watched Diane?s
report on the evening news and
was so impressed with the way

the community expressed
contentment in the face of
hardship that she sent the Mayor
a $250 check instructing him to
distribute in increments of $25
to those who could use a boost.
Ms. Scott?s generosity inspired
the citizens of Holland, who
began sending checks to
augment the Ramona L. Scott
Fund, and who eventually
created Pay it Forward Holland.

Through the site, they distribute
Pay it Forward Holland cards
to be handed out along with
random acts of kindness in
any form of giving imaginable.
The card directs the recipient
of the random act to this
website where the kind gesture
can be recorded, used to inspire
others to pay it forward, and to
follow how many others are
impacted by the ?rst act.
Together, the community can
build on Ramona Scott?s
humble act of kindness, creating
an endless wave of compassion
that resonates around the

world. Here are some of the
entries thus far:

?Came hat/c to my deo? ey?ier lunch
aadfozmd a heautzj?id dragon?y
pin with a Pay it Forward card.
How cool! I made me 
and thz'nh ahout what] am do for
romeone. 

"Thir evening my hurhand and

I decided to tahe our three rma/l
children to OP ?r W22
had a great time and a great meal.
This z'r romethz'ng we dont do a?en
50 it war great to get out with
the?zmz/y. we went to pay we
were given their card. What an
amazirzg?e/iag we had haowzag
romeone war .ro geaerour and hind
to m. I am [oohzagforward to
gzw'ng the; joy to romeone eke. God
Herr! 

 

vm 

:1

2127119 3:16 PM I 

SPIFHAHWRI STORY

BARFLY VENTURES

Each BarFly location has a GROW (Green, Responsible, Outreach,
Wellbeing) Team that works toward the betterment of the
environment, community, and themselves. Over more than 300
volunteer hours, the teams worked hard this year to help build a
house through Habitat for Humanity; pick up trash and recycling
around their neighborhoods and beaches; take a chilly polar
plunge to raise money for the Special Olympics; get moving for
good by running 5K3 to raise money for local and, gained
knowledge by touring BarFly?s compost facilities and much morel

 

Barh?ly Ventures is a member of FeelGood Tap, a coalition of.
bars, breweries, and craft?brew loving restaurants that raises
thousands ofdollars for local nonpro?ts across Michigan through
beer sales. BarFly alone raised $42.8 thousand for local nonpro?ts,
which included donations to local food banks, Flint Water,
League of Women Voters, local disability aid networks, and for
local nonpro?ts.

In addition to raising funds, Bar?y Ventures works to reduce its 10
waste, educate its employees on waste reduction practices and
composting, and share its knowledge ofsustainable business
practices with public schools and universities across the state.

As a founding member ofthe Great Lakes Business Network
(GLBN) ?a network ofbusiness leaders committed to protecting
the Great Lakes from environmental threats?BarFly works to
protect the Great Lakes. The do this, in part, by spreading awareness
and raising funds for the shutdown of Engine Line 5 in the Straits of
Mackinac. The GLEN arranged for 2018 gubernatorial candidate,
Abdul El?Sayed, to meet any interested GLBN members at
Grand Rapids Brewing Company to ask questions about how
clean, affordable water and the Great Lakes ?t into his agenda.

MARCH 2019

 

I MC4T_Magazineindd 11 227119 

ISSUE 01

 

11

Do you know of
Michigan tourism
organizations making an
amazing social impact?

Submit a giving story to
janesp@gvsu.edu.

I MC4T_Magazina.lndd 12

 

MICHIGAN

CARES FOR
TOURISM
2018 REVIEW

Thank you for supporting
Michigan Cares for Tourism
(MC4T) in 2018. Our 100%
volunteer/give?back partnership
with Michigan tourism
organizations and professionals
continues to provide opportunities
to give, learn, and grow together.
In 2018, 365 tourism industry
professionals volunteered
saving historic sites in Grand
Rapids and Copper Harbor
$100,000 in labor and supply
savings. These savings would
not have been possible without
you. Ninety?seven (97)
organizations ?nancially
supported these efforts.

To date, collectively as a

tourism community, we have

invested over $600,000 in labor

and supply savings to various
projects engaging 2,365 industry
volunteers and hundreds of
tourism organizations. Your
contribution has made a
difference in restoring historic
Michigan attractions, building a
stronger tourism community,
promoting destinations, and
creating enhanced visitor
experiences. Highlights from 2018


 

A Three Day Event at
Fort Wilkins

COPPER HARBOR
SEPTEMBER 16-18

Fort Wilkins Historic State
Park, at Michigan?s most northern
point, encompasses more than
700 acres and features a restored
19th century military post, one
of the ?rst lighthouses built on
Lake Superior, a campground,
hiking and biking trails,
playgrounds, and day use park.
Our 23 different projects
completed by 160 tourism
industry volunteers impacted
the entire region. As a 42 year
Fort Wilkins (DNR) staff
member stated, ?This would
have never been possible without
you." Projects ranged from
painting historic structures and
replacing Fort posts to enhancing
the view by Iandscaping/ brush
removal and adding a root. and
ADA ramp for accessibility.
Volunteers learned more about
the region with a visit to the
Keweenaw National Historical
Park in Calumet and excursions
around the region.

212mg 

 

Trailer Events

PURE 
CONFERENCE 

MARCH 28

For the second year in a row,
MC4T kicked off this year?s
PMGC with 50 industry
volunteers making an impact
on Grand Rapids parks following
massive ?ooding that damaged
many of the 74 city parks. And,
they did it in the rain!

MOI-T continues to support

all industry volunteerism. In
April, the trailer full of tools
was used in a city?Wide greening
initiative in Grand Rapids.

I MC4T_Maga2Ine.indd 13

First Student
Planned Event in
Grand Rapids

APRIL 25

Grand Valley State University
(GVSU) recreation leadership
students planned their ?rst
student?led MC4T event on
April 25. Sixty students made
an impact along the White
Pine Trail in Riverside Park
enhancing picnic tables and
removing brush to see the river

views and beautify the landscape.

 

New Adopt a Bed
Grand Rapids
Initiative

NATIONAL TOURISM WEEK

MAY 6?12

MC4T continues to seek
opportunities to make an impact.
We realized our multi?day
industry volunteer events met
the needs of some organizations
and volunteers. However, more
could be done in the community
where tourism organizations
are based. The Adopt a Bed
program was launched this year
Where 125 volunteers from 23
tourism organizations adopted
27 Grand Rapids parks beds
void of ?owering plants. Staff
from sponsoring organizations
donated and plan ted all ?owers
and refreshed ?ower beds in
May. Grand Rapids Parks and
Recreation Department Green
Stewards watered and maintained
the beds in summer. And, the
organizations again planted
tulips this fall, Winterizing beds
for the season.

12

MARCH 2019

2127119 i

ISSUE 01

MC4T_Magazlne.lndd 14

 

September 1648
Fort Wilkins Historic State Park

Fort Wilkins was the seventh multi-day
event since 2013 and the first time the
event sold out four weeks in advance.

 

2127/19 8:17 PMI 

 

160 helping hands

2,365 helping hands
over seven years

23 revitalization projects

62 donor
organizations

volunteers stayed an
average of 4 nights in the
UP (those not on coaches)

33% took a vacation
day to volunteer

being their 5th event
something pars-snail)" to

ever had at this cvont

A quick note of appreciation to you and your team for another awesome
event! We are an amazing group and I look forward to many more year;

of fun, hard work and success by all. 
- Mike VP Hotel Operations,
Fire-keepers Casino Hotel, Battle Creek

MC4T_Magazineindd 15

 

'2

 

?l

.

14

MARCH 2019

2/27/19 I

  
 

STATE PARK


SEPTEMBER 16-

MC4T is a 100% volunteer, 100% give
back effort where tourism professionals
come together to help restore Michigan's
historic, cultural and natural attractions,
and learn about a tourism destination.

 

Leelanau State Park, located
at the tip of Michigan' 5 little
finger on the beautiful Leelanau
Peninsula, has more than 1 3,00
acres waiting for visitors to
explore. The park Is home to a
rustic campground, hiking and
cross- country skiing trails and
the Grand Traverse Lighthouse
Museum, where visitors can walk

 

 

Pure Michigan Governor's Conference rate - $50
Through March 8, 2019

 

 

 

 

 

through the restored keeper's

dwelling and climb the tower

for spectacular views of Lake Event rate - March 9 toJuly 31, 2019 $75
Late registration - after Aug 1,2019 $100

 

?Price increase does not apply if you or your employer is a MC4T member/donor

 

To register, text to 76959 or
visit michigancaresfortourism.org

2/27/19 

1s

2019?01-09 635

635 Petition of he Detroit Jazz Festival
Foundation, request to hold "2019
Detroit Jazz Festival at Hart Plaza,
on Woodward Avenue and Cadillac
Square on August 3 0-September 2,
2019?om 11:00 AMto 11:00 PM
each day with various street closures.
Set up begins 8-22-19 and tear down
ends 9-6-19.

 

REFERRED TO THE FOLLOWING 

OFFICE POLICE DEPARTMENT

FIRE DEPARTMENT DPW - CITY ENGINEERING
DIVISION

BUSINESS LICENSE CENTER PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

RECREATION DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL PARKING



