

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE



OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6001778 100% Federal Funding To Provide Shelter, Life Skills, Health Care, Education,
and Other Services to Homeless Individuals. Contractor: Coalition on
Temporary Shelter Location: 26 Peterboro, Detroit, MI 48201 Contract
Period: Upon City Council Approval through December 31, 2019 ?Total Contract
Amount: $150,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respect?illy submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement O?icer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement
BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001778 referred to in the foregoing communication dated March
19, 2019 be hereby and is approved.

/2

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6001926 100% City Funding To Provide the Residential Rehab at 8291 Artesian for the
Bridging Neighborhoods Program. Contractor: Jozef Contractor, Inc. 
Location: 11691 Klinger, Hamtramck, MI 48212 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through March 26, 2020 ?Total Contract Amount: $49,335.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement
BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001926 referred to in the foregoing communication dated March
1, 2019 be hereby and is approved.

/3

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6001933 100% City Funding To Provide the Residential Rehab at 2631 Casper, and 1936
Oakdale for the Bridging Neighborhoods Program. Contractor: Jozef
Contractor, Inc. Location: 1 1691 Klinger, Hamtramck, MI 48212 Contract
Period: Upon City Council Approval through March 18, 2020 ?Total Contract
Amount: $153,560.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement
BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001933 referred to in the foregoing communication dated March
19, 2019 be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6001934 100% City Funding - To Provide the Residential Rehab at 5766 Haverhill for the
Bridging Neighborhoods Program. Contractor: Jozef Contractor, Inc. 
Location: 11691 Klinger, Hamtramck, MI 48212 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through March 19, 2020 ?Total Contract Amount: $75,240.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement
BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001934 referred to in the foregoing communication dated March
19, 2019 be hereby and is approved.



OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
?rm(s) or person(s):

6001935 100% City Funding To Provide the Residential Rehab at 5842 Porter for the
Bridging Neighborhoods Program. Contractor: Jozef Contractor, Inc. 
Location: 11691 Klinger, Hamtramck, MI 48212 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through March 18, 2020 ?Total Contract Amount: $80,850.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001935 referred to in the foregoing communication dated March
19, 2019 be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 13, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the following
firm(s) or person(s):

6001941 100% City Funding To Provide the Residential Rehab at 7343 Sarena, 7351
Sarena for the Bridging Neighborhoods Program. Contractor: Jozef Contractor,
Inc. Location: 11691 Klinger, Hamtramck, MI 48212 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through March 19, 2020 ?Total Contract Amount:
$174,460.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respect?Jlly submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement
BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001941 referred to in the foregoing communication dated March
19, 2019 be hereby and is approved.

/7

Qtitp at matron
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313. 224.3487 Fax: 313. 224.4336
e-mail: historic@detroitmi.gov

March 11,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: Petition #167 Secondary Street Sign for Rev. Earnest 0. King, Sr

The family of Reverend Earnest 0. King Sr and the members of Mt Calvary Baptist Church submitted a
petition requesting that the intersection of East State Fair Avenue and Riopelle Street be assigned the
secondary street name the Rev. Earnest 0. King Sr. Street in celebration of his contributions to the city of
Detroit and the East State Fair neighborhood. Upon review of the documentation submitted by the
petitioner staff has concluded that the petition does meet the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in
accordance with Article VII SectionsSO-7-3l through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Pubiic Places,
Article VII, Opening, closing, Ertending, Widening, Vacating, Naming and Renaming of Streets and
Assigning Secondaiy Names :0 Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize
a person who achieved prominence as a result of his or her signi?cant, position, contributions to the City
of Detroit, State of Michigan, the United States of America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural
history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly re?ected or exempli?ed.

2. Sites, buildings, structures, which are identified with historic personages or with important
events in the community, city, state or national history.

Attached for you review and consideration is a resolution setting the required public hearing as well as a
resolution which will authorize the establishment of a Secondary Street Name in honor of Reverend
Earnest 0. King Sr. upon the conclusion of a favorable public hearing, which must be held in accordance
with Section 50-7-35 of the Detroit City Code.

Staff is available to answer any questions you may have.

ReSpectfully submitted,


Jan se Chapman, Deput

  

istoric Designation Advisory Board

At chments

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13?h
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at 3.111., for the purpose of considering the request of Mt. Calvary Baptist
Church requesting the secondary street name in honor of Reverend Earnest 0. King, Sr.
in the area of East State Fair Street and Riopelle Avenue to ?Rev. Earnest 0. King Sr.?

Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit Vicinity, Inc.

8700 Freeway Drive, Detroit, Michigan 48211
Reverend Dr. Deedee M. Coleman, President

 

July 23, 20l8

Mrs. Brenda Jones, President, Detroit City Council
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1340
Detroit, Michigan 49226

Dear President Jones:

As President of the Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity, lnc., I write this correspondence
in support of the effort of a designated street sign for The Reverend Earnest 0. King, Sr.

Over 25 years, Reverend King has served as a faithful member of The Council of Baptist Pastors of
Detroit and Vicinity, Inc. with honor and respect for Church and Community. He has served in many
areas of ministry and programs over the years and considered as a vital member of this Body and
community, speci?cally the City of Detroit.

Reverend King currently serves as the Chair of the Benevolent Committee which he has held this

position for the last 20 years giving pastoral support of all Council members in times of distress and
bereavement.

Under the Council, Reverend King is a Board Member of the Coalition for Black and Jewish Unity
and highly recognized in the Council as a master of planning and community activism. The Council
of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity, lnc. supports recognizing this mighty man of God and
supports the effort of his Congregation it making it so.

As President, the privilege of having to submit this request gives the Council honor in knowing how
deserving Reverend King really is to have a street sign named in his honor gives us greatjoy.

The Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity, Inc. respectfully request that the City of Detroit
City Council would approve our request of having a street named in his honor.

Respectfully,

2m 92. Dealer: Wm

Reverend Dr. Deedee M. Coleman, President
Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity, lnc.

(We

Palestine Missionary Baptist Church
15 78 7 Wyoming A ve.
Detroit, Michigan 48238

 

Phone (313) 341-7605, Fax (248) 424-8510


Ronald C. Burks, Senior Pastor

 

August 20, 2018
To Whom it May Concern,

I am delighted to support the very worthy request regarding having a street
sign named in the honor of the Rev., Dr. Earnest King, the esteemed Pastor
of the Mt. Calvary Baptist Church located at 1720 East State Fair Street, in
the City of Detroit.

Dr. King is a pillar of the community, having given leadership to the Mt.
Calvary church for over 40 years, he is very active in engaging with the
community to make it a better place to live and rear children. He is an
enthusiastic supporter and encourager to our ?rst responders, he has
demonstrated concerns about the safety of the people in the surrounding
community. He has assigned gifted personnel to assist in the leadership of
recreational activities, neighborhood clubs and the like. Has allowed the
church building to accommodate meetings to promote the common good of
all.

Dr. King, though a very humble man is well respected among his peers, as
he serves in meaninng and prestigious positions in the Council of Baptist
Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity, Calvary Baptist District Association,
Wolverine Baptist State Convention and Congress of Christian Education as
well as other civic organizations.

Our community would not be the same without the leadership and vision of
Rev., Dr. Earnest King, one who is deserving of' such a great honor,

ln HIS service,

Pastor Ron Burks,

Element ?issimrarg @nptist @lrurcir
4150 Chene Street - Detroit, MI 40207
(313) 921.7550 - Fax (313) 921.9750

Reverend Robert B. Jones, Sn. Pastor

August 20, 2018

The Street Sign Committee and
The City Council of
The City Of Detroit

To Whom It May Concern:

The following is a letter in support for the acknowledgement one of Detroit?s most dedicated Pastors,
Rev. Earnest D. King, Sr. by naming the street where his church stands in his honor. have known Rev.
King for more than ?fteen years and in that time, I can honestly say that I have been impressed and
inspired by the energy and dedication that he brings to his calling. I greatly value his friendship. Upon
his anniversary this year, Rev. King will have served as the Pastor of Mt. Calvary Baptist Church of Detroit
for 42 years, and in that time, he has become an institution within Detroit's clergy community.

Pastor King is heavily involved with the Council of Baptist Pastors of Detroit and Vicinity, where he has
served as the chair of number of committees. My more direct involvement with Rev. King, however, has
to do with his work with the Calvary Baptist Association, the district to which we both belong. Pastor
King is a past Moderator of the Calvary District and during his term I served as his Special Assistant.
During his time as the leader of Calvary Pastor King served well, helping to establish a number of
innovative programs. Later, when I served a term as President of the Calvary Congress of Christian
Education (the Association's educational arm), Pastor King provided me invaluable advice and counsel.
It was during my time with Calvary that I worked with Rev. King to establish the Emogene King Memorial
Scholarship Fund, honoring Pastor King's late wife, which provided financial support for ?fteen students
from various Calvary churches. Finally, during my tenure as Calvaer President, I appointed Rev. King as
the President of the Voices of Calvary, the association's choir. A position that he still holds.

Because of the things that I have mentioned and for other things too numerous to name, i feel that
Reverend Earnest D. King, Sr. is well deserving of having his name af?xed to the street where he has
served so faithfully. Many streets in Detroit bear the names of people whose contributions to our city
have long since been forgotten. I think that it is only ?tting that the city would honor one of its most
dedicated Pastors while he and his congregation can enjoy and share in the honor.

If you have any questions or concerns, please don't hesitate to call me at 313 683-2750.

Yours truly,

REV. Robert B. Jones,

Pastor, Sweet Kingdom Missionary Baptist Church
Past President, Calvary Congress of Christian Education

 

QEitp of JBetrnit
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313. 224.3487 Fax: 313. 224.4336
e-mail: historic@detroitmi.gov

March 11,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition #670: Lamont ?Showboat? Robinson, founder of the Blues Hall of Fame
submitted a petition requesting that the intersection of Parkside Avenue and McNichol Road
to be assigned the secondary street name for David Ruf?n in honor of legendary

The Historic Designation Advisory Board (HDAB) staff has reviewed the documentation submitted to the
City Clerk?s of?ce by the petitioner for the establishment of a Secondary Street Sign. Upon review of the
documentation submitted (see attachment) staff has determine that reasonable grounds has been provided
and therefore has concluded that the petition meets the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in
accordance with Article VII Sections 50-7-31 through Sections 50-7-50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Otlrer Public Places, Article
VII, Opening, Closing, Extending, Widening, Vacating. Naming and Renaming of Streets and Assigning
Secondary Names t0 Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize a person
who achieved prominence as a result of his or her signi?cant, position, contributions to the City of Detroit,
State of Michigan, the United States of America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural
history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly re?ected or exempli?ed.

2. Sites, buildings, structures, which are identi?ed with historic personages or with important
events in the community, city, state or national history.

Staff is available to answer any questions and or concerns you may have.

Respectfully submitted,


  

 
   
 

Historic Designation Advisory Board
lAttachments

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Planning and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13''1
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at for the purpose of considering the request of Lamont ?Showboat?
Robinson, founder of the Blues Hall of Fame requesting the secondary street
name in honor of David Ruf?n in the area of W. McNichols Road and Parkside Avenue
to ?David Ruf?n Ave."

.ga?THE BITY 0F DETROIT rHE?HnMEbr-nirl??lrF-Ii?
NAME THE STREET .- . 17385 PAHKSIDE STREET
PABKSIDE STREET 

THE LATE GREAT 1
DAVID HUFFIN T0 
HUFFIN STREET, DRIVE, WAY 1; 
on BLVD~David Ruf?n, incredible-voiced singer of The Temptations~
He Purchased this English Tudor in the fall ofi 970. He's buried at Wood-
lawn Cemetery; section 3, lot 243, grave 3.

His home here on Parkside Street and his gravesite is one of the most
landmarks for tourists that come into the City of Detroit.

 

 

 



David Ruf?n

    

as;
Background information

Birth name Davis Eli Ru?inm
January 18, 1941
Whynot, Mississippi . U.S.

June 1. 1991 (aged 50)
Died Philadelphia. 
US.

Born


Pop
Soul
Disco
Gospel

Genres

Occupation(s) Singer

. Vocals
instruments . drums

Years active 1956-1991

. Anna

Chess
Motown
Warner Bros.
RCA

Labels

The Temptations
Jimmy Ruf?n

Eddie Kendricks
Dennis Edwards

Associated
acts

David Eli Ruffin (born Davis Eli Ruffin,[1] January 18. 1941 June 1, 1991) was an American soul singer and musician
most famous for his work as one of the lead singers of The Temptations (1964?68) during the group's "Classic Five? period as
it was later known. He was the lead voice on such famous songs as "My Girl" and ?Ain't Too Proud to Beg?.

Known for his unique new and anguished tenor vocals. Ruf?n was ranked as one of the 100 Greatest Singers of All Time
by Rolling Stone magazine in 2008.[2] He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1939 for his work with The

Temptations.[3] Fellow Motown recording artist Marvin Gaye once said admiringly of Ruf?n that, heard [in his voice] a
strength my own voice 

Early life

Ruf?n was born Davis Eli Ruffin in the rural unincorporated community of Whynot. Mississippi, 15 miles from Meridian,
Mississippi. He was the third born son of Elias ?Eli? Ruf?n, a Baptist minister, and Ophelia Ruf?n. His siblings were Quincy B.
Ruf?n, Rita Mae Ru?in. and Jimmy L. Ruf?n. Ruf?n also had another sister. who died in infancy.

In? a.



Ancestry

David Ruf?n's parents were both natives of Mississippi. His father Eli worked as a truck driver at numerous lumber mills. and
his mother Ophelia worked out of their home. Eli's parents had moved from Alabama to Mississippi. because of the harsh
circumstances of living after the American Civil War. Prior to living in Alabama, David Ruf?n's great grandparents. John Ruf?n
and Clara Ruf?n, had moved from Bertie County, North Carolina. John Ruffin was a Civil War Veteran, ?ghting with the 14th
United States Colored Heavy Artillery Regiment.

Childhood and adolescence

Ruf?n?s father was strict and at times violently abusivs.[4] Ruf?n's mother died ten months after his birth in 1941; and his
father married Earline, a schoolteacher, in 1942.[5] As a young child, Ruf?n, along with his other siblings (older brothers
Quincy and Jimmy, and sister Rita Mae). traveled with their father and their stepmother as a family gospel group, opening
shows for Mahalia Jackson and The Five Blind Boys of Mississippi, among othersl?m?] Rufiin sang in the choir at Mount
Salem MethodistChurch, talent shows and wherever else he could.[5] In 1955left home under

the guardianship of a minister. Eddie Bush. and went to Memphis, Tennessee. with the purpose of pursuing the ministry.[4]

At 15, Ruf?n went to Hot Springs, Arkansas. with the Jazz musician Phineas Newborn. Sr. There, they played at the Fifty
Grand Ballroom and Casino. Billed as Little David Bush. Ruffin continued to sing at talent shows, worked with horses at a
Jockey club and eventually became a member of The Dixie Nightingales. He also sang with The Soul Stirrers brie?y after the

departure of Johnnie Taylor.[4] it was in Ruft?in?s travels as a teenager that he met such later popular personalities as Elvis
Presley, Little Richard, Frankie Lymon, Bobby Womack, The Staple Singers, Swan Silvertones and The Dixie Hummingbirds.


After some of his singing idols such as Sam Cooke and Jackie Wilson had left gospel music and gone secular, Ruf?n also
turned in that direction. The 16-year-old Ruf?n met and came under the guardianship of Eddie Bush and his wife Dorothy
Helen. who took the teenager to Detroit. Michigan, where his brother Jimmy was pursuing a career in music while
simultaneously working at the Ford Motor Company.

Career

Early years

After moving to Detroit with the Bushes. Ruf?n recorded his ?rst released record with the songs "You and (1958) 
"Believe Me" (1958). These songs were recorded at Vega Records and released under the name "Little David Bush?. using
the last name of his guardian. Ruf?n would later recall how he initially recorded "a different kind of music", strongly in?uenced

by the smoother pop and of the time. when he ?rst recorded in Detroit for Vega. 

In 1957, Ruf?n met Berry Gordy Jr., then a songwriter with ambitions of running his own label.[4] Ruffin lived with Gordy's
father, a contractor. and helped "Pops? Gordy do construction work on the building that would become Hitsvilie USA. the

headquarters for Gordy's Tamla Records (later Motown Records) Ruffin's brother Jimmy would eventually be signed
to Tamla's Miracle Records label as an artist.

Ruffin also worked alongside another ambitious singer. Marvin Gaye, as an apprentice at Anna Records, a Chess-distributed
label run by Gordy?s sister Gwen Gordy Fuquaand his songwriting partner Billy Davis.?1m

Asked about Ruf?n in the Detroit Free Press in 1988. Gordy Fuqua said: "He was very much a gentleman, yes ma'am and no
ma'am, but the thing that really impressed me about David was that he was one of the only artists I?ve seen who rehearsed

like he was on According to Ru?in, both he and Gaye would pack records for Anna needed]

Ruf?n created music as both the vocalist and drummer in the Voice Masters. a doo-wop style combols] and eventually started
recording at Anna Records, and recorded the song ?I'm in Love" "One of These Days? (1961). with the Voice Masters, a
group which included future Motown producer. Lamont Dozier. Other group members included members of The Originals: Ty
Hunter. CP Spencer. Hank Dixon and (Voice Masters and The Originals founder) Walter Gaines. (At one time, The Voice
Masters also included another future Temptations member. Melvin Franklin, one of numerous people David would claim as a

Ru?in did sign to Anna Records as a solo artist, but his work in that time was unsuccessful.[B]



Ruffin eventually met an up?and-comlng local group by the name of The Temptatiens. His older brother Jimmy went on
a Motortown Revue tour with the Temptations. and he told David that they needed someone to sing tenor in their group. David
showed interest in Joining the group to Otis whom he lived very close to in Detroit.

in January 1964. Ruffin became a member of the Temptations alter founding member Elbridge "Al" Bryant was ?red from the
group. Ruf?n?s ?rst recording session with the group was January 9. 1964. Though both David and Jimmy were considered.
David was given the edge. thanks to his performance skills. These were displayed when he Joined the Temptations on stage

during the label's New Year's Eve party in 1963191

With the Temptations (1964-1968)

Main article: The Temptations

Alter Joining the Temptations. the bespectacled Ruf?n initially sang backgrounds while the role of lead singer mostly alternated
between Eddie Kendricks and Paul Williams. He did sing a few lead parts. both on stage and in the studio. during his ?rst year
with the group. but his leads on these studio tracks would not be released for over a year. as they were not considered good
enough to showcase his vocals. However. Smokey Robinson. who produced and lee-wrote most of the Temptations' material
at this point. saw Ruf?n during this period as a "sleeping giant" in the group with a unique voice that was "mellow?I yet "gruff."

[10] Robinson thought that if he could write just the 'perfect song' for Ruf?n's voice. then he could have a smash hit.[10] The

song was to be something that Ruf?n could "belt out? yet something that was also ?melodic and When Robinson
achieved his goal. the song. "My Girl". was recorded in November 1964 and released a month later. It became the group's
?rst number-one single in 1965. "My Girl" subsequently became the Temptations' signature song. and elevated Ruf?n to the
role of lead singer and frontman.

The follow-ups to ?My Girl" were also extremely successful singles. and included the Ruf?n-led hits "It's Growing'I (1965),
"Since I Lost My Baby? (1965). "My Baby? (1965). I"Ain't Too Proud to Beg? (1966). "Beauty Is Only Skin Deep? (1966). 
Know) l'm Losing You? (1966). "All i Need? (1967). "(Loneliness Made Me Realize) it's You That I Need" (1967). Wish It
Would Rain" (1967). and Could Never Love Another (After Loving You)? (1968). Ruf?n also shared lead vocals on the 1967
hit single "You're My Everything? with Eddie Kendricks. The tall, Ruf?n's passionate and dramatic performances
endeared him to the Temptations' audiences and fans. According to Otis Williams. Ruf?n (playfully nicknamed ?Ruff" by the
group) was a natural comedian and a hard?working singer when he ?rst joined the group.

Ruf?n's most notable non-vocal contribution to the Temptations was the masterminding of their trademark four-headed

microphone stand.[11] This enabled the other members to sing and do their dances without having to crowd around one
microphone while the lead singer would sing into a separate microphone.

 

David Ruf?n (center) with the Temptations
1967.

14][15]

In June 1968. the Temptations agreed that Rufiin had ?nally crossed the line when he missed a June 22 Cleveland. Ohio.
date with the Temptations in order to attend a performance by his new girlfriend. Barbara Gail Martin (Dean Martin's

was ?red on June 27. and replaced with Dennis Edwards. a former member of The Contours, who had

been a friend of Ruf?n and the group as a whole beforehandl1 ?51 Though Ruffin himself personally encouraged Edwards to
take his place. Ruf?n began turning up unannounced at Temptations concerts during Edwards' ?rst few dates with the group.

[15] When the group started to perform a Ruf?n-era song such as ?My Girl" or I'Ain't Too Proud to Beg", Ruffin would suddenly
walk on to the stage. take the microphone from Edwards' hands. and steal the show. embarrassing the group but entertaining

the fans.[16] According to Edwards. the adulation and Ruf?n's pleas convinced the other four Temptations to give Ruf?n a

second chance. but when he arrived late to what was to be his return show with the group in Gaithersburg. Maryland. The
Temptations decided to keep Edwards and drop considerations of rehiring a]

In October 1968, Ruf?n ?led suit against Motown Records. seeking a release from the label and an accounting of his money.

[14] Motown counter-sued to keep the singer from leaving the label and eventually the case was settled.[14] The settlement
required Ruf?n to remain with Motown to ?nish out his initial contract (Ruf?n joined Motown as a solo artist and always had a

separate contract from the other Temptations. which some felt caused a lot of the in-?ghting within the 

Solo years and personal issues

new 
Rh "i?u'tmh

Ut't'rlsi I mini

nun-n.


  
  


The album cover of
Ruffin's solo debut LP
released in 1969

Ru?in's ?rst solo single was a song originally intended for the Temptations, ?My Whole World Ended (The Moment Yen Left
The single (from the album also entitled My Whole World Ended) was released in 1969. and reached the US Pop and
Top Ten. This was followed by the album Feelin' Good. A third album, titled David. was recorded in 1970?71. but was

shelved by Motown and did not see commercial release until 2004. His next of?cial release for Motown did not arrive until
1973 when David Ru?ln was released.

His ?nal Top Ten hit was 1975?s ?Walk Away from Love". produced by Van McCoy. which reached number nine on the Pop
Charts. It was also Ruf?n's only entry into the UK Charts (as a solo artist), and was a hit there as well, making it into the Top
Ten (peaking at #10) in early 1976. The single sold over one million copies. and was awarded a gold disc by the I.A.A. in

February 1976.[19]

Other notable recordings from Ruf?n's solo career include ?i Lost Everything I've Ever Loved" (1969); the gospel-in?ected ?I'm
So Glad I Fell For You" (1970): ?Blood Donors Needed (Give All You Can)? (1973): "Common Man? (1973) (which

was sampled on the 2001 Jay-Z song "Never Change"); "No Matter Where" (1974); "Who Am? (1975); ?Statue of a Fool"
(1975); and cover versions of the Jackson Five's "l Want You Back", ?Rainy Night in Georgia? (popularized by Brook Benton) -
both recorded for the shelved 1970 album: and Harold Melvin and the Blue Notes' "l Miss You" (1973), featuring Eddie
Kendricks (later Kendrick).

fees:
.. a . good

?if

-

The album cover of his follow-up
LP

In 1970 Ruf?n recorded an album with his brother Jimmy. Am My BrothEr's Keeper. for which they had minor hits with "When
My Love Hand (Comes Tumbling Down)" and "Your Love Was Worth Waiting For?.

While his solo career initially showed promise, Ruf?n went into decline, reportedly in part because of his cocaine addiction
and the lack of support from Motown.



After leaving Motown in 1977, Ruf?n recorded for Warner Bros. Records, releasing the albums 80 Soon We Change (1979)
and Gentleman Ruf?n (1980). He later signed with RCA Records, accompanied by former Temptations colleague Eddie
Kendricks. who chose to rekindle their friendship when Kendricks himself started experiencing problems with the Temptations.

In 1982, Ruflin and Eddie Kendricks re-Joined the Temptations for the recording of their album Reunion and a tour to promote
the album. The album included the hit "Standing on the Top? with Rick James. The reunion tour was short lived.
however. as Ruflin started to miss shows as a result of his cocaine addiction. leading the group to be ?ned thousands of
dollars. Otis Williams ?red Ruflin from the group for the second and ?nal time (along with Kendricks, whose voice was

weakened due to heavy smoking) by Christmas 1982.90]
Ruflin started touring with Kendricks (who dropped the from his last name at this time) as a duo act in 1985.

In 1985, longtime Temptations fans Hall a. Oates teamed up with Ruf?n and Kendrick to perform at the re-opening of

the Apollo Theater in New York. Their performance was released as a successful live album and single. The four singers also
sang a medley of Temptations hits at Live Aid on July 13. 1985. John Oates later wrote a minor hit single for Ruf?n and
Kendrick. but the two duos fell out. allegedly due to Daryl Hall?s objections to Ruflin's heavy drug use. After being inducted in
1989 into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (along with the other Temptations) Ruf?n, Kendrick and Dennis Edwards began
touring and recording as "Ruf?nIKendricklEdwards: Former Leads of The Temptations?. On August 17. 2013, in Cleveland,
Ohio, The Official Music Hall of Fame inducted David Ruf?n as a solo artist and memberof The Temptations. His family
was in attendance at the ceremony.

Personal life

Ruf?n was married twice. His ?rst marriage was to Sandra Barnes in 1961, with whom he had three daughters. Cheryl, Nedra

and He also had one son with his long-ten'n girlfriend, Genna Sapia. whom he met in 1964.[23] Genna said that
since she didn't know whether David was coming or going (because of the well-publicized affair with Motown colleague
[and Marvin Gaye duet partner] Tammi Terrell). she named the baby David E. Sapia. Later. David changed his son's name to

David Eli Ruf?n, Jr. The three lived together for years, but she and David never In 1976?two years after he
and Genna split for good?Ruf?n married Joy Hamilton. After his death, Sapia would add "Ruf?n' to her last name in tribute to

their relationship, and for continuity with David 

Ruf?n is buried at Woodlawn Cemetery (Detroit, Michigan). in Section 3. Lot 243, Grave 

Legacy

Ruflin had many admirers among his fellow artists. especially for the emotive power he brought to every song he sang.
?Nobody could sing like David Ruf?n". said his close friend and colleague Martha Reeves (of Martha and the Vandellas fame).

[29] His contemporary. label-mate, and long-time acquaintance Marvin Gaye was particularly impressed with the virility of
Ruf?n's voice. Gaye said Ruffin's work "made me remember that when a lot of women listen to music, they want to feel the

power of a real 

Daryl Hall of Hall Oates. one of Ruflin's biggest fans. said, "His voice had a certain glorious anguish that spoke to people on
many emotional Ruf?n himself said. don't know what kind of voice I have. I really just about the feeling I
get for the 

The raspy-voiced Rod Stewart fell in love with Ruf?n's voice after he heard Wish It Would Rain". ?ltjumped out of the
speakers and ravished my soul". Stewart exclaimed.[20] Stewart would later become friends with Ruf?n. "His voice was so 
powerful like a foghom on the Queen Mary'. Stewart told Rolling Stone magazine in 2005.[20]

The cover-art of Ruf?n's last album Gentleman Ru?in was the inspiration for the art of rapper Wiz Khalifa's mixtape Kush and
Orange Juice.[5]

David Ruf?n was inducted into the inaugural class of the Of?cial Blues Music Hall of Fame at Cleveland State
University.

in popular culture[edit]

in 1996, NBC aired The Temptations, a four-hour television mini-series about the group?s career, Ruf?n was portrayed
by Leon Robinson (who is usually credited as simply "Leon" as his professional name). The actor won high praise for his
performance, although Ruf?n?s family was quite upset by the way the series portrayed him, and ?led a lawsuit against the

series' producers and Otis Williams. whose memoir had been the source materiallaoum] The case was dismissed in favor of
the defendants, with Williams later claiming that he had no real control over the presentation of the material.

Grand Puba of Brand Nubian referenced the singer on the 1990 single ?All for One". stating: hit a beat and swing a note as
if my name was David Ruf?n".

Rapper Machine Gun Kelly also referenced the singer on his 2013 song "See My Tears" stating:"Fought every temptation shit.
i guess i'm David Ruf?n huh"?

The first song on Fall Out Boy?s 2005 CD From Under the Cork Tree was to have been titled "My Name is David 
These are The Temptations", but for legal reasons the name was changed to ?Our Lawyer Made Us Change the Name of This
Song So We Wouldn't Get Sued?.

used Ruf?n's song and referred his name on their hip-hop single "Lookin' Boy".

American rap rock group Class Heroes references Ruf?n in the 2008 song "Like Father, Like Son (Papa's Song)? from
their album The Quilt stating: ?i never understood temptation. But I guess we got a little David Ruf?n in us".

In the British documentary ?lm The Fear of 13, Common Man is sung.

Solo discography

Main article: David Ru?in discography
Studio albums

1969: My Whole World Ended

1969: Feelin' Good

1970: I Am My Brother?s Keeper (The Ruf?n Brothers: David 8. Jimmy Ruf?n)
1971: David (unissued until 2004)

1973: David Ruf?n

1974: Me Rock Roll Are Here To Stay

1975: Who lAm

1976: Even/thing's Coming Up Love

1977: In My Stride

1979: 30 Soon We Change

1980: Gentleman Ru?in

1968: Flu?in Kendrick (Rut?n 8: Kendrick: David Ru?in and Eddie Kendrick)

.. 

100 Greatest Singers of All Time

Aretha, Elvis, Lennon, Ian and man more

       

There's somethino a bout a voice that?s personal. not unlike the particular odor or shape of a
gigen human bodv. Summoned throuoh bellv. hammered into form bv the throat. diven
propulsion bv bellows of funds. teased into final form bv toncue and lips. a vocal is a kind of
audible kiss. a blurted confession. a soul-burp vou reallv can?t keep from issuino as vou make
your wav throuch the material world. How helplesslv candid! How appallinq!

Contrarv to anvthino vou've heard. the abilitv to actuallv carrv a tune is in no reqard a disabilitv
in becominp a rock roll sinner. onlv a mild disadvantaoe. Converselv. nothino in the vocal
limitations of a Lou Fieed ouarantees a ?Pale Blue Eves" everv time out. anv more than sinqind
as crazv-clumsv as Tom Waits ouarantees a ?Downtown Train.? Yet there?s a certain time-
tested sturdiness to the Iowchops approach forced bv touchstone fidures like Bob Dvlan and
Jim Morrison and Jonathan Flichman. one that helps define rock a roll sincino.

For me. Bob Dvlan and Patti Smith. iust to mention two. are superb sinners bv anv measure I
could ever care about expressivitv. surprise. soul, drain. interpretive wit. andle of vision.
Those two folks. a handful of others: their soul-burns are. for me. the soul-bums of the pods.
The beautv of the sincer?s voice touches us in a place that?s as personal as the place from
which that voice has issued. If one of the weird thinos about sinners is the ecstasv of surrender
thev inspire. another weird thinq is the debunkino response a sinner can arouse once we've
recovered our senses. It's as if thev?ve fooled us into lovinc them. diddled our hard-wirino.
located a vulnerabilitv we thouoht we'd lono ado armored over. Fallino in love with a sinner is
like beino a teenader everv time it happens.



This is an exce tfrom Jonathan Lethern's introduction to the Greatest Sin ers of All Time
feature in the November 27 2008 issue of Rollin Stone. A anel of 179 ex erts ranked the
vocalists.

 

 

 

 

Petard Collection/Redferns



David Ruffin

Born
Januarv18th. 1941 (died June lst. 1991)

Key Tracks
"Ain't Too Proud to Beo," "Mv Girl." "Walk Awav From Love"

Influenced
Hall and Oates. Michael Jackson, Flod Stweart

Motown founder Berrv Gordv said that any of the five Temptations could have been a
lead sinoer. but it was David Ruffin who stood out most from the pack. In contrast to his
heavenlv-voiced partner, Eddie Kendricks. Fluf?n sano as if everv word was a plea 
pain and desperation filled his lead vocals on "Ain't Too Proud to Ben." Know) I'm
Lgsillg?nu" and Wish It Would Flain." "His voice had a certain qlorious anguish that
spoke to people on manv emotional levels." savs  _D_arv  Hall, who brieflv recorded and
performed with Fluftin in the Eiohties. heard in [his voice] a strenquv own voice
lacked," said Marvin Gave. who added that Flutiin's work "made me remember that
when a lot of women listen to music. they want to feel the power of a real man."



_a

David Fluffin - Songs
ABOUT

David Fluffin (January 16, 1941 - June 1. 1991) was a highly acclaimed Fi&B/soul singer and one of
Motown's all-time top stars who first became famous during the mid 19605 as the lead singer for The
Temptations. Known for his distinctive gritty tenor vocals and emotive delivery as well as his flamboyant
onstage presence, he took the lead in such era-defining classics as "My Girl." He then continued on as a
solo artist beginning in 1969 with "My Whole World Ended (The Moment You Left 

Born Davis Eli Ruffin in Whynot, Mississippi (he later had his first name changed to David), he began his
music career as a child singing in his family's gospel group along with his siblings that included older
brother and future soul sensation, Jimmy Ruffin. He left home in his early teens and went to Memphis.
Tennessee. originally intending to join the ministry, where he participated in local talent shows and sang
with The Dixie Nightingales and other gospel groups. In 1956, while still in his teens, he landed his first
record deal with Vega Records, recording under the name, Little David Bush. During the early 19605, he
recorded several singles for Check Mate and the Motown subsidiary, Anna Records, both solo and with
The Voice Masters.

A major career turning point came for Fiufiin in late 1963 when he was invited to join The Temptations.
First serving as a background vocalist, he took the helm in 1965 with the Smokey Robinson-penned "My
Girl," which topped both the Pop/Rock and charts and launched The Temptations to international
superstardom. This smash was followed by a long string of hits featuring Fluffin's trademark lead vocals
that also included "Ain't Too Proud To Beg" (1966), "Beauty is Only Skin Deep" (1966), Know) I?m
Losing You" (1966), and the anguished Wish It Would Ftain" (1966). As The Temptations' fame
continued to soar during the late 19605, Fiuffin's association with the group came to an end in 1966 due to
disagreements as well as his increasing cocaine abuse.

Ftuffin officially had his first charting solo song in 1962 with the little known "Mr. Bus Driver - Hurry," the B-
side of a single he had recorded with Check Mate which became a minor hit on the Ftecord World (Music
Vendor) charts. His solo career began in earnest in 1969 with the lovelorn ballad, "My Whole World
Ended (The Moment You Left a Top 10 hit PoplFtock hit that was followed later that year by "I've
Lost Everything I've Ever Loved" and "I'm So Glad I Fell For You." In 1970. Fluffin paired up with brother
Jimmy to record an album titled Am My Brother's Keeper" which included their Top 40 cover of
Ben E. King's "Stand By Me." Ruffin had another Top 10 Popthock hit 1975 with "Walk Away From Love,"
which topped the charts and later went gold. His string of hits, which continued through 1965 on
both the Pop/Flock and charts, also included 'Heavy Love" (1976), "Everything's Coming Up Love"
(1976), "Break My Heart" (1979), and Nite At The Apollo Live! The Way You Do The Things You
Do/My Girl" (1965), the latter credited to Daryl Hall John Oates with David Fiuffin Eddie Kendrick. He
later had two additional hits with Eddie Kendrick: Couldn't Believe It" (1967) and "One More For
The Lonely Hearts Club" (1966).

Ruffin was inducted into the Ftock and Floll Hall of Fame in 1969 along with The Temptations. His other
awards and accolades also included being inducted into the Music Hall of Fame in 2013 and being
named one of the 100 Greatest Singers of All Time by Rolling Stone in 2006.

RELATED BANDS AND ARTISTS

I Jimmy Ftuffin
. The Temptations





LINKS

- In a 1988 interview with the Washington Post, Motown hit maker Smokey Robinson reveals that
he wrote "My Girl" to showcase Fiu?in's unique vocals.
. Temptations co-iounder Otis Williams remembers David Flutfin in a 2016 interview with freelance

writer Malcolm Wyatt.
. David Ruttin and Eddie Kendricks discuss their later work with Hall Oates and other topics in

an interview with soulandfunkmusiccom.

MERCHANDISE

0 David Flutfin Recordings (CDsi etc}
. David Ftutftn MPSS

- David Ruffln Vinyl

FEATURED RECORDINGS

"Him-I

I 



 

Qtitp of metruit
CITY COUNCIL

HISTORIC DESIGNATION ADVISORY BOARD
218 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313. 224.3487 Fax: 3 l3. 224.4336
e-mail: historic@detroitmi.gov

March 11,2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Petition #700: Secondary Street Sign for Reverend Edward L. McCoy

The family of the late Reverend Edward Leon. McCoy Sr., and the members of New Harmony
Missionary Baptist Church Ladies Auxiliary submitted a petition requesting that the intersection of Mt
Elliott and Hendricks be assigned the secondary street name the Rev. Edward L. McCoy, Sr. Street in
celebration of his contributions in the ?eld of music, a community leader and as a minister to the city of
Detroit. A professional musician, Rev. McCoy owned and operated McCoy Recording Company. Under
the his record labels Big Mack Records and Brighter Day Records, Rev. McCoy wrote, produced and
recorded numerous albums and managed many artists. In 1988, Rev. McCoy was installed as pastor of
New Harmony Missionary Baptist Church and served in that capacity for twenty-six years.

Upon review of the documentation submitted by the petitioner staff has concluded that the petition does

meet the criteria for Secondary Naming of Street in accordance with Article VII SectionsSO-7-31 through
Sections 50-7?50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code.

Criteria

As stated in Chapter 50 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places.
Article VII, Opening. closing, Extending. Widening, Vacating, Naming and Renaming of Streets and
Assigning Secondaiy Names to Streets. A secondary street name designation may be sought to recognize
a person who achieved prominence as a result of his or her signi?cant, position, contributions to the City
of Detroit, State of Michigan, the United States of America, or the international community.

1. Sites, buildings, structures where cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political, architectural

history of the community, city, state or nation is particularly reflected or exempli?ed.
2. Sites, buildings, structures, which are identi?ed with historic personages or with important
events in the community, city, state or national history.

Attached for you review and consideration is a resolution setting the required public hearing as well as a
resolution which will authorize the establishment of a Secondary Street Name in honor of Reverend

Earnest 0. King Sr. upon the conclusion of a favorable public hearing, which must be held in accordance
with Section 50-7-35 of the Detroit City Code.

Wm saw 610?. X3313 MU

Staff is available to answer any questions you may have.

Res ctfully submitted,

 

nese Chapman, . - . I treetor, Historic Designation Advisory Board

Attachments

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

Resolved, That a public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Council Flaming and
Economic Development Standing Committee in the Committee of the Whole Room, 13?1
Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center on Thursday, 2019
at for the purpose of considering the petition of the New Harmony
Missionary Baptist Church Ladies Auxiliary requesting the secondary street name in
honor of the late Reverend Edward Leon McCoy, Sr. in the area of Mt. Elliot Street and
Hendricks Avenue to ?Reverend Edward L. McCoy, Sr."

 

BACKGROUND

Rev. McCoy was born and raised in the City of Detroit. He was a stand-out football
player in high school as well as at Morehouse College, where he majored in Math. He
served his country in the US Army National Guard, and returned home to work as a
local musician and businessman. He Operated a recording studio under the label Big
Mack Records, and his recordings have been sought after by international production
companies Eccentric Soul?Numero Group). Following the 1967 civil unrest and
riots in Detroit, Rev. McCoy was appointed by then Mayor Jerome P. Cavanaugh to a
committee to help restore and rebuild the neighborhoods.

From the age of 14 and throughout his adult hood, he served as a minister of music in
local Detroit churches, including Pilgrim's Baptist Church, Gospel Temple Baptist
Church, West Side Central Baptist Church, True Love Baptist Church, Pine Grove
Baptist Church, New Harmony, and others. Finally, in 1987 he answered the call to
serve as a pastor at New Harmony Baptist Church, where he remained for 28 years.
Along the way, he was married for 54 years to his wife, with whom they raised three
children and numerous grandchildren. As testament to their father?s commitment to
service, two of his children dedicated their lives as police of?cers for the City of Detroit,
and another serving as a risk management specialist in educational systems for
children.

SERVICE AS PASTOR

As pastor of New Harmony Baptist Church, Reverend McCoy made it his mission to be
a mentor for his congregation, especially to the youth. He established the children's
?Young Voices" choir and purchased a bus to pick up neighborhood children and adults
for Sunday, Saturday, and Wednesday services. He initiated a Saturday tutorial
program for children at risk (youth with learning and emotional challenges). Reverend
McCoy also provided tutoring to adults with reading dif?culties.

Recognizing the need for his congregation and the surrounding neighborhood to have a
sense of pride in their community, he over saw the designation of New Harmony as a
Historical District within the City of Detroit. Built in 1904, the church has been serving
the community without interruption, and has been a place of spiritual guidance to the
African American community since the late 1940?s.

His pastoral service included a radio outreach ministry. Reverend McCoy broadcast for
more than 16 years on the former WJLB radio station with the task of ?Reaching out to a
city in need with the word it needs." He read from the Bible, prayed, preached, and
counseled callers to the station, sometimes to those in life threatening situations.

Reverend McCoy had several af?liations. He was an active member and supporter of
the ?McDougal-Hunt" Council Community group, which was non-pro?t group
representing the neighborhood around New Harmony. He was an active member of the
Wolverine State Baptist Convention (Saginaw, Michigan), which serves the various
needs of thousands throughout the State of Michigan. He also was a member of the
National Baptist Convention, USA, whose mission is to serve all people through
teaching, preaching, and healing.

Committed to his role as a mentor, Reverend McCoy confronted stage 4 throat cancer
without relinquishing his pastoral duties. Faced with the possibility of dis?guring surgery
to his face, he never questioned his circumstances, even though he was a non-smoker
and a non-drinker. He expressed his faith in God, and as New Harmony's pastor his
plight was on public display. Following radiation and chemo treatment, he was even
called upon by his doctors at Beaumont Hospital to counsel other cancer patients.
Finally, after the ordeal of his aggressive treatment, Reverend McCoy was declared
cancer free. He took grati?cation that he was able show his congregation that he could
not only encourage them to have faith, but to possibly give them hope as they
confronted their own challenges. In later years, Reverend McCoy continued to preach
right up until his death in 2015.

As a solid citizen, leader, inspiration, and positive role model in the City of Detroit, it is
hoped that Bulage Place be renamed in honor of Reverend Edward L. McCoy.

 r. {Ir .qulf. 1.1-1.1 tutti! 1i.I. In?.
. 

. a 

11.ui

hr. if)!

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 Woopwmo AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 11
CITY or DETROIT (313) 224-13?) 2 0


PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

February 19, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
5907 French, Detroit, MI 48213

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
ST Acquisition Company, L.L.C. a Michigan Limited Liability Company, to purchase
certain City-owned real property at 5907 French (the ?Property?) for the purchase price Five

Thousand and 00/100 Dollars 
ST proposes to utilize the property as a green space between properties that the company already

owns. Currently, the property is within a B4 zoning district (General Business District). 
proposed use of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is

zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to ST Acquisition Company, L.L.C.

Respectfully submitted,

 

Maurice D. Cox
Director

Stephanie Washington, Mayor's Of?ce



CLERK 2019 510R 12 Pr?4'?i 

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 5907 French, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to JST Acquisition Company, L.L.C.
for the purchase price of Five Thousand and 00/ 100 Dollars and be it ?trther

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and other such documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Property to ST consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the following PrOperty Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s PrOperty Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Three Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars (300.00) shall be paid to the DBA from the sale
proceeds, 2) Two Hundred Fifty and 00/ 100 Dollars ($250.00) shall be paid to the real
estate brokerage firm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to Two Hundred
and 00/100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

FRENCH RD 728 ST CLAIR HEIGHTS EUGENE SLOMANS SUB L18 P50 PLATS, 
21/534 30 114.67A

a/k/a 5907 French
Tax Parcel ID 21040260-1

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

LR 

Basil Sarir??, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

 

Qliity at ?etruit

 

CITYCOLWCIL

 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

'10: David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Council President Pro Tempore flield, Chair, Neighborhoods and
Community Services Committee

TI-IRU: Council Member James Tate, Chair, Planning and Economic Development

DATE: March 13, 2019

RE: Request for Right to Counsel Ordinance Update and Funding
Recommendations

 

I am requesting LPD provide an update to the request to draft a Right to Counsel
Ordinance (attached) submitted on September 14, 2018. In addition, I am requesting that
LPD consider the following funding mechanisms amongst others: general funds, the
affordable housing leverage ?md or blight remediation demolition funding to fund the
initiative. I am also requesting that LPD consult with the United Community Housing
Coalition and the National Coalition for a Civil Right to Counsel in order to identify the
appropriate funding level needed for the ordinance.

I am also requesting that the request be removed from the Public Health and Safety
Standing and placed on the Planning and Economic Development Standing Committee?s
calendar.

Cc: Honorable Colleagues
Honorable City Clerk
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison, Mayor?s Of?ce

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


ZZ.

 

QEity of Eetrnit

 



 

MARY SHEFFIELD
COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

TO: David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Council President Pro Tempore Mary Shef?eld, Chair, Neighborhoods and
Community Services Committee

TI-IRU: Scott Benson, Chair, Public Health and Safety Committee

DATE: September 14, 2018

RE: Right to Counsel Ordinance

 

At least half of all tenants ?ghting eviction would not lose their case if they had legal
representation. Additionally, about 97% of cases in housing court are initiated by
landlords, and almost all landlords have representation while the vast majority of tenants
do not. This results in landlords evicting tenants because they have power, not because
the law supports them. Furthermore, landlords sue tenants they shouldn?t because they
can get away with it - telling tenants that the case is a simple issue of paying rent which
denies tenants access to the power of complex and vast housing laws designed to defend
their homes.

Therefore, I am requesting that the Legislative Policy Division draft a Right to Counsel
Ordinance for housing eviction cases. The legislation should utilize ordinances in New
York, Los Angeles and San Francisco as model legislation.

Please contact Brian White at 313-224-4505 if you have any questions.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


