5461?49

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS


WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL a.

Kalimabjolmson, LMS ACSIV, LCSW .




Founder and Director of the SASHA Center

Kalimah Johnson is an innovative community activist and trailblazer in the anti? sexual violence movement A
native of Detroit, she obtained her Bachelor of Social Work in 1996 and a Master of Social Work from ,Wayne
State University in 1997. In addition, she is a member of the Academy of Certi?ed Social Workers, a' licensed
social worker in Michigan and Illinois and past Assistant Professor of Social Work at Marygrove College. Her
teaching interests are sexual assault and the military, social work education/ methods, men stopping violence
against women, violence against women and children, multiculturalism, media images hip hop and social
practice/ justice and community organizing and;

Kalirnah?s experience as a survivor of sexual violence and an undergraduate internship that addressed sexual
assault would de?ne her career trajectory. After receiving her Master?s, she worked with the Rape Counseling
Center from 1996-2005, as a consultant for the Michigan Coalition against Domestic and Sexual Violence and as a
sexual assault therapist for the Detroit Police Department?s victim assistance program. While traveling across the
country training directors of coalitions on how to address forms of domestic and sexual trauma, she noticed
discrepancies regarding the treatment of women based on their background, socio?economic status and their race.
Her work in this ?eld would serve as the catalyst for the creation of an of?cial nonpro?t and;

In 2010, Kalimah founded the Center (Sexual Assault Services for Holistic Healing Awareness) to address
culturally speci?c holistic healing for survivors of sexual and domestic violence. Utilizing best practices to
provide education, resources and support for survivors, SASHA Center accomplishes this goal through such
programming as weekly community support groups, the annual Take Back the Night Detroit and SASHA M.E.N.
(Male Engagement Now) a special eight month series designed to encourage dialogue among men related to
sexual violence. Her unique expertise and emphasis of addressing trauma of the African American community
has led to the creation of the SASHA Model: the Black Women?s Triangulation of Rape. Outside of her work
with SASHA Center, she is a lead consultant for the National Basketball Association, National Basketball Players
Association, the Detroit Lions and h/Iichigan Elite 25 Camp on matters related to player development and
relationship safety and management. In addition, she has been prominently featured on the HBO documentary, I
Am Evidence for her work with the Detroit Rape Kit Project and is the driving force behind the Mute R. Kelly
campaign and;

Kalimah is the recipient of numerous awards clue to her advocacy including the Spirit of Detroit Award, Activist
of the Year from the National Organization of Women, Advocate of the Year from the National Network to End
Domestic Violence. In her spare time, she? was a Poet in Residence at the Detroit Orchestra, a
member of the National Association of Social Workers, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. and owns a natural hair
care studio. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That on this day, February 12, 2019, Council Member James Tate Jr. and the entire Detroit City Council do
hereby acknowledge Kalimah Johnson for your work with the SASHA Center and for your contributions to
improving the quality of life within the City of Detroit. Thank you for your continuous your commitment to
eradicating rape culture in the City of Detroit.

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT

 

 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEM COUNCIL MEMBER

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBER

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBER

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBER

2.

DATE

