5-19?19

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

?49

Alton James of Ectrn It Brenda Goss Andrews
Chairperson CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Lisa Whitmore Davis
Lauren Hood, MCD . . David Esparza, LEED
Vice Chair/Secretary 208 COleman Y9un_g Mun101pal Center Gregory Pawlowski
Detmlt, 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Angy Webb

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

March 15, 2019
HONORABLE PLANNING AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STANDING 

RE: Request of the Downtown Development Authority in conjunction with Olympia Development of
Michigan to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 3 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City
Code, Zoning and the provisions of the existing PD (Flaming Development) zoning district
established by Ordinance 10-15 on land bounded by Woodward Ave. on the east, the south side
of Henry St. on the south, Clifford Ave. and Cass Ave. on the west and Sproat St. on the North;
and to rezone a portion of the remaining B4 (General Commercial) zoned land along the east side
of Cass Ave. between Sproat St. and Henry St., and, as well as the to-be-vacated Henry Street
right-of-way, to PD. (REQUESTING 6th EXTENSION OF REVIEW PERIOD)

On June13, 2017 the Detroit City Council received and referred to the Planning and Economic Development
Standing Committee the report and recommendation of the City Flaming Commission (CPC) for the above
captioned map amendment request for the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

The Zoning Ordinance speci?es in Sec. 61-3-17, ?Where a petition for a proposed Zoning Ordinance text
or map amendment is not voted upon by the City Council within one hundred twenty (120) days of the time
of receipt of the City Planning Commission?s report, it shall be deemed to have been denied, unless
extended by the City Council.?

The original 120-day review period for this matter was to expire in October of 2017. Subsequently,
however, five extensions have been authorized with the most recent, of 120 days, being granted on
November 27, 2018. On Thursday, March 28, 2019 that extension will expire at day?s end.

CPC is pleased to report that the revised petition #1388 requesting the right?of?way adjustments on and
around the arena site is being process by City Engineering. This revised petition, if acceptable to DPD and
DWSD, should relieve the blockage to completing the vacation of Henry and the other streets thus allowing
the necessary sequence of events to proceed in order to facilitate the long-held PD rezoning and
modi?cation. Consequently, the CPC requests another 120-day extension of the review period to avoid
having to re-start the ordinance revision process over again at the Planning Commission. A resolution to
that effect is attached for Your consideration. The requested extension, if granted, will expire by the close
of the day Friday, July 26 2019.

Respectfully submitted,

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director

Attachment

CC:

Maurice Cox, Director, PDD
Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
Kim James, Law

Bruce Goldman, Law

David Bell, Director, BSEED

Arthur emison, Group Executive

A RESOLUTION BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Flaming Commission has prepared a report and recommendation
dated June 12, 2017 regarding the request of the Downtown Development Authority in
conjunction with Olympia Development of Michigan to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 3
of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Zoning and the provisions of the existing PD
(Planning Development) zoning district established by Ordinance 10-15 on land bounded by
Woodward Ave. on the east, the south side of Henry St. on the south, Clifford Ave. and Cass
Ave. on the west and Sproat St. on the North; and to rezone a portion of the remaining B4
(General Commercial) zoned land along the east side of Cass Ave. between Sproat St. and Henry
St., and, as well as the to-be-vacated Henry Street right-of-way, to and

WHEREAS, that report and recommendation were received by the Detroit City Council on June
13, 2017 and referred to the Plaming and Economic Development Standing Committee; and

WHEREAS, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance speci?es in Sec. 61-3-17 that ?Where a petition for a
proposed Zoning Ordinance text or map amendment is not voted upon by the City Council
within one hundred twenty (120) days of the time of receipt of the City Plaming Commission?s
report, it shall be deemed to have been denied, unless extended by resolution of the City
Council;? and

WHEREAS, four 120 day extensions and one 54 day extensions have been granted
subsequently; and

WHEREAS, the most recent 120 day extension of the review period for this Zoning Ordinance
an amendment request will expire on March 28, 2018; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, the Detroit City Council hereby extends the period of review for the City Plaming
Commission report and recommendation regarding the requested Zoning Ordinance amendment
for an additional 120 days, to expire at the close of the day on July 26, 2019.

5'0

Alton James Brenda Goss Andrews
Chairperson It? at Btl?? It . David Esparza, AIA, LEED
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION Alto? James
Lauren Hood, MCD . . . Gregory Pawlowski
208 Coleman A. Young Center .
Vice Chair/Secretary hi 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
etr01t, 1c gan Angy Webb

Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: 

March 15, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request of Shamrock, LLC to approve site plans and elevations for an existing Planned
Development (PD) zoning classi?cation shown on Article XVII, District Map No. 4, of
the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, for the development on residential
property commonly referred to as 30 Alfred Street (INFORMATIONAL REPORT
NO ACTION REQUIRED).

BACKGROUND

In 2000-2002, a development known as Crosswinds and also known as Woodward Place at
Brush Park Town Homes were approved and developed on the site that currently exists just
across from the Little Caesar?s Arena in the Brush Park Historic District. The original plan
spanned from Woodward on the west to Brush Street on the east and from the alley just north of
Adelaide on the north to the Fisher Freeway on the south.

Only a portion of this plan came into a fruition and now exists as the Woodward Place at Brush
Park townhomes which primarily lie between Woodward Avenue, Alfred Street, John R. Street,
and the 1-75 Fisher Freeway.

PROPOSAL

The proposal that is currently before Your Honorable Body is for plans to further ful?ll the
original master plan that was never fully completed due to market conditions and other factors of
that time.

The developer for this project originally explored options for a new design for the townhome
buildings, but eventually decided to keep to the originally approved drawings as the Woodward
Place at Brush Park Condo Association has strongly requested the developer to maintain the
current aesthetic.

The current proposal plans to build in?ll townhomes on Alfred Street between Woodward
Avenue and John R. Street on a property that is currently vacant and exists as grassland. The
project would be for 12 new townhomes in building 13 of the development. The project plans to
replicate the same design of the rest of the townhomes that currently exist. Parking would be
provided for each unit, in a garage that is incorporated on the ground-?oor of the building.



. '1 -

. are: agar?? 


.
.
?13.

.

:3 33. 



1 

 

Original proposed master plan of development

Historic District Criteria

In accordance with Chapter 25 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, the Historic District
Commission (HDC), is tasked with reviewing development proposals to detennine if the project
is consistent with the historic district criteria and maintains the character of the designated area.
HDC staff has communicated that this project has received a Certi?cate of Appropriateness for
its original 2000-2002 design and that the original approval is still in good standing since the
design being proposed remains the same.

PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS
Surrounding Zoning and Land Use

The zoning classi?cation and land uses surrounding the subject area are as follows:
North: PD: Residential home and underutilized parcels

East: PD: Residential home

South: PD: Residential townhomes

West: PD: Residential townhomes

ANALYSIS
This project is generally in conformance with the Brush Park Third Modi?ed Development plan

and is also in conformance with the PD District design criteria of Sec. 61-11-15 of the Zoning
Ordinance.

In regard to criterion which speaks to scale, form, massing, and density and also criterion (0)
which speaks to compatibility; this project seeks to construct the same design of building as what
is existing in the entirety of the Woodward Place at Brush development. While staff originally
desired to see a design that takes into account the pedestrian realm and incorporates more
appropriately scaled stoops and doors and front facade that is lowered. However, the building
will complete the original project and design. The additional building will be compatible with the
existing buildings thus meeting this criterion.

Criterion mandates that Parking and Loading should allow for adequate vehicular off-street
parking facilities. This project will have adequate parking onsite for each unit.

Since this project is generally consistent with the Third Modi?ed Development plan and zoning
provisions for the site, it quali?es for Site Plan Review and does not require a PD modi?cation.

COMMUNITY INPUT

The Brush Park II Condo Association provided a letter to the developer providing support for
this project and also alluding to possible legal action if the developer deviates from the original
design for the buildings. The association is strongly in support that the design remain what the
developer currently plans consistent with originally approved plans for the site.

The Brush Park CDC has submitted a letter supporting the plan being proposed while also
providing commentary.

RECOMMENDATION
On March 7th, the City Flaming Commission, after much debate over appropriateness of the old
design, voted to approve the proposal of Shamrock, LLC with the following conditions:

1. That the developer work with the immediately adjacent community to minimize disruption to
the neighborhood during construction and address impacts that may arise; and

2. That ?nal site plans, elevations, lighting, landscape and signage plans be submitted by the
developer to the staff of the City Planning Commission for review and approval prior to
submitting applications for applicable permits.

This is an informational report of an action taken by CPC consistent with the original PD
approval of this project. No further action is required by Your Honorable Body.

Respectfully submitted,

31hr? 

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Kimani Jeffrey, City Planner

 

Err/r94 ?Park

234 Winder Street 0 Detroit, MI 48201 - . 

 

January 30, 2019

Shamrock Acquisitions, LLC
13910 Simone Drive

Shelby Township, MI 48315
Matthew Duf?eld


Re: Brush Park CDC Response for Brush Park II - Building 13 (Alfred/Woodward)

Brush Park Community Development Corporation (the forwards this letter to indicate our support
for the Brush Park ll - Building 13 (the "Project?).

The Project was presented before the CDC and the Brush Park community at a public meeting held on
Tuesday, January 15, 2019. Feedback from the community was mixed. Many residents expressed
disappointment that a more modern design was not chosen for this project site. Residents also
expressed concerns about the cheap materials that were used by Crosswinds, as evidenced by the
current state of disrepair of several of the existing buildings. One member of the community who lives
on Alfred Street stated that he was in favor of the design as it is more sympathetic to existing historic
structures in the neighborhood. Your team explained to the community that the design of the building is
being driven by the Brush Park II Condo Association, who own the rights to develop the project site and
are insisting that the site be ?lled in with a design that mirrors the existing buildings in the condo
association. You also expressed that while the project will look the same as existing structures, the
quality of the materials for Building 13 will be better than those used for the existing structures.

Much consideration was given to the Project by the CDC Board. By a vote of 5 in favor, 2 objections and 1
abstention, the Board voted to support the Project. Please see Attachment A, which contains the
opinions offered by the Board during the voting process for your consideration; please note, the opinions
have no bearing on the Board?s vote and are included for your information only.

We thank you for your commitment to Brush Park and making a positive impact in our community.

Sincerely,

Karissa Holmes, Secretary

Cc: City of Detroit Planning Development

 

Brush Park Community Development Corporation

Attachment A: Poll Comments for "Crosswinds Building 13"

Below are the opinions submitted by CDC Boa rd Members during the voting process for reference and
consideration. Please note, the opinions have no bearing on the Board's ?nal vote and are included for
reference only.

Comment 1
I am not comfortable with the continuity of design that relates to the existing/adjacent properties 
Also, the quality of materials and privacy partitions between units.

Comment 2

This feels like a step backward for Brush Park. The sameness of Crosswinds is already a negative aspect
and it contributes to the feeling that Crosswinds is its own neighborhood rather than part of a larger
neighborhood; adding more of the some would only perpetuate these points. it would be cohesive to
Crosswinds but not to the Brush Park neighborhood which offers variety, quality, and richness. I think the
City and the developer could take the CDC '5 points back to the condo assoc. and find a compromise.

While i do not support this project as presented, the urban form is one acceptable component. However,
one area of concern is the front stair which is such a large mass it feels like it should be considered part
of the building and therefore is rather inconsistent with established setbacks of the existing historic home
on the block to the east as well as the homes across the street.

Comment 3

lsupport the design of this project, echoing the support of the neighbors directly adjacent to this
property, that this design is more in line with historic homes and existing condos completely encircling
this property. commend the developers on their promise to use higher quality materials and standards
than the existing condos utilized at the time of their construction.

Comment 4

it would have been nice to have a letter from the condo association supporting the project and the
design. But if what the developer says is true-- that the association will not allow variation in design from
what was originally intended-- i do not think the CDC should interfere by suggesting a newer, fresher
design. Sounds like an expensive legal rabbit 

Comment 4

For cohesiveness of the Woodward Place development, I support continuing the same design. i am glad
that the developer will use better materials to avoid the interior and exterior quality issues that are
plaguing the current buildings and units.

?my

It .Ilupll-IE'

Hull.\.

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 



 

llra-



lr-l'

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

If?
A. 
11imam a E.
H)

urn?4-

MMLW

as
Elu- 5-mo-

gm 01A

Ii. ?Elihu
?Iii


- ml

i.

I
Elli


all

J.

. .5 II
WEE..-
EEC.

 

 

 

H. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i
Ema?.45..?



 


.EggdiatsanDa

a 1.6m ?95 1.5m uu 5.0 SE33

n?ui?ga??amu??uga I

i

alumna Ems-326E

.- luticI-I

L. 13 3.1.3.

ErqriunEn-ri Ell 

 

 

 

 

IE LEVEL UNIJT

 

3'33
3:3 a '3
33323315

 

Woodward Place@ Brush Park
Phase II 9 

January 14, 2019

 

Shamrock Acquisitions, LLC

Attention: Matthew B. Duffield/Principal
13910 Simone Drive

Shelby Township, MI 48315

Dear Mr. Duffield (Matt):

The Board of Directors understands that you are currently in discussions with the City for
approval of building plans. As you know, the Association has an Agreement with
Shamrock Acquisitions, LLC for Shamrock to complete construction of Building 13 within
the Woodward Place at Brush Park 11 Condominium. Under that agreement, Shamrock is
required to construct Building 13 and install landscaping ?in substantial compliance with the
Condominium Documents.? The Association reiterates here its desire to see Building 13
con'ipleted as provided in the recorded Subdivision Plan so that the Condominium as a
whole can be ?nished.

As you are aware, the Master Deed for the Condominium contains speci?c building plans,
previously approved by the relevant government authorities when the Condominium was
formed, all as required by law. The Master Deed itself thus controls what exactly can be
built within the Condominium. We, of course, understand that building codes may have
been updated since the original Subdivision Plans were approved, but otherwise the
Association desires and expects that Building 13 will conform aesthetically with the entirety
of the existing buildings in this Condominium, and as specifically shown in the recorded
Subdivision Plans. To the extent the City demands material changes to the Subdivision
Plans (excepting changes to conform to building code updates), they should be advised
that those plans cannot be changed without the 66.6% approval of all Co-owners in the
Condominium, as any such deviations from the existing building plans would require an
amendment to the Association's Master Deed.

The Board is happy to meet with you and the City and, in coordination with the
Association?s legal counsel, to discuss the Association?s legal and aesthetic expectations.
We certainly do look forward to completion of development and welcoming new neighbors.
Completion of construction has been a long time coming. If 1 or the Board can be of any
assistance in moving the process along, please do not hesitate to ask.

Sincerely.

swam

Gail L. Phillips
President of the Woodward Place at Brush Park 11 Association

Chris Peresky, Vice President
Paul Wilcox, Treasurer
Harriette Moore, Board Member
Ledian Dibra, Board Member

Letter of Support Shamrock Acquisltion, LLC (0144-19)

James Bondy

Subject: RE: Brush Park II response to request to change building 13

Requested Response - Building 13 Update
Good Morning Matt,
After consulting with our attorney, our view of the situation is as follows:

There are two main reasons the Condominium Documents do not allow Shamrock to deviate from the already
existing and recorded site plans. First and foremost is the Agreement between the Association and

Shamrock. Under that Agreement, the term ?Building 13 Units? has a specific definition, which is the
?General Common Element building designated on Replat No. 2 of the Condominium Subdivision Plan
as ?Building 13? . . . together with and containing units 43 through 54, inclusive.? The Agreement at
paragraph 6 says that ?Shamrock shall commence to develop and construct Building 13 and the
Building 13 Units. . . Because ?Building 13? and ?Building 13 Units? are terms defined in the Agreement
with specific reference to Replat No. 2, that is what Shamrock must build?-the building and units as shown in
the recorded Replat N0. 2, nothing else. If Shamrock tried to amend the Master Deed and record an updated
site plan, that would be Replat No. 3, and that would not be what the Association and Shamrock agreed would
be built. Moreover, it is clear from our negotiations that the parties intended that what gets built is what was
originally planned. Though we are happy to work with Shamrock, we do have to say that if Shamrock were to
attempt to deviate from the recorded site plans, the Association would view that as a breach of contract and
would likely sue. Of course, we do not expect that to happen and do not want to fight at all, but if people are
asking Shamrock why it cannot modify its site plans, a simple answer is that there is a binding contract in place
to build the building and units shown on the recorded site plan, and any deviation from that would likely lead to
a lawsuit.

Aside from the Agreement, however, Shamrock was not assigned the ?Developer" rights by the original
developer as provided by Master Deed, Article X11, and thus Shamrock is not the ?Developer? as that term is
used in the Master Deed. While Shamrock is a ?successor developer? under the Condominium Act, nothing in
the act says that a person who becomes a successor developer also succeeds to the developer?s retained rights
under a master deed. Simply put, there is only one business that has the ?Developer? rights under the Master
Deed, and that is Charter Oak Homes, Inc., the original developer. Being a mere successor in title to developer
units is not enough because if that were true, then anyone who bought a unit from the Developer at any time
would also be the Developer, which is absurd. In short, without a recorded assignment of developer rights from
Charter Oak Homes to Shamrock, Shamrock is not the Developer under the Master Deed. But even if
Shamrock were properly assigned Developer rights, it also agreed, in the Agreement, to build Building 13 and
its Units as shown on the recorded Replat o. 2, so it would have waived its ability to deviate from the building
plans shown on Replat No. 2.

On behalf of the Board of Phase II of Woodward Place Brush Park we hopes this helps and allows you to
proceed forward.

Regards
Gail

Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

 

March 14, 2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Harmonie Social Club Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Dear Honorable Council Members:

The enclosed Brownfield Plan for the Harmonie Social Club Redevelopment Project (the "Plan") (Exhibit
A), was submitted by the Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority Board (the to the Community
Advisory Committee (the The Plan was considered and reviewed by the CAC at its February 27,
2019 meeting and a public hearing was held by the DBRA on March 7, 2019 to solicit public comments.
The Committee?s communication to the City Council and the DBRA, dated February 27, 2019 (Exhibit B),
recommending approval of the Plan, including the minutes of the public hearing held by the DBRA, are
enclosed for the City Council's consideration.

On March 13, 2019, the DBRA adopted a resolution (Exhibit C) approving the Plan and authorizing the
submission of a copy of its resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the Detroit
City Council call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions to approve the Plan in
accordance with Act 381.

The Plan is now presented to the City Council for approval. The Detroit City Council will, after publication
of the notices, hold a public hearing on the Plan. After the public hearing, the City Council shall determine
whether the Plan constitutes a public purpose and, if so, may approve or reject the Plan or approve it with
modifications.

Project Introduction
311 Grand River, LLC, an affiliate of Basco of Michigan, Inc., is the project developer (the "Developer") for

the Plan which entails the renovation of an existing historic structure to include updated tenant spaces, a
speakeasy bar and dining room at the basement level and a bright restaurant and lounge on the main level.
The existing restaurant tenant, Colors, will remain and will be assisted by the developer to improve their
tenant space during construction activities. The second level will include office and co-working space, with
private rooms for conferences and meetings. The third level will restore the main assembly space and
stage, with a side lounge and bar, while the mezzanine will be restored, the property will also include two
bridal suites and additional event storage space. It is estimated that 34 temporary construction jobs and
one FTE job will be created as a result of the project.

The total investment is estimated to be $12.6 million. The Developer is requesting $579,210.00 in TIF
reimbursement.

Honorable City Council
March 14, 2019
2

Propertv Subieot to the Plan

The eligible property (the ?Property") consists of one (1) parcel located at 311 East Grand River on the
eastern side of Detroit's Central Business District in the Paradise Valley neighborhood, bounded by Centre
Street to the south, the property line to the west, the alley between John Street and Grand River Avenue
to the north, and Grand River Avenue to the east.

Basis of Eligibility

The Property is considered ?eligible property" as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because the Property
was previously utilized or is currently utilized for a commercial purpose; it is located within the City of
Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and the Property is determined to be a historic
resource as defined by Act 381, as amended. The property was listed as a Michigan Historic Site in 1975
and was individually listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1980. In addition, the property is
listed in Detroit?s local Madison-Harmonie Historic District.

Eligible Activities and Proiected Costs

The "eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered ?eligible activities"
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include pre-approved activities, demolition and asbestos
abatement, infrastructure improvements, site preparation, development/preparation and implementation of
brownfield plan and/or 381 work plan, and a 15% contingency. The eligible activities and budgeted costs
are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed solely by the Developer. The
Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt. The eligible activities
are estimated to commence in summer of 2019 and be completed within 9 months.

Tax Increment Financing Capture

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.

COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Environmental Assessments $7,600.00
2. Demolition $149,000.00
3. Asbestos Activities $50,000.00
4. Infrastructure Improvements $75,000.00
5. Site Preparation $201,313.00
6. Brownfield Plan Act 381 Work Plan $25,000.00
7. Contingency $71,297.00
*Total Reimbursement to Developer $579,210.00

8. Authority Administrative Costs $24,267.00
9. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund $82,856.00
10. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund $55,643.00
TOTAL Estimated Costs $741,975.00

 

 

 

 

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.

Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Act (OPRA) Tax Abatement and Historic Tax Credits.

Request
The DBRA is respectfully requesting the following actions from the City Council:

Honorable City Council
March 14, 2019
3

March 19, 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D), setting the Harmonie Social Club Brown?eld
Redevelopment Plan public hearing, as approved by the Planning and Economic Development
Standing Committee Chair and the City of Detroit Clerk, for April 11, 2019 at 10:10 AM in the
Council Chambers, 13th Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, located at 2
Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan.

April 11, 2019, 10:05 AM
Discussion with taxing jurisdictions regarding the fiscal impact of the Plan.

0.) April 11. 2019. 10:10 AM
Public Hearing at City Council's Planning and Economic Development Standing Committee
concerning the Harmonie Social Club Brownfield Redevelopment Plan.

April 16, 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution approving the Harmonie Social Club Brownfield

Redevelopment Plan (Exhibit E).

incerely
(MK: 14/34 ?g

Jennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

 
   
 

City Clerk
Marcel Todd
Irvin Corley, Jr.
David Whitaker
Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt
DeAndree Watson
Kevin Johnson
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls
Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington

And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council packet cover letters\2019 Cover Letters\Harmonie
Social Club Brown?eld Plan CC Transmittal Letter.docx

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

BROWNFIELD PLAN FOR THE
HARMONIE SOCIAL CLUB
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Prepared by:

311 Grand River, LLC

607 Shelby Street, Suite 400
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Contact Person: Joe Hooker
Phone: (313) 502-5117

PM Environmental, Inc.

4080 West 11 Mile Road

Berkley, Michigan 48072

Contact Person: Jessica DeBone; Phone (616) 328-5297
Contact Person: Elizabeth Masserang; Phone: (248) 414-1441

February 20, 2019

1

II.



CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BROWNFIELD PLAN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

GENERAL PROVISIONS

A.


C.


I.

J.

Description of Eligible Property

. Basis of Eligibility

Summary of Eligible Activities

. Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax

Increment Revenues; Impact of Tax Increment
Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions

Plan of Financing; Maximum Amount
Of Indebtedness

Duration of Plan

Effective Date of Inclusion

Displacement/Relocation of Individuals
On Eligible Property

Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF)

Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund

K. Developer?s Obligations, Representations and Warrants

ATTACHMENTS

A. Site Map

B.

C.

D.

Legal Description(s)
Project Description

Supportive Letters

1?1

11-2

11-3

11?3

11-4

11-5

11-6

11-7

11-7

11-7

11-7

11-8

A-l

B-l

D-l

E. Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities E-l
F. TIF Tables F-l
G. Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents G-l

H. Incentive Chart H-l

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

I. INTRODUCTION

 

In order to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed and blighted areas
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit, Michigan (the ?City?), the City has established
the City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (the pursuant to
Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended (?Act 381?).

The primary purpose of this Brown?eld Plan (?Plan?) is to promote the redevelopment of
and private investment in certain ?brown?eld? properties within the City. Inclusion of
property within this Plan will facilitate ?nancing of environmental response and other
eligible activities at eligible properties and will also provide tax incentives to eligible
taxpayers willing to invest in revitalization of eligible sites, commonly referred to as
?brown?elds.? By facilitating redevelopment of brown?eld properties, this Plan is
intended to promote economic growth for the bene?t of the residents of the City and all
taxing units located within and bene?ted by the DBRA.

This Plan is intended to apply to the eligible property identi?ed in this Plan and, if tax
increment revenues are proposed to be captured from that eligible property, to identify and
authorize the eligible activities to be funded by such tax increment revenues.

This Plan is intended to be a living document, which may be modi?ed or amended in
accordance with the requirements of Act 381, as necessary to achieve the purposes of Act
381. The identi?cation or designation of a developer or proposed use of the eligible
property shall not necessitate an amendment to this Plan, affect the application of this Plan
to the eligible property or impair the rights available to the DBRA under this Plan. The
applicable sections of Act 381 are noted throughout the Plan for reference purposes.

This Plan describes the project to be completed (see Attachment C) and contains all the
information required by Section 13(2) of Act 381. 

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

II. GENERAL PROVISIONS

 

A. Description of the Eligible l?rcpertv (Section 13 (2)011} and the Project

The property comprising the eligible property consists of one (1) parcel. 311 East Grand
River Avenue is a historic resource. The aforementioned parcel and all tangible personal
property located thereon will comprise the eligible property and is referred to herein as the
?Property.?

Attachment A includes a site map of the Property and Attachment includes the Property
legal description. The Property is located in Detroit?s Central Business District, just two
blocks east of Grand Circus Park, bounded by Centre Street to the south, the property line
to the west, the alley between John Street and Grand River Avenue to the north, and
Grand River Avenue to the east.

Parcel information is outlined below.

 

 

 

Address 31 1 East Grand River Avenue
Parcel ID 01004041-2
Owner 311 Grand River, LLC

 

NE CENTRE 71&70 PLAT OF SEC 9 GOVERNOR 
JUDGES PLAN L34 P552 DEEDS, 1/56 124.22

Legal Description IRRE 

 

 

 

 

31 1 Grand River, LLC is the project developer (?Developer?) and owner of the Property.
The project will renovate the existing historic structure to include updated tenant spaces,
including a Speakeasy bar and dining room at the basement level and a restaurant and
lounge on the main level. The existing restaurant tenant, Colors, will remain on the
Property and the Developer will improve their tenant space during construction activities.

The second ?oor of the building will include of?ce and co?working space, with private
rooms for conferences and meetings. The improvements to the third floor will include the
restoration of the main assembly space and stage, with a side lounge and bar, the restoration
of the mezzanine will be restored and the construction of two bridal suites and additional
event storage space. It is currently anticipated that construction will begin in the summer
of 2019 and eligible activities will be completed within nine (9) months.

The project description provided herein is a summary of the proposed development at the
time of the adoption of the Plan. The actual development may vary from the project
description provided herein, without necessitating an amendment to this Plan, so long as
such variations are not material and arise as a result of changes in market and/or financing
conditions affecting the project and/or are related to the addition or immaterial removal of
amenities to the project. All material changes, as determined by DBRA in its sole
discretion, to the project description are subject to the approval of the DBRA staff and shall

2

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

be consistent with the overall nature of the proposed development, its proposed public
purpose, and the purposes of Act 381.

Attachment provides a description of the project to be completed at the Property (the
?Project?) and Attachment includes letters of support for the Project.

Basis of Eligibility (Section 13 and Section 2 

The Property is considered ?eligible property? as de?ned by Act 381, Section 2 because
the Property was previously utilized or is currently utilized for a commercial purpose;
it is located within the City of Detroit, a quali?ed local governmental unit under Act
381; and the Property is determined to be a historic resource as de?ned by Act 381.

The Property was listed as a Michigan Historic Site in 1975 and was individually listed in
the National Register of Historic Places in 1980. In addition, the Property is listed in
Detroit?s local Madison-Harmonie Historic District.

C. Summarv of Eligible Activities and Description of Costs (Section 13 
The ?eligible activities? that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
?eligible activities? as de?ned by Section 2 of Act 381, because they include demolition,
asbestos abatement, infrastructure improvements, site preparation activities, and the
preparation and implementation of a brown?eld plan and 381 work plan.

A summary of the eligible activities and the estimated cost of each eligible activity intended
to be paid for with tax increment revenues (as de?ned in Section 2(ss) of Act 381) from
the Property are shown in the table attached hereto as Attachment E. The eligible activities
described in Attachment are not exhaustive. Subject to the approval of DBRA staff in
writing, additional eligible activities may be carried out at the Property, without requiring
an amendment to this Plan, so long as such eligible activities are permitted by Act 381 and
the cost of such eligible activities does not exceed the total costs stated in Attachment E.

Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the DBRA, all eligible activities shall commence
within eighteen (18) months after the date the governing body approves this Plan and be
completed within three (3) years after approval of the Michigan Strategic Fund work plan,
if applicable, or three (3) years after execution of the Reimbursement Agreement (as that
term is de?ned below). Any long-term monitoring or operation and maintenance activities
or obligations that may be required will be performed in compliance with the terms of this
Plan and any documents prepared pursuant to this Plan.

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities incurred by it as
described below. Some eligible activities may commence prior to the adoption of this Plan
and to the extent permitted by Act 381 shall be reimbursable pursuant to the
Reimbursement Agreement. Tax increment revenue generated by the Property will be
captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible activities completed
on the Property pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement Agreement to be executed by
the DBRA and the Developer after approval of this Plan (the ?Reimbursement
Agreement?), to the extent permitted by Act 381. In the event this Plan contemplates the

3

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

capture of tax increment revenue derived from ?taxes levied for school operating purposes?
(as de?ned by Section 2(uu) of Act 381 and hereinafter referred to as ?School Taxes?), the
Developer acknowledges and agrees that obligation to reimburse the Developer
for the cost of eligible activities with tax increment revenue derived from Local Taxes, or
Speci?c Taxes that are considered Local Taxes, (as these capitalized terms are de?ned by
Act 381) is contingent upon: the Developer receiving at least the initial applicable work
plan approvals by the Michigan Strategic Fund and the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality, as may be required pursuant to Act 381, within 180 days after the
date this Plan is approved by the governing body, or such other date as the DBRA may
agree to in writing or (ii) the Developer providing the DBRA with evidence, satisfactory
to DBRA, that the Developer has the ?nancial means to complete the project without the
capture of, and subsequent reimbursement with, the contemplated School Taxes.

The costs listed in Attachment are estimated costs and may increase or decrease
depending on the nature and extent of environmental contamination and other unknown
conditions encountered on the Property. The actual cost of those eligible activities
encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from tax increment revenues
of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the Reimbursement
Agreement. No costs of eligible activities will be quali?ed for reimbursement except to
the extent permitted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Reimbursement
Agreement and Act 381. The Reimbursement Agreement and this Plan will dictate the
total cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement, provided that the total
cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement under the Reimbursement
Agreement shall not exceed the estimated costs set forth in Attachment B. As long as the
total costs are not exceeded, line item costs of eligible activities may be adjusted after the
date this Plan is approved by the governing body, to the extent the adjustments do not
violate the terms of the approved MDEQ or MSF work plan.

D. Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax Increment Revenues Section
Beginning Date of Capture of Tax Increment Revenues (Section 
Impact of Tax Increment Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions (Section 

This Plan anticipates the capture of tax increment revenues to reimburse the Developer for
the costs of eligible activities under this Plan in accordance with the Reimbursement
Agreement. Subject to Section 13(b)(16) of Act 381, a table of estimated tax increment
revenues associated with estimated capture and reimbursement are attached to this Plan as
Attachment F.

Tax increments are projected to be captured and applied to reimbursement of eligible
activity costs and payment of DBRA administrative and operating expenses, (ii) make
deposits into the State Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund, and make deposits into the
Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund, as follows:

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

 

 

Reimbursements Admin. Local
Costs Costs Brown?eld Revolving

School Operating Tax $496,466 - - -
State Education Tax $82,744 - $82,856 -
County (combined) - $4,251 - $9,768
County Public Safety - $4,029 $9,258
County Parks - $1,056 - $2,427
RESA Enhancement - $50 -
RESA - $14,880 - $34,190
TOTALS $579,210 $24,267 $82,856 $55,643

In addition, the following taxes are projected to be generated but shall not be captured during
the life of this Plan:

City Debt $99,151
School Debt and Judgment $184,138
Wayne County DIA $2,833
Wayne County Zoo $1,416
Total $287,539

In no event shall the duration of this Plan exceed thirty-?ve (35) years following the date
of the governing body?s resolution approving this Plan, nor shall the duration of the tax
capture exceed the lesser of the period authorized under subsection (3) and (5) of Section
13 of Act 381 or 30 years. Further, in no event shall the beginning date of the capture of
tax increment revenues be later than ?ve (5) years after the date of the governing body?s
resolution approving this Plan.

The Developer anticipates approval of an Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act, PA 146
Tax Abatement (OPRA), which, if approved, would abate 100% of the non?land local taxes
on the existing Harmonie Social Club building for up to 12 years. Due to the fact that the
property is currently exempt, an estimated frozen/base taxable value has been included as
$25,000. In the event the OPRA is approved, the tax abatement will reduce the property
tax obligations of the Property for the periods applicable under the abatement certi?cate,
thereby reducing the amount of tax increment revenues available under this Plan.

E. Plan of Financi?g (Section Maximum Amount (Section
13mm!

The eligible activities are to be ?nanced solely by the Developer. The DBRA will
reimburse the Developer for the cost of approved eligible activities, but only from tax
increment revenues generated from the Property. No advances have been or shall be made
by the City or the DBRA for the costs of eligible activities under this Plan.

All reimbursements authorized under this Plan shall be governed by the Reimbursement
Agreement. The inclusion of eligible activities and estimates of costs to be reimbursed in
this Plan are intended to authorize the DBRA to fund such reimbursements and does not

5

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

obligate the DBRA or the City to fund any reimbursement or to enter into the
Reimbursement Agreement providing for the reimbursement of any costs for which tax
increment revenues may be captured under this Plan, or which are permitted to be
reimbursed under this Plan. The amount and source of any tax increment revenues that
will be used for purposes authorized by this Plan, and the terms and conditions for such
use and upon any reimbursement of the expenses permitted by this Plan, will be provided
solely under the Reimbursement Agreement contemplated by this Plan.

Unless otherwise agreed upon by the Developer, the DBRA, and the State of Michigan, the
DBRA shall not incur any note or bonded indebtedness to ?nance the purposes of this Plan.

Reimbursements under the Reimbursement Agreement shall not exceed the cost of Eligible
Activities permitted under this Plan.

The Developer acknowledges and agrees that any activities funded by a grant or conditional
loan shall be ineligible for reimbursement under this Plan and shall not be included in any
reimbursement requests to DBRA by or on behalf of the Developer. However, any loans
awarded under or from governmental agencies/sources such as, but not limited to, MDEQ
or US EPA that the Developer is required to unconditionally repay shall be eligible for
reimbursement under the Plan, subject to the Reimbursement Agreement.

F. Duration of Plan (Section 1mm)

Subject to Section 13b(16) of Act 381, the beginning date of capture of tax increment
revenues for each eligible property shall occur in accordance with the Tax Increment
Financing (TIF) table described in Exhibit F. In no event, however, shall this Plan extend
beyond the maximum term allowed by Section 13(2)(f) of Act 381 for the duration of this
Plan.

Furthermore, this Plan, or any subsequent amendment thereto, may be abolished or
terminated in accordance with Section 14(8) of Act 381 in the event of any of the following:

a. The governing body may abolish this Plan (or any subsequent amendment
thereto) when it ?nds that the purposes for which this Plan was established have been
accomplished.

b. The governing body may terminate this Plan (or any subsequent amendment
thereto) if the project for which eligible activities were identi?ed in this Plan (or any
subsequent amendment thereto) fails to occur with respect to the eligible property for at
least two (2) years following the date of the governing body resolution approving this Plan
(or any subsequent amendment thereto), provided that the governing body ?rst does both
of the following: (1) gives 30 days? written notice to the Developer at its last known address
by certi?ed mail or other method that documents proof of delivery attempted; and (ii)
provides the Developer with an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting.

Notwithstanding anything in this subsection to the contrary, this Plan (or any subsequent
amendment thereto) shall not be abolished or terminated until the principal and interest on
bonds, if any, issued under Section 17 of Act 381 and all other obligations to which the tax

6

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

increment revenues are pledged have been paid or funds suf?cient to make the payment
have been identi?ed or segregated.

G. Effective Date of Inclusion in Brownfield Plan
The Property will become a part of this Plan on the date this Plan is approved by the
governing body.

H. DisnInceinentJ'Relocation of lg?vid nals on Eligible Property (Section 
No displacement of residents is anticipated as part of this Project. There are no residential
occupants on the Property; however, there is currently one (1) business occupant, Colors.

The Developer will work to keep Colors within the existing neighborhood during
construction and at a minimum within the downtown area. It is anticipated that Colors will
be relocated for approximately six (6) months during construction. During this time,
upgrades will be made to the restaurant space and the restaurant will not operate while
these upgrades take place. The Developer will work with Colors and the construction
schedule to ensure that the duration of their relocation is kept to a minimum. Since the
location of their business within the building is isolated within the lower level, it allows
Colors to move into the renovated space while other construction activities continue to take
place on the rest of the building. Developer shall comply with all applicable relocation
requirements under Act 381 and the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property
Acquisitions Policies Act of 1970, Public Law 91-646.

1. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund [Section 8; Section 

The DBRA has established a Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF). The LBRF will
consist of all tax increment revenues authorized to be captured and deposited in the 
as speci?ed in Section 13(5) of Act 381, under this Plan and any other plan of the DBRA.
It may also include funds appropriated or otherwise made available from public or private
sources.

The amount of tax increment revenue authorized for capture and deposit in the LBRF is
currently estimated at $55,643. All funds, if any, deposited in the LBRF shall be used in
accordance with Section 8 of Act 381.

.1. Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund (Section 83: Section 

The DBRA shall pay to the Department of Treasury at least once annually an amount equal
to 50% of the taxes levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to
211.906, that are captured under this Plan for up to the ?rst twenty-?ve (25) years of the
duration of capture of tax increment revenues for each eligible property included in this
Plan. If the DBRA pays an amount equal to 50% of the taxes levied under the state
education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to 211.906, on a parcel of eligible property to
the Department of Treasury under Section 13b(14) of Act 381, the percentage of local taxes
levied on that parcel and used to reimburse eligible activities for the Project under this Plan
shall not exceed the percentage of local taxes levied on that parcel that would have been
used to reimburse eligible activities for the Project under this Plan if the 50% of the taxes

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to 211.906, on that parcel
were not paid to the Department of Treasury under Section l3b(14) of Act 381.

K. Developer?s Obligations. Representations and Warrants

The Developer and its af?liates shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances,
executive orders, or other regulations imposed by the City or any other properly constituted
governmental authority with respect to the Property and shall use the Property in
accordance with this Plan.

The Developer, at its sole cost and expense, shall be solely responsible for and shall fully
comply with all applicable federal, state, and local relocation requirements in implementing
this Plan.

The Developer represents and warrants that a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
has been performed on the Property (?Environmental Documents?). Attached
hereto as Attachment is the City of Detroit?s Department of Buildings, Safety
Engineering and Environmental acknowledgement of its receipt of the Phase I BSA, and if
appropriate, the Phase II BSA.

The Developer further represents and warrants that the Project does not and will not include
a City of Detroit Land Bank Authority, Wayne County Land Bank Authority or State of
Michigan Land Bank ?nancing component.

Except as otherwise agreed to by the DBRA, any breach of a representation or warranty

contained in this Plan shall render the Plan invalid, subject to the Developer?s reasonable
opportunity to cure as described in the Reimbursement Agreement.

#3708938 v9

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT A

Site Map

November 3, 2016

Wayne County Parcel Viewer

 

111.128

0.0125 0.025 0-0.02 0.04 0.08 km

Sources' Esri. HERE. DeLorme, lnten-nap. increment Corp.
GEECO, USGS, FAO, NPS NRCAN, GeoBase. Kadaster NL.
Ordnance Survey. Esri Japan, Esn' China (Hong Kong).
swisslopo, G: OpenSIreekMap :unlribumrs. and the GIS
User Community

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Legal Descriptions of Eligible Property to which the Plan Applies

Legal Description 311 East Grand River Avenue, Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan:
Parcel: 01004041-2

NE CENTRE 71&70 PLAT OF SEC 9 GOVERNOR JUDGES PLAN L34 P552 DEEDS, 
1/56 124.22 IRREG

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Project Description

HARMONIE SOCIAL CLUB
PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Development Team and Company Synopsis

311 Grand River, LLC (Developer) is an affiliate of Basco of Michigan (Basco). Basco,
along with its group companies, is a local property development and management firm
founded in 2001 by Roger Basmajian. Basco?s focus is on investing and redeveloping
properties in established neighborhoods in Southeastern Michigan to transform
neglected and underutilized properties into new and creative uses. Basco?s
redevelopment work began in the walkable communities of Royal Oak, MI and
Ferndale, MI. Between the Royal Oak and Ferndale, Basco has redeveloped
approximately 100,000 square feet of retail, mixed use and office space.

Basco?s ultimate goal was to become involved in the redevelopment of Detroit?s
beautiful, but neglected, buildings and to slowly bring vibrancy and diversity to Detroit?s
communities. In 2013, Basco purchased The First State Bank property at 751 Griswold
Street and embarked on its first Detroit project. Since Basco has redeveloped the
property at 607 Shelby back to a vibrant office building and is underway with
construction at 220 West Congress. To date, Basco has purchased multiple properties
in and around Downtown Detroit totaling of approximately 350,000 sq. feet. Each
project consists of planned rehabilitations that seek to preserve the historical integrity
of the buildings and the culture and aesthetics of the surrounding areas.

The development team has selected MIG Construction as the General Contractor and
Hamilton Anderson as the architect who are both Detroit based.

Project Synopsis

The Developer intends to renovate the existing building, which consists of three-stories
plus a basement and a mezzanine totaling approximately 39,172 gross square feet.
The property is located in Detroit?s Central Business
District. The existing building was constructed in
1894 and was occupied by a society club until the
late 19705. The building was then vacant until the
early 19905 and has been occupied by an art gallery,
offices, and a restaurant. The building is a well-
preserved example of Beaux Arts, club architecture,
featuring rusticated stone, buff-colored brick, and
large pilasters accentuating the classical design for
public buildings of the 18905. The building was
designed by Detroiter, Richard E. Raseman who was
selected from a competition for the building?s design.
From the start, the building shone as a lavish place
- for social organization and musical gatherings.
Currently, the only tenant is the restaurant, Colors.

The proposed redevelopment entails significant
renovations to both the interior and exterior of the
current building for use as a mixed-use commercial

 

Attachment 
Page 1

property. Exterior improvements include facade restoration to ensure longevity of the
building?s distinguishing style and historic character, a new roof, improvements to the
windows and doors, and upgrades to the electrical and water mains. Additionally, the
Developer will invest in improvements to the sidewalks and landscaping as well as
improvements to the sidewalks and alley paving at the rear side of the property.

The basement and ground floor will be completely renovated for use of over 16,000
square feet of restaurant, lounge, and Speakeasy tenant space. The existing tenant,
Colors, will remain and is including in the building improvements to modernize the
tenant space. Colors restaurant is operated as a non-profit by the Restaurant
Opportunities Center (ROC) that offers a training program, focusing on high earning
employment opportunities for women and people of color. The restaurant offers wages
well above the set minimum wages and even offers long-term training programs for
non-traditional students seeking training after life-altering events.

Colors restaurant is operated as a non-profit by the Restaurant Opportunities Center
(ROC) that offers a training program, focusing on high earning employment
opportunities for women and people of color. The restaurant offers wages well above
the set minimum wages and even offers long-term training programs for non-traditional
students seeking training after life?altering events. Colors provides classroom training
as well as on the floor experience to help students find the best opportunities in the
food and hospitality industry.

A partnership with Zingerman?s Delicatessen, a Michigan based company, will also
help Colors expand their presence and marketability in the City upon reopening within
the 311 Grand River location. Currently, 150 people are trained annually by Colors to
begin careers. The agreement with Zingerman?s Del will provide capacity for an
additional 50 trainees per year. Overall the improvements and new partnership will
allow for better branding opportunities, upgraded facilities, improved management
skills and an increased ability to teach/mentor those entering the training program. The
activation of the rest of the property will also supply Colors with a more secured and
expanded customer base. Colors has executed a letter of intent to lease and remain on
the property.



The second floor entails the
rehabilitation of the vacant office .
space into a restored open co-working ., Space with conference rooms and
other partitions for private meetings
and events totaling approximately
8,200 gross square feet. The co?
working space will maintain the social
club atmosphere while maintaining
and restoring the historic features of
the space, including the columns that
dot the area.

 

Attachment 
Page 2

The third floor and mezzanine level
will include the restoration of the
existing assembly space for event
use, inclusive of an additional
approximately 8,200 square feet. The
property will also include space for
two bridal suites. The build out
includes restoration of the assembly
ceiling, the wood floors, columns and
arches, and the stage at the front of
the space. The goal is to restore the
building and its connections to

 

Paradise Valley as an arts and 
entertainment center for downtown WI.
Detroit. 

Rehabilitation work for each floor will consist of abatement activities and selective
demolition to maintain the building?s significant historic features. This also includes
restoration work for ornamental metals, millwork, and other prominent features. New
plumbing, HVAC, and electrical systems will be installed to ensure the rehabilitation
meets the demands of modern tenants. This work also includes upgrading of restroom
facilities for handicap access. Modern fire protection systems and elevators will also be
included in the project.

Project Investment Estimates

 

 

Capital Cost Total Cost

Renovation/Rehabilitation 8,090,000
Acquisition Cost 1,600,000
Soft Costs 2,930,000
Total Capital Costs 12,620,000

Additional Financing Incentives Associated with the Redevelopment

Substantial investment is necessary to rehabilitate the existing building. In efforts to
grow this project into a viable, long?term redevelopment, the Developer is pursuing an
Obsolete Property Rehabilitation Act (OPRA) Tax Abatement and Historic Tax Credits.

Cost/Benefit Analysis

The proposed development will create a sense of place, encourage increased spending
and create new jobs in the heart of Detroit. This redevelopment is also part of a larger
effort involving the Detroit Downtown Development Authority to bring vibrancy to the
Paradise Valley Cultural and Entertainment District in downtown. The district has been
created to honor the legacy of the African?American businesses that thrived here until
urban renewal programs displaced neighborhood life. The development will breathe
new life into a historic building and will provide additional culinary culture, commercial
work space, and recreational and entertainment amenities to increase foot traffic

Attachment 
Page 3

between the Madison Street and Broadway Street corridors at all times of day. The
project will generate new income tax for Detroit as a result of the creation of private
investment. Local businesses in the area will benefit from the creation of new jobs and
foot traffic into the area and an increase in spinoff consumer spending.

On a short-term basis, approximately 34 construction jobs will be needed each day
during the estimated nine-month construction period. On a long-term basis the
proposed redevelopment associated with the project will create approximately 2 part-
time jobs (1 full-time equivalent directly by the developer. Colors is expected to
retain 14 full-time jobs, while increasing capacity for career training from 150 students
annually to up to 200 students with their new partnership with Zingerman's Deli. It is
estimated that future tenants will create an additional 122.5 (FTE) jobs. The
development team will present at a skilled trades task force meeting and utilized the
Michigan Minority Contractors Association to solicit bidders and garner opportunities to
employ Detroit residents. If the D2D program is available within the necessary
timeframes, the developer will utilize this as an additional procurement source. This
has proven successful on Basco?s recent developments of 220 West Congress, 607
Shelby and 751 Griswold.

The increase in tenant-based jobs within the building will increase City collected
income tax at a 1.2% rate for non-residents and 2.4% rate for Detroiters. This is
estimated at approximately $77,805 more than what is currently collected on an annual
basis if 50% of those employed are Detroit residents. This estimate is based on an
average annual salary estimate of $35,000 for the developer created FTE job and the
estimated 122.5 tenant employees that are anticipated.

Following the expiration of the 12-year OPRA abatement, the building will deliver a
significant increase in tax revenue. Over time, successful redevelopment will have a
significant impact on Detroit?s CBD.

Attachment 
Page 4

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Supportive Letters

275 7th Ave. Ste 1703
New York, NY 10001
Tel: 212-343-1771
Fax: 212-243- 0800

HESTIUFHT IPPHIIHHIES 

February 19, 2019

Mr. Graten Little, Jr.
BASCO

607 Shelby, Suite 600.
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Dear Mr. Little:

On behalf of Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, it is with extreme pleasure that otter
this letter in support of BASCO's proposed ?Harmonie Social Club" Project located at 311 East
Grand River Avenue in Detroit's historic Paradise Valley. Colors Detroit Restaurant, our
social enterprise, has been housed at this location since late 2011. During our tenure we
have provided restaurant/hospitality training and job placement services to more than 350
Detroit area residents seeking to gain entry level positions or advance their careers in this
industry. Additionally, we have supported over 100 restaurant owners/food entrepreneurs
through our operations courses, incubation services, training support, and employment
servrces.

We are very excited about the proposed use of this building as well as our own business
expansion plans. We will be partnering with Zingermans to enhance Colors' business
operations and training programs and to retail their quality products. We propose a
seven-day upscale casual dining restaurant and have signed a Letter of Intent with BASCO to
remain tenants in our current space. This project has the potential to be ?nancially lucrative for
investors as well as provide community bene?ts for hundreds of Detroit residents. It is therefore

our sincere hope that this project merits positive consideration for abatements and other
incentives that will ultimately bene?t Detroit area residents.



sly, . . 
r. Alicia Renee Farri

National Director of Human Resources

Board of Trustees 2018

   

jilu sic Ella 

CENTER FOR THE All '19

Chairman of the Board: Mr. Alex L. Parrish

Mr. lohn Ahee

Mr. Larry Alebiosu

Mrs. Margaret Allesee
Ms. Marsha L. Bass

Mr. Leland K. Bassett
Mrs. Tina Bassett

Mr. Derek T. Batts

Mr. Marvin Beatty

Mrs. Betty Brooks

Ms. Denise Brooks-Williams
Mr. Darrell Burks

Mr. William M. Carey
Dr. Vivian L. Carpenter
Mrs. Robin Cole

Dr. luiius V. Combs

Dr. Cara Curry

Mr. Ara Darakiian

Dr. David DlChiera

Mr. Dliip Dubey

Mr. Cameron B. Duncan
Ms Sue Ellen Elsenberg
Mr. David Ely

Ms. Linda Flnkel

Mrs. Jennifer Fischer
Mr. Gordon Foilmer

Mr. Marvin Frenkel
Mrs. Henrietta Fridholm
Ms. Carol A. Friend

Mr. David Gaskin

Mr. Tom 6055

Ms. Tatiana D. Grant
Ms. Ann Hall

Mr. Elliott Hall

Mr. Rainy Hamilton. Ir.
Ms. once Hayes Giles
Mrs. Karen Healy

Mr. George Hlii

Mr. Aaron Hodari

Mr. Gregory lackson
Hon. Damon I. Keith
Mrs. Linda Klein

Mrs. Paulette Koffron
Mr. David I. Lochner
Mr. let'frey McKelvey
Mr. Brian Mooney

Mrs. Savarlor Moss-Service
Mr. William S. Noakes, Ir.
Dr. luiiette Okotle-Eboh
Mr. Vince Paul

Mrs. Peggy Pitt

Ms. Gail Perry-Mason
Mrs. Patti Prowse

Mr. Luis Resto

Mr. Leon C. Richardson
Mr. Roy Roberts

Mr. Alien Ross

Ms. Michele A. Samuels
Mr. Thomas H. Seabron, Jr.
Mr. lames Settles, Ir.
Mr. Robert Shumake
Ms. Snow

Mr. Ricardo A. Solomon
Mr. Samuel Thomas

Mr. Wayne Thomas

Ms. Gretchen Valade
Mr. Jeffrey H. Vanneste
Mr. Shaun Wilson

Mr. William Patrick Young
Ms. Mary Lou Zleve

January 30, 2019

To Honorable City Council, City of Detroit,

On behalf of Music Hall Center, 1, Vince Paul, would like to express our full
support for Basco of Michigan?s (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322-
1332 Broadway and 311 East Grand River. We believe that both projects would
be great contributions to the emerging entertainment cultural 8: historic district
known as Paradise Valley. We are confident that BASCO, who is headquartered
in Detroit and a seasoned developer of historical buildings, will be successful
with these adaptive re-use projects.

The Music Hall welcomes the energy and activity that Paradise Valley needs.
As a provider of programing and entertainment to this community, we believe
the proposed uses will compliment what already exists. The developments are
mixed-use, hospitality, retail, and residential. Even though the projects are
independent of each other, both projects will contribute to the density and
walkability of the neighborhood. As a result, there will be other economic
benefits to the neighborhood and the City as a whole.

As a Paradise Valley business and stakeholder, we are pleased to see the
direction of these projects. I look forward to these projects contributing to the

continued growth of the Paradise Valley community and greater Detroit.

Respectfully,

 

Vince Paul
President 8: Artistic Director
Music Hall Center for the Performing Arts

350 Madison Avenue. Detroit. Michigan 48226 Tel: (313) 887-8500 I?m: (313) 887-8502



HamiltonAnderson

February 1. 2019

Dear Members of the Detroit City Council:

On behalf of Hamilton Anderson Associates (HAA). lwould like to express my full support for Basco
of Michigan's (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322-1332 Broadway and 311 East Grand River. I
believe that both projects will be great contributions to the Paradise Valley Cultural Entertainment
District (PVCED). and that BASCO. a Detroit headquartered entity, will be successful with the adaptive

re-use of the existing buildings.

As current tenants of the district. HAA welcomes the proposed energy and activity to the area. and are
confident the developments will compliment what already exists. as well as what is to come. The
proposed programming calls for mixed-use. hospitality. retail and residential. all elements that are
needed to further revitalize the district. Independently. both projects will contribute to the density
and walkability of the neighborhood. and as a result. there will be other economic benefits to the

neighborhood and the city as a whole.

As a longstanding PVCED business owner and stakeholder. lam pleased to see the direction of these
projects, and look forward to the development contributing to the continued growth of the PVCED

community and greater Detroit.

Respectfully.

 

Principal

1435 Randolph. Suite 200. Detroit. MI 48226 313 964 0270 313 964 0170 fax hamilton-andersoncom


THEATRE

January 30, 2019

To Honorable City Council, City of Detroit,

On behalf of Michigan Opera Theatre, I, Patricia Walker, would like to express our
support for BASCO of Michigan?s (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322?1332
Broadway and 311 East Grand River. We believe that both projects would be great
contributions to the emerging entertainment cultural historic district known as
Paradise Valley.

The Michigan Opera Theatre welcomes the energy and activity that these Paradise
Valley developments would bring. As a provider of theatre and entertainment to this
community, we believe the proposed uses will compliment what already exists. The
developments are mixed-use, hospitality, retail, and residential. We believe that both
projects will contribute to the density and walkability of the neighborhood, and will
provide economic benefits to the neighborhood and the City as a whole.

As a Paradise Valley business and stakeholder, we are pleased to see the direction of

these projects. I look forward to these projects contributing to the continued growth
of the neighborhood, the community and greater Detroit.

Respectfully,

. 
{Mai (xi/M

Patricia K. Walker
Chief Administrative Officer
Michigan Opera Theatre

1526 Broadway. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Phone 313-961-3500 Fax 313-237-3412 

 

January 30, 2019

To Honorable City Council, City of Detroit,

On behalf of Real Times Media the Michigan Chronicle, I, Hiram Jackson, would like to express our full
support for Basco of Michigan?s (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322-1332 Broadway and 311
East Grand River. We believe that both projects would be great contributions to the emerging
entertainment cultural historic district known as Paradise Valley. We are confident that BASCO, who is
headquartered in Detroit and a seasoned developer of historical buildings, will be successful with these
adaptive re-use projects.

The Michigan Chronicle welcomes the energy and activity that Paradise Valley needs. As a provider of
news worthy journalism to this community, we believe the proposed uses will compliment what already
exists. The developments are mixed-use, hospitality, retail, and residential. Even though the projects are
independent of each other, both projects will contribute to the density and walkability ofthe
neighborhood. As a result, there will be other economic benefits to the neighborhood and the City as a
whole.

As a Paradise Valley business and stakeholder, we are pleased to see the direction of these projects. I
look forward to these projects contributing to the continued growth of the Paradise Valley community
and greater Detroit.

Respectfully,

L.

Hiram Jackson
Publisher CEO

Real Times Media

January 30, 2019

To Honorable City Council, City of Detroit,

On behalf of La Casa Cigars Lounge, Maria Petrenko, would like to express our full support for Basco
of Michigan's (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322-1332 Broadway and 311 East Grand River. We
believe that both projects would be great contributions to the emerging entertainment cultural 
historic district known as Paradise Valley. We are confident that BASCO, who is headquartered in
Detroit and a seasoned developer of historical buildings, will be successful with these adaptive re-use
projects

The La Casa Cigars Lounge Theatre welcomes the energy and activity that Paradise Valley needs. As a
provider of entertainment and spirits to this community, we believe the proposed uses will compliment
what already exists. The developments are mixed-use, hospitality, retail, and residential. Even though
the projects are independent of each other, both projects will contribute to the density and walkability
of the neighborhood. As a result, there will be other economic benefits to the neighborhood and the
City as a whole.

As a Paradise Valley business and stakeholder, we are pleased to see the direction ofthese projects. I

look forward to these projects contributing to the continued growth of the Paradise Valley community
and greater Detroit.

Respectfully,

Maria Petrenko

Title

La Casa Cigars Lounge

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities Table

 

Table 1: Eligible Activities Cost Estimates
311 Grand River, Detroit, Mi

 

ItemlActivity

Total Request

MSF Act 381 Eligible
Activities

MDEQ Act 381 Eligible
Activities

 

Pre-Approved 

 

Phase I ESA

2.600

2.600

 

Hazardous Materials Survey

(5

5.000

5.000

 

Pre-Approved Activities Sub-Total

3 7,600

7,600

 

Demolition

 

Building Demolition Activities

149.000

149.000

 

Demolition Sub-Total

149,000

149,000

 

Asbestos Activities

 

Asbestos Abatement, Oversight, Air Monitoring and Reporting

50.000

50.000

 

Asbestos Activities Sub-Total

0)

50,000



50,000

 

ilnfrastructure Improvements

 

Curbs/Gutters/Sidewalk Improvements

20,000

20,000

 

Public Lighting

15.000

15.000

 

Public Alley Improvements

40,000

40.000

 

Infrastructure Sub-Total

Eat-139%?

75,000

69969 

75,000

 

Site Preparation

 

Temporary Traf?c Control

16.000

16.000

 

Temporary Site Control (fencing, gates, signage and/or lighting)

35.000

35.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Water)

75.000

75.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Sanitary/Storm)

18.000

18,000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Electric)

8.000

8,000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (lntemet)

15.000

15.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Phone)

15.000

15.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Gas)

19.313

19.313

 

Site Preparation Sub-Total

69696995996696? U)

201,313



201,313

 

Preparation of Brown?eld Plan and Act 381 Workplan

 

Brown?eld Plan Preparation

20.000

20.000

 

Brown?eld Plan Implementation

5.000




5.000

 

25,000

5

 

Brown?eld Plan and Act 381 Workplan Sub-Total

- r. 

      

TIF Capture for Local Brown?eld Revo ving Fund

 

 

 







(I)

 

 

 

.090 701'



it?

25,000

  

71,29? 3 71,29?

 

 

 

 

     

 

Administrative Fee

 

State Brown?eld Fund

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

TIF Tables

Tax Increment Revenue Capture Btimates
311 Gland River, Detroit, MI
?asco of Michigan

 

Enimitcn 'l'inhlu Vila-50V] Inmlu l'll't-E 15 per

Terr Calendar Year 2010 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2020 2029
Base Taxable Value 5 - 5 
Estimated OPRA Base Taxable Value 25.000 25.000 5 25,000 5 5,000
Estimated New TV 2,060,602 2.051.208 3 2,102,020

5

25.000
2.000 .000

25,000
2020000
2,020,000
1,995,000

25,000
2.040.200
2,040,200
2,015,200

75, 000 25.000
2. 144 .271
2,144,271

2,113,271

25,000
2.165.713
2,165,713
2,140,713

2.123.040
2,123,040
2,098,040

Incremental Difference - Base TV) 2,060,602 2,081,208 2,102,020
OPRA Incremental Difference (New TV - Base TV 2,035,602 2,056,208 5 2,077,020

mm {mm

51:10EdutztionTax(SET) 6.0000 6.0000 . 5 noon 5 12,120 5 11.241
18.0000 18.0000 5 5 35.000 5 35.360 5 35.224

2,000,000



gay-1101010
?mumm-

1.010106%
(0010111505

1,975,000

 

1.6

12354 5 11.512 5 11.215 5- 12.005 5? 12.954
32.091 5 37.452 5 32.855 5 3:315 5 33.391 5 33.951

SchoolTntal 24.0000 24.0000 5 5 48.000 5 48.480 5 40.965 49.454 5 49.549 3 50,448 5 50,953 51,462 5 51,977

911"

 

Lee-m - was cm 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wayne County 0.9897 0.9897 Caun?r'f F000: Safety 0.9381 0.9381 Wn-ne County Parks 0.2459 0.2459 :115 3 21-317
RES-II Enhancement 2.0000 0.0000 3-4643 3-4543 lqul??n?eldtapmrabla?l'nta! 7.6380 5.6380 131 141 101

 

 

 

erhaem
7.0000 7.0000 . I .. . . . . 1.7r
13.0000 13.0000
?awegw?igrt 0.1000 0.2000
Waf?e [01.1an 200 0.1000 0.1000

Total Nan-CaptulableTales 20.3000 20.3000 .41.191 5 41,021 5 45.100 5 45.555 5 50.090 5 50,545 5 51,094 5 51.501 5 52.1.11

Page 1 of 2
2/21/2019

Tax lna?ement Revenue Capture Enirnates
311 Grand River, Detroit, MI
Basco of Michigan

 

human-d Tuable 1mm lTVi'Incnuso Tutu:

Plan ?iur

Calendar Year

Base Taxable Value

Estimated OPRA Base Taxable Value

Erin-hated New?!

Incremental Difference (New TV - Base TV)
OPRA Incremental Difference (New TV - Base TV

39:! gm trim-mi:

 

10
2030

I 5,000
2.187.371.
2,137,371
2,162,371

?05mm?

11
2031
25.000
2.201244
2,209,244
2,104,244

?mm-mu?

2032

25,000
1:31.37
2,231,337
2,206,337

2031 2032

5 2,253,550 5
5 2,253,650 

1270137 5
2,216,187

1n-

2033

2.259.943
2,238,948


5

16
2034

2.321.335
2,321,938

5
5

11
2035

2.3115. 1.57
2,345,157



203 6

2.355.509
2363,6051

TOTAL

 

State Education Tax (SET) 6.0000

13.124 

13,255

13,388

13,522 13.657 5

13.794

13.932_

5

14,071

5

14.212

235.377

 

School Operating Tax 18.0000

School Total 24.0000



39,373 5
52,45? 5

39,766
53.021

40.154.
53,552

40,971 5

5
.5. 40,555 5
54.5: 5

41.301 .

55,175



11.795

5

42.2.13

5

42.635

706.131

 

55.71?

5

55,234



[100191

941,508

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wayne County 0.9897 0 9897

1D

5 2,30 2.253

2,275

2. 298

2,321

2,344

14,019

 

County Public Safety
Wayne County Parks

0.9331
0.245 9

0 21-10

0.9381
0.2459

 

321;.

 

RESA Enhancement

5 2,114
5 554

1135

Home)
?mm

2, 157

2.178
571

1.011110

2.200

?mm

2.222

13.288
3,48 3

 


., .



50

 

Wayne County ISD 

875

1h?

01

49.070

 

011?. rm .1 . . ..

(fl-mm

 

71:: 12'3

Local Bruwn?eleltapmlahle Total

1;;3 

141 

 


City Debt
School Debt

Mil-p Ma
7.0000
13.0000
0.2000
0.1000

20.3000

7.0000
13.0000
0.2000
0.1000
20.3000

Way_ne County DIA

Total Non-Capturable Taxes

Total Capturable Millage:

 

0) 



 

52,638 

a





 

 

 

 

53 l.163

53,693

16,033



66?}

68,136

 



 

 



 

 

?18 011 

70,201

 

282519

 

 

Page 2 of 2
2/21/2019

Total State Incremental Revenue

Tax increment Revenue Reimbursement Estimates
311 Gland River, Detroit, MI

 

Developer
Maximum
Reimbursement

Proportionalltv Tues

Total School 81 Local

Local-Only Tues

Total

 

State



 

100.00% 5

579.210 5
0.00% - 

 



579,210

 

TOTAL

 

MDEQ
MSF

 

58.6996 5

1.31% 5 7,600

 

WU)

 

 

 

State Brown?eld Revolving Fund (50% 

State 11?: nullablefer Reimbursement

Total Local Incremental Revenue

BRA Administrative Fee (15% or max $100,000)

Deferred Administrative Fee Annual Total

Deferred Administrative Fee Outstanding Balance

Local Tm Available for Reimbursement

Tat-l Loal TIR 

DEVELOPER


Beginning


5 515,216



?1111th

5

EU: 
40,000
6,000
42,000

191
7,229
7,038
7,038

42,000

om nib-mm

i 5

337,210 

W101i)



5

5

43,480 40,965 5
6,060
4214. 190

141
7.366
7,225

21,415

Vii/$111M?

manure-yen

42.420 

 

141
7,439
7.258

28.713

mun-linen

43,273 5

comm
3

19?

7.373
361186

Menuhin!?

43,705 5

 

50,448 5
6,306 5
44,142 5

141 5
7.501 5
7.447 5
43,533 5

5

44,142 

 

494.790 5 5 451.945 - 5



Mi!

320.315 5

Estimated Total
Years of Plan:

50,953 5
6,369
44,584

mm







115.3125

51,462
6,433
45,030



141
7,741
7,600

58,656



45,030

0

131.2125

18

 

1025:
51,977
6,497
45,480

141
7,818
7 677

66,333

45,400

115,132 



 

   

State Tax Rei_rn humment
Local Tax Reimbursement
Total MSF Relmbursement Balance

VI

571.610

 

Is
:5

0101mm

41.863 is 42.282 
41_663 $ 42.282 5

- - 
416,133 I 466016 5

42.705 5
42,705 5
- 5
401311 5

43.132 5
43.132 I 

- 
160,129 5

43.563 - 5
43,563 
- ?3
116.616 5

43,999 5
43,999 
- 5
272.617 1 5

44.439 5
44.433

228. 1 78

?in?

44.683 
11,301

103.295 

 

M01 Environ talcum I

 


Local Tax Reimbursement
Total Reimbursement Balance

 

Total Annual Wielm

 

 

BHUWNFIEJJ REVOLVING FUND

LBRF Dtpaiits 
Tail Capture
teal Tn Capture

-s
.i

 

Up to ?ve years of capture for LBRF Deposits after eli

 

 

 

le activities are reimbursed

 

May be taken fro


55715

562'}
562-5


5:930?

6,-131 i 


47,420 5

 

 

 

81 Local ?R'anlv.

1.53 5
560 
- 5
1.352;

43.273 

1'23 5
573 5
5
1.230;;

43,705 I 5

57? -
575

11.110

?mus-n

 

nil-4,142 5


565 5
- 5
1,625;$



591 - 
531 



45.01015

uni-nu

597 I
597

1111?

45,450

Page 1 of 2
2/21/2019

Total State lncrementai Revenue

State Brown?eld Revolving Fund (50% ofSEl')

State 11!: Av?lal?e for Reinhursernenl

Total local Incremental Revenue

BRA Administralive Fee (15% of max $100,000]

Deferred Administrative Fee Annual Total

Deferred Administrative Fee Outstanding Balance

LerzFTin Available for Ralmhunemenl

Tot-I531! I LDCI 

DEVELOFE 
Balance

 

Tax Increment Revenue Reimbursement Estimates
311 Grand River, Detroit, MI

Estimated Capture

 

Administrative Fees

24 .267

 

State Revolving Fund

82,856

 

Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund 

55,643

 

10

2030

52,457
5 6,562
5 45,935

141
7,396
7,755

74,087

mynuesndh

5 45.135

5 m551.111 5

53,552
6,694
45,858

in mm

141
6,054
7,913

39,834

101154111001

am '5

15.515 5

m,

54,088
6,76 1
47,3 27

12,706
10,019

87,147

47,327.

i?Wi



14

12,333
1,925

10,908

1m

an

12,961
1.944

11,017

11,017

13.091 5 13,222
1.964 5 1.983

11,127 5 11,239

11.12? 5 11.139 .



5 662,843
5 82,856
5 579,992
13,354 5 79,909

2,003

11,351 3 55,643

11.15: 5 man



 

 

45.33? .

as 5

45.143

bid, ms

 

Sine 



45,715 i. 5

16.1.13

3 571.6?!

 

Lac-I 7n Helmhu?ement

45.73} 

 

?7

5

45,534



 

Tub! MSF Reimbursement Illance

1371.953

5

92,177- 5

mommy-i.

45.934

 

MEEQ Environmental East:
State Tax Reimbursement
Local Tax Reimbursement
Total MDEQ Reimbursement Balance

 

Yet-I Inn-l Damion-c ?mantles-run!

LOCAL BROWNFIELD REVOLVING FUND

till? ?epaei'l: 
Sun: Tan Capture
[ml Tu Cantu 1.83:

5 45.935

5
5
5




EELS


1225::

45.394 2 5

615
515



EU

46,856 5

 

Up to ?ve years ofcapture for Deposits afl

6.2.1
511

?6,545 I 5

inn?:

5

mm}

mm 5.



11,10"

- 5 -I5 
11.12;; s_ 
11.1.13 5 1.1.2.19_' 

 

 

5 525.910

 

 



55.543

354:.

Page 2 of 2


Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents

Attachment 

TO: THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FROM: DETROIT, BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING, AND ENVIRONMENTAL
DEPARTMENT

PROJECT: HARMONIE SOCIAL RIVER, LLC

DATE: February 22, 2019

The undersigned, from the City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety Engineering, and
Environmental Department acknowledges the receipt of the environmental documents listed below, which
have been submitted by 311 Grand River LLC, as developer, as part of its Brown?eld Plan submittal to
the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (DBRA), for the Harmonie Social Club Development

Project.

1 Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, pursuant to All Appropriate
Inquiry using American Society of Testing Materials (ASTM) Standard 1527-
13

Phase 11 Environmental Site Assessment, pursuant to ASTM Standard 1903 (if
appropriate)

Baseline Environmental Assessment, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan ?s Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, MCL 324.20101 et seq. (if
appropriate).

Due Care Plan, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan?s Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act, MCL 32420101 et seq. (if appropriate).

Based upon its review of the above environmental documents and the representations of
the developer, the City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety Engineering, and Environmental Department agrees
with the environmental consultant that there are no Recognized Environmental Concerns associated with
the site and no further investigation of the site is warranted. The property would qualify only as a blighted
property or as functionally obsolete. The Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department

has determined that the documents received for this project satisfy the DBRA Guidelines.

City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety
Engineering, and Environmental

Department
By: 3?ng ?5 . 

Its: 

 

Exhibit A
Harmonie Social Club
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Incentive Information Chart

INCENTIVE INFORMATION CHART: Harmonie Social Club

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District

Commercial Brownfield/Obsolete Property $8.09 Million Hard Cost Investment CBD
Rehabilitation Tax $12.6 Million Total Investment
Abatement

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jobs Available

 

Construction Post Construction

 

 

Professional Non-Professional Skilled Labor Non-Skilled Labor Professional Non-Professional Skilled Labor Non-Skilled Labor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

estimated that approximately 122.5 new permanent full time equivalent (FTE) jobs will be created by the tenants

1. What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

The development team will present at a skilled trades task force meeting and utilized the Michigan Minority Contractors Association to
solicit bidders and garner opportunities to employ Detroit residents. This has proven successful on Basco's recent developments of
220 Congress, 607 Shelby and 751 Griswold.

311 Grand River, LLC has a policy of non-discrimination in its hiring practices, as is required by prevailing non-discrimination laws. As
long as we remain in compliance with these policies and laws, we encourage local, Detroit-based workers, both permanent and
temporary. The same requirement is communicated to our contractors. The Developer, and its af?liate Basco, have a proven track-

record of utilizing Detroit?based contractors and workers on past developments. Basco has utilized roughly 65% Detroit-based
contractors on its two most recent redevelopment projects.

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job
qualifications, etc.

Available construction jobs include plaster restoration, demolition, concrete, masonry, and steel work, architectural
woodwork, roofing, window glass and glazing, painting, ?ooring, plumbing and HVAC and electrical.

The Developer anticipates the creation of one full time equivalent permanent job related to property management.
3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?

The project is anticipated to encourage Detroit residents to work and thus likely live within the City through the new tenant created jobs
as well as the additional trainees that will go through the Color?s training program.

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential jobs?
Yes. Developer has engaged with local, Detroit-based businesses, including Hamilton Anderson Associates, Real Times
Media the Michigan Chronicle, Michigan Opera Theater, and the Music Hall that have roots in the area and other
businesses making similar investment in the area.

5. When is construction slated to begin?

Construction is slated to commence in Summer of 2019

6. What is the expected completion date of construction?

Approximately nine months following project commencement.

EXHIBIT 

City of Detroit

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority

Community Advisory Committee
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963?8839

February 27, 2019

The Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1340
Detroit, Michigan 48226

City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Board of Directors

500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Recommendation for Approval of the Harmonie Social Club Brownfield Redevelopment
Plan

Honorable Members of the Detroit City Council and the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority Board of Directors:

In accordance with the resolution of the Detroit City Council creating the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the ?Authority"), the Community Advisory Committee, at its meeting of
February 27, 2019, adopted a resolution approving the proposed Brownfield Plan for the
Harmonie Social Club Redevelopment and recommending adoption of this Brownfield Plan by the
Authority and City Council.

Please accept this letter of recommendation for approval from the Community Advisory
Committee on the Brownfield Plan for the Harmonie Social Club Redevelopment.

Very truly yours,



AllenhR'awls, Chairper
Community Advisory Committee to the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority

Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE

HARMONIE SOCIAL CLUB
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

Thursday, March 7, 2019
DEGC Offices
500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226
5:45 PM

In attendance were:
Jennifer Kanalos 
Brian Vosburg 
Graten Little (BASCO)
Joe Hooker (BASCO)

Mr. Vosburg called the public hearing to order at 5:45 PM.

No members of the general public were in attendance. There were no comments
received in favor of or in opposition to the plan.

Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 6:00 PM.

EXHIBIT 

Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839
CODE DBRA 19-03-267-02

HARMONIE SOCIAL CLUB BROWNFIELD REDEVELQPMENT PLAN

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381"), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the has been established by resolution of the City
Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City Council?) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of
environmentally distressed areas in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption
by City Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA,
the DBRA has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the Harmonie Social Club
Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan") to the Community Advisory Committee for its consideration
and comment and has solicited comments by the public by publication of notice stating that the
proposed Plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a
public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan applies; and

WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and
approved a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan by the DBRA and the
City Council as presented by the and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the
DBRA has considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to
request that City Council call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the
proposed Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the adoption of the
Brownfield Plan for the Harmonie Social Club Redevelopment Project is in keeping with the
purposes of Act 381 and recommends submittal of the Plan to City Council for approval.

2. The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the Plan constitutes a
?Qualifying Downtown Brownfield Project" under that certain Interlocal Agreement by and between
the DBRA and the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority.

3. The Board of Directors of the DBRA approves the Plan substantially in the form
attached hereto and on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.

4. Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified
copy of this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the City Council
call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the
Plan in accordance with Act 381.

5. That any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or
any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and
execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.

6. That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA,
in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such
acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed,
approved and ratified.

7. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions
of this resolution are rescinded.

March 13, 2019

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION CALLING A PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING
APPROVAL OF THE BROWNFIELD PLAN OF THE
CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE HARMONIE SOCIAL CLUB REDEVELOPMENT

 

The following preamble and resolution were offered by Member
and supported by Member 

 

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, Michigan (the ?City?) is
authorized by the provisions of Act 381, Public Acts of Michigan, 1996 (?Act 381?), to
create a brownfield redevelopment authority; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Act 381, the City Council of the City duly established the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the ?Authority?): and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Authority has
prepared a Brownfield Plan for the Harmonie Social Club Redevelopment (the ??Plan?) and
submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory Committee for review and comment; and

WHEREAS, after receipt of the recommendation of the Community Advisory
Committee to approve the, the Authority has approved the Plan and forwarded it to City
Council with a request for its approval; and

WHEREAS, prior to approval of the Plan, the City Council is required to hold a
public hearing in connection with consideration of the Plan pursuant to Act 381.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1. The City Council hereby acknowledges receipt of the Plan from the
Authority.

2. A public hearing is hereby called on Thursday, the 11th day of April, 2019 at
10:10 AM, prevailing Eastern Time, in the Council Chambers, 13th Floor of the Coleman
A. Young Municipal Center in the City to consider adoption by the City Council of a
resolution approving the Plan.

3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the
provisions of this resolution are rescinded.

4. The City Clerk is requested to submit three (3) certified copies of this
resolution to the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226.

AYES: Members

 

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

and wills\arts dbra backup\correspondence\city council public hearing noticesl2019 public hearing notices\Hannonie Club cc
reso setting hearing.docx

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION APPROVING BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE HARMOME SOCIAL CLUB REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381?), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority ("Authority?) has been established by resolution of the City
Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City") for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of eligible
properties in the City; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the Authority is authorized to develop and propose for adoption
by City Council a brownfield plan for one (1) or more parcels of eligible property; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the resolution establishing the Authority and the bylaws of the
Authority, the Authority has submitted a proposed brownfield plan for the Harmonie Social Club
Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan?); and

WHEREAS, the Authority submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory Committee for
consideration on February 27, 2019, per the provisions of the resolution establishing the Authority,
and a public hearing was conducted by the Authority on March 7, 2019 to solicit comments on the
proposed Plan; and

WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee recommended approval of the Plan on
February 27, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the Authority determined that the Plan constitutes a ?Qualifying Downtown
Brownfield Project? under that certain lnterlocal Agreement by and between the Authority and the

City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority, approved the Plan on March 13, 2019 and
fonivarded it to the City Council with a request for its approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the public hearing on the Plan was given in accordance
with Section 13 of Act 381; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing on the proposed Plan on April 11, 2019.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. Definitions. Where used in this Resolution the terms set forth below shall have the
following meaning unless the context clearly requires otherwise:

?Eligible Activities? or ?eligible activity" shall have the meaning described in Act 381.

?Eligible Property? means the property designated in the Plan as the Eligible Property, as
described in Act 381.

?Plan? means the Plan prepared by the Authority, as transmitted to the City Council by the
Authority for approval, copies of which Plan are on file in the office of the City Clerk.

?Taxing Jurisdiction? shall mean each unit of government levying an ad valorem property
tax on the Eligible Property.

2. Public Purpose. The City Council hereby determines that the Plan constitutes a
public purpose.

3. Best Interest of the Public. The City Council hereby determines that it is in the best
interests of the public to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in the City
to proceed with the Plan.

4. Review Considerations. As required by Act 381, the City Council has in reviewing
the Plan taken into account the following considerations:

Portions of the property designated in the Plan meets the definition of
Eligible Property, as described in Act 381, including consideration of the criteria of ?blighted" as
defined in Act 381;

The Plan meets the requirements set forth in section 13 of Act 381.

The proposed method of financing the costs of eligible activities is feasible
and the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.

The costs of eligible activities proposed are reasonable and necessary to
carry out the purposes of Act 381.

The amount of captured taxable value estimated to result from adoption of
the Plan is reasonable.

5. Approval and Adoption of Plan. The Plan as submitted by the Authority is hereby
approved and adopted. A copy of the Plan and all amendments thereto shall be maintained on
file in the City Clerk?s office.

6. Preparation of Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eligible Property.

Within 60 days of the adoption of this Resolution, the City Assessor shall
prepare the initial Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eligible Property in the Plan. The initial
Base Year Assessment Roll shall list each Taxing Jurisdiction levying taxes on the Eligible
Property on the effective date of this Resolution and the amount of tax revenue derived by each
Taxing Jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the Eligible Property, excluding millage Specifically
levied for the payment of principal and interest of obligations approved by the electors or
obligations pledging the unlimited taxing power of the local governmental unit.

The City Assessor shall transmit copies of the initial Base Year Assessment
Roll to the City Treasurer, County Treasurer, Authority and each Taxing Jurisdiction which will
have Tax Increment Revenues captured by the Authority, together with a notice that the Base

Year Assessment Roll has been prepared in accordance with this Resolution and the Plan
approved by this Resolution.

7. Preparation of Annual Base Year Assessment Roll. Each year within 15 days
following the final equalization ofthe Eligible Property, the City Assessor shall prepare an updated
Base Year Assessment Roll. The updated Base Year Assessment Roll shall show the information
required in the initial Base Year Assessment Roll and, in addition, the Tax Increment Revenues
for each Eligible Property for that year. Copies of the annual Base Year Assessment Roll shall be
transmitted by the Assessor to the same persons as the initial Base Year Assessment Roll,
together with a notice that it has been prepared in accordance with the Plan.

8. Establishment of Project Fund; Approval of Depositary. The Authority shall
establish a separate fund for the Eligible Property subject to this Plan, which shall be kept in a
depositary bank account or accounts in a bank or banks approved by the Treasurer of the City.
All moneys received by the Authority pursuant to the Plan shall be deposited in the Project Fund
for the Eligible Property. All moneys in the Project Fund and earnings thereon shall be used only
in accordance with the Plan and Act 381.

9. Use of Moneys in the Proiect Fund. The moneys credited to the Project Fund and
on hand therein from time to time shall be used annually to first make those payments authorized
by and in accordance with the Plan and any development agreement governing such payments
and then to the Local Site Remediation Revolving Fund, as authorized by Act 381:

10. Return of Surplus Funds to Taxinq Jurisdictions. The Authority shall return all
surplus funds not deposited in the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund proportionately to the Taxing
Jurisdictions.

11. Payment of Tax Increment Revenues to Authority. The municipal and the county
treasurers shall, as ad valorem and specific local taxes are collected on the Eligible Property, pay
the Tax Increment Revenues to the Authority for deposit in the Project Fund. The payments shall
be made not more than 30 days after the Tax Increment Revenues are collected.

12. Disclaimer. By adoption of this Resolution and approval of the Plan, the City
assumes no obligation or liability to the owner, developer, lessee or lessor of the Eligible Property
for any loss or damage that may result to such persons from the adoption of this Resolution and
Plan. The City makes no guarantees or representations as to the determinations of the
appropriate state officials regarding the ability of the Authority to capture tax increment revenues
from the State and local school district taxes for the Plan.

13. Repealer. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the
provisions of this resolution be and the same hereby are rescinded.

14. The City Clerk is requested to submit four (4) certified copies of this Resolution to
the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226

AYES: Members

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council Resolutions\2019 City Council Resolutions\Harmonie Club CC resolution.docx

 
1-4.4.

Elli-LE! 511:1? 111193?

Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

March 14, 2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Broadway Lofts Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Dear Honorable Council Members:

The enclosed Brownfield Plan for the Broadway Lofts Redevelopment Project (the "Plan") (Exhibit A), was
submitted by the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority Board (the to the Community
Advisory Committee (the The Plan was considered and reviewed by the CAC at its February 27,
2019 meeting and a public hearing was held by the DBRA on March 7, 2019 to solicit public comments.
The Committee's communication to the City Council and the DBRA, dated February 27, 2019 (Exhibit B),
recommending approval of the Plan, including the minutes of the public hearing held by the DBRA, are
enclosed for the City Council's consideration.

On March 13, 2019, the DBRA adopted a resolution (Exhibit C) approving the Plan and authorizing the
submission of a copy of its resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the Detroit
City Council call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions to approve the Plan in
accordance with Act 381.

The Plan is now presented to the City Council for approval. The Detroit City Council will, after publication
of the notices, hold a public hearing on the Plan. After the public hearing, the City Council shall determine
whether the Plan constitutes a public purpose and, if so, may approve or reject the Plan or approve it with
modifications.

Project Introduction
Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC, a subsidiary of Basco of Michigan, Inc., is the project developer (the

?Developer") for the Plan which entails the conversion of three parcels into a single multistory building,
featuring two retail spaces on the ground level and residential apartments above. Apartment
accommodations will include studio, 1-bedroom and 2-bedroom layouts. In addition, the Plan will feature
alleyway improvements to serve as a community gathering space. It is currently estimated that 34
temporary construction jobs and 1 FTE job will be created as a result of this project.

The total investment is estimated to be $11.9 million. The Developer is requesting $1,127,450.00 in 
reimbursement.

Property Subject to the Plan

The eligible property (the "Property") consists of three (3) parcels located at 1320, 1322 and 1332 Broadway
on the eastern side of Detroit's Central Business District in the Paradise Valley neighborhood, bounded by
an alley to the north, the property line of 1314 Broadway to the east, Broadway Street to the south, and the
property line of 1344 Broadway Street to the west.

 

Honorable City Council
March 14, 2019
2

Basis of Eligibility

The Property is considered ?eligible property" as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because the Property
was previously utilized for a commercial and residential purpose; it is located within the City of Detroit.
a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and the Property is determined to be a historic
resource as defined by Act 381.

Eliqible Activities and Proiected Costs

The "eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered "eligible activities"
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include pre-approved activities, demolition, asbestos
activities, infrastructure improvements, site preparation and preparation and implementation of Brownfield
Plan and/or 381 Work Plan. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the
development of the Property and will be financed solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible
for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence
in the summer of 2019 and will be completed within 10 months.

Tax Increment Financing Capture

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.

COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. Environmental Assessments $6,500.00
2. Demolition $300,000.00
3. Lead and Asbestos Activities $10,000.00
4. Infrastructure Improvements $365,000.00
5. Site Preparation $278,000.00
6. Brownfield Plan Act 381 Work Plan $25,000.00
7. Contingency $142,950.00
Total Reimbursement to Developer $1,127,450.00
8. Authority Administrative Costs $145,765.00
9. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund $165.572.00
10. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund $82,701.00
TOTAL Estimated Costs $1,521,488.00

 

 

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.

Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation Act (OPRA) Tax Abatement.

Reguest
The DBRA is respectfully requesting the following actions from the City Council:

March 19 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D), setting the Broadway Lofts Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan public hearing, as approved by the Planning and Economic Development
Standing Committee Chair and the City of Detroit Clerk, for April 11, 2019 at 10:25 AM in the
Council Chambers, 13"1 Floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, located at 2
Woodward Avenue, Detroit. Michigan.

 

Honorable City Council
March 14, 2019
3

ADri 11.2019, 10:05 AM
Discussion with taxing jurisdictions regarding the fiscal impact of the Plan.

 

April 11. 2019, 10:25 AM
Public Hearing at City Council's Planning and Economic Development Standing Committee
concerning the Broadway Lofts Brownfield Redevelopment Plan.

Agril16,2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution approving the Broadway Lofts Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan (Exhibit E).

Sincerel 
.1 
Phil fa?/P 


Jennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

 
    

0 City Clerk
Marcel Todd
Irvin Corley, Jr.
David Whitaker
Derrick Headd
Marcel Hurt
DeAndree Watson
Kevin Johnson
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls
Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington

KzlArt's And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council packet cover Ietters\2019 Cover Letters\Broadway Lofts
Brown?eld Plan CC Transmittal Letter.docx

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPIVIENT AUTHORITY

BROWNFIELD PLAN FOR THE
BROADWAY LOFTS DEVELOPMENT
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Prepared by:

Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC
Basco of Michigan, Inc.

607 Shelby Street #400

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Contact Person: Joe Hooker
Phone: 313-502-5117
i1100kcrf?lbasconii.com

PM Environmental

4080 West Eleven Mile Road

Berkley, Michigan 48072

Contact Person: Jessica DeBone; Phone: 313-328-5297; 
Contact Person: Elizabeth Masserang; Phone: 248-414-144; masserangr?rnmeiw.com

February 20, 2019

II.



CITY OF DETROIT
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
BROWN FIELD PLAN

TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

GENERAL PROVISIONS

A.

J.

K.

Description of Eligible Property

Basis of Eligibility

Summary of Eligible Activities

Estimate of Captured Taxable Value and Tax
Increment Revenues; Impact of Tax Increment

Financing on Taxing Jurisdictions

Plan of Financing; Maximum Amount
Of Indebtedness

Duration of Plan
Effective Date of Inclusion

Displacement/Relocation of Individuals
On Eligible Property

Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF)
Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund

Developer?s Obligations, Representations and Warrants

ATTACHMENTS

A.

B.

C.

D.

Site Map
Legal Description(s)
Project Description

Supportive Letters

11-2

11-3

11-3

11-4

11-5

11?6

11-7

11-7

11?7

11-7

11-7

A-l

B-l

C-l

D-l

E. Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities E?l
F. TIF Tables F-l
G. Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents G?l

K. Incentive Chart H-l

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

I. INTRODUCTION

 

In order to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed and blighted areas
within the boundaries of the City of Detroit, Michigan (the ?City?), the City has established
the City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (the pursuant to
Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended (?Act 381?).

The primary purpose of this Brown?eld Plan (?Plan?) is to promote the redevelopment of
and private investment in certain ?brown?eld? properties within the City. Inclusion of
property within this Plan will facilitate ?nancing of environmental response and other
eligible activities at eligible properties and will also provide tax incentives to eligible
taxpayers willing to invest in revitalization of eligible sites, commonly referred to as
?brown?elds.? By facilitating redevelopment of brown?eld properties, this Plan is
intended to promote economic growth for the bene?t of the residents of the City and all
taxing units located within and bene?ted by the DBRA.

This Plan is intended to apply to the eligible property identi?ed in this Plan and, if tax
increment revenues are proposed to be captured from that eligible property, to identify and
authorize the eligible activities to be funded by such tax increment revenues.

This Plan is intended to be a living document, which may be modi?ed or amended in
accordance with the requirements of Act 381, as necessary to achieve the purposes of Act
381. The identi?cation or designation of a developer or proposed use of the eligible
property shall not necessitate an amendment to this Plan, affect the application of this Plan
to the eligible property or impair the rights available to the DBRA under this Plan. The
applicable sections of Act 381 are noted throughout the Plan for reference purposes.

This Plan describes the project to be completed (see Attachment C) and contains all the
information required by Section 13(2) of Act 381.

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

II. GENERAL PROVISIONS

A. Description of the Eligible Property (Section 13 (2)011] and the Project

The property comprising the eligible property consists of three (3) parcels. All three (3)
parcels, commonly known as, 1322, 1326, and 1332 Broadway Street are considered a
historic resource. The aforementioned parcels and all tangible personal property located
thereon will comprise the eligible property and is referred to herein as the ?Property.?

Attachment A includes a site map of the Property. The Property is located on the eastern
side of Detroit?s Central Business District in Paradise Valley and is bounded by an alley to
the north, the property line of 1314 Broadway to the East, Broadway Street to the south,
and the property line of 1344 Broadway Street to the west.

Attachment provides the individual legal descriptions for the eligible property.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address Tax ID Owner

1322 Broadway Street 01004005 Broadway Detroit Properties,
LLC

1326 Broadway Street 01004006 City of Detroit Downtown
Development Authority

1332 Broadway Street 01004007 City of Detroit Downtown
Development Authority

 

Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC is the project developer (?Developer?) and is an af?liate
of BASCO of Michigan, Inc. (BASCO). The 1322 Broadway Street property is currently
owned by the Developer, while 1326 and 1332 Broadway Street properties are currently
owned by the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority. It is anticipated that the
developer will acquire the remaining two parcels in the summer/early fall of 2019, under a
purchase and development agreement that is currently being reviewed for revision. The
project will include the combination of the three parcels and buildings into a single parcel
and single multistory building, featuring two retail spaces on the ground level and
residential apartments above. It is anticipated that the residential component of the project
will include studio, 1 bedroom and 2 bedroom layouts. In addition, the project will feature
alleyway improvements to serve as a community gathering space. It is currently anticipated
that construction will begin in the summer of 2019 and eligible activities will be completed
within ten (10) months, which is the estimated construction period. The project description
provided herein is a summary of the proposed development at the time of the adoption of
the Plan. The actual development may vary from the project description provided herein,
without necessitating an amendment to this Plan, so long as such variations are not material
and arise as a result of changes in market and/or ?nancing conditions affecting the project
and/or are related to the addition or immaterial removal of amenities to the project. All
material changes, as determined by DBRA in its sole discretion, to the project description
are subject to the approval of the DBRA staff and shall be consistent with the overall nature
of the proposed development, its proposed public purpose, and the purposes of Act 381.

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Attachment provides a description of the project to be completed at the Property (the
?Project?) and Attachment includes letters of support for the Project.

B. Basis of Eligibilitv (Section 13 (M) and Sectig? (on

The Property is considered ?eligible property? as de?ned by Act 381, Section 2 because
the Property was previously utilized for a commercial and residential purpose; it is
located within the City of Detroit, a quali?ed local governmental unit under Act 381; and
the Property is determined to be a historic resource as de?ned by Act 381.

The Property is within the Broadway Avenue Historic District (the ?District?). The District
is comprised of eleven (1 1) commercial buildings located in the block of Broadway Avenue
between Gratiot Avenue on the southeast and East Grand River Avenue on the northwest.
The District was entered into the National Register of Historic Places on July 1, 2004.

C. Summary of Eligible Activities and Description of Costs [Section 13 
The ?eligible activities? that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
?eligible activities? as de?ned by Section 2 of Act 381, because they include demolition,
asbestos abatement, infrastructure improvements, site preparation activities ,and the
preparation and implementation of a brown?eld plan and 381 work plan.

A summary of the eligible activities and the estimated cost of each eligible activity intended
to be paid for with tax increment revenues (as de?ned by Section 2(ss) of Act 381) from
the Property are shown in the table attached hereto as Attachment E. The eligible activities
described in Attachment are not exhaustive. Subject to the approval of DBRA staff in
writing, additional eligible activities may be carried out at the Property, without requiring
an amendment to this Plan, so long as such eligible activities are permitted by Act 381 and
the cost of such eligible activities does not exceed the total costs stated in Attachment E.

Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the DBRA, all eligible activities shall commence
within eighteen (18) months after the date the governing body approves this Plan and be
completed within three (3) years after approval of the Michigan Strategic Fund work plan,
if applicable, or three (3) years after execution of the Reimbursement Agreement (as that
term is de?ned below). Any long-term monitoring or operation and maintenance activities
or obligations that may be required will be performed in compliance with the terms of this
Plan and any documents prepared pursuant to this Plan.

The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities incurred by it as
described below. Some eligible activities may commence prior to the adoption of this Plan
and to the extent permitted by Act 381 shall be reimbursable pursuant to the
Reimbursement Agreement. Tax increment revenue generated by the Property will be
captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible activities completed
on the Property pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement Agreement to be executed by
the DBRA and the Developer after approval of this Plan (the ?Reimbursement
Agreement?), to the extent permitted by Act 381. In the event this Plan contemplates the
capture of tax increment revenue derived from ?taxes levied for school operating purposes?
(as de?ned by Section 2(uu) of Act 381 and hereinafter referred to as ?School Taxes?), the

3

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Developer acknowledges and agrees that obligation to reimburse the Developer
for the cost of eligible activities with tax increment revenue derived from Local Taxes, or
Speci?c Taxes that are considered Local Taxes, (as these capitalized terms are de?ned by
Act 381) is contingent upon: the Developer receiving at least the initial applicable work
plan approvals by the Michigan Strategic Fund and the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality, as may be required pursuant to Act 381, within 180 days after the
date this Plan is approved by the governing body, or such other date as the DBRA may
agree to in writing or (ii) the Developer providing the DBRA with evidence, satisfactory
to DBRA, that the Developer has the ?nancial means to complete the project without the
capture of, and subsequent reimbursement with, the contemplated School Taxes.

The costs listed in Attachment are estimated costs and may increase or decrease
depending on the nature and extent of environmental contamination and other unknown
conditions encountered on the Property. The actual cost of those eligible activities
encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from tax increment revenues
of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the Reimbursement
Agreement. No costs of eligible activities will be quali?ed for reimbursement except to
the extent permitted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Reimbursement
Agreement and Act 381. The Reimbursement Agreement and this Plan will dictate the
total cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement, provided that the total
cost of eligible activities subject to payment or reimbursement under the Reimbursement
Agreement shall not exceed the estimated costs set forth in Attachment E. As long as the
total costs are not exceeded, line item costs of eligible activities may be adjusted after the
date this Plan is approved by the governing body, to the extent the adjustments do not
violate the terms of the approved MDEQ or MSF work plan.

D. Estimate of Captured T_ai_rable Value and Tax Increment Revenues (Section
Beginning Date of Capture ei'Tax Increment Revenues (Section 
Impact nfTax Increment Financing en Taxing Jurisdictions [Section 

This Plan anticipates the capture of tax increment revenues to reimburse the Developer for
the costs of eligible activities under this Plan in accordance with the Reimbursement
Agreement. Subject to Section 13(b)(16) of Act 381, a table of estimated tax increment
revenues to be captured is attached to this Plan as Attachment F.

Tax increments are projected to be captured and applied to reimbursement of eligible
activity costs and payment of DBRA administrative and operating expenses, (ii) make
deposits into the State Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund, and make deposits into the
Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund, as follows:

 

 

Reimbursements Admin. Local
Costs Costs Brown?eld Revolving
Bin?d
School Operating Tax $966,386 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00
State Education Tax $161,064 $0.00 $165,572 $0.00
County (combined) $0.00 $25,482 $0.00 $14,517
County Public Safety $0.00 $24,154 $0.00 $13,761

4

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Wayne County Parks $0.00 $6,331 $0.00 $3,607
RESA Enhancement $0.00 $600 $0.00 $0.00

RESA $0.00 $89,197 $0.00 $50,816
TOTALS $1,127,450 $145,765 $165,572 $82,701

In addition, the following taxes are projected to be generated but shall not be captured during
the life of this Plan:

City Debt 282,913
School Debt and Judgment 525,411
Wayne County DIA 8,083
Wayne County Zoo 4,042

Total 820,449

In no event shall the duration of this Plan exceed thirty-?ve (35) years following the date
of the governing body?s resolution approving this Plan, nor shall the duration of the tax
capture exceed the lesser of the period authorized under subsection (3) and (5) of Section
13 of Act 381 or 30 years. Further, in no event shall the beginning date of the capture of
tax increment revenues be later than five (5) years after the date of the governing body?s
resolution approving this Plan.

The Developer has applied or will apply for a property tax abatement under the Obselete
Property Rehabilitation Act, PA 146 of 2000, as amended. If approved, the abatement will
reduce the property tax obligations of the Property for the periods applicable under the
abatement certi?cate, thereby reducing the amount of tax increment revenue available
pursuant to this Plan.

E. Plan of Financing [Section Maximum Amount (Section


The eligible activities are to be ?nanced solely by the Developer. The DBRA will
reimburse the Developer for the cost of approved eligible activities, but only from tax
increment revenues generated from the Property. No advances have been or shall be made
by the City or the DBRA for the costs of eligible activities under this Plan.

All reimbursements authorized under this Plan shall be governed by the Reimbursement
Agreement. The inclusion of eligible activities and estimates of costs to be reimbursed in
this Plan are intended to authorize the DBRA to fund such reimbursements and does not
obligate the DBRA or the City to fund any reimbursement or to enter into the
Reimbursement Agreement providing for the reimbursement of any costs for which tax
increment revenues may be captured under this Plan, or which are permitted to be
reimbursed under this Plan. The amount and source of any tax increment revenues that
will be used for purposes authorized by this Plan, and the terms and conditions for such
use and upon any reimbursement of the expenses permitted by this Plan, will be provided
solely under the Reimbursement Agreement contemplated by this Plan.

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Unless otherwise agreed upon by the Developer, the DBRA, and the State of Michigan, the
DBRA shall not incur any note or bonded indebtedness to ?nance the purposes of this Plan.

Reimbursements under the Reimbursement Agreement shall not exceed the cost of Eligible
Activities permitted under this Plan.

The Developer has also applied or will apply for a Michigan Community Revitalization
Program (CRP) loan. If the Developer is awarded the CRP loan or any other grant or
conditional loan, the Developer acknowledges and agrees that any activities funded by a
grant or conditional loan shall be ineligible for reimbursement under this Plan and shall not
be included in any reimbursement requests to DBRA by or on behalf of the Developer.
However, any loans awarded under the CRP or from other governmental agencies/sources
such as MDEQ or US EPA that the Developer is required to unconditionally repay shall be
eligible for reimbursement under the Plan, subject to the Reimbursement Agreement.

F. Durati_og ofPlan (Section 

Subject to Section 13b(16) of Act 381, the beginning date of capture of tax increment
revenues for each eligible property shall occur in accordance with the Tax Increment
Financing (TIF) table described in Exhibit F. In no event, however, shall this Plan extend
beyond the maximum term allowed by Section 13(2)(f) of Act 381 for the duration of this
Plan.

Furthermore, this Plan, or any subsequent amendment thereto, may be abolished or
terminated in accordance with Section 14(8) of Act 381 in the event of any of the following:

a. The governing body may abolish this Plan (or any subsequent amendment
thereto) when it ?nds that the purposes for which this Plan was established have been
accomplished.

b. The governing body may terminate this Plan (or any subsequent amendment
thereto) if the project for which eligible activities were identi?ed in this Plan (or any
subsequent amendment thereto) fails to occur with respect to the eligible property for at
least two (2) years following the date of the governing body resolution approving this Plan
(or any subsequent amendment thereto), provided that the governing body ?rst does both
of the following: gives 30 days? written notice to the Developer at its last known address
by certi?ed mail or other method that documents proof of delivery attempted; and (ii)
provides the Developer with an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting.

Notwithstanding anything in this subsection to the contrary, this Plan (or any subsequent
amendment thereto) shall not be abolished or terminated until the principal and interest on
bonds, if any, issued under Section 17 of Act 381 and all other obligations to which the tax
increment revenues are pledged have been paid or funds suf?cient to make the payment
have been identi?ed or segregated.

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

C. Effective Date of Inclusion in Brownfield Plan
The Property will become a part of this Plan on the date this Plan is approved by the
governing body.

H. DisnlaeementfReloeation of Individuals on Eligible l?ropertv {Section 
There are no persons or businesses residing on the eligible property and no occupied
residences will be acquired or cleared, therefore there will be no displacement or relocation
of persons or businesses under this Plan.

1. Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (Section 8; Section 

The DBRA has established a Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund (LBRF). The LBRF will
consist of all tax increment revenues authorized to be captured and deposited in the 
as speci?ed in Section 13(5) of Act 381, under this Plan and any other plan of the DBRA.
It may also include funds appropriated or otherwise made available from public or private
sources.

The amount of tax increment revenue authorized for capture and deposit in the LBRF is
currently estimated at $50,816. All funds, if any, deposited in the LBRF shall be used in
accordance with Section 8 of Act 381.

J. Brown?eld Redevelopment Fund (Section 8a: Section 

The DBRA shall pay to the Department of Treasury at least once annually an amount equal
to 50% of the taxes levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to
211.906, that are captured under this Plan for up to the ?rst twenty-?ve (25) years of the
duration of capture of tax increment revenues for each eligible property included in this
Plan. If the DBRA pays an amount equal to 50% of the taxes levied under the state
education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to 211.906, on a parcel of eligible property to
the Department of Treasury under Section 13b(14) of Act 381 the percentage of local taxes
levied on that parcel and used to reimburse eligible activities for the Project under this Plan
shall not exceed the percentage of local taxes levied on that parcel that would have been
used to reimburse eligible activities for the Project under this Plan if the 50% of the taxes
levied under the state education tax, 1993 PA 331, MCL 211.901 to 211.906, on that parcel
were not paid to the Department of Treasury under Section 13b(14) of Act 381.

K. Develolier?s Obligations. Representations and Warrants

The Developer and its af?liates shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances,
executive orders, or other regulations imposed by the City or any other properly constituted
governmental authority with respect to the Property and shall use the Property in
accordance with this Plan.

The Developer, at its sole cost and expense, shall be solely responsible for and shall fully
comply with all applicable federal, state, and local relocation requirements in implementing
this Plan.

The Developer represents and warrants that a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
Attached hereto as Attachment is the City of Detroit?s Department of

7

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental acknowledgement of its receipt of the
Phase I BSA.

The Developer further represents and warrants that the Project does not and will not include
a City of Detroit Land Bank Authority, Wayne County Land Bank Authority or State of
Michigan Land Bank ?nancing component.

Except as otherwise agreed to by the DBRA, any breach of a representation or warranty

contained in this Plan shall render the Plan invalid, subject to the Developer?s reasonable
opportunity to cure as described in the Reimbursement Agreement.

#3708938 v9

Exhibit A
Broadway Lo?s Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENTS

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT A

Site Map

Parcel Map

 

1326 Broadway

1322 Broadway

 

 

131,128

July 18. 2017

0.04 mi

0.02

0.01

 

0.04

0.08 

0.02

Sources- Esri HERE. DeLorme. lniermap.incrementPCorp.

GEBCO, USGS. FAO. NPS. NRCAN, GeoBase. IGN, Kadasier NL,

Ordnance Survey. Esri Japan. METI. Esri China (Hong Kong).
5\v1sstopo, OpenSlreetMap contributors, and the GIS

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Legal Descriptions of Eligible Property to which the Plan Applies

Legal Description 1322 Broadway Street, Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan:
Parcel: 01004005

NE BROADWAY 30.LAND IN FRONT PLAT OF SEC 9
GOVERNOR JUDGES PLAN L34 P552 DEEDS, 1/56 30.65 110

Legal Description 1326 Broadway Street, Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan:
Parcel: 01004006

NE BROADWAY LAND IN FRONT PLAT OF SEC 9
GOVERNOR JUDGES PLAN L34 P552 DEEDS, 1/56 20 110

Legal Description 1332 Broadway Street, Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan:
Parcel: 01004007

NE BROADWAY 45.LAND IN FRONT PLAT OF SEC 9
GOVERNOR 8: JUDGES PLAN L34 P552 DEEDS, 1/56 45.65 110

Exhibit A
Broadway Lo?s Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Project Description

Broadway Lofts Development
1322, 1326, 1332 Broadway Street

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Development Team and Company Synopsis

Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC (Developer) is an affiliate of Basco of Michigan
(Basco). Basco, along with its group companies, is a local property development and
management firm founded in 2001 by Roger Basmajian. Basco?s focus is on investing
and redeveloping properties in established neighborhoods in Southeastern Michigan to
transform neglected and underutilized properties into new and creative uses. Basco?s
redevelopment work began in the walkable communities of Royal Oak, MI and Ferndale,
MI. Between the Royal Oak and Ferndale, Basco has redeveloped approximately
100,000 square feet of retail, mixed use and office space.

Basco?s ultimate goal was to become involved in the redevelopment of Detroit's beautiful,
but neglected, buildings and to slowly bring vibrancy and diversity to Detroit?s
communities. In 2013, Basco purchased The First State Bank property at 751 Griswold
Street and embarked on its first Detroit project. Since, Basco has redeveloped the
property at 60? Shelby back to a vibrant office building and is underway with construction
at 220 West Congress. To date, Basco has purchased multiple properties in and around
Downtown Detroit totaling of approximately 350,000 sq. feet. Each project consists of
planned rehabilitations that seek to preserve the historical integrity of the buildings and
the culture and aesthetics of the surrounding areas.

The development team has selected MIG Construction as the General Contractor and
Hamilton Anderson as the architect who are both Detroit based.

Project Synopsis

The Developer intends to renovate three
adjoining three?story, commercial buildings
located in Detroit's Central Business District
(CBD), Paradise Valley Neighborhood and
the Broadway Avenue Historic District. The
three buildings have been used for a variety
of general office and/or retail purposes. Most
recently, these buildings have served as an
art design studio, liquor store, architectural
offices, and residential lofts.

 

    

The eastern building (1322 Broadway Street)
totals 10,071 square feet and was -
constructed in approximately 1913. The central building (1326 Broadway Street) totals
5,563 square feet and was constructed in approximately 1900. It has been vacant for
approximately eight years. Lastly, assessing records document the western building
(1332 Broadway Street) totals 15,090 square feet, was constructed in approximately
1919, and has been vacant for approximately five years.

Attachment 
Page 1

The project will convert three parcels into a single multistory
building for retail and residential use, with a two or three story
planned addition. The Broadway Lofts will feature two retail
spaces on the ground level with a total of 7,219 square feet,
a letter of intent has been executed for a restaurant to fill one
of the spaces. Residential apartments will occupy the stories
above, totaling at least approximately 28,000 square feet.
Apartment accommodations will create an estimated 36 units,
offering studio, 1 bedroom, and 2-bedroom layouts. Twenty
percent of the residential units will be reserved as affordable
units at 80% Area Median Income (AMI).

In addition, the Broadway Lofts Development will feature
alleyway improvements to serve as a community gathering
space. The space will include artfully crafted lighting, murals
and public seating areas with raised bed landscaping. Pavers
and signage will complete the alley that will be accessible to
the public creating an entertainment destination.

The redesign of the building incorporates essential
considerations specific to modern urban living. The
rehabilitation of the property also includes the repair or
replacement of the deteriorated and/or damaged plaster,
masonry, brick and stone. Particular attention will being given
to the preservation of the historic nature of the property when
economically feasible by ensuring that any damaged
decorative details will be replaced with material consistent
with the current profile, finish and color.

Upon completion, this project will bring historic and
functionally obsolete buildings back to productive use,
addressing the growing demand for residential and retail
space within downtown Detroit, and will further catalyze
economic development in the area.

Project Investment Estimates

Capital Cost Total Cost

Acquisition Cost 1,350,000
Renovation/RehabiIitation 8,580,000
Soft Costs 2,025,000
Total Capital Costs 11,955,000

Additional Financing Incentives Associated with the Redevelopment

Substantial investment is necessary to rehabilitate the existing building.

Attachment 
Page 2

 

 

In efforts to
grow this project into a viable, long?term redevelopment, the Developer will also apply

for secured a Michigan Community Revitalization Program (CRP) loan and an Obsolete
Property Rehabilitation (ORPA) Tax Abatement for the project.

CostIBenefit Analysis

The proposed project will help meet demand for retail and housing stock in Detroit?s CBD
and bring three buildings back to productive use after years of vacancy and neglect. This
redevelopment is also part of a larger effort involving the Detroit Downtown Development
Authority to bring vibrancy to the Paradise Valley Cultural and Entertainment District in
downtown. The district has been created to honor the legacy of the African-American
businesses that thrived here until urban renewal programs displaced neighborhood life.
The additional retail and residential apartments within the City will contribute to new
income tax for Detroit as a result of the creation of private investment. The project will
provide a retail and culinary destination and increase the density of the CBD to further
catalyze economic development in the surrounding area. Local businesses in the area
will benefit from an influx of new jobs into the area and an increase in spinoff consumer
spending.

On a short?term basis, approximately 34 construction jobs will be needed each day
during the estimated ten-month construction period. On a long-term basis the proposed
redevelopment associated with the project will create approximately 2 part time jobs (1
full time equivalent (FTE) job) directly by the developer. It is estimated that future tenants
will create an additional 97.5 FTE jobs. The development team will present at a skilled
trades task force meeting and utilized the Michigan Minority Contractors Association to
solicit bidders and garner opportunities to employ Detroit residents. if the D2D program
is available within the necessary timeframes, the developer will utilize this as an
additional procurement source. This has proven successful on Basco?s recent
developments of 220 West Congress, 607 Shelby and 751 Griswold.

The increase in tenant-based jobs within the building will increase City collected income
tax at a 1.2% rate for non-residents and 2.4% rate for Detroiters. This is estimated at
approximately $62,055 more than what is currently collected on an annual basis if 50%
of those employed are Detroit residents. This estimate is based on an average annual
salary estimate of $35,000 for the developer created job and the estimated 98.5 tenant
employees that are anticipated.

Following the expiration of the 12-year OPRA abatement, the building will deliver a
significant increase in tax revenue. Over time, successful redevelopment will have a
significant impact on Detroit?s CBD.

Attachment 
Page 3

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Supportive Letters

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 AVENUE SUITE 808

   

Demon, MICHIGAN 48226
(3l3) 224-1339 - I
CITY OF Demon (313) 224-13I0
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

February 21, 2019

Ms. Jennifer Kanalos

Authorized Agent

Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold, Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Broadway Lofts Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan
Dear Ms. Kanalos.

The Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (DBRA) has asked that the Planning and
Development Department to review and comment on the Harmonie Social Club Brown?eld
Redevelopment Plan (the ?Plan').

Broadway Detroit Properties. LLC is the project developer (?Developer?). The property in the Plan

is located on three parcels in downtown Detroit bounded by the building at 1314 Broadway on the
east. Broadway Street on the south, the building at 1344 Broadway on the west. and the alleyway
between Grand River Avenue and Gratiot Avenue on the north.

The Plan consists of the renovation of the historic buildings at 1322. 1326 and 1332 Broadway
Street which are part of the Broadway Avenue Historic District. The exterior will be rehabilitated to
preserve the historic features of the buildings. The adjacent streetscapes and public rights of ways
will be improved. The ground ?oor will be renovated for commercial retail use. The second and
third floors will be renovated and new-construction upper ?oors will be added to create studio. one
and two bedroom apartments.

The development will renovate and fulty reactivate signi?cant historic buildings in Paradise Valley
and the easteide of Downtown Detroit Total investment is estimated at $12 million.

The review for this brown?eld plan is complete and all comments have been forwarded to the
developer. No adverse comments were received. The Planning and Development Department
recommends approval of the brownfield plan as submitted.

Sincerely.

 

Maurice Cox

Director 

Planning and Development Department 
c: B. Vosburg

Board of Trustees 2018

   

,g usic iilail

CENTER FOR rill-1 PERFORMING ARTS

Chairman of the Board: Mr. Alex L. Parrish

Mr. John Ahee

Mr. Larry Aleblosu

Mrs. Margaret Allesee
Ms. Marsha L. Bass

Mr. Leland K. Bassett
Mrs. Tina Bassett

Mr. Derek T. Batts

Mr. Marvln Beatty

Mrs. Betty Brooks

Ms. Denise Brooks-Williams
Mr. Darrell Burks

Mr. William M. Carey
Dr. Vivian L. Carpenter
Mrs. Robin Cole

Dr. lulius V. Combs

Dr. Cara Curry

Mr. Ara I. Darakiian

Dr. David DiChiera

Mr. Dillp Dubey

Mr. Cameron B. Duncan
Ms Sue Ellen Elsenberg
Mr. David Ely

Ms. Linda Finkel

Mrs. lennlfer Fischer
Mr. Gordon Follmer

Mr. Marvin Frenkel
Mrs. Henrietta Fridhoim
Ms. Carol A. Friend

Mr. David Gaskin

Mr. Tom Goss

Ms. Tatiana D. Grant
Ms. Ann Hall

Mr. Elliott Hall

Mr. Rainy Hamilton, Ir.
Ms. joyce Hayes Glles
Mrs. Karen Healy

Mr. George Hill

Mr. Aaron Hodari

Mr. Gregory Jackson
Hon. Damon l. Keith
Mrs. Linda Klein

Mrs. Paulette Koffron
Mr. David I. Lochner
Mr. le ffrey McKelvey
Mr. Brian Mooney

Mrs. Savarior Moss-Service
Mr. William S. Noakes, Jr.
Dr. luiiette Okotie-Eboh
Mr. Vince Paul

Mrs. Peggy Pitt

Ms. Gall Perry-Mason
Mrs. Pattl Prowse

Mr. Luis Resto

Mr. Leon C. Richardson
Mr. Roy Roberts

Mr. Allen Ross

Ms. Michele A. Samuels
Mr. Thomas H. Seahron, lr.
Mr. James Settles, Ir.
Mr. Robert Shumake
Ms. Snow

Mr. Ricardo A. Solomon
Mr. Samuel Thomas

Mr. Wayne Thomas

Ms. Gretchen Valade
Mr. leffrey H. Vanneste
Mr. Shaun Wilson

Mr. William Patrick Young
Ms. Mary Lou Zieve

January 30, 2019

To Honorable City Council, City of Detroit,

On behalf of Music Hall Center, 1, Vince Paul, would like to express our full
support for Basco of Michigan?s (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322?
1332 Broadway and 311 East Grand River. We believe that both projects would
be great contributions to the emerging entertainment cultural historic district
known as Paradise Valley. We are confident that BASCO, who is headquartered
in Detroit and a seasoned developer of historical buildings, will be successful
with these adaptive re-use projects.

The Music Hall welcomes the energy and activity that Paradise Valley needs.
As a provider of programing and entertainment to this community, we believe
the proposed uses will compliment what already exists. The developments are
mixed?use, hospitality, retail, and residential. Even though the projects are
independent of each other, both projects will contribute to the density and
walkability of the neighborhood. As a result, there will be other economic
benefits to the neighborhood and the City as a whole.

As a Paradise Valley business and stakeholder, we are pleased to see the
direction of these projects. I look forward to these projects contributing to the

continued growth of the Paradise Valley community and greater Detroit.

Respectfully,

 

Vince Paul
President Artistic Director
Music Hall Center for the Performing Arts

350 Madison Avenue. Detroit. Michigan 48226 Tel: (313) 887-8500 Fax: (313) 887-8502

mzmusichailmg

HamiltonAnderson

February 1. 2019

Dear Members of the Detroit City Council:

On behalf of Hamilton Anderson Associates (HAA). ionld like to express my full support for Basco
of Michigan's (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322-1332 Broadway and 311 East Grand River. I
believe that both projects will be great contributions to the Paradise Valley Cultural Entertainment
District (PVCED). and that BASCO. a Detroit headquartered entity. will be successful with the adaptive

re-use of the existing buildings.

As current tenants ofthe district. HAA welcomes the proposed energy and activity to the area. and are
confident the developments will compliment what already exists. as well as what is to come. The
proposed programming calls for mixed?use. hospitality, retail and residential. all elements that are
needed to further revitalize the district. independently. both projects will contribute to the density
and walkability of the neighborhood. and as a result. there will be other economic benefits to the

neighborhood and the city as a whole.

As a longstanding PVCED business owner and stakeholder. lam pleased to see the direction ofthese
projects. and look forward to the development contributing to the continued growth of the PVCED

community and greater Detroit.

Respectfully.

  

milton. Jr.. FAIA. NOMA

Principal

1435 Randolph. Suite 200. Detroit. MI 48226 313 964 0270 I 313 964 0170 fax hamilton-anderson.com

 

January 30, 2019

To Honorable City Council, City of Detroit,

On behalf of Real Times Media the Michigan Chronicle, I, Hiram Jackson, would like to express ourfull
support for Basco of Michigan's (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322-1332 Broadway and 311
East Grand River. We believe that both projects would be great contributions to the emerging
entertainment cultural historic district known as Paradise Valley. We are confident that BASCO, who is
headquartered in Detroit and a seasoned developer of historical buildings, will be successful with these
adaptive re?use projects.

The Michigan Chronicle welcomes the energy and activity that Paradise Valley needs. As a provider of
news worthy journalism to this community, we believe the proposed uses will compliment what already
exists. The developments are mixed-use, hospitality, retail, and residential. Even though the projects are
independent of each other, both projects will contribute to the density and walkability ofthe
neighborhood. As a result, there will be other economic benefits to the neighborhood and the City as a
whole.

As a Paradise Valley business and stakeholder, we are pleased to see the direction of these projects. I
look forward to these projects contributing to the continued growth of the Paradise Valley community
and greater Detroit.

Respectfully,

L.

Hiram Jackson
Publisher CEO

Real Times Media

MICHIGAN
THEATRE

January 30, 2019

To Honorable City Council, City of Detroit,

On behalf of Michigan Opera Theatre, I, Patricia Walker, would like to express our
support for BASCO of Michigan?s (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322?1332
Broadway and 311 East Grand River. We believe that both projects would be great
contributions to the emerging entertainment cultural historic district known as
Paradise Valley.

The Michigan Opera Theatre welcomes the energy and activity that these Paradise
Valley developments would bring. As a provider of theatre and entertainment to this
community, we believe the proposed uses will compliment what already exists. The
developments are mixed-use, hospitality, retail, and residential. We believe that both
projects will contribute to the density and walkability of the neighborhood, and will
provide economic benefits to the neighborhood and the City as a whole.

As a Paradise Valley business and stakeholder, we are pleased to see the direction of
these projects. I look forward to these projects contributing to the continued growth
of the neighborhood, the community and greater Detroit.

Respectfully,


if}? . 4
M4 l-i/Mi

Patricia K. Walker
Chief Administrative Officer
Michigan Opera Theatre

1526 Broadway. Detroit, Michigan 48226 Phone 313-961-3500 Fax 313-237?3412 

January 30, 2019

To Honorable City Council, City of Detroit,

On behalf of La Casa Cigars Lounge, Maria Petrenko, would like to express our full support for Basco
of Michigan?s (BASCO) proposed projects located at 1322-1332 Broadway and 311 East Grand River. We
believe that both projects would be great contributions to the emerging entertainment cultural 
historic district known as Paradise Valley. We are confident that BASCO, who is headquartered in
Detroit and a seasoned developer of historical buildings, will be successful with these adaptive re-use
projects

The La Casa Cigars Lounge Theatre welcomes the energy and activity that Paradise Valley needs. As a
provider of entertainment and spirits to this community, we believe the proposed uses will compliment
what already exists. The developments are mixed-use, hospitality, retail, and residential. Even though
the projects are independent of each other, both projects will contribute to the density and walkability
of the neighborhood. As a result, there will be other economic benefits to the neighborhood and the
City as a whole.

As a Paradise Valley business and stakeholder, we are pleased to see the direction ofthese projects. I

look forward to these projects contributing to the continued growth of the Paradise Valley community
and greater Detroit.

Res pectfu lly,

Maria Petrenko

Title

La Casa Cigars Lounge

Exhibit A
Broadway Lo?s Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities Table

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

TIF Tables

 

 

Table 1: Eligible Activities Cost Estimates
Broadway Development

 

ItemIActivity

Total Request

MSF Act 381 Eligible
Activities

MDEQ Act 381 Eligible
Activities

 

Pre-Approved Activtles

 

Phase I ESA

2.000

69

2.000

 

Hazardous Materials Survey

69

4.500

60

4.500

 

Pre-Approved Activities Sub-Total

6.500

6,500

 

Demolition

 

Building Demolition Activities

300.000

300.000

 

Demolition Sub-Total

300.000

300.000

 

Asbestos and Lead Activities

 

Asbestos Abatement. Oversight. Air Monitoring and Reporting

10.000

10.000

 

Asbestos and Lead Activities Sub-Total



1 0.000



10.000

 

Infrastructure Improvements

 

Curb/GutterlSidewalk Improvements

45.000

45.000

 

Landscaping in ROW

70.000

70.000

 

Paving Public Alley Improvements

250.000

250.000

 

Infrastructure Sub-Total

wt?t? 

365.000

(#5969 9)

365.000

 

Site Preparation

 

Temporary Traf?c Control

16.000

16.000

 

Temporary Site Control (fencing. gates. signage andlor lighting)

22.000

22.000

 

Solid Waste Disposal

120.000

120.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Water)

21.000

21.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Sanitary)

12.000

12.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Storm)

10.000

10.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Electrical)

48,000

48.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Telephone)

13.000

13,000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Fiber)

10.000

10.000

 

Relocation of Active Utilities (Gas)

6,000

6.000

 

Site Preparatlon Sub-Total

9}

278.000

0}

278,000

 

Preparation of Brown?eld Plan and Act 381 Workplan

 

Brown?eld Plan Preparation

93

20.000

93

20. 000

 

Brown?eld Plan Implementation

5,000

69

5.000

 

 

Brown?eld Plan and Act 381 Workplan Sub-Total

 

 

25.000

 

 

25.000

 

 

 

15% Contin enc 

TIF Capture for Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund

142.950

32.701

142.950

 

Administrative Fee

145.765

 

 

State Brown?eld Fund

 

 

 

 

 

stoma/z

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


55 5 5951? GETS 000F111 
- - . 000:1: MBWUJGWM
mm mm mim?a?
5? sass use: 0030:: 1mm?:
00001 0000': mad-(E
mm
mm 5 mm r'ai?i Isa-'1 tsa?: 5 1:53": (hr: 9 11m 5 mu 5 054': 5 1m 5 nae-s ones-z Malamumwmm
. 
'Fn'Tr 5 mm 5 cm: 5011 000': 5120?: 5901 050'! 5 am 5 sm'z 1195'! 5 5:01 i EE 5 [pays chars (muyasmmaunm
000 00000 00002 :uawanuaquavrgj
vrzzo -.
as55.21, mm wanna-3mm
00:! 050': 5 1:new mpg-Juqndum
9111.t6: 5950 1595-0 Immunimkm
arm: 9 nz'sL ?r?st MEI. zot?et She?ll. us'u 5 Max. In'aL Iae'ss 559139 5 ?619 5 arms 000002 0000112 Imuomps
035222 was 5 555's: 5 tars: s' cii'irs m'ts $0125 I 5-5705 5 ram i ?s'as urns rum
5 ram a 3:31: 5 mm 3 Ei?' ?firmwas arr-'51 00009 moo-9 
'lzmu-Ill- MM mm
mm ?In!
zu'zw?z sn'nts'z w?m?z Lze?su'z 5 arm?: m?m'z nas'Isg'z zuz'us'z 5 across? 3 55:09:: 9 000'Ies'z ons'tus?z 
sta?aaz': m?sn?e zu?zn'e sn?ou'e zu'un?e 5 Retro: m?vm?: mm ms'tss?z m?tzs?z 5 mm 561'098?2 5 0051001 5 
vst?bzc'e 222'th ssa'asTE 5 urban Dis-root?s min: 5 96300! Dos'?z 5 '5 
nos'aw nos'm 005% 5 009m 5 nos?m 5 mm nos-aw act-rm nos-m 5 005?s? 5 005?s? 9 mm norm 5 
oos'm 005'?! oos'svt 005??: ms?avt 005'?: oos'strt 005'?: oas?an oos'm 005'va 005m 1 005'va 5 005's? 5 ahlwammu-za an.
2202 1:0: 2:0: IEOZ oeaz SZDZ 920: L30: 9:0: 5:02 vzoz no: :20: I202 310: JRAJEPLBIEJ
It I i a I I mum

mauldopua Lemma - uzignpino oases
swung amid?) anuanau matuanu  

m? "a mum-sum: puma-n

 

6101/12]!
2 332:!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

art'm 525T: Lat'ot 150'01. 5 Ess'ss 5 any 5 3067.9 5 50:15 5 ats?ss m'ss 000902 
5 Doom nont'o auznunuaaultz
as; 00on 0002-0 vmnumaatMI?M?
tog-r: on?: :52? 59 2a East" 5 22:: a comet 
3 mt: 0000!. 00001 maul:
?Inn-lam 
mm: man 5 099's! 5 urn?5'55?? (SW61: 5 mm 5 599?s! mm rm: 5 aces-s new; 
elit'YT. 3 EOE ?791.17. 9 95603 1:301? ?5 62.16? SUOF 5 5 33:21 
Faun as?: mu 0563 5 sun spare gpgp'g (mumsmunong-M
005 5 ?v - 0000'0 000091: 10: 0-713 
3701 I: 1.5.: 6501'0 691?0 weamncamm
?6?15 5 '5 5 VOTE 5 5 van: 5 [355-0 [ass-o Amesnuqnd Mum:
Isv'e 5 9w: net's 5 5w: 5 are 5 err: 5 son: 5 .1586'0 ?6361} Munogmm
L)
zu'm't 155'? "0'53 52:13 '5 own 5 at?: 5 same 5 ssru mm an: noun-v: uouu'vz lemmas
'Lso'ids't m'ss 1.9m; m?n' '5 um 5 mm mm assis? was: rare: moo-a? (mo-gt ?imam
seam-Er 5 am: 5 mm: 5 Eat-'0: 5 mm i an ?an SSW-I foams 00009 Hiram.
mm [?lm

rtv'?s?s ssn?mr's tso'tsv': m?snr?s set?oae?e m?sw?s Los?otE?E sst?st: 51:1":er wm-Mmulwamalaumwuu
na'LLu'I: WSWE lung's 5 2:91:51: 4; wt?asr?c 3531139: 9 5 Amour?imam:
mailman; HIE Win mm;
oos?e? oos'a? oos?nvt ous'avt 0051391 5 005'e? ous'svr ons'i'b': 005'?: anIIAalquuasea 
woz 650: 2:02 LEDZ 9:02 5502 no: :20: 123A Imam
1mm ?A-Mlqd
mm mm} nu: ma ?an-1 walla-m:

 

:umaaqqum - unilulm :4 0m
91mm: mmdej Baum luau?nu] x21

 

Tax increment Revenue
Reimbursement E-rtirnates
Basco of Michigan - Broadway Development

 

Developer
Maximum
Reimbursement

Propor?onality
(Enough 2021)

Total

Proportionality

Total

(from 2022)

School 81 Local

Taxes

Loni-Only Taxes-

Total

 

State

Local

 

100.00% 
0.00% 

 

1,127,450



 

5 1,127,450
5 .

 

TOTAL

 

 

MDEQ
MSF

 

0.58% 5
99 4296 

 

Vim

6.500
1.120.950

 

 

 

Total State Incremental Revenue 5
State Brown?eld Revolving Fund [50% 
State TIR Avallable [or Reimbursement



Total Local Incremental Revenue

ERA Administrative Fee (15% or max $100,000)
Du I cum Amman: rauva Fee Annaai Total
Deferred Administrative Fee Outstanding Balance
Local Avallable for Reimbursement

?Wt/1m?

Toulsuuatoalnn Available 
Beginning

Balance
1.1277431 



DEVELOPER
I 5

67,236
8,405
58,832

2,291
10,429
8,138
8,138

58.332

 

17051-519

mun-nun



5

57,944 5
8,493 5
59,451 5

om 

I?m" 

$49.03.!

5

W15





- a .,

 

 

70,848 5
8,856 5
61,992 5



00
"1
an

\a

70,111 5
8,764 5
61,347 5

mm

60,709

1,591
10,661

1, 69 1
10, 770

5 1,591 5
5
9,079 5

5

10,881 5-
9,189 ?5
52,991 5
- 5

43,801

inn-Alum
I:

cn_
in

51.347 5 61.992 

Md)

mmli 

Estimated Total
_Ye_ar5 of Plan:

71.592 5
9,949
62,643

72,343 5
9,043 5
53,300 



1,691
10,992
9,301
62, 292

1,591 5
11.105 5
9.414 5
71.705 5



?xn?nw

62.64! 5 63.300 5

23

luv-mule.
an

"l
on

ill-WW
no
H1
'1
at

73,569
5,234
54,535

1,591
11.334

5,543
90,875

?.85

 

mm: i1 639.101 5

575.116.!

510,501 I .5



Estimated Capture

Administrative Fees

145,765

 

State Revolving Fund

Local Brown?eld Revolving Fund

165,571
82,701

 


2:51
74,643 5
9,330 5
65,313 

 

mm?

1,691 
11,450 5
9,759 5
100,535 

- 



5 65,313 

5.

75,425
9,4 28
55,997

1,691
11,568
9,876
110,511

65,991

In!?



13
2033
76,215
9,5 27
66,688

17,904
14,115

106.724

1115!:

 

  



5 1.140550: 5

58.492

5

59.103 5

59,730 5

50.559 I 5 60.993 5 61.634 5

EZZBZES 62.935 .

63.5965

54.263 i 5

15.527



 

Stale 'l?u Heirnli men! I 3

53,432 I 5

59.108 5

59.730 5

50,359 I 5 50,151 - 

H.251 5 52.535 i

53,555 5

64.263

 

54,936 

?5,017

55.394

 

 

Local Tax Heimh urn-men641,634 - Total MSF Reimbursement Balance I 5

1.052.458

5

1.003349 5

9416.1.FIS

033.260 - 5 .

 

7mg: is

?9.35! . 5 635.416 5

571.820 5

507.558

. 4.
5 ?7.621 5

NEWS

?mill-H1-

310,701 

 

rm?mn ant farm

   

5m 13155090191153;

Jul?? 
Tau! M060 Enlargement Balance

 

Tammany-hum 

153.
13

5.351 

?ail


S.

5

5

3-4515
343-5
- 5


59.451 

546!

3

346-5



50,0}?

5
5

. 3

350:5
350 
- 5
5

354.5
35415

357.5
357 5
- 5 - 5
4.75655 

51.1.77! 5 51,95? 

33.5

- 5
4.99.5.5

35575
assls
- 5
15.95 5

02.64! J- 61? 5

373:5 5



L513

El. 615

1775
5 - 

.5 2.567 5

5 55.513 5

55.99?

?471??

 

LOCAL BROWNFIELD REVOLVING 
LBRF 
SmeTa: 
Local Yu Capture


 
 

Up to 0le ye: ra aluptmefnl Depmr? after eligible activitles are reimbursed. May be taken from DEC 81 Luca

ITIR only.

5


 

 

V1

 

Page 1 of 2
2/21/2019

Tax Increment Revenue
Reimbursement Estimates
Based of Michigan - Broadway Developnent

15 1'3 21 I: '1

Total State Incremental Revenue
Slate Brown?eld Revolving Fund [50% of 
Ste-leTIR An?ahle lnr? 

mm?

Total Local Incremental Revenue

BRA Administrative Fee (159?. or max $100,000)
Deferred Administrative Fee Annual Total
Deferred Administrative Fee Outstanding Balar
Local?! Available for Belmhursermn?t

u-muumm

Tntl'lSII'h I thalnunrh?i 

DEVELOPER
. 5

2034
77,013
9,627
67,3 86

?Bu'i



18,092
14, 266

102.898

min-amu-
.

67,336!-

77,819
9.7 27
68,091

18, 281
14,415

99,03 2





??1005?

78,633 
9,329 5
55,504 5
18.472
14.555

95.1 26

18,665
14, 718

91,179

em





80,285
10,03 6
70,249

18,860
14,872

87,190



19,057
2. 859

wmux

16,139 5

15M . 5

19,756
2,888

win-m.

16,368 5

1m:

19,4 57
1919 5

th-

16,539 5

15.53! 5

19,660 5
2,949 5

- 5
16,111 5

mm 5

19,865
2.980

16,885



1,324,572
165,572
1,159,001

228,467

82,701

1,2le

 

 

ml:



 

btnle Tax Reimhmmenl.

5

59.122

 

Ln-calTae H?mbunemcn'r

5

 

?mm?

Tina! 

243793'5

197.59? 5

12475-

?mm?

 

 

 

EUEQ mnmental mag

S?a'te Tar Reimbursement

 

 

335?s
seals

397:5
39715

?61

1101-

 

Loal Tall iteimhuraern?it
Tia-tat Balance

05mm?

5
1.415 I 5

4

Hill?

32]



in

 

5

LOCAL REVOLVING FUNI

LBHF Blunt-it! 
'5le. In tawure 
Local TaxCapdure 5
Cam 

U: in five years all taplul't' Inr Lil?F Dem?:



 

?7,356":


-

 

18,599

16452;!

- 5
13:59}
15ml:

- 5

15-111; 1.

H.771 

1545.2

 

13.1535

In

Luzdsn 


new: .


Page 2 of 2
2121/2019

Exhibit A
Broadway Lofts Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Acknowledgement and Other Environmental Documents

Attachment 

TO: THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FROM: DETROIT, BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING, AND ENVIRONMENTAL
DEPARTMENT

PROJECT: BROADWAY DETROIT PROPERTIES, LLC

DATE: February 22, 2019

The undersigned, from the City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety Engineering, and
Environmental Department acknowledges the receipt of the environmental documents listed below, which
have been submitted by Broadway Detroit Properties LLC, as developer, as part of its Brown?eld Plan
submittal to the Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority (DBRA), for the Broadway Detroit

Properties Development Project.

Phase I Environmental Site Assessment, pursuant to All Appropriate
Inquiry using American Society of Testing Materials (ASTM) Standard 1527?
13

Phase 11 Environmental Site Assessment, pursuant to ASTM Standard 1903 (if
appropriate)

Baseline Environmental Assessment, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan ?s Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, MCL 324.20101 et seq. (if
appropriate).

Due Care Plan, pursuant to Part 201 of Michigan?s Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act, MCL 324.2010] et seq. (if appropriate).

Based upon its review of the above environmental documents and the representations of
the developer, the City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety Engineering, and Environmental Department agrees
with the environmental consultant that there are no Recognized Environmental Concerns associated with
the site and no further investigation of the site is warranted. The properties would qualify only as a
blighted property or as functionally obsolete. The Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental
Department has determined that the documents received for this project satisfy the DBRA Guidelines.

City of Detroit, Buildings, Safety
Engineering, and Environmental
Department

By: MW 'v

Its: 

 

Exhibit A
Broadway Lo?s Development
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 

Incentive Information

Incentive Information Chart: 1322. 1326. 1332 Broadway Street, Detroit

 

Project Type Incentive Type Investment Amount District

 

Commercial Brownfield/Obsolete Property $8.6 Million Hard Cost Investment CBD
Rehabilitation Tax $12.0 Million Total Investment
Abatement

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jobs Available

 

Construction Post Construction

 

Professional Non-Professional Skilled Labor Non-Skilled Labor Professional Non-Professional Skilled Labor Non-Skilled Labor

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

estimated that approximately 97.5 new permanentjobs will be created by the tenants
1. What is the plan for hiring Detroiters?

The development team will present at a skilled trades task force meeting and utilized the Michigan Minority Contractors Association to
solicit bidders and garner opportunities to employ Detroit residents. This has proven successful on Basco?s recent developments of
220 Congress, 607 Shelby and 751 Griswold.

Broadway Detroit Properties, LLC has a policy of non-discrimination in its hiring practices, as is required by prevailing non-discrimination
laws. As long as we remain in compliance with these policies and laws, we encourage local, Detroit-based workers, both permanent
and temporary. The same requirement is communicated to our contractors. The Developer, and its af?liate Basco, have a proven
track-record of utilizing Detroit-based contractors and workers on past developments. Basco has utilized roughly 65% Detroit-based
contractors on its two most recent redevelopment projects.

 

2. Please give a detailed description of the jobs available as listed in the above chart, i.e: job type, job
quali?cations, etc.

Available construction jobs include plaster restoration, demolition, concrete, masonry, and steel work, architectural
woodwork, roofing, window glass and glazing, painting, flooring, plumbing and HVAC and electrical.

The Developer anticipates the creation of one full time equivalent permanent job related to property management.

3. Will this development cause any relocation that will create new Detroit residents?

The development is anticipated to create an estimated 36 new apartment units to the City of Detroit.

4. Has the developer reached out to any community groups to discuss the project and/or any potential jobs?
Yes. Developer has engaged with local, Detroit-based businesses, including Hamilton Anderson Associates, Real Times
Media the Michigan Chronicle, Michigan Opera Theater, and the Music Hall that have roots in the area and other
businesses making similar investment in the area.

Furthermore, the Developer previously attended a D2D session to connect with Detroit-based contractors.

5. When is construction slated to begin?

Construction is slated to commence in summer of 2019

6. What is the expected completion date of construction?

Approximately ten months following project commencement.

City of Detroit

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority

Community Advisory Committee
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

February 27, 2019

The Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 1340
Detroit, Michigan 48226

City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Board of Directors

500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Re: Recommendation for Approval of the Broadway Lofts Brownfield Redevelopment Plan

Honorable Members of the Detroit City Council and the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment

Authority Board of Directors:

In accordance with the resolution of the Detroit City Council creating the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the ?Authority"), the Community Advisory Committee, at its meeting of
February 27, 2019, adopted a resolution approving the proposed Brownfield Plan for the
Broadway Lofts Redevelopment and recommending adoption of this Brownfield Plan by the

Authority and City Council.

Please accept this letter of recommendation for approval from the Community Advisory

EXHIBIT 

Committee on the Brownfield Plan for the Broadway Lofts Redevelopment.

Very truly yours,

Ali'en'Rawls, Chairpers?o?i/
Community Advisory Committee to the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority

Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit. Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE

BROADWAY LOFTS
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

Thursday, March 7, 2019
DEGC Offices
500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226
5:30 PM

In attendance were:
Jennifer Kanalos 
Brian Vosburg 
Graten Little (BASCO)
Joe Hooker (BASCO)

Mr. Vosburg called the public hearing to order at 5:30 PM.

No members of the general public were in attendance. There were no comments
received in favor of or in opposition to the plan.

Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 5:45 PM.

EXHIBIT 

Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax: 313 963?8839
CODE DBRA 19-03-266-02

BROADWAY LOFTS BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381"), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the has been established by resolution of the City
Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City Council") for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of
environmentally distressed areas in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption
by City Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA,
the DBRA has submitted a proposed Brownfield Plan for the Broadway Lofts Redevelopment
Project (the ?Plan?) to the Community Advisory Committee for its consideration and comment and
has solicited comments by the public by publication of notice stating that the proposed Plan has
been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a public hearing in the
area to which the proposed Plan applies; and

WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and
approved a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan by the DBRA and the
City Council as presented by the and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the
DBRA has considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to
request that City Council call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the
proposed Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the adoption of the
Brownfield Plan for the Broadway Lofts Redevelopment Project is in keeping with the purposes
of Act 381 and recommends submittal of the Plan to City Council for approval.

2. The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the Plan constitutes a
?Qualifying Downtown Brownfield Project? under that certain lnterlocal Agreement by and between
the DBRA and the City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority.

3. The Board of Directors of the DBRA approves the Plan substantially in the form
attached hereto and on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.

4. Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified
copy of this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the City Council
call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the
Plan in accordance with Act 381.

5. That any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or
any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and
execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.

6. That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA,
in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such
acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed,
approved and ratified.

7. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions
of this resolution are rescinded.

March 13, 2019

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION CALLING A PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING
APPROVAL OF THE BROWNFIELD PLAN OF THE
CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE BROADWAY LOFTS REDEVELOPMENT

 

The following preamble and resolution were offered by Member
and supported by Member 

 

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, Michigan (the ?City?) is
authorized by the provisions of Act 381, Public Acts of Michigan, 1996 (?Act 381?), to
create a brownfield redevelopment authority; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Act 381, the City Council of the City duly established the
City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the ?Authority"): and

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Authority has
prepared a Brownfield Plan for the Broadway Lofts Redevelopment (the ?Plan?) and
submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory Committee for review and comment; and

WHEREAS, after receipt of the recommendation of the Community Advisory
Committee to approve the, the Authority has approved the Plan and fonlvarded it to City
Council with a request for its approval; and

WHEREAS, prior to approval of the Plan, the City Council is required to hold a
public hearing in connection with consideration of the Plan pursuant to Act 381.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1. The City Council hereby acknowledges receipt of the Plan from the
Authority.

2. A public hearing is hereby called on Thursday, the 11th day of April, 2019 at
10:25 AM, prevailing Eastern Time, in the Council Chambers, 13th Floor of the Coleman
A. Young Municipal Center in the City to consider adoption by the City Council of a
resolution approving the Plan.

3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the
provisions of this resolution are rescinded.

4. The City Clerk is requested to submit three (3) certified copies of this
resolution to the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226.

AYES: Members

 

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

and wills\arts dbra backup\correspondence\city council public hearing notices\2019 public hearing notices\Broadway Lofts cc
reso setting hearing.docx

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION APPROVING BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381?), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (?Authority?) has been established by resolution of the City
Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City") for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of eligible
properties in the City; and

WHEREAS, under Act 381 the Authority is authorized to develop and propose for adoption
by City Council a brownfield plan for one (1) or more parcels of eligible property; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the resolution establishing the Authority and the bylaws of the
Authority, the Authority has submitted a proposed brownfield plan for the Broadway Lofts
Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan"); and

WHEREAS, the Authority submitted the Plan to the Community Advisory Committee for
consideration on February 27, 2019, per the provisions of the resolution establishing the Authority,
and a public hearing was conducted by the Authority on March 7, 2019 to solicit comments on the

proposed Plan; and

WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee recommended approval of the Plan on
February 27, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the Authority determined that the Plan constitutes a ?Qualifying Downtown
Brownfield Project? under that certain lnterlocal Agreement by and between the Authority and the

City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority, approved the Plan on March 13, 2019 and
fowvarded it to the City Council with a request for its approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the public hearing on the Plan was given in accordance
with Section 13 of Act 381; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing on the proposed Plan on April 11, 2019.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. Definitions. Where used in this Resolution the terms set forth below shall have the
following meaning unless the context clearly requires otherwise:

?Eligible Activities? or ?eligible activity? shall have the meaning described in Act 381.

?Eligible Property? means the property designated in the Plan as the Eligible Property, as
described in Act 381.

?Plan" means the Plan prepared by the Authority, as transmitted to the City Council by the
Authority for approval, copies of which Plan are on file in the office of the City Clerk.

?Taxing Jurisdiction" shall mean each unit of government levying an ad valorem property
tax on the Eligible Property.

2. Public Purpose. The City Council hereby determines that the Plan constitutes a
public purpose.

3. Best Interest of the Public. The City Council hereby determines that it is in the best
interests of the public to promote the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in the City
to proceed with the Plan.

4. Review Considerations. As required by Act 381, the City Council has in reviewing
the Plan taken into account the following considerations:

 

Portions of the property designated in the Plan meets the definition of
Eligible Property, as described in Act 381, including consideration of the criteria of ?blighted" as
defined in Act 381;

The Plan meets the requirements set forth in section 13 of Act 381.

The proposed method of financing the costs of eligible activities is feasible
and the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.

The costs of eligible activities proposed are reasonable and necessary to
carry out the purposes of Act 381.

The amount of captured taxable value estimated to result from adoption of
the Plan is reasonable.

5. Approval and Adoption of Plan. The Plan as submitted by the Authority is hereby
approved and adopted. A copy of the Plan and all amendments thereto shall be maintained on
file in the City Clerk?s office.

6. Preparation of Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eliqible Property.

Within 60 days of the adoption of this Resolution, the City Assessor shall
prepare the initial Base Year Assessment Roll for the Eligible Property in the Plan. The initial
Base Year Assessment Roll shall list each Taxing Jurisdiction levying taxes on the Eligible
Property on the effective date of this Resolution and the amount of tax revenue derived by each
Taxing Jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the Eligible Property, excluding millage specifically
levied for the payment of principal and interest of obligations approved by the electors or
obligations pledging the unlimited taxing power of the local governmental unit.

The City Assessor shall transmit copies of the initial Base Year Assessment
Roll to the City Treasurer, County Treasurer, Authority and each Taxing Jurisdiction which will
have Tax Increment Revenues captured by the Authority, together with a notice that the Base

Year Assessment Roll has been prepared in accordance with this Resolution and the Plan
approved by this Resolution.

7. Preparation of Annual Base Year Assessment Roll. Each year within 15 days
following the final equalization ofthe Eligible Property, the City Assessor shall prepare an updated
Base Year Assessment Roll. The updated Base Year Assessment Roll shall show the information
required in the initial Base Year Assessment Roll and, in addition, the Tax Increment Revenues
for each Eligible Property for that year. Copies of the annual Base Year Assessment Roll shall be
transmitted by the Assessor to the same persons as the initial Base Year Assessment Roll,
together with a notice that it has been prepared in accordance with the Plan.

8. Establishment of Project Fund; Approval of Depositary. The Authority shall
establish a separate fund for the Eligible Property subject to this Plan, which shall be kept in a
depositary bank account or accounts in a bank or banks approved by the Treasurer of the City.
All moneys received by the Authority pursuant to the Plan shall be deposited in the Project Fund
for the Eligible Property. All moneys in the Project Fund and earnings thereon shall be used only
in accordance with the Plan and Act 381.

9. Use of Moneys in the Project Fund. The moneys credited to the Project Fund and
on hand therein from time to time shall be used annually to first make those payments authorized
by and in accordance with the Plan and any development agreement governing such payments
and then to the Local Site Remediation Revolving Fund, as authorized by Act 381:

10. Return of Surplus Funds to Taxinq Jurisdictions. The Authority shall return all
surplus funds not deposited in the Local Brownfield Revolving Fund proportionately to the Taxing
Jurisdictions.

11. Payment of Tax Increment Revenues to Authority. The municipal and the county
treasurers shall, as ad valorem and specific local taxes are collected on the Eligible Property, pay
the Tax Increment Revenues to the Authority for deposit in the Project Fund. The payments shall
be made not more than 30 days after the Tax Increment Revenues are collected.

12. Disclaimer. By adoption of this Resolution and approval of the Plan, the City
assumes no obligation or liability to the owner, developer, lessee or lessor of the Eligible Property
for any loss or damage that may result to such persons from the adoption of this Resolution and
Plan. The City makes no guarantees or representations as to the determinations of the
appropriate state officials regarding the ability of the Authority to capture tax increment revenues
from the State and local school district taxes for the Plan.

13. Regealer. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the
provisions of this resolution be and the same hereby are rescinded.

14. The City Clerk is requested to submit four (4) certified copies of this Resolution to
the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226

AYES: Members

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council Resolutions\2019 City Council Lofts CC resolution.docx

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

March 4, 2019

   
 

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Surplus Property Sale 13205 Dexter

Honorable City Council:

The Flaming and Development Department is in receipt of an Offer from Tyrone Dozier to
purchase, 13205 Dexter, located on the west side of Dexter, between Tyler and Waverly, for the
amount Of Seven Thousand and 00/100 Dollars This property consists of a one story
commercial building, located on an area of land containing approximately 2,733 square feet and
zoned B-4 (General Business District).

The Offeror proposes to use of the property as a clothing resale shop. Any proposed use of the
property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the property is zoned.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body adopt the sale and authorize the Planning and
Development Department Director, or his authorized designee, to issue a quit claim deed to the
property and such other documents as may be necessary to effectuate the sale, to Tyrone Dozier,
for the sales price of $7,000.00

Respectfully submitted,

  

 

 
 

. auric
Director
Flaming Development Department

  

0X

 

am

cc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

 

By Council Member

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Flaming and Development Department has
received an offer from Tyrone Dozier (?Offeror?) requesting the conveyance by the City of Detroit
of real property having a street address of 13205 Dexter (the ?Property?), more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit and

WHEREAS, this property consists of a one story commercial building, located on an area
of land containing approximately 2,733 square feet and zoned B-4 (General Business District);

and

WHEREAS, any use of the property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which
the property is zoned; 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that in accordance with the Offer to Purchase
and the foregoing communication, the Plaming and Development Department Director, or his
authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to issue a quit claim deed to 13205 Dexter, the
property more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A, and such other documents as may
be necessary to effectuate the sale, to Tyrone Dozier, for the amount of $7,000; and be it

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his
authorized designee, be and is hereby authorized to execute any required instruments to make or
incorporate technical amendments or changes to the deed and such other documents as may be
necessary to effectuate the sale (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of
legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes
are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or
technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes
do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally;

RESOLVED, that the deed and such other documents necessary to effectuate the sale, will
be considered con?rmed when signed and executed by the Plaming and Development Department
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by Corporation Counsel as to form.

EXHIBIT A

Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne and State of Michigan being Lot 147 and the South
10 feet of Lot 148: Sullivan?s Dexter Boulevard Subdivision No. 1" part of% Sec. 12, 10,000
Acre Tract, City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan. Rec?d L. 55, P. 53 Plats, W.C.R.

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys? 

 

a/k/a 13205 Dexter
Ward 14 Item 006178.002L

5

14 March 2019

DETROIT sourx'ro
CONSERVANCY



 

Janese Chapman, Senior Historic Planner
Legislative Policy Division

Historic Designation Advisory Board
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 218

Detroit, MI 48221

Dear Janese,

l'm writing today to notify you about a time-sensitive and evolving situation at the
Blue Bird at SO21Tireman.

On January 3rd, Detroit Sound Conservancy submitted our purchase agreement and
made a deposit on the building. Then, on February 26th, the agreement was
approved unanimously by Detroit City Council. Simultaneously, we were contacted
via phone by a building inspector from B.S.E.E.D. (Buildings Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department), who informed us that a) the property had been
?ordered demolished" for being "open? and "overgrown" in October 2017 and b) we
would need to get a "deferral of demolition order" from BSEED once we owned the

property.

After Council approval, we followed up with Council Member Raquel
Castaneda-Lopez's office on the process for removing the building from any
demolition list. They encouraged us to contact the Detroit Building Authority. Our
contact there has been Felecia Studstill. We spoke with her this morning. They are
aware of the demolition order and are working together with the Demolition Team
within DBA (as well as the "Tactical Preservation Team" led by Jacqueline Taylor of
the Planning Department). She confirmed the "sales case" for the building protects it
from demolition, though she did say that this demolition process is being ?refined"
internally. She promised us an update on our purchase agreement by next week
Tuesday.

As I know you understand, given the recent demolition of a Civil War era loa cabin in
Detroit, we are very concerned that the Blue Bird, arguably the most important site
in the formation of modern Detroit musicianship, is on any demolition list, active or
not.

Timing on all of this is crucial. We have been working solidly since May 2018,
beginning with the suggestion from the Council Member's office to engage Matt
Walters, Executive Manager of Development, on establishing ownership of the
property. (This is in addition to over seven years of activism around the building and
its legacy documented on our website and in our current exhibit "Salvaging Sound'I
at the Detroit Historical Society up until April 7th.) As l'm sure you know, we were
granted a planning grant through The Kresge Foundation's KIPD Round 4 program,
a grant we are completing. Per grant requirements, we will have to have completed
payment for the building (or put those funds in escrow) by April 2nd.

Over the next few days we will be communicating this process and our action steps
with our supporters, community partners, and prospective neighbors.

In that spirit, as the City's prime advocate for historic preservation, the Blue Bird's
potential future designation as a local historic district, potential National Register
property, and potential UNESCO World Heritage Site, we would appreciate your
advice on any additional steps necessary to ensure preservation of the building,
including any additional people and departments we should be communicating
with.

Thank you for any advice you may have.

Sincerely,



Carleton S. Gholz, 
Executive Director

 

Detroit Sound Conservancy
440 Burroughs, Suite 195
Detroit, MI 48202

CC:

Jennifer Reinhardt, HDAB
Brenda Jones, Council President
Jane? Ayers, Council Member

Afton Branche, Community and Policy Manager, Office of Council Member Raquel
Castaneda-Lopez

Matt Walters, Executive Manager of Development, Mayor's Office

Jacqueline Taylor, Planning Department

Kimberly Driggins, Planning Department

Felecia Studstill, Signature Associates

Erik Kehoe, Executive Director, Preservation Detroit

Melissa Arrowsmith, Michigan Historic Preservation Network

Brian Conway, State Historic Preservation Office

Jonah Paduns-Silverstein, Projects Coordinator Detroit Sound Conservancy

Alyson Jones Turner, Vice President of Detroit Sound Conservancy Board of Directors

Yasir Muhammad, Detroit Sound Conservancy Counsel, Kotz Sangster Wysocki P.C.

Page 1 ofl

Deonte Agee - 

From: Jasmine Barnes

To: Jones, Louise; Agee, Deonte; Chapman, Janese; Wiggins, Cherrie
Date: 3/14/2019 3:37 PM

Subject: 

Cc: Jones, Brenda; Grady, Stephen

Attachments: 

 

Greetings!

Please referto the Planning and Economic Development Standing Committee on the 3-19-19 New Business
Agenda for a temporary historic designation while HDAD works to resolve this mater!

Best Regards,

Jasmine Barnes

Senior Policy Analyst/Community Liaison

Office of Detroit City Council President Brenda Jones
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Suite 1340

Detroit, Michigan 48226

(313) 224-8034(phone)

(313) 224-4095 (fax)

 

3/15/2019

