(061 mm CI. 


Olga/Mow

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

. IO
 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,



WHEREAS,

. WHEREAS,

Rev. Dr. Laura E. Foster is a native of Highland Park, Michigan and is the second oldest of six children
born to Albert and Matilda Foster.

Rev. Foster accepted the call to the Ministry in March of 1992 and became an ordained Elder in the African
Methodist Episcopal Church in August of 1996. She currently serves on the Ministerial staff of Greater
Quinn AME. Church in Detroit, Michigan.

Rev. Dr. Foster received her Bachelor of Science Degree in Education from Central Michigan University
and went on to earn both her Master?s in Guidance and Counseling, and her Doctorate in Educational
Administration from Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan.

Dr. Foster has been recognized by various organizations as she has toiled in the vineyard and has received
numerous awards for her service to her community as a teacher, police of?cer, guidance counselor,
Assistant Principal, federal program director, mentor, vocalist, and Minister. If you see a huge smile on her
face, it is because she has retired after 40 years of service to ?All of God?s children!?

Dr. Foster is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc., as well as a member of Guiding Star Chapter
#11, Order of the Eastern Star, Prince Hall Af?liation.

Rev. Foster truly loves the Lord, and of all her accomplishments and blessings, she considers her BA the
most important thing to remember about her, for truly being is the foundation for all of

her life?s achievements.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Office of City Council President Pro Tern Mary Shef?eld and the Detroit
City Council, on the 12th day of August, that this resolution endure as a permanent record of respect and
admiration be presented to Reverend Dr. Laura E. Foster for her accomplishments and leadership within
the community.

 
 



c1519? ES .130 81:03 Alli}

Rage or?

 

MEMBER

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Aug :49 

DATE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

THEREFORE,

  

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 ggemdM/twm

On Sunday, December 14, 2008 St. James Missionary Baptist Church called Evangelist Karl L. Reid to service a
Overseer. In 2009, Evangelist Karl L. Reid accepted the call to Pastor at St. James M.B.C. 

Pastor Reid was very instrumental in helping St. James celebrate 100 years of Ministry in October of 2017 at the Athena
Banquet Center located in Roseville, Michigan.

Pastor Reid is a gospel recording artist with the group Commissioned of Detroit, Michigan. He is one of the original
members of the group and has traveled for over twenty years nationally and internationally spreading the good news of
the Gospel in both spoken word and music. Since forming in 1982, the men of Commissioned have recorded 11 albums,
received many Dove Awards as well as others, and have been nominated for a number of Grammy?s. Pastor Reid?s voice
is the tenors lead on the ever-popular hit ?Secret Place?, which he wrote.

Pastor Reid is celebrating 30 years of marriage with his wife, Minister Toi and has two adult sons who both love and
serve God.

Pastor Karl Reid graduated from the Bible Training Center at Word of Faith International Christian Center, with honors,
where he was also licensed and ordained by Bishop Keith A. Butler. He also received his Doctorate degree in Theology.
He serves faithfully as Pastor of St. James Missionary Baptist of Detroit, and faithfully as Assistant Pastor at The River
Church in Livonia, Michigan.

Pastor Karl Reid is celebrating 40 years of Ministry and 10 years as Pastor of St. James Missionary Baptist Church. There
is no question that God has placed his anointing on the life Minister Karl Reid. There are many testimonies of miracles
and deliverances through his ministry. Maniages have been restored, couples who were unable to have children received
them, and cancers and all manner of sicknesses have been healed. The gifts of the Spirit are in manifestation and God
does honor Minister Reid with the move of the Spirit!

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Of?ce of City Council President Pro Tem Mary Shef?eld and the Detroit City Council,
on the 8th day of December, that this resolution endure as a permanent record commemoration and recognition to Pastor
Karl L. Reid for 40 years of ministry and 10 years as Pastor of St. James Missionary Baptist Church.

tit-'EZW 1:10 SIDE H3373 MI 3



 0f 7

COUNCIL MEMBEFI

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

RESOLUTION

In Memori'am

November 3, 1928 September 26, 2018

WHEREAS Mr. George Jerone Stevens, was born on November 3, 1928, in Rome, Georgia to Joe and Lucile (Wise) Stephens,
the fifth of six children. He came to Detroit at an early age. He left and served in the US. Military during the Korean War. After leaving
the Armed Services Mr. George Jerone Stevens, returned back to live and work in Detroit, Michigan. It was in Detroit that he met his
beautiful bride and wife of 56 years, Mrs. Minnie Brandon, and

WHEREAS In 1960, Mr. George Jerone Stevens, began work as the first and only African-American employee at G-E-M
contractors as a laborer. Mr. George Jerone Stevens found himself less than content with being just a laborer. So he began to teach
himself all that he could by looking over the shoulder of his then boss and company owner Vern Hooper. During this time George Jerone
Stevens managed to secure the knowledge of both installing and calibrating dynamometer machinery, which he did for the once big
three as well as American Motors over the years while he worked at G.E.M. George gained the respect and a lifelong friendship of Vern
Hooper who admired and respected what George Jerone Stevens had accomplished and made him the ?rst African-American
Supervisor at his company. George used his position to open doors for other African-Americans, enabling them to make wages that
weren?t traditionally paid to African~Arnericans during this era, and

WHEREAS Mr. George Jerone Stevens still not satisfied with being just an employee he decided to go into business for himself
with the help of his wife and lifetime partner, they along with a family member opened a chicken restaurant. This venture lead to Mr.
George Jerone Stevens and his wife opening their second business, The Dairy King Ice Cream parlor. Mr. George Jerone Stevens soon
realized that success of this business had outgrown the walls that it was within. This pushed George to teach himself yet another trade. 50
George took a heating and cooling class which he used to create his master piece. He engineemd an ice cream truck using a diesel fuel
generator to supply power to all the AC power machinery needed to run his dairy queen on wheels. This served as a prototype for the
mobile food industry. The business gained him and his wife fame throughout the west side of Detroit as the Good Mr. Softee Ice Cream

truck, and

WHEREAS Mr. George Jerone Stevens and his wife Minnie still not satis?ed, decided to invest into real-estate where they
provided affordable clean housing for many families over the years. All this was done during George Jerone Stevens thirty-five year
career at G.E.M. Upon on retiring, George Jerone Stevens started his ?nal successful business, M. Stevens 3L Son, that he named after
his wife whom he deemed the CEO. Here he went on to use the trade that he had acquired at G.E.M. to work for Roush Industries EPA,
Ricardo Industries, Bosal and GFI. While doing this George Jerone Stevens employed several young men teaching them more than just
a trade. Believing that he could take this as an opportunity to teach them self-respect, self-worth and self?con?dence. These were the
skills he believed would help make them leaders amongst men; and

WHEREAS George Jerone Stevens is survived by his loving wife, Minnie Stevens; daughters, LaTonya(Kenneth)Davenport and
Yolanda Stevens; son, Sean(Monique} Stevens; grandchildren, Joshua Davenport, Ciinton Gresham II and Sidney Stevens; sister Mary
Jones; and numerous nieces, nephews, cousins and friends who he left to cherish his memory and continue to preserve and cultivate his
legacy. George Jerone Stevens was preceded in death by his parents Joe and Lucile Stevens; sister, Mabel Thornton; brothers, Joe
Bob, and Charles Stevens; and two beautiful grandchildren, Deiando Stevens and Joslyn Davenport, NOW THEREFORE BE IT

     
     

 

RESOLVED On behalf of myself, Council Member Roy McCalister, Jr, and the entire Detroit City Council we give Mr. George
Jerone Stevens this blessing, as he returns to the Father. May the Lord bless you. May the Angels of the Lord lead you to your
Savior?s arms. For you were a sign of his presence to us, through your intuitive ideas and creative abilities that lead you to start
businesses that blessed many individuals and families. May the Lord now embrace you and hold you in his love forever. Amen.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

I(tj?crober 6, 2018 

DATE

 

 

 

Benz-MU  iil? site 343373 is: 2'

