Foam/H.
3 -- R.

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 6?

'13 Alla





MARY AUDREY HAMILTON

December 18, 1921 - February 2, 2019
In Memoriam

irr'E'iL'H HUN 5103 

WHEREAS Mary Audrey Hamilton was born December 18, 1921 in Spring?eld, Ohio to the union James and
Nellie Krumholtz. She was the youngest of eight children and received her education from
Catholic Schools in Spring?eld. In 1940 she graduated from Catholic Central High School; and

WHEREAS Mary Audrey Hamilton was a devoted wife and dedicated mother. She met the love of her life
Walter Hamilton in 1939. The couple married at St. Teresa on January 22, 1944. This union was
blessed with a daughter; Sue Ellen; and

WHEREAS Mary Audrey Hamilton was employed with Wright Patterson and the Social Security Department.
As a committed employee she received several commendations. Along with her zeal for working
she possessed an entrepreneurial spirit. For many years she and her husband owned and operated
a religious gift shop from their home and later a ?orist shop; and

WHEREAS Mary Audrey Hamilton was a faithful member of Shepherds of Christ. There she worked with her
sister promoting the churches mission and goals. She was a strong advocate and supporter of
young mothers and those in need. Her efforts fed and clothed countless families. Mary and her
siblings made Rosaries for Mission Priests and members of the community; and

WHEREAS Mary Audrey Hamilton moved to Michigan following the death of her husband and later to
Detroit to be near her daughter. She was a consistent prayer warrior and lived by four simple
rules, ?no lying, no cheating, no stealing, no exceptions?; and

WHEREAS It being the will of our Lord to call our beloved home after a long life of service, Mary Audrey
Hamilton transitioned from this life, from labor to reward on February 2, 2019; THEREFORE,
BE IT RESOLVED

RESOLVED That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council expresses their deepest

condolences and share their sympathy in the loss of your loved one, Mary Audrey Hamilton.
Your loss is heaven?s gain. May God bless you and comfort you during this time and always.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

March 2, 2019

 

DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

6?

GAMMA LAMBDA CHAPTER

1 00?? Anniversary

317?? IT Elijtl EIUZ ALIS

WHEREAS Detroit?s Gamma Lambda Charter was introduced to the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity,
Incorporated' in 1919. Thirteen faithful members held the ?rst meeting at the of?ces of Dr. M. E.

Morton and Dr. J. Gregory at 1721 St. Antoine Street; and

WHEREAS Detroit?s Gamma Lambda Charter ?rst President was James Langston Henderson. The meeting
location was moved to the Columbia Community Center. In 1920 the ?rst chapter initiation took

place with four new members joining. Later that same year six more members were initiated;
and

WHEREAS Detroit?s Gamma Lambda Chapter heard the concerns of members needing a steady location for
meetings. Therefore the members purchased a house located at 293 Eliot on May 15, 1939. It is
the oldest fratemity house in Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Incorporation; and

WHEREAS Detroit?s Gamma Lambda Charter is known for its community service and outreach. There are
four national programs that all chapters have adopted. In 1922 The Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity
established ?Go-To-l-Iigh School, Go-To-College? a program that emphasis the importance of
completing secondary and collegiate education as a road to advancement and success. ?Project
Alpha? was started in 1980 to educate young males ages 12?15 on relationships, teen pregnancy
and sexually transmitted diseases. Voteless People Is A Hopeless People" is a project to
increase voter education and registration. ?Brother?s Keeper? is a program that is dedicated to

improving the quality of life for brothers as they become elderly; and

WHEREAS Detroit?s Gamma Lambda Chapter also has a ?Big Brother Big Sister? mentoring program, co-
sponsors the Meals on Wheels program, and works diligently to award worthy recipients

scholarships. Their nonpro?t Gamma Lambda Community Development Corporation was
established in 2007 to prevent the generational cycle of poverty, teen pregnancy, and end

educational stagnation; NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED That the Of?ces of Councilmen Scott Benson, James Tate and Detroit City Council
congratulates Detroit?s Gamma Lambda Chapter of the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Incorporated

for 100 years of service to the residents of Detroit.

 

  

 

. . COUNCMHESIDENT

Gr a ?ti $43March 9, 2019
DATE


DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 70



Dexter Avenue Baptist Church
100'? Anniversary Celebration 1919 2019

WHEREAS, For one hundred years, Dexter Avenue Baptist Church has been serving communities on the west side of Detroit
preaching and teaching Christian stewardship, while nurturing the physical body, spirit, and mind through the
traditions and principles of Baptist teachings. The church was organized on March 6, 1919, located at 2346
Lincoln in Highland Park, Michigan, under the name of Mt. Moriah Baptist Church. One of the founding
members, Rev. William Ferrell, Jr., was installed as the ?rst pastor. Under Reverend William Ferrell. Jr., the
church continued to grow. Due to its growth, the church moved to 13724 Thompson in Highland Park and at that
time, was the only Baptist church in the city; and

WHEREAS, Dexter Avenue Baptist Church has had minimal changes in leadership over the last 100 years. Shepherds that
have lead the church over the years include: Rev. H.B. Bronson (1928-1931), Rev. R.R. Richardson (1931-1932),
Rev. Charles Glover Young (1932?1934), and Rev. LJ. Benson (1935-1943), Rev. Dr. William R. Hanley (1945-
1985), Rev. Asriel G. McLain (1986-1997). Rev. Frank Raines, (2000-2010), Rev. Bartlett, 11 (2011), and
Rev. Richard White, 111, (2015-present). God gave every pastor a vision to do something that would improve and
enrich the church family and the community; and

WHEREAS. Rev. Dr. William R. Haney was called to pastor in 1945, during a challenging time in the church. As the church
continued to grow, it needed a new location. In 1958. Reverend Dr. William R. Haney, along with the
congregation, made their way to the current location at 13500 Dexter Avenue in Detroit. Michigan and renamed
the church Dexter Avenue Baptist Church. The church?s role in the community expanded with the purchase of
an attached building at 3350 W. Davison and creation of the William R. Haney Center. The center serves as a
community outreach ministry, which includes a youth ministry program, senior citizens program, Christian
education ministry and the Dexter/Metro Home Health Care Ministry, to name a few. The church also purchased
a Medical Center at 3338 W. Davison, which housed dentists and physicians, as well as a low-income housing
complex directly across the street from the church. Rev. Richard White. 111, an outstanding pastor, has continued
to grow the church, through the word of God, prayer, and love to people of all ages. Dexter Avenue Baptist
Church has come this far by faith and continues to provide spiritual, educational, and economic nurturing for
humanity. What ajoy for one hundred years of service to God and the community! NOW, THEREFORE BE
IT

RESOLVED, That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, wishes to congratulate the entire
congregation of Dexter Avenue Baptist Church on this commemoration of their 100"l Church Anniversary.
May God continue to bless everyone in abundance!


It.) a 

COUN 

A.

COUNCIL W-




COUEMBEH 
I 

MEMBER I

March 10, 2019

DATE

 

   

 

 
 

 

 

CIT CLERK 2019 15?. tat-12:48

 

7!

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

 

 

WH EREAS.

WHEREAS.

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS.

RESOLVED.

can!? . ..
.- 

UNCIL MEMBER

 

  

CO CIL MEMBER

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

HOWARD ECHOLS 

Howard Echols was born on December 18. 1939. in Detroit. Michigan. to the union of Lucille Mitchell and
Howard Echols .lr. Howard was the second oldest of four siblings. His parents and two of his siblings. Donald
Mitchell and Glenn Echols preceded him in death: and

Howard received his adolescent education in the Detroit Public Schools system. He attended Washington
Elementary. Cleveland Middle School and graduated ?'orn Pershing High School (home of the Doughboys) in [957.
His Christian experience began at an early age at Green Grove Baptist Church. where he attended worship services
with his beloved grandmother. Later in life. Howard moved his membership to Davison Missionary Baptist
Church. under the leadership of Pastor (3. Louis Randolph. ln l96l. he was baptized in the name of the Father. the
Son and the Holy Spirit; and

During grade school, Howard met Merci Small. Little did he know that he had met the girl of his dreams. the love
of his life, his future wife and the mother of his beloved children. They were inseparable throughout their childhood
and adult life. On July 2. 1960. Howard and Merci. his queen and helpmate were united in Holy Matrimony. To
this union they were blessed with two children. a beautiful daughter. Angela and a handsome son. Ten-ance. The
couple raised their children in Detroit. Michigan. They enjoyed a very ful?lling life as one. worshipping in church.
working together. traveling, attending social affairs. and always sharing the love that they had for each other; and

In l961. Howard accepted employment with Ford Motor Company. He worked in the area of skilled trades at the
Ford Rawsonville Plant in Ypsilanti. Michigan. After 42 years of dedicated service and a prosperous career. he
retired in 2004. After retirement, Howard exercised his civic duty and became very active in the community. He
was a faithful President of the Fenelon. Conley. and Keystone Block Club on the Northeast side of Detroit. Howard
was a tireless advocate for the community and wanted to have safety measures that would ensure the protection of
the elders and children. and enhance the quality of life in his neighborhood. He was passionate about the city he
loved so much. He never minced his words with political leaders. holding them accountable to do what they said
they were going to do. and to be truthful and transparent! Howard enjoyed being an active member of the Davison
Old Timers Club. At Davison Missionary Baptist Church. he was a devoted member and served on the trustee
board. usher board and provided security. Howard even shared his culinary skills with the kitchen ministry: and

Howard was a great husband. father. grandfather. brother. uncle and friend to many. He never despaired if what he
had given to others was not reciprocated in return. In fact. his philosophical belief was to ?Do unto others as you
would have them do unto you." On March 6. 20l9. God called Howard to a peaceful community in Heaven. His
wish was that we celebrate his life rather than mount. Howard loved the life he lived and lived the life he loved.
having 58 blissful years with his wife ?Met-t" as he affectionately called her. NOW. THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and office of Council President Brenda Jones. hereby expresses condolences and
joins with family and 'ends in honoring the memory of Howard Echols ill. He will be greatly missed.

 

 

a
I C0 CIL PRESIDENT
.1144: 1.14;? I 
.
'a A

 

 
 
 

    

 

 
  

m" CIL MEMBER

March 15: 2019

DATE

 

 

 

