 020/;
NM) 5711111114

INTERNAL
OPERATIONS
STANDING
COMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437
PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY OF DETROIT

FAX 313-224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT


September 21, 2018 g;

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

   

RE: Lavell Scott City of Detroit

Civil Action Case No: 18-cv-10712

Representation by the Law Department of the City employees or of?cers listed below is hereby
announced, as we concur with the recommendation of the Head of the Department and believe that
the City Council should ?nd and determine that the suit against the Defendant arises out of or
involves the performance in good faith of the of?cial duties of such Defendant. We ?irther

recommend that the City undertake to indemnify the Defendant if there is an adverse judgment.
We therefore, recommend a vote on the attached resolution.

Copies of the relevant documents are submitted under separate cover.
Employee(s) or Of?cer(s) requesting representation:

P.O. Edward Jackson

Badge No: 2701
Sgt. Kerry Petties

Badge No: 8-469

. Ransom Williams Badge No: 8-1016
Res cc?! submi'tte 
Douglas er, Chief of Criminal

Enforcer nt and Quality of Life

APPROVED:


s?gz,d?i?ldauana
AWNCE T. GARCIA

CORPORATION COUNSEL

DB/sb

Attachments



rim-u

L-Lll

RE I 
By Council Member

RESOLVED, that the Law Department is hereby authorized under Section 13-11-1 et.
seq. of the Municipal Code of the City of Detroit and in accordance with the foregoing
communication to provide indemni?cation to the following Employee(s) or Of?cer(s) in the
lawsuit Lavell Scott City of Detroit v. Civil Case No. 18-cv-10712.

P.O. Edward Jackson Badge No: 2701

Sgt. Kerry Petties Badge No: 8-469
Sgt. Ransom Williams Badge No: S-1016

APPROVED:


BY: We
LAWRENCE T. GARCIA
CORPORATION COUNSEL

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437
PHONE 313-224-4550

CITY OF DETROIT FAX 313-224-5505

DEPARTMENT 

   

 

Date: October 1, 2018
To: Honorable City Council

From: Law Department

Re: Law Department Report on Tax Collection Initiative on Foreclosed Properties as
authorized by resolution of the Detroit City Council.

 

The Law Department has submitted a privileged and con?dential memorandum regarding the

above?referenced matter. Please submit this item for referral so that Council may consider any
action that is necessaryr-?w



COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550 
CITY OF DETROIT 313.224-5505

DEPARTMENT

   



 

Date: October 4, 2018
To: Honorable City Con
From: Law Department

Re: Pending TOW Litigation

 

The Law Department has submitted a privileged and con?dential memorandum regarding the
above?referenced matter.

CLERK as 8 GET 4 Frail-43

 



Christopher Gulock, AICP

David Whitaker, Esq. ?it? of Etna? Derrick Headd

Director Marcel Hurt, Esq.

Irvin Corleerr. CITY COUNCIL Kimani Jeffrey
Executive Pairey Manager A . 
Marcen R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION we anga
Senior Cl"? 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center :m'eNMuJPhy
E'T?pm'? Dem?, Michigan 48226 Athin:?Poivers Ph 

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224?4336 Jennifer Reinha?rdt? 
LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Sabrina Shockley
M. Rory Bolger, AICP Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter
Tasha Cowen Theresa Thomas
Richard Drumb Underwood
George Etheridge
Deborah Goldstein

.ity Council

TO: The Honorable Detroit

   



FROM: David D. Whitake q, ,3
Legislative Policy Division Staff

DATE: October 5, 2018
RE: Proposed Chapter 11-30 of Recodi?ed Detroit City Code

For your consideration, the Legislative Policy Division has provided below a general overview
of the type of amendments that have been made in the proposed chapters 11-30 of the Detroit
City Code recodi?cation project. The Home Rule City Act, 117.5b, authorizes the City to
amend, rearrange and repeal provisions in the Code through a recodi?cation process. The
amendments are being made to update language to re?ect changes in State law and to remove
unnecessary and duplicative provisions. There are only a few instances where changes are being
made because of a City agency?s request for a change of policy, in those instances the request is
noted. Although allowed, it has been determine that further changes of policy would be best
handled outside of this process.

This recodi?cation project has been lingering for quite some time. Because of cost and time
considerations, the project needs to come to an end. Every time City Council enacts a new
ordinance, that ordinance causes a series of adjustments in the proposed recodi?ed code. The
City has exhausted almost all of the free changes to the draft manuscript under the contract; any
new changes would be at a cost of $22 per page if included in the recodi?cation process.
Therefore, all new ordinance going forward will simply be added in subsequent updates to the
Code to avoid ?Irther delay.

Two the schematic elements that will be seen throughout the recodi?cation is identi?cation of
penalties and speci?c licensing information within each chapter. In many cases throughout the
current Code penalties have not been speci?ed within each chapter, so the general penalty
provisions located in Chapter 1 are applied when violations occur. The recodi?ed code identi?es

the penalties (in most cases misdemeanors) with each chapter for the readers? convenience.
Additionally, all of the licensing provisions are now within the chapters were the licenses are
established in lieu of being contained in Chapter 30 as the current Code provides.

Chapter 11 CIGARETTES

This chapter simply speci?es that a person/company must have a license to sell cigarettes. There
are no substantive changes to the policies within this chapter; however, the particular
requirements for each license has been moved this Chapter. Additionally, the misdemeanor
penalty has been speci?ed in the chapter.

Chapter 12 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

This chapter identi?es the various development entities that exist within City government
and speci?es each entity?s composition and powers. Those entities include: The
Building Authority, Corridor Improvement Authority, Downtown Development
Authority, Economic Development Corporation, Empowerment Zone Development,
Housing Commission. These provisions have been rearranged so that they are now
alphabetized in the chapter.

Additionally, the community bene?ts ordinance that was approved City electors has been
added.

In accordance with Emergency Manager Order No. 36, all the information related to the
establishment and existence of citizens? district councils (CDC) have been eliminated
from the chapter. This includes the process for creating a CDC and the powers of CDCs.
Consequently, the district areas and development areas have also been removed from the
chapter.

The tax increment ?nancing and development plan for the Central Industrial Park Project
Development Area has been removed because it was dissolved as part of a lawsuit
between the City of Hamtramck and the City of Detroit. City of Hamtramck v. City of
Detroit and City of Detroit Tax Increment Finance Authority, Wayne County Circuit
Court Case No. 

Chapter 13 ELECTIONS

This chapter includes only City speci?c election related items because generally,
elections are governed by State law. Included in this chapter is the local election
procedures which cover the posting of election results.

Article II Board ofCanvassers have been removed because the activities previously done
by the board is now being provided the County Board of Cavassers per Public Act 51 of
2013.

Chapter 14 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

There are no changes in policy within this chapter. The chapter generally covers the
delegation of powers in times of emergency to an Emergency Management Coordinator
and creates the City?s Department of Homeland Security.

Chapter 15 EMINENT DOMAIN

This chapter contains the process by which the City takes property by eminent domain.
There are no changes in policy in this chapter. There de?nitions of several terms have
been spelled out instead of cross-referencing other sections of the Code that de?nes this
term. This makes it easier for the reader to have the terms de?ned in this chapter.

Chapter 16 ENVIRONMENT

This chapter combines three current chapters in the Code?Chapter 36 Noise, Chapter 37
Nuisances and Chapter 57 Vegetation. These are subject matters that may have a
negative impact on the peaceable enjoyment of a person?s environment.

Other than moving the provisions to different locations within the Code, the policies
remain generally unchanged.

As has been done throughout the Code, speci?c licensing information has been provided
within the chapter.

Chapter 17 FINANCE

The current Chapter 18 Finance and Taxation is being separated into two smaller but still
meaty chapters??Chapter 17 Finance and Chapter 44 Taxation.
Public Act 182 of 2014 delegates to the Chief Financial Of?cer of the City the
authority over ?all ?nancial and budget activities of the city.? As such, a number of
changes have been made throughout the chapter to re?ect that. Speci?cally,
responsibilities that were given to the Finance Director is now handled by the CFO.
Additionally, in instances where departments were authorized to bring things directly to
City Council, those items must now go to the OCFO before being brought to City
Council.
While the City is still under the review of the Financial Review Commission, the City has
to change the timing of the budget process to accommodate the review by the
commission. Accordingly, the budget process and timeline has been amended to allow
for the review of the FRC and to re?ect the Revenue Consensus Conference required by
the 2012 Detroit City Charter. The new Budget will be as follows:

0 February 18th The Budget Director transmits the budget to the Mayor

0 February 27th??Mayor to complete any revisions of the budget to the Budget

Director
0 March 7th Budget Director transmits the budget to City Council for
consideration

0 April 7th City Council concludes its consideration of the budget and votes
0 April 8th City Clerk transmits the budget to Mayor for approval or rejection
0 3rd business day following April 8th Mayor to either approve or veto the budget

0 3rd calendar day or 2nd business day after maximum date for Mayor to veto budget
City Council may act upon any item that is disapproved by the Mayor

The Budget Stabilization Fund is being deleted in favor of the Budget Reserve Fund in
accordance with the Home Rule City Act.
Sections 18-5-22 through 18-5-24 are being deleted because the Health Department?s
authority to let contracts for goods and health services outside of the City?s general
contracting process is being removed. The Health Department will have to utilize the
same purchasing procedures as all other departments. This change was requested the
OCFO.
There are minor changes the imprest cash process. These accounts are utilized by the
Detroit Police Department for undercover operations. Pursuant to the changes, all imprest
cash will have to approved by the OCFO. The OCFO will establish internal controls to
govern use of imprest cash accounts. These changes were requested by the OCFO.
Provisions in Article VI Uniform Procedure for Accounts Receivable is being reworded
to clarify process and to remove references to services no longer provided by the City e. g.
hospital services. Although reworded, the policies in these sections are unchanged.
Section 17-7?21 is being added to re?ect the sewerage disposal system revenue bonds
that have been previously approved by City Council but not incorporated in the Code as
printed on Municode.

Chapter 18 FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION

This chapter was rewritten and enacted in 2017 to provide updated language and to
amend the ?reworks related provisions in accordance with the Michigan Fireworks
Safety Act.

Requirements that also contained in the Zoning ordinance have been removed to ensure
that there is no inadvertent con?ict between the language in both chapters.

Chapter 19 FOOD

The Michigan Food Law of 2000 is being adopted. As such Article II Adulteration or
Misbranding of Food is being deleted because it is regulated in the Food Law. Pursuant
to this the food handling provisions are included in the deletions because they are no
longer required by the State of Michigan.

De?nitions have been amended to mirror terms as de?ned in the Michigan Food Law.
Articles Manufacture, Preparation, Handling and Service of Food Generally, IV
Slaughtering Establishments, Meat Markets And Meat oodproducts, Inspection 0f
Meat And Other Food VI Poultry Dealers, VII Fish and Fish Dealers, Soft Drinks
Article and Permitting and Regulation of Mobile Food Service Establishments and
Food Carts are being repealed and are being replaced with provisions that re?ect the
requirements of the Federal Department of Agriculture Food Code of 2009.

Chapter 20 HEALTH

The Michigan Health Public Code is being adopted by reference.
Provisions governing stockyards and City-run hospitals are being removed as obsolete.

Article II Bedding and Upholstered Furniture is being amended to re?ect the Health
Department?s practices. Similar provisions in State law have been repealed; however, the
Health Department thought these provisions are still useful due to the bed bug
infestations.
The current Articles Communicable Diseases, IV Burial Regulations and XI
Environmental Control are being omitted because the subject matters are governed by the
Michigan Public Health Code.
The current Articles umigating and Disinfecting and VI Rodent and Pest Control are
being repealed because they are preempted by the Michigan Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act.
The current Article IX Rendering Establishments is being repealed because the subject
matter is governed by the Michigan Bodies of Dead Animals Act. Additionally, the City
no longer licenses rendering facilities.
Several ordinances have been moved from other locations within the Code because they
seem suitable located within the Health chapter. The policies of these ordinances have
not be changed. The particular requirements for each license has been added also. The
ordinances are as follows:

0 new Article Body Art Facilities
new Article Massage Facilities and Massage Schools
new Article Public Bathhouses
new Article Swimming Pools

000

Chapter 21 HISTORY

This chapter identi?es all the historic districts throughout the City of Detroit. It also lists
the agencies that establish and administer the districts.

The design treatment levels have been removed from all of the districts that contain them
because they were repealed in 2004 in a previous ordinance amendment.

The ordinances did not have information regarding the establishment of the districts had
that information added.

Chapter 22 HOUSING

The new Article lAbatement of Vacant Dwellings Program was moved from Chapter 37.
The provisions remained generally unchanged other than the correction of citations and
department names.

The current Article II Inspection of Substandard Dwellings is being deleted because is
obsolete and contained in the Property Maintenance Code.

The Condominium Conversion Ordinance, Article VI, was removed because it is
preempted by the Michigan Condominium Act.

The de?nitions related to the Neighborhood Enterprise Zones have been amended to
conform with the terms as de?ned in the Michigan Neighborhood Enterprise Act.

In a number of locations throughout the Code the word ?however? has been substituted by
the words ?provided, that?. This changes mistakenly changes the meaning of the
sentences creating a condition whether than stating an exception. The word ?however?
should be maintained or different words should be used as a substitute.

The Repair to Own Program provisions have been moved from Chapter 14 into this
Chapter as Article VI.

The current Article VII Stabilization and Regulation of Kent Increases has been removed
because it is preempted by State?s prohibition on rent control. MCL 123.411.

Chapter 23 HUMAN RIGHTS

This chapter has been amended to make provisions and de?nitions mirror the Elliott?
Larsen Civil Rights Act. Most of the current provisions provide for generally the same
thing but is being tweaked to more closely re?ect the Act. So in the end, the policies of
the chapter still serve the same purpose. While it appears that there are a lot of changes,
substantively the provisions have changed very little and generally only work to provide
enhanced protections. For instance, throughout the chapter the categories of height,
weight and familial status are being added as categories by which individuals may not be
discriminated.

The current Article Domestic Partnership is being deleted because the courts in
National Pride at Work v. Governor of Michigan, 481 Mich 56 (2008), decided that
municipalities are not authorized to provide domestic partnership bene?ts. This is
mitigated by the fact that the US. Supreme Court has held that all states are required to
allow same sex marriages. Oberge?ll v. Hodges, 576 US (2015)

Article II Administration and Enforcement has been reorganized. The provisions that are
contained in the Charter have been removed form the ordinance to avoid any con?ict in
interpretation. However, these provision remain in place because they are Charter
provisions.

Under the recodi?ed chapter, the time limitation for individuals to pursue a review of a
decision of the Human Rights Department has been set at 21 days. This is a nine day
reduction from the 30 days contained in the current ordinance. It is unclear why this
change is being made.

A new Division 3 Certification of Businesses of Article II, is being added to codify the
procedures by which the department certi?es businesses. These are certi?cations as the
follow categories of businesses: Detroit-Based Business, Detroit-Based Small Business,
Detroit-Headquartered Business, Minority-Owned Business Enterprise, and Women-
Owned Business Enterprise.

Chapter 24 LAND DIVISION AND SUBDIVISION

The City Planning Commission?s role in the process to have land subdivided has been
added to re?ect the process as is required. Sections 24-2-23, 24-2-25 and 24-2?26

The department names have changed to re?ect new department names or changes in
responsibility.

Section 24-2-21 Preapplication Review Meeting has been added to provide for the
preapplication review meeting required by the Michigan Land Division Act.

Chapter 25 LAUNDERING

This chapter covers the licensing of dry cleaners and laundromats.

- Under the Michigan Public Health Code, hat cleaning is included as dry cleaning, as
such, Article Hat Cleaning is being eliminated.

I The bonds currently required to transact business as a dry cleaner is being removed in
favor of a more appropriate bailee policy of insurance. Surety bonds are typically
utilized for speci?c job rather than running an ongoing business.

0 Section 28-2-22 When surety bond or bailee policy not required is being deleted. Before
a business may receive a license, it must have insurance. This is section is contradictory
to this requirement; therefore, it is being removed.

Chapter 26 LAW ENFORCEMENT

The chapter covers the various regulations of the Detroit Police Department, the
Secondary Employment Program within DPD, Citizens Radio Patrol and Private
Security.

0 There are no substantive changes to this chapter. All changes are simply to provide
update wording of the same policies.

Chapter 27 LIBRARY

0 This chapter covers the ability to manage library materials and the creation ?nes for the
destruction and misplacement of materials.
a The penalty provisions have been modi?ed to conform to the Michigan Penal Code.

Chapter 28 LICENSES

The chapter provides the general provisions that govern all business licenses that are
issued by the City. The speci?c requirements for each license is included within the
chapter that creates the particular license.

I There are no substantive changes to this chapter. All changes are simply to provide
update wording of the same policies and correct department names.

Chapter 29 MINORS

I This chapter provides regulations for protection of minors.

A Youth Board is continued in this chapter; however, it unclear whether when this
board was last impaneled.

0 Article IV Street Trades has been removed because is preempted by the Michigan
Youth Employment Standards Act.

0 Article IV Alcoholic Liquor is modi?ed to conform to the Michigan Liquor Control
Code of 1998.

Chapter 30 MOVING AND STORAGE

This chapter covers the regulation and licensure of moving companies, public storage
facilities and trailer rentals.

0 The recodi?ed ordinance removes the requirement that movers provide a report to DPD
within 10 days after each move because the department does not follow this procedure
currently.

0 The requirement to establish the need for each moving company before a license can be
granted. The Business License Center no longer requires this, nor is it equired for other
business licenses.

