 . ?1m my
56 Ctr/3,611,, 0239,09

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

    

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

rs. [0mm Iackson
March 8, 1944 - September 19, 2018

WHEREAS Mrs. Joann Jackson, was a Detroit native. She was a wife for forty-nine years, a
mother of ?ve, grandmother of twelve and a great?grandmother of seven.

WHEREAS Mrs. Joann Jackson has been in politics for over forty-?ve years and has
campaigned for some of the greatest warriors of the City of Detroit, as well as for crucial issues
concerning the City and its Citizens. In 2008, she was also a part of the campaign ?Get Out to
Vote? to help elect President, Barack Obama, and

WHEREAS Mrs. Joann Jackson, had been a committed advocate in her community, serving
on various boards such as: the Michigan Democratic Party, Detroit Neighborhood Housing, 12th
Precinct Coalition, National Action Network, 12th Precinct Community Relations, Martin
Park/Pilgrim Village Neighborhood Improvement, 12th Precinct STEPPERS, and Friends of Belle Isle
Aquarium. Mrs. Joann Jackson also served as Precinct Delegate for the 14?? District, Vice
President of the M.P.L.C.C. and President of the Martin Park District Association, of which she
served two terms, and

WHEREAS Mrs. Joann Jackson, had a love for the City of Detroit and a heart for the people
who reside in it. She has spent most of her life trying to make sure each person's voice was
heard, and NOW THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED On behalf of myself, Council Member Roy McCalister, Jr, and the entire Detroit
City Council we give Mrs. Joann Jackson this blessing, as she returns to the Father. May
the Lord bless you. May the Lord, our God now embrace you and hold you in his love forever.
Amen.

 

 

 

 

   

 

'33 633 SIDE 21353?13 
September 29, 018

DATE

 

 

 

Submitted by Council
Member Casta?eda-L?pez
9/27/2018

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL



In Memoriam

Shirley Ann Belchunas

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

CO PRESIDENT PRO
I

GO lL MEMBER

August 9, 1948 September 23, 2018

Shirley Ann Belchunas was a beloved member of the Southwest Detroit Community.
She made her transition from labor to reward on September 23, 2018; and

Shirley was the Human Resource Manager for Alternative for Girls until her
retirement in 2015. She was also a board member and secretary for Detroit?s Matrix
Theater Company. In 2015, she was recommended and appointed to the City of
Detroit Board of Review by Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez. Shirley
served in this position until December 2017; and

The impact of love and kindness Shirley leaves behind is one that will not be
forgotten. She enjoyed cooking, bird watching, gardening, reading and traveling
wherever the road would take her. She loved spending time with family and friends
alike. Her door was always open and she was always ready to barbeque and cook;
and

Shirley shared all she had, opened her door and heart to anyone in need, and always
had room for just one more. Many have spent time traveling with her and none left
disappointed. She will be missed, but the love she shared with family and friends
will last through eternity; and

Shirley leaves to cherish her memory, her children, Marion Agius, Theresa (Johnny)
Agius-Cowden and Joseph (Stacey) Agius; grandchildren, Sydney Aguis and Alex
Aguis; and sibling, Charles (the late Judy) Belchunas, Kenneth (Sue) Belchunas and
Edward (Annalise) Belchunas. She is also survived by her beloved dog Maggie,
many nieces and nephews, her Gonzalez family and many close and loving friends.
THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez and the entire Detroit City Council extend
our sincere sympathy to the family and friends of the late Shirley Ann Belchunas.

Our thoughts and prayers are with you as you cherish her memory and celebrate her
life.



ax 

MEMBER

   

 

 

 

 

 




in a: gas are: 31331:: 

ILIJ


1.

Submitted

by Council

Member Casta ?eda-Lopez

9/27/2018

 

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED



I



DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

.. 1:7 .


In Memoriam

Tim Kethman

March 5, 1959 September 6, 2018

Tim Kethman?s contributions to the City of Detroit is evident in the legacy of
community service in his beloved Woodbridge community; and

The community activist and humanitarian was an active member of the
Woodbridge Community. He was a member of the Leadership Council of the
Woodbridge Citizen?s Council; member of the Woodbridge Safety Patrol;
Chair, Woodbridge Parks Committee; and, a proud member of the Fourth Street
Community; and

Tim was an animal rights activist. He advocated for the humane treatment of
animals within the Detroit Animal Control Operations and was a foster parent
for the Midwest Boston Terrier Rescue; and

His community spirit lead to receiving a Spirit of Detroit Award in 2017. He
continued this spirit with his work on the revitalization of Scripps Park and the
Rose Dog Park, named in honor of fallen Wayne State Police K9 Of?cer Collin
Rose. Tim and the Woodbridge Parks Committee launched a fundraising effort
to place a medallion and plaque in the park. Tim was there to see the park
of?cially dedicated on May 26, 2018Eugene Kethman and Stella Nail. He was a good neighbor
and community leader who helped with street fairs and volunteered for Motor
City Makeover. He was an ardent lover of Facebook who contributed to many
lively discussions. His voice may be silent but his spirit speaks to all who love
the Woodbridge Community and City of Detroit. THEREFORE BE IT

Council Member Raquel Castaneda-Lopez and the entire Detroit City Council
extend our sincere sympathy to the family and friends of the late Tim Kethman
and the Woodbridge community. Our thoughts and prayers are with you as you
cherish his memory and continue to build his legacy.



 

 

CILMEMBER

 

 

 

 

September 29,
DATE

  

11.1.13

I

THE HEET

r.
.1- 

'zl-Jd a?

.
I.

