 Lit-9' hat/1m WM
J?l. 00.0137

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Resolved,

couN E. Ft poy 
1'

81:5" GM LM BER
WW E3





DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

RESOLUTION

In Memoriam

Melvin Brazier, Jr.

We, the members of the Detroit City Council, solemnly pause today to recognize and bestow homage upon the
late, Melvin Brazier, Sr., a beloved family member; and

MELVIN BRAZIER, JR. was born on March 12, 1942, in Eufaula, Alabama. He was the third child born to the
late Hattie and Melvin Brazier, Sr. MELVIN BRAZIER, JR. was preceded in death by his siblings: Norman and
Edward. MELVIN BRAZIER, JR. accepted Christ at an early age and was baptized at First African Baptist
Church in Eufaula, Alabama. Later in life he joined Bible Believer Baptist Church of Cerritos, and

MELVIN ?8 parents encouraged all their children to seek higher education. After graduating from T.V. McCoo
High School in 1960, he attended Tennessee State University in Nashville, Tennessee, graduating in 1965 with a
Bachelor of Science Degree in Electrical Engineering. Later, he obtained a Master of Science Degree in Electrical
Engineering from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). MELVIN BRAZIER, JR. began his career
with George C. Marshall Space Center in Huntsville, Alabama. After spending a year with George C. Marshall

Space Center, his love for mathematics and science led him to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA) in Cape Canaveral, Florida as in engineer; and

Due to social inequality and the treatment of African Americans in the south, MELVIN BRAZIER, JR. decided
to hit Route 66 to California in pursuit of better opportunities. He joined Hughes Aircraft designing helicopters for
the Department of Defense. He later transitioned to Thomas Ramos Wooldridge, (TRW, Inc.) as a ?eld engineer.
As his career continued to grow, he moved into a Senior Test Engineer position. In 1998, MELVIN BRAZIER,
JR. retired from Northrop Grumman formerly known as TRW, Inc. His entrepreneurial spirit rose after retirement
and he started many business ventures specializing in real estate projects throughout Southern California. As he
traveled the world during retirement, he enjoyed the continental United States and abroad especially, France and
Ausn'alia. MELVIN BRAZIER, JR. never lost the thirst for sharing knowledge whether solicited or unsolicited
with his family, especially his sisters Ann and Carrie. He loved to talk about politics, often spending hours on the
phone discussing the latest political issues. He was overjoyed in November 2008, when a young Senator named
Barak Obama won the presidency of the United States of America; and

On Thursday, August 30, 2018, MELVIN BRAZIER, JR. was called home for eternal rest. have fought the
good ?ght, I have ?nished my course, 1 have kept the faith. 2 Timothy 4: 7. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and the of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones hereby expresses its
condolences and joins with family and friends in celebrating the life of MELVIN BRAZIER, JR.

3.9.4.. 97-w?

COUNCIL 

1 AA #4

SIDENT PFIT '5 1' COUNCIL MEMBEFI



a
it?

  

 

 

 

UJ
1.4

El

September 7, 2018/ 11':
DATE 

 

 

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

J,

I

.IL MEMBER



H-v

GIN

NT
coumcu DE 
A 
. -A?d 1.. . If."

ENT 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
To wanton/i621). 01% than
Spirit of Detroit 60th? Anniversary

The Board of Commissioners of the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority (DWJBA) and elected of?cials of
the City of Detroit and County of Wayne, are pleased to commemorate the 60th Anniversary of the ?Spirit of
Detroit sculpture. The iconic sculpture was commissioned in 1955, dedicated on September 23, 1958 and
reaches its of?cial 60lh Anniversary on September 23, 2018. We would also like to acknowledge and give

special thanks to the members of the 60th Anniversary advisory planning committee for helping to make this
commemorative event a reality; and

The widely?recognized ?Spirit of Detroit? sculpture was ?rst envisioned by sculptor artist Marshall M.
Fredericks, who was commissioned by the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority. Work on the sculpture
began in 1955, when a cast was made in Oslo, Norway and transported by ship-to the City of Detroit; and

Created as a symbol of the basic hope of humanity and the spirit of man, the sculpture has become the iconic
treasure of the city and is recognized throughout the world as a global landmark representing the City of
Detroit. The sculpture emphasized the symbolism of progress for the city, representing that the ?Spirit of
Detroit" endures forever. A plaque placed in front of the statue further supports the use of religion and
sentimental meaning which was important to sculptor Fredericks. The plaque reads: ?God, through the spirit of
man is manifested in the family, the noblest human relationship.? The marble wall behind the sculpture features

a verse from the bible in 2 Corinthians. and the seals of both the City of Detroit and Wayne County are
prominently displayed; and

In the left hand is the gilt bronze sphere emanating rays to symbolize divinity and God, while its right hand
holds a family being lifted up by the ?Spirit of Detroit, symbolizing all human relationships. Sculptor
Fredericks sought a consensus from representatives of several different religions when designing the God aspect
of the work. The sphere idea was the consensus Fredericks wanted to represent and inspire Detroiters; and

When installed, the 26-foot sculpture was the largest cast bronze statue since the Renaissance period. In 2008,
$170,000 in restoration improvements were made to the ?Spirit of Detroit" sculpture, in time for its 50th
Anniversary. Restoration funds came ?'om operational saving; primarily through energy conservation. Today?s

appraised value is $6 million. As a goal of the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority, the sculpture has
become the recognized image for various city departments; and

The ?Spirit of Detroit? means so many things to so many people. This monumental sculpture represents the

spirit of the city and its people. It is an important part of Detroit?s legacy and will play a pivotal role in its
future. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, does hereby award this

Testimonial Resolution to the Detroit-Wayne Joint Building Authority (DWJ BA) in commemoration of the 60?h
Anniversary of the ?Spirit ofDetroit? statue.

 

 

 

 

COUNCIL MEMBE 

(i 5

af?x


 

 

 



.. 


"r dbl/Jr 

. - I g:
September 1, 2018 r?

 

DATE

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHERE

AS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

. . . COUNCIL 
'il
NCIL- I

If;

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL .
. - ?7 -
Minaliterati-aria 39
Rev. Buell David Curry

Pastoral Installation

It is with great pleasure and privilege that we, the members of the Detroit City Council, extend
congratulations to REV. BUELL DAVID CURRY as he is of?cially installed as the Pastor of Wayside
Missionary Baptist Church on September 30, 2018; and

Born in Houston, Texas and raised on Detroit?s eastside, BUELL CURRY attended Trans?guration
Elementary and Middle School. He graduated from Loyola High School and later enrolled at Wayne State

University and the University of Phoenix. earning a Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice with a
minor in Human Services; and

He grew up under the tutelage and pastoral leadership of the late Rev. Dr. Sterling L. Jones of Mt. Zion
Missionary Baptist Church. REV. CURRY ?rst experienced God?s power at age ?ve when he made his
confession of faith and was baptized. Through the years, he served the church in many capacities as a member
of the usher board and choir, co-president of the youth department and junior deacon. In 2007, he accepted the
call of God upon his life to preach the gospel. He started preaching for the Baptist training union, revivals.
conferences, other churches and occasionally ?lled in for Dr. Jones at guest churches on his behalf. In March
2014. REV. CURRY was ordained under Dr. Jones, with Pastor Curtis Grant of the Zion Hope Baptist
Church performing the ceremony and ordination process. Along the way, he received valuable training and
wisdom from both Pastor Grant and Bishop Michael Jones of Fountain of Truth Church. At Mt. Zion, REV.
CURRY served as an associate minister and also taught Sunday school and Men?s bible study. He was

eventually appointed to teach bible study for the entire church membership. The Mt. Zion bible study class
grew by leaps and bounds under his teaching tenure; and

As a member of the clergy, REV. CURRY has executed many administrative and ministerial duties. He is
also actively engaged in community outreach and served for several years under Pastor Vincent Yancey,
developing programs to educate, build social awareness and teach the virtues of life to inner-city youth.
REV. CURRY values the life lessons learned from his late grandfather, Deacon Buell Porter, his
grandmother, Deaconess Mary L. Porter and mother, Evangelist Dr. Denyse P. Jones, and other family
members that have helped him get to this point. REV. CURRY is the devoted husband of Kathleen Raytea
Curry and proud father of their daughter, Zion Aleece Curry. REV. BUELL DAVID CURRY is an anointed

teacher of the Gospel. who uses his gifts and talents to praise, empower and encourage the people of God.
NOW. THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, hereby joins with friends and

family in honoring REV. BUELL DAVID CURRY on this momentous occasion of his of?cial Pastoral
Installation.

 

?l

COUNCIL MEMB 

 

 

  

September 30, 2018

DATE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL b1

Deborah Fitzgerald Copeland

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Resolved,

NCIL 1" EMBE

 

It is with great pleasure and privilege that we, the members of the Detroit City Council,
recognize and bestow honor upon Deborah Fitzgerald Copeland, for her dedication and
service to the Detroit Fisk Club; and

DEBORAH FITZGERALD COPELAND was born and raised in Detroit, Michigan. She
graduated from Central High School in June of 1966. Being a third generation iskite, she
would attend Fisk University from 1966-1970, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in English. Later,
she would attend Atlanta University, English Master?s Program; and

Two years after graduating from Fisk University, DEBORAH FITZGERALD COPELAND
returned to teach Freshman English from 1972-1974. Upon returning to Michigan, she worked
for the Bell Broadcasting Company, from 1974-1994. She ?rst held the
position of Account Executive and later accepted a position as Local Sales Manager. From
2002-2007, DEBORAH FITZGERALD COPELAND worked at N?Namdi Gallery as
Assistant Manager; and

DEBORAH FITZGERALD COPELAND married her childhood and Fisk University
classmate, Wilson Albert Copeland on December 29, 1971. From that union they were blessed
with a daughter, Lauren Fitzgerald Copeland N?Namdi, a son-in-law Jumaane N?Namdi, and
one special granddaughter, Nataki N?Namdi; and

DEBORAH FITZGERALD COPELAND has served on the board of many organizations:
Detroit Fisk Club, Nataki Talibah Schoolhouse, Behavioral Health of Henry Ford Health

System and Palmer Woods Association. She is a member of Delta Sigma Theta, Alpha Beta
Chapter. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Council President Brenda Jones, hereby presents this
Testimonial Resolution to DEBORAH FITZGERALD COPELAND for her positive
contributions to the Detroit Fisk Club.

 

 

 

 

    

 

tie

a

$19.

a

5:2

.. . E51

COLIN IL MEMBER I Li"
September 15, 2018 

 

DATE

Whereas,

Whereas.

Whereas.

Whereas.

Resolved,

  
 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

3?
GRANDPARENTS RAISING 3

GRANDCHILDREN DAY

Nearly six million children and 1.5 million grandparents currently live in grandparent-
grandchild households. These households face unique daily challenges. Grandparents caring for
grandchildren provide a critical service for the bene?t of the children and the children's
parents. but also it provides a bene?t to the public responsibility; and

Grandparent caregiting is not a new phenomenon; Kin care has historically been part of family
life here in the United States. President Barack Obama familial experiences is one notable
example of this practice. Since the mid?19905. several social conditions have caused the
number of grandparents who are raising their grandchildren to increase signi?cantly. Parental
addition and incarceration. child abuse and neglect. and economic factors all have contributed
to a rise in the number of custodial grandparents: and

As grandchild care has become more visible. concerns have arisen that these bene?ts may come
at the cost of grandparents? well-being. The impacr of caring for grandchildren on
grandparents? health is a particular focus oi?concern. Compared with non-caregiving peers.
grandparents who are raising their grandchildren haw more extensive health problems. Often
the grandchildren?s needs are prioritized over those of the grandparents whether tinancral,
time or when there are limited resources; and

Despite these challenges, these grandparents gladly take on the charge of loving and caring for
their grandchildren. The reward to the family is greater than the cost; NOW THEREFORE

BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and otlice of Council President Brenda Jones in
commemoration of Grandparents Raising Grandchildren Day, salute all grandparents who
sel?essly assume the responsibility of rearing the next generation of strong American citizens.
and declares the month of September 2018 ?Grandparents Raising Grandchildren Month?.

COUNCIL Mi: I'lBl: 



CID



LU




 

2%?Un??me?mal?ff?? if;

51?


__Se_ptemb_ei' _14, 2018

DATE

 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

. . 9 .
it? 81:5. {1 6g

NATIONAL BLACK MBA ASSOCIATION

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Whereas,

Resolved,

(Zia?a
- My 4/

The National Black MBA Association was incorporated in 1971 in New York. In 1976,
the third chapter of the association was incorporated in Detroit, Michigan, and has a
mission to lead in the creation of educational opportunities and economic growth for Black
professionals; and

The National Black MBA Association is a membership organization comprised of over
10,000 members and 30 local chapters across the globe. The organization uses ?ve
channels of engagement: education, career, leadership,

entrepreneurship, and lifestyle to create intellectual and economic wealth in the Black
community; and

The National Black MBA Association, the premier business organization for minority
professionals launched its scholarship program in 1984 and has awarded over $5 million to
deserving students. In 1996, the National Black MBA Association established Leaders of
Tomorrow (LOT), a leadership and development program for high school students.
Students are taught Leadership, Financial Literacy, College Preparation, and Career
Preparation. Over 8,000 talented youth have been mentored through this program; and

In October 1979, the National Black MBA Association, held its annual conference and
exposition in Detroit, Michigan, with the theme, ?The Black MBA: Challenges,
Opportunities, Problems, and Expectations?. On September 25-29, 2018, the National
Black MBA Association will hold its 40th annual conference and exposition in Detroit,
Michigan, at COBO Center with the theme, ?One Voice, One Mission. Mr. Jesse Tyson is
the President Chief Executive Of?cer of National Black MBA Association, and Mrs.
Paulina Johnson is the Detroit Chapter?s President. The National Black MBA Association
appreciates them for their dedication and leadership. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones recognizes
and welcomes the National Black MBA Association to the City of Detroit.

 

 

    

4?

..
I . . 

 

 

 

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED



4'17
44 .

1) IL MEMBE 



DETROIT CITY COUNCIL
. . .
To ashram/few %5..a&mm 
[audia (Mae freeman may

Happy 100?a Birt?d?y

Claudia Mae Freeman Miller was born September 29, 1918 in Heflin, Alabama.

She is the oldest twin to her brother, James, who proceeded her in death. Although
Claudia gave birth to only one child, John Edward, she is known as Mother to
many. She came to Detroit, Michigan with her family to live when she was sixteen
years old; and

Claudia and her brother James had an open?door policy at the home they shared
on Montclair and Charlevoix (on the eastside of Detroit) and it was where family
members migrating from the south could come and live until they got on their feet.
This act began a beautiful relationship with the Montclair Street community. She
became known around the neighborhood for cooking her large Sunday and Holiday
dinners and feeding and clothing people; and

Claudia and her brother James were co-presidents of the Montclair Block Club and
won many awards for their elaborate Christmas decorations throughout the 1960?s
and 1970?s. She was a faithful member of the Mary Palmer Methodist Church and a
member of the Church Bowling Team; and

Claudia retired from the Pontchartrain Hotel where she received an award for 30
years of Service. She also received a letter from President Bill Clinton and medals
from her track days as a teenager, just to name a few. Recently, she was captured
in a photo by CNN News with her great great grandson, Edward, as he wheeled her
in line to pay her respects to the Queen of Soul, Aretha Franklin at the public
viewing at New Bethel Baptist Church. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council, Office of Council President Brenda Jones along
with family and friends would like to take this time to honor you as we celebrate
your Special Day. Happy 100th Birthday, your family loves you! May God continue
to bless you!

COUNCIL ENT

   

Ii i'
,r


 

 

 

n-
rile-u
?tcmber 29;-018

 

 

DATE

.

Kilt?i - 

