RESOLUTIONS

/3

BY COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO-TEM 

RESOLUTION OF THE DETROIT CITY COUNCIL ENUNCIATING THE HOMELESS
BILL OF RIGHTS FOR CITIZENS OF THE CITY OF DETROIT

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

Many persons have been rendered homeless as a result of mortgage or tax
foreclosure brought on by economic hardship, a severe shortage of habitable,
affordable housing, a shrinking social safety net, mental de?ciencies amongst a
myriad of causes absent of choice; and

The United States Constitution, the State of Michigan Constitution acknowledge
that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process
of law, nor denied the equal protection of the laws; and

This Honorable Body is in agreement with those fundamental beliefs ?nds that
no person should suffer unnecessarily or be subject to unfair discrimination
based upon their homeless status; and BE IT THEREFORE

That the Detroit City Council hereby enunciate that the citizens of the City of
Detroit who ?nd their status to be that of homelessness, are stated to have the
herein listed Homeless Bill of Rights:

HOMELESS BILL OF RIGHTS

No person?s rights, privileges, or access to public services may be denied or abridged solely
because he or she is homeless. Each person identi?ed as homeless shall be granted the same
rights and privileges as any other resident of the City of Detroit. A person experiencing

homelessness:

(1) Has the right to use and move freely in public spaces, including, but not limited to, public
sidewalks, public parks, public tranSportation and public buildings in the same manner as
any other individual without harassment or discrimination on the basis of his or her
housing status;

(2) Has the right to equal treatment by all City of Detroit Departments and agencies, without
discrimination on the basis of his or her housing status;

(3) Has the right to be free from discrimination while seeking or maintaining employment
due to his or her lack of permanent mailing address, or his or her mailing address is that
of a shelter or social service provider;

(4) Has the right to emergency medical care free from discrimination based upon his or her
housing status;

(5) Has a right to register to vote and to vote;

(6) Has the right to protection from disclosure of personal information to public and private
entities without proper legal authority of his or her records or information provided to
homeless shelters and service providers; and the right to con?dentiality of personal
records and information in accordance with all limitations on disclosure established by
requirements under the Federal Homeless Management Information System, the Federal
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), or the Federal
Violence Against Women Act of 1994;

(7) Has a right to a reasonable expectation of privacy in his or her personal property to the
same extent as personal property in a pennanth residence; and

(8) Has the right to be acknowledged and counted as a person during the annual census.

As referenced in this Homeless Bill of Rights ?Housing status? means the status of having or not
having a ?xed or regular residence, including the status of living on the streets, in a shelter, or in
a temporary residence.

 Glitz) of Eaetrutt 

CITY COUNCIL 71::

MARY SHEFFIELD 

COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE 3

 

 

DISTRICT 5

EMORANDUM

TO: David Whitaker, Director, Legislative Policy Division

FROM: Council President Pro Tempore Mmeld, Chair, Neighborhoods and
Community Services Committe .?Vl 9 

THRU: James Tate, Chair, Planning an onomic Development Committee

DATE: July 10, 2018

RE: Homeless Bill of Rights Ordinance

 

Please draft an ordinance creating a ?Homeless Bill of Rights? that codi?es certain rights
for homeless individuals staying in publicly funded temporary shelters. Please use the
attached document as a minimum guideline for what should be included in the ordinance.
Please consult the Traverse City, Michigan and Baltimore, Maryland Homeless Bill of
Rights legislations as a guideline.

Thank you for your prompt response.

.INTERED JULZSINB Qe-"fim ?to WP 5?3 399 (0 (alb?m?

ENTERED 433- ?medm {71 

ENTERED 333202013 #63 i 5/3) (3W 9' 

(an i i/Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-4505 Fax (313) 224-0367


 

I 

4k . 

?naturism?

Homeless Bill of Rights
What is it?

A homeless bill of rights is a set of guiding principles and policies aimed at ensuring that ALL
Detroiters have access to life sustaining resources. It provides local citizens with a ?right to rest?
and ?ghts against the criminalization of those who are without shelter.

Criminalization of the homeless is nothing new and is part of the national status quo. It's based
on the broken-windows theory that addressing anti-social behavior will drive down more serious
crimes. But the policing tactic unfairly singles out some groups especially black and Hispanic
people and the poor and results in the removing of panhandlers and the mentally disabled
from public spaces.

We believe that in order to create a Detroit that works for all, we must work to provide resources
for those who are considered the least to the.

We believe that basic rights for homeless and temporarily displaced individuals include:

1. Access basic requirement necessary for sustaining life, including shelter,
sanitation, medical care, clothing, and food;

2. Move freely in public places in the same manner as other persons without
harassment or intimidation;
a. Policing dropping people off on other side of 8 Mile Dearborn

3. Have equal opportunities for employment;
a. People using shelter address, not being hiring

4. Receive emergency medical care;

5. Exercise equal civic privileges, including the right to register to vote and the
right to vote;

6. Have personal information protected;

7. Have a reasonable expectation of privacy in his or her personal property;

RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with
Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(e) to consult with Law
Department litigation attorneys and T. Joseph Seward of Seward Henderson PLLC
regarding trial or settlement strategy in the following lawsuit: Davorztae Sanford v. City of
Detroit, US. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan Case No. l7-cv-13062 as

an open meeting would have detrimental ?nancial effect on the litigating or settlement
position of the public body. Attorneys from the Legislative Policy Division may also be
present. The closed session will be held on Wednesday, October 24, 2018 at 2:30 pm.

 

Note: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant
to MCL 

 Law Dept. Dated: October 6, 2018

If

RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with Section
8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(a) to consider the dismissal,
suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or charges brought against, or to consider a
periodic personnel evaluation of, a public of?cer, employee, staff member, or individual agent.
Both the Law Department and Detroit Police Department have recommended approval of the
request for representation and indemni?cation of Lt. Michael Russell in the matter of Davorttae
Sanford v. City ofDetroit, US. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan Case No. 17-
cv-l3062. The request for representation and indemni?cation will be discussed with Law
Department attorneys, T. Joseph Seward of Seward Henderson PLLC, representatives from the
Detroit Police Department, Lt. Russell and his counsel, representatives of the Detroit Police
Lieutenants and Sergeants Association, as well as attorneys from the Legislative Policy Division.
The closed session will be held on Wednesday, October 24, 2018 at 3:00 pm.

 

Notes: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
1 5. 26 

tar-1i 15? 53'



l?.T 


.-.
i_l

a?


rung; 8.:
LI.

Law Dept. Dated: October 6, 2018

'l'l



RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with Section
8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(a) to consider the dismissal,
suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or charges brought against, or to consider a
periodic personnel evaluation of, a public of?cer, employee, staff member, or individual agent.
Both the Law Department and Detroit Police Department have recommended approval of the
request for representation and indemni?cation of retired DC James Tolbert in the matter of
Davontae Sanford v. City of Detroit, US. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan Case
No. l7?cv-13062. The request for representation and indemni?cation will be discussed with Law
Department attorneys, T. Joseph Seward of Seward Henderson PLLC, representatives from the
Detroit Police Department, Ret. DC James Tolbert and his counsel, representatives of the Detroit
Police Lieutenants and Sergeants Association, as well as attorneys from the Legislative Policy
Division. The closed session will be held on Wednesday, October 24, 2018 at 3:30 pm.

 

Notes: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
I 5. 267(1).

 Law Dept. Dated: October 6, 2018

/7

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with Section
8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(a) at the request of Det. Jennifer Lee
Adams to consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or charges
brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public of?cer, employee, staff
member, or individual agent. The Law Department?s recommendation to deny indemni?cation of
Det. Jennifer Lee Adams in the matter of Keri-Yakei Morris v. City of Detroit, Civil Action
Number 17-013266-NO will be discussed with Law Department attorneys, representatives from
the Detroit Police Department, Det. Jennifer Lee Adams and counsel, representatives from the
Detroit Police Lieutenants and Sergeants Association, as well as attorneys from the Legislative
Policy Division. The closed session will be held on Wednesday, November 7, 2018 at 2:00 pm.

RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

 

Notes: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
1 5. 26 

A person requesting a closed hearing may rescind the request at any time, in which case
the matter at issue shall be considered a?er the rescission only in open sessions pursuant to MCL
I 5. 268(a).




. 
Lcriv?Dcpt. Dated: October 6, 2018

/7

RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with
Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL for the purposes of
discussing a privileged and con?dential memorandum titled Wrongful Incarceration Litigation,
October 1, 2018. This memorandum is an attorney-client communication prepared by the Law
Department and therefore is exempt from disclosure under Section 13(g) of the Freedom of
Information Act, MCL 15 Law Department attorneys, representatives from the Finance
Department, as well as attorneys from the Legislative Policy Division may be present. The closed

session will be held on:

Thursday, November 8, 2018 at 2:00 pm.

 

Note: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
I 5. 26 

Lav-(Dept. Dated: October 6, 2018


L-ml
Lil

RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with
Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(a) at the request of PO.
Hakeem Patterson to consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints
or charges brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public of?cer,
employee, staff member, or individual agent. The representation and indemni?cation of PO.
Hakeem Patterson in the matter of Michaelangelo Jackson et al. City of Detroit et al., Wayne
County Circuit Court Case No: 18-001339 NI, will be discussed with Law Department attorneys,
representatives from the Detroit Police Department, P.O. Hakeem Patterson and James M. Moore,
Esq. of the Law Of?ce of Gregory, Moore, Jeakle Brooks, PC, on behalf of PO. Patterson, the
Detroit Police Of?cers Association as well as attorneys from the Legislative Policy Division. The

closed session will be held on:

Friday, November 9, 2018 at 12:00 p.m.

 

Notes: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
1 5. 26 

A person requesting a closed hearing may rescind the request at any time, in which case
the matter at issue shall be considered after the rescission only in open sessions pursuant to MCL



This closed session (commonly referred to as a Loudermill hearing is a due process
requirement pursuant to the US. Supreme Court ?s holding in Cleveland Board ni'Educatior-i v.
Loudermill 470 US 532 (1985). Arbitration awards issued by the Voluntary Labor Arbitration
Tribunal recognize the past practice of City Council holding hearings for police ojj?icers who have
been denied representation (see Grievance Nos. 79-23 7, 82-055, 90-04 7, and The
request for the hearing was not triggered in this case as both the Law Department and DPD
recommended approval of representation and indemnification. P. 0. Patterson is entitled to
receive and the City of Detroit is required to hold this hearing.

 

Law Dept. Dated: October 8, 2018

?7

20

RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with
Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(a) at the request of P.O. Steven
Fultz to consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints or charges
brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public of?cer, employee, staff
member, or individual agent. The representation and indemni?cation of PO. Steven Fultz in the
matter of Michaelangelo Jackson et al. City of Detroit et al., Wayne County Circuit Court Case
No: 18?001339 NI, will be discussed with Law Department attorneys, representatives from the
Detroit Police Department, PO. Steven Fultz and James M. Moore, Esq. of the Law Of?ce of
Gregory, Moore, Jeakle Brooks, PC, on behalf of PO. Fultz, the Detroit Police Of?cers
Association as well as attorneys from the Legislative Policy Division. The closed session will be

held on:
Friday, November 9, 2018 at 12:30 p.m.

 

Notes: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
1 

A person requesting a closed hearing may rescind the request at any time, in which case
the matter at issue shall be considered after the rescission only in open sessions pursuant to MCL



This closed session (commonly referred to as a Loudermill hearing is a due process
requirement pursuant to the US. Supreme Court?s holding in (Tier-wand Board of Education v.
Loudermill. 470 US 532 (1985). Arbitration awards issued by the Voluntary Labor Arbitration
Tribunal recognize the past practice of City Council holding hearings for police o?icers who have
been denied representation (see Grievance Nos. 79-23 7, 82-055, 90-04 7, and The
request for the hearing was not triggered in this case as both the Law Department and DPD
recommended approval of representation and indemni?cation. P. O. Fultz is entitled to receive

and the City of Detroit is required to hold this hearing.

 Dept. Dated: October 8, 2018

?rm?:1
- 

- an

in?? '3



.ri. 

a. 


.-



I

I



RESOLUTION TO CALL CLOSED SESSION

RESOLVED, that a closed session of the Detroit City Council is called in accordance with
Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, MCL 15.268(a) at the request of PC.
Richard Billingslea to consider the dismissal, suspension, or disciplining of, or to hear complaints
or charges brought against, or to consider a periodic personnel evaluation of, a public of?cer,
employee, staff member, or individual agent. The representation and indemni?cation of PO.
Richard Billingslea in the matter of Michaelangelo Jackson et al. City of Detroit et al., Wayne
County Circuit Court Case No: 18-001339 NI, will be discussed with Law Department attorneys,
representatives from the Detroit Police Department, PO. Richard Billingslea and James M. Moore,
Esq. of the Law Of?ce of Gregory, Moore, Jeakle Brooks, PC, on behalf of PO. Richard
Billingslea, the Detroit Police Of?cers Association as well as attorneys from the Legislative Policy

Division. The closed session will be held on:

Friday, November 9, 2018 at 1:00 p.m.

 

Notes: A 2/3 Roll Call vote of members elected and serving (6 votes) is required pursuant to MCL
15. 267(1).

A person requesting a closed hearing may rescind the request at any time, in which case
the matter at issue shall be considered after the rescission only in open sessions pursuant to MCL



This closed session (commonly referred to as a Loudermill hearing is a due process
requirement pursuant to the US. Supreme Court?s holding in Cieveianri Board of Education 
470 US 532 (1985). Arbitration awards issued by the Voluntary Labor Arbitration
Tribunal recognize the past practice of City Council holding hearings for police o?icers who have
been denied representation (see Grievance Nos. 79-23 7, 82-055, 90-04 7, and The
request for the, hearing was not triggered in this case as both the Law Department and DPD
recommended approval of representation and indemni?cation. P. O. Billingslea is entitled to

receive and the City of Detroit is required to hold this hearing.

 

Law Dept. Dated: October 8, 2018

