BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Cook County Building, Board Room, 118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA
Thursday, March 21, 2019, 10:00 AM

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Pursuant to Cook County Code of Ordinances, public testimony will be permitted at regular and special
meetings of the Board. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon at this time to deliver
testimony germane to a specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three
(3) minutes. The names of duly authorized speakers shall be published in the Post Board Action Agenda
and Journal of Proceedings as prepared by the Clerk of the Board.
PRESIDENT

19-2121
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Lamarr X Miller
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: South Cook County Mosquito Abatement District
Effective date: 4/25/2019
Expiration date: 4/25/2023

19-2124
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED REAPPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Robin Torch
Position: Trustee
Department/Board/Commission: Mission Brook Sanitary District Board of Trustees
Effective date: 5/1/2019
Expiration date: 5/1/2022

Page 2 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Summary: Reappointment of Robin Torch as Trustee

19-2219
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): John Yonan
Position: Advisory Council Member
Department/Board/Commission:

Brownfields

Redevelopment

&

Intermodal

Promotion

Act’s

Promotion

Act’s

Advisory Council
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 3/21/2022

19-2224
Presented by: TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Jay Stewart
Position: Advisory Council Member
Department/Board/Commission:

Brownfields

Redevelopment

Advisory Council
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: 3/21/2022

Page 3 of 58

&

Intermodal

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-2393
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ESTABLISHING A PARTNERSHIP AMONG THE DuSABLE MUSEUM, UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO, AND COOK COUNTY, TO SECURE AND INSTALL A
HISTORICAL MARKER FROM THE EQUAL JUSTICE INITIATIVE MEMORIALIZING
THE LOCATION OF THE LYNCHING OF WILLIAM BELL
WHEREAS, the Equal Justice Initiative (EJI) has identified that William Bell, an American of African
descent, was murdered by a lynch mob in Cook County in the Maxwell Street area of Chicago, on or
about October 8, 1924; and
WHEREAS, the EJI has created the National Memorial for Peace and Justice, which memorializes
lynchings in over 800 counties where they are known to have occurred across the United States; and
WHEREAS, Cook County, the DuSable Museum, and the University of Illinois at Chicago have jointly
submitted an application to EJI to receive a marker and install it at an undetermined location; and
WHEREAS, engaging in a public acknowledgment of such types of violence is important for the victims,
bystanders and survivors who may suffer from trauma related to systematic violence and dehumanization;
and
WHEREAS, the partners commit to convene and lead a representative group of the County, descendants
of Mr. Bell, and other interested parties and organizations to achieve this goal; and
WHEREAS, the partners do hereby commit to work in partnership with EJI of Montgomery, Alabama, to
secure and install a historical marker, through their Community Remembrance Project; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the President and Cook County Board of
Commissioners that Cook County recognizes the importance of this partnership and undertaking of this
project that will shed light on our history.

Page 4 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

COMMISSIONERS

19-2242
Sponsored by: JOHN P. DALEY, LARRY SUFFREDIN and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County
Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REQUESTING A HEARING OF THE LITIGATION SUBCOMMITTEE TO DISCUSS THE
STATUS OF SHAKMAN COMPLIANCE IN THE OFFICES OF THE COOK COUNTY
CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT, THE COOK COUNTY RECORDER OF DEEDS AND
THE COOK COUNTY ASSESSOR
WHEREAS, violations of the Shakman Consent Decree in the Cook County Clerk of the Circuit Court’s
office have cost taxpayers a total of over $275,000 through February 2019; and
WHEREAS, violations of the Shakman Consent Decree in the Cook County Assessor’s office have cost
taxpayers a total of over $2.5 million dollars through February 2019; and
WHEREAS, violations of the Shakman Consent Decree in the Cook County Recorder of Deed’s office
have cost taxpayers a total of over $2.4 million dollars through February 2019; and
WHEREAS, recent reports from the court appointed compliance administrators have identified continuing
problems that must be addressed to achieve compliance; and
WHEREAS, in 2018, Cook County was found to be compliant with the Shakman Decree; and
WHEREAS, reaching compliance with the Shakman Decree in the offices of the Cook County Clerk of
the Circuit Court, the Cook County Assessor and the Cook County Recorder of Deeds will result in
significant cost savings to Cook County taxpayers; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby request that a meeting of the Litigation Subcommittee be convened to discuss the status of
Shakman Compliance in the offices of the Cook County Clerk of the Circuit Court, the Cook County
Assessor and the Cook County Recorder of Deeds; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Shakman Compliance Administrators, officials from the
Office of the Independent Inspector General and officials from the offices of the Cook County Clerk of
the Circuit Court, the Cook County Assessor and the Cook County Recorder of Deeds appear before the
Subcommittee and be prepared to update the Subcommittee members on the status of Shakman
compliance in each office.

Page 5 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-2292
Sponsored by: JOHN P. DALEY, LARRY SUFFREDIN, ALMA E. ANAYA, LUIS ARROYO JR,
SCOTT R. BRITTON, DENNIS DEER, BRIDGET DEGNEN, BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON
JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, DONNA MILLER, STANLEY MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN
M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI, DEBORAH SIMS and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook
County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
URGING THE ILLINOIS GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO AMEND
CODE REGARDING THE SENIOR CITIZENS HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION

THE

PROPERTY

TAX

WHEREAS, Cook County senior homeowners may reduce their tax bills by hundreds or even thousands
of dollars a year by taking advantage of the Senior Citizens Homestead Exemption; and
WHEREAS, the Senior Citizens Homestead Exemption reduces the Equalized Assessed Value (EAV) of
a home, which is multiplied by the tax rate to determine a homeowner’s tax bill; and
WHEREAS, to receive the Senior Citizens Homestead Exemption, an applicant must have owned and
occupied the property as of January 1 and must have been 65 years of age or older during the tax year in
question; and
WHEREAS, under current state law, senior citizen homeowners must re-apply for the Senior Citizens
Homestead Exemption every year; and
WHEREAS, the Illinois General Assembly is currently considering various legislative proposals to
eliminate the need for qualifying senior homeowners already granted the Seniors Citizens Homestead
Exemption to reapply annually for the Senior Citizens Homestead Exemption; and
WHEREAS, The Cook County Treasurer’s office reported thousands of taxpayers who had previously
received a senior exemption didn't renew this year and, countywide, seniors can save an average of $300
a year in property taxes with the exemption; and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of Cook County senior homeowners for the Cook County Board of
Commissioners to support efforts by the Illinois General Assembly to streamline and simplify the Senior
Citizens Homestead Exemption process; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby urge the Illinois General Assembly to amend the Property Tax Code regarding the Senior Citizens
Homestead Exemption and eliminate the necessity of senior homeowners to apply annually for the
exemption; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a suitable copy of this Resolution be tendered to the Speaker of

Page 6 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

the Illinois House of Representatives, the President of the Illinois Senate and the Governor of Illinois.
19-2349
Sponsored by: DENNIS DEER and STANLEY MOORE, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
SMALL BUSINESS COMMISSION FOR COOK COUNTY
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners that Chapter 2 Administration,
Article III, County Board, Division sections 2-531 through 2-533 of the Cook County Code, is hereby
enacted as Follows:
Sec. 2-531. Short Title.

This Division shall be known and may be cited as the “Cook County Commission on Small Business and
Supplier Diversity.
Sec. 2-532. Policy and Purpose.

(a) There is hereby created a Commission to help create sustainable small business initiatives that
promote business opportunities, financial growth and further development and expansion of small and
minority businesses and businesses that are owned by people with disabilities.
(b) Explore issues and barriers that prevent small businesses, women owned
businesses owned by people with disabilities and minority owned businesses from being successful.
(c) Meet and exceed procurement existing procurement
practices that facilitate meeting contracting and subcontracting goals.

goals.

Research

and

businesses,

promote

best

(d) Review compliance code and compliance of Cook County Agencies.
(e) Review and recommend best practices to reduce access to capital challenges faced by
minority, women owned businesses and businesses owned by people with disabilities.
(f) Review and make recommendations on how Cook County Hospital System and other County
agencies can increase the participation of minority, women owned businesses and businesses owned by
people with disabilities.
Sec. 2-533. Cook County Commission on Small Business.

(a) The Commission will have eleven (11) members including: two (2) Commissioners who were
the original co-sponsors of the ordinance who shall serve as Chair and Co-Chair of the Commission. Four
(4) of the Commission members shall be selected by the Chair and Co-Chair and must be certified MBE

Page 7 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

or WBE business. owners certified by Cook County.Five (5) members of the Commission shall be
appointed by the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners and may include but not be
limited to: representatives of Cook County Agencies, civic leaders, majority contractors or private sector
representatives who have established excellent diversity practices. All shall be confirmed by the Cook
County Board.
(b) Non-elected Board Members will serve for two (2) years and can be reappointed for
consecutive terms. Commissioners who are appointed shall serve (4) year terms that coincides with
election cycles of commissioners.
(c) The Commission has the authority to review and make recommendations on approval or
reversal of certification appeals.
(d) The Commission will advise the Presidents office and Board of Commissioners not less than
quarterly on its recommendations.
(e) The Commission shall have Four (4) Committees 1. Compliance Monitoring, 2. Certification
Advisory Team 3. Outreach/Mentoring and Training 4. Capital Access/Banking
All meetings of the Commission will be open to the public
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

19-2297
Sponsored by: BILL LOWRY, Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE
AN
ORDINANCE
REPORTING

CREATING

THE

GOOD

FAITH

EFFORT

TRANSPARENCY

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-281 - The Good
Faith Effort Transparency Report - Section 34-283 - Contract Compliance Director Waiver Transparency
Reporting is hereby enacted as follows:
Sec. 34-281 - The Good Faith Effort Transparency Report.

Any Person who seeks a partial or full waiver request shall submit a Good Faith Effort Transparency
Report upon its partial or full waiver request. The Good Faith Effort Transparency Report shall include:
1.

A detailed list of any and all PCEs whom the Contractor, Person, or Business engaged, contacted,
and/or reviewed, in the County’s Marketplace, from the County’s list of PCEs and/or other State
and local government agencies which identify qualified PCEs for solicitation of bids, for the

Page 8 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

purposes of securing a bid with the County;
2.

3.

A detailed explanation of the Contractor, Person, or Business’ proposed divided procurement
requirements. This explanation will include, but not limited to;
a.

How the Contractor, Person, or Business proposed to divide the procurement
requirements into small tasks and/or quantities into economically feasible units to promote
PCE participation; and

b.

Whether the proposed procurement requirement divisions are consistent with availability
of PCEs;

A detailed explanation of the Contractor, Person, or Business’ negotiations in good faith with
PCEs. If the Contractor, Person, or Business fails to contact a PCE, this explanation will include,
but is not limited to;
a.

The timeliness when the Contractor, Person, or Business knew of the bid, when the
Contractor, Person, or Party formulated its bid and utilization plan, and the bid request due
date;

b.

A detailed explanation of timely attempts to contact with PCEs providing type of supplies,
equipment, goods, and/or services required for the Procurement. This explanation will
include, but is not limited to;
i. Dates of contact attempts;
ii. With whom, if anyone, the Contractor, Person, or Business communicated and/or
corresponded (including written, virtual, digital, electronic, and other feasible
methods of communication);
iii.
The number of unsuccessful attempts to communicate or correspond with
PCEs;

4.

A detailed explanation of the Contractor, Person, or Business’ negotiations in good faith with
PCEs. If the Contractor, Person, or Business successfully contacts a PCE, this explanation will
include, but is not limited to;
a.

A detailed explanation regarding why the PCE was incapable of inclusion for the
Contractor, Person, or Business’ bid;

b.

A description of the information provided regarding the plans and specifications for the
work selected for subcontracting and why agreements were unreachable;
i. The Contractor, Person, or Business shall not determine and reject PCEs as
unqualified without sound reasons. The Contractor, Person shall not consider
some additional costs involved in finding and using PCEs as the sole reason for

Page 9 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

the Contractor, Person, or Business’ failure to meet the Goals, as long as such
costs are reasonable, as determined by the CCD and Board.
c.

A detailed explanation regarding a Contractor, Person, or Business’ efforts to assist
interested PCEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies, materials, or related
assistance or services, where appropriate;

d.

A detailed explanation of any and all adjusted insurance requirements imposed by the
Contractor, Person, or Business seeking PCEs, including but not limited to;
i. Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business assisted PCEs in obtaining any
required insurance, where economically feasible, to encourage participation by
PCEs

5.

The Contractor, Person, or Business applying for a waiver shall sign the Good Faith Effort
Transparency Report. If the Contractor, Person, or Business is a business organization, authorized
to conduct business in Illinois, the signee shall be any, employee, agent, and/ or officer authorized
to sign on behalf of the Contractor, Person, or Business.

6.

The Good Faith Effort Transparency Report shall be due at the time the bid or proposal is due. In
the event a bid or proposal leads to a Contract with the County, the Good Faith Effort
Transparency Report, as approved by the CCD, shall be incorporated into the Contract. Failure to
include a Good Faith Effort Transparency Report upon submission of a request for a partial or full
waiver shall result in no consideration for waiver and render the bid or proposal not Responsive.

7.

Once the CCD approves a Good Faith Effort Transparency Report, the Contractor, Person, or
Business may not change the Good Faith Effort Transparency Report without the prior written
approval of the CCD, in consultation with the CPO and the Using Agency. Upon such written
approval by the CCD, the revised Good Faith Effort Transparency Report shall be incorporated
into the Contract as an amendment by the CPO and made available to the Board for review no
later than one week prior to the Bid appearing on the Board agenda for approval. The CCD shall
promulgate policies and procedures with respect to changes to a Good Faith Effort Transparency
Report.

Sec. 34-282 - Additional Good Faith Effort Factors for Consideration.

(a) The Contract Compliance Director may also consider additional factors, if known, including, but not
limited to:
1.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business followed up with PCEs who it originally identified
but were unable to include in the bid, based upon prior communication, but prior to submitting its
bid;

2.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business established delivery schedules which will encourage

Page 10 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

participation by PCEs, where the requirements of the Procurement permit;
3.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business used the services and assistance of the CCD's staff,
the Small Business Administration, the Office of Minority Business Enterprises of the U.S.
Department of Commerce;

4.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business timely notified appropriate community and minority
and women's business organizations identified as assist agencies, of the opportunity for
participation in the Procurement;

5.

Whether the Contractor, Person, or Business maintains or commits to establish and maintain a
mentor-protégé agreement with one or more PCEs that is enforceable and that, in the judgment of
the CCD, has performance standards and outcomes that are clearly established and effective in
terms of assisting the PCE in acquiring additional skills, experience, and relationships helpful to the
long-term success of the PCE, consistent with the provisions of Section 34-271(d).

(b) In determining whether a Bidder or Respondent Contractor, Person, or Business has made Good Faith
Efforts, the levels of participation by PCEs set forth in Utilization Plans submitted by other
Contractors, Persons, or Businesses for the same Procurement may be considered. For example, if
the apparent successful Bidder or Respondent Contractor, Person, or Business fails to meet the
Contract Specific Goals, but meets or exceeds the average PCE participation obtained by other
Bidders or Respondents Contractors, Persons, or Businesses, this may be evidence that the apparent
successful Bidder or Respondent Contractors, Persons, or Businesses made Good Faith Efforts.
(c) Where the County requires professional services, the County must be able to call upon those
professionals whose particular training and experience are most beneficial to the County.
(1) A Utilization Plan shall be required, and if a waiver or partial waiver is requested, "good faith"
efforts shall be demonstrated by the submission of the Good Faith Effort Transparency Report,
by the Contractor, Person, or Business, and CCD’s consideration of additional factors pursuant
to as set forth in Sections 34-271 34-271, 34-281, and 34-282; provided, however, that such
Persons or Businesses shall not be required to attempt to subcontract with PCEs if
subcontractors would not typically be utilized for the type of Procurement. In such cases, the
Contractor, Person, or Business shall document the reasons for not subcontracting in a waiver
request also complete a Good Faith Effort Transparency Report detailing the reasons for not
subcontracting the professional services for the specific bid.
(2)

(3)

The Contractor, Person, or Business will endeavor to maximize use of PCEs for supplies,
equipment, goods, or services for such Contractor, Person, or Business’ business operations not
specifically for the Procurement.
If such Contractor, Person, or Business is required to have or has an affirmative action plan
and goals, such plan and goals shall be submitted with their Utilization Plan. The CCD shall
compare such plan and goals with the Person's Contractor, Person, or Business’ actual
affirmative action achievements and such achievements may be considered by the County in

Page 11 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

future Procurements.
(d)

Mentor/protégé agreements. Where a Contractor, Person, or Business enters into or maintains a
mentor/protege agreement with a PCE to improve or develop certain aspects of the business of the
PCE, the CCD shall evaluate the effect of such agreement as a factor in determining good faith
efforts. The mentor/protégé agreement may provide for the Contractor, Person, or Business to assist
the PCE in such areas as technical aspects of the PCE's business, improving financial management,
or providing on-the-job training. To constitute good faith efforts, the mentor/protégé agreement shall
satisfy the following requirements.
(1) The PCE performs a Commercially Useful Function;
(2) The agreement shall be included in the Utilization Plan; and
(3)

The agreement clearly defines the respective responsibilities of the Contractor, Person, or
Business and the PCE and includes specific, measurable goals to be attained by both parties
through the performance of the agreement. In order to be a factor in establishing best efforts, the
mentor/protégé agreement must be for a reasonable period of time.

(e) The CCD may grant a total or partial waiver based upon the following criteria:
(1) There are not sufficient PCEs capable of providing the supplies, equipment, goods, or services
required for the Procurement;
(2) The Procurement cannot reasonably be divided;
(3) The price required by potential PCEs is more than ten percent above competitive levels; and
(4) Any other factor relating to good faith efforts as set forth in the Person’ s Contractor, Person, or
Business’ Utilization Plan and Good Faith Effort Transparency Report.
(f) Should the CCD grant any partial or full waiver, the CCD shall report, in writing, its justification for
granting the waiver, pursuant to Section 34-283.
Sec. 34-283. - Contract Compliance Director Waiver Transparency Reporting.

The CCD shall report to the Board, in writing, on a monthly basis, and at least one week prior to the
Board meeting where such Contracts seek Board approval with a waiver request, a report which shall
include:
(1) The percentage of the total dollar amount of Procurements for such Contracts seeking approval
by the Board, whereby the Person or Party, seeking Contract approval requested a partial or full
waiver and submitted a Good Faith Effort Transparency Report.

Page 12 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

(2) The number of PCEs available for participation in Procurements, based on Contracts seeking
approval by the Board and requesting a waiver, including:
a.

PCE designation, and

b.

Industry type and/or NAICS codes of the PCEs, where appropriate.

(3) A summary regarding whether
Transparency Report and why.

the

CCD

approved

or

rejected

the

Good

Faith

Effort

(4) The CCD report shall include Good Faith Transparency Reports for such Contracts seeking
approval, attached to the CCD report as an exhibit.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-265 - Program
Administration is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-265. - Program Administration.

(a) The Office of Contract Compliance, under the direction of the CCD, who shall report to the
President, shall administer the Program. The duties of the CCD shall include:
(1) Formulating, proposing and implementing rules and regulations for the development,
implementation and monitoring of the Program, certification process, recertification process,
and no-change affidavits, including time limitations for the submission of documents and
information regarding certification applications and contract participation. The CCD is
authorized to collect certification and recertification processing fees in the amount of $250.00
per Application; the collection of said processing fees shall be transacted by the CCD
through the Bureau of Finance.
(2) Providing information and assistance to PCEs, and Small Businesses relating to the Program,
and serve as a liaison to community, contractor, professional and supplier groups, and
associations and organizations.
(3) Establishing uniform procedures and criteria for certifying, recertifying and decertifying
Persons as PCEs, accepting certifications by other agencies, and maintaining a directory of
Certified PCEs. Such procedures and criteria shall include non-certification or decertification
for the willful submission of false or inaccurate material information, the failure to submit
complete and accurate material information to the CCD regarding certification, or a
Procurement on a timely basis, and shall relate individually and jointly to both PCEs and PCE
owners.
(4) Establishing Contract Specific Goals, in collaboration with the User Agency, based upon the
availability of PCEs to provide the supplies, materials and equipment or services required by

Page 13 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

the Contract.
(5) Monitoring Contracts to evaluate compliance with Contract Specific Goals and commitments.
(6) Cooperating with and providing assistance to Using Agencies to facilitate participation by
PCEs in Procurements.
(7) Reviewing, approving or rejecting Utilization Plans and Good Faith Effort Transparency
Reports for achievement of Contract Specific Goals, and evaluating the extent to which goals
were achieved.
(8) Monitoring contracts to ensure compliance with Section 34-388, Prompt Payment of PCEs.
(9) Receiving, reviewing, and acting upon complaints and suggestions concerning the Program.
(10)

Evaluating the effectiveness and utility of the Program.

(11)

Monitoring the Program and the County's progress towards the Program Goals. The CCD
shall report on a quarterly and annual basis to the President on the Program.

(12)

Reporting to the CCC, at its request, information regarding the administration of the
Program and its progress toward achieving the Program Goals.

(b) Using Agencies shall cooperate with the CCD in the administration of the Program, specifically
including assisting the CCD with setting Contract Specific Goals and assisting in the identification of
available PCEs.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-269 - Utilization
Plan; Commercially Useful Function is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-269. - Utilization Plan; Commercially Useful Function.

(a) Utilization Plan. The CPO shall include in Contract Documents for Contracts covered by this
Division a requirement that a Utilization Plan be submitted which either: (i) commits to PCE
participation equal to or greater than the applicable Contract Specific Goal or Goals, or (ii)
requests a waiver of all or a portion of a Contract Specific Goal by submitting a Good Faith Effort
Transparency Report pursuant to Section 34-281.
(1) The Utilization Plan shall be in such form and contain such information as is required by the CCD,
and may include such components as direct PCE participation, indirect PCE participation, and a
mentoring relationship with one or more PCEs.
(2) The Utilization Plan shall be due at the time the bid or proposal is due. In the event a bid or

Page 14 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

proposal leads to a Contract with the County, the Utilization Plan as approved by the CCD shall
be incorporated as a material commitment on the part of the Contractor to each relevant PCE
and the contractor and the County. Failure to include a Utilization Plan shall render the bid or
proposal not Responsive.
(3) The CCD shall review and either approve or reject the Utilization Plan. For purposes of evaluating
a Utilization Plan, only PCEs which perform a Commercially Useful Function relative to the
supplies, equipment, goods, services, or types of work for which the PCE has been certified shall
be considered.
(4) Once a Utilization Plan has been approved, the Contractor may not change the Utilization Plan,
including substituting PCEs named in the Utilization Plan, without the prior written approval of
the CCD, in consultation with the CPO and the Using Agency. Upon such written approval by
the CCD, the revised Utilization Plan shall be incorporated into the Contract as an amendment
by the CPO. The CCD shall promulgate policies and procedures with respect to change to a
Utilization Plan.
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-271 - Request
for a Full or Partial Waiver; Good Faith Efforts is hereby amended as follows:

Sec. 34-271. - Request for a Total Full or Partial Waiver; Good Faith Efforts.
(a)

Parties submitting bids or proposals for Procurements may in all instances request a partial or full
waiver of one or more established contract-specific Goal for PCE participation. A Contractor,
Person, or Business requesting a partial or full waiver shall submit, in writing, a report detailing its
efforts to comply with County’s “good faith efforts” as defined in Section 34-281, hereinafter
referred to as the “Good Faith Effort Transparency Report”. In reviewing a Contractor, Person,
or Business’ written request for a partial or total full waiver of a Contract Specific Goal, the CCD
shall determine whether a Contractor, Person, or Business has made good faith efforts to meet
the applicable Goals and to what extent the waiver request should be granted. In determining
whether a Contractor, Person, or Business has made Good faith efforts, the CCD will consider
the Good Faith Effort Transparency Report, pursuant to Section 34-281 and additional factors,
pursuant to Section 34-282. Upon evaluation of the Contractor, Person, or Business’ Good Faith
Effort Transparency Report and additional factors, the CCD will draft and submit a report,
pursuant to Section 34-283. whether the Person has

(1) Reviewed lists of PCEs maintained by the County and other State and local governments and
agencies to identify qualified PCEs for solicitation for Bids;
(2)

Divided Procurement requirements into small tasks or quantities. This shall include, where
appropriate, breaking out Contract work items into economically feasible units, consistent with the
availability of PCEs, to facilitate PCE participation, even when the Contractor would otherwise
prefer to perform these work items with its own forces;

Page 15 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

(3) Adjusted any insurance requirements imposed by the Person seeking PCEs, or otherwise assist
PCEs in obtaining any required insurance, where economically feasible, to encourage
participation by PCEs;
(4)

Made timely attempts to contact PCEs providing the type of supplies, equipment, goods or
services required for the Procurement; and provide them with a convenient and timely
opportunity to obtain and review all information concerning the Procurement necessary to enable
such PCE to respond;

(5)

Followed up initial contacts of PCEs to determine if they are interested participating in the
Procurement;

(6) Negotiated in good faith and on a timely basis with PCEs to enable them to participate in the
Procurement. Evidence of such negotiation includes the names, addresses, and telephone
numbers of PCEs that were contacted; a description of the information provided regarding the
plans and specifications for the work selected for subcontracting; and why agreements could not
be reached. The Contractor may not reject PCEs as being unqualified without sound reasons.
That there may be some additional costs involved in finding and using PCEs is not in itself
sufficient reason for a Contractor's failure to meet the Goals, as long as such costs are
reasonable;
(7) Made efforts to assist interested PCEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies, materials, or
related assistance or services, where appropriate; provided, however, that such efforts shall not
be inconsistent with the requirement that the PCE be responsible for actually obtaining and
paying for such items;
(8)

Established delivery schedules which
requirements of the Procurement permit;

will

encourage

participation

by

PCEs,

where

the

(9)

Used the services and assistance of the CCD's staff, the Small Business Administration, the
Office of Minority Business Enterprises of the U.S. Department of Commerce;

(10)

Timely notified appropriate community and minority and women's business organizations
identified as assist agencies of the opportunity for participation in the Procurement;

(11)

Maintains or commits to establish and maintain a mentor-protégé agreement with one or more
PCEs that is enforceable and that, in the judgment of the CCD, has performance standards and
outcomes that are clearly established and effective in terms of assisting the PCE in acquiring
additional skills, experience, and relationships helpful to the long-term success of the PCE,
consistent with the provisions of Section 34-271(d).

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Chapter 34 - Finance, Article IV Procurement, Division 8 - Minority and Woman-Owned Business Enterprises, Section 34-297 - Contract

Page 16 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Pre-Award Compliance Procedures is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 34-297. - Contract Pre-Award Compliance Procedures.

(a) For all solicitations, the bidder/proposer Contractor, Person, or Business shall submit a Utilization
Plan detailing all subcontractors from which the Contractor, Person, or Business solicited bids or
quotations, and if Project Specific Goals have been established, its achievement of the Goals or
its Good Faith Efforts to do so. The Utilization Plan shall be due at the time the bid/proposal is
due. Any Contractor, Person, or Business requesting a partial or full waiver shall submit a Good
Faith Effort Transparency Report with its Utilization Plan when the Utilization Plan is due. In the
event a bid or proposal leads to a Contract with the County, the Utilization Plan as approved, and
any Good Faith Effort Transparency Report as approved and applicable, by the CCD shall be
incorporated as a material commitment on the part of the Contractor, Person, or Business to each
relevant PCE, and the contractor Contractor, Person, or Business, and the County. Failure to
include a Utilization Plan, and Good Faith Effort Transparency Report, where applicable, shall
render the bid or proposal not Responsive.
(b) Any agreement between a contractor Contractor, Person, or Business and a PCE in which the
Contractor requires that the PCE not provide subcontracting quotations to other Contractors is
prohibited.
(c) Where the contractor Contractor, Person, or Business cannot achieve the Project Specific
Goal(s), the CCD will determine whether the Contractor, Person, or Business has made Good
Faith Efforts to meet the Goal(s), based upon the submission of a Good Faith Effort
Transparency Report by the bidding Contractor, Person, or Business and consideration of
additional factors by the CCD, pursuant to Sections 34-281 and 34-282. Parties A Contractor,
Person, or Business submitting bids or proposals for Procurements may in all instances request a
partial or full waiver of one or more established Project Specific Goal for PCE participation. In
making this determination, the Director will consider, at a minimum, whether the Contractor has:
the Good Faith Effort Transparency Report, pursuant to Section 34-281 and additional factors,
pursuant to Section 34-282.
(1) Solicited through all reasonable and available means (e.g., attendance at pre-bid meetings,
advertising and written notices) the interest of all PCEs certified in the scopes of work of the
contract. The Contractor shall provide interested PCEs with timely, adequate information about
the plans, specifications, and requirements of the contract to allow PCEs to respond to the
solicitation. The Contractor must follow up initial solicitations with interested PCEs.
(2)

Selected portions of the work to be performed by PCEs in order to increase the likelihood that
the Project Specific Goals will be achieved. This includes, where appropriate, breaking out
contract work items into economically feasible units to facilitate PCE participation, even when
the Contractor would otherwise prefer to perform these work items with its own forces. It is the
Contractor's responsibility to make a portion of the work available to PCEs and to select those
portions of the work or material needs consistent with the availability of PCEs to facilitate their

Page 17 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

participation.
(3)

Negotiated in good faith with interested PCEs. Evidence of such negotiation includes the names,
addresses, and telephone numbers of PCEs that were contacted; a description of the information
provided regarding the plans and specifications for the work selected for subcontracting; and
why agreements could not be reached with PCEs. The Contractor may not reject PCEs as
being unqualified without sound reasons based on a thorough investigation of their capabilities.
That there may be some additional costs involved in finding and using PCEs is not in itself
sufficient reason for a Contractor's failure to meet the Project Specific Goals, as long as such
costs are reasonable. The ability or desire of a Contractor to perform the work of a contract
with its own organization does not relieve it of the responsibility to make Good Faith Efforts on
all scopes of work that could be subcontracted.

(4)

Made efforts to assist interested PCEs in obtaining bonding, lines of credit, or insurance as
required by the County or the prime Contractor, where appropriate.

(5)

Made efforts to assist interested PCEs in obtaining necessary equipment, supplies, materials, or
related assistance or services, where appropriate.

(6)

Used the services of the Office of Contract Compliance, available minority/women community
organizations,
minority/women
contractors'
groups,
government-sponsored
minority/women
business assistance offices and other appropriate organizations to provide assistance in the
recruitment and placement of PCEs.

(7)

Maintains or commits to establish and maintain a mentor-protégé agreement with one or more
PCEs that is enforceable and that, in the judgement of the CCD, has performance standards and
outcomes that are clearly established and effective in terms of assisting the PCE in acquiring
additional skills, experience, and relationships helpful to the long-term success of the PCE
consistent with the provisions of Section 34-271(d).

(d)

In determining whether a Contractor, Person, or Business has made Good Faith Efforts, the
performance of other Contractors, Persons, or Businesses in meeting the Project Specific Goals may
be considered. For example, when the apparent successful Contractor, Person, or Business fails to
meet the Project Specific Goals but others meet it, it may be reasonably questioned whether, with
additional reasonable efforts, the apparent successful Contractor, Person, or Business could have met
the Project Specific Goals. Similarly, if the apparent successful Contractor, Person, or Business fails
to meet the Project Specific Goals, but meets or exceeds the average PCE participation obtained by
other Contractors, Persons, or Businesses, this may be evidence that the apparent successful
Contractor, Person, or Business made Good Faith Efforts.

(e)

A signed letter of intent from each listed PCE, describing the work, materials, equipment or services
to be performed or provided by the PCE and the agreed upon dollar value shall be due at the time of
bid proposal or within three days after such submission.

Page 18 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

(f)

The CCD shall timely review the Utilization Plan before award, including the scope of work and the
letters of intent from PCEs. The CCD may request clarification in writing of items listed in the
Utilization Plan, provided such clarification shall not include the opportunity to augment listed
participation or Good Faith Efforts augment or modify any Good Faith Effort Transparency Report.

(g)

If the CCD determines that the Utilization Plan demonstrates that the Project Specific Goals have
been achieved or accepts the Good Faith Efforts Transparency Report submitted, made, with the
concurrence of the User Agency, the CCD and User Agency shall recommend award to Purchasing
Agent. The CCD must issue a report to the Board pursuant to Section 34-283 upon acceptance of
the Contractor’s Good Faith Effort Transparency Report no later than one week prior to the Board
meeting where the Contract seeks approval by the Board.

(h) If the CCD finds that a rejects the Contractor’s Contractor, Person, or Business’ did not make
sufficient Good Faith Efforts Transparency Report, the CCD shall communicate this finding to the
Purchasing Department and recommend that the bid/proposal be rejected. A Contractor may protest this
determination pursuant to the County's bid protest procedures.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect June 1, 2019.
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR

19-2374
Presented by: WILLIAM CARROLL, Office of the County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Report Title: FY’2019 Audit Plan
Report Period: Fiscal Year 2019
Summary:

In accordance with the County Auditor Ordinance 11-O-93 Sec. 2-311.9, at the beginning of

each fiscal year, the Auditor shall submit an audit schedule to the County Board for referral to the audit
committee for review and comment.

Page 19 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-2375
Presented by: WILLIAM CARROLL, Office of the County Auditor
REPORT
Department: Office of the County Auditor
Report Title: Inmate Commissary Services
Report Period: January 2019
Summary:

The purpose of this audit was to assess the DOC’s compliance with the amended

requirements of the Illinois Jail Standards, Section 701.250 - Commissary.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

19-2217
Presented by: AMMAR RIZKI, Chief Financial Officer, Bureau of Finance
REPORT
Department: Office of The Chief Financial Officer
Report Title:

Cook County Taxpayer’s Interest Assurance Ordinance: Annual Compliance Request for

Information Regarding Depository Accounts Held in Fiscal Year 2018
Report Period: 12/1/2017-11/30/2018
Summary:

This report is to comply with the requirements of the Taxpayer’s Interest Assurance

Ordinance, under which the CFO compiles information from various user departments relative to accounts
with financial institutions and forward the same to the Board.

Page 20 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF BUDGET AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES

19-2257
Presented by: TANYA S. ANTHONY, Budget Director
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Budget & Management Services
Vendor: JBI LTD. d/b/a Justice Benefits, Inc., Coppell, Texas
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): For assistance with the submission of reimbursement requests for State Criminal
Alien Assistant Program (SCAAP) to the federal government
Contract Value: $300,000.00
Contract period: 4/1/2019 - 10/25/2020
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2019 $126,315.79 FY 2014 $173,684.17
Accounts: 11000.1490.10155.520840.00000.00000
Contract Number(s): 1925-17713
Concurrences:

The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.
The Chief Procurement Officer concurs
Summary: This contract will allow the Budget and Management Services Department to continue to
receive assistance with the identification and recovery of County funds for costs incurred to detain
criminal aliens under SCAAP. Justice Benefits Inc. provides assistance in gathering information
pertaining to the undocumented individuals and associated costs to submit reimbursement claims.

This is a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 34-140 of the Cook County
Procurement Code.
Justice Benefits, Inc. was previously awarded a contract by the County of
Boulder, Colorado, through a publicly advertised Request for Proposals.

Page 21 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

BUREAU OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COMPTROLLER

19-1966
Presented by: LAWRENCE WILSON, County Comptroller
REPORT
Department: Comptroller’s Office
Report Title: Bills and Claims Report
Report Period: 2/1/2019-2/28/2019
Summary: Summary: This report to be received and filed is to comply with the Amended Procurement

Code Chapter 34-125 (k).
The Comptroller shall provide to the Board of Commissioners a report of all payments made pursuant to
contracts for supplies, materials and equipment and for professional and managerial services for Cook
County, including the separately elected Officials, which involve an expenditure of $150,000.00 or more,
within two (2) weeks of being made. Such reports shall include:
1. The name of the Vendor;
2. A brief description of the product or service provided;
3. The name of the Using Department and budgetary account from which the funds are being drawn; and
4. The contract number under which the payment is being made.
BUREAU OF FINANCE
DEPARTMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT

19-2123
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
TO ALIGN WORKERS’ COMPENSATION PAYMENT PROCESS WITH STATE STATUTE
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners requires the Department of Risk Management to administer
workers compensation benefits for Cook County employees pursuant to the Illinois Workers’
Compensation Act, 820 ILCS 305; and
WHEREAS, the Department of Risk Management works with County employers and the Office of the

Page 22 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

States Attorney to ensure that injured employees receive proper workers’ compensation benefits while
also preserving the Employer’s interests; and
WHEREAS, the Finance Subcommittee on Workers’ Compensation authorizes workers’ compensation
settlements and awards as presented by the State’s Attorney’s Office; and
WHEREAS, Resolution 13-R-02 authorizes the Department of Risk Management to resolve Workers’
Compensation cases under $25,000.00; and
WHEREAS, the workers’ compensation benefits are referred to as workers’ compensation claim
payments and include indemnity payments, payments to case management and service providers, and
payments to medical providers for injuries or illnesses sustained in the course and scope of employment
with Cook County; and
WHEREAS, Illinois Public Act 100-1117 and the Workers’ Compensation Act requires a medical
provider to bill an employer or its designee directly and further requires employers and insurers to pay
interest to providers at the rate of 1% per month for services rendered on and after the effective date of
this amendatory Act if the bill is not paid promptly; and
WHEREAS, workers’ compensation medical providers must receive payments within 30 days or face
penalties in accordance with Illinois Public Act 100-1117; and
BE IT RESOLVED, by the Cook County Board of Commissioner of Cook County that the Department
of Risk Management be granted the authority to resolve and execute all workers’ compensation claim
payments. A report of such approved workers’ compensation claim payments shall be made available to
the Finance Committee of the County Board on a monthly basis by the Director of Risk Management.
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

19-2379
Presented by:
Public Health

TERRY MASON, MD, FACS, Chief Operating Officer, Cook County Department of

REPORT
Department: Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH)
Report Title: CCDPH Quarterly Report
Report Period: First Quarter, 2019
Summary:

The Cook County Department of Public Health hereby presents its Quarterly Report to the

Page 23 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Cook County Board of Commissioners in their capacity as the Board of Health of Cook County.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

19-2204
Presented by: MARTHA MARTINEZ, Chief Administrative Officer, Bureau of Administration
REPORT
Department: Veterans Assistance Commission
Report Title: Fiscal Year 2019 - VAC 1st Quarter Report
Report Period: 12/1/2018 - 2/28/2019
Summary: Per Board Resolutions this quarterly report provides daily activity at the VAC from 12/1/2018
- 2/28/2019
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF THE MEDICAL EXAMINER

19-0929
Presented by: PONNI ARUNKUMAR, M.D. Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office
Vendor: Dr. Sanford Block, Highland Park, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Forensic Odontology and Disaster Response Services
Original Contract Period: 5/15/2015 - 5/14/2018, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 5/15/2019 - 5/14/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $60,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/13/2015, $45,000.00

Page 24 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s):
- 5/14/2019

5/23/2018, $15,000.00, 5/15/2018

This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY2019 $15,000.00
Accounts: 11100.1259.17140.521025
Contract Number(s): 1585-14283
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This final of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Medical Examiner’s Office
to receive odontology consulting services in order to identify unknown decedents.
This contract also
covers training in mass disaster along with bi-annual drills so the Medical Examiner’s Office is prepared in
case of a mass disaster.

This is a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County Procurement Code.
19-2000
Presented by: PONNI ARUNKUMAR, M.D. Chief Medical Examiner
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Cook County Medical Examiner
Vendor: Morgan Cremation Service, Northlake, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Transportation and Cremation Services
Contract Value: $174,000.00
Contract period: 4/1/2019 - 3/31/2021, with one (1), two (2) year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2019 $58,000.00, FY 2020 $87,000.00, FY 2021 $29,000.00

Page 25 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Accounts: 11100.1259.17140.520475
Contract Number(s): 1868-17710
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract is for transportation and cremation services for indigent decedents of Cook
County.

This contract is awarded through a publically advertised competitive bidding process in accordance with
the Cook County Procurement Code.
Morgan Cremation Service was the lowest, responsive and
responsible bidder.
BUREAU OF ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS

19-1424
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: C&G Construction Supply Company, Calumet City, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Aggregate Materials
Contract Value: $275,848.00
Contract period: 4/1/2019-3/31/2021, with one (1), two (2), year renewal option
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY2019 $150,000.00, FY2020 $100,000.00, FY2021 $25,848.00
Accounts: 11300.1500.29150.530224
Contract Number(s): 1855-17625

Page 26 of 58

 Board of Commissioners
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

BOARD AGENDA

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

March 21, 2019

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract provides for aggregate materials on an as-needed basis for the Department of
Transportation and Highways’ Maintenance District garages.

This vendor was selected pursuant to a publically advertised invitation for bids in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. C&G Construction Supply Company was the lowest, responsive and
responsible bidder.
19-1635
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
REPORT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Report Title: Bureau of Construction Progress Report
Action: Receive and File
Report Period: 2/1/2019 - 2/28/2019
Summary:

The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully submits the Bureau of

Construction Report for the month of February of 2019
19-1653
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s):
Department of Transportation and Highways,
Department of Facilities Management and the Cook County Clerk’s Office

Cook

County

Vendor: HERC Rentals, Incorporated, Bonita Springs Florida
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to Renew and Increase contract

Page 27 of 58

Sheriff’s

Office,

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Good(s) or Service(s): Equipment Rental Services
Original Contract Period: 4/15/2016 - 4/14/2017, with three (3), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/15/2019 - 4/14/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $3,036,420.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/13/2016, $624,200.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):
5/16/2018, $687,220.00, 4/15/2018 - 4/14/2019

5/10/2017,

$1,725,000.00,

4/15/2017-04/14/2018;

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $709,165.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:
The Department of Transportation and Highways: FY 2019 $350,000.00, FY 2020 $150,000.00
The Cook County Sheriff’s Office: FY2019 $67,000.00, FY2020 $33,000.00
The Department of Facilities Management: FY 2019 $75,000.00, FY2020 $25,000.00
The Cook County Clerk’s Office: FY 2019 $3,055.00, FY 2020 $6,110.00
Accounts:
The Department of Transportation and Highways, 11856.1500.15675.550100
The Cook County Sheriff’s Office, 11100.1499.10155.540255
The Department of Facilities Management, 11000.1200.12355.550102
The Cook County Clerk’s Office, 11306.1110.35165.550012
Contract Number(s): 1684-15307
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
waiver.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and final of three (3), one (1) year renewal options will enable various Cook
County Agencies to continue to rent various equipment to support a shortage of industrial equipment and
aging fleet.

This Contract was awarded as a Comparable Government Procurement pursuant to Section 31-140 of the
Cook County Procurement Code.
Herc Rentals, Inc. was previously awarded a contract through a

Page 28 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Request for Proposals (RFP) process through U.S. Communities, a national government purchasing
cooperative sponsored by the National Association of Counties (NaCo) and the National Institute of
Government Purchasing (NIGP), and in cooperation with North Carolina State University.
19-1689
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED RESOLUTION, MAINTENANCE (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Request: Approval of the Proposed Resolution for Maintenance
Type of Project: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Maintenance District(s): 1,2,4 and 5
County Board District(s): 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 and 13-17
Fiscal Impact: $9,000,000.00
Account(s): Motor Fuel Tax: 11300.1500.29150.540370
Summary:

The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the

Proposed Maintenance Resolution. This resolution will allow for Maintenance and Operation Services of
traffic signal installations throughout the County.
19-1822
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
HIGHWAYS)

INTERGOVERNMENTAL

AGREEMENT

Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): State of Illinois
Request: Approval of the Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: Preliminary Engineering Services - Invest in Cook 2017

Page 29 of 58

(TRANSPORTATION

AND

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Location: City of Chicago, along Butler Drive from Doty Avenue to Stony Island Avenue
Section: 17-IICFR-03-PV
Centerline Mileage: N/A
County Board District: 4
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time Agreement
Fiscal Impact: $600,000.00 ($300,000.00 to be reimbursed from the State of Illinois)
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax: 11300.1500.29150.560019
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between The Department of Transportation and Highways and
the State of Illinois. The Department will be the lead agency for Preliminary Engineering Services for

improvements along Butler Drive from Doty Avenue to Stony Island Avenue. The State of Illinois will
reimburse the County $300,000.00 for Preliminary Engineering costs.
19-1892
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): the Department of Transportation and Highways, the Cook County Sheriff’s office and
the Cook County Health and Hospital System
Vendor: Black Dog Petroleum, LLC, Lyons, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Diesel and Unleaded Fuel
Original Contract Period: 5/1/2017 - 4/30/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 5/1/2019 - 4/30/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,224,721.53

Page 30 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 4/12/2017, $1,224,721.53
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $340,100.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:
Department of Transportation and Highways: FY2019 $66,666.00, FY2020 $33,334.00
The Cook County Sheriff’s Office: FY 2019 $93,330.00, FY 2020 $66,670.00
CCHS Stroger Hospital: FY 2019 $24,000.00 FY 2020 $16,000.00
CCHS Oak Forest Hospital: FY 2019 $20,100.00 FY 2020 $0.00
CCHS Provident Hospital: FY 2019 $14,000.00 FY 2020 $6,000.00
Accounts:
Department of Transportation and Highways: 11856.1500.15675.540148
Cook County Sheriff’s Office: 11100.1499.10155.540255
CCHS Stroger Hospital: 41225.4897.17775.540250
CCHS Oak Forest Hospital: 41230.4898.17775.540250
CCHS Provident Hospital: 41210.4891.17775.520675
Contract Number(s): 1684-15558
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and first of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Department of
Transportation and Highways, the Cook County Sheriff’s Office and the Cook County Health and
Hospital Systems to continue to purchase motor fuel for County-owned vehicles throughout Cook County.

This contract was awarded through a publically advertised Invitation for Bids (IFB) in accordance with
the Cook County Procurement Code. Black Dog Chicago Corporation d/b/a Black Dog Corporation, who
was the lowest, responsive and responsible vendor, has changed its name to Black Dog Petroleum, LLC.
This amendment will also replace reference to Black Dog Chicago Corporation d/b/a Black Dog
Corporation in contract documents with Black Dog Petroleum, LLC.

Page 31 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-1897
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED CONTRACT
Department(s): Transportation and Highways
Vendor: Western Remac, Inc., Woodridge, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Furnish, Install and Maintain Sign Panel Assemblies
Contract Value: $1,074,440.00
Contract period: 4/1/2019 - 3/31/2021 with three (3), one (1), year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact: FY 2019 $400,000; FY 2020 $525,000; FY 2021 $149,440
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax Account: 11300.1500.29150.540370
Contract Number(s): 1885-17684
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This contract provides for the fabrication, installation, removal, relocation, and maintenance of
existing as well as new sign panel assemblies and their appurtenances located along various roads on the
Cook County Highway System.

This vendor was selected pursuant to a publically advertised invitation for bids in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. Western Remac, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible
bidder.

Page 32 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-1908
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED AGREEMENT (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Globetrotters Engineering Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Approval of the Proposed Agreement
Goods or Services: Preliminary Engineering Services - Invest in Cook 2017
Location: Illinois International Port District in the City of Chicago
Section Number: 17-IICFR-03-PV
County Board District: 4
Centerline Mileage: 1.16 miles
Agreement Period: One-time Agreement
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Fiscal Impact: $535,510.86 ($267,755.43 (50%) to be reimbursed from the State of Illinois)
Accounts: 11900.1500.53567.560019
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Agreement between Cook County and Globetrotters Engineering Corporation, Chicago, Illinois.
This project will reconstruct Butler Drive from its western terminus at Doty Avenue to its eastern
terminus at Stony Island Avenue, as well as reconstruct Stony Island Avenue from its northern terminus at
Butler Drive south to the intersection at 130th Street. These two roadways provide sole access to the
Illinois International Port District’s Facilities located on the south side of Lake Calumet. Cook County will
be the lead agency and the State of Illinois will reimburse the County for its share of Preliminary
Engineering costs that total $267,755.43.

Page 33 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-1947
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Transportation and Highways
Other Part(ies): Illinois State Toll Highway Authority
Request: Approval of the Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods or Services: Street Lighting Electrical Maintenance Services
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: One-time agreement
Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax: 11300.1500.29150.560019
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between Cook County and The Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority. The County will maintain the street lighting system on 127th Street from I-355 interchange
Ramps A and B to I-355 interchange ramps C and D, and be responsible for the electric energy costs.

19-1968
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Healy Metra Station Renovations
Location: City of Chicago

Page 34 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Section: 19-HEALY-00-RR
County Board District(s): 8
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $50,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax: 11300.1500.29150.560019
Summary:

The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the

Proposed Improvement Resolution for the Healy Metra Station located at 4014 W. Fullerton Avenue, in
Chicago. Renovations will include Design and Construction Services at the station.
19-1983
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED
SUPPLEMENTAL
AND HIGHWAYS)

IMPROVEMENT

RESOLUTION

(TRANSPORTATION

Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of the Supplemental Improvement Resolution
Project: Purchase of Bulk Salt Deicing Materials - Fiscal Year 2019 Supplemental Resolution
Location: Countywide
Section: 19-8SALT-00-GM
County Board District: 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 and 13-17
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $500,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax: 11300.1500.29150.530224

Page 35 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Board Approved Date and Amount: 10/17/2018, $2,100,000.00
Increased Amount: $500,000.00
Total Adjusted Amount: $2,600,000.00
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Supplemental Improvement Resolution. The Purchase of bulk rock salt and deicing materials is
utilized for ice and snow control on various County maintained highways for Fiscal Year 2019.

19-2027
Presented by: JOHN YONAN, P.E., Superintendent, Department of Transportation and Highways
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT RESOLUTION (TRANSPORTATION AND HIGHWAYS)
Department: Transportation and Highways
Project Type: Motor Fuel Tax Project
Request: Approval of appropriation of Motor Fuel Tax Funds
Project: Central Avenue Bridge - Emergency Work
Location: Village of Stickney, Village of Forest View, 47th Street to 39th Street
Section: 19-W3924-00-BR
County Board District(s): 16
Centerline Mileage: N/A
Fiscal Impact: $165,000.00
Accounts: Motor Fuel Tax: 11300.1500.29150.560019
Summary: The Department of Transportation and Highways respectfully requests approval of the
Proposed Improvement Resolution for emergency work on the Central Avenue Bridge from 47th Street to
39th Street in the Villages of Forest View and Stickney in Cook County.

Page 36 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
CAPITAL PLANNING AND POLICY

19-1150
Presented by: EARL MANNING, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED PAYMENT APPROVAL
Department(s): Capital Planning and Policy
Action: Request Approval of Payment
Payee: Anderson Elevator Co., Broadview, Illinois
Good(s) or Service(s): Installation of Wheelchair Lift
Fiscal Impact: $32,750.00
Accounts: Capital Improvement Program
Contract Number(s): N/A
Summary:

Payment for the furnishing and installation of one (1) ADA-compliant wheelchair lift and

automatic opening on the 1st floor landing of the Skokie Courthouse.
19-1423
Presented by: EARL MANNING, Director, Office of Capital Planning and Policy
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Capital Planning and Policy
Vendor: exp US Services, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Professional Architectural and Engineering Services
Original Contract Period: 4/1/2016-3/31/2018

Page 37 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/1/2019-3/31/2021
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $355,749.76
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 3/23/2016
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 3/22/2018, 4/1/2018-3/31/2019
This Increase Requested: $153,587.38
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2019 $100,000.00 FY 2020 $53,587.38
Accounts: Capital Improvement Program
Contract Number(s): 1528-14310
Concurrences:
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary:
This increase and extension will accommodate construction administration services for the
JTDC Elevator and Escalator Modernization project due to phasing requirements above and beyond what
was indicated in the RFQ Scope of Services. The original scope of services included a 6-month
construction duration, as well as a total of 30 site visits. Operational constraints at JTDC have extended
this to an 18-month construction duration with an additional 30 site visits.

This contract was awarded through a Request for Qualification (RFQ) process in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. exp US Services, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation
criteria.

Page 38 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT

19-1693
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Corporate Cleaning Service, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to increase and renew contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Exterior Window Washing Services
Original Contract Period: 3/15/2016 - 3/14/2018, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 3/15/2019 - 3/14/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $153,440.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 3/11/2016, $103,440.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 1/17/2018, $50,000.00, 3/15/2018 - 3/14/2019
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $50,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2019 $37,500.00; FY2020 $12,500.00
Accounts: 1200.540350 Property Maintenance and Operations
Contract Number(s): 1545-15070
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
waiver.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary:

This increase and final of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Department of

Page 39 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Facilities Management to continue to receive exterior window washing services at various Cook County
Facilities.
This contract is awarded through a publicly advertised Invitation for Bids (IFB) in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code.
Corporate Cleaning Service, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and
responsible bidder.
19-1698
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Department of Facilities Management, Cook County Sheriff’s
Office of the Medical Examiner and Department of Transportation and Highways

Office,

Vendor: Valdes, LLC d/b/a Valdes Enterprises, Wheeling, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Paper Towels and Toilet Tissue
Original Contract Period: 4/7/2017 - 4/6/2019, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/7/2019 - 4/6/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,522,125.13
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 3/8/2017, $1,522,125.13
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $391,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact:
Facilities Management 1200-530175 FY2019 $120,000.00; FY2020 $60,000.00
Cook County Sheriff 1239 -530175 FY2019 $120,000.00; FY2020 $58,000.00
Cook County Medical Examiner 1259-530175 FY2019 $8,666.66; FY2020 $4,333.34
Department of Transportation and Highway 1500-530188 FY2019 $15,000.00; FY2020 $5,000.00
Accounts: Institutional Supplies

Page 40 of 58

Cook

County

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Contract Number(s): 1684-15593
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned
participation and full WBE waiver with indirect participation.

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and first of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow various Cook County
Departments to receive toilet paper and paper towels at various Cook County locations.

This contract was awarded through a publically advertised Invitation for Bids (IFB) in accordance with
the Cook County Procurement Code. Valdes, LLC d/b/a Valdes Enterprises was the lowest, responsive
and responsible bidder.
19-2028
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Facilities Management
Vendor: Affiliated Steam Equipment Company, Alsip, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Double Wall Steam Bundles
Original Contract Period: 3/1/2016 - 2/28/2018, with two (2), one (1) year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 3/1/2019 - 2/28/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $93,800.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 3/1/2016, $43,800.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 2/16/2018, $50,000.00, 3/1/2018 2/28/2019
This Increase Requested: $50,000.00

Page 41 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2019 $37,494.00; FY2020 $12,506.00
Accounts: 1200.530188 Institutional Supplies
Contract Number(s): 1545-15105
Concurrences:
The contract-specific goal set on this contract was zero.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and final of two (2), one (1) year renewal options will allow the Department of
Facilities Management to continue to receive double wall steam bundles used to furnish heat at the
Department of Corrections.

This contract was awarded through a publically advertised Invitation for Bids (IFB) in accordance with
the Cook County Procurement Code. Affiliated Steam Equipment Company was the lowest, responsive
and responsible bidder.
19-2096
Presented by: BILQIS JACOBS-EL, Director, Department of Facilities Management
PROPOSED TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Department: Facilities Management
Request: Transfer of Funds
Reason:
facilities.

To allow Facilities Management to rent necessary equipment needed for the up keep of

From Account(s):
1200-530188 - $50,000.00 (institutional supplies)
1200-520390 - $15,000.00 (contract maintenance)
1200-540350 - $15,000.00 (property maintenance)
To Account(s): 1200 - 550100 equipment rental
Total Amount of Transfer: $80,000.00
On what date did it become apparent that the receiving account would require an infusion of
funds in order to meet current obligations? What was the balance in the account on that date,
and what was the balance 30 days prior to that date?

Page 42 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

On March 1st the balance in the equipment rental account was $36,000.00.
was $14,000.00

March 21, 2019

The balance on February 4th

How was the account used for the source of transferred funds identified?
accounts that were also considered (but not used) as the source of the transferred funds.

List any other

These accounts were identified because of the available balance in the account.
Identify any projects, purchases, programs, contracts, or other obligations that will be deferred,
delayed, or canceled as a result of the reduction in available spending authority that will result
in the account that funds are transferred from.

None
If the answer to the above question is “none” then please explain why this account was
originally budgeted in a manner that caused an unobligated surplus to develop at this point in
the fiscal year.

The department of Facilities Management has needed to rent additional equipment due to the extreme
weather.
BUREAU OF ASSET MANAGEMENT
REAL ESTATE

19-2211
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AMENDMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Request to Approve Third Lease Amendment
Landlord: Broadway 5533, LLC
Tenant: County of Cook, for the Use of Commissioner Bridget Gainer
Location: 5533 N. Broadway Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: 4/1/2019-11/30/2020
Space Occupied: 200 Square. Feet

Page 43 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Monthly Rent: $330.00
Fiscal Impact: FY19-FY20 $6,600.00 (Total Term)
Accounts: 11000.1090.20190.550130 - Facility and Office Space Rental
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: By Tenant with sixty-day prior written notice
Utilities Included: Yes
Summary: Requesting approval of a Third Amendment to Lease extending the term at 5533 N.
Broadway Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60640 for the use of Commissioner Bridget Gainer’s 10th District
field office.

19-2212
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Request Approval of New Lease
Landlord: 4251-57 Milwaukee Property LLC
Tenant: County of Cook, for the Use of Commissioner Bridget Degnen
Location: 4253 N. Milwaukee Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: 3/21/2019-11/30/2022
Space Occupied: 1,000 Square Feet
Monthly Rent: $1,050.00 with 3% annual escalations beginning 11/30/2019
Fiscal Impact: FY19-22 $48,513.70 (Total Term)
Accounts: 11000.1092.20440.550130 - Facility and Office Space Rental
Option to Renew: N/A

Page 44 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Termination: Allowable with sixty-day notice
Utilities Included: No
Summary/Notes:
Requesting approval of new Lease at 4253 N. Milwaukee Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
60641 for the use of Commissioner Bridget Degnen’s 12th District Office.

19-2213
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED LEASE AGREEMENT
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Request: Request Approval of New Lease
Landlord: Jan Kralovec
Tenant: County of Cook, for the use of Commissioner Alma Anaya
Location: 4374 South Archer Avenue, Chicago, Illinois
Term/Extension Period: 3/21/2019-11/30/2022
Space Occupied: 591 Square Feet
Monthly Rent: $1,100.00
Fiscal Impact: FY 19-22 $48,400.00 (Total Term)
Accounts: 11000.1087.19245.550130 - Facility and Office Space Rental
Option to Renew: N/A
Termination: Allowable with sixty-day notice
Utilities Included: Tenant will reimburse landlord for one-half of the gas, electric and water.
Summary/Notes: Requesting approval of new Lease at 4374 S Archer Ave., Chicago, Illinois 60608
for the use of Commissioner Alma Anaya’s 7th District Office.

Page 45 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-2216
Presented by: JESSICA CAFFREY, Director, Real Estate Management Division
PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS
Department: Department of Real Estate Management
Summary: The Committee of Asset Management declared that certain County owned property be
deemed surplus property and authorized the conveyance of said property by quit claim deed at the
February 20, 2019 Asset Management Committee Meeting. The subject property consists of an
approximately 0.062-acre triangular parcel of land in Cook County District 14, is located at the northeast
corner of Dundee Road and Skokie Boulevard, west of vacated Henrici Drive, in Northbrook, Illinois. This
small remnant, which is landlocked, has limited value or development potential without use of the
surrounding parcel.

The Cook County Board of Commissioners approved item 19-1171 and concurred with the
recommendation of the Asset Management Committee on February 21, 2019 declaring certain County
owned property as surplus and authorizing the conveyance of said property by quit claim deed.
In accordance with the approval provided by the Board of Commissioners on February 21, 2019,
authorization is requested for the President of the Board or the Director of Real Estate Management to
execute and deliver a quit claim deed conveying the approximate 0.062-acre triangular surplus parcel of
land in Cook County District 14, located at the northeast corner of Dundee Road and Skokie Boulevard,
west of vacated Henrici Drive, in Northbrook, Illinois to 430 Dundee Road, LLC, an Illinois limited liability
company for $50,000 (appraised value).
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING

19-1648
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President) and PETER N. SILVESTRI, Cook County Board
of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A, Zoning, Article
8, General Provisions, Section 8.7 of the Cook County Code shall be amended as follows:

***
8.7.7. ANIMALS. In addition to the regulations below, the keeping of animals is subject to all applicable

Page 46 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

provisions of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, including but not limited to those contained
within Chapter 10, Animals, and Chapter 38, Health and Human Services. For purposes of this
ordinance, an animal shall be considered an adult when it reaches four (4) months of age.
***
C. Horses. No more than one (1) horse may be kept per one (1) acre of land; the keeping of
horses shall be limited to a minimum lot area of three (3) acres; horses shall be kept in an
adequate enclosure suitable for the confinement of such animals; all animal enclosures shall
comply with the setback requirement of the zoning district. This section does not apply to
“miniature horses,” which are subject to regulation as “pets” above.
CD. Fowl. No more than twelve (12) five (5) fowls shall be kept when located on zoning lots of
less than 1 acre; roosters are prohibited; fowls shall be kept in an adequate enclosure
suitable for the confinement of such animals.
DE. Beekeeping. Bee colonies may be kept on residential and commercial zoning lots, provided
they comply with the following regulations:
***
EF. Exemptions. This section shall not apply to farms, veterinary clinics, animal hospitals,
kennels, or animal shelters.
BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Appendix A,
Zoning, Article 13, Administration and Enforcement, Sections 13.6 of the Cook County Code shall be
amended as follows:
***
13.6.7. ACTION BY THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.

***
C. Variances forwarded to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for final decision shall be
approved by a favorable vote of three-quarters of all members of the Cook County Board
of Commissioners in cases where the Zoning Board of Appeals has not recommended
approval of a proposed variance or where there has been a written protest filed against a
proposed variance in accordance with Section 13.13 of this ordinance.
***
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption.

Page 47 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

19-0464
Presented by: VELISHA HADDOX, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Human Resources
Report Title: Human Resources Bi-Weekly Activity Report
Report Period:
Summary:

Pay Period 25: 11/25/2018 - 12/8/2018 and Pay Period 26: 12/9/2018 - 12/22/2018

This report lists all new hires and terminations of employees in executive, administrative or

professional positions, Grades 17 through 24, and employees in such positions who have transferred
positions, received salary adjustments, whose positions have been transferred or reclassified, or employees
who are hired into positions as Seasonal Work, Employees, Extra Employees, Extra Employees for Special
Activities and Employees per Court Order.
BUREAU OF TECHNOLOGY
CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER

19-2229
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: JP Simons & Company, Glendale Heights, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Telecommunications materials
Contract Value: $4,763,659.94
Contract period: 4/1/2019 - 3/31/2022, with two (2) one-year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget Impact:

FY 2019, $1,163,659.94; FY 2020, $1,800,000.00; FY 2021,

Page 48 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

$1,800,000.00
Accounts: Various accounts.
Contract Number(s): 1853-17609
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has
participation.

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

via

direct

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs..
Summary: The Bureau of Technology requests approval of Contract No. 1853-17609 with JP Simons &
Company for telecommunications materials. Materials to be provided through the contract include cable,
wire, conduit, patch panels, wall jacks, and face plates, and will be utilized by all County agencies and
offices.

Competitive bidding procedures were followed in accordance with the Cook County Procurement Code.
JP Simons & Company was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
OFFICE OF THE ASSESSOR

19-2191
Presented by: FRITZ KAEGI, Cook County Assessor
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Cook County Assessor’s Office, Revenue Department, Sheriff’s Office, and Budget
Department
Vendor: Lexis-Nexis, a Division of RELX, Inc. Lexis-Nexis Risk Solutions Florida, Inc., Miamisburg,
Ohio
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Online Legal Research Services
Original Contract Period: 4/1/2013 - 3/31/2016 with two (2) one-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/1/2019 thru 3/31/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $7,371,392.00

Page 49 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 3/20/2013, $1,587,600.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 10/23/2013,
2/10/2016,
$1,237,000.00, 4/1/2016 - 3/31/2017; 4/12/2017,
3/14/2018, $1,254,000.00, 4/1/2018 - 3/31/2019

$1,300,000.00; 4/1/2015, $600,000.00;
$1,254,000.00, 4/1/2017 - 3/31/2018;

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): 2/9/2015 - $138,792.00
This Increase Requested: $1,254,000.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2019 $1,254,000.00
Accounts:
11276.1040.520830 Professional
Services:
$594,000.00;
11000.1007.530646 Lexis
$15,300.00; 11100.1231.530641 Publications: $90,000.00; 11100.1499.530646 Lexis Nexis: $554,700.00

Nexis:

Contract Number(s): 12-23-241
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
waiver with indirect participation.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This time extension and increase will allow the Assessor’s Office, Revenue Department,
Sheriff’s Office, and Budget Department to continue to access the Lexis-Nexus Online Legal Research
Services.

This contract was awarded through the Request for Proposals (RFP) process in accordance with the
Cook County Procurement Code. Lexis-Nexis was awarded based on established evaluation criteria.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
ADULT PROBATION

19-1718
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Adult Probation Department, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Cornell Interventions, Inc., Woodridge, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to extend contract

Page 50 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Good(s) or Service(s): Substance Abuse Treatment and Counseling Services
Original Contract Period: 6/1/2013 - 5/31/2016, with two (2) one-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 12/1/2018 - 5/30/2019
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $313,000.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/29/2013, $173,000.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s):
11/30/2018

5/10/2017, 6/1/17 - 5/31/2018; 6/27/2018, 6/1/2018 -

Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s)
11/2/2015, $120,000.00; 6/17/2016, 6/1/2016 - 5/31/2017

or

Extension(s):

5/16/2014,

$20,000.00;

This Increase Requested: N/A
Potential Fiscal Impact: N/A
Accounts: N/A
Contract Number(s): 1388-12605
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
waiver

The Chief Procurement Officer
Summary:
This time extension will allow the Cornell Interventions, Inc. to provide a continuum of
services while a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) process is completed. This contract provides
specialized treatment services ordered by the court for adult criminal offenders, who participate in the
Circuit Court’s drug treatment court programs. Terms of service and pricing during the extension period
are unchanged from the original contract period. Services provided under the contract include assessment,
detoxification, counseling, residential rehabilitation, Level I and Level II outpatient treatment, case
management, toxicology, and aftercare, as deemed appropriate, billed to the Cook County at the
prescribed hourly rates. This contract is a part of a service network that encompasses all of Cook County,
that assist offenders in their own community.

This contract was awarded through the Request for Proposal (RFP) process in accordance with Cook
County Procurement Code and was awarded based on established evaluation criteria.

Page 51 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF JUDGE
JUDICIARY

19-1523
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: TASC, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Patient Care Management Services - Area 2
Original Contract Period: 7/1/2015 - 6/30/2018 with two (2) one-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 7/1/2019 - 6/30/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $808,473.70
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 6/10/2015, $600,394.70
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 6/27/2018, $208,079.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $212,337.06
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2019 $17,694.06, FY 2020 $194,643.00
Accounts: 11100.1310.35095.520840.00000.00000
Contract Number(s): 1430-13970B
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
waiver with indirect participation

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary:

This increase and second of two (2) one (1) year renewal options provides patient care

Page 52 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

management services to adult offenders participating in the Circuit Court of Cook County’s adult mental
health treatment courts located geographically in the south (Area 2) covering the George N. Leighton
Courthouse, the Fourth (4th) Municipal District (Maywood) and the Sixth (6th) Municipal District Courts.
Services include screening and clinical assessments, case planning, referral to substance abuse and mental
health treatment services and intensive case management.
The Circuit Court’s Specialty/Treatment Court Program operates a network of 20 courts in Chicago and
across suburban Cook County which are dedicated to providing mental health treatment, veterans support,
and drug treatment. The program helps low level criminal defendants who suffer from an underlying
mental health, social or substance abuse problem from becoming repeat offenders. The hallmark of the
program is intensive judicial supervision and the delivery of treatment and services from community-based
sources, such as TASC which has provided services to the Circuit Court's Specialty/Treatment Courts
Program since 2010.
This contract was awarded through a Request for Proposals (RFP) process in accordance with the Cook
County Procurement Code. TASC, Inc. was selected based on established evaluation criteria.
19-1578
Presented by: TIMOTHY C. EVANS, Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT
Department(s): Office of the Chief Judge, Circuit Court of Cook County
Vendor: Twomaytoz, Inc., Oak Park, Illinois
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Juror Food Services
Original Contract Period: 4/1/2015 - 3/31/2018 with two (2) one-year renewal options
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 4/1/2019 - 3/31/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,312,850.00
Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 3/11/2015, $1,062,850.00
Previous Board Increase(s) or Extension(s): 3/14/2018, 4/1/2018-3/31/2019, $250,000.00
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): None
This Increase Requested: $201,031.31

Page 53 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2019 $134,021.00, FY 2020 $67,010.31
Accounts: 11100.1310.15345.520230.000000.00000
Contract Number(s): 1490-13941
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via direct.

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of two (2) one-year renewal options will allow Twomaytoz, Inc. to
continue to provide food services to impaneled jurors at the Richard J. Daley Center and Domestic
Violence courthouses.

This contract was awarded through the competitive bidding process in accordance with the Cook County
Procurement Code. Twomaytoz, Inc. was the lowest, responsive and responsible bidder.
OFFICE OF THE SHERIFF
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES

19-1532
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED CONTRACT AMENDMENT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Sheriff’s Bureau of Information Technology
Vendor: Tribridge Holdings, LLC, Tampa, Florida
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to renew and increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Learning Management Software Maintenance and Jail Management Information

System Upgrades
Original Contract Period: 5/8/2013 - 5/7/2018 with two (2), one (1) year renewals
Proposed Contract Extension Period: 5/8/2019 - 5/7/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $4,436,052.00

Page 54 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

Original Approval (Board or Procurement): 5/8/2013, $2,179,500.00
Previous

Board

Increase(s)

or

Extension(s):

(1/15/2014,

$886,555.00)

(11/16/2016,

$506,400.00)

(10/11/2017, $863,597.00, 5/8/2018 - 5/7/2019)
Previous Chief Procurement Officer Increase(s) or Extension(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $478,374.00
Potential Fiscal Impact: FY 2019 $294,051.50, FY 2020 $184,322.50
Accounts: 11100.1217.15050.540136
Contract Number(s): 1311-12685
Concurrences:
The vendor has met the Minority-and Women-owned Business Enterprise Ordinance via full MWBE
waiver

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
The Chief Information Officer concurs.
Summary: This increase and second of two (2) one-year renewals will allow the Sheriff’s Office to
continue to receive maintenance and support for licensed Offender360 system and the Cornerstone
OnDemand LMS system. The renewal cost includes licenses, support, new version releases of the
product, service packs, and enhancement services for Offender360 (Cook County Offender Management
System).

This contract was awarded to allow the Sheriff’s Office to continue to help manage the intake, housing,
transportation, release, and other day to day operations of the custodial jail population as well as those in
custody on community corrections.
This contract was awarded as a Sole Source Procurement pursuant to Section 34-139 of the Cook County
Procurement Code.

Page 55 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-1701
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT
Department(s): Cook County Sheriff’s Office
Other Part(ies): Chicago Housing Authority, Office of the Inspector General, Chicago, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an Interagency Agreement
Good(s) or Service(s): Utilization of the Cook County Sheriff’s Maywood Firing Range, located at 1311
Maybrook Drive, Maywood, Illinois, for annual range qualification
Agreement period: Upon execution of this agreement by all the parties and continue for one (1) year
Fiscal Impact: None. Revenue Neutral
Accounts: None
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Summary/Notes: As part of this agreement, the Cook County Sheriff’s Office will allow the Chicago
Housing Authority, Office of the Inspector General, full use of all operable lanes at the Maywood Firing
Range on the scheduled date(s) and for the period(s) of time agreed upon by the parties.

Under this agreement, the Chicago Housing Authority, Office of the Inspector General agrees to pay a
Range Maintenance Fee of $100.00 per day that the Agency is provided range access.
To reimburse
Cook County Sheriff’s Office for staffing costs, Agency agrees to pay the Cook County Sheriff’s Office
an hourly rate of $60.00 per hour for each hour Agency has Range Access.
Accordingly, the total
amount invoiced per day of use will be calculated as follows: $100.00 + ($60.00 x (Number of Hours
Spent at Range)).
If the Agency does not provide its own Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board certified
firearms instructor, Agency agrees to pay Cook County Sheriff’s Office the rate of $65.00 per hour per
Cook County Sheriff’s Office firearms instructor assigned to certify successful completion of the annual
range qualification by Agency’s officers.
Permission is hereby requested for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office or his designee on behalf of Cook
County, to be authorized to enter into agreements with other agencies, with respect to further
implementation of such agreements.

Page 56 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-1977
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Cook County Sheriff’s Police Department
Other Part(ies): Village of Bridgeview, Bridgeview, Illinois
Request: Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement
Goods

or

Services:

Hireback

Police

Services

provided

by

the

Cook

County

Sheriff’s

Police

Department
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Upon execution of this agreement by all the parties and continue for one (1) year
Fiscal Impact: None. Revenue Neutral
Accounts: None
Summary:

As part of this agreement, the Sheriff’s Office will assign Cook County Sheriff’s Police

Department (“CCSPD”) Canine Unit Officers to patrol SeatGeek Stadium (“Premises) and conduct
canine sweeps with an explosive detection canine prior to and during scheduled games and events.
Under this agreement the Village of Bridgeview agrees to pay the CCSPD the rate of $60.00 per hour per
Extra Duty Officer for the Police Services rendered by CCSPD officers on an Extra Duty basis.

Said

payment shall be used by CCSPD to pay a stipend of $50.00 per hour, with no additional benefit or
compensation, to the assigned Extra Duty Officers and $10.00 per hour to reimburse CCSPD for the cost
of police administration and the use of CCSPD vehicles.

Page 57 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

March 21, 2019

19-2304
Presented by: THOMAS J. DART, Sheriff of Cook County
PROPOSED APPOINTMENT
Appointee(s): Kimberly Pate Godden
Position: Member
Department/Board/Commission: Cook County Sheriff’s Merit Board
Effective date: Immediate
Expiration date: Third Monday in March, 2025, or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
Summary:

This appointment is being made pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/3-7002 as amended by the 100th

General Assembly and shall be effective immediately and “shall be staggered consistently with the terms
of the other Board members.

Successors … shall be appointed to hold office for a term ending on the

third Monday in March 6 years following the preceding term expiration.”

Page 58 of 58

 Board of Commissioners

Board Agenda

March 21, 2019

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

BUSINESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 19, 2019
19-1767 PROPOSED RESOLUTION 7415 St. Louis LLC 6b Property Tax Incentive Request
19-1806 PROPOSED RESOLUTION MIF 6620 River (Hodgkins) LLC 6b Property Tax Incentive
Request
19-1807 PROPOSED RESOLUTION MIF 6600 River (Hodgkins) LLC 6b Property Tax Incentive
Request
19-1965 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT An Amendment To Chapter 74, Article II, Real
Property Taxation
___________
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 19, 2019
19-1907 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Requesting A Hearing Of The Technology And Innovation
Committee To Discuss The Feasibility And Efficacy Of Voluntary Remote Court Appearances
19-1710 REPORT Bureau of Technology, Information Security Framework Semi-Annual Report
Report Period: 8/1/2018-1/31/2019
19-1675 PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY), SHI International Corp., Somerset, New Jersey
___________
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 19, 2019
19-1971 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Urging The U.S. Congress To Provide Emergency Legislation To
Prevent The Deportation Of Recipients Of Deferred Action For Childhood Arrivals (DACA) And
Temporary Protected Status (TPS) To Stabilize The Economic And Socio-Emotional Well-Being Of
Impacted Youth And Their Families
___________
RULES COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 20, 2019
19-2259 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the Consent Calendar meeting held on 2/20/2019
19-2260 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS of the regular meeting held on 2/21/2019
___________

 Board of Commissioners

Board Agenda

March 21, 2019

FINANCE COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 20, 2019

COURT ORDERS
WORKERS' COMPENSATION CLAIMS
PROPOSED SETTLEMENTS
EMPLOYEES' INJURY COMPENSATION CLAIMS
19-2165 REPORT Quarterly Litigation Disbursement Q1 FY19 12/1/2018-2/28/2019
19-2236 REPORT Self-Insurance Claims Month Ending 2/28/2019
19-2189 REPORT Comptrollers Period Ending Month Ending 1/31/2019
19-1468 REPORT Health & Hospital Month Ending March 2019
19-1715 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT BMO Line of Credit
19-0855 PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT Predictable Recording Fee Ordinance
___________

ZONING COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 20, 2019
19-2240 RECOMMENDATION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS Special Use &
Variations SU18-06 & V18-26
___________

LEGISLATION AND INTERGOVERNMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE
MEETING OF MARCH 20, 2019
19-1440 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Jaime di Paulo, Board Member, Cook County Commission on
Small Business and Supplier Diversity
19-1443 PROPOSED APPOINTMENT Karen Riley, Board Member, Cook County Commission on
Small Business and Supplier Diversity

 Board of Commissioners

Board Agenda

March 21, 2019

19-1878 PROPOSED RESOLUTION Requesting A Hearing Of The Legislation And Intergovernmental
Relations Committee To Discuss The Status Of The Cook County Sheriff’s Prescription Drug Take Back
Program
___________

 