th
February 13
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:00 AM; Commenced at 10:45 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (2/13/2019)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”.

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Alejandro S
Johnny Miller, Robert Patterson, Andre Youngblood. Kevin Irvine was absent.
PUBLIC COMMENT: April Lawson, Arielle Maffei

NEW BUSINESS: At the request of the Chairman, President Carter and staff updated the
management’s planning for, and response to, the extreme winter weather that has blanke
Chicago region during recent weeks.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
January th9, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with five yes votes and one
abstention (Miller).

EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board convened into Executive Session, pursuant to Section 2, Paragrap
Sub-paragraph 11 of the Open Meetings Act. No action was taken during Executive Session.

BOARD MATTERS: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve a resolution setting the date
time of the November, 2019 Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting. After being moved and secon
the motion to approve the resolution passed with six yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY: Committee Vice-Chairman J
Miller presented the report. The committee approved the October, 2018 Committee minut
Miller also stated that the Committee reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus and recommen
Board approval for an ordinance authorizing an extension of the 111A Pullman Shuttle. M
concluded his report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Alejandro Silva prese
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (February) report on Finance, and approved the Janu
13th, 2019 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda item
listed on the Committee Agenda, were presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omn
recommended for Board approval. Mr. Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Directors Miller and Si
After being moved and seconded, the motion was approved with six yes votes.

All approved January 2019 Board resolutions and ordinances are available on-line,
www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Resolution Number R019-1 an
Ordinance Numbers 019-5 through 019-20.

1

 CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney, Jr. presented the Constru
Report. The report is availableon-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “ChicagoTransit Board”,
“Presentations made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (February 2019), “Construction Report”.
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn ththe
, 2019
February 13
Chicago Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 