Commissioners
MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN. Commissioner

LANCE GOUGH,Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting
Januarys, 2019,9:30a.m.

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room,Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chair

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director [absent]
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Trupti Patel
Irish Sheehy
Guests;

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago {LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Bebe Novich, Equip For Equality
Thomas Arends

Sue Casey, ES&S
Romaine Wade

Igor Studenkov, Austin Weekly News
George Blakemore
I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 11:39 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: Secretary Kresse requested that, in order to add to the item, item IV of
the agenda be tabled until the next Regular Board Meeting.

IV.

Approval of Minutes

A.

Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 13, 2018. Tabled [see item III

Consideration of Agenda].

V.

Executive Director's Report[Executive Director Lance Gough was absent from this meeting]
A.

Assistant Executive Director [Charles Holiday]
69 West Washington Street. Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602•312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027

chlcago8lectlons.com•cboe@chicagoelectlons.net•@ChlcagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting -January 8. 2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Last 4 Record Exams started Friday and should be completed soon. There are 2 in the 20*''
ward and 2In the 24*'' ward.
Started flies for military ballot

300,000 emails are being sent out regarding Vote by Mall (VBM).
Preparing touch screens and related audio for the ballots.

We have a Request for Proposal(RFP)for cartage. On January 10*'' there will be a pre-bid
meeting at our warehouse at 11:00 a.m.

Mr. Holiday congratulated Amanda Robledo and Sherry Zabel on the greatjob they did with
the RFP and their work In the Purchasing Department.

Registrations are still being processed,though many of the staff have been working on
Electoral Board Records Exams.

Communications Director [Jim Allen]

VBM ballot program moving well off to a great start.
Anticipate 100,000 VBM applications

We have been invited to participate in a Chicago Public Schools'(CPS)outreach to Civics
instruction - Mr. Allen accepted the invitation.

CPS using our "how to videos," including how to organize a field trip to vote.
Early Voting (EV)- uncertain when we can start at 175 W Washington because we don't
have the ballot firmed up yet.
Got word out to the media regarding EV.

Good chunk of 300,000 emails regarding VBM have been sent out. The emails "prime the
pump for VBM." Approximately 100,000 emails yet to be sent out. They are to be sent
out by the end of this week.

Bebe Novich of Equip For Equality(EFE) was invited to provide a status report to the Board on the
joint Americans with Disabilities Act(ADA) project. Ms. Novich reported:
• Approximately 575 surveys were completed from the November election.

• Some survey takers had some problems with connectivity, as the survey relies on

connectivity. EFE is working with a tech team to determine solutions to connectivity
issues.

• Working with CBEC to coordinate for the next couple of elections.
• Work with Department of Justice(DOJ) was going well and will resume as soon as the
Federal government shutdown is over.
Vi.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: to be taken up following
the Municipal election.

B.
C.

Electronic Poll Books: Everything is going well with e-poll books.
Voting Equipment:to be taken up following the Municipal election.
Page 2 of3

 Regular Board Meeting -January 8,2018
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

D.
VII.

VIII.

Legislation: General Counsel Adam Lasker reported that he will be working on the
legislative agenda as soon as most of the Electoral Board cases have completed.

New Business: none.

Legal Report: Mr. Lasker reported that the City referenda case's briefing has been completed.The
court will advise regarding oral arguments.

IX.
X.

Financial Report: none.
Public Comment:

George Blakemore addressed the Board regarding citizen participation, outreach to the public,
and public attendance at Board meetings.
XI.

Executive Session: None.

XIi.

Adjournment: Commissioner Kresse moved to adjourn until the next regular meeting on January
22"''. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion.The motion passed by unanimous vote of the
Board. The Board adjourned at 11:52 a.m.

Submitted,

Commlssi^n/r William J. Kresse
Secretary

Pages of 3

 