Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, February 22, 2019 at the hour of 10:00 A.M.
at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Heather M.
Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH; and Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (4)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director Mary B. RichardsonLowry
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr.; Karen Kim, MD; and Patricia Merryweather (NonDirector Members)

Absent:

(0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Claudia Fegan, MD – Chief Medical Officer
Valerie Hansbrough, MD – Provident Hospital of
Cook County
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s) (Attachment #2)
Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer, presented the following Stroger Hospital Division Chair Initial
Appointments for the Committee’s consideration:

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, February 22, 2019
Page 2

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and
Division Chair(s) (continued)
Name
Erin Farlow, MD

Department/Appt Term
Surgery
02/22/2019 – 07/21/2020

Title
Division Chair of
Vascular Surgery

Mark Mycyk, MD

Emergency Medicine
02/22/2019 – 10/15/2020

Division Chair of
Research

Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the two (2) proposed Stroger Hospital Division Chair Initial
Appointments. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #3)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, was unable
to attend the meeting due to a work-related conflict.
Director Suleiman Gonzalez, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, presented the
medical staff matters for the Committee’s consideration.
Director Prendergast, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, January 18, 2019
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to accept
the Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of January
18, 2019. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Any items listed under Sections IV and VI

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, February 22, 2019
Page 3

V.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Quality (Attachment #4)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the presentation, which included information on the following
subjects:
























Framework for Governance of Health System Quality
Zero Preventable Harm, Injury and Death
Framework for Safety and Reliability
Impact 2020 – Progress and Updates
Patient Experience 2018 – Stroger Hospital, Provident Hospital and Ambulatory and Community
Health Network of Cook County
High Reliability Safety Bundle for Everyone
High Reliability Safety Bundle Curriculum
Cook County Health (CCH) Healthcare-Associated Infections Reduction Accomplishments, 2018
Infection Control Surveillance Focus
CCH Accreditations, Certifications and Designations
Key Structures and Relationships
Safety Culture: Built on Trust
Keys to Success
Whole System Measurement
System Quality and Patient Safety Strategy – Checklist
Quality and Patient Safety Infrastructure
Intelligence Data Value Chain
Strategic Planning 2020-2022
CCH Theory of Change
Improve the Patient Experience
Workforce Development
HPI Plan in 2019
Six (6) Quality Focus Areas 2019

Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, provided information on the work being done by HPI, as
referenced on slide 28 of the presentation. CCH has had a three (3) year contract with this group, which
is a high reliability and training organization. The first phase of their work involved an assessment of
safety events in the organization. The second phase focused on initial training and sensitivity training, the
importance of safety event reporting, working on core values, leveling the playing field, and raising
awareness and expectations for event reporting. This year, which is the third year of the contract, the
work plan will focus on developing specific skills and tools for practices that are likely to enhance both a
safety process and also a safe culture. This training will be offered across the entire organization.
Director Driscoll inquired regarding how the administration will measure the success of the plan and
whether the results will be shared with the Board. Dr. Wyatt responded that the administration has
identified focus areas for quality measurement going into this year and beyond. Under the direction of
Dr. Shannon, a steering committee that is co-chaired by Dr. Fegan and Debra Carey, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer of Operations, has been established, that has begun to meet and develop quality
measurement strategies. Under that steering committee, workgroups have also been established that will
report to the steering committee and subsequently to the Board, through the Quality and Patient Safety
Committee.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, February 22, 2019
Page 4

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 