3-2279'14

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

,7


.1

con 




T: 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL


EARL C. WINFREY

December 11, 1927 March 7, 2019
In Memoriam

Earl C. Winfrey was born December 11, 1927 in Grays, Arkansas to the union of Alex
and Lily Grant Winfrey. He was one of seven children. While in Arkansas he met the
love of his life, Doris Evelyn Branch. By 1953 they united in holy matrimony; and

Earl C. Winfrey moved his family to Detroit, Michigan where they became homeowners
on the city?s Northwest side. They lived there for over forty years together. The couple
adored traveling throughout the United States and spending quality time with family.
They remained in holy matrimony for sixty-three years; and

Earl C. Winfrey as affectionately known by his grandchildren as, ?Big Pops?. He enjoyed
hosting Easter Egg Hunts, Super Bowl parties, and family reunions. He especially loved
baking Christmas cookies with his grandchildren and their friends; and

Earl C. Winfrey was not only a dedicated family man but was also devoted to the Adat
Shalom Synagogue. There he spent forty-four years as the Head Custodian. He possessed
a strong will but kind heart and relished in serving his community inside and out of the

synagogue; and

It being the will of our Lord to call our beloved home after a long life of service, Earl C.
Winfrey transitioned from this life, ?om labor to reward; THEREFORE, BE IT

That the Of?ce of Councilman Scott Benson and Detroit City Council expresses their
deepest condolences and share their sympathy in the loss of your loved one, Earl C.
Winfrey . Your loss is heaven?s gain. May God bless you and comfort you during this
time and always.

COUNCIL 541?1.?: 

?i NEE 
March 019

 

DATE

WHEREAS.

WHEREAS?Cesr?ima/zmt tuisatm?rmz

In \[emoriam

DR IVAN LOUIS SR

ALS

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

i? e. the members ofthe Detroit City Council. solemn?. pal.

?es :07 1?
late. Dr. Iran Louis Cotrnan, Sr.. a belox ed husband. tarh er - grand-12:21:: 1
heaxenl} transition on March 9. 2019; and

A natite Detroiter. Ivan Louis Cotrnan was born on April -1. 19-10. to the 13:2 Lo; 5 K25:
Cotman. He v. as the eldest of two children It an as baptized and 11? SE- 
Greektoun. where he attended grade school. He graduated from Detroit Saiesiar: :l-Iigi' Sc?? 35:. lun

Leadership and Administration He also studied at Harvard 5 J. F. K. School 0t Gm ernrnent ?ne nix-2753:
of\1anchester In England; and

It an married Jeanetta Hawkins Cotrnan the love of his life. on August 18. 196-1, follouing 3 cc j: 1'51".
began during their college years at Kentucky State University To this union three sons 11 ere born: 11. in. A7131- 
and Amir. an ?3 career began as a social worker with the Detroit Public Schools 5} Stem. He also 11 :rked 
United Community Services of Metropolitan Detroit as the Agency Program Consultant Assis tan: :ige?.
Director. and with New Detroit as the Director of Employment. In 1973. Ivan joined the \lichi gar Derartme':
of Education (MDOE). From 1973 to 1994 he held several positions with the MDOE including 
Superintendent and Director of the Off cc of Enrichment and Community Services He sen ed in 2:13
administrations ofMichigan Governors Milliken, Blanchard and Engler. Following a five- ear stint at Dar erpcr?.
University as Director of the Detroit of?ce, Dr. Cotrnan established Cotrnan and Associates. a philant1hro;:c

consulting ?rm. His career in education administration spanned thirty? eight years; and

Dr. Cotrnan was civic minded and participated energetically on numerous local regional and nat: onal boa:

He also served as an elected member of the Detroit Board of Education; board member of Lnited 1.1. ax 
Southeastern Michigan; Midwest Vice President of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. and was the thim-thi :3
President of the Gamma Lambda Chapter in Detroit. His volunteer work involved projects in Israel 2'
Dubai the Detroit Orchestra Roots Committee and the Moors Men 5 Club. He leax es to cher?z'n 



memory. his wife, Jeanetta; sons, Ivan, Arthur and Arnir; two daughters? ?r-n -law, Rene and Cassandra; four
grandsons Brandon, Jacob, Gray and Amir Jr.; three granddaughters ianae, Chloe and Allie: and a hos: of
friends fraternity brothers and colleagues. Dr. Ivan Louis Cotman has been a good servant and ensured. 
his impact would be forever embedded in the hearts of those he cherished for years to come. 

THEREFORE BE IT

That the of?ces of Alpha Phi Alpha Brothers Councilman James E. Tate, Jr. and Councilman Scott Benson
as well as the entire Detroit City Council, hereby join with family and friends to honor the life and legaq. :5
Dr. Ivan Louis Cotman, Sn. henornenal man and an example for us to aspire toNCJL 11.19.13.113 2 ..
I 
om. 
March 16. 2019

 

DATE


. - --
hi? 
v; a . {21Cesimzarzmt .xesotuttan

MRS. RUTH GAY-mosus
HAth-g 80th 


. . . -. ., . .. 
WHEREAS, Willie Ruth was born to the late Julia Pearl London and John 5 7:21;: - - Ud-J'gl
While Willie Ruth was an only child, she was raised with her nice r. 1: Kite :22:

on their Grandparent?s farm; AND

WHEREAS, Mrs. Gay-Thomas was educated in the states ol'Georgia and Florida. reach in; Inc.- 
RuthruffAdult Education in Detroit. Michigan. She continued her education by he; 

cosmetologist from Virginia Farrell Beauty Schools in l990. received a Ministe?ai Trainisg t:
2006, and most recently receiving an Associates in .u'vlental Health from \k'ayne 

College in 2014 atage 75; AND

WHEREAS, Mrs. Gay-Thomas began her family at the age of 16, marrying the late Elmo Gay, Sr.. and to 17?.2: 
four children were born; Elmo, Julena, Bonita and Alvin. Willie Ruth later moved from Maxi. C- 
to Detroit, Michigan in 1960, where she worked as a saleswoman at the historic J.L.Hudson?s department
store and eventually became a UAW member working with Ford Motor Company, as a Power Sewing
Machine Operator. It was there she met Larnel Theodore Byrd, and they gave birth to her younger
daughter Sherry; AND

WHEREAS, Mrs. Gay?Thomas always being a woman of faith, she gave her life to Christ in the year 19.75 at Jo:-
Temple Church of God and Christ. Pastor Ned Fultch. in 19?8 she became a member of Greater Grace
Temple where she has been active in the Missionary, Nursing Home and Prison Ministries and the Music.
She remains an active member to this date, receiving a Certi?cate of Appreciation from Mound
Correctional Facility, and Huron Valley Correctional Facility for her participation in Greater Grace
Temple Prison Ministry; AND

WHEREAS, Known for her stylish attire, Willie Ruth enjoys making many ol?her own clothes as is a seamstress. She
also enjoys singing. a gift that she helped to cultivate in her daughter, as well as traveling. She helped
found two singing groups, Detroit Tones ofFaith and Detroit Cavalettes. She has recently found iL"\ and
married Willie Alphonso Thomas in September, 2018. Willie Ruth Gay-Thomas has overcome many
adverslties in life and has demonstrated how prayer and action can help one achieve anything regardless
of age; NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, That on this day, March 17, 2019, Councilman James E. Tate, 11:. and the entire Detroit City
Council, hereby present this testimonial resolution as an expression of gratitude and esteem
to Mrs. Willie Ruth Gay-Thomas in recognition of her 30'? Birthday. May you continue to live your life
to the fullest and be blessed with many more years to come!

u.
I 
councap 
A in}. -. ..

.. ..
n.

A?A'hc . I- 
t3- CILM --: Ft
1/ law I [we
I C-NIL MBR
vi MARCH 17, :19
l?
DATE

 

