Commissioners

MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Minutes of the

Regular Board Meeting
January 22, 2019,10:30 a.m.

69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room,Chicago, Illinois 60602

Board Members:

Marlsel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel

Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Amanda Robelo, Purchasing

Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Geneva Morris, Videographer
Trupti Patel
Irish Sheehy
Guests;

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition

I.

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order by the Chair at 10:36 am.

II.

Roll Call: All members were presents

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes:
A.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 13, 2018; Commissioner Swain

moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 13, 2018.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The Minutes were approved by a 3:0 vote of
the Board.

B.

Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 27, 2018; Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of November 27, 2018.
Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The Minutes were approved by unanimous
vote of the Board.

69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602•312-269-7900• TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoelections.com • cboe@chtcagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Regular Board Meeting -January 22,2019
Chicago Board of Qection Commissioners

V.

Executive Director's Report
Executive Director Lance Gough reported:

• Mr. Gough has a copy of the iliinois State Board of Elections'(iSBE) legislative agenda and
will be discussing it further with General Counsel Adam Lasker and individual Board
members. Additionally, he will discuss with General Counsel Adam Lasker and individual

Board members the possibility of adding sanctions for "bad faith" objections to
nominating papers.

• iSBE Is coming in to test our vote counting equipment and perform a cybersecurity
evaluation of our central office equipment.
A.

Assistant Executive Director

Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday reported:

• He commended the handwriting experts for their work during the Electoral Board
Records Exams.This year we had the most records exams.The handwriting experts are
working on the last case, a Treasurer's race case. This should be done this afternoon.

• The Registration Department is on track with the registration processing.

• We will possibly open the Early Voting (EV)supersite on the 28*^ or 30*'^ depending on the
ballot and getting the equipment ready. Everything is currently on track for the 28^'^.
• ES&S Is prepping for Judge of Election training and the testing of e-poll books.

• in a related note. General Counsel Lasker reported that there is 1 municipal race case and
20-24 aidermanic cases still in house to be decided.
B.

Communications Director

Communications Director Jim Allen reported:

•

He recently participated with Chicago Public Schools(CPS) Civics instructors, and other
groups including Mikva Challenge, to explain resources available through the Board and
ideas for planning in advance of the election and for field trips to voting sites.

• We are scheduled to "drop" a mass mailing to voters on Feb 7*^.

• Sample ballots will go on line in tandem with the Supersite opening.

• Regarding posting candidate contact information that we gathered during petition filings:
we have some incomplete information. Mr. Allen requests permission from the Board to
write to candidates where the information was incomplete. All Board members agreed to
give Mr. Alien permission to write to the candidates regarding this matter.
Vi.

Old Business

A.

infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: Will return to this subject
after the April election.

B.

Electronic Poll Books: Already reported that ail is going well with the e-poil books.

C.

Voting Equipment: Matters are progressing well in this area too.

D.

Legislation: General Counsel Lasker reported that the Board's legislative agenda will
include a proposal to add the power to impose sanctions for bad faith objections. Mr.
Page 2 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -January 22,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Lasker reported that he has spoken with nnembers of the Association of Election

Commissions of Illinois(AECOl)and the General Counsel of the ISBE about working on
legislation that are In accord to the Board's legislative agenda.

Mr. Lasker further reported that he will be working with the Illinois House Speaker's
office with regard the Board's legislative agenda.
VII.

New Business

A.

Approval of a short-term property use agreement with 108 North State Street(Chicago)
Owner, LLC (d/b/a "Block 37")for training facilities for judges of election and election
coordinators in relation to the February and April 2019 elections at a cost of $40,000.00.
• We have had training there in the past, with essentially the same agreement.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the short-term property use agreement with
108 North State Street(d/b/a "Block 37") with the term of the agreement being from
January 28,2019 through, and including April 2,2019, at a cost of $40,000 for the entire
term. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed and the agreement
was approved by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.

Approval of an agreement with 3xData Corp.for provisional ballot fulfillment services for
the February and April 2019 elections at an estimated cost of $33,719.32 for each
election.

• Follows the previous contract, with the purpose of providing provisional ballots for out of
precinct votes. This is an extension to the previous contract. This is an expertise contract;
it was bid out In the past, and this vendor was the only responder.

• Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the agreement with 3xData Corp for provisional
ballot fulfillment services for the February and April 2019 elections at an estimated cost
of $33,719.32 for each election. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The
agreement was approved by a 3:0 vote of the Board.
C.

Approval of an agreement with 3xData Corp.for absentee/mail-in ballot fulfillment

services for the February and April 2019 elections at an estimated cost of $306,487.00for
each election.

• Mr. Gough explained that this is basically an extension of existing contract, and that the
vendor did well in the past with the last minute ballot changes. The vendor cost Is based
on an estimated 150,000 ballots.

• Commissioner Kresse moved to approve the agreement with 3xData Corp for absentee
(VBM)fulfilment for both the February and April 2019 elections. Commissioner Swain
seconded the motion. The motion was approved by 3:0 vote of the Board.

D.

Possible Board action for ballot forfeiture as required by the Illinois State Board of
Elections pursuant to 10ILCS 5/9-30.

•

Mr. Lasker explained that Article 9 states in part as follows:

"Ballot forfeiture. The State Board of Elections shall not certify the name of any person
who has not paid a civil penalty imposed against his or her political committee under this

Article to appear upon any ballot for any office in any election if the penalty Is unpaid by
the date required for certification."
Page 3 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -January 22,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

"The State Board of Elections shall generate a list of all candidates whose political
committees have not paid any civil penalty assessment against them under this Article,
Such list shall be transmitted to any election authority whose duty it is to place the name
of any such candidate on the ballot The election authority shall not place upon the ballot
the name of any candidate appearing on this list for any office in any election while the
penalty is unpaid, unless the candidate has requested a hearing and the [ISBE] Board has
not disposed of the matter by the date of certification."

The Illinois State Board of Elections (ISBE) periodically transmits its updated Ballot Forfeiture List
to the Chicago Board, most recently on December 20,2018, which was the statutory deadline for
ballot certification for the February 26,2019,consolidated election. The Director of the ISBE

Campaign Disclosure Division sends us the list, along with subsequent periodic emails informing
us of any candidates who have paid off their debts to the ISBE and have therefore been removed
from the list. As of 8:11 a.m. this morning only 1 candidate that would affect the Chicago ballot,
Matthew Johnson, remained on the forfeiture list.

Matthew Johnson's committee. All Citizens for Matthew Johnson,owes a $10,000 fine to the
ISBE. Because we must comply with the Statute, Mr. Lasker requested a motion that Matthew
Johnson's name not appear on the ballot unless he pays off the fine before we have to finalize
the touchscreen machines and send the ballots to the printer, which will be no later than the
25'^
Commissioner Kresse asked if Mr. Lasker believed that the ISBE had notified Mr.Johnson of the

fine. Mr. Lasker answered in the affirmative; that there's plenty of due process. The ISBE did its
due diligence. The ballot forfeiture list is posted on the ISBE website. Commissioner Kresse

moved to NOT print the name of Candidate Matthew Johnson upon any ballots for the February
26,2019 municipal and aldermanic elections pursuant to 10ILCS 5/9-30 unless the candidate
takes the necessary action to be removed from the Illinois State Board of Elections' official Ballot

Forfeiture List and provides notice of same to the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners prior
to the date that the Chicago Board finalizes its ballots for printing and production. Commissioner
Swain seconded the motion.The motion passed by unanimous vote of the Board.
VIII.

Legal Report

• The Legal Department helps prepare the Canvass schedule, and proposes that due to the tight
scheduling of elections that we schedule the proclamation 15 days after the election, March 13ith
which is the earliest that we can proclaim as the statutory deadline for the return of VBM ballots

is the 14*^ day after the election, or March 12.
•

Commissioner Swain asked how this schedule will work. Mr. Lasker noted that under the statutes
a candidate cannot file contests or seek discovery recounts until after the results of the election

are proclaimed. So we are giving the canvass proclamation process the shortest window possible,
because there isn't much time between March 13^^ and April 2"*^ to perform a recount if
necessary.

IX.

Financial Report: none.

X.

Public Comment: none.

XI.

Executive Session: none.

XII.

Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn until the next scheduled Regular Board
Page 4 of5

 Regular Board Meeting -January 22,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

Meeting of February 14th. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The Board voted
unanimously to adjourn. The meeting was adjourned at 11:03 am.
Submitted,

Commlssi

Secretary

Page 5 of5

illiam J. Kresse

 