City of Detroit

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Community Advisory Committee
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
MINUTES OF THE
REGULAR COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 2019 -- 5:00 PM
AT DEGC OFFICES
500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200
DETROIT, MI
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
PRESENT:
Brad Lutz
Kamal Cheeks
Michelle Lee
Allen Rawls
Sandra Stahl
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Marlowe Stoudamire
Dr. Regina Randall
Rick Blocker
Simone Sagovac
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Richard Barr (Honigman)
Stephen Duczynski (Brush Park South)
Katrina Chaves (City of Detroit)
Maria Mastej (City of Detroit)

 City of Detroit

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Community Advisory Committee
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839
Call to Order
Mr. Rawls, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 5:14 p.m.
General
Approval of Minutes
Mr. Rawls called for approval of the minutes of the October 24, 2018 (resolution) DBRA-CAC meeting. The
Committee took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. Cheeks, seconded by Mr. Lutz, DBRA-CAC Resolution Code 19-01-02-134,
approving the October 24, 2018 CAC minutes, as presented, was unanimously approved.
Projects
Brownfield Plan for Brush Park South
Mr. Vosburg introduced the Brownfield Plan for Brush Park South to the CAC members present.
Project Introduction
Brush Park South Phase I MR LLC is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails a
comprehensive, mixed-use redevelopment of the site. The redevelopment, Brush Park South, is planned
to consist of three mixed-income apartments buildings that will include approximately 149 apartments and
600 square feet of retail space. Approximately 58 apartments will be rented as affordable apartments with
rents restricted and otherwise subject to various requirements to assure their occupancy by residents who
satisfy affordable housing criteria. Twenty-nine of the affordable units will use project-based vouchers
through the Detroit Housing Commission and the other 29 affordable units will use Low Income Housing
Tax Credits. A portion of the remainder of the Property will be used for parking that will remain in place
indefinitely for use by tenants of the new apartment buildings as well as additional parking that will be
available until alternative, permanent alternative parking becomes available either on the east side of Brush
or at other locations. It is expected that the alternative parking will not be available for at least several years.
The total investment is estimated to be $37 million. The Developer is requesting $5,273,310.00 in TIF
reimbursement.
There will be 250 temporary construction jobs and 4-6 FTE jobs. The 250 temporary construction jobs are
expected to be created over a 2-year period once construction begins. The 4-6 FTE jobs will be related to
property management. An unknown number of jobs are expected to be created by one or more businesses
that located in the retail component of the project.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) consists of nine (9) parcels located in the Brush Park area, west of
Brush Street, north of Winder Street and south of the east-west alley between Adelaide and Alfred Street
from Brush Street to John R Street.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) it was previously
utilized for a commercial purpose and/or public purpose; (b) it is located within the City of Detroit, a qualified
local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) it is a facility under Part 201 due to the presence of metals,

 PNAs, PCBs soil and fill or adjacent and contiguous to a facility and the development of the adjacent or
contiguous parcels is estimated to increase the captured taxable value of the remainder of the eligible
property.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include baseline environmental assessment activities, due
care activities, additional response activities, site preparation, infrastructure improvements, development
and preparation of a brownfield plan and work plan, brownfield plan implementation and interest. The
eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be
financed solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and
will incur no debt. The eligible activities are estimated to commence within 18 months of approval of the
Plan and be completed within 3 years after approval of the Michigan Strategic Fund work plan, if applicable,
or three years after execution of the Reimbursement Agreement.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Department Specific Activities
2. Phase I, Phase II, and BEAs
3. Due Care Activities
4. Site Preparation
5. Infrastructure Improvements
6. Brownfield Plan & Act 381 Work Plan
7. Cost Tracking Compliance
8. Contingency – (15%)
9. Interest (5% simple, after expiration of abatements)
*Total Reimbursement to Developer
10. DBRA Administrative Costs
11. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
12. Local Site Remediation Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$3,041,152.00
$60,000.00
$10,000.00
$26,705.00
$542,693.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$541,583.00
$991,177.00
$5,273,310.00
$1,387,555.00
$520,821.00
$2,068,679.00
$7,181,686.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of Commercial
Rehabilitation Act (CRA) Tax Abatement, City of Detroit allocations of HUD Home HOME & Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds, Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LITHC), and Project-Based
Vouchers (PBV) from the Detroit Housing Commission.
Attached for your review and approval are three (3) resolutions: 1.) a resolution supporting the Plan in the
event the Committee does not deem it necessary to conduct a CAC public hearing and 2.) a resolution
authorizing a public hearing in the project area and 3.) a resolution authorizing a public hearing in the project
area and to appoint up to two special CAC members. The public hearing may be held jointly with any public
hearing conducted by the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.
Mr. Duczynski provided additional information about the Project including the Developer is Schostak
Brothers & Company as a joint venture with John Rhea, the contractor is Rockford Construction Company

 working as a joint venture with Jenkins Construction Company, the architect is Hamilton Anderson
Associates with the support of consultants including Giffels Webster as the civil engineer, the local structural
engineer is SDI, the Developer will have construction drawings by February 15, 2019 and expect to start
construction on April 15, 2019 beginning with the removal of soil, the Developer will work with the
contractors to ensure that at least 51% of workers are Detroit residents and 51% of contractors and
subcontractors have addresses in the City of Detroit, and that the Project is subject to the Davis-Bacon Act.
Mr. Barr stated that the Project has had a large amount of support from the City of Detroit, the Housing and
Revitalization Department, the Mayor’s office, the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, and the Detroit
City Planning Commission, and that it is a priority of the City of Detroit to have affordable housing in the
Brush Park area with rates lower than 20% of residential units at 80% of the Area Median Income, and that
the Project will have 35-40% of the residential units at 60% of the Area Median Income or lower, the
affordable residential units will be identical to the market rate units, and that the level of affordability for the
Project has created complex financing.
Mr. Rawls disclosed that Hamilton Anderson is also the architect for the Motown Museum, Giffels Webster
is also working for the Motown Museum, and that John Rea is a distant relative by marriage to Mr. Rawls.
Mr. Rawls asked for more detail on Mr. Rhea and his role in the Project. Mr. Duczenski stated that John
Rhea has returned to Detroit and is working on various developments in the City of Detroit, and Mr. Rhea
is a managing agent of the Developer as part of the joint venture working on the Project.
Ms. Lee asked for more information on the plans for storm water management as part of the Project. Mr.
Duczenski stated that there will be underground retention for storm water based on a ten-year storm, rather
than a one hundred-year storm, along with excavating the existing soil and bringing in more structurally
sound materials.
Mr. Lutz asked what the community engagement for the Project has included. Mr. Duczynski stated that
the Developer met with the Brush Park Community Development Corporation who reviewed and approved
the proposed design for the Project and the Developer will present the Project to the Brush Park Community
Development Corporation in light of changes that have been made since their initial approval.
Mr. Lutz asked if there is an intent for additional phases of the Project. Mr. Duczynski stated that similar to
the City Modern project, the Project will be completed in phases. Phase 1 is the current proposed project
due to the timing of the Low Income Housing Tax Credits. Phase 2 will be property east of Beaubien St.
and Phase 3 will be the construction of 46 townhomes and 22 carriage homes on what is currently the
surface parking lots of Phase 1.
Mr. Rawls asked for the anticipated timeframe for the additional phases for the Project. Mr. Duczynski
stated that the Developer expects all three phases to be completed by 2026.
Mr. Cheeks asked for more information on the relationship with the Detroit Housing Commission for the
Project. Mr. Barr stated that the Project Based Vouchers are through the Detroit Housing Commission and
that the Detroit Housing Commission has been in a supporting role for the Project. Mr. Barr also stated that
29 of the 58 affordable units will utilize Project Based Vouchers. Mr. Vosburg stated that the Project Based
Vouchers were implemented as a replacement for the Section 8 program and are tied to units within the
building, not portable vouchers that tenants take with them.
Ms. Stahl asked when the Project Based Vouchers will expire. Mr. Duczynski stated that the Project Based
Vouchers will be under contract for 25 to 30 years and that the Low Income Housing Tax Credits are under
contract for a minimum of 30 years..
Ms. Stahl asked how much of the total $37 million investment is public financing and how the amount of
public financing would have been different if the affordable housing rates were 20% of the units were at
80% of the Area Median Income. Mr. Barr stated that due to multiple affordable housing sources from the
City and Housing Commission, it increases the complexity and cost of the project. This allows the

 Developer to ensure that a large percentage of units are deeply affordable for many decades. For instance,
because of the HOME funds for the Project, it is subject to the Davis-Bacon Act which increases the
construction labor costs, however the HOME funds have a lower interest rate than other sources of
financing. Similarly the Michigan Economic Development Corporation’s Community Revitalization Program
funding has similar benefits and trade offs. Currently the rental market in Detroit does not support the
increasing construction costs as compared to the rental rates for market rate deals, let alone affordable
units. In other cities rents are much higher making it easier for developers to fund strictly market rate
developments. Mr. Barr added that the Project has 6-8 sources of funding as opposed to traditional projects
that have equity and one other source of lending.
Ms. Stahl asked if this is the first project in Brush Park with this level of affordability. Ms. Chavez stated that
there is another project in the area with a similar level of affordability. Mr. Duczenski stated that what makes
the Project different from many other affordable projects in Brush Park and beyond is that the affordable
units are dispersed throughout the three apartment buildings and not contained in one building or a section
of the building. All units, be they market rate or affordable, have the same high standard of design which
has resulted in increased costs.
Ms. Stahl stated that she noticed some of the design images in the presentation and asked if those design
elements, such as the stoops, will be incorporated into the Project. Mr. Duczenski stated that those design
elements will be incorporated into the Project to make the residential units appear similar to historic building
in Brush Park as well as those found in Boston and other cities.
Mr. Rawls asked what the mix of units will be with regard to studios and one-bedroom units. Mr. Duczenski
stated that there will be studio units with rental rates around $1,400 per month for the market rate units and
$683-713 per month for the affordable units, and one-bedroom units with rental rates around $1,700 per
month for the market rate units and $753-828 per month for the affordable units.
Mr. Rawls asked if there are any other green features or environmental elements in the Project besides the
plans for storm water management. Mr. Duczenski stated that the Project will comply with the requirements
for projects with Low Income Housing Tax Credits. Mr. Barr added that there will be the removal of
approximately six feet of contaminated soils on the Property.
Mr. Rawls called for a motion recommending approval of the Brownfield Plan for Brush Park South.
Ms. Lee motioned to recommend approval of the Brownfield Plan for Brush Park South without a
CAC public hearing and without appointing special members. Mr. Cheeks seconded the motion.
DBRA-CAC Resolution Code 19-01-263-01, recommending approval of the Brownfield Plan for
Brush Park South was unanimously approved.
Administrative
None.
Other
None.
Public Comment
None.
Adjournment
Citing no further business, Mr. Rawls adjourned meeting at 5:55 PM.

 City of Detroit

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Community Advisory Committee
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA CAC 19-01-02-134
APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF OCTOBER 24, 2018
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the regular meeting of October 24, 2018 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the members present at such meeting, as set forth in such
minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Community Advisory
Committee of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.

January 9, 2019

 City of Detroit

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
Community Advisory Committee
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA-CAC 19-01-263-01
BRUSH PARK SOUTH BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the “City”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in
the City; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381, the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the resolution establishing the DBRA and the bylaws of the DBRA, the
DBRA has submitted the proposed Brownfield Plan for the Brush Park South Project (the “Plan”) to the
Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment; and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee, at its January 9, 2019 meeting, received,
evaluated and considered the proposed Plan; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of the resolution establishing the DBRA and the
bylaws of the DBRA, the Community Advisory Committee desires to make recommendations to the DBRA
and the Detroit City Council on the proposed Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. After consideration of the proposed Plan, the Community Advisory Committee makes the following
comment and recommendations on the proposed Plan:
a. The Community Advisory Committee has determined that it is appropriate for the achievement
of the purposes of Act 381 of the DBRA to adopt an Brownfield Plan for the Brush Park South
Brownfield Redevelopment Project.
b. The Community Advisory Committee recommends support of the proposed Plan presented to
it.
2. The Chairperson of the Community Advisory Committee is authorized and directed to transmit a copy
of this Resolution and the minutes of the public hearing on the proposed Plan and of the meeting at
which this Resolution was adopted to the DBRA and the Detroit City Council as the report of the findings
and recommendations of the Community Advisory Committee on the proposed Plan.
3. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this resolution are
rescinded.

January 9, 2019

 