DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
REGULAR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
4:00 PM
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

Matthew Walters
Pamela McClain
Sonya Mays
Juan Gonzalez
Donele Wilkins

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

Stephanie Washington
John George
Ray Scott
Maggie DeSantis

OTHERS PRESENT:

Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Orza Robertson (DEGC)
Ngozi Nwaesei (Lewis & Munday)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC)
Elizabeth Brinson (DEGC)
Ben Phillips (Develop Detroit)
Galaan Dafa (Develop Detroit)
Elizabeth Masserang (PM Environmental)
Bret Stuntz (AKT Peerless)
Nathan Keup (Ginosko Development Co.)

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY REGULAR MEETING
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2018
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD SUITE 2200 DETROIT, MI – 4:00 PM
CALL TO ORDER
Chair Matthew Walters called the meeting to order at 4:04 PM.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the minutes of August 8, 2018 as presented. The Board took the
following action:
On a motion by Ms. Mays, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 18-08-02-239 was
unanimously approved.
Treasurer’s Report
Ms. Brinson presented the July 2018 Treasurer’s report.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the July 2018 Treasurer’s Report as presented. The Board took
the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Mays, seconded by Ms. Wilkins, DBRA Resolution Code 18-08-03-178 was
unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
Brownfield Plan for Lafayette West Redevelopment
Mr. Vosburg presented the Brownfield Plan for the Lafayette West Redevelopment Project.
Project Introduction
Lafayette Acquisition Partners, LLC is the project developer (the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails a
comprehensive, mixed-use redevelopment of the site. The current, vacant, obsolete 8-story university
building and dilapidated parking lot will be demolished. The redevelopment, Lafayette West, is planned to
consist of a 13-story tower, two 4-story residential buildings, and approximately 56 for-sale condominium
townhomes. The tower will be serviced by an underground 3-level parking structure and the two midrise
buildings will be podium style developments with integrated ground level parking and four stories of
apartments atop the parking.
The total investment is estimated to be $111 million. The Developer is requesting $28,116,141.00 in TIF
reimbursement, however only $26,356,887.00 in TIF Reimbursement is projected to be captured for the life
of the Plan.
There will be 428 temporary construction jobs and 8 FTE jobs. The 428 temporary construction jobs are
expected to be created over a 2-year period once construction begins. The 8 FTE jobs may include retail
positions, managerial positions, property maintenance staff, and parking attendants.

 Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) consists of one (1) parcel bounded by Rivard to the east, East
Lafayette Street to the south, Chrysler Freeway to the west, and the Horatio Williams Center, which is on
Antietam Avenue to the north in Detroit’s Lafayette Park.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was previously utilized as commercial as well as industrial purposes; (b) it is located within the City of
Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property is determined to be a “facility”
as defined by Act 381.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include environmental assessment activities, due care
activities and additional response activities (department-specific activities), demolition and lead and
asbestos abatement, site preparation, infrastructure improvements, and development and preparation of a
brownfield plan and Act 381 work plan(s). The eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of
the development of the Property and will be financed solely by the Developer. The Authority is not
responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt. The eligible activities are estimated to
commence within 18 months of approval of the Plan and be completed within 3 years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Department Specific Activities
2. Demolition
3. Lead and Asbestos Activities
4. Site Preparation
5. Infrastructure Improvements
6. Brownfield Plan & Act 381 Work Plan
7. Cost Tracking Compliance
8. Contingency – (15%)
9. Interest (5% simple, after expiration of abatements)
*Total Reimbursement to Developer
10. Authority Administrative Costs
11. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
12. Local Site Remediation Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs
*Developer is only projecting to receive $26,356,887 in TIF Reimbursement

$4,397,460.00
$1,500,000.00
$515,000.00
$1,252,500.00
$11,865,296.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$2,929,538.00
$5,596,346.00
$28,116,141.00
$2,583,903.00
$1,472,147.00
$0.00
$32,172,191.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of Commercial
Rehabilitation Act (CRA) and Neighborhood Enterprise Zone (NEZ) Tax Abatements.
Attached for your review and approval is a resolution authorizing the Lafayette West Brownfield Plan for
submittal to the Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment within 30 days of their
receipt of the proposed Plan. In addition, it authorizes the President of the Detroit Economic Growth

 Corporation or any person designated by him, as a representative of the DBRA, to conduct a public hearing
in the area to which the Proposed Plan applies within the next 30 days. This public hearing may be held
jointly with any public hearing conducted by the Community Advisory Committee.
DBRA-CAC Letter of Recommendation
The DBRA-CAC recommended approval of the Plan at the August 8, 2018 CAC meeting. Attached was the
DBRA-CAC’s letter of recommendation for the DBRA Board’s consideration.
Public Comments
The DBRA public hearing for the Plan was held on Wednesday, August 15, 2018 at 5:30 pm at the Horatio
Williams Foundation located at 1010 Antietam Ave. in Detroit, Michigan. The results of the DBRA public
hearing were attached.
Mr. Walters stated that he has attended the Community Benefits Ordinance meetings for the proposed
Project and that the meetings have gone well, the community is very engaged, and the Developer has been
very cooperative.
Attached for Board review and approval was a resolution approving the Brownfield Plan for the Lafayette
West Redevelopment Project and its submittal to Detroit City Council.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Lafayette West Brownfield Plan and its submittal to the Detroit
City Council as presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Mays, seconded by Ms. Wilkins, DBRA Resolution Code 18-08-259-02 was
unanimously approved.
State Fair Grounds Environmental Contract
Mr. Robertson presented the Environmental Site Assessment and Survey Services Contract for the
Michigan State Fair Grounds site (the “Site”)
On June 19, 2018 the DBRA solicited the submission of competitive proposals from experienced and wellqualified professional firms for the provision of the Site Assessment Services associated with the DBRA’s
Pre-development Site Preparation of the State Fair Grounds Request for Proposals (the “RFP”). The
respondents to the RFP submitted Proposals, which were reviewed by DBRA staff and Building and Safety
Engineering Department to determine the most responsive firm to provide a future cost proposal for the
design and engineering related activities as described in the scope of work.
The key details of the scope of work are as follows:
Project Scope:
•
Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
•
Phase II Environmental Site Assessment
•
Baseline Environmental Assessment and Due Care Plan
•
ALTA Survey
•
Ground Penetrating Radar Scan
•
Gridding sampling, testing & characterizing of native ground soils for contaminants
•
Hazardous material survey of all non-historic and historic existing facilities
The DBRA received nine (9) responses to the RFP:
August Mack (Detroit), SME (Detroit), ATC (Novi), AKT (Detroit), TEC (Detroit) Mannik Smith Group
(Detroit), DLZ (Detroit), ASTI (Detroit), ETC (Romulus)
The DBRA staff reviewed the proposals and determined that the proposal from DLZ to be most responsive.
DLZ is a Detroit based contractor with experience in performing all facets of Site Assessment services as
described in the scope of work. DLZ proposed a not to exceed amount of Two Hundred Eighty-Five
Thousand Eight Hundred Ninety-Five and 00/100 ($285,895.00) Dollars.

 Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Environmental Site Assessment and Survey Services
Contract as presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Wilkins, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 18-08-258-02 was
approved.
Pullman Parc Grant Agreement
Mr. Vosburg presented the MDEQ Grant Agreement for Pullman Parc.
The Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority has been approved for a grant in the amount of One Million
and 00/100 Dollars ($1,000,000.00) (the “Grant”) from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
(“MDEQ”), Remediation and Redevelopment Division in connection with its Brownfield Redevelopment
Program.
The Grant shall be utilized for the payment of certain activities performed by, or on behalf of, Lafayette Park
Landowner LLC (collectively, the “Developer”) in connection with the project located at 1100 St. Aubin
Street, Detroit, MI 48207 (the “Pullman Parc Project”), just north of Lafayette Street in the Lafayette Park
neighborhood on Detroit’s eastside, at the site of the former Friends School of Detroit. The site has
significant environmental remediation that needs to occur due to former industrial uses dating to the 19 th
century on the site which include railroad manufacturing and maintenance facilities as well as truck repair,
machine shops and fuel storage. Uncontrolled fill related to the demolition of former structures on the site
is also present.
The Developers are proposing the Pullman Parc Project which will entail 140-150 new construction
apartments and 60-80 new construction for-sale condominiums on the approximately 4-acre site. 20% of
the apartments will be affordable to those at 80% of the Area Median Income (the “AMI”). The current
school building will be demolished. Construction is proposed to start Summer 2018 with project completion
in mid-2020. The Developers have developed a scope and budget of $2.125 million for environmental
cleanup and is requesting a $1 million grant towards cleanup activities. The Developers also intend to
pursue PA 210 and NEZ tax abatements. Provided that the environmental cleanup costs remain close to
the current scope and budget, the Developers are committed to using the Grant in lieu of Brownfield TIF
funds.
The Grant for the Pullman Parc Project is subject to the Developer’s agreement to the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

The provision of Grant funds for the Pullman Parc Project shall be subject to the terms and
conditions of the contract between the DBRA and the MDEQ (“Contract”).
Grant funds shall only be utilized for the activities specified in Appendix A of the Contract and
such other activities approved in advance by MDEQ under the Contract.
The Developer shall complete the Project within the time period allowed under the Contract
and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Contract.
Except for Section IV of the Contract, the Developer shall be subject to, and obligated to comply
with, the same requirements of the “Grantee”, as described in the Contract.
Grant administration shall be the sole responsibility of the DBRA.
The Developer shall maintain sufficient records to show and account for the uses of Grant
funds.
The Developer shall allow DBRA reasonable access to records to verify Grant expenditures
and activities.
The Developer shall repay to the DBRA any portion of the Grant funds not used for the payment
of authorized activities as described in the Contract.
The Developer shall refrain from using the Grant Funds for any purpose prohibited by law.
The Developer shall comply with reasonable requests for information from DBRA about Project
progress and activities.

 Grant funds will be disbursed directly to the Developer on a reimbursement basis only and the amount of
funds disbursed will in no event exceed the Grant amount. The Developers may submit a request for Grant
funds, accompanied with supporting receipts, lien waivers and such other documentation reasonably
required by DBRA to substantiate such costs, (collectively, the “Reimbursement Request”) to the DBRA on
no more than a quarterly basis per year.
The DBRA will be allowed to take up to a 3% administrative fee to cover DBRA administrative costs as well
as the costs of a contractual environmental oversight professional that will work on behalf of the DBRA.
Ms. Mays asked if the DBRA will receive the 3% administrative fee. Mr. Vosburg confirmed that the DBRA
will receive the 3% administrative fee.
Attached for Board review and approval was a resolution approving the MDEQ Grant Agreement for
Pullman Parc.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the MDEQ Grant Agreement for Pullman Parc as presented. The
Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Wilkins, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 18-08-261-01 was
approved.
Eastern Market Gateway
Mr. Vosburg presented the Brownfield Plan for the Eastern Market Gateway Redevelopment Project.
Ms. Mays disclosed to the DBRA Board her position as President and CEO of Develop Detroit and stated
that she will be abstaining from the vote for the Brownfield Plan for the Eastern Market Gateway
Redevelopment.
Project Introduction
Dev Detroit 1346 Gratiot LLC, an affiliate of Develop Detroit and Town Partners, is the project developer
(the “Developer”) for the Plan which entails the construction of approximately 200 residential units, with a
minimum of 20% of those units priced to meet affordable unit requirements for 80% of the Area Median
Income. Retail and commercial spaces will include a minimum of 20,000 square feet, inclusive of live/work
spaces as well as anticipated restaurant/bar uses and additional tenants, which will be a mix of new
construction and the rehabilitation of existing structures. A parking structure will be constructed in the
central portion of the property with a minimum of 200 parking stalls, both structured and surface to
accommodate the development. The Developer will create greenspace as well as a piazza on the western
portion of the Property, creating a gathering space within the district.
The total investment is estimated to be $70 million. The Developer is requesting $16,531,896.00 in TIF
reimbursement.
There will be 70 temporary construction jobs and 40 FTE jobs. The 70 temporary jobs are expected to be
created over a 2-year period once construction begins. The FTE jobs will be associated with the commercial
and retail aspects of the development.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) consists of twenty-one (21) parcels, which will be combined into one
parcel prior to City Council approval of the Plan: bounded loosely by Gratiot Avenue to the north, Russell
Street to the east, Maple Street to the south, and Rivard Street to the west and includes the rights-of-way
in Detroit’s Eastern Market neighborhood.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was previously utilized or is currently utilized for a commercial and industrial use; (b) it is located within the

 City of Detroit, a qualified local governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property is determined to be
a “facility.”
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Section 2 of Act 381, because they include Pre-Approved Activities, Department Specific
Activities (such as environmental remediation and abatement), Demolition Activities, Asbestos and Lead
Abatement, Infrastructure Improvements, Site Preparation Activities, and Preparation and Implementation
of a Brownfield Plan/Act 381 Work Plan. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of
the development of the Property and will be financed solely by the Developer. The Authority is not
responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt. Construction is anticipated to begin in
the spring of 2019 and eligible activities are slated to be completed within 24 months.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.
COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
1. Environmental Investigation and BEA
2. Demolition
3. Lead and Asbestos Activities
4. Site Preparation
5. Infrastructure Improvements
6. Brownfield Plan & Act 381 Work Plan
7. Department Specific Activities
8. Contingency – (15%)
*Total Reimbursement to Developer
9. Authority Administrative Costs
10. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
11. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
TOTAL Estimated Costs

$80,000.00
$300,000.00
$110,000.00
$2,183,913.00
$11,020,160.00
$60,000.00
$639,750.00
$2,138,073.00
$16,531,896.00
$2,760,691.00
$1,107,017.00
$110,487.00
$20,510,091.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking additional incentives, which will include local and/or state approval of Public Act
210 Tax Abatement, Michigan Community Revitalization Program funds, Project Based Vouchers (PBV),
Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC), and HOME funds.
Ms. McClain asked if “with a minimum of 20% of those units priced to meet affordable unit requirements for
80% of the Area Median Income” in the memorandum for the proposed Project meant the same as saying
that 20% of the residential units will be affordable housing. Mr. Walters confirmed that is the intent of the
statement in the memorandum for the proposed Project.
Ms. Wilkins asked about the exact location of the Property. Mr. Walters showed the DBRA Board members
where the Property is on a map and pointed out other businesses in close proximity to the Property.
Attached for Board review and approval was a resolution transmitting the Eastern Market Gateway
Redevelopment Plan to the Community Advisory Committee and authorizing a public hearing in the project
location.

 Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the referral of the Eastern Market Gateway Brownfield Plan and
its submittal to the DBRA-CAC as presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Wilkins, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 18-08-260-01 was
approved. Ms. Mays abstained.
Joe Louis Arena Reimbursement Agreement
Mr. Vosburg presented the proposed Reimbursement Agreement for the Joe Louis Arena Brownfield Plan.
Project Introduction
In connection with the development of the property commonly known as the “Little Caesars Arena”, an
agreement was reached by the applicable parties to demolish the JLA once the Little Caesars Arena was
completed and ready for use. As of the date of this Plan, the Little Caesars Arena has been completed and
the Detroit Red Wings have vacated the JLA and relocated to the Little Caesars Arena.
The primary purpose of this Plan is to facilitate the demolition of the JLA and to prepare the Property for a
future mixed-use development, which may include residential, commercial, and/or retail space. For the
purposes of this Plan, the use of the term “Developer” shall refer to the City of Detroit. The City of Detroit is
the owner of Joe Louis Arena and the Detroit Building Authority will oversee demolition.
Total TIF reimbursement amount for the demolition and related eligible activities under this Plan is
$5,561,009.
Property Subject to the Plan
The eligible property (the “Property”) consists of six (6) parcels located at 27 Washington Boulevard. The
common address of the JLA is also known as “600 Civic Center Drive.” 25 Washington Boulevard, 29
Washington Boulevard, 31 Washington Boulevard, and 33 Washington Boulevard are properties that are
adjacent and continuous to 27 Washington Boulevard. 501 Third is also adjacent to 27 Washington
Boulevard and is the location of the Detroit People Mover – Joe Louis Arena Station Stop. The Property is
located adjacent to the Central Business District and is generally bounded by Jefferson Street to the north,
Atwater Street to the east, Detroit River to the south and Cobo Convention Center to the west.
Basis of Eligibility
The Property is considered “eligible property” as defined by Act 381, Section 2 because (a) the Property
was previously utilized for a public purpose; (b) it is located within the City of Detroit, a qualified local
governmental unit under Act 381; and (c) the Property is determined to be a functionally obsolete or
adjacent and contiguous as defined by Act 381.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible activities”
as defined by Sec 2 of Act 381, because they include environmental assessment activities, demolition and
abatement and brownfield plan and work plan preparation and brownfield plan implementation. The eligible
activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed
solely by the Developer. The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no
debt. The eligible activities are estimated to begin within eighteen months and be completed within three
(3) years.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developer desires to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the eligible
activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a Reimbursement
Agreement with the DBRA.

 COSTS TO BE REIMBURSED WITH TIF
Description of Eligible Activities
1. ALTA Survey
2. Environmental Assessment Activities
3. Engineering Services: Demo Design
4. Abatement and Demolition
5. 15% Contingency
6. Brownfield and Work Plan Preparation
7. Brownfield Plan Implementation
Subtotal Site Eligible Activities
8. DBRA Administrative Costs
9. Local Brownfield Revolving Fund
10. State Brownfield Redevelopment Fund
Total Estimated Cost to be Funded Through TIF

Estimated Cost
$ 18,200.00
$375,000.00
$790,286.00
$3,600,000.00
$717,523.00
$30,000.00
$30,000.00
$5,561,009.00
$1,142,079.00
$290,911.00
$649,863.00
$7,643,862.00

The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for reimbursement from
tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by the terms of the
Reimbursement Agreement.
Other Incentives
The Developer is seeking a loan through the Michigan Strategic Fund’s Community Revitalization Program.
Mr. Vosburg stated that there were some changes made to the Reimbursement Agreement through the
negotiation process with the City of Detroit. Ms. Navin added that the changes to the Reimbursement
Agreement include changing the Insurance provision because the City of Detroit is self-insured, changes
to the Indemnification provision because the City of Detroit is not legally able to have indemnification
obligations and subsequent changes to the affirmative covenants.
Attached for Board review and approval was a resolution approving the Reimbursement Agreement for the
Joe Louis Arena Brownfield Redevelopment Plan.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Reimbursement Agreement for the Joe Louis Arena
Brownfield Redevelopment Plan. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Mays, seconded by Ms. Wilkins, DBRA Resolution Code 18-08-256-03 was
unanimously approved. Mr. Walters abstained.
ADMINISTRATIVE
None.
OTHER
Mr. Walters introduced Mr. Juan Gonzalez as the newest member of the DBRA Board.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None.
ADJOURNMENT
Citing no further business, Mr. Walters called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.
On a motion by Ms. Wilkins, seconded by Ms. McClain the meeting was unanimously adjourned at
4:29 PM.

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839
CODE DBRA 18-08-02-239
APPROVAL OF MINUTES AUGUST 8, 2018
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the regular meeting of August 8, 2018 are hereby approved and
all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such minutes, are hereby in all
respects ratified and approved as actions of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.

August 22, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

DBRA 18-08-03-178
ACCEPTANCE OF TREASURER’S REPORT FOR JULY 2018
RESOLVED, that the Treasurer’s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the period July 1
through July 31, 2018, as presented at this meeting is hereby in all respects accepted as actions of the
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.

August 22, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839
CODE DBRA 18-08-259-02
LAFAYETTE WEST BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield
Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Detroit (the “City Council”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed
areas in the City of Detroit; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA, the
DBRA has submitted a proposed brownfield plan for the Lafayette West Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”)
to the Community Advisory Committee for its consideration and comment and has solicited comments by
the public by publication of notice stating that the proposed Plan has been submitted to the Community
Advisory Committee and by conducting a public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan applies;
and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and approved
a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan by the DBRA and the City Council as
presented by the DBRA; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the DBRA has
considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to request that City Council
call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the proposed Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the adoption of the brownfield
plan for the Lafayette West Redevelopment Project is in keeping with the purposes of Act 381 and
recommends submittal of the Plan to City Council for approval.
2.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA has determined that the Plan constitutes a “Qualifying
Downtown Brownfield Project” under that certain Interlocal Agreement by and between the DBRA and the
City of Detroit Downtown Development Authority.
2.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA approves the Plan substantially in the form attached
hereto and on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.
3.
Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified copy of
this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that the City Council call a public
hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the Plan in accordance with
Act 381.

 4.
That any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or any two
of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all
documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or appropriate to implement
the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.
5.
That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA, in the
name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts
would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution
of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
6.
All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this
resolution are rescinded.
August 22, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 18-01-254-02
CONTRACT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL DUE DILLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AND SURVEY WORK ON
BEHALF OF THE CITY OF DETROIT AT THE STATE FAIR GROUNDS
WHEREAS, pursuant to Act 381 of 1996, as amended, the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has the power to perform due diligence activities on
behalf of the City of Detroit in furtherance of the purposes of revitalizing environmentally distressed areas;
and
WHEREAS, in connection with the Purchase Agreement for the State Fair Grounds Site (the “Site”)
between the City of Detroit and the State of Michigan Land Bank Authority, the DBRA has agreed to
evaluate the site on behalf of the City of Detroit for environmental and survey due diligence; and
WHEREAS, on June 19, 2018, the DBRA solicited the submission of competitive proposals from
experienced and well-qualified professional firms for the provision of the Site Assessment and Survey
Services associated with the DBRA’s Pre-development Site Preparation of the Property via a Request for
Proposals (RFP); and
WHEREAS, the DBRA has reviewed staff’s recommendation to enter into a contract with DLZ to
perform professional services outlining in the Request for Proposal for an amount not to exceed Two
Hundred Eighty-Five Thousand Eight Hundred Ninety-Five and 00/100 ($285,895.00) Dollars and has
determined that such recommendation is appropriate and in the best interests of the DBRA.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the DBRA hereby authorizes the execution of a
contract with DLZ to perform professional services as outlined in the Request for Proposals: and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the DBRA authorizes DBRA staff to
negotiate on behalf of the DBRA to finalize the contract scope, cost, and timeline with a total contract
amount not to exceed Two Hundred Eighty-Five Thousand Eight Hundred Ninety-Five and 00/100
($285,895.00) Dollars; and.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents
of the DBRA or any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate
and execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized
agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the
foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such
acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and
ratified.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict
with the provisions of this resolution are rescinded.
August 22, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963 2940
Fax:
313 963 8839

CODE DBRA 18-08-261-01
APPROVAL OF PULLMAN PARC MDEQ BROWNFIELD GRANT AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, the DBRA was created pursuant to Act 381 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1996 (“Act
381”) for the purpose of facilitating the implementation of brownfield plans and promoting the revitalization,
redevelopment, and reuse of certain property, including, but not limited to, tax reverted, blighted or functionally
obsolete property within the City of Detroit; and
WHEREAS, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (the “MDEQ”) has approved a
Brownfield Grant & Loan Program (the “Grant”) grant to the DBRA for one million dollars (“$1,000,000”) for
the Pullman Parc development, as described in the Grant Contract; and
WHEREAS, Lafayette Park Landowner LLC (collectively, the “Developer”) will use the grant funds
on a reimbursement basis for eligible activities and costs for the Pullman Parc project as defined by a to be
approved Work Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of DBRA has determined that proposed grant application is
consistent with the powers of the DBRA, its statutory purpose, and its submission is supported by the
Brownfield Redevelopment Financing Act (Act 381 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1996, as amended).
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:
1. That Board of Directors of the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority do hereby
support and approve the Grant Agreement totaling one million-dollars ($1,000,000.00) to the
Developer for the MDEQ Brownfield Grant & Loan Program.
2. The DBRA is authorized to submit Work Plan(s) to the MDEQ for the Pullman Parc
development.
3. The DBRA is authorized to accept and utilize the Grant funds to reimburse the Developer for
eligible activities and costs.
4. That all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or Authorized Agent of the DBRA in the
name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions,
which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolution except that such acts were
taken prior to execution of these resolution, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and
ratified.
5. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this
resolution are rescinded.

August 22, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 18-08-260-01
EASTERN MARKET GATEWAY BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN – TRANSMITTAL OF
BROWNFIELD PLAN TO THE COMMUNITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996 (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City Council of the City of Detroit (the
“City”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of environmentally distressed areas in the City; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption by City
Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, under the resolution establishing the DBRA and the bylaws of the DBRA requires the
DBRA, prior to the approval of a brownfield plan, submit the proposed brownfield plan to the Community
Advisory Committee for consideration and comment and solicit comments by publication of notice that the
proposed brownfield plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a
public hearing in the area to which the proposed Plan applies.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
The City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority acknowledges receipt of the
proposed Brownfield Plan for the Eastern Market Gateway Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the
“Proposed Plan”) and authorizes and directs the Chairperson to cause the Proposed Plan to be transmitted
to the Community Advisory Committee for consideration and comment within 30 days of their receipt of the
Proposed Plan.
2.
The Board of Directors of the DBRA also acknowledges the disclosure made by DBRA
Board Member, Sonya Mays, in accordance with Section 3(2)(a)(ii) of 317 PA 1968, as amended, that as
CEO of Develop Detroit, Inc., managing member of Dev Detroit 1346 Gratiot LLC, she has a pecuniary
interest in this Proposed Plan and any subsequent Reimbursement Agreement that may be executed by
Dev Detroit 1346 Gratiot LLC. in connection with this Proposed Plan.
3.
The President of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation or any person designated by
him, as a representative of the DBRA, shall conduct a public hearing in the area to which the Proposed
Plan applies within the next 30 days. This public hearing may be held jointly with any public hearing
conducted by the Community Advisory Committee.
4.
The Chairperson is authorized and directed to cause there to be published notice that the
Proposed Plan has been submitted to the Community Advisory Committee and of the public hearing to be
held pursuant to this resolution.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or Authorized Agent
of the DBRA in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolution except that such acts were
taken prior to execution of these resolution, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
August 22, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839
CODE DBRA 18-08-256-03
JOE LOUIS ARENA BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN: REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT
WHEREAS, on June 27, 2018, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) Board
of Directors adopted a resolution recommending approval by the Detroit City Council of the Brownfield Plan
(the “Plan”) for a project captioned the Joe Louis Arena (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council approved the Plan on July 31, 2018; and
WHEREAS, a condition to reimbursing the developer for eligible activities under the Plan is that a
Reimbursement Agreement (the “Agreement”) be entered into between the DBRA and the City of Detroit
as developer of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Agreement has been drafted, approved as to form by DBRA legal counsel; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors desires to approve the Agreement, contingent upon Detroit City
Council approval, and authorize its execution and delivery on behalf of the DBRA upon Detroit City Council
approval;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the DBRA Board of Directors as follows:
1. The Agreement, in substantially the form attached to this Resolution as Exhibit A, is hereby
approved, with such necessary or desirable modifications additions, deletions or completions
as are approved by DBRA legal counsel and the Officers or designated Authorized Agents of
the DBRA executing the Agreement.
2. Any two Officers or designated Authorized Agents or one Officer and one designated
Authorized Agent of the DBRA are authorized and directed to execute and deliver the
Agreement.
3. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings in conflict herewith shall be and the
same hereby are repealed insofar as such conflict arises.
4. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon Detroit City Council approval of the Plan.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent
of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were
taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
August 22, 2018

 