City of Detroit

DBRA

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE
EASTWOOD SENIOR LEASING
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
Wednesday, January 3, 2018
Eastern Market – Shed 5
Russell Street at Allard
Detroit, MI 48207
5:30 PM
In attendance were:
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Nicholas Maloof (Associated Environmental Services)
Dan Carmody (Eastern Market)
Angela Scott (St. Paul AME Church)
Herman Brown (Eastern Market)
Mr. Vosburg called the public hearing to order at 5:40 PM.
Mr. Vosburg provided an overview of the Eastwood Senior Leasing Brownfield
Redevelopment Plan (the “Plan”) and Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
process. Mr. Maloof provided additional information regarding the Plan.
Ms. Scott asked about the environmental contamination conditions on the site. Ms. Scott
also asked about the houses located at the site. Mr. Maloof explained that the house
located on the site itself was beyond repair and would be demolished, however the home
located across the street has been deeded to Detroit Rescue Mission who will repair it.
Ms. Scott asked about the clientele for the skilled nursing facility. Mr. Maloof explained
that the clientele is expected to be Medicaid and Medicare patients, however private
payers are also welcome, and the facility was being built to service Detroiters. Another
member of the public, who did not sign in, also asked about the contamination on the site
and how it would be addressed. Mr. Maloof explained that some contaminated soil would
be removed off site. Any contaminated soil that could not be removed would have a barrier
installed to encapsulate the remaining contaminates and that ongoing monitoring would
be regularly completed by the owner and required in a deed restriction. The same member
of the public inquired about the type of facility that was going to be constructed. Mr. Maloof
explained that it was a skilled nursing facility to care for patients who need regular medical
attention. Mr. Maloof also explained that there would also be a rehabilitation component
at the facility.

 Three members of the public spoke in support of the Plan, there were no comments
received in opposition of the Plan.
Citing no further comments, Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 6:11 PM.

 