City of Detroit

DBRA

Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE
DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE
1475 EAST JEFFERSON
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
Thursday, January 4, 2018
The Rattlesnake Club
300 River Place Drive
Detroit, MI 48207
5:30 PM
In attendance were:
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Dennis Archer, Jr. (East Jefferson Development, Co.)
Chris Brouchert (Lormax Stern)
Mark J. Bennett
Mr. Vosburg called the public hearing to order at 5:35 PM.
Mr. Vosburg provided an overview of the 1475 East Jefferson Brownfield Redevelopment
Plan (the “Plan”) and Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority process. Mr. Archer
and Mr. Brouchert provided additional information regarding the Plan.
Mr. Bennett asked about the orientation of the development to Jefferson and Larned
streets and how automotive, pedestrian, customer and resident traffic would be
addressed. Mr. Brouchert stated that the apartment residents would primarily enter from
Larned where the underground parking garage as well as the apartment pedestrian
entrance will be located. Grocery store customers would primarily enter on Jefferson
where the ground level parking garage would be as well as the pedestrian entrance.
Pedestrians desiring to pass through the development would be able to do so via a
covered walkway running north/south and adjacent to the grocery store entrance.
Mr. Bennett asked about building materials, anticipated rents, and affordable units. Mr.
Brouchert stated that the building will be a mix of brick and a colored, panel system which
has been reviewed extensively by the City Planning & Development Dept. Market rate
rents are currently planned at $2.30 per s.f. but could adjust closer to project completion.
20% of the units will be affordable to 80% AMI to be in line with the City’s inclusive housing
ordinance.
Mr. Bennet asked about the size of the store, types of products to be sold, how late the
store would be open, and home delivery options for the adjacent Lafayette Park residents.

 Mr. Archer stated that the store would be approximately 40,000 s.f., equivalent to most
Kroger stores, and only sell food related items. Exact operating hours haven’t been set,
however they will be considerate of the dense surrounding residential neighborhood. The
Meijer stores in Detroit currently close at 11 PM and are not open 24 hours. Home delivery
options have not been determined, however Meijer currently has home delivery options at
many of its stores. A home delivery service would likely be well received by the
neighborhood.
One member of the public spoke in support of the Plan, there were no comments received
in opposition of the Plan.
Citing no further comments, Mr. Vosburg closed the public hearing at 6:00 PM.

 