DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
REGULAR BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JULY 25, 2018
4:00 PM
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

John George
Pamela McClain
Matthew Walters
Stephanie Washington
Maggie DeSantis
Ray Scott
Sonya Mays
Donele Wilkins

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:
OTHERS PRESENT:

Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Cora Capler (DEGC/DBRA)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC)
Elizabeth Brinson (DEGC)
Paul Kako (DEGC)
Eric Tuomey (DEGC)
Kirstie Hardy (AKT Peerless)
Oren Brandvain (Develop Detroit)
Sandra Stahl (DBRA-CAC)
Scott Brinkman (City of Detroit)

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

MINUTES OF THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY REGULAR MEETING
WEDNESDAY, JULY 25, 2018
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD SUITE 2200 DETROIT, MI – 4:00 PM
CALL TO ORDER
Chair Matthew Walters called the meeting to order at 4:10 PM.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the minutes of June 27, 2018 as presented. The Board
took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Mays, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 18-07-02237 was unanimously approved.
Treasurer’s Report
Ms. Brinson presented the June 2018 Treasurer’s report.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the June 2018 Treasurer’s Report as presented. The
Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. DeSantis, DBRA Resolution Code 18-0703-177 was unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
Michigan State Fair Grounds
Mr. Tuomey presented the proposed Funding Agreement to Perform Due Diligence Activities on
Behalf of the City of Detroit.
On July 24, 2018, Detroit City Council approved the City of Detroit (“City”) entering into a Purchase
Agreement with The State of Michigan Land Bank Authority (“MLBA”) and land sale to purchase
the Michigan State Fair Grounds (“MSFG”) subject to certain other terms and conditions. The
City Administration is asking the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) to assist
with the Purchase Agreement by performing due diligence activities on behalf of the City. In
consideration of such assistance, the City will approve a $500,000 Funding Agreement between
the City and the DBRA in advance of closing on the purchase for the MSFG to pay for the due
diligence activities that the DBRA will perform on behalf of the City for site.

 The City wishes to acquire the Property for certain public purposes and/or to market for sale for
development. Given the existing commercial uses of the adjacent sites, staff feel that this
Property presents a prime opportunity for the City to plan and implement a variety of projects on
a site that has sat vacant and underutilized for a number of years. The MSFG site consists of
142 acres within the general area between Woodward Avenue (West), Eight Mile Road (North),
the Grand Trunk Western Railroad (East), and State Fair Avenue (South). Currently, the Property
is within a B4 zoning district (General Business District) (Exhibit A).
Based on information in previous environmental studies, is likely that there will be some
environmental issues at the site. As a result, the closing of the MSFG acquisition is contingent
upon completion of due diligence activities. The due diligence activities may include: surveys,
environmental studies, and other recommended activities. The DBRA is being asked to complete
its work on behalf of the City in advance of the closing.
City and DEGC staff are confident that the environmental conditions and an economically feasible
cleanup plan can be created for the MSFG site. A viable reuse plan would result in a large site
for redevelopment in the City of Detroit. Since there are so few sites of this type available in the
City, a clean MSFG site would receive strong interest from a multitude of businesses seeking new
facilities in Southeast Michigan.
Providing due diligence activities on behalf of the City for the MSFG site is consistent with the
DBRA’s goals of revitalizing environmentally distressed areas and alleviating blight within the City
of Detroit, as well as consistent with the powers authorized by Act 381 of 1996, as amended.
Staff agrees that the DBRA is well positioned to assist the City with the due diligence activities,
as authorized by Act 381 of 1996, as amended, at the MSFG Site.
Ms. Navin stated that the City of Detroit will be providing $250,000 to the DBRA to be used for
the due diligence activities and that after the $250,000 has been expended, the DBRA will send
invoices to the City of Detroit and request the funds to pay the invoices for services completed by
contractors.
Mr. Tuomey added that the DBRA has already issued Requests for Proposals (RFPs) to potential
contractors to perform the due diligence activities.
Mr. Scott asked who will be reviewing the environmental review reports once they are completed.
Mr. Brinkman stated that the Planning and Development Department will be reviewing and signing
off on agreements and that the Building, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department will
be involved in the due diligence activities and will review completed reports.
Ms. DeSantis asked if the funding for the due diligence activities is going to come from the City of
Detroit General Fund. Mr. Brinkman stated that the cost of acquisition for MSFG is $4 million with
$3.5 million to be paid at closing, and the other $500,000 will be used to pay the DBRA for
performing the due diligence activities.
Ms. DeSantis asked why the procurement process is less onerous for the DBRA than it is for the
City of Detroit. Mr. Walters stated that the procurement process for the City of Detroit is very
bureaucratic.

 Ms. DeSantis asked what ground penetrating radar is and what it will be used for. Mr. Tuomey
stated that is will be used to identify if there are underground storage tanks at the site and that
450 soil borings will also be performed.
Ms. Wilkins asked what the historical uses were for the site and if there was ever manufacturing
on the site. Mr. Tuomey stated that he is not aware of any manufacturing having been performed
on the site. Mr. Brinkman added that the State of Michigan acquired the site in the 1920’s and the
land went to the Michigan Land Bank Fast Track Authority in 2012.
Ms. Wilkins asked what makes the City of Detroit believe that there are environmental issues on
the site. Mr. Brinkman stated that a Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment has been performed
on the site. Mr. Tuomey added that sixteen underground storage tanks have been identified on
the site, and the City of Detroit wants to be comprehensive in its analysis of the site.
Ms. McClain asked if Joe Dumars Fieldhouse was still located on the site. Mr. Tuomey stated that
there is an existing lease for Joe Dumars Fieldhouse on the site. Mr. Brinkman added that there
are currently three tenants on the site, Joe Dumars Fieldhouse, an affiliate of Chrysler, and a rail
line and that the City of Detroit will evaluate the lease terms for the existing tenants.
Ms. McClain asked if the City of Detroit will use eminent domain to vacate the existing tenants.
Mr. Tuomey stated that the City of Detroit will not use eminent domain and will have the ability to
terminate the existing leases.
Ms. DeSantis suggested that Joe Dumars Fieldhouse could move to Chandler Park on the east
side of the City of Detroit.
Mr. George asked how long the lease is for Joe Dumars Fieldhouse. Mr. Tuomey stated that the
lease terms are until 2024.
Mr. George asked if the City of Detroit has received any proposals for the site. Mr. Walters stated
that the City of Detroit has received proposals for the environmental reviews for the site.
Ms. DeSantis asked if there are any proposed uses for the site. Mr. Brinkman stated that a
proposed use for a portion of the site is a tow yard for the City of Detroit. Mr. Walters stated that
such a proposed use if not encouraged by the City of Detroit.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the acceptance of funding and Funding Agreement to
Perform Due Diligence Activities on Behalf of the City of Detroit as presented. The Board took the
following action:
On a motion by Mr. Scott, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code 18-07-25801 was approved.
Second Amended and Restated Brownfield Plan for Garfield Area Redevelopment
Ms. Kanalos presented the Second Amended and Restated Brownfield Plan for the Garfield Area
Redevelopment Project.
Project Introduction
This Plan is intended to replace the brownfield plan for the Garfield Area Redevelopment Project
that was approved on October 18, 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the "2006 Plan") and that was

 first amended and restated on November 1, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the “2011
Amendment”). Changes are noted within the individual project descriptions. The Plan includes
multiple projects, each to be developed by different developers (referred to generally throughout
this Plan as the “Developer”). The developers have agreed that each of the projects benefit the
others, and as such, agree to cooperate with one another to implement this Plan and any future
agreements to be executed pursuant to this Plan.
Develop Detroit Inc. and Preservation of Affordable Housing Inc. were selected by the City of
Detroit as the developers of four (4) City owned parcels that are part of the Plan. The second
(2nd) amendment and restatement of the Garfield Area Brownfield Plan is being requested to
include the new developers in the Brownfield Plan and to modify the following aspects of the 2011
Plan: scope of Project, Eligible Activities, TIF Table, and Eligible Investment that was included in
the original approvals.
In the 2006 Plan, the projects were as follows:
• Garfield Manor and York Apartments
• E. Forest Art Project
• Randora Apartments
• Parking Deck I
• Parking Deck II
In the 2011 Amendment, changes to the Plan included:
• Updating the TIF eligible public improvements
• Splitting the Garfield Manor and York Apartments development into two separate
projects
• Updating the status of the E. Forest Art Project
• Removing the eligible MBT investment in the Randora apartment project.
• Updating the plans for the Parking Deck I project
• Removing the eligible activities from Parking Deck II
• Adding 76 E. Forest
• Adding 92 E. Forest
In this 2nd Amendment & Restatement, proposed changes to the Plan include:
• Amending the project description to change what was known as the Parking Deck
I project to the Sugar Hill Redevelopment project.
• Amending and restating the eligible activities associated with the Sugar Hill
Redevelopment project
• Amending and restating the TIF Tables to add the Sugar Hill Redevelopment
project.
• Identifying investment in the Sugar Hill Redevelopment project as Eligible
Investment associated with a Michigan Business Tax (MBT) credit, which is to be
amended.
These changes are described in more detail in the individual project descriptions. Each Project
includes eligible activities and eligible properties and will request, has already requested, or has
already received a MBT credit.

 Total investment for the Sugar Hill Redevelopment Project is expected to be approximately
$34,600,000.00. The Developers are requesting $9,639,944.00 in TIF reimbursement under the
proposed Plan.
Property Subject to the Plan
The property comprising the eligible property consists of 20 parcels located within the Sugar Hill
Arts District. The parcels and all tangible personal property located thereon will comprise the
eligible property and is referred to herein as the “Property.” Parcel information for the Property is
outlined in the table below.

Address

Owner

Individual Project

43 Garfield*

Garfield Real Estate Properties,
LLC

59 Garfield*

Garfield Real Estate Properties,
LLC

52 E. Forest

E. Forest Art Project, LLC

E. Forest Art Project

66 E. Forest

E. Forest Art Project, LLC

E. Forest Art Project

71 Garfield

71 Garfield, LLC

Garfield Manor

71 Garfield

71. Garfield, LLC

Garfield Manor

71 Garfield

71 Garfield, LLC

Garfield Manor

74 Garfield

71 Garfield, LLC

York Apartments

76 E. Forest

76 E. Forest, LLC

76 E. Forest Commercial Rehab.

79 Garfield*

University Cultural Center
Association

80 Garfield

71 Garfield, LLC

York Apartments

81 Garfield

City of Detroit

Sugar Hill Redevelopment

86 E. Forest

Cathedral Church of St. Paul

92 E. Forest Commercial Rehab.

92 E. Forest

Cathedral Church of St. Paul

92 E. Forest Commercial Rehab.

92 Garfield*

J &ML Jones

95 Garfield

City of Detroit

Sugar Hill Redevelopment

106 E. Forest

Cathedral Church of St. Paul

92 E. Forest Commercial Rehab.

 Address

Owner

Individual Project

107 Garfield

City of Detroit

Sugar Hill Redevelopment

118 E. Forest

Cathedral Church of St. Paul

92 E. Forest Commercial Rehab.

119 Garfield

City of Detroit

Sugar Hill Redevelopment

*Indicates property that is part of this Plan and TIF district, but will not receive investment as part
of this Plan.
Tax Increment Revenues will be taken from each of the individual projects described below.
1. Garfield Manor (71 Garfield)
The Property comprising the eligible property consisted of three parcels which all share the
address 71 Garfield. Complete as of the writing of the 2011 Amendment, the property was
functionally obsolete and blighted and adjacent and contiguous. 71 Garfield, LLC was the project
developer. The Plan entailed the rehabilitation of a vacant apartment building for a mixed-use
commercial and residential development. Total project costs were $9,173,582.
2. York Apartments (74 and 80 Garfield)
The Property comprising the eligible property consists of two parcels: 74 and 80 Garfield, which
are both blighted vacant lots. Sugar Hill Residential, LLC, Sugar Hill Commercial, LLC, and 74
and 80 Garfield, LLC are the project developers. Due to catastrophic arson at the site, the project
has been revised to entail a new-construction mixed-use residential and commercial building on
the site. Total project costs are estimated at $7,406,588.
3. E. Forest Art Project (52 E. Forest and 66 E. Forest)
The Property comprising the eligible property consists of two parcels: 52 E. Forest and 66 E.
Forest. Complete as of the writing of the 2011 Amendment, both properties were functionally
obsolete and blighted. E. Forest Art Project, LLC was the project developer. The project includes
the rehabilitation of two buildings for commercial use as the N’Namdi Center for Contemporary
Art. The total square footage of the rehabilitation was 16,000. Total project costs were $4,388,200.
4. Sugar Hill Redevelopment (Formerly Parking Deck I) (81, 95, 107, and 119 Garfield)
The Property comprising the eligible property consists of four parcels: 81 Garfield, 95 Garfield,
107 Garfield, and 119 Garfield, all of which are city-owned tax-reverted, blighted lots. Develop
Detroit Inc. and Preservation of Affordable Housing, Inc. (POAH), or a related entity, is the project
developer. The project is the redevelopment of the vacant property and the construction of a
multi-story mixed-use development with ground floor commercial/retail space, an estimated 85
residential apartments, residential amenities, and integrated parking structure. Total project costs
are estimated at $34,600,000.
In addition, the Michigan Economic Development Corporation issued a pre-approval letter for a
Brownfield MBT credit for the Parking Deck I project in 2011. This MBT credit will be amended
in order to (a) add Develop Detroit Inc. and POAH, or a related entity, as a qualified taxpayer;
and (b) qualify eligible investment from the Sugar Hill Redevelopment project as eligible basis
for the MBT credit.
5. 76 E. Forest
The Property comprising the eligible property consists of one parcel at 76 E. Forest. The property
is functionally obsolete. Additionally, the property is adjacent and contiguous to 66 E. Forest

 (approved in the 2006 Plan as functionally obsolete and blighted.) 76 E. Forest, LLC is the project
developer. The project entailed the rehabilitation of a 6,000 square foot single family home for
commercial office use. Total project costs were estimated at $1,455,613.
6. 92 E. Forest
The Property comprising the eligible property consists of one parcel at 92 E. Forest. The property
is functionally obsolete. 92 E. Forest, LLC is the project developer. The project entails the
rehabilitation of a 12,000-square foot vacant church for commercial use. Total project costs are
estimated at $4,000,000.
Basis of Eligibility
The parcels that comprise the Eligible Property qualified as eligible properties in the 2006 Plan
and/or 2011 Amendment.
Eligible Activities and Projected Costs
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered “eligible
activities” as defined by Section 2 of Act 381 because they include department specific activities,
demolition, lead and asbestos abatement, site preparation, infrastructure improvements and the
development of a brownfield plan and/or work plan. The eligible activities and budgeted costs are
intended as part of the development of the Property and will be financed solely by the Developer.
The Authority is not responsible for any costs of eligible activities and will incur no debt.
Construction is completed or currently underway on particular projects included in the Plan.
Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the DBRA, all eligible activities shall commence within
eighteen months after the date the governing body approves this Plan and will be completed
within three (3) years after approval of the Michigan Strategic Fund work plan, if applicable, or
three (3) years after execution of the Reimbursement Agreement (as that term is defined below).
1. Garfield Manor (71 Garfield)
The "eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
"eligible activities" as defined by Section 2 of Act 381 because they include lead and asbestos
abatement, and demolition. A summary of the eligible activities and the estimated cost of
each activity are shown in the table below.
Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities
Description of Eligible Activity
Lead and asbestos abatement
Demolition
Total Eligible Activity Costs

Estimated Cost
25,000.00
50,000.00
75,000.00

The total Eligible Investment on the Eligible Property is estimated at $4,265,999.
2. York Apartments (74 and 80 Garfield):
The “eligible activities” that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
“eligible activities” as defined by Section 2 of Act 381 because they include demolition. A
summary of the eligible activities and the estimated cost is shown in the table below.

Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities
Description of Eligible Activity
Demolition

Estimated
Cost

65,000.0
0

 Total Eligible Activity Costs

65,000.00

The total Eligible Investment on the Eligible Property is estimated at $5,844,167.
3. East Forest Art Project
The "eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
"eligible activities" as defined by Section 2 of Act 381 because they include asbestos
abatement and interior demolition. A summary of the eligible activities and the estimated
cost of each activity are shown in the table below.
Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities
Description of Eligible Activity
Asbestos abatement and interior
Total
Eligible Activity Costs
demolition

Estimated Cost
25,000.00
25,000.00

It is currently anticipated construction will begin in the fall of 2006 and eligible activities will
be completed within twelve months.
Eligible activities and budgeted costs are intended as part of the development of the properly
and are to be financed solely by the developer. The DBRA is not responsible for any cost of
eligible activities and will incur no debt.
The total Eligible Investment on the Eligible Property is estimated to be $2,014,000.
4. Sugar Hill Redevelopment (Formerly Parking Deck I) (81, 95, 107 & 119 Garfield)
The "eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
"eligible activities" as defined by Section 2 of Act 381 because they include department
specific activities, site preparation activities, infrastructure improvement activities and the
preparation of a brownfield plan and Act 381 work plan. The “eligible activities” also include
contingency, brownfield TIF compliance and tracking activities, and interest on the balance
of unreimbursed eligible activity costs. A summary of the eligible activities and the estimated
cost of each activity are shown in the table below.

Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities
Description of Eligible Activity
Department specific activities
Site
preparation
improvement
Infrastructure
improvement activities
activities
Brownfield plan & Act 381 work plan
Brownfield TIF compliance
Contingency (15%)
Interest (5%, simple)
Total Eligible Activity Costs

Estimated Cost
28,500
410,000
6,996,930
$30,000
$26,000
$1,114,115
$1,400,839
$10,006,384

The total Brownfield MBT credit Eligible Investment on the Eligible Property is estimated to be
$12,484,714.

 5. 76 E. Forest
The "eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
"eligible activities" as defined by Section 2 of Act 381, because they include interior demolition
and asbestos abatement.
Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities
Description of Eligible Activity
Asbestos abatement
Demolition
Total Eligible Activity Costs

Estimated Cost
50,000.00
15,000.00
65,000.00

The total Eligible Investment on the Eligible Property is estimated at $861,185.
6. 92 E. Forest
The "eligible activities" that are intended to be carried out at the Property are considered
"eligible activities" as defined by Section 2 of Act 381, because they include interior demolition.

Estimated Cost of Eligible Activities
Description of Eligible Activitv
Demolition
Total Eligible Activity Costs

Estimated Cost
50,000.00
50,000.00

The Eligible Investment on the Eligible Property is estimated at $3,000,000.
The actual cost of those eligible activities encompassed by this Plan that will qualify for
reimbursement from tax increment revenues of the DBRA from the Property shall be governed by
the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement.
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Capture
The Developers desire to be reimbursed for the costs of eligible activities. Tax increment revenue
generated by the Property will be captured by the DBRA and used to reimburse the cost of the
eligible activities completed on the Property after approval of this Plan pursuant to the terms of a
Reimbursement Agreement with the DBRA.
Other Development Incentives
The Developers of this Plan will seek additional support through the transfer of the existing
Michigan Business Tax Credit for the property as well as a Commercial Rehabilitation Act
Abatement (PA 210).
DBRA-CAC Letter of Recommendation
The DBRA-CAC recommended approval of the Plan at the July 11, 2018 CAC meeting. Attached
is the DBRA-CAC’s letter of recommendation for the DBRA Board’s consideration.

 Public Comments
The DBRA public hearing for the Plan was held on Thursday, July 19, 2018 at 6:00 pm at the
Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit located at 4454 Woodward Ave. in Detroit, Michigan. The
results of the DBRA public hearing are attached.
Mr. Walters called for a motion for a roll call vote approving the Second Amended and Restated
Brownfield Plan for the Garfield Area and its submittal to the Detroit City Council as presented.
The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. Wilkins, the Board took the following action:
Mr. Scott, Ms. Washington, Mr. George, Ms. McClain, Ms. Wilkins, Ms. DeSantis, and Mr.
Walters voted to approve the resolution. Ms. Mays abstained. No members present
opposed the resolution. DBRA Resolution Code 18-07-116-09 was approved.
ADMINISTRATIVE:
None.
OTHER
Ms. Kanalos provided an update to the DBRA Board regarding the request for tablets for use
during DBRA Board meetings in lieu of paper copies of the board materials. Ms. Kanalos stated
that DEGC is gathering information about various board book portals and tablet options.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None.
ADJOURNMENT
Citing no further business, Mr. Walters called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.
On a motion by Ms. McClain, seconded by Ms. Wilkins the meeting was unanimously
adjourned at 4:37 PM.

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 18-07-02-237
APPROVAL OF MINUTES JULY 11, 2018
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the regular meeting of July 11, 2018 are hereby approved
and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such minutes, are
hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority.

July 25, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

DBRA 18-07-03-177
ACCEPTANCE OF TREASURER’S REPORT FOR JUNE 2018
RESOLVED, that the Treasurer’s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the period
June 1 through June 30, 2018, as presented at this meeting is hereby in all respects accepted as
actions of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.

July 25, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 18-07-258-01
ACCEPTANCE OF FUNDING AND AGREEMENT TO PERFORM DUE DILLIGENCE
ACTIVITIES ON BEHALF OF THE CITY OF DETROIT AT THE MICHIGAN STATE FAIR
GROUNDS SITE
WHEREAS, pursuant to Act 381 of 1996, as amended, the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has the power to perform due diligence
activities on behalf of the City of Detroit (the “City”) in furtherance of the purposes of revitalizing
environmentally distressed areas; and
WHEREAS, the City is expected to enter into a Purchase Agreement with the State of
Michigan Land Bank Authority (“MLBA”) to purchase the former Michigan State Fair Grounds (the
“MSFG”) property, with a commonly known address of 20110 Woodward Avenue (the “Property”);
and
WHEREAS, the City is asking the DBRA to assist with such Purchase Agreement by
performing due diligence activities on behalf of the City; and
WHEREAS, the DBRA Board has determined that performing due diligence activities at
the Property will be consistent with the purposes for which the DBRA was created and in
furtherance of its statutorily defined missions; and
WHEREAS, the DBRA accepts up to five-hundred thousand dollars (“$500,000.00”) from
the City for the purpose of performing due diligence activities at the Property; and
WHEREAS, the DBRA agrees to perform due diligence activities at the Property on behalf
of the City; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to its statutorily authorized powers, the DBRA has the power to
perform due diligence activities, accept funds, expend funds, and take the other steps
contemplated by this Resolution.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the DBRA
authorizes the acceptance of up funds, as applicable, for the payment of due diligence activities
and agrees to perform due diligence activities on behalf of the City for the Property; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized
Agents of the DBRA or any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the
authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other
actions, necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on
behalf of the DBRA.

 BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are
hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they
conflict with the provisions of this resolution are rescinded.

July 25, 2018

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 18-07-116-09
GARFIELD AREA SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT
PLAN
WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended, (“Act 381”), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”) has been established by resolution of the City
Council of the City of Detroit (the “City Council”) for the purpose of promoting the revitalization of
environmentally distressed areas in the City of Detroit; and
WHEREAS, under Act 381 the DBRA is authorized to develop and propose for adoption
by City Council a brownfield plan for one or more parcels of eligible property; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the policies, procedures and bylaws governing the DBRA,
the DBRA has submitted a proposed brownfield plan for the Second Amended and Restated
Brownfield Plan for the Garfield Area Development Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”) to the
Community Advisory Committee for its consideration and comment and has solicited comments
from the public by publication of notice stating that the proposed Plan has been submitted to the
Community Advisory Committee and by conducting a public hearing in the area to which the
proposed Plan applies; and
WHEREAS, the Community Advisory Committee has considered the proposed Plan and
approved a resolution recommending the approval of the proposed Plan by the DBRA and the
City Council as presented by the DBRA; and
WHEREAS, during the public meeting held by the DBRA Board of Directors on July 11,
2018, in accordance with Section 2(a)(ii) of 317 PA 1968, as amended, DBRA Board Member,
Sonya Mays, as the CEO of Develop Detroit, Inc. disclosed to the DBRA Board of Directors that
Develop Detroit, Inc. has a pecuniary interest in the proposed Plan and any subsequent
Reimbursement Agreement that may be executed by Develop Detroit, Inc. in connection with the
Plan; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of Act 381, the Board of Directors of the
DBRA has considered the proposed Plan and desires to approve the proposed Plan and to
request that City Council call a public hearing to consider and adopt a resolution approving the
proposed Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:
1.
Two thirds (2/3) of the full membership of the Board of Directors of the DBRA,
without the vote of Sonya Mays, has determined that the adoption of the brownfield plan for the
Second Amended and Restated Brownfield Plan for the Garfield Area Redevelopment

 Project is in keeping with the purposes of Act 381 and recommends submittal of the Plan to City
Council for approval.
2.
Two thirds (2/3) of the full membership of the Board of Directors of the DBRA,
without the vote of Sonya Mays, approves the Plan substantially in the form attached hereto. A
copy of the Plan is on file with the Secretary of the DBRA.
3.
Any Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized and directed to submit a certified
copy of this Resolution and the Plan to the City Clerk, together with a request that City Council
call a public hearing concerning the Plan and to take all other actions required to approve the
Plan in accordance with Act 381.
4.
That any one of the officers and any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA or
any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and
execute all documents, contracts, or other papers, and take such other actions, necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.
5.
That all of the acts and transactions of any officer or authorized agent of the DBRA,
in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing
resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such
acts were taken prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed,
approved and ratified.
6.
All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they conflict with the provisions
of this resolution are rescinded.

July 25, 2018

 