RESOLUTION SBD #19?20

0 pace

550 West Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, Illinois 60005-4412 (847) 364-8130 PaceBus.com

Pace, the Suburban Bus Division of the Regional Transportation Authority
550 West Algonquin Road
Arlington Heights, Illinois
Open Session of the Board of Directors
February 13, 2019

The Board of Directors of Pace, the Suburban Bus Division of the Regional Transportation
Authority, met in public session on Wednesday, February 13, 2019 at 4:30 pm. at Pace corporate
headquarters, 550 West Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, Illinois, pursuant to notice.

Chairman Kwasneski led the assembly in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Chairman Kwasneski called the meeting to order at 4:30 pm.

Roll Call

Directors physically present: Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley,
Soto, and Chairman Kwasneski.

Director Wells was absent.

Director Soto moved, and Director Marcucci seconded a motion to allow Director Tamley to
attend via teleconference. The motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Director Tamley joined the meeting via teleconference immediately following the vote.

SBD #19-11 Resolution approving the minutes of the Open Session meeting of January 16,
2019.

Director Soto moved, and Director Schielke seconded a motion to approve the minutes of the
Open Session meeting of January 16, 2019. The motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Public Comment

Garland complimented Sally Williams for assisting him and his wife with an early
pickup from Access Living to avoid staying very late and before snow began falling. Garland
commented that when he waits for the ?xed route buses, he wears a safety reflector. Garland

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Richard A. Kwasneski, Chairman
Christopher S. Canning Terrance M. Carr Roger C. Claar David B. Guerin Kyle R. Hastings Al Larson
Thomas D. Marcucci Jeffery D. Schielke Aaron T. Shepley Linda Soto Karen Tamley Terry R. Wells
interim Executive Director
Rocky Donahue

February 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 2

would like to see Pace give safety re?ectors to their ?xed bus operators as the ADA drivers have
them. Garland reminded the Board that his birthday is February 23?.

Heather complimented the drivers, especially the paratransit drivers, for their service
during the last couple of weeks during the very cold weather. Heather also thanked a CDT driver
and a North Cook driver for picking her up early at Access Living. She expressed thanks to Pace
for their service and safety.

Chairman Kwasneski echoed these sentiments on his behalf, and on the behalf of the Board, to
Melinda Metzger and all of her staff, drivers, and all that put in extra time during the inclement
weather the past couple of weeks. Not one negative word was heard on the news about Pace
service. Pace assisted Metra riders with service when their electric line was down.

Report of Chairman

Chairman Kwasneski, Rocky Donahue and Maggie Skogsbakken accepted the Chicago Area
Clean Fuels Champion Award for 2018. The event was held at the Chicago Auto Show. Previous
winners were CMAP, Ozinga, number of companies with major ?eets of CNG vehicles.

Chairman Kwasneski, Director Schielke, and Rocky Donahue met with the City of Aurora
Mayor and his staff. Aurora wants to continue service and is looking at some opportunities for
different services to meet more of their needs.

Pace continues outreach on the capital bill. Please speak with your legislators. He and Rocky will
attend the Governor?s Budget Address next week in Spring?eld. Infrastructure funding is
necessary as evidenced by the recent Lake Shore Drive bridge cracking incident, as well as other
infrastructures in a similar condition. Rocky is working with the RTA and other transit agencies
to put on an event in Spring?eld this spring to help convey transit?s needs to be included into a
capital bill.

Directors? Reports

Director Canning expressed his thanks to staff for extra efforts during the recent inclement
weather. The only press Pace received was positive. Director Canning was able to see Pace
drivers? skill in navigating around deep water after a 12?inch water main broke.

Director Carr attended a legislative breakfast for the West Central Municipal Conference.
Congressman Quigley, the State Treasurer and about a dozen State Senators and legislators were
there. About 75 percent of the discussions was the capital spending bill. Director Carr thought it
sounded encouraging, much of the talk was about transportation. Director Carr expressed his
thanks to Melinda and her staff for extra efforts and communications to the Directors during the
recent inclement weather. The updates were very much appreciated.

Director Claar attended a meeting this week regarding the route changes on 1-55. Director Claar
expressed his thanks to staff for extra efforts during the recent inclement weather.

 

February 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 3

Director Guerin expressed his thanks to staff for extra efforts during the recent inclement
weather.

Director Marcucci expressed his thanks to staff, the drivers, garages, and of?ce staff, for extra
efforts during the recent inclement weather. He thanked Melinda Metzger and her staff for their
excellent communications to the Board during the storm and extreme cold. Director Marcucci
met with Doug Sullivan, Department Manager, Marketing, the in?house marketing team, and
some of Pace?s ad agency consultants. The marketing program is exciting, focusing on all Pace
programs, including Pulse.

Director Schielke, as a realtor for Baird Warner in Fox Valley, had one of the realtors in his
of?ce thank him in his capacity as a Pace Board member. She had just sold a house in Gilberts,
Illinois and the principal reason the house was purchased was due to the Bus on Shoulder
program on 1-90. Both new owners of the home are using the route and are very happy with it.

Director Schielke met with the City of Aurora with the Chairman and Rocky. The City of Aurora
is the second largest city in Illinois in population and the city limits are in four different counties:
Kane, DuPage, Will and Kendall. Three of those counties are in the service area. The
mayor and vice-mayor are extremely impressed that both the Chairman and Pace?s Interim
Executive Director, Rocky Donahue, came out to Aurora for a one-on-one meeting to talk about
such subjects as routing the VA Visiting Nurses Association?s of?ce to be on a Pace bus route.
They expressed their thanks for Pace?s personal attention.

Director Shepley expressed his thanks to staff for extra efforts during the recent inclement
weather. Director Shepley thanked the members of their board for their indulgence in his recent
attendance to the board meetings via telephone. Director Shepley changed employment and now
works in Chicago making it more dif?cult to attend in person.

Director Soto expressed her thanks to Melinda Metzger and her staff for their hard work and
communications during the recent inclement weather. Mayor Cunningham, City of Waukegan,
met with his staff and ?re department making preparations for the weather and reached out to
Director Soto asking for Pace?s help and support in providing warming buses and buses to assist
for special circumstances such as relocating individuals without heat, etc. Melinda Metzger?s
staff had already been in contact with the City and had things well in hand. Pace also offered
assistance to the City of North Chicago and a few other communities.

Director Soto and Tim Dilsaver attended the Lake County Council of Mayors meeting. Rocky
Donahue also attended and spoke with the counsel of Mayors about Pace and its services. They
were appreciative of his efforts.

Director Tamley expressed her thanks to staff for the excellent communications to the Board,
especially related to Paratransit, during the storm and extreme cold. Director Tamley attended
the RTA ADA Coordinating meeting via phone, which is an RTA meeting held twice a year with

 

February 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 4

the goal to get all three service boards together in one room to talk about relevant ADA issues,
whether it be ?xed route, paratransit, rail accessibility, etc.

Report of Interim Executive Director

Rocky Donahue expressed his thanks to staff for extra efforts during the recent inclement
weather with a special thanks to Melinda Metzger and her staff. Pace received a letter from Jim
Derwinski, CEO/Executive Director of Metra, thanking Rocky and the entire staff of Pace for
assistance carrying Metra riders during the extreme weather conditions.

Ridership was up approx. 20% in the ?rst three weeks of January from last year, then the
extreme weather conditions for a week caused a 10% reduction in ridership.

Rocky met with the DuPage Mayors and Managers Transportation Committee, South Suburban
Mayors and Managers, and the Lake County of Mayors. Rocky will be meeting with the Will
County Counsel of Mayors tomorrow, and the McHenry County Counsel of Mayors later in the
month. Rocky uses these forums to not only introduce himself, but to highlight the need for a
capital infrastructure bill in Springfield.

Pace held two public hearings; one yesterday in Bridgeview, and one Monday evening in
Bolingbrook concerning possible restructuring the 1?55 Bus on Shoulder service. There was a
total of 29 attendees at the two hearings. This service has been very successful since it started in
2011 with approximately 400 riders per day, and today Pace carries over 3,000 per day. Pace
carries as many people in this I-55 corridor as Metra carries on its Heritage line, which is
basically the same corridor. The proposed restructuring is designed to alleviate some of the
overcrowding and standing on Pace buses. Staff will compile comments received at the meeting
and present this to the Board at the March meeting, with potential restructuring implementation
at the April meeting. The proposal is a short-term Without capital resources for a new facility
in that corridor, or the resources to obtain additional vehicles, or increase parking at Park-n-Ride
lots, we will again experience overcrowding within a year. Pace?s number one capital request is
funding for this corridor.

Pace won the clean cities award for its CNG project. Tonight, a marketing presentation will show
Pace?s new commercial that won an APTA Ad Wheel award for the best transit television
commercial nationally for a transit system of Pace?s size.

Pace?s Annual Report for 2018 has been provided to the Board.

A memorandum outlining Pace?s upcoming strategic plan process which is for information only.
The process will kick-off later this month and staff will make a presentation to the Board, at the
April or May meeting.

Chairman Kwasneski commented that the 1-55 overcrowding situation and, ultimately, I-90 and
other areas in the future, additional buses are not available. Pace has tried to lease buses, but very
few, if any, are available. Even with the capital bill, obtaining buses could take much time.

February 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 5

With regard to the strategic plan, Chairman Kwasneski commented will be forming an ad hoc
strategic planning committee of Board members and asked that if any are interested, please let
him know. The Board?s input on a regular basis is integral as this process moves forward.

Action Items

SBD #19?12 Ordinance authorizing approval of Board Member travel and business expenses
for January 2019.

Director Claar moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, and Tamley. All Directors voted Aye.
Chairman Kwasneski abstained.

SBD #19-13 Ordinance authorizing the award of a contract to Garda CL Great Lakes, Inc., for
Transportation of Revenue Collection Equipment and Revenue Counting Services, in an amount
not to exceed $2,880,411.15.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

SBD #19?14 Ordinance authorizing the award of a change order to a contract with
Globetrotters Engineering Corporation for Architectural and Engineering Services for the
Northwest Transportation Center (N WTC). This action increases the contract total from
$294,294.54 to $332,612.97, an increase of $38,318.43.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Soto seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

SBD #19-15 Ordinance authorizing a change order to Contract Number 226223 with Apollo
Video Technology, LLC for Fleet?Wide System Maintenance for On-Board Equipment. This
action extends the contract term for ?fty??ve (55) months and increases the contract total from
$840,884.82 to $1,702,342.00, an increase of $861,457.18.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Canning seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance.
The motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

February 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 6

SBD #19-16 Ordinance authorizing the ?ling and execution of 2019 grant applications and
agreements with Pace?s funding Agencies.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Marcucci seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance.
The motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

Issues/Discussions/Reports

Doug Sullivan gave a report and presentation on Pace?s 2019 Marketing Plan. He ?rst
highlighted some 2018 accomplishments, one of which is the ?Transform your Ride?
commercial that was the 2018 APTA ?rst place award winner. Also highlighted was the
rebranding of Pace?s Call-n?Ride service to ?On Demand?. Pace also partnered with Telemundo
on a Spanish language promotion of Pace?s Vanpool program. 2019 plans include a social media
project to scour online conversations about transit in the region to help Pace better understand its
audience and target messaging, a focus on the Hispanic/Latino population, and marketing efforts
around the 2019 launch of Pulse. 2019 projects also include Pace?s 35th Anniversary,
communication about service changes, and continued technology/system advancements.

Melinda Metzger gave a report and presentation on the Northwest Division property in
Wheeling. The existing 430,000?sq. ft. building will be converted into a roughly 360,000?sq. ft.
garage with a new compressed natural gas (CNG) fueling station, to serve what will ultimately
be an all-CNG ?eet of about 160 buses with enough space to include the Vanpool ?eet and print
shop functions. Pace is working with the Village of Wheeling and IDOT to make improvements
to Old Willow Road to accommodate bus traf?c. Pace has already moved many Vanpool
vehicles into one garage section to protect them from the weather. Moving Vanpool and
printshop operations to this facility~among the ?rst portions of this proj ect?will save the
agency hundreds of thousands of dollars. While Pace projected a 2023 end to construction, the
Board asked staff to look at ways to shorten that timeframe.

Adjournment

Chairman Kwasneski asked for a motion to adjourn into Closed Session for the purposes of
discussing closed session minutes pending and probable litigation 1) and
employment matters Director Schielke moved, and Director Larson seconded the
motion. The motion passed with a unanimous vote from the Board of Directors at 5:45 pm.

Reconvene

Chairman Kwasneski reconvened the Open Session of the Pace Board of Directors meeting at
6:22 pm.

Directors physically present: Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin, Hastings, Larson, Marcucci,
Schielke, Shepley, Soto, and Chairman Kwasneski.

 

February 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 7

Director Tamley attended via teleconference.
Director Wells was absent.

SBD #19?17 Resolution approving the minutes of the Closed Session meeting of January 16,
2019.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Resolution. The
motion passed with a unanimous vote.

SBD #19-18 Ordinance approving action on the probable litigation in the acquisition of real
property located at 1825-1829 North La Fox Street, South Elgin, IL.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Canning seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance.
The motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

SBD #19-19 Ordinance approving the appointment of Rocco L. Donahue as Executive
Director of Pace effective March 1, 2019.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, and Chairman Kwasneski. All
Directors voted Aye.

There being no further business, Chairman Kwasneski asked for a motion and a second to
adjourn the meeting.

Director Larson moved, and Director Schielke seconded a motion to adjourn the Pace Board of
Directors meeting. The motion passed with a unanimous vote. The meeting adjourned at 6:24
pm.

The next regular meeting of the Pace Board of Directors will be held on Wednesday, March 13,
2019 at 4:30 pm. at Pace Corporate Headquarters, 550 West Algonquin Road, Arlington
Heights, Illinois.

W222.

Karen Kase
Acting Secretary, Board of Directors

 

