Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Minutes of the Technology and Innovation Committee
Tuesday, March 19, 2019

Present:

1:30 PM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

Tobolski, Morrison, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Miller, Morrison and Silvestri (9)
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Chairman Tobolski asked the Secretary to
speakers, in accordance with Cook County Code.

the

Board

to

call

upon

the

registered

public

1. Mark Armstrong - Chicago Urban Fine Arts Commonwealth
2. Amy Campanelli - Chief Public Defender
3. George Blakemore - Concerned Citizen
19-2310
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 11/14/2018
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Silvestri, to approve
19-2310. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Tobolski, Morrison, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Miller, Morrison and Silvestri (9)
19-1907

Sponsored by: JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook County Board Of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
REQUESTING A HEARING OF THE TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION COMMITTEE
TO DISCUSS THE FEASIBILITY AND EFFICACY OF VOLUNTARY REMOTE COURT
APPEARANCES

 Technology and Innovation Committee

Committee Minutes

March 19, 2019

WHEREAS, audio and video appearances in courtrooms offer an enormous potential for savings,
revenue generation, environmental benefits, improved safety and remote access to justice which promotes
the administration of justice and equity in the courtroom; and
WHEREAS, remote court appearances allow attorneys and the public to appear in court for routine
matters involving Civil, Criminal, Family, Probate, Mental Health, Traffic, Juvenile, Bankruptcy and other
proceedings without leaving their homes or offices; and
WHEREAS, in 2016, In its Call to Action: Achieving Civil Justice for All, the Conference of Chief
Justices’ Civil Justice Improvement Committee set forth a convincing series of findings and
recommendations, which among them was the promotion of remote audio and video services for court
hearings and management; and
WHEREAS, the Center for Legal and Court Technology, a non-profit research organization that
improves the administration of Justice through the use of technology, progressively encourages the
utilization of remote and video court appearances throughout the United States to enhance the efficiency
of judicial administration and court proceedings for both attorney’s and the public; and
WHEREAS, in 1992, the Supreme Court of Illinois adopted rule 185 to allow for telephonic appearances
in certain civil proceedings; and in 2017, the Supreme Court of Illinois amended its rules to also allow for
remote video conferences; and
WHEREAS, in Los Angeles Superior Court a system with approximately 494 judicial officers and
comparable to the Cook County Circuit Court, over 200 of those judicial officers allow for remote court
appearances with a volume of over 83,000 appearances in 2018; moreover, approximately $4.6 million in
revenue over a three-year period attributable to remote court appearances in Los Angeles was generated;
and
WHEREAS, in Illinois, approximately 20 counties spread over 12 Judicial Circuits utilize some form of
audio and video remote appearances with approximately 4,516 remote appearance being completed in
2018; more particularly, the following “Collar” county courts use remote court appearance technology: the
16th Judicial Circuit - Kane County 3,305 appearances since 11/2011, the 18th Judicial Circuit Court DuPage County 1,379 since 9/2014, the 19th Judicial Circuit - Lake County 1,456 since 6/2016 and the
22nd Judicial Circuit - McHenry County 2,280 since 4/2014; and
WHEREAS, Cook County has been and continues to be a leader in technology through strategic
Countywide initiatives and collaboration with elected offices; thus, our existing applications and resources
will allow for a seamless integration of our existing technology platforms with audio and video remote
appearances; and
WHEREAS, the use of video and audio remote court appearances has the potential to offer key benefits
to the public, such as cost savings on attorney fees for lower-income citizens, increasing pro bono

Page 2 of 5

 Technology and Innovation Committee

Committee Minutes

March 19, 2019

assistance, availability of court interpreters, travel costs and work absences associated with attending a
court hearing can deter self-represented litigants from effectively pursuing or defending their legal rights,
thereby further promoting access to justice in courts.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners does
hereby request a hearing of the Technology and Innovation Committee be convened to review and discuss
the potential feasibility, application, and access to justice that remote court appearances may have in Cook
County courtrooms; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a representative from the Chief Judge’s Office, Court of Clerk’s
Office, and Cook County Bureau of Technology appear before the Committee and be prepared to update
the committee on the feasibility and efficacy of remote court appearances.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley,
19-1907. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

seconded

by

Commissioner

Silvestri,

to

defer

Tobolski, Morrison, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Miller, Morrison and Silvestri (9)

19-1710
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
REPORT
Department: Bureau of Technology
Report Title: Information Security Framework Semi-Annual Report
Report Period: 8/1/2018-1/31/2019
Summary:

Summary: Pursuant to Resolution 17-2732, the Chief Information Security Officer shall

update the Board of Commissioners via the Technology Committee on the state of the information
security in Cook County government. The Information Security Framework Semi-Annual Report will
provide the status of all Agencies’ adoption and compliance of the Information Security Framework.
Included in the report is a summary of all advice and recommendations of each Agency regarding their
unique considerations. Additionally, updates will be provided regarding current security controls and the
Vulnerability Threat Management Program.
A closed meeting is requested, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2 (c)(8):
“Security procedures, school building safety and security, and the use of the personnel and equipment to
respond to an actual, a threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students,
staff, the public, or public property.” Given the confidential nature of the Report, a closed meeting is
Page 3 of 5

 Technology and Innovation Committee

Committee Minutes

March 19, 2019

necessary to maintain the safety and security of Cook County residents and stakeholders.
A motion was made by Commissioner Silvestri, seconded by Commissioner
recommend for receiving and filing 19-1710. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Britton,

to

Tobolski, Morrison, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Miller, Morrison and Silvestri (9)

* This item may be discussed in Executive
exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(8).

Session

pursuant

to

the

security

procedures

19-1675
Presented by: F. THOMAS LYNCH, Chief Information Officer, Bureau of Technology
PROPOSED CONTRACT (TECHNOLOGY)
Department(s): Bureau of Technology
Vendor: SHI International Corp., Somerset, New Jersey
Request: Authorization for the Chief Procurement Officer to enter into and execute contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Countywide software and related services.
Contract Value: $56,000,000.00
Contract period: 3/29/2019 - 3/28/2023, with three (3), one-year renewal options
Potential Fiscal Year Budget
$14,000,000, FY 2022 $14,000,000.

Impact:

FY

2019 $14,000,000,

FY

2020 $14,000,000,

FY

2021

via

direct

Accounts: Countywide, various capital and operating accounts.
Contract Number(s): 1730-16843
Concurrence(s):
The vendor has
participation

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

The Chief Procurement Officer concurs.
Summary: The Bureau of Technology is requesting authorization for the Chief Procurement
enter into and execute a four-year contract with SHI International Corp. to serve as
value-added reseller for the County. Through this proposed agreement, SHI International
provide the County’s mission-critical software products, as well as software maintenance, to
Page 4 of 5

Officer to
a software
Corp. will
all County

 Technology and Innovation Committee

Committee Minutes

March 19, 2019

agencies, and perform related services. This contract will serve as the primary distribution vehicle for
common software products used by County staff.
This contract was awarded through a competitive Request for Proposal (RFP) process in accordance
with the Cook County Procurement Code. SHI International Corp. was awarded based on established
evaluation criteria.
A motion was made by Commissioner Daley, seconded by
recommend for approval 19-1675. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

Commissioner

Silvestri,

to

Tobolski, Morrison, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Miller, Morrison and Silvestri (9)
ADJOURNMENT

A motion was made by Vice Chairman Morrison, seconded
adjourn the meeting. The motion carried by the following vote:
Ayes:

by

Commissioner

Tobolski, Morrison, Britton, Daley, Deer, Degnen, Miller, Morrison and Silvestri (9)

Respectfully submitted,

Chairman

Secretary

A complete record of this meeting is available at https://cook-county.legistar.com.

Page 5 of 5

Britton,

to

 