Commissioners
MARiSEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary

lUMIUI

JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioners

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Regular Board Meeting
February 14, 2019,9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chair

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director

Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
Amanda Robledo, Acting Purchasing Agent
Myrna Webb, Videographer
Trish Sheehy
Guests:

Bonni McKeown, City Bureau

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago (LWV Chicago)
C, Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Judd Ryan, ES&S
Coiin Smith, City Bureau

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:31 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: Chair Hernandez and Commissioner Swain were present. Commissioner Kresse was
expected shortly after Roll Call. He joined the meeting as the Executive Director's Report was
concluding.

III.

Consideration of Agenda: Because of a Court Call and the need for the Board to meet with
Board Attorneys in Executive Session before court. Executive Session was moved before Old
Business on the agenda, and Public Comment was shifted to after the Communication
Director's Report.

IV.

Approval of Minutes

A.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of December 11, 2018: Commissioner Swain
moved to approve the Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of December 11,2018. Chair

Hernandez seconded the motion. The motion passed and the Minutes were approved by
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027
chicagoelections.com •cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElecUon

 Regular Board Meeting - February 14,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners
2:0 vote of the Board

B.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of December 27,2018: Commissioner
Swain moved to approve the Minutes ofthe Regular Board Meeting of December 27,2018.
Chair Hernandez seconded the motion.The motion passed and the Minutes were
approved by 2:0 vote ofthe Board
V.

Executive Director's Report

VI.

Executive Director Lance Gough reported as follows:
• Executive Director Gough brought the following dates to the attention of the Board:

o The Presidential Election for the nation of Senegal will be held on February 24*'^.
As in the past, we will provide space for the conduct of this election, specifically.
Lower Level Conference Room A. Mr. Gough has heard from the Senegalese
Consulate General in New York that they are most appreciative of this.

o Representatives from the State of New York will be visiting on February 21®^ to see
our Early Voting (EV) sites. They are most interested in our Supersite at 175 W.
Washington. Judd Ryan of ES&S, who is their vendor in New York, will be their
escort in Chicago. General Counsel Adam Lasker stated that the State of New York

has just passed a law allowing for Early Voting.
• The Illinois State Board of Elections (ISBE)come in and conducted an audit of our
equipment. The ISBE, along with our staff, conducted logic and accuracy tests, as well as
test transmissions from our warehouse to central system. Everything went very well.

Mr. Gough also noted that on Election Day,for the first time, we will have computers in
Election Central tied directly to the Department of Homeland Security(DHS)and the FBI
(Federal Bureau of Investigation) re: cyber security.
We have a booklet showing all of the different items DHS will supply us, what they are
looking at, and what they will be doing. FBI will also be here monitoring on Election Day.
There will be several people from both DHS and FBI at the Board on Election Day.
• Early Voting (EV) is up and running.

• Mr. Gough requested that a Special Board meeting be scheduled for some time next
week, in case anything would come up.

• Commissioner Swain asked if the EV sites will be open later on Monday, February 25^^.
Mr. Gough responded that EV will be open at least until 5 on Monday in order for us to
have time to prepare for the next day. Election Day. The EV sites will be open 7 days a
week up until Election Day allowing ample time to vote.
A.

Assistant Executive Director's Report
Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday reported as follows:
o ISBE was very impressed with the operations at the warehouse, at headquarters,
and by the IT Department.

Page 2 of6

 Regular Board Meeting - February 14,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

o Specimen ballots and new poll sheets are ready.
o Mr. Holiday has been checking with all the departments to make sure that they
have what they need and are ready for the election.
Mr. Gough interjected that we are finishing pre-LAT (pre-election logic and
accuracy testing) today. Equipment carriers are being delivered as we speak;
actually a few days ahead of schedule.
B.

Communications Director's Report
Communications Director Jim Allen reported as follows:
o The Mass mailing is complete, that is, the last file has been delivered to the
mailing house.
o

Legal notices and promotions for Vote by Mail(VBM)and Early Voting (EV), and
the Specimen Ballots are all up to date.

o

Early Voting lauched earlier this week.

o We are fielding questions from the media about Election Day.
o We are working hard on filling Judge of Election vacancies.
VII.
Viii.

Public Comment: None
Executive Session: Commissioner Swain moved to enter into Executive Session to discuss

personnel matters. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous vote.The Board entered into Executive Session at 9:40 a.m.

The Board returned from Executive Session and the Chair called the open session back to
order at 10:54 a.m. stating that there was no formal action taken in closed session.
iX.

Old Business

A.
infrastructure Projects and Changes in Election Administration: These matters will
be taken up after the election.
B.
Electronic Poll Books: E-poll books are performing well per Mr. Holiday.
C.
Voting Equipment: Will resume review after the election.
D.
Legislation: Mr. Lasker reported that he is compiling a list of proposals to track
and will get the list to the Board. He has met with the Speaker's office to try to advance
our agenda.
X.

New Business

A.
Professional Services Agreement between the Chicago Board of Elections and
Ronald Boyd.
Mr. Lasker pointed out that Mr. Boyd has extensive experience In setting up Early Voting
and Receiving sites and setting up communications and transmissions for election night.
He will continue to set up and test communication systems and set up and testing of epoll book transmissions and communication systems. The term would be calendar year
2019 specific to the Municipal and any runoff elections. At a rate of $45.00 per hour not

Page 3 of6

 Regular Board Meeting - February 14,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

to exceed $95,000 over the term of the agreement. The Chair asked if there would be
any work after the elections. Mr. Gough state that there would be work after the
elections as we will be looking at acquiring new equipment. Mr. Boyd will be writing
specifications on how we will implement the new equipment with Early Voting, how it's
going to be installed and with the new remote sites.
Commissioner Swain moved to approve the agreement between the Board and Ronald

Boyd for the calendar year 2019, at the rate of $45 per hour- not to exceed $95,000
over the term of the agreement. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion. The motion
was passed by unanimous vote of the Board.

B.
Approval of Contracts for Cartage of Election Equipment, Geographical Areas for
the 2018 Elections in the City of Chicago
• Mr. Lasker pointed out that contractual agreement is in fact the Invitation for Bid
(IFB) document.

• Acting Purchasing Agent Amanda Robledo presented;
o The Board sent out an Invitation for Bid (IFB) on January 3, 2019 for the
cartage of equipment for the Municipal election and run-offs (February and
April 2019 elections).
o Ms. Robledo had worked with General Counsel Adam Lasker and Manager of
the Pre-Election Voting and Logistics Department, Clinton Hurde,to
administer the IFB and review the responses.
o Ms. Robledo had reached out to 10 vendors, only 5 replied. Of the 5 replies 2
vendors were the lowest in specific Geographic Areas. The vendors are
Pickens Kane and Big "0" Movers.
o Pickens Kane was the lowest bidder in Areas A, B and D. Big "0" Movers was
the lowest bidder in Area C.

o

Upon tabulation of all bids received, Ms. Robledo has determined that the
following are the lowest responsive and responsible bidders for the following
Geographic Areas:
■

Area A - Pickens Kane

■

Area B- Pickens Kane

■

Area C- Big "0" Movers

■

Area D - Pickens Kane

There was discussion on how the bids were submitted and calculated.

Mr. Gough stated that Pickens Kane(PK) has reached out to minority-owned businesses
for drivers.

Mr. Lasker stated that the pricing terms are included in the spreadsheets per unit(based
on number of precincts. Early Voting sites and units of equipment within the Area)and
the other terms are within the IFB.

Page 4 of6

 Regular Board Meeting - February 14,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

The Chair entertained a motion to approve the cartage of voting equipment in
accordance with bid tabulation sheets, and that the award would go to Area A, Pickens
Kane, Area B, Pickens Kane, Area C, Big "0" Movers and Area D, Pickens Kane, in the
amounts set forth in the bid tabulation sheets for each of these cartage companies,for
the General Municipal Election and runoff elections for 2019.
Commissioner Kresse made the motion. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The

motion was approved and the contracts awarded by 3:0 vote of the Board.
Mr. Gough stated that in the future we will put a per site cost in the bids.

C.
Professional Services Agreement between the Chicago Board of Elections and
Michael P. Murphy: Mr. Gough requested, and the Board agreed,to table this item at this
time.

XI.

Legal Report

XII.

General Counsel Adam Lasker reported as follows:
• There were seven cases in which the Board was named for Judicial Review, including:
o

A 20**^ Ward candidate's case that is still in Circuit Court- briefs are not due until

after the February election;
o Two City Clerk candidates that appealed to the appellate court(the Circuit Court
affirmed the CBEC's decision);

o A15*^ Ward case that is in court today;

o A 29*^ Ward case that has filed in the Appellate Court;
o A 27th Ward case that is up this afternoon.
• Posted notices at EV sites, and will be posted in the booths for in-precinct voting, stating
that due to pending court cases, ballots may be subject to change. However,these
notices are not included with the Vote by Mail(VBM) ballots, as the majority of VBM
ballots were mailed before the court cases began. Commissioner Swain stated that the
notices received by VBM voters should be consistent with notices that a voter would see
in the precinct polling place, and that going forward a notice should be included in the
VBM mailings.

• Accessibility: we will be meeting again with the Department of Justice (DoJ), and we have
meeting scheduled with City department heads and the DoJ.

• Mr. Holiday raised a concern about a particular write-in candidate who filed as a write-in
candidate in every ward, but with some variations In his name in some cases. Mr. Lasker
explained that the Board's only responsibility is to provide a list of write-in candidates to
the Judges of Election so that they know which write-in votes to count In the precinct.
Mr. Allen recommended, and the Board concurred, that we only use the first version of
the candidate's name on the various write-in candidate listings.

Page 5 of6

 Regular Board Meeting - February 14,2019
Chicago Board of Ejection Commissioners

XIII.

Financial Report: None

(Mr. Lasker reported that he just received notice that in the Williams (15th ward) case,the
Circuit Court just affirmed the Board's decision, but there may still be an appeal.)
XIV.

Adjournment: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn untii a Special Board Meeting on
Tuesday, February 19th. Commissioner Kresse seconded the motion.The motion was passed
by unanimous vote ofthe Board.The Board adjourned at 11:17 a.m.

Submitted,

Commissioner Wiiliam J. Kresse

Secretary

Page 6 of6

 