Alton James
Chairperson
Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

City of Detroit
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cc-cpc@detroitmi.gov

Brenda Goss-Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis
David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING
The City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing in the Committee of the Whole Room,
13th floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan
48226, on

Thursday, April 11, 2019 at 7:30 PM
to consider the request of the Roxbury Group, LLC to amend Article XVII, District Map 4, of the
1984 Detroit City Code Chapter 61, Zoning, by modifying the provisions of the existing PD-H
(Planned Development District-Historic) zoning classification for the property located in the
3400 Woodward Avenue block generally bounded by Eliot Street and the vacated portion of
Eliot Street, John R. Street, Erskine Street and Woodward Avenue to establish the development
known as the West Elm Hotel Detroit. The request proposes to allow for a twelve (12) story hotel
tower and a two (2) story glass conservatory.
The subject property is located within the Brush Park Historic District. The existing zoning
district is generally defined by the zoning ordinance as follows
PD – PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
This district will permit planned developments throughout the City and will be particularly
useful in urban renewal areas. Such planned developments shall be substantially in accord with
the goals and objectives of the Master Plan, by having a major land use that corresponds to the
most general category of land use, which are Residential, Public/Civic/Institutional,
Retail/Service/Commercial, Manufacturing and Industrial, and Other, proposed in the Master
Plan for the area involved. Such planned developments shall provide a desirable environment for
the uses proposed and shall not be out of harmony with their general surroundings. The
regulations of the district are designed to accomplish this by permitting flexibility in overall
development while ensuring adequate safeguards and standards for public health, safety,
convenience, and general welfare and, where applicable, encouraging historic preservation.
The proposed PD modification is being considered by the City Planning Commission in
accordance with the provisions of Article XI, Division 1. of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, Sec.
61-11-12.
You may present your views on this proposal by attending this discussion, by authorizing others
to represent you, or by writing to this office prior to the discussion, 2 Woodward Avenue, room
208, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because some that are affected by this
proposal may not have been notified, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so
that they may also express their opinions if they desire.

 Interpreters for hearing-impaired residents may be present, if requested at least 48 business hours
in advance. To make a request, contact the Department of Civil Rights, Inclusion & Opportunity
(CRIO) at 224-9516.

Proposed PD Modification
Shaded area = Subject Site
Dashed line = General Boundary

 