Commissioners
MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ. Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissior^er
LANCE GOUGH. Executive Director

Board of Election Commissioaers

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Draft Minutes of the

Special Board Meeting
February 19, 2019, 9:30 a.m.
69 West Washington Street, 8th Floor Conference Room, Chicago, iliinols 60602

Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chair

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
LaCretia Dandridge, Human Resources Manager
Amanda Robledo, Acting Purchasing Agent
Bill Perez
Sarita Villarreal

Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Michal Czech, Videographer
Irish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)
C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition

I.

Call to Order: The Chair called the meeting to order at 9:38 a.m.

II.

Roll Call: All members were present

III.

Consideration of Agenda: The agenda was accepted as presented.

IV.

Approval of Minutes: No minutes presented for approval.

V.

Executive Director's Report

Executive Director Lance Gough reported as foliows;
• This coming weekend is the "big push" for the election next Tuesday.
• Nursing Home voting will take place on Friday, Saturday and Monday.
69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602• 312-269-7900•TTY 312-269-0027
chicagoelections.com • cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Special Board Meeting - February 19.2019
Chicago Board of Eiection Commissioners

• Last weekend the pretrial detainees voted. We had over 650 applications. It went well,
with no complaints
• We have received a lower than usual amount of Vote by Mail(VBM) ballot returns.
Communications Director Jim Allen will send emails to those VBM voters for whom we

have an email address to remind them to return their ballot before the deadline. Because

the majority of VBM voters applied on line, we have many of their email addresses. To
date we have received a return of approximately one-third of the ballots(13,000)that
were sent.

• Mr. Gough expressed concerned because:

o As of yesterday 1,000 Election Supply Carriers(BSC) were still at the warehouse.
o We have nine polling place vacancies. As a policy matter. If we don't get Vote
Centers we will have to reduce the number of precincts. It is getting more and
more difficult to secure polling places. We pay $140.00 per polling place, which is
insufficient for some proprietors as it costs them more to open up.
o We are working with the Department of Justice (DoJ) regarding polling place
accessibility; we have a 3:00 meeting today with other agencies.
• Pre-election Logic and Accuracy Test(Pre-LAT) is caught up. The warehouse is only
working until 4:00 PM this week as they have caught up on the work and will be working
long hours this weekend and on Election Day.

• Commissioner Swain asked how long it will take to get VBM ready for April. Mr. Gough
said he will get back to the Board members after a meeting on potential ballot layout and
preparation scheduled for tomorrow.
• The Chair suggested that an email go out reminding VBM applicants to return the ballot.

• The Chair asked what percentage of VBM voters are applying with email addresses. Mr.
Allen stated that 70% of the applications came through the online application.
• There was a discussion on whether making Election Day a holiday or moving Election Day
to a Saturday or Sunday would increase voter participation. Mr. Allen said that the
turnout at EV sites on weekends and holidays are low as people don't spend holidays
voting.

Assistant Executive Director Report

Assistant Executive Director Charles Holiday reported as follows:
Mr. Holiday provided Judge of Election and Election Coordinator statistics
including that we have 10,735 assigned judges.

We currently have 46 precincts with less than three judges.
There are six high school, and ten new and standby Judge of Election training
sessions scheduled.

Page 2 of5

 special Board Meeting - February 19,2019
Chicago Board of Eiection Commissioners

• The Judge of Election key pickup will be Friday at 69 W Washington. If the key
judge does not pick up the key on Friday, they can pick up keys at the EV site in
their assigned Ward on Saturday.
• ES&S and Ai Chase of the Board's IT department are finalizing the data fiies and
testing for e-poll books.
• The public test on

floor will take place on Thursday.

• Remote site training took piace last weekend and meeting with receiving station
supervisors this Friday.

• The Board's Lower ievel conference room A wiii be used from 7 a.m.to 8 p.m. on
Sunday for the nation of Senegal's Presidential Election.
• The pre-election Election Central briefing will be at 9:30 AM on Sunday.
• Working with managers and staff to make sure that they have the staffing and
supplies that they need.
B.

Communications Director Report

Communication Director James Allen reported as follows:
• He is mostly handling media requests for data. We have approximately 1.58
million registered voters.
VI.

Old Business

A.

Infrastructure Projects and Changes in Eiection Administration: We will return to

this after the elections.

B.

Electronic Poll Books: Doing well.

C.

Voting Equipment: on hold until after the election.

D.

Legislation {Mr. Lasker)
• Omnibus bill for eiection items. Ail legislative items on our list has been discussed,
including eiection centers, and use of ballot envelope to update signatures.
• Commissioner Kresse inquired about the status of Automatic Voter Registration
(AVR). Mr. Lasker responded that we are waiting for the Secretary of State to get
"REAL ID" implemented.

VII.

New Business

A.
Professional Services Agreement between the Chicago Board of Elections and
Michael P. Murphy.
Besides working Election Day, Mr. Murphy performs other matters, such as the
ongoing recruiting and training of investigator supervisors. He is also reviewing
security processes and is working with the Board to develop the security portion

Page 3 of 5

 Spectai Board Meeting - February 19,2019
Chicago Board of Ejection Commissioners

of the written contingency plan. Commissioner Kresse confirmed that the written
contingency plan will be delivered by end of year.
Commissioner Kresse moved to approve a Professional Services Agreement
between the Chicago Board of Elections and Michael P. Murphy for the term of
January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019 at the rate of $90 per hour not to
exceed $20,000. Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion was
approved by unanimous vote of the Board.
B.

Reconsideration of apparent-conformity disqualification of the "Assessment

Limits" referendum in Precinct 38 of Ward 48.

Mr. Lasker asked that the Board defer this item at the request of the proponent
who was unable to attend this meeting. Mr. Lasker asked to move it to March 12
Board meeting. The Board agreed to defer the item.
C.

Resolution to authorize disposal of materials from the 2017 special election in the

4th Ward.

D.
Mr. Lasker explained that this was a routine item that complies with federal law
regarding disposal of materials.(Due to the March 2016 election still being in litigation,
we cannot dispose of those documents.) Disposal of materials from the 2017 special
election In the 4th Ward is necessary due to the need for room at the warehouse.
Commissioner Swain moved to adopt the Resolution. Commissioner Kresse
seconded the motion. The motion passed and the Resolution was adopted by a
3:0 vote of the Board.

VIII.
Legal Report
• Nursing Home voting has an Election Central/hotline. We have Attorneys lined up for
Nursing Home Election Central.

• We have the responses of two-thirds of the invited attorneys for Election Day Election
Central. We are contacting the remaining third for responses.
• We have received favorable rulings from the Circuit Court on all of the Judicial Review
cases.

• Three cases are in the Appellate Court including the two City Clerk candidate cases. We
have placed notices in all EV sites regarding this matter. We expect we will be getting a
ruling from Appellate Court by the end of the work week.

• The 29^*^ ward Aldermanic case is also in the Appellate Court. Hopefully by the end of the
week we will get a decision from that court.
IX.

Financial Report: None.

X.

Public Comment: None.

XI.

Executive Session: Not needed.

Page 4 of5

 special Board Meeting - February 19,2019
Chicago Board of Election Commissioners

XII.
Adjournment: The Board moved to adjourn until February 26th at 7:00 a.m. The meeting
was adjourned at 9:59a.m.
Submitted,

Commissiorjef William J. Kresse
Secretary

Page 5 of5

 