Alton James ?tit? at it Brenda Cass-Andrews

Citai crson .-
Luummuood, MCI) CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 523,32233': 
Vice 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory 
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Mg? Webb

e?mail: 

NOTICE OF A PUBLIC DISCUSSION

The City Planning Commission will hold a public discussion in the Committee of the Whole
Room. 131" ?oor of the Coleman A. Youn Munici al Center. 2 Woodward Avenue Detroit

Michigan 48226, on

 

Thursday, April 4, 2019 at 7:30 PM

to consider the request of Detroit Entertainment, L.L.C. MotorCity Casino for approval of a
modi?cation to the previously approved development proposal for a casino complex in the SDS
(Special Development District, Casinos) zoning classi?cation generally described as the area bounded
by Grand River, Elm, Trumbull, Spruce, Brooklyn, Pine and the Lodge Freeway, comprising
approximately 24.75 acres. The location of the existing SDS district is indicated on the accompanying
map.

The proposed modi?cation would permit the addition of 700 new parking spaces via the construction

of an eight (8) story expansion at the east end of the existing parking deck erected on the property
bounded by Elm, Brooklyn, Temple and Trumbull.

The SDS zoning classi?cation is generally described as follows:
SDS Special Development District for Casinos

The SDS Special Development District is designed to facilitate the location of licensed casinos and
casino complexes within the boundaries established by the City of Detroit for casino gaming activities.
The SDS District focuses on urban entertainment and recreational activities that will enhance the area
as a desirable location for tourists, conventions, and urban life. The provisions of the district
encourage pedestrian and transit-oriented linkages between casinos and casino complexes and other
activity areas within the city. Because of the special characteristics of casinos and casino complexes,
the requirements applicable to development in this district include submittal requirements and criteria
that are speci?ed in this division. These regulations are designed to ensure that casinos and casino
complexes contribute positively to the built environment that the operation of casinos and casino
complexes will help to enhance, expand and stabilize employment and the local economy while
simultaneously ensuring effective public services and a high quality of life for nearby businesses,
institutions and residents.

After review and recommendation by the Planning and DeveIOpment Department and the
City Planning Commission, the City Council shall review and approve site plans and design
features for all casinos and casino complexes.

Modi?cations to approved plans may be permitted by the City Planning Commission or its
staff per the provisions of Section 61-11-276

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this discussion, by authorizing others
to represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the discussion, 2 Woodward Avenue, room
208, Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because some that are affected by this

proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors so
that they may also express their opinions if they desire.

Interpreters for hearing-impaired residents may be present, {frequested at least 48 business hours
in advance. To make a request, contact the Department of Civil Rights, Inclusion Opportunity
(CRIO) at 224-95162f.21SDS 

Proposed SD5 Modification
Shaded area Subject Site

