Alton James @it? at Etta it Brenda Cass-Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis
Lauren Hood, MCI)

menu-5mm,- CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Frederick E. Russell, 
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Angy Webb
Phone: (313) 2246225 Fax: (313) 224-4336

email: cpcl'igi'detroitmigov
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Planning Commission in the Committee ofthe

Whole Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,
Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY. APRIL 4. 3019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider the request of the Thomas Group Consulting and Parkstone Development Partners to
amend Article XVII, District Map No. 63 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by
showing a B4 (General Business District) and Bl (Restricted Business District) zoning
classi?cation where an R6 (High Density Residential District) zoning classi?cation currently
exists on one (1) parcel, commonly identi?ed as 18520 W. Seven Mile Road.

The location of the proposed rezoning is speci?cally indicated as the shaded area on the
accompanying map.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to allow for the establishment of a ?Store of a
generally recognized retail nature whose primary business is the sale of new merchandise? along
the W. Seven Mile Road frontage, and a ?Governmental service agency? on the balance of the
parcel at 18520 W. Seven Mile Road. The proposed retail and commercial uses would be
permitted on a by-right basis in the proposed BI and B4 zoning classi?cations pending the

approval of a text amendment to allow governmental service agencies in the B1 zoning
classi?cation.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:
R6 High Density Residential District

The district is designed as a high-density multiple-dwellings district to be used primarily
in areas adjacent to the Central business district, the New Center Area, the Cultural Center,
the waterfront, certain large city parks, and other areas which have a high concentration of
persons and land values. This district will permit a range of living accommodations, from
the low-density dwelling up to very high-density dwellings, including institutions and
residentially related uses, and will permit certain speci?ed service and convenience-type
commercial uses of a character unlikely to develop excessive traf?c but which will serve
the residents of the immediate area. Single-family detached and two-family dwellings will
not be permitted in this district by?right but may be allowed as Conditional Uses.

Bl Restricted Business District

The Bl District is designed to provide an adequately controlled transition in land use from
residential to business and commercial uses and is mapped accordingly. Permitted uses are
limited to those which are desirable and can be ?tted into such a transitional pattern of land

use. Front, side, and rear setbacks are required of all permitted residential and commercial uses.

To protect housing adjacent or across an alley, a lot line wall is required of nonresidential uses
where adjacent to, or across an alley from, residential property.

B4 General Business District

The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a
thoroughfare-oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may bene?t

by drawing part of their clientele from passing traf?c are permitted. Additional uses, which
may be successfully blended with permitted by-right uses, are conditional.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
Division 3 of Chapter 61 ofthe 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are affected

by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors
so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please

contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at 313-224-4950, through the
TTY number 7  1, or email crio@detroitmi.gov to schedule these services.

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225@111 'cmamnce - 3.1 3.1 134 13.: a4 54 Ba
SEVEN MILE 'IProposed Rezoning from R6 to B1 and B4

