4-2?19

PUBLIC HEALTH
AND SAFETY
STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 27, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001979 100% City Funding To Provide Renovations for BSEED. Contractor:
Detroit Building Authority Location: 1301 Third St. #328, Detroit, MI
48226 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval through August 29,
2021 Total Contract Amount: $700,000.00. BUILDINGS SAFETY
ENGINEERING AND ENVIORMENT

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001979 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated March 27, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

5?1

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
March 27, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001903 100% City Funding To Provide Annual Ground Ladder Testing for
DFD. Contractor: Fire?Cat 7601 Location: 3250 W. Big Beaver Rd.,
Ste. 544, troy, MI 48084 Contract Period: Upon City Council Approval
through February 28, 2021 ?Total Contract Amount: $40,000.00. FIRE

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001903 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated March 27, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

36

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 27, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6000468 38.42% Federal Funding, 61.58% State Funding AMEND 3 To
Provide Fiduciary Services for the Health Department. Contractor:
Southeastern Michigan Health Association Location: 200 Fisher Blvd,
3011 W. grand Blvd, Detroit, MI 48202 Contract Period: Upon City
Council Approval through June 30, 2019 Contract Increase:
$5,883,982.58 ?Total Contract Amount: $47,739,563.58. HEALTH

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000468 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated March 27, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

March 27, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

3032105 100% City Funding To Provide Emergency Residential Demolition at
5281 and 5287 Cabot. Contractor: Gayanga Co Location: 1420
Washington Detroit, MI 48226? Contract Date: Upon City Council
Approval through April 1, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $46,275.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3032105 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated March 27, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

319

51?

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
March 27, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following firm(s) or person(s):

3032431 100% City Funding To Provide Emergency Residential Demolition at
3531 28th. Street Contractor: Gayanga Co Location: 1420 Washington
Detroit, MI 48226? Contract Date: Upon City Council Approval through
April 1, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $33,781.00. HOUSING AND
REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3032431 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated March 27, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
March 27, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

3032433 100% City Funding To Provide Emergency Residential Demolition at
9383 Cascade. Contractor: Smalley Construction, Inc. Location: 1224
Locust St., Jackson, MI 49203 Contract Date: Upon City Council
Approval through April 1, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $23,400.00.
HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3032433 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated March 27, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
March 27, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

3032490 100% City Funding To Provide Emergency Residential Demolition at
6189 Field. Contractor: Gayanga Co Location: 1420 Washington
Detroit, MI 48226? Contract Date: Upon City Council Approval through
April 1, 2020 Total Contract Amount: $23,150.00. HOUSING AND
REVITALIZATION

ReSpectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER BENSON

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 3032490 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated March 27, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

3?1

 COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL 
2 WOODWARD Ava, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY or DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL (313) 224-0484 - 4 0

   

.GOV

Date: March 25, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 15350 Lawton
NAME: CaSandra Edmonds
Demolition Ordered: July 13, 2015

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on March 15, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?t deferral request for this

 

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te__n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within fortv~?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

0 Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
. Certificate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
I Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
?nther notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office of the City Clerk.

Respectfully submitted,

Director
DB:bkd

cc: CaSandra Edmonds, 327 Lakewood St., Detroit, MI 48215

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL run
2 WOODWARD Ave, FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL l? (313) 224-0484 - 



 
 
 


Date: March 21, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 20589 Waltham
NAME: A-N-A RENTAL L. JOHNSON
Demolition Ordered: September 17, 2018

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (BSEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on March 19, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?It deferral request for this

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within t_e_n_ (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule a Progress Inspection within forty??ve (45) calendar davs from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty? we (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

- Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
0 Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
0 Certi?cate of Compliance, required for a_ll rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the of?ce of the City Clerk.

Resp ullyr submitted,

David Bell
Director

.-
. ELEM. WEBE-

cc: A-N-A RENTAL LLC, 26400 LAHSER RD-STE 365, SOUTHFIELD, MI 48033
ATTN: Antwayne Johnson

   

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL. 
2 WOODWARD AVE., FOURTH FLOOR
CITY OF DETROIT DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

BUILDINGS, ENGINEERING AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT (313) 224-0484 - TTY27II
4L

Date: March 21, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: RECOMMENDATION FOR DEFERRAL
ADDRESS: 1211 Edison
NAME: Furious Firm Holdings, LLC
Demolition Ordered: April 11, 2011

In response to the request for a deferral of the demolition order on the property noted above, the Buildings, Safety Engineering and
Environmental Department (B SEED) submits the following information:

A special inspection conducted on March 19, 2019 revealed that the building is secured and appears to be sound and repairable. The owner
has paid all taxes and is current. The proposed use of the property is owner?s use and occupancy. This is the 1?It deferral request for this

property.
Therefore, we respectfully recommended that the demolition order be deferred for a period of six months subject to the following
conditions:

1. A permit for rehabilitation work shall be applied for within te_n (10) business days from the date of the City Council
decision.

2. BSEED will schedule 11 Progress Inspection within fern-?ve (45) calendar days from the date of the rehabilitation
permit to determine whether substantial progress has been made. Thereafter, the owner must submit to BSEED
detailed inspection reports, with photos showing evidence of the work completed, every forty-?ve (45) calendar
days, for the duration of the rehabilitation work, to demonstrate that substantial progress has been made during
the approved time frame for rehabilitation.

3. The building shall have all imminently hazardous conditions immediately corrected, be maintained, and securely
barricaded until rehabilitation is complete. Rehabilitation work is to be completed within six (6) months, at which
time the owner will obtain one of the following from this department:

I Certi?cate of Acceptance related to building permits
it Certi?cate of Approval as a result of a Housing Inspection
I Certi?cate of Compliance, required for rental properties

4. The owner shall not occupy or allow occupancy of the structure without a certi?cate (as outlined above).

5. The yards shall be maintained clear of overgrown vegetation, weeds, junk and debris at all times.

6. Prior to seeking a permit extension, the owner must contact BSEED and request to extend the deferral period.

We recommend that utility disconnect actions cease to allow the progress of the rehabilitation.

At the end of the deferral period, the owner must contact this department to arrange an inspection to evidence that conditions of the deferral
have been satis?ed and that there has been substantial progress toward rehabilitation. If the building becomes open to trespass or if conditions
of the deferral are not followed, the deferral may be rescinded by the City Council at any time and we may proceed with demolition without
further notice. In addition, pursuant to the Property Maintenance Code we will issue a Blight Violation Notice.

Any request exceeding three (3) deferrals must be made by petition to City Council through the office of the City Clerk.

Resp [131 submitted,

David Bell
Director



cc: Furious Firm Holdings LLC, 112 Long Creek PKWY, Charlotte, N/c 28214
Andre Williams
,3 HT CLERK i-?iFlF: 2 53m Holdings LLC, 6659 Schaefer Dearbom, MI 48126

 

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

was k-on /'Tallc? 
2 SUITE .026

0.: Damon Din-sort. 
CHIEF cancer. 223$ 3132-2 32.86:? 3

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT AND GRANTS 

March 1. 2019

The Honorable Detroit City Council
City Clerk Office

200 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit MI 48226

RE: Request to Accept and Appropriate the FY 2019 State Planning and Research
Grant

The Michigan Department of Transportation has awarded the City of Detroit Department
of Public Works with the FY 2019 State Planning Research Grant for a total of
$500,000.00. The Detroit Transportation Corporation (DTC) will also contribute
$325.000.00 to the project through grant funds awarded by the Southeast Michigan
Council of Governments (SEMCDG). There is no match requirement. The total project
cost is $825.000.00.

The objective of the grant Is to support the City of Detroit's Citywide Transportation
Plan. The funding allotted to the department will be utilized to address key initiatives.
including Improving safety. supporting walking. biking. and transit. designing complete
streets. policy development. data collection. and education and citizen engagement.
This Is a reimbursement grant.

If approval is granted to accept and appropriate this funding. the appropriation number
is 20634.

I respectfully ask your approval to accept and appropriate funding in accordance with
the attached resolution.

Sincerely.
cage-s.

Ryan 
Director. Office of Development and Grants

CC:
Katerll Bounds. Deputy Director. Grants
Saulah Parker. Assistant Director. Grants

This Detroit Council Request has been approved by the Of?ce of the Budget.

m?cl Mia} Mu +9 Paschal-u 0.84mi. Ari-aw.? 939:)



Office of Development and Grants Clemson

 

 

RESOLUTION

Council Member

WHEREAS, the Department of Public Works Is requesting authorization to accept a grant of
reimbursement from the Michigan Department of Transportation. In the amount of $500.000.00. to
support the City of Detroit?s Citywide Transportation Plan: and

WEHEREAS. the Detroit Transportation Comcratlon (DTC) will also contribute $325.000.00 to the
project through grant funds awarded by the Southeast Michigan Council of Govemments
and

WHEREAS. the total project cost is $825.000.00. and there is no match requirement; and

WHEREAS. this request to the Detroit City Council has been approved by the Office of
the Budget: now

THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Director or Head of the Department is authorized to
execute the grant agreement on behalf of the City of Detroit. and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Budget Director la authorized to establish Appropriation
number 20634. In the amount of $825,000.00, for the FY 2019 State Planning Research Grant.

Page i sit

 

RICK SNYDER DEPARTIIENT OF TRANSPORTATION MARK VAN PORT FLEET
oovonnon mem moron
Dumber l4. loll
City ol?Deuolt
Depot-orient ol'Puhiic Works

Cuillin 
2 Woodwud Avenue. Suite 808
Detroit. Mi 48226

Door Me. Holley-Morton:



Enolorcd I: the orlm'nol contract Ittued between your amortization and the Department ol'Tt-onrportotion. Please tnlte
the time to road and understood this contract. il?litll contact meets with your approval. pious-e WW
and return checklist end lite contract noon to possible. Only one copy of title eontrlet I: being not to you for
signature. Upon in word you will receive on eleeo-enie tun for your files.- The original tinned content will on
neinlelned in Contact Service: Illa.

Plum do not dole the deeuutent. MDOT will title the document when It It ?l?ui?l. Title contntet II not
necttled until it too been styled by mum: Upon all ?nal approval: the contact will be tent to the
MDOT Director for execution.

 

Secure the monetary signettmo on the Ito-trout.

Include certi?ed The resolutioniouthorimtion should toenllieolly home the
omelols who ere euthanized to sign the eonuuet. The resolutioniouthorimlon must Ito submitted. even
though you may hove submitted one In the putt.

Return the eontroet end the oer-tilled reoqutIonIeuthorlnti-n to our attention in the lure-u of
Finance. Contract Set-vim Division el the uddrut below for MDOT execution. A scanned electronic
copy oflhe executed oontroet will be (awarded to your attention via email. Our direct address for the use of
on overnight outlier, should you noed it. II 415 W. Ottawu Sh. Looting MI 48933.

Public Act 53:! requires that payment: under this Contact be procetsod by electronic funds mitt:
The CONSULTANT II required to register to receive payments of EFT It SIGMA Vendor Sell?

Service W55) mulls 
you have any quenlone. please do not hotltute to contact me directly ill (511) 373-2395 or email me at


Sincerely.
Adminietmtor
Contact Services Division
Enclosure

VAR BUILIJIHG -F 0 80] 30050 . LANSING HCHIBNI tom
nitrogen not: 4317) 313-2090
LH-LAN-O (01111)

John Alexander
LaKisha Barclift, Esq.
M. Rory Bolger, AICP





Christopher Gulock, AICP

David Whitaker Esq. QC En; .

Director It? 0 It Derrick Headd
Irvin Corley, #3 Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Executive Policy Manager CITY COUNCIL fix; Klmani Jeffrey

3- A 

Ma'fce" 3- To?, LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION :25. 
Senior City Planner . I: amie Murphy
Janese Chapman 208 Coleman A Young Mumc1pal Center i333 Carolyn Nelson
Deputy Director Datmlt, MIChlgan 48226 Kim Newby

Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336

Analine Powers, 
Jennifer Reinhardt
Sabrina Shockley

Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. David Teeter
Tasha Cowen Theresa Thomas
Richard Drumb Underwood
George Etherldge Ashley A. Wilson
Deborah Goldstein

TO: Detroit City Council (.

FROM: David Whitaker, DirectorR .5
Legislative Policy Divisioh Staff

DATE: March 25, 2019
RE: Viaduct Ownership and Maintenance Responsibilities

The Legislative Policy Division was requested to provide a report regarding the
ownership and responsibility of viaducts throughout the City. After some investigation of this
issue, we find no clear cut answer. It depends specific ownership and any applicable agreements
related to the particular bridge that creates the Viaduct. According to City Engineering 
Department of Public Works, generally the structures that support the bridges, i.e. the walls of
the viaduct, belong to the various railroad companies. As such the City does not have the

authority to ?improve?, i.e. install lighting? on the structures without an agreement between the
City and the railroad company.

In some instances, there are pre?existing agreements that regulate maintenance and
easement issues. However, each particular bridge would have to be looked at on a case-by?case
basis to determine who is responsible for structural integrity, lighting, graffiti remove, debris
cleanup or upkeep of the berm.

If there are additional questions, please advise.

CONTRACT NO. 2019?0153

MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
CITY OF DETROIT
CONTRACT

This Contract is made and entered into this date of by and between
the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) and the City of Detroit (CITY). of 2
Woodward Avenue, Suite 808, Detroit, Michigan 48226, for the purpose of the CITY developing
a Citywide Transportation Plan.

Recitals:

MDOT may amend the Contract to re?ect the addition of funds for ?scal year 2020 as funding
becomes available and is obligated, at discretion;

The parties agree that:

THE CITY WILL:

1.

Perform the work set forth in Exhibit A, dated December 3, 2018, pages 1 through 7.
attached hereto and made a part hereof (PROJECT).

This Contract contains Federal Highway Administration Planning and
Research (SPR) For all contracts with funds that span multiple
MDOT ?scal years. the CITY may not proceed to work at the beginning of any MDOT
?scal year (October 1 through September 30) beginning the October 1 following the
effective date of the contract until after receiving written noti?cation From the MDOT
Project Manager that the CITY may proceed to work. Any work performed and/or costs
incurred by the CITY prior to its receipt of such MDOT noti?cation will not be eligible
for reimbursement.

Perform all PROJECT work in conformity with the MDOT's applicable standards.

During the performance of the PROJECT work, be responsible for any loss of or damage
to original documents belonging to MDOT while they are in the possession.
Restoration of lost or damaged original documents will be at the expense.

 

10.

Make such trips to confer with representatives of MDOT and the United States
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). as may be
necessary in the carrying out of the PROJECT set forth in this Contract.

Submit written progress reports to MDOT that outline the work accomplished
during the reporting period; identify any problems, real or anticipated, associated with the
conduct of the and identify any deviations ?'om the agreed upon work plan.

Prepare the graphics and text for all reports in a form suitable and acceptable to MDOT,
such suitability and acceptability to be determined by MDOT. This section is limited to
the format of the graphics and text. Nothing herein is to be construed as allowing MDOT
to declare as unsuitable or unacceptable any of the graphics or text because of the
conclusions arrived at by the CITY through analysis of data collected for this PROJECT.

As used throughout this Contract, the words ?satisfactory? and ?acceptance? are defined
to mean that the product is in the format required and is completely in accordance with
the contract requirements; however, it does not mean that the conclusions arrived at for
this PROJECT must be approved or agreed to by MDOT or the FHWA.

Prepare and submit to MDOT a written preliminary copy of the Final Project Report in
accordance with the work plan set forth in Exhibit A for its review and acceptance prior
to submission of the Final Project Report. MDOT will notify the CITY of its acceptance
or rejection of the Final Project Report within sixty (60) days of receipt of same from the
CITY.

Submit any proposed publication by the CITY or its subcontractors of the results of
PROJECT work for prior review and acceptance by MDOT. Such review and acceptance
is for own purposes and does not relieve the CITY from claims arising out of
such publication. Said proposed publication will include proper credit for all parties to
this Contract.

Permit representatives of MDOT, the and other authorized public agencies
interested in the PROJECT to have full access to the PROJECT during the 

performance.
With regard to audits and record-keeping:

a. The CITY will establish and maintain accurate records, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, of all expenses incurred for which
payment is sought or made under this Contract (RECORDS). Separate accounts
will be established and maintained for all costs incurred under this Contract.

b. Audit and Inapection. The CITY will comply with the Single Audit Act of 1984,
as amended, including, but not limited to. the Single Audit Amendments of 1996
(31 USC 7501?7507), and the requirements of 2 CFR Part 200, including Subpart

 

 - Audit Requirements, as amended, and the provisions of l951 PA MCL
247-660h. as applicable, that are in effect at the time of Contract award with
regard to audits.

i.

ii.



iv.

Agencies expending a total of Seven Hundred Fi?y Thousand Dollars
or more in federal funds from one or more funding sources
in their ?scal year must have a single audit conducted for that year. The
Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars threshold represents
all federal funding sources. This is in accordance with the Single Audit
Act of 1984, as amended. and 2 CFR Part 200 Subpart F, as amended.

Agencies expending less than Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($750, 000. 00)? federal funds must submit a letter to MDOT advising that
a single audit was not required. The letter will indicate the applicable
?scal year, the amount of federal funds spent, the name(s) of the MDOT
federal programs, and the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance
(CFDA) grant number(s). This information must be submitted to the
address in paragraph (iv) below.

Agencies must complete their single audits electronically through the
Federal Audit Clearinghouse website 
Users are instructed to create an online report ID and then to complete
Form SF- SAC prior to submitting their reporting packages. The audit will
be completed and submitted electronically within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the agency?s report(s) or within nine (9) months after the end of
the agency's ?scal year. whichever is earlier.

Agencies must also submit one (1) paper copy of the completed Form SF-
SAC and reporting package within the same time frame set forth in
paragraph above to the address(es) below:

Michigan Department of Transportation
Financial Operations Division

Budget, Outreach and Program Support Section
P. 0. Box 30050

Lansing, MI 48909

With a copy to:

Michigan Department of Transportation
Bureau of Transportation Planning
Statewide Transportation Planning Division
P.O. Box 30050

Lansing, MI 48909

 

ll.

v. Agencies will also comply with applicable state laws and regulations
relative to audit requirements.

vi. Agencies will not charge audit costs to federal programs that are
not in accordance with the aforementioned 2 CFR Part 200 requirements.

vii. All agencies are subject to the federally-required monitoring activities,
which may include limited scope reviews and other on?site monitoring.

The CFDA code for this CONTRACT is 20.205.

c. The CITY will maintain the RECORDS for at least three (3) years from the date

of final payment made by MDOT under this Contract. In the event of a dispute
with regard to the allowable expenses or any other issue under this Contract, the
CITY will thereafter continue to maintain the RECORDS at least until that
dispute has been ?nally decided and the time for all available challenges or
appeals of that decision has expired.

d. MDOT or its representative may inspect. copy, scan, or audit the RECORDS at
any reasonable time after giving reasonable notice.

e. If any part of the work is subcontracted, the CITY will assure compliance with
subsections and above for all subcontracted work.

If MDOT discloses its con?dential information to the CITY. the CITY will maintain such
information as con?dential. information provided by MDOT will be deemed con?dential
if it is marked con?dential or stated in writing to be con?dential. The above obligations
of con?dentiality will not apply to:

a. Information for which MDOT gives prior written permission for publication or
use.
b. Information that is required to be disclosed based on court order.

A violation of this provision will be considered a breach of this Contract, and MDOT
may terminate this Contract under the provisions of Section 21(b).

News releases pertaining to this Contract or the PROJECT to which it relates will not be
made without prior written approval from MDOT, and then only in accordance with
explicit instructions from MDOT. News releases made without approval will
be considered a breach of the Contract, and MDOT may terminate this Connect under the
provisions of Section 21(b).

 

12.

13.

The CITY will carry and maintain for the life of the PROJECT equipment, as a
minimum, insurance or self insurance. Insurance payment for loss or damage will be
made to MDOT. The CITY will also provide and maintain public liability and property
damage insurance. insuring as they may appear the interests of all parties to this Contract
against any and all claims that may arise out of the operation hereunder, as set
forth in Exhibit A.

Agencies receiving operating ?rnds will provide Workers? Compensation Insurance as
required by law.

Submit billings to MDOT for the PROJECT performed in accordance with the following:

a. The CITY agrees that the costs reported to MDOT for this Contract will represent
only those items that are properly chargeable in accordance with this Contract.
The CITY also certi?es that it has read the Contract terms and has made itself
aware of the applicable laws, regulations, and terms of this Contract that apply to
the reporting of costs incurred under the terms of this Contract.

b. The billings for the PROJECT will not be submitted more often than once per
month without prior written approval from MDOT. Each billing will be submitted
no more than sixty (60) days after the completion of the PROJECT for
that billing. All billings for PROJECT provided prior to September 30 of any year
must be received by MDOT in accordance with MDOT's annual ?scal year end
instructions or a signi?cant delay in payment may occur.

c. The ?nal billing for the PROJECT must be received within sixty (60) days of
completion of the PROJECT. MDOT may close the Contract after the sixty (60)
days have passed. Costs provided to MDOT after this sixty (60) day period may
be denied by MDOT.

MDOT WILL:

14.

15.

Furnish for the use of the CITY such MDOT standards and other information as may be
needed, unless speci?cally required to be provided by the CITY in a particular instance.

Pay the CITY for the PROJECT work after receipt of billings, subject to veri?cation of
progress. Compensation for the PROJECT work will be on the basis of actual costs and
will not exceed Five Hundred Thousand Dollars as set forth in Exhibit A.
The CITY will be responsible for all costs in excess of the funds shown above.

MDOT hands in this Contract made available through legislative appropriations are based
on projected revenue estimates. MDOT may reduce the amount of this Contract if the
revenue actually received is insuf?cient to support the under which this
Centract is made.

 

l6.



Determine that payment for the costs of the PROJECT work required and performed is in
accordance with the following:

e.

Direct Salary Costs: Actual labor costs of personnel performing the PROJECT
work. This cost will be based on the employees? actual hourly rates of pay and the
actual hours of performance on the PROJECT as supported by employee time and
earning records.

Other Direct Costs: Actual costs of materials that may be required hereunder but
that are not normally provided as part of the overhead of the CITY. All actual
costs will be supported by proper receipts and proofs of payment.

Overhead and Indirect Costs: A pro-rated portion of the actual overhead and
indirect costs incurred by the CITY during work. The amount of overhead
payment, including payroll overhead, will be calculated as applied rates to direct
labor costs, as set forth in Exhibit A. Overhead and indirect costs will include
those costs that, because of their incurrence for common or joint objectives. are
not readily subject to treatment as direct costs.

Subconsultant Costs: Actual costs of subconsultants performing PROJECT work
under this Contract.

Travel and Subsistence: Actual costs in accordance with and not to the
amounts set forth in the current State of Michigan Standardized Travel
Regulations. incorporated herein by reference.

Reimbursement for costs incurred is subject to the cost criteria set forth in 48
CFR, Federal Acquisition Regulations, Part 31.

The CITY will not be paid for costs arising from the correction of errors and
omissions attributable to the CITY.

Make payment to the CITY in accordance with the following:

a.

Progress payments may be made for reimbursement of amounts earned to date
upon receipt of a billing and the written progress report. Progress payments will
include direct salary costs, other direct costs, and calculated amounts for overhead
using applied overhead rates. as herein set forth. Progress payments will not be
made more than once a month.

Upon receipt by MDOT of the required documents and any other accompanying
information in a form satisfactory to MDOT, MDOT will process the payment
request if the CITY is complying with its obligations pursuant to the Contract.
Reimbursement of any costs pursuant to this section will not constitute a ?nal
determination by MDOT of the allowability of such costs and will not constitute a

 

 A

December 3. 2018
Cam A. Youeo Course
2 Ween-moo humus. Slur: Gil
Dena". Wanner ?22?
mime-mu 
Dnaamcvr or Fume Ilium nu) zit-1m

Mme-ion Dru-ea our

The City of Detroit seeks to develop a Citywide Transportation Plan (the Plan) that
provides the roadmap for not only how Detroiters get around. but how city streets
can continue to support the City's advancement This effort will be led by the
Department of Public Works, with support [tom the Planning and Development
Department, the Department of Transportation. the Municipal Paridng Department.
and the Mayor's Office. The process will be done in collaboration with state. county
and regional partners. The end deliverable of this process must serve as a living
guide toward future inh?astructure investment and transportation development
that: 1) has overarching principles of equiv, dignity, and transparency. 2) addresses
critical safety issues. 3] improves people's health and neighborhood air quality. 4)
increases the number of realistic mobility options, and 5] strengthens the
neighborhoods and advances economic opportunity through capital Investments.

The Transportation Plan will Implement ltey Strategies identified in the recently
published Strategic Transportation Plan and work from the framework created in
the Downtown Transportation Study; collect and analyze new and existing data to
inform and deveIOp transportation policy and programs; and engage the public in
the planning of Den-olt's Transportation initiatives. Consultants are being asked to
present the City with a scope ofworit that achieves the following:

Key initiatives include:

improve Safety Detroit?s annual vehicle crashes totaled 22.833 in
2015. an average of one crash for every 30 residents. The Plan will
guide investment and development priorities to achieve safer
infrastructure.

- Build safety analysis and toolkit for integration into routine
transportation capital projects. Le. Resurfacing Program

I identify and develop a metrics driven approach to prioritize
safety improvements for each type of travel mode. Including
walk. bike, vehicular, and transit.

- Develop protocols to prioritize traffic calming initiatives and
an implementation process for various types of roadway
classifications within the City of Deceit. including non-City
owned roadways in coordination with regional multi~modai
plans and networks.

a Support Walking. Biking and Transit Everyone deserves the right
to feel digni?ed and to expect excellence in the planning and
implementation of our mobility system. A resident or visitor should

Carnelian-our
Dal-humor arm Wm numeric:

Calm A Ym lion-emu. Coats
2 Woman-n ?was. Sum: ill
Darnell. HIUI-W 43236

nun mam -1'n'm

Ammo 

feel equally respected on Detroit streets no matter what form of
transportation they are using riding, driving. transit 

The challenge of mobility In Detroit goes beyond trai?c congestion.
Many negative societal outcomes are due the lack of ability to get to a
destination. The plan will identify ways to make it easier and more
affordable for Detroiters to get around. from improvements to
traditional ?xed route transit to integrating new solutions. such as
mobility hubs and mlcrotranslt.

Develop a series of policies, programs and potential funding
streams for creating safer streets for pedestrians. encouraging
walking, and creating places for people on Detroit's streets and
transit infrastructure.

identify gaps and borders in the pedestrian network and
recommend solutions [lack of sidewalk, crossing opportunities
etc).

Establish a set of guidelines for identifying intersections and
segments that need a crosswalk. hawk. signage and/or
pedestrian signal improvement and an implementation
methodology (scenarios in which treatments should be used).
Develop methodology for prioritizing sidewalk repair based on
pedestrian demand, density. ADA compliance and areas of
growth and special uses such as schools. libraries. etc.

Update and Incorporate the bicycle master plan into the Plan.
fully ?esh out the city?s bicycle lane standards, provide a
recommendation for an overall set of standards, and develop
an implementation stratey.

Update and incorporate the greenways plan into the Plan to
ensure connections to retail nodes and major destinations.
such as parks. and develop standards for various types of
greenways.

Recommend planning for transit network gaps through
coordination with DDOT. including crosstown connections and
?rst/ last mile gaps and identify solutions.

Develop standards for transit supportive Infrastructure. such
as ?oating bus islands. transit signal priority locations, and
enhance bus stops. Work with 0001? to plan infrastructure
improvements for their identi?ed 10 high frequency corridors.

crni on Dar-arr all] - 111"!"
Donation of fume ween mil scum
?memorial cov

hummus? Down

0

tumult Vanna Mal-Kilt?. Ccmta
Avenue. Stats on
Dale". Mutations acne

- include transit as a viable option for all projects and events In
the city. Using the Strategic Transportation Plan. Downtown
Transportation Study and other previous planning efforts.

- Develop a framework and strategy for commuter solutions to
job centers via travel demand management. park and rides.
shuttles etc.

- Review and provide recommendations for local mobility
connections around the Gordie Howe international Bridge.

Set expectations for bus stops and transit Infrastructure. to he
recognized by all city agencies.

Design Streets for Everyone Heart disease is the leading cause of
death for Detroit residents. Detroit's right of ways represent more
than 65 percent of the publicly held open space in the city. The Plan
will introduce more opportunities to walk and bike citywide,
increasing healthy choices for active commutes [complete streets)
and access to recreational activity. it will also improve neighborhood
air quality (speci?cally In freight movement. with Detroit being one of
the busiest trade crossings] and reduce our carbon footprint

Approximately 40 percent. of Detroit's residents live below the
poverty line and 26 percent of Detroiters lack access to a personally-
owned vehicle. The Plan will set targets to establish a policy of
greater access to economic opportunity by increasing travel options
and coordinating modes, empowering all residents with a viable
mobility system to increase better access to jobs. core services and
amenities.

II Develop and implements complete streets policy for adoption
within the City of Detroit.

- Develop guidelines for when a roadway should consider
various complete streets elements and implementation
methods.

. Establish streetscape design guidelines. including landscape
and roadway/non-roadway design guidelines by
roadway/functional/speed classi?cation forall roadways
within the City of Detroit.

. Establish policies and design standards for incorporating
stormwater best management practices into streets.

total?: A Yum MWML than
2 Woodmen literate. Sum 6i i
Doreen. Munster: ?236

(mar Dena-r 
or Worn rm) 
om

easiest-anew Bunion

0

Investigate stewardship models. potential funding mechanisms
and upfront and long-term costs.

- Develop piacemaitlng and design guidelines for the public right
of way. including plazas and other public spaces.

. Develop construction maintenance of traf?c requirements to
ensure access for vehicles. pedestrians and cyclists and
support local businesses

- Building from the Downtown Transportation Study. propose a
modal hierarchy for strategic corridors

- Compile strategies to improve railway crossings and viaducts for
all travelers.

Education infrastructure and policy changes will only take a plan so
far. Detroit seeks to educate enforcement agent and o?icers. residents
and visitors to fully understand that designing streets and systems to
include all modes is a public asset and not an attack on one speci?c
mode (Le. vehicular].

Develop an education and marketing strategy for the City
based on best practices In other cities and Detroit's unique
needs and establish a detailed roll out plan. cost estimates and
potential funding sources and partners.

- Develop policies. programs. and coo-each strategies for a
Safety Ambassador Program.

. Create an aggressive program to educate motorists on safe
driving around pedestrians, cyclists and transit stops. And
educate cyclists and pedestrians on how to properly use
infrastructure.

I Address the general cultural bias toward ?cars only" while
educating the public about other viable options.

Policy Development Deb-oiters expect openness and inclusiveness in
planning and implementation process. and the community
engagement process. The Plan 1will explain the recommendations that
will be proposed and give benchmarks for tracking progress and
implementation.

I Develop curbside policies for emerging micromobiilty
providers, delivery trucks. valet. residential parking permit,
on-street parking. new signage. etc.

I Investigate SEMCOG's fonnuia for ranking projects to qualify
for CMAQ funds and make recommendations based on best

tests.? A 't?wso Moment Ctr-rte
2 ?Wei-n Ame. 
Detour. Minnow ?lm

Cm or Ocular um lad-mt - 'rn??ll

Oceanic.? or rust-c Woe-ti om mm


Anuiuurunw Dis-mun

practice analysis of other MPO formula's to allow CMAQ funds
to support non-motorized projects.

- Develop clear standards for Development Review including
traf?c impact studies. curb cut permitting. sidewalk impacts
and maintenance.

- Develop preposed changes to the zoning laws to incorporate
bicycle] scooter parking and facilities In new and rehabbed
development as well as transit supportive infrastructure.

. Establish mode-shift goals for the City and benchmarks to
better track the data.

I Collaborate with MDOT and Wayne County Roads on ?Urban
Trunidine? standards. so that highways can function as
effective neighborhood streets.

Crash analysis of highest crash and fatality intersections and corridors
by jurisdiction City and County)

a Work with 0001' to collect. analyze and recommend service
improvement opportunities

a Establish outcome based metrics for neighborhood corridor projects.
a Corridor Health index. and how those metrics will be collected. and
protocols for onwgolng collection and analysis

Collect identi?ed transportation needs. including commuter statistics,
identi?ed through the neighborhood plans to create a city-wide
understanding of citizens concerns and needs and develop a survey to
help round out this date and establish repeatable qualitative metrics.
implement the survey and analyze the data to help inform the
development of the plan

Evaluate and make recommendations about what data sources the
city might purchase to achieve the various initiatives identi?ed in the
plan and purchase access to sources and establish protocols for their
use

. WWI: must be a plan that is developed for Detmiters and by
Detroiters. A considerable engagement effort is expected in which the
consultant team creatively engages neighborhoods in a way that educates all
parties.

Camus A Your?: MWMI. Cent ta
immune-o Avenue. Sure it I
Demon. Htcuw dues

Cm or amen mains-1m - ?m

omens-at or luau: Wanna om mam
stances-runner our

mistreated Dom-rm

Create a Community Engagement Road Map to explain the engagement
strategy earlyson In the process. as well as throughout the project.

0 Determine public engagement zones to ensure that there are touch points
all across the city.

Allow for remote engagement via digital input. including mobile input
outposts throughout the community.

0 Use creative ways to engage Detroitet?s and build consensus around the
the Plan. including digital engagement campaigns. mobile design centers.
hands-on works and walk-shops. surveys. bike rides. etc.

Develop and interactive website that is also accessible via mobile and
handheld devices

to Leverage Partnerships with non-pro?ts and CBO's

Mailings. fliers and postcards

Project management plan
Existing conditions analysis [qualitative and quantitative) that
summarizes existing bansportetion challenges and
opportunities in Detroit
0 Public Engagement Plan
a Development of goals. objectives. and principles
0 Set of recommendations that address all aspects of
transportation
Prioritization process/tool for implemetnatlon
0 Detailed implementation plan with respect to cost. speci?c
funding source. department owner. and timeline
to All graphics and maps
0 Website
0 Draft plan (one public facing section and one internal facing
?guide? for departmental action)
I All Chapters
- Funding. Maintenance. Benchmarking and
implementation Plan
- Education. Encouragement. Enforcement and Evaluation
Plan
0 Executive Summary
0 Final Report
I Format
I 8 11 landscape
I Printing

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN
The City of Detroit AND
Detroit Traneportatlon Corporation

Thia Memorandum of la entered Into by and between The Detroit
Traneportetlon Corporation located at 535 Gnawold Street. Detroit. MI 40220. and
THE CITY OF DETROIT. a Michigan municipal corporation acting through Ite Department of
Public Worke. located at 2 Woodward Avenue. Darwinism ("Sponacred Organization") In
order to cooperate and coordinate their reepective activitiea in order to provide for tiacal
eponacrehlp of the Project. ea deecribed herein. mo and the Bponeored Organization may
each be re?ned to heroin aa a "Party" or collectively no the ?Portion" to thia MOU. in
applicable.

RECITALS

Wheraae. DTO haa been awarded a grant (?Grant") in the amount of 3325.000 (?Grant
Fonda?) from C?Funder?) for the purpoee of developing the traneit portion of the
City'a Tranepcrtailon Maeter Plan which Project II intended to be undertaken. in
part. by the Sponacred Organization; and

Whareea. a copy of the application for and award of the Grant are attached hereto ae Exhibit
A: and

Whereea. the Sponeored Organization dealree DTC to carve an the ?ecel aponeor of the
Grant Funde for the Project: and

Whereas. DTO deairea to carve ea the decal aponeor of the Grant Funda for the Project and
Executive Committee or Board hae approved role ea tiacal aponacr in
accordance with Ite Procedurea: and

More". the Funder hea approved of role aa tlaoal aponecr of the Grant Funde tor the
Project;

NOW THEREFORE. DTO and the Sponeored Organization acknowledge the following


Section 1: Purpoae. The purpoae of thia MOU ie to the Partiee in coordinating their
aotlvitlea by providing a written memorandum of their lntantione ateted in good faith and with
ac much accuracy on poeelble. It to not the intent of the partlee that thia document ehouid
conatltute a contract or provide the baale tor a legal claim by any party. Thle MOU neither
nor euthorlzea the diepoeiticn or acceptance of any property or the expenditure or
receipt of any funda by either Party.

 

_City of Detroit

SCOTT R. BENSON it:

MEMORANDUM

TO: Charity Dean, Director, CRIO

FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3 f?g
CC: Hon. Roy McCalister, Chair, 10 Standing Committee

Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President
DATE: 26 March 2019
RE: LGBT BUSINESS CERTIFICATION

This of?ce has received a request from the Detroit Regional LGBT Chamber of
Commerce to support its initiatives around:

1. Economic development
2. Equality
3. Tourism

The request is for the City to collect data from business owners opening establishments in
Detroit to declare if the business is owned by a member of the LGBT community. This
data will allow the Detroit Regional LGBT Chamber of Commerce to work toward
identifying Detroit as a municipality that is friendly for members of the LGBT
community to visit and establish businesses.

Please provide your report if this is possible and what needs to happen to start collecting
this data on new businesses opening in Detroit by 19 April 2019. If you have any
questions do not hesitate to contact my of?ce at, 313-224?1198.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

 a? .
City of Detr01t
-- - COUNCILMAN SCOTT R. BENSON

 

MEMORANDUM
TO: Angelica Jones, Director, DDOT
Ron Brundidge, Director, DPW
FROM: Scott Benson, City Council District 3 
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
David Whitaker, Director, LPD
Jerrell Harris, Mobility
Fred Westbrook, President, ATU Local 26
Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce
VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, President, Detroit City Council
DATE: 25 March 2019
RE: DDOT BUS SHELTER REQUEST

The Dequindre Block Club is requesting DDOT install a bus shelter at the southwest
comer of Dequindre State Fair streets. Please report back to this of?ce if this request
can be accommodated. If not, please indicate what needs to happen to justify the location

of a bus shelter at this intersection?

Please respond to this request by 5 April 2019. Thank you in advance for your

consideration on this matter.

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave, Suite 1340 - Detroit. Michigan 48226

(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detroitmi.gov

