TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

4'24 

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL 8 
Pastor, Rev. Dr. Robyn Diane Moore

WHEREAS: Understanding God's call and purpose for her own life. The Rev. Dr. Robyn Diane Moore began her ministry with the
completion of a ten-month extensive training (2002) and ordination to the Hartford Memorial Baptist Church Diaconate Ministry. She was later
licensed and ordained to ministry both under the leadership of Reverend Dr. Charles Gilchrist Adams during October 2008/09. Her ministry
included an awe-inspiring ministerial internship under the guidance of Rev. Dr. DeeDee M. Coleman at Russell Street Missionary Baptist Church
in Detroit. MI. Rev. Moore served as Youtleoung Adult Minister and PulpitiWorship Liturgist. as well as one of 'a six-minister staff team' for six
years at Hartford Memorial Baptist Church supporting the senior pastor. Additionally. Rev. Moore has served as an interim pastor for First
Congregational UCC. Wyandotte. MI and provided many congregations with consulting work on church growth and new ministry development. On
February Rev. Moore was called to First Baptist Institutional Baptist Church in Detroit as the 13"1 and ?rst female pastor in its 101 years of

history. AND

WHEREAS: Reverend Dr. Robyn Diane Moore. also referred to sometimes as Rev. Robyn. is afforded many opportunities to being
committed. obedient and faithful to her ministry. The focus of her ministry is based on 1 Corinthians 13:4-8. and v5.13 where Paul teaches the
importance of love just as Christ loved us. Her ministry focuses on demonstrating love to all but particularly to the oppressed. those forgotten.
disenfranchised or voiceless. Moreover. she is passionate about sharing the gospel with those who feel disconnected or who are unaware of
God's true presence. Often gathering people of all ages in her home to encourage embracing the Gospel. Rev. Moore believes 'you must meet
peopie where they are. then nurture and guide them to see God's true purpose', AND

WHEREAS: Reverend Dr. Robyn Diane Moore. as a graduate of the Ecumenical Theological Seminary (ETS). holds a Master of Divinity
and Doctor of Ministry degree from this esteemed institution. Rev. Moore's passion for young adults led to her research and dissertation titled:
Broken Chains: Reconnecting Links of Young Adults to Church Worship and was successfully defended during March 2016. She was
employed with Xerox Corporation nearly twenty-nine years but has been led by the Holy Spirit to transition into full-time ministry. AND

WHEREAS: Reverend Dr. Robyn Diane Moore, inclusive of many af?liations is passionate about her work within the Interfaith
Communities including Coalition for Black and Jewish Unity. She is the Vice-President at Large for Congress of Christian Education for Michigan
Progressive Baptist Convention. On the Regional and National levels of Progressive National Baptist Convention. Rev. Moore is actively serving in
Christian Education and the Clergy Women's Division. Rev. Moore served on the American Baptist Churches of Michigan Regional Board as
formal Chairperson of Family Ministry Team and a current Board Member of the Detroit Baptist Union. Rev. Moore serves on the Board of
Directors for Hope for America. a non-pro?t that exposes youth to skilled trades through pre-apprenticeship programs. She supports young girls
and women as the Clergy Advisor on the Religious Relations Committee of Girl Scouts of Southeastern Michigan, African AmericanlJewish
Women Alliance and in the local community. Rev. Moore is a member and the Public Relations Chairperson of the Council of Baptist Pastors of
Detroit and Greater Vicinity. Rev. Moore has received numerous nominations and awards including the ETS Women in Leadership and Nominee

for Dean of the Chapel of Spelman College.

WHEREAS: Reverend Dr. Robyn Diane Moore, through pastoral care. enjoys helping others have clear communications with God by
cultivating. inspiring and encouraging others. She loves walking in the early morning hours where she can meditate. give praise. and pray to the
Almighty God On a personal note. Rev. Moore is passionate about her shoe shopping. ballroomlhustle dancing, and limited howling skills; but
most importantly spending time with her three millennial-age children, Alyson ii. and Alexis. as well as her ?rst grandchild. Jayce
Ramon. NOW. THEREFORE LET IT BE

RESOLVED: That on this 24lh day of March 2019 that Council Member Roy McCalister Jr.. and the entire Detroit City Council. joins with

the First Baptist Institutional Church Congregation. in celebrating the Installation of the 13m and 1st female Pastor in the church?s 101-
year history. May God bless Pastor, Rev. Dr. Robyn Diane Moore and the First Baptist Institutional Church Family with many successful

years in the service of our Lord.

 

 

 

 

MEMBER

March24. 2 !9

DATE

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

TL 

allDETROIT CITY COUNCIL

%gfz?zaazg?? Olaf?v? 8 a



In Memoriam

Mr. Charles ?Chuck? L. Brazelton
November 4, 1932 March 15, 2019

Mr. Charles ?Chuck? L. Brazelton age 86, was ushered into paradise by angels on Friday, March 15, 2019, at
Beaumont Hospital in Taylor, Michigan; and

Mr. Charles L. Brazelton was born in Nashville, Tennessee, to Harry and Fannie Brazelton on November 4, 1932.
He attended High School in Nashville and went on to graduate from Tennessee State University. Alter graduation,
Chuck heeded the call of his country and proudly served in the United States Army. After serving his country, Charles
came to Michigan and was employed by the United States Postal Service. He worked for the Post Office for over 35
years, before retiring as an Operations Manager on January 1, 1988; and 

Mr. Charles L. Brazelton met his one true love, Mary C. Lassie in 1964 and never separated. They made their union
of?cial on October 16, 1967, in Toledo, Ohio. They celebrated their ?fty-?rst wedding anniversary in October 2018;
and

Charles L. Brazelton loved the Lord, and was baptized at St. Luke African Methodist Episcopal Church in Nashville.
Upon arriving in Detroit, Michigan, Charles joined Ebenezer AMC Church. Later he and his bride became members
of the Hope United Methodist Church in South?eld.

Mr. Charles Brazelton was described as an avid sports fan which was an understatement. He was a lifelong student
of all sports. Not only did he play baseball, basketball, and football, but he was a little league baseball coach as well.
In his later years, he could be found ponti?cating on the games from the comfort of his reclining chair. Charles also
enjoyed a challenging game of Tournament Bridge and has many trophies to attest to his skills in the game. Charles
lived an amazing life and blessed more people than we will ever know, and

Mr. Charles L. Brazelton was proceeded in death by his parents and siblings: Thomas, Minnie Jean, Mary; Harry
Jr., William Edward, and Dorothy Ann. Left to cherish his memory are: his loving wife, Mary C. Brazelton; sisters,
Gwendolyn Brazelton, Beverly (Roderick) Townsend; brother George Brazelton; special niece and traveling buddy,
Jalynn Lassie: nieces and nephews, Samaki, Thalia, Montoya, Monique, Mia Larry, Tony, Ed Patricia Yvonne,
Bernadine, Robin, April, Deborah, Fran, Mercedes, Barbara Ann and Faye Grover Grey, Avril Lassie; brother-in-law,
Gary Lassie, and a host of cousins, family and ?'iends, NOW THEREFORE BE IT

City Council Member Roy McCalister, Jr. and The Detroit City Council join with family and friends as they
honor the life achievements of Mr. Charles L. Brazelton.



COUNCIL FMIDENT

 

 

 

 

 

    

- we MEMBER
March28, 019
DATE

 

g/ziaimnm?? gnaw

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:
WHEREAS:

WHEREAS:

RESOLVED:

   
  
 
 
 
 
   

i 

- 3'  

Err?3 on. MBE

  

 

LMEMB

I: .
co NCIL MBER

a It,

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

?lo

In Memoriam

Bishop Horace Jackson

February 15, 1949 March 22, 2019

On March 22nd, 2019 Bishop Horace L. Jackson better known as H.L. Jackson left from
labor to reward, and

Bishop Horace L. Jackson accepted his call to ministry in 1975 and became the
assistant pastor of The Church of God in Unity in 1976, and

During Bishop H. L. Jackson ?s life in the earth, he was known as a beloved husband for
over 50 years, to Sylvia Jackson who proceeded him from Labor to reward. Together they
birthed five beautiful children and were blessed with four more to call their own, and

Bishop H. L. Jackson was a man of Faith, Power and of the Word, and

Bishop H. L. Jackson was a father, businessman, and community leader known as a
champion for the forgotten and those who had no help. Many he took under his wing
offering life skill classes, employment, drug rehabilitation, housing assistance and
transportation allowing them to become functional and responsible homeowners, and

Now, we Celebrate the Life, the Legacy and the Love of Bishop Horace L. Jackson.
We salute his Memory, his Message and his Mission, NOW THEREFORE BE IT

That Council Member Roy McCalister Jr., and The Detroit City Council join in with family
and friends in letting it be known from this day and days fonrvard that Bishop Horace L.
Jackson is resting from his labor; as Revelations 14:13 says; Then I heard a voice from
heaven saying to me, ?Write: ?Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now
on.? ?Yes,? says the Spirit, ?that they may rest from their labors, and their works
follow them.? Revelation 14:13 (NKJV). Well done good and faithful servant. Bishop
Horace L. Jackson shall be missed but never forgotten.

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

March 28, 219
DATE

 

