MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday, March 21st, 2019
Location: Belle Isle Nature Center
Meeting called to order at 9:03 a.m.

EXCUSED ABSENCES
Quorum established
Brad Dick

Motioned by: Bud Denker
Seconded by: Michael Curis

PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Chair Michele Hodges
Rev. Lonnie Peek
Michael Curis
Sommer Woods
Bryan Barnhill
Bud Denker

DNR STAFF PRESENT
Scott Pratt
Karis Floyd
Darlisa Rickman

REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to Approve Minutes for December 20, 2018
Motioned by: Bud Denker
Seconded by: Michael Curis
Motion to Approve Minutes for January 17, 2019
Motioned by: Bud Denker
Seconded by: Michael Curis
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – March 21, 2019
1

 General Updates
Scott Pratt
•
•
•
•

Reiterated that as formerly stated the Auto Show is not coming to Belle Isle.
There has been a halt to the MDOT mobility study that was being conducted on the island.
Looking forward to the State Park Centennial Celebration.
This year Milliken Harbor is opening up early.

Presentation
Ami VanAntwerp
State Park Centennial Celebrating all 103 parks in the state park system more information is
available at: www.michigan.gov/stateparks100

DNR Law Enforcement Update
Lt. Joe Molnar
Lt. Johnson MSP
• Higher attendance as the weather is warming up.
• Typical issues such as speeding.
• Arrest of one drunk driver.
• Would like to acknowledge Detroit Harbormaster for their quick response to emergencies.
Lonnie Peek: How many island closures were there last year?
Joe Molnar: The island was still open to foot and biking traffic but there were 8 vehicular traffic
closures. There are only 3500 parking spaces vs. there sometimes being upward of 15-20k
vehicles coming on a day so that causes congestive issues.
Bryan Barnhill: How are we addressing mobility issues? Like bikeshare stations and Escooters?
Scott Pratt: MDOT is providing a mobility study the DNR has allocated funds for this study to
take place.
Bryan Barnhill: Do we allow E-scooters on the island?
Mike Terrell: E-scooters are illegal in all state parks.
Bill: In regard to the mobility study this is a partnership where DNR is more in the lead,
currently we are in the process of seeing if we can use US DOT transportation funds on this.
This is not our normal research funding project.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – March 21, 2019
2

 Park Operations Update
Karis Floyd
• The positions to be posted for the State of Michigan consist of 1 General Office Assistant
for the events office; 3 ranger positions, 2 will be seasonal and the other will be a fulltime
Lead Ranger position.
• Doing spring cleaning prepping to begin opening buildings for the season.
• Starting to hire our STWs for the summer season; no driver’s license required.
• We now have recycling containers placed around the island so feel free to put your
recyclables into the containers.
Bryan Barnhill: What are the positions’ pay ranges?
Karis Floyd: For the Summer Temporary Workers pay begins at $9.45 an hour. The rangers
starting pay rate is about $18 dollars and the Lead ranger starts at about $23 dollars an hour. The
ranger positions we have are all entry level, so it is a teaching and mentoring kind of position.
The Lead ranger position requires experience as that person will work directly under the
Supervisor, so they have to be aware of things that require attention out in the park. All 3 of the
Ranger positions are commissioned, requiring attending our Law Academy. We are basically
peace officers.
Bryan Barnhill: Are there restrictions for people who may have a criminal background?
Karis Floyd: There is a background check that is required, and you have to have a clean
background due to the officer aspect of the position.
Sommer Woods: Is there a drug test required? Are there agricultural and internship
opportunities available?
Karis Floyd: Yes, there is a drug test required for all positions. Yes, we will have a program
this summer that ties into the agricultural realm as well as a paid internship opportunity that will
be coming up soon.
Michael Terrell: The Ranger is a unique and all-encompassing job; they do a variety of things
that usually multiple people would be hired to do. They are the police, fire department,
mechanic, EMS, plumber, carpenter, and electrician; a “jack of all trades.”
Lonnie Peek: What is your outreach here in the city? Did you make your hiring quota last year?
Karis Floyd: We have several different outreach programs in the city from the Cadets to the
ministry. Unfortunately we did not get the staffing last year due to the pay rate being a bit lower.
Scott Pratt: To offset that our pay is a bit lower, we do offer 40-hour work weeks for the entire
summer.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – March 21, 2019
3

 Sommer Woods: What is the duration of the employment?
Michael Terrell: 1040 hours which is 6 months.
Lonnie Peek: Have you made direct contact with DPS? That could be a resource.
Karis Floyd: No, other than the police cadet program we have not.
Bryan Barnhill: I will do an initial follow up with you and put you in contact with some
schools.
Karis Floyd: DTE is onsite doing the conversion of public lighting and they are currently in the
first phase so that is the construction you may witness along Central. The second phase will be
them hooking up the power.
Bud Denker: All that wiring will be underground?
Karis Floyd: Correct.

Infrastructure Updates
Amanda Treadwell
(See attached)

Outreach and Upcoming Events

Darlisa Rickman
• We have moved into our new office and we are settling in.
• Currently we have 451 events.
• Monday, April 1st the books will open for facility rentals for the year of 2020. We begin
taking applications at 12 a.m. and take them in the order in which they are received.
• Park capacity is an issue.
• Sunday, March 31st is the Wedding Vendor Open House at the Belle Isle Casino. You must
be registered to attend from 3 p.m. - 5 p.m.
• April 27th the BIC/DNR clean up will take place. Registration starts at 8 a.m.
• Monday, April 22nd at 12 a.m. the Grand Prix will begin their initial load in.
Lonnie Peek: Are the shelters already rented out? From year to year is there a waiting list?
Darlisa Rickman: During peak season in most cases every shelter is already rented out. And we
do not keep a waiting list because with the number of calls that would require, it would be
difficult to manage.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – March 21, 2019
4

 Belle Isle Conservancy Update

Chair Michelle Hodges
• Will be honoring volunteers the week of April 7th - 13th which is National Volunteer Week.
• April 14th MSU Science Festival.
• Daffodil Luncheon Day April 17th at the Yacht Club.
• Frederick Law Olmstead’s Birthday is on April 26th.
• April 27th is the Spring Clean Up.
• April 27th is also the day we host Spring into Nature which is a 5k.
• The Koi Festival is May 4th.
• Keep Belle Isle Beautiful May 18th and June 29th.
• The Grand Premier is on May 31st.
• Deeper Dive June 27th featuring the Cuban Gar.
• Metro Detroit Youth Day July 10th.
• Kite fest is July 14th.
• Polish the Jewel is October 10th.
• We were able to welcome MSU students in regard to their ideas for Belle Isle.
• We are hiring an Aquarist, a volunteer coordinator, education specialist and an events
associate.
• Clean up on June 29th following the fireworks.

PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Kent Gallagher

Does not agree with a boating launch being put on Belle Isle.

Skip Davis

Opposes the Grand Prix and strongly feels it is in direct conflict with the DNR’s
mission statement.

Khalilah Turner

Interested in vendor opportunities on the island.

Donald Green

Feels that the concrete paddock used for the Grand Prix was a needless
destruction of green space on the park. The Grand Prix continues to be a
destructive presence on Belle Isle and finds the number of visitors purported to
visit the island questionable.

Angela Lugo Thomas Against the Grand Prix and Auto Show being on Belle Isle. Would like to know
how is the Piet Oudolf Garden going to be enjoyed if it is surrounded by the
racetrack from the Grand Prix? Does the Ralph Wilson foundation ask for
anything in return for their generous donations? What steps have been taken
towards making Belle Isle independent of the Grand Prix funding?
Michael Betzold

The Oudolf Garden and the Grand Prix cannot co-exist on Belle Isle.

Lucille Nawara

Does not want the Auto Show to extend itself onto Belle Isle Park. Also feels that
alternative ways should be explored as far as traffic on Belle Isle.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – March 21, 2019
5

 A. Gira

As a former health inspector was shocked to witness Grand Prix employees
dumping oil and food waste into the trees and in the port-a-johns and it’s a big
concern. How will that be addressed?

COMMITTEE MEMBER ITEMS
Bud Denker: Would like to thank the Belle Isle team spearheaded by Michael Terrell and Karis Floyd
and would like to personally comment that the Ralph Wilson Foundation has never asked for anything in
return for their charitable donations.
Rev. Lonnie Peek: Would like to thank the DNR staff for all of their hard work.
Sommer Woods: Would like to advocate for DarLisa Rickman to get some help in the Special Events
Office and also promote the Agriculture programming.
Michelle Hodges: The Ralph G. Wilson Foundation has such integrity and we are thankful to have their
help. They are very inspiring and responsible stewards that have a meaningful impact and we are
appreciative of their partnership but to be clear, they have never received any perks or kickbacks for
donating to Belle Isle Park.
Motion to Adjourn:
Moved by: Bud Denker
Seconded by: Michael Curis
Meeting concluded: 10:57 a.m.
NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
February 21st, 2019
Nature Center
Belle Isle Park
Detroit, MI 48207
9:00 a.m. – 11:00 am.

Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – March 21, 2019
6

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

March 21, 2019

BELLE ISLE PARK
INFRASTRUCTURE UPDATE

Internal Affairs Building

James Scott Memorial Fountain

DNR is now scheduled to move into the new
Headquarters in March and anticipated to be in
the new Office by March 18th.

$150,000 of the $400,000 raised at the 2018
Grand Prixmiere event for Fountain repairs
will fund masonry and water proofing repairs
to the fountain, cascades and concrete weir
floor.

New Belle Isle Park Headquarters

The new building administration address is:
Belle Isle Park Administration
99 Pleasure Drive
Detroit, Michigan 48207
Due to office bids exceeding the estimated
budget the office and site/garage work will be
phased.
Phase 2, Garage Completion is scheduled to
take place March and April. The construction
period is 60 days.
The consultant is will provide draft site design
by March 22nd. Construction is scheduled for
May/June. Construction period is estimated at
60 days.
Belle Ilse Advisory Commit

Masonry Repairs

The DNR, DTMB, Robert Carpenter and
structural and architecture consultants met
at the fountain Monday, February 11th to
review the scope of repairs needed to
ensure the fountain is stabilized and basins
are watertight.
The WTA, the consultant concurrently
working on the Fountain ADA accessible
walk, will prepare contract specifications and
a cost estimate for the most critical masonry
repairs to stabilize the fountain.

1

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

BELLE ISLE TRAILS

March 21, 2019

James Scott Memorial Fountain
ADA Accessible Walk

IRON BELLE TRAILHEAD
& IRON BELL LOOP TRAIL
The DNR and BIC are
reviewing map and
interpretive panels for
Trailhead kiosks and trail
wayfinding signs.
Funding for Phase 1 Trail
and Phase 2 Trailhead
Construction has been
reviewed. It is now
anticipated that funding will
be available in Spring 2019.
Bid Documents for phase 1
of trail work anticipated to
be advertised in 2019.
This would provide for a
summer bidding and fall
2019 construction start.

The marble cutting is complete. WCI will be install marble
in spring, when temperatures provide suitable conditions
for masonry work. Masonry work anticipated to take
approximately 3 weeks.

BEFORE:

DNR will bid these two
projects out as one bid
package.
Phase 2 for the Trailhead
will include - The restroom
building, plaza area and
amenities.
Phase 1 for the Trail
construction estimates
propose the trail to start at
the Iron Belle Trailhead and
continue along the north
side of the island past the
beach area. The DNR,
DTMB and consultants are
reviewing cost saving
options.

AFTER:

2

 March 21, 2019

PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory Repairs
Progress update:
•

Revised Work Schedule: Additional scope of
work approved. New completion date in
contract schedule is July 9th, 2019.

•

Public Access Schedule:
At this time the DNR will not open the
conservatory for public access on the
weekends between now and the end of April.
The current public access schedule has been
determined by the ongoing abatement,
cleaning, and testing required to open the
dome to the public each weekend. Due to the
condition of the trusses now being replaced
additional abatement and cleaning is required
that does not allow the contractor to stay on
schedule.
The status of air quality testing and feasibility
to open the conservatory on the weekends will
be reviewed again at the end of April.
Ideal has agreed to accommodate DNR’s
request to open the conservatory for Easter
week. Proposed dates are April 20th-21st and
27th-28th. Ideal to coordinate air and wipe
sample testing to confirm the dome may be
open for Easter.
This revised schedule was confirmed to the
public in a press release on March 4th.

•

Work Progress:
A. 12 of the 20 columns have now been
replaced.
B. The current schedule has two columns
being replaced every two weeks.

Column 1 Removed

C. All truss columns are anticipated to be
replaced by the end of April per the
construction schedule. Following the
replacement of the columns, the upper
truss column work and gutter work will be
completed.
3

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

March 21, 2019

Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory Repairs
Field Report Photos, March 8th, 2019

4

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

March 21, 2019

Belle Isle Aquarium and Anna Scripps Whitcomb Conservatory
THE FOLLOWING PROJECTS FUNDED BY THE WILLIAM DAVISON FOUNDATION ARE UNDERWAY

1. Belle Isle Aquarium and Conservatory Drainage Study
• Contractor will begin work after week of 40-degree weather. Anticipated work starts
week of March 18th.
2. Belle Isle Aquarium Geothermal System Feasibility Assessment
• Recommendation for Geothermal system will be provided in report in April.
• DNR will schedule meeting with DTE and engineering consultants to review
power upgrade to Belle Isle and coordinate future power needs of facility as
needed.
3. Cost Comparison Evaluation of the original1904 Conservatory Design vs. the current
1950 design to guide future improvements of the Conservatory glazing design and
vestibule renovation
• Final report to be submitted to DNR and BIC by the end of March.
4. Aquatic life support system evaluation
- Final report will be submitted to the DNR and BIC by the end of March.

5

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

March 21, 2019

The Detroit River

Boating Access Study
• DNR and DTMB have
reviewed the latest draft
assessment submitted by OHM
Advisors. OHM will provide final
draft for DNR review April 8th.
• Draft Report will be shared
with City of Detroit GSD for
review when completed.
PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS

Lake Okonoka Habitat Restoration
- Friends of The Detroit River
•
•

Construction has begun on the Lakeside Drive Bridge.
Construction Permits for the Strand culvert will require additional revisions to submitted
plans. MDOT currently providing review comments on the Strand Culvert submittal.

•

At the MDOT facilitated pre-construction meeting last week for pouring concrete,
OHM gave Contractor approval to commence with miscellaneous work at the box
culver including permanent sheeting across the front of the concrete aprons and
storm sewer structures and pipes that connect to the box culvert.
The south sheeting (River side) was installed and backfilled until the full excavation
of the culvert can commence.

•

6

 March 21, 2019

PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Cont’d.
Lake Okonoka Habitat Restoration
- Friends of The Detroit River

Channel Side of Abutment B following Form Removal.
Tremie Concrete and Permanent Sheeting Shown at
Bottom of Image.

Crew Welding and Driving 6 Remaining Piles for
Abutment A. Depths are Slightly Shallower that
Abutment B.

East wingwall of Abutment B Following Form Removal.
Granular Backfill Underway. Note Bump-Outs in Footing to
Achieve Cover Over Steel Piles. Orange Lines on Concrete
Represent Fill Lines prior to Compaction.

Permanent Sheeting Across Front of Lake Side Box Culvert
Apron Being Surveyed and Installed. Note 2x4 and Steel
Pile on Right Side of Image is Capped and Bulk Headed.

7

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

March 21, 2019

PARTNER COORDINATED PROJECTS, Cont’d.
Belle Isle Boat House – Friends of Detroit Rowing (FODR)
Physical Assessment and Facility Master Plan
•

The DNR will provide $175,000 to match funds raised by the FODR to assess the current
condition of the building and site.

•

The Belle Isle Boathouse Master Plan Committee (FODR, BIC and DNR staff) selected 4
consultants from the 13 RFQ’s submitted. Three firms have been invited for interviews.

•

The successful consultant is expected to have a contract in place by late spring 2019.

BIC - Belle Isle Beach Revitalization
•
•
•

Quinn Evans, BIC and DNR staff met to review the 90% draft March 12th.
Assessment addresses utility improvements, waterproofing and increasing fixture count for
men’s and woman’s restrooms.
Quinn Evans will finalize draft and incorporate results of water mainline pressure test in April.

McArthur Bridge Maintenance
Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT)
•
•

NO UPDATE/ Construction team has not remobilized
Schedule is dependent upon DTE gas repairs and removal of temporary Gas line

DTE Boring – Electric Upgrade
1. Current schedule is to complete major activities by 2nd week of February.
2. Restoration of work area is scheduled for April.

DTE – Electric
1. DTE will install underground conduit, transformers and stations around island in 2019. DTE
and DNR have coordinated utility layout and work schedule. Work has already begun on
Central Ave and is anticipated to continue through October 2019.
2. DTE will provide new service connections to facilities next in 2020.

8

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

March 21, 2019

DTE – Gas
DTE Energy’s Scope of Work will include reestablishment of a permanent natural gas connection
between Belle Isle and the Main land Gas system, due to the previous line being deemed unfit to
continue operation. The new main will replace the temporary main currently running on the MacArthur
Bridge. The temporary main is currently blocking parts of E. Grand Blvd. from E. Jefferson Ave.
across MacArthur Bridge to Belle Isle. The temporary main being above grade is not long-term
solution and replacing it is a top priority. Work will begin March 25th and is expected to take
approximately 5 weeks to complete boring, tie-ins and site clean-up.

Oudolf Garden Detroit - Piet Oudolf Garden –
Insite Design is coordinating with Piet Oudolf to complete the site design and
facilitate permits and reviews required for garden construction.
Insite Design has submitted site plans to DNR for review.
The site construction bid package advertised for bidding in February and bids were
scheduled to be due in March. Site Construction is expected to begin in mid-June
2019. Irrigation and planting are scheduled for fall, 2019. The second phase of
planting is anticipated for spring 2020.
The DNR will review planting plans when plant selection is finalized.

North Shoreline fishing:
•
•

Project team met to review 50% plans.
Construction anticipated for Fall 2019.

(SAW) Stormwater, Asset Management, and Wastewater- DNR reviewing feasibility to coordinate the
stormwater assessment with the water mainline assessment to be funded by GSD. Both DNR and
GSD are working with DWSD on the scope of water and stormwater/sewer assessments.

Athletic Complex Handball Courts• Architect’s and structural engineer review recommend that the roofs of the handball courts be
removed. The system has a faulty design in the gutter and drainage design and the extensive
structural roof repairs needed are predicted to be required again in the future.
• Project team will review replacing roof with a metal mesh sheet material.
• Architect has submitted the mesh
Lake Okonoka Shelter and Playground Improvements –
•
•

Contractor has been providing submittal for review prior to construction
Construction will begin in Spring 2018 and be complete by the end of June.

9

 PARKS AND RECREATION DIVISION

March 21, 2019

FY 2019 NEW PROJECTS
1. Engineering, Athletic Shelter Roof Replacement
2. Construction, Flynn Pavilion Roof Repairs
3. Engineering, Maintenance and Operations barn and site improvements

10

 