RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE CITY OF DETROIT

 

500 WOODWARD AVE STE 3000 DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-5493

 

PHONE 313-224'3362 (TOLL FREE 800-339-8344 FAX 313-224-9194

MINUTES
Meeting No. 20

Meeting of the General Retirement System Investment Committee
DECEMBER 5, 2016

 

A meeting of the Investment Committee of the General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit was held on Monday, December 5, 2016, at the Retirement System?s office at
Ally Detroit Center, 500 Woodward Suite 3000; Detroit, Michigan. Ken Whipple, Chair,
called the meeting to order at 12:00 pm. A quorum was present.

ROLL CALL:

Attendance was taken by the Recording Secretary with the following Committee
Members present: Ken Whipple, (Chair), David Sowerby (Vice Chair), Doris Ewing
(Secretary), June Nickleberry, Kerrie L. Vanden Bosch, Robert Rietz and Thomas
Sheehan.

Others Present: A. Thomas (Executive Director), Ryan Bigelow (Chief
Investment Of?cer), Michael Krushena (Investment Officer), Michael VanOverbeke
(General Counsel VanOverbeke, Michaud and Timmony, P. C.). LaMonica Arrington-
Cabean (Manager II), Kristin Finney~Cooke and Kevin Leonard, (Investment
Consultants - NEPC).

Visitors Present: Ronald L. Rose, Executive Director, State of Michigan Department of
Treasury of the Financial Review CommissionlCity of Detroit. John Naglick, City of
Detroit Finance Director.

APPROVAL OF AGENDA

Motion #16-20-01: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve the Agenda as presented.
Doris Ewing seconded. Motion passed.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion #16-20-02: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve the Minutes of Meeting No.
019, held on Monday, October 17, 2016. Robert Rietz seconded. Motion passed.

 

Minutes - GRS lC Mtg.
Meeting No.20
December 5, 2016

PRESENTATIONS:
Cheiron w/John Naqlick

Representatives of Cheiron, Gene Kalwarski and Mike Noble, appeared before the
investment Committee to give a presentation of the Retirement Systems assessment of
the system's funding method and how Cheiron can develop a funding model starting
with fiscal year 2018.

David Sowerby joined the [0 Meeting at 12:06 pm.

Presentation materials were provided.

~Concludes Presentation~

Gabriel Roeder Smith Company

Representatives Judith Kermans, Ken Alberts and David Kausch appeared before the
Investment Committee to discuss the GASB No. 67 Reports for Components II and
actuarial assumptions of determining funding level of the Retirement System.

Presentation materials were provided.

Motion #16-20-03: Robert Rietz moved to accept the report and presentation at
today's meeting of December 5, 2016 of the GASB No. 67 Plan Reporting and
Accounting Schedules of Component ll, ending June 30, 2016. Thomas Sheehan
seconded. Motion passed.

June Nickleberry joined the [0 Meeting at 1:30 pm.

Motion #16-20-04: Robert Rietz moved to accept the report and presentation at
today's meeting of December 5, 2016 of the GASB No. 67 Plan Reporting and
Accounting Schedules of Component l, ending June 30, 2016. Thomas Sheehan
seconded. Motion passed.

 

 

 

Minutes - GRS lC Mtg.
Meeting No. 20
December 5, 2016

Re: Adoption of Actuarial Assumptions for purposes of determining funding level and
mandatory employee contributions for Component of the Retirement Svstem

Resolution Moved Bv: Robert Rietz Supported By: David Sowerbv

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit is vested with the authority and fiduciary responsibility for the administration,
management, and operation of the Retirement System, and

WHEREAS, the provisions of the plan are subject to the applicable provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code, applicable state law, the applicable charter and ordinance
provisions of the City of Detroit and the Combined Plan for the General Retirement
System, and

WHEREAS, Section 9.5 of the Combined Plan titled ?Fiscal Responsibility: Increased
Funding Obligations and Bene?t Reductions,? provides generally that to ?safeguard the
long?term actuarial and financial integrity of the Retirement System? in the event the
funding level of Component of the Retirement System projected over a five-year period
falls below specified targets, the Board is required to take established remedial actions,
and

WHEREAS, Section 95(3) further provides that ?the actuarial accrued liability of
Component I shall be calculated by the Plan?s Actuary utilizing an interest rate
assumption of six and three-quarters percent and other reasonable
assumptions as directed by the Board upon the recommendation of the Investment
Committee? (emphasis added), and

WHEREAS, the Retirement System?s actuary, Gabriel Roeder Smith Company, in its
initial June 30, 2014 Annual Actuarial Valuation of Component I, has raised certain
questions and requested clarificationlconfirmation from the Board and the Retirement
System?s Investment Committee with respect to the assumptions to be utilized for the
implementation of Section 9.5 and performance of the required five-year projection, and

WHEREAS, the Board has discussed this matter amongst the Board members, and
with its Actuary and General Counsel; THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that upon recommendation of the Retirement System?s investment
Committee, the following guidelines are hereby adopted by the Board and shall be
utilized by the actuary in completing the five-year projections as required in Section 9.5
of the Combined Plan:

1. The five-year projections should be based on the general valuation assumptions
as previously adopted by the Board inflation, mortality, retirement,
withdrawal, etc.).

 

 

Minutes - GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 20
December 5, 2016

2.

Section 95(1) provides that Variable Pension improvement Factor 
benefits will only be granted in the event the plan is projected to be over 100%
funded. It is the considered opinion of the Board that the mandatory employee
contributions as set forth in the plan based upon the five-year proiections
required by Section 9.5 are intended to fund base benefits in the normal course

 

and not VPIF benefits. Accordingly, it is the funding policy of the Board to not
include any projected future VPIF benefits in the five-year proiection calculations.
However, in the future and to the extent that VPIF benefits have been granted to
retirees at the time of the five-year projection, that Actuary shall assume
continuation of those previously granted VPIF benefits except as otherwise
provided in Section 95(2) of the Combined Plan. For purposes of completing the
five-year proiection in any given year. an initial proiection is to be completed
demonstrating the effect of an award of the VPIF benefit to qualified retirees in
the following Plan Year. If the Plan continues to be funded at a level greater than
100%. the VPIF may be awarded by the Board and IC in accordance with the
Plan provisions. In the event the funding level in the initial proiection is less than
100%. a second proiection shall be performed to verify if any of the remedial
measures required under Section 9.5 are necessary.

Transition Costs should not include an assumption of future VPIF benefits.
Since there is a separate funding source established in the Combined Plan for
payment of Transition costs through 2023 [Section Transition Costs
should be excluded from the Section 9.5 tests until fiscal year 2024. The
Transition Costs shall be determined as of July 1, 2014 (without an assumption
for payment of future VPIF benefits and financing of the Transition costs shall be
calculated based upon a level dollar amortization of the Initial Transition Cost
over a 9-year fixed amortization period and the Retirement System?s investment
Return Assumption of 6.75%.

Component ll ASF balances are assumed to be withdrawn as a level dollar
amount over the next 10 years, however voluntary employee contributions into
the Component Annuity Savings Fund shall be assumed to continue at the
historical levels as previously contributed to the Component ll ASF. For
Transition Funding purposes, an appropriate arbitrage of the difference between
the assumed rate of investment return of 6.75% and the maximum interest rate
that can be credited to the ASF Accounts of 5.25% should be used for both the
Component and Component ll ASF Accounts.

The Component assets shall include the Rate Stabilization Fund to the extent
the plan is less than 100% funded. -

The Annual Actuarial Valuation for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2015 shall
generate the first five~year projection. Upon receipt of the June 30, 2015
valuation, a determination shall be made whether any remedial action is required.
In the event remedial action is required, such remedial action shall be effective
July 1, 2017 [Section 

 

 

Minutes GRS iC Mtg.
Meeting No. 20
December 5, 2016

7. The funding value of plan assets for purposes of Section 9.5 testing of the
Component I plan funding level would otherwise be based upon a three (3) year
smoothing method wherein the assumed investment income of 6.75% will be
recognized fully each year and the differences between actual and assumed
investment income shall be phased in over a closed three (3) year period. The
Actuary has opined that since the proiection period is for a five (5) year period.
the use of a three (3) year smoothing period is of no consequence and would
result in an asset value that is not materially different than proiecting the current
market value of assets out five (5) years at the assumed rate of return of 6.75%.
According the proiection shall utilize the market value of the portfolio using the
6.75% rate of return. [Section 

8. The forgoing assumptions shall be utilized for both the 100% projection test in
Section 95(1) and the 80% projection test in Section 95(2).

9. The required actions set for in Section 95(2). if any. shall be reflected in the
proiections by the addition of each item in the order listed. until the appropriate
threshold is reached. Illustrated as follows:

i. Perform the first proiection ignoring all the 9.5(2) actions. if
the proiected funded status was less than 80%. then the
Actuary is to re?perform the proiection reflecting the actton in
If the proiection results in a funding level that is still
below 80%. the proiection is to be re-Derformed reflecting the
action in and so on. Once the 80% threshold is met.
such proiection would reflect the required actions under
Section 95(2) that are to be taken.

FURTHER RESOLVED, that a copy of this resolution be provided to the GRS
Investment Committee with a request that the Committee make formal recommendation
to the Board of the adoption of the assumptions and guidelines provided herein, and

FURTHER RESOLVED, that a copy of this resolution be maintained in the Retirement
System records, and a copy be provided to the Board's Actuary and Auditor.

Yeas: Ewing, Nickleberry, Rietz, Sheehan, Sowerby, Vanden Bosch, Whipple 7

Nays: None

~Concludes Presentation~

RECESS

 

Minutes GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No.20
December 5, 2016

The Committee recessed at 2:20 p.m. and reconvened at 2:30 p.m.

PRESENTATION:

NEPC

The Consultants of NEPC, Kristen Finney?Cooke and Kevin Leonard appeared before
the Committee to discuss hedge fund equity growth, manager reviews and the quarterly
investment performance report. Presentation materials were provided.

Following discussion for the investment manager review, the following
recommendations were made by NEPC and concurrence of the Chief Investment
Officer.

Re: Hedge Fund Manager

Motion #16-20?05: Doris Ewing moved to hire AQR and Corbin. David Sowerby
seconded. Thomas Sheehan opposed.

The Motion passed.

Re: Large Cap Growth Manager

Motion #16-20-06: David Sowerby moved to hire Edgewood Management; subject to
contract and fee agreement. Robert Rietz seconded. Motion passed.

Re: Large Cap Value Manager

Motion #16-20~07: June Nickleberry moved to terminate Aronson Johnson and
hire NorthPointe Capital and Barrow, Hanley. Robert Rietz seconded.

Yeas: Nickleberry, Rietz, Sowerby, Vanden Bosch, Whipple 5
Nays: Ewing, Sheehan - 2

The Motion passed.

 

Minutes GRS lC Mtg.
Meeting No. 20
December 5, 2016

Re: GMO Global Asset Allocation

Motion #16-20-08: Kerrie Vanden Bosch moved to terminate GMO predominantly for
issues related to underperforrnance and organizational changes. Robert Rietz
seconded. Motion passed.

Yeas: Nickleberry, Rietz, Sowerby, Vanden Bosch, Whipple - 5

Nays: Ewing, Sheehan 2

~Concludes Presentation?-

CHIEF INVESTMENT REPORT

Chief Investment Officer, Ryan Bigelow, provided a report for actionable items and
updates for discussion and approval:

Re: American Realtv Advisors 

Motion #16-20-09: Doris Ewing moved to acknowledging and approving the Second
Amendment to the Real Estate Investment Advisory and Asset Management Agreement
with American Realty Advisors and Third Amendment to Second Amended and
Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of MGRA Genesis Value Fund LP and the

Amendment to Investment Management Agreement. David Sowerby seconded. Motion
passed.

Re: Securities Litigation Policy
This matter will be brought back before the for discussion.

~Concludes ClO?s Report~

LEGAL REPORT

General Counsel, Michael VanOverbeke, provided a written report of the following
informational items for discussion and actionable items for approval:

. Administrative Report
I Annual Review of the IC Investment Policy Statement
- Summary of the Annual Report

 

 

Minutes GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 20
December 5, 2016

Re: Recommendation for the Reapbointment and Continued Service of Ken Whipple
Resolution Moved By: Kerrie Vanden Bosch Supported By: Robert Rietz

WHEREAS, the Investment Committee of the General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit (?Investment Committee?) serves in a fiduciary capacity and was established for
the purpose of making recommendations to and approving actions by the Board of
Trustees of the General Retirement System of the City of Detroit Board?), and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Combined Plan Document, the Investment Committee shall
consist of seven (7) members; five (5) of whom are independent members pursuant to
Section 120(1) of the Combined Plan Document, and

WHEREAS, the initial term of the Committee Chair Ken Whipple, one of the initial
independent Investment Committee members, is set to expire on December 31, 2016,
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 1.21 of the Combined Plan Document ?notwithstanding
any provision of this Combined Plan Document, an Initial independent Investment
Committee member shall not be prohibited from becoming a successor independent
Investment Committee member after expiration of his or her initial term,? and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 1.21 of the Combined Plan Document "[s]uccessor
independent Investment Committee members shall be recommended by a majority of
the remaining independent Investment Committee members and shall be confirmed by
the Board and the Treasurer of the State of Michigan (?State Treasurer"), in consultation
with the Foundation, pursuant to such rules and regulations as may be adopted by the
Investment Committee (provided that such rules are not inconsistent with the
Governance Term Sheet or the Plan of Adjustment),? and

WHEREAS, the Investment Committee and the remaining independent Investment
Committee members have considered Whipple?s qualifications and service to the
Investment Committee; THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that the Investment Committee hereby confirms the recommendation of
the remaining independent Investment Committee members that Ken Whipple continue
as a successor independent Investment Committee member for a full six-year term, and
be it further

RESOLVED, that the remaining independent Investment Committee members
recommend to the GRSD Board, the State Treasurer and the Foundation for Detroit's
Future that Mr. Whipple continue as a successor independent Investment Committee
member for a full six-year; and be it further 

 

Minutes GRS IC Mtg.

Meeting No. 20

December 5, 2016

Re: Recommendation for the Reappointment and Continued Service of Ken Whipple (Con't)

RESOLVED, that a copy of this resolution be forwarded to the GRSD Board, the State
Treasurer, and the Foundation requesting confirmation of such reappointment, and be it
further

RESOLVED, that a copy of this resolution be maintained in the Investment Committee?s
and the Retirement System?s records.

Yeas: Ewing, Nickleberry, Rietz, Sheehan, Sowerby, Vanden Bosch - 6
Nays: None

Abstain: Whipple 1

Re: Advisor and Consultant Review Policy and Securities Litiqation Policy

This matter was referred to the Administrative Sub-committee to review.

Re: 2017 - lnvestment Committee Meetinqs

January 30, 2017
12:00 Noon Conference Room

March 6, 2017
12:00 Noon - Conference Room

May 25, 2017
12:00 Noon Conference Room

July 17, 2017
12:00 Noon - Conference Room

September 11, 2017
12:00 Noon - Conference Room

October 30, 2017
12:00 Noon - Conference Room

December 11, 2017
12:00 Noon - Conference Room

 

 

Minutes GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No.20
December 5, 2016

Re: Election of Chair for 2017

Motion #16-20-10: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve David Sowerby be designated
as Chair of the Investment Committee of the General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit, effective January 1, 2017. Doris Ewing seconded. Motion Passed.

Re: Election of Vice-Chair for 2017

Motion #16-20-11: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve Kerrie Vanden Bosch as Vice?
Chair of the Investment Committee of the General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit, effective January 1, 2017. June Nickleberry seconded. Motion Passed.

FUTURE AGENDA 

- Administrative Calendar

. IC's Newsletter

- IC Chairs for General/PFRS will be meeting w/Gabriel, Roeder, Smith 00.,
Monday, December 12, 2016, at 9:00 am.

COMMENTS

. None

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business before the IC, Chairman Whipple adjourned the
meeting at 5:20 pm. The IC's next regular scheduled meeting is Monday, January 30,
2017 at 12:00 pm. in the Retirement Systems? Conference Room, 500 Woodward
Avenue Suite 3000; Detroit, Michigan 48226.

RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED,
If I
(Li ?/qu

RYAN 

CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER

 

Recording Secretary: Rita Coats

-10-

