'PeFe Web
WM 

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

April 3, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6000577 100% Federal Funding AMEND 1? To Provide Detroit Youth ages 14-
24 with Summer Employment. (GDYT) Contractor: Detroit
Employment Solutions Corporation Location: 440 E. Congress, Detroit,
MI 48216 Contract Date: Upon City Council Approval through
December 31, 2019 Contract Increase: $916,849.29 ?Total Contract
Amount: $4,416,849.29. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000577 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated April 3, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

15

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
April 3, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001736 100% City Funding To Provide Architectural, Engineering, and
Construction Administration Services for the Housing and Revitalization
Department Of?ce Renovations. Contractor: Ghafari Associates, LLC 
Location: 211 W. Fort St., Ste. 510, Detroit, MI 48226 Contract Date:
Upon City Council Approval through December 31, 2020 Total Contract
Amount: $100,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Officer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001736 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated April 3, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

[to

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
April 3, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001793 100% Federal Funding To Provide Shelter, Case Management,
Counseling, Life Skills, Mental Health Services, and Housing Assistance
for Homeless Men 18 and Older. Contractor: Operation Get Down, Inc.
Location: 10100 Harper Ave., Detroit, MI 48213 Contract Date: Upon
City Council Approval through December 31, 2019 Total Contract
Amount: $75,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001793 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated April 3, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   

 

April 03, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Community Bene?ts Provision for Tier 1 Development Projects
Lafayette West Ginosko Development Company

Honorable City Council:

Ginosko Development Company (?Ginosko?) is undertaking the development of a 5.2 acre site in the City
of Detroit between Rivard Street and the Service Drive just East Of 1?375 that includes: (1) a 114
unit 12-story high?rise, (2) a 200 unit urban lofts complex, (3) 60 units of mixed 3-story townhouses,
carriage and stacked ?ats and (4) associated parking facilities and resident amenities (collectively the

?Pro i col?).

Under the City of Detroit Ordinance 35 -1 6 (?Ordinance?), codi?ed in Chapter 12, Article XII of the Detroit
City Code development projects that qualify as a ?Tier Development Proiect? are subject to
certain community engagement procedures (the Process?). Because the Project is expected to incur
an investment of at least $75 million and to involve the abatement of more than $1 million in City taxes,
the Project quali?es as a Tier 1 Development Project under the Ordinance and thus is subject to the CBO
Process.

The Project was reviewed by a Neighborhood Advisory Council as part of the CBO Process to
ascertain the community?s concerns related to any impacts the Project may have on the surrounding
community and the ways by which Ginosko plans to address those impacts. A Community Benefits Report
was prepared for the Project as a result of the CBO Process and such report has been submitted in
accordance with Section 14-12-3 of the Code. Ginosko has agreed to address the concerns raised during
the CBO Process by entering into that certain ?Community Bene?ts Provision for Tier 1 Development
Projects Lafayette West? that is included as Exhibit A to the attached resolution (the ?Provision?).

We hereby request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution that approves the Provision in

furtherance of the Project.

Respectfully submitted,

Maurice Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department

 

cc: S. Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Flaming Development Department?s
Lafayette West Community Bene?ts Agreement Report in the attached Exhibit 
incorporated herein is hereby received and ?led by Detroit City Council; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the ?Community Bene?ts Provision for Tier 1 Development Projects 
Lafayette West? attached hereto as Exhibit A (the ?Provision?) is hereby approved, and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is hereby authorized to execute
the Provision; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the Provision will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

EXHIBIT A
COMMUNITY BENEFITS PROVISION
FOR
TIER 1 DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
(Lafayette West)



COMMUNITY BENEFITS PROVISION
FOR
TIER 1 DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

(Lafayette West)

THIS COMMUNITY BENEFITS PROVISION (?Provision?) is entered into as of its Effective
Date, as hereinafter de?ned, by and between the City of Detroit a Michigan municipal
corporation acting through its Planning and Development Department, and Ginosko Development
Company a Michigan corporation with an of?ce at 41800 West Eleven Mile
Road, Suite 209, Novi, MI 48375. The CITY and the DEVELOPER may each be referred to
herein as a ?Party? or collectively as the ?Parties? to this Provision, as applicable.

RECITALS

WHEREAS, DEVELOPER is undertaking the development of a 5.2 acre property between Rivard
Street and the Service Drive just East of I-3 75 that includes: (1) a 114 unit 12-story high-
rise, (2) a 200 unit urban lofts complex, (3) 60 units of mixed 3-story townhouses, carriage and
stacked ?ats and (4) associated parking facilities and resident amenities (collectively the

reject?).

WHEREAS, under City of Detroit Ordinance No. 35-16 (?Ordinance?), codi?ed in Chapter 14,
Article XII of the Detroit City Code effective as of November 29, 2016, certain
development projects referred to therein as ?Tier 1 Development Projects? are subject to certain
community engagement procedures as set forth in the Ordinance (as in existence as of the date
hereof, the BO Process?) to determine the outstanding issues related to the Project and the best
means of mitigating the concerns of the community pertaining directly to the development of the
Project.

WHEREAS, because the Project is expected to incur an investment of at least $75 million and to
involve the abatement of more than $1 million in city taxes, the Project quali?es as a ?Tier 1
Project? under the Ordinance and thus is subject to the CBO Process.

WHEREAS, the Project was reviewed through a CBO Process by a Neighborhood Advisory
Council and the CITY has prepared a Community Bene?ts Report (?Report?) regarding
the Project, all in accordance with Section 14-12?3 of the Code.

NOW THEREFORE, the CITY and DEVELOPER agree as follows:

Section 1: Addressing Community Impacts. The DEVELOPER understands that through the
community engagement process set forth in the Ordinance, certain concerns have been raised by
the Neighborhood Advisory Council regarding the Project?s anticipated impact on the community,
all of which are itemized in the Report. The DEVELOPER acknowledges these concerns by
agreeing to the commitments set forth in the attached Exhibit A, which is incorporated herein by
reference. The DEVELOPER further agrees that all above-referenced actions cumulatively bear

an essential nexus with and are proportional to the type and magnitude of the impacts to the
community that the NAC has identi?ed and that the DEVELOPER has acknowledged.

Section 2: Continued Community Engagement. DEVELOPER has been actively engaging with
the community for input and will continue to do so throughout the development of the Project.
The DEVELOPER acknowledges and understands that pursuant to Section of the
Code, the CITY will facilitate at least one (1) meeting annually between the DEVELOPER and
the NAC. The CITY will facilitate, and the DEVELOPER must attend, such meetings on an annual
basis for a period of two (2) years following the Effective Date of this Provision. The purpose of
such meetings will be to discuss anticipated or actual impacts of the Project on the community and
to coordinate the implementation of the efforts to address such impacts, among
other topics that the CITY may determine.

Section 3: Compliance Reports. The DEVELOPER must submit to the CITY annual compliance
reports that summarize the progress on and compliance with the obligations set
forth on Exhibit A and the other community engagement obligations set forth herein.

Section 4: Meetings. Upon request by either Party, the Parties will meet at their mutual
convenience, whether in person or by video conference, telephone, or other convenient means, to
review any aspect of this Provision and each Party?s rights and obligations hereunder.

Section 5: Recordkeeping and Reporting. Each Party will maintain information pertinent to its
activities under this Provision for at least two (2) years following the expiration or earlier
termination of this Provision, but in no case for less time than may be required to maintain
compliance with Applicable Laws.

Section 6: Indemnification. The DEVELOPER will indemnify, defend, and hold the CITY
harmless against and from any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims, costs,
charges, losses and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses for
attorneys, expert witnesses and other consultants) that may be imposed upon, incurred by, or
asserted against the CITY or its departments, of?cers, employees, or agents by reason of any
grossly negligent act, error, or omission caused by the DEVELOPER, any failure by the
Developer to perform its obligations under this Provision, or any injury to the person or
property of an employee of the CITY where such injury arises out of the Developer?s performance
under this Provision.

Section 7: Compliance with Laws. Each Party acknowledges that it is individually responsible
for maintaining compliance in all respects with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules,
regulations, and orders having the binding effect of law (collectively pplicable Laws?). Neither
Party will be responsible for ensuring the other Party?s compliance with Applicable Laws at any
time, unless so required under Applicable Laws.

Section 8: Non?Discrimination. The DEVELOPER will, in addressing community impacts as set
forth in Section 1 herein, or in performing its activities set forth herein, refrain from refusing,
restricting, withholding, or denying any accommodations, services, privileges, advantages or
facilities or otherwise discriminating, whether directly or indirectly, on the basis of race, color,

ethnicity, national origin, religious beliefs or practices, age, disability, pregnancy, marital status,
parental status, military status, employment or educational status, gender, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity or expression, or any other protected or designated classi?cation, in accordance
with Chapter 27 of the Detroit City Code and other Applicable Laws.

Section 9: Community Reporting. The Parties acknowledge and understand that pursuant to
Section of the Code, members of the community may report to the NAC allegations
of the failure to comply with this Provision. Community members can submit
Such reports to the CITY by personal delivery with receipt obtained or by registered or certi?ed
?rst-class mail with return receipt requested at the following address:

City of Detroit, Planning Development Department
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808

Detroit, MI 48226

Attention: Director

The CITY will forward all such reports from community members to the NAC for the Project,
which may take further action in accordance with Section of the Code.

Section 10: Breach and Default. The failure by either Party to comply with its obligations under
this Provision, which is not caused by the other Party?s failure to comply with its own obligations
under this Provision, will constitute a material breach of this Provision.

A. In the event of material breach of this Provision, the DEVELOPER will
be considered to be in default of this Provision upon the failure to cure
such breach within sixty (60) days after written notice of such breach and demand to cure
by the CITY, provided, however, that if the nature of default is such that
more than sixty (60) days is reasonably required for its cure, then DEVELOPER will not
be deemed to be in default if DEVELOPER, with the acknowledgment and
consent, commences such cure within said period and thereafter diligently pursues such
cure to completion.

B. In the event of violation of this Provision, DEVELOPER will comply with
such enforcement and mitigation efforts as are determined by the Enforcement Committee
in consultation with the NAC, or City Council (as applicable), until the City Council has
determined that DEVELOPER is in compliance or has taken adequate steps to mitigate
violations, all in accordance with Section 14-12-3 of the Code.

C. In the event of the material breach of this Provision, the CITY will be considered
to be in default of this Provision upon the failure to commence its cure of such
breach and thereafter diligently pursue such cure to completion within ninety (90) days
after written notice of such breach and demand to cure by the DEVELOPER.

Section 11: Effective Date, Term, and Termination. This Provision has no force or effect until
the date upon which it has been fully executed by the duly authorized representative of the CITY

(if necessary, pursuant to the resolution of the Detroit City Council as approved by the Mayor of
the City of Detroit), and has been approved by the City of Detroit Law Department (?Effective
This Provision will remain in effect until completion of the Project and Developer?s
satisfaction of all of the obligations hereunder, or earlier termination by the Parties if so approved
by the City Council. The term of this Provision will be equal to the period of time necessary for
both Parties to satisfy all of their respective obligations set forth in this Provision, at which time
and upon written notice by either Party the term of this Provision will expire.

Section 12: Amendments. No amendment to this Provision will have any force or effect against
either Party unless it is in writing, expressly makes reference to this Provision, is fully executed
by the duly authorized representative of the CITY (if necessary, pursuant to the resolution of the
Detroit City Council as approved by the Mayor of the City of Detroit) and DEVELOPER, and is
approved by the City of Detroit Law Department.

Section 13: Notices. All notices, requests, noti?cations, and other communications (collectively,
?Notices?) related to this Provision shall be given in writing, signed by an authorized
representative of the Party and sent by United States mail, registered or certi?ed, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, or sent by express, overnight courier to the respective parties at the
addresses listed below, and shall be deemed delivered one (1) business day after the delivery or
mailing date:

If to CITY: City of Detroit, Planning Development Department
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808
Detroit, MI 48226
Attention: Director

With a copy to: City of Detroit, Law Department
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 500
Detroit, MI 48226
Attention: Corporation Counsel

If to DEVELOPER: Ginosko Development Company
41800 West Eleven Mile Road, Suite 209
Novi, MI 48375
Attention: Amin Irving

Either Party to this Provision may change its address and/or point of contact for the receipt of
Notices at any time by giving written Notice thereof to the other Party in accordance with this

Section.
Section 14: Miscellaneous Terms.

A. Independent Parties; Effect of Agreement. Each Party acknowledges that the CITY and
the DEVELOPER are independent of each other and do not intend, as a result of this
Provision or otherwise, to become a joint venture, partners, employees, servants, agents,
representatives, contractors, or any type of related business entities to one another with

respect to the subject matter of this Provision. DEVELOPER and CITY acknowledge and
agree that this Provision, and the performance of the obligations hereunder, is intended to
satisfy the obligations of the Ordinance and the CBO Process.

. Assignment. This Provision sets forth intended activities to address
impacts on the community by the Project in accordance with the Ordinance. The
DEVELOPER may not delegate or assign this Provision, or any portion thereof, either
voluntarily or involuntarily, or by operation of law.

. Force Majeure. In the event of enforced delay in the performance of its
obligations under this Provision due to unforeseeable causes beyond its control and without
its fault or negligence, including, but not restricted to, acts of God or of the public enemy,
?res, ?oods, epidemics, or severe weather, the time for performance of such obligations
shall be extended for the period of the enforced delays; provided that the DEVELOPER
must within thirty (30) days after the beginning of such enforced delay, have ?rst noti?ed
the CITY in writing of the causes thereof and requested an extension for the period of the
enforced delay. In the event that there is any dispute as to what constitutes such force
majeure event, the determination of the CITY will control.

. Choice of Law and Venue. The Parties acknowledge that this Provision will be governed
by the laws of the State of Michigan, excluding its choice of laws rules. Any legal suit,
action or proceeding arising out of this Provision will be instituted in the federal courts of
the United States of America or the courts of the State of Michigan, in each case located in
the City of Detroit and County of Wayne, and each Party irrevocably submits to the
exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action, or proceeding.

. Severability. In the event that any provision in this Provision is found by a court to be
impermissible or illegal, then that provision shall be stricken from the Provision and shall
be replaced by a provision that is permissible and legal and by mutual agreement of the
Parties comes closest to expressing the intent of the stricken provision. The remainder of
the Provision shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its original overall
intent.

. Counterparts. This Provision may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute but one
document. Each counterpart may be executed by facsimile or electronic signature, which
will be deemed to be an original signature, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law.

. Authority of City. Notwithstanding anything in this Provision or otherwise to the contrary,
the CITY is not authorized or obligated to perform any of its obligations pursuant to this
Provision until this Provision has been fully executed by the duly authorized representative
of the CITY (if necessary, pursuant to the resolution of the Detroit City Council as
approved by the Mayor of the City of Detroit), and has been approved by the City of Detroit
Law Department. Any amendments or modi?cations must likewise be duly signed (if
necessary, authorized by resolution of the City Council and approved by the Mayor), and
must be approved by the Law Department, to be enforceable against the CITY.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Provision as of the dates shown below,
to be effective as of the Effective Date.

CITY OF DETROIT,
a Michigan municipal corporation

By:

Name:

 

 

Its:

 

Date:

 

DEVELOPER: GINOSKO DEVELOPMENT COMPANY

By: (Q- 

Name: Amil'l Irving {if

 

 

Its: President CEO

 

Date; April 2, 2019

 

 

 

Approved by Corporation Counsel pursuant to
?7.5-206 of the 2012 Charter of the City of Detroit.

 

 

Corporation Counsel

 

EXHIBIT A
COMMITMENTS

(Lafayette West)

DEVELOPER hereby agrees to the following with respect to the Project:

Impact 1.1

1.

The standard construction schedule for the Project will be 7 am. 5 pm. on weekdays,
with Saturdays only being worked as necessary. These work hours include the waste
haulers emptying construction dumpsters.

DEVELOPER will comply with all local ordinances related to the Project.

DEVELOPER will provide at least 48 hour notice through the following sources for any
work to be conducted on a Saturday (?Communication Sources?):

a. a public website provided by DEVELOPER for the Project;

b. direct communication with the management agents for the Mies Co-Ops and The
Pavilion and any other Lafayette Park building that supplies a management contact;
and

c. an email list-serv which will be made functional by the DEVELOPER and includes all
email addresses provided by the NAC and the CITY for such email list-serv.

DEVELOPER does not guarantee that all major noise-making activities will occur after 9
am, but DEVLEOPER will work with its construction partners to limit as much noise-
making activities at the Project as possible after 9 am.

DEVELOPER does not anticipate having work occur at the Project site during Sunday
hours, however a 48 hour notice will be given by DEVELOPER through the
Communication Sources for unique activities or unscheduled work as needed during
Sunday hours.

DEVELOPER will not perform any disruptive/loud work on Sunday. Should work on
Sunday become necessary, it will be restricted to low decibel activities.

DEVLEOPER will not perform any construction work on Sundays when any scheduled
Detroit Lions football game occurs.

If Saturday work hours are necessary, DEVELOPER commits to a maximum of 2
Saturday?s per month.

Impacts 1.2 1.3

1. DEVELOPER shall donate a total not to exceed of $15,000 for tangible, visible
improvements to Lafayette Plaissance Park and/or Elementary School. Such
donation will be coordinated between the DEVELOPER, the NAC and the intended

receiving entity.

2. Per the recommendation, DEVELOPER will provide and install a placard or other
acknowledgement at the place that the above referenced donated improvements are made
recognizing contribution.

Impact 2

1. DEVELOPER will ensure that the Project is built with a minimum of:

a.

1 car per dwelling parking ratio per rental unit, which are largely smaller studio and 1
bedroom units.

1.5 cars per dwelling parking ratio per townhome.

Additional parking for visitors of rental units, 4 spaces for prospective renters, and
6 spaces for Lafayette West employees, as well as spaces for the proposed coffee/co-
working area per zoning requirements).

No parking ratios will rely on the on-street parking along Rivard or the Service
Drive.

Strive to meet an overall parking ratio greater than 1.25 cars per dwelling unit.

DEVELOPER understands the concerns of crowded on-street parking nearby Lafayette
West and that the CITY is currently working on updates to simplify the permitted
parking ordinance. The CITY will be engaging with residents to garner further input
on updates to the ordinance; speci?cally with those neighborhoods, such as Lafayette
Park, where permitted parking has been a request. DEVELOPER will ensure that the
Project complies with any such updates to the ordinance.

DEVELOPER will support any petition related to designating the block faces along
Rivard and the Service Drive to be designated as a Residential Permit Parking
Area.

DEVELOPER will enforce parking along the planned Nicolet and Lafayette Plaissance
private streets within the Project.

Since the Project is located within a half mile radius of high frequency transit corridors
according to Sec. 61-14-24 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance and is within certain bus

routes, the Project quali?es for a 0.75:1 parking ratio for the multi-family rental
dwellings to be constructed at the Project. To the extent that the total Project budget is
increased by $2 Million over the initial estimated Project budget of $1 1 1.8 Million and
as a last resort in mitigating construction costs, DEVELOPER may lower the above
referenced parking ratios to accommodate Project feasibility, so long as DEVELOPER
is compliant with the law and documentation to the NAC evidencing the construction
costs increases and other attempts to defray those costs have been attempted by
DEVELOPER. Notwithstanding anything to contrary contained herein, the parking
ratio for the Project shall not fall below 0.75 cars per dwelling unit for the entire Project.

Impact 3

1.

DEVELOPER will not, at any time, cause the total closure of Rivard unless such a closure
is required for utility connections related to the Project. In the event a total lane closure of
Rivard is necessary, DEVELOPER will do everything possible to minimize any potential
disruptions, including scheduling and paying for overtime work.

DEVELOPER may request temporary and/or partial lane closures of Rivard and/or the
Service Drive from time to time to address curb Cuts, tie-ins and ancillary work
parallel to such rights-of?way.

All traf?c disruptions directly caused by the Project will be communicated by
DEVELOPER through the Communication Sources in advance or as early as a known by
DEVELOPER.

All appropriate signage, barricades and safety measures for all traf?c disruptions directly
caused by the Project will be implemented by DEVELOPER according to Applicable
Laws.

All lane closures required for the Project must be included in a Traf?c Management Plan
that is approved by the Traf?c and Engineering staff prior to any such lane closures
occurring.

Impacts 4.1 and 4.2

1.

DEVELOPER will ensure that its contractors, subcontractors, suppliers and professionals
carry all appropriate general and/or professional liability insurance for any and all activities
related to the Project.

DEVELOPER and its af?liates that are associated with the Project, including Lafayette
Class A Partners, LLC, will be named as additional insureds on all professional liability
insurance policies of contractors, subcontractors, suppliers and professionals working on
the Project.

3.

For informational purposes only, DEVELOPER shall provide a copy to the NAC through
the Communication Sources of the insurance certi?cates and riders for all insurance that is
required by this Section of the Provision. If deemed necessary by the NAC, the NAC may
also forward such documents to the Mies Cooperative?s attorney for informational review.

DEVLEOPER will ensure all required insurance remains active through the entire
demolition and construction periods of the Project.

Any claims made against any such insurance will follow the evaluation process carried out
by the insurer?s claims departments.

Impact 4.3

1.

For properties located within the Project?s Impact Area (as de?ned in the CBO Report) that
desire to participate, DEVELOPER will pay for up to 50% of the costs for two (2) regularly
scheduled window cleanings (one following demolition and one after construction
completion), conditioned upon the following:

a. a participant must provide the DEVLEOPER with written con?rmation of the
frequency of current window cleanings at participant?s property over the year prior.

b. a participant must provide the DEVELOPER with actual invoices from prior window
cleanings over the year prior so that DEVELOPER may con?rm the costs associated
with the window cleanings of the respective participant?s property.

Impact 5

l.

DEVELOPER shall cause any and all hazardous materials identi?ed at the Project site,
from prior reports or otherwise, to be safely and properly removed from the Project site by
quali?ed, licensed and insured contractors practicing under the standard of care required
of environmental professionals in the State of Michigan.

Given past asbestos abatement and the planned activities, risk to adjoining and nearby
residents for exposure to asbestos and hazardous materials will be mitigated by
DEVELOPER before demolition.

DEVELOPER will post any and all environmental and demolition related reports to the
Communication Sources and provide separate copies to the NAC.

DEVELOPER will hire AKT Peerless to provide oversight for all Project related
demolition activities to ensure compliance with all environmental regulations and
Applicable Laws. Such oversight and all inspections made by AKT Peerless will be made
in addition to and regardless of any inspections required by the CITY and Applicable Laws.

DEVELOPER will develop a fugitive dust control plan in alignment with current
environmental safety regulations and Applicable Laws for demolition and implement

10

perimeter air monitoring for lead and cadmium dust. Such fugitive dust control plan, which
includes dust suppression, should be outlined in writing by the DEVELOPER and
submitted to the NAC for information purposes only. Such fugitive dust control plan shall
require that a particulate matter monitor be used and demolition stopped if elevated
particulate matter is detected during extreme wind or weather events. All demolition related
activities for the Project will proceed in accordance with NESHAP. All demo contractors
working on the Project will use wetting to suppress dust in accordance with Applicable
Laws.

6. Due to that portion of the Project formerly referred to as Shapero Hall, its former use as a
pharmacy teaching facility and the veri?ed building and soil contamination mentioned
given in Brown?eld TIF application, DEVELOPER shall adhere to the
following special pre-demolition noti?cation(s) regarding any removal of hazardous
materials, information regarding the best methods to mitigate exposure to hazardous
substances and other important pre-demolition information for residents:

a. DEVELOPER shall document and post on the Communication Sources the speci?c
date/time of all demolition activity for the Project;

b. DEVELOPER shall post the fugitive dust control plan on the Communication Sources.

7. Environmental conditions and the results of environmental monitoring associated with this
Impact 5 will be communicated by DEVELOPER thru the Communication Sources, as
well as through a direct mailer from DEVELOPER to all addresses provided by the CITY
that were used to notify the Lafayette Park residents of the CBO Process. For clari?cation,
if someone stops working on the Project as a result of an environmental health concern,
everyone in the Impact Area shall be directly noti?ed by DEVELOPER.

8. DEVELOPER acknowledges that the NAC believes that:

a. The risk the demolition activity presents potential adverse effects to the public health
due to lead-contaminated dust and asbestos.

b. Children and seniors are particularly vulnerable to the above potential adverse effects.

c. Measures residents can take to mitigate their exposure to harmful contaminants
associated with the demolition include: (1) making sure their windows and doors are
closed during and immediately after demolition and (2) making sure children are inside
or are temporarily relocated to a hotel or family member's house.

Impact 6

1. In order to ensure the health and safety of the surrounding neighborhood, DEVELOPER
will complete a full pest and vermin control mitigation program of the Project site prior to
demolition using the most updated industry standards. DEVELOPER shall cause rodent

ll

and vermin mitigation to be conducted during the mobilization, demolition, construction
and demobilization periods of the Project.

2. DEVELOPER shall provide a communication hotline that can be used by residents to
report any vermin or rodent activity in the Project and/or Impact Area. Such activity will
be addressed expeditiously by DEVELOPER.

3. DEVELOPER will monitor and ensure that all required sanitation control methods are
employed at the Project work site during all phases of the Project.

Impact 7

1. DEVELOPER will provide proper temporary fencing at the Project that provides both
?exibility and security for the construction activities occurring at the Project.

2. DEVELOPER will continuously monitor the development fencing for intrusions and
forcible entry and repair any such areas as soon as possible to prevent trespassing and
occupancy of the Project site or vacant buildings therein by trespassers.

3. DEVELOPER will consider providing barricades at standard entrances of the Project to
prevent cross-traf?c or event parking on site.

4. DEVELOPER will work diligently to demolish the buildings at the Project site by the end
of 2018.

5. DEVELOPER will provide security at the Project site. DEVELOPER has hired Signal 88
Security to provide such security, including overnight roving patrols.

6. DEVELOPER will work with Signal 88 and/or another quali?ed security team to
implement a construction-period security program. This may include the use of perimeter
barricades, monitored cameras, sensor technology, and/or roving security patrols.

7. DEVELOPER will work with its management agent, Village Green, to develop a post-
construction security program using the most ef?cient and effective security measures.

8. Prior to the start of construction of the Project and provided all City permits have been

secured and that all laws are followed, DEVLEOPER may have event parking and tailgate
parking at the Project site for events conditioned upon the following:

a. debris and trash will be removed by DEVELOPER immediately following the event;
b. the perimeter will be secured by closing/locking gates following the event;

c. all profits from event parking will be donated by DEVELOPER to the Horatio Williams
Foundation.

12

Impact 8

1.

2.

DEVELOPER will provide lighting at the Project suf?cient to maintain safely lit pedestrian
and vehicular areas at night.

DEVELOPER shall provide that all lighting at the Project be carefully considered and
shielded as necessary to: (1) reduce glare, light trespass into neighbors' homes and beyond
property lines and (2) reduce light pollution in the night sky. DEVELOPER will use best
efforts to ensure that such lighting is Dark Sky Compliant.

3. DEVELOPER will maintain light levels that are appropriate to a typical residential
neighborhood to ensure comfort and safety at night for all.
Impact 9
1. DEVELOPER will provide and install rodent-resistant trash cans along Rivard as soon as

possible and maintain the through the construction period of the Project.

DEVELOPER will incorporate rodent-resistant trash cans into our landscape and
streetscape improvement plans for the Project.

DEVELOPER will maintain acceptable and appropriate sanitary standards related to
controlling and disposing of trash, garbage and recyclables at the Project.

The protruding weeds between the broken asphalt in the large parking lot area of the Project
have created an ?eld of weeds. This is an open invitation to car lot parkers or
anyone else who gains access to the site, to dump additional trash or garbage. In order to
maintain a clean pre-construction lot, DEVELOPER will schedule one weed trimming to
ground level by mid-October 2018 and a second before demolition some time in 2019, if
necessary. Additional weed control measures will be provided by DEVELOPER in the
event that demolition and/or construction continues past the Spring of 2019.

In order to help control dust and debris during all phases of the Project and as a safety
measure and courtesy to/for the surrounding neighborhood, downtown drivers, cyclists and
pedestrians, DEVELOPER will install a securely tied down, typical construction-type
cover over the fencing at the Project.

To the extent that waste and debris can be recycled and such recycling is not otherwise cost
prohibitive, DEVELOPER will make best efforts to recycle construction waste and debris,
including recycling of the materials from the demolished building.

Impact 10

1.

During the CBO Process, the Project was presented by the DEVELOPER to the NAC and
the community with speci?c design standards, including certain speci?c design and

13

architecture models. DEVLEOPER shall adhere to and uphold such design standards in
the construction of the Project. Should the site design, layout or design standards that were
presented by DEVELOPER during the CBO Process need to materially and/or substantially
change, such changes shall not be made until and unless they are approved by the 
Planning Development Department.

Such design standards referenced above include, but are not limited to, the following
speci?c Project site elements:

a.

DEVELOPER will not include any interior ground level parking visible from the street.
Any parking spaces that are at the ground level should have a residential/retail liner at
the street front;

Neighborhood amenities;

Architectural style compliments the historic neighborhood of Lafayette Park and
maintains a balance of different architectural styles within the Project;

Materials stay consistent with proposed design intent;

Maintain the urban streetscape while also providing complementary landscaping to the
adjacent properties in Lafayette Park.



14

EXHIBIT 

LAFAYETTE WEST
COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENT REPORT



LAFAYETTE WEST

Community Bene?ts Agreement Report

City of Detroit Planning Development Department
Maurice Cox, Director of Planning and Development

 

 

 

 

73,1? 

 

 

 

1-:



 

 

LAFAYETTE WEST

Community Bene?ts Agreement Report

City of Detroit Planning Development Department
Maurice Cox, Director Of Planning and Development

October 22, 2018

Lafayette West CBO Report 

2

CONTENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION DESCRIPTION PAGE 14?
A Introduction 4
Notice of Public Meeting Impact Area 6
Neighborhood Advisory Council (NAC) Developer City Of?cials 9
Project Impacts Requests from NAC 11
Approved Community Bene?ts Agreement 17
NAC Letter of Support for the Lafayette West CBA 24
Appendices 27

 

 

 

 

 

Lafayette West CBO Report I 3

SECTION A.
INTRODUCTION

SECTION A.
INTRODUCTION

Ginosko Development Company's (Ginosko) Community Bene?ts process was triggered by

the development of Lafayette West. Lafayette West is a proposed master-planned 5.2 acre
community integrated into Lafayette Park. The project is located between Rivard Street and
The Service Drive just East of Ginosko is anticipated to create 3 modern-living
alternatives, high?rise, lofts, and townhomes; including rental and ownership options all located
within walking distance to the Central Business District and neighborhood shopping.

The project is composed of:

1. The High-Rise
- 114 luxury rental residences in a 12-story high-rise with units ranging from 600-1,100
with attached enclosed parking.

2. The Lofts
- 200 urban rental lofts with units ranging from 450-900 with enclosed parking.

3. The Townhomes
- 60 3-story custom built for-sale townhouses, carriage houses, and stacked ?ats with

attached garages.

4. Parking
0 490 cars (90% enclosed); including ample guest parking.

5. Amenities
- Market leading amenity offering to assure long-term competitiveness and resident
value proposition.

The following will direct you to the developer's presentations throughout the process, and
provide more extensive project information. Use the tab on the right side of the page that reads
Past CBO Engagement, click on Lafayette West, then scroll to the Resources section.

 

Project Massing Provided by Ginosko Development Company
Lafayette West CBO Report I INTRODUCTION 5

SECTION B.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
IMPACT AREA

IMPACT AREA 

SECTION B.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING IMPACT AREA

The Impact Area, determined by the Planning Development Department, is de?ned by
l-375 on the West, Gratiot Avenue on the North, The Dequindre Cut Greenway on the East,
and E. Lafayette Street on the South. This boundary is also de?ned by Census Tract 5170.
Approximately 70 residents were recorded as attending the ?rst meeting.

Public Notice of the meeting (as required by law) was mailed out to neighbors by the City Clerk?s
of?ce by June 18, 2018, via information packet containing a legal meeting notice, impact area
map, and a meeting ?yer developed by the Planning Development Department. The notice
was mailed to approximately 1,900 residents. See Appendix 02 for the letter and ?ier that was
sent to impact area residents.

Additionally, The Planning and Development Department (PDD) launched a section on the
Lafayette West CEO on CBO website, displaying updated meeting dates and C30
meeting presentations for every meeting held. Please follow the link below to download the
presentations for each meeting. Once on the webpage use the tab on the right side of the page
that reads Past CBO Engagement, click on Lafayette West, then scroll to the Resources section.

The link is as follows:


Lafayette West CBO Report I NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING 8  IMPACT AREA I

7

IMPACT AREA

DEVELOPMENT
SITE

Lafayette West CBO Report NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING IMPACT AREA 8

 

SECTION C.
NEIGHBORHOOD ADVISORY
COUNCIL (NAC) I DEVELOPER 
CITY OFFICIALS

SECTION c.
NEIGHBORHOOD ADVISORY COUNCIL DEVELOPER I

CITY OFFICIALS

Neighborhood Advisory Council (NAG):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NAME DATE
Patrice McKinnon Elected by Impact Area Residents July 10, 2018
Matt Morin Elected by Impact Area Residents July 10, 2018
Margaretta Venson Appointed by Council President Brenda Jones July 11, 2018
Daniel Carmody Appointed by At-Large CM Janee Ayres July 10, 2018
Andrea Pride Appointed by CM Mary Shef?eld July 11,2018
Julia Schlau Appointed by Planning 8: Development July 12,2018
Bryan Boyer Appointed by Planning Development July 12,2018
Kumar Raj Appointed by Planning Development July 12, 2018
Jonathan Toney Appointed by Planning Development July 12,2018

 

 

 

 

 

Development Team:

Ginosko Development Company:
Amin Irving, President CEO
Nathan Keup, VP of Development

City of Detroit Officials:

Planning: Maurice D. Cox, Janet Attarian, Julio Cedano

Jobs and Economy Team: Matthew Walters

Department of Neighborhoods: Vince Keenan

Legislative Policy Division Representative: Jamie Murphy

City Council: Council President Brenda Jones, At-Large Council Member Janee Ayres, District 5
Council Member Mary Shef?eld

Lafayette West CBO Report I DEVELOPER OFFICIALS 10

SECTION D.
PROJECT IMPACTS I
LAFAYETTE WEST NAC
IMPACT REPORT

The following document was presented by the NAC to the developer and the public at the fourth Lafayette
West CBO meeting at The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue on August 9th, 2018 at
5:30 PM.

LWNAC Impact Report

Updated: 8/7/2018

Please Note: This is a working document that is being presented for discussion purposes only.
It will continue to be edited throughout the CBO process.

Impacts and Requested Actions

Impact Requested Action

City ordinance work hours are from 7:00 am 1. Developer will sign a legally binding

to 10:00 pm. This will cause major disruptions agreement with the to restrict

to current residents' quality of life. construction working hours between 7:00

am - 6:00 pm on weekdays. Major
noise-making activities (jack hammering,
wrecking ball, drilling, etc.) should not
commence until 9:00 am on any day. If
required, a maximum of two Saturdays can
be worked per month and 48 hours public
notice will be provided for Saturday work.
No Sunday work is permitted.

2. Park benches and a designated picnic area to
be added in Lafayette Park. Developer will
work with NAC to finalize details regarding
types and quantities of all fixtures.

3. Additional trees to be planted in Lafayette
Park with guidance and feedback from The
Greening of Detroit.

Lafayette West CBO Report IMPACT REPORTI

2

Parking resources for existing residents will 1.

be highly strained with the addition of so
many new residents, especially considering
the parking deficiency (over 100 parking spots
based on City ordinance) designed into the
current plan and the other new
developments in this area that were not
considered in the developer's parking studies.
The NAC is concerned about the lack of
parking for LW employees, residents' guests,
etc.

Complete street closures on Rivard,
particularly given the nature of local streets

City to simplify the residential parking permit
ordinance process to install a residential
parking designation on Joliet Place and
Nicolet Place (and potentially other nearby
streets like Cherboneau Place and
Chateaufort Place) for residents on the
included streets only. Permit fees will be
waived or paid by the developer. This
program will last in perpetuity (The NAC
acknowledges that the developer does not
have control over City ordinances, but
requests that the developer intercede with
the City on behalf of the NAC).

or
Developer to comply with City zoning

ordinance with regard to required parking,
and include employee and guest parking.

Developer will sign a legally binding agreement with
the agreeing to not close Rivard completely at

having only one means of egress, will be a any time.

major inconvenience and safety issue for

residents.

Demolition and construction will create major 1. Developer will accept liability for any

nuisances to local residents in the form of
dust and potential damages to property.

damages to property caused by either
construction or demolition.

All impacted organizations will be added as
named insureds to the developer's insurance
policy.

Developer will perform two additional
window cleanings for Lafayette Pavilion and
the four Mies co-ops. One will be completed
after demolition and one after construction
is complete.

Lafayette West CBO Report INAC IMPACT REPORTI 13

Abatement and demolition present the
possibility of exposing residents to hazardous
materials like asbestos, lead, etc. Particularly
given the number of children and seniors in
the neighborhood, this is a major concern.
See these reference documents:

freep 
@i 
24002;

lilies ?mvw. noodle. {:onifamm?sianm Lie lrorl'news.
comi?ampf??' l3?55

Rodents, roaches and other pests are likely
living in the current building. Demolition will
force them to relocate, impacting the
neighborhood.

Historically, the site has not been properly
secured. This has resulted in petty crime,
vagrancy, trespass, and even arson.

Developer will sign a legally binding agreement with
the agreeing:

1. To development and implementation of a
lead dust management plan that includes:
pre-demolition notice to nearby residents;
description of fugitive dust control measures
during demolition activity; description of
post?demolition dust mitigation measures.
Also this will include an inspection
requirement during demolition activity by
someone from the City of Detroit.

2. To comply with federal, state, and city
asbestos demolition regulations.

3. To provide any hazardous
material/environmental surveys and
abatement reports to the NAC prior to
demolition.

Developer will sign a legally binding agreement with
the agreeing to immediately implement a pest
control program to mitigate this. The program
should be in place until completion of construction.
The NAC should be notified of the company hired.

Developer will sign a legally binding agreement with
the agreeing to:

1. Install and maintain contiguous security
fencing (current fencing is insufficient)
around the vacant building immediately.

2. Board up any broken windows and maintain
this practice through demolition.

3. Maintain a daily security presence to
monitor and protect the site starting
immediately through the end of
construction.

4. Maintain security for the property post
construction as well.

Housing units along Rivard may be exposed to Developer will provide detailed lighting plans to the

light spillage from LW fixtures, which could
create a nuisance.

NAC, when available, and accept public feedback.
Additionally, developer will ensure that lighting on

Lafayette West CBO Report IMPACT REPORTI 14

the LW development is shielded appropriately so
that no light spills beyond the property line or
produces glare that is visible from adjacent
properties.

Trash has historically been a significant Developer will commit to installing and maintaining
problem along Rivard due to tailgating, bus multiple permanent, rodent resistant trash cans of a
stops, and general foot traffic. This will likely similar quality and nature to the ones maintained by
increase with the addition of this new adjacent Lafayette Park properties.

development.

*Remaining Questions/Comments

What are the details of the tax credits and abatements that are being leveraged in this
project?

We understand that the Eastern Market Mixed Use Development project is utilizing
green roofs. Is this something that Ginosko will consider?

The NAC is concerned that the plan of the building may continue to change after the
NAC period has closed. For example we have been told that the four floors of amenities
might be reallocated and that there are 4 mid-rise concepts still under development. How
can this concern be addressed?

The developer has stated that there is asbestos and other hazardous materials that must
be removed before demolition, can we get a list of what the other hazardous materials
are, the level of toxicity. and the proper process for safe removal that will be
implemented?

The renderings showing ground floor homes include wall-like divisions between units.
This is counter to the spirit of Lafayette Park, which emphasizes openness and shared
spaces, we invite you to reconsider this decision. Visual barriers could be detrimental to
maintaining the look and feel of the Lafayette neighborhood, possibly the development
could take a note from the current landscaping within the Mies townhomes.

Regarding the LW sidewalk drawings and layout, it appears that the sidewalk layout
bordering the project streets seems to be entirely focused on circulation for the
development and not pedestrian circulation through their complex from any of the
surrounding communities and eventually across the new boulevard. Anyone walking to
downtown from the neighborhoods on the east, would prefer to continue through their
property on the street that is basically an extension of the neighboring community. Is
there an intent for the design to allow for that, particularly if a retail coffee outlet is being
contemplated?

The various project drawings seem a bit ambiguous regarding sidewalks going all the
way through the development and they don?t appear to show a north/south sidewalk next

Lafayette West CBO Report INAC IMPACT 15

to the service drive in the section with the high rise tower. Can you clarify and redefine
the sidewalk layout?

What is being proposing for the sidewalk widths? 6? should be the absolute minimum,
but with a strong focus on creating a walkable community, it would be better if it were 8?
or wider. Concern about the width of the sidewalks along the Rivard condo?s and the
distance between the condo front steps, their Rivard sidewalks and whether there will
still be a grass berm before the street, especially since the landscape design of the units
across Rivard, have a berm, landscape shrubbery and a lawn buffer.

at Has there been a landscape architect chosen? ls so, who and will there be any
coordination with the surrounding community?

. What kind of visible outdoor signage is envisioned in and around the LW project,
especially the tower building?

0 Has your design team taken into consideration any noise abatement or environmental
concerns as a result of the new boulevard?

- Is there any update of the sale of the Woodward Academy site?

0 How do you plan to manage a property that contains both rental and private units? If
you own your unit do you get first rights to the grill? Will there be a board of directors for
the condos, with by?laws? Who deals with those who do not separate their trash?

0 Can the the developer clarify whether the parking at LW will be paid or not, since we
know paid parking will have an even greater negative impact on the neighborhood local
street parking situation? Did his study include the parking overflow from the
Gratiot/Russell development?

- Can we, at the August 9, 2018 meeting, agree upon a workable and time-sensitive,
two-way communication method with the developer regarding development/project
announcements and neighborhood issues that arise at the LW site?

*Potential Alternate Name Suggestions

A local resident expressed a concern about the name Lafayette West because it will create
confusion since West Lafayette street is on the other side of Woodward. NAC members
suggested the following alternatives, but they are also open to other names as well:

0 Rivard Place
0 Lafayette Place
I: Lafayette North

Remanlng Questions/Comments and Potential Alternate Name Suggestions are not part of the original
9 list of Impacts and Request made by the NAC. These were presented by the NAC in order to give further
feedback on the project and gain further input from the developer on questions that were not fully
answered in previous meetings.

Lafayette West ceo Report IMPACT REPORTI 15

SECTION E.

APPROVED COMMUNITY
BENEFITS 

DEVELOPERS RESPONSE

 

Lafayette West
Community Benefits Agreement:

LWNAC Impact Report
October 03, 2018

 

NAC Impact Request

NAC Impact Request - Lafayette West Response

 

Impact 1.1

Developer will sign a legally binding agreement with the to
restrict construction working hours between 7:00 am - 6:00 pm on
weekdays. Major noise?making activities (jack hammering, wrecking
ball, drilling, etc.) should not commence until 9:00 am on any day. If
required, a maximum of two Saturdays can be worked per month and
48 hours public notice will be provided for Saturday work. No Sunday
work is permitted.

The

standard construction schedule is currently 7 a m. 5 pm. on

weekdays, with Saturdays only being worked as necessary. These work

hou



rs include the waste haulers emptying construction dumpsters.

We will comply with all local ordinances related to the project.

We will provide at least 48 hours' notice for any work to be conducted
on a Saturday.

Notices will be provided through the approved communication
methods including,

1. A project website,

2. Direct communication with the management agents for the Mies
Co-Ops and The Pavilion and any other Lafayette Park building that
supplies a management contact, and

3. A list-serv email which will be made functional by 10/31/18.

We cannot guarantee all major noise-making activities will occur after
9 am, but we will work with our construction partners to limit as
much of this activity as possible to the recommended hours

As of now, no Sunday heurs are being considered, and a 48 hour notice
will be given through the previously outlined communication channels
of unique activities or unscheduled work as needed

., Ginosko will not perform any disruptive/loud work on Sunday. Should

working on Sunday become necessary, it will be restricted to low
decibel activities.

.. We will not perform any construction work on Sundays when any

scheduled Lions football game occurs.
If Saturday work hours are necessary, we will commit to only a
maximum of 2 Saturday?s per month.

 

Impact 1.2 1.3:

Park benches and a designated picnic area to be added in Lafayette
Park. Developer will work with NAC to finalize details regarding types
and quantities of all fixtures. Additional trees to be planted in Lafayette
Park with guidance and feedback from The Greening of Detroit.

We

will commit to $15,000 for tangible, visible improvements to Lafayette

Plaisance Park and/or Elementary School. The donated gift will be
coordinated between Ginosko, the NAC and the receiving entity by the end of

the
Per

2018 calendar year.
the NAC's recommendation, we would like to have a placard or other

acknowledgement put into place recognizing Ginosko Development
Company's contribution.

 

Impact 2:

Parking resources for existing residents will be highly strained with the
addition of so many new residents, especially considering the parking
deficiency (over 100 parking spots based on City ordinance) designed
into the current plan and the other new developments in this area that
were not considered in the developer?s parking studies. The NAC is
concerned about the lack of parking for LW employees, residents'
guests, etc.

 

 

 

We

0

will ensure that our project is built with a minimum of:

1 car per dwelling ratio for rental units, which are largely smaller studio
and 1 bedroom units.

1.5 cars per dwelling for the townhomes.

Additional parking for visitors of rental units, 4 spaces for
prospective renters, and 6 spaces for Lafayette West employees, as well
as spaces for the proposed coffee/co- working area per zoning
requirements).

No parking ratios will rely on the on?street parking along Rivard or the
Service Drive.

The above commitments strive to meet an overall parking ratio

greater than 1.25 cars per dwelling unit when including parking

along Rivard and the Service Drive.

For concerns of crowded on-street parking nearby Lafayette West, the
City of Detroit is currently working on updates to simplify the permitted
parking ordinance The City Planning Commission along with the
Municipal Parking Department will be engaging with residents to garner
further input on updates to the ordinance; specifically with those
neighborhoods, such as Lafayette Park, where permitted parking has
been a request.

We will Commit to signing a petition for the block faces along Rivard and
the Service Drive to be designated as a Residential Permit

 

 

Lafayette West CBO Report IAPPROVED COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENTI

18

 

 

 

 

Parking Area as soon as possible after the proposed ordinance is
adopted.

We will enforce parking along the planned Nicolet and Lafayette
Plaisance private streets within the Lafayette West development.

Since Lafayette West is located within a half mile radius of high frequency
transit corridors according to Sec. 61-14-24 of the City Ordinance (see
attached section of the ordinance), and is within the bus routes on the
Map (see attached PDF), the project actually qualifies for a 0.75:1 parking
ratio for the multi-family rental dwellings only. To the extent that the
Total Development Budget is increased over $2 Million, as a last resort in
mitigating construction costs, the Developer may lower the parking ratio
to accommodate project feasibility, so long as documentation to the NAC
evidencing the construction costs increases and other attempts to defray
those costs have been attempted by the Developer. In no uncertain
circumstances will the parking fall below 0.75:1.

What is the exact number of parking spaces required Jfor this redevelopment
project per the city's Zoning Ordinance based on the revised site plan changes?

Per Section 61-14-24 (Pg588) of the Zoning Ordinance. Since the
development is within 0.50 Miles of a high frequency Transit
Corridor (Gratiot Ave, and Lafayette Street are considered high
frequency transit corridors. See attached map for location of high
frequency transit corridors.) This development qualifies for 0.75
spaces per dwelling unit for Multi-Family Dwellings. This includes
the two mid?rise apartments and the 12 story high?rise building.

Per the same section of the Zoning Ordinance. Townhouses are 1.5
spaces per Dwelling Unit.

Per the parking ratios required by the zoning ordinance the total
number of parking spaces required is three-hundred and eight (308)

Visitor parking [20 parking spaces being provided by Ginosko),
prospect resident parking (4 parking spaces being provided by
Ginosko) and employee parking (6 parking spaces being provided by
Ginosko) are not requirements for a residential development perthe
zoning ordinance. These additional parking requirements are being
asked by the NAC for the developer to meet The NACs request for
these additional parking spaces is adding 30 parking spaces to the
development of which the developer is looking to provide per

the NAC's impact request.

Per section 61-14-71 The amenity (coffee shop) space which is 800
or less requires 1.0 parking space per 200 of gross floor

area. Only requiring 4 parking spaces Please be aware that this
square footage may be lower or higher since floor plan
details are still being worked out by the developer and his team

What is the actual Parking Deficiency based on the revised site plan changes?

If the developer were to use the legal required parking ratio of 0.75
spaces per dwelling unit for multi-family dwellings and 1.5 spaces
per townhouse, the total required parking would be 308 parking
spaces. With the amenity space this is 312 spaces. In adding parking
for visitors prospect residents. and employees, parking increases to
142 spaces. There is no parking deficiency if these ratios are used
because they will be meeting the 308 parking space requirement for
residential and 4 spaces for the amenity space. The NACs request for
additional parking spaces adds to the legal required parking spaces by
30 additional spaces. Please keep in mind these 30 additional spaces
are not a requirement per the zoning ordinance.

If the developer were to use 1.0 space per dwelling unit for the
multi-family dwellings and 1.5 spaces per townhouse, the total
parking would amount to 389 parking spaces. With the amenity
space this is 393 spaces. With the Inclusion of the requested parking
spaces asked by the NAC it would bring the amount to 423 parking
spaces. According to the legal requirement the developer would not
be deficient with 393 Parking spaces, the developer would actually be

 

 

Lafayette West CBO Report IAPPROVED COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENT)

19

 

 

above the required parking spaces of 312 needed for the
development. The NACs request for additional parking spaces adds to
the legal required parking spaces by 30 additional spaces

if there is a Parking De?ciency, Will there be a waiver on the Parking De?ciency
from DD or BSEED to eliminate the need for a hearing with 

If the developer can meet the need for 312 parking spaces for the
entire development there will be no parking deficiency and no need
for a parking waiver. To my knowledge, the additional 30 spaces being
added due to the NACS request does not affect zoning approvals The
developer is only required to meet the 312 spaces. The developer is
providing 30 additional spaces to meet the NACs impact request for
parking.

 

. We will not, at any time, cause the total closure of Rivard unless required for
utility connections. In the event of total lane closures we will do everything
possible to minimize any potential disruptions, including scheduling for
overtime work.

. We will request temporary and/or partial lane closures from time to time
due to curb cuts, tie-ins and ancillary work parallel to Rivard and the
Service Drive.

. All traffic disruptions, directly caused by the Lafayette West
development, will be communicated through the approved
communication methods in response #1 above as early as a known land
closure is identified.

. All appropriate signage, barricades and safety measures will be
implemented per City ordinances.

. All lane closures will be approved through a Traffic Management Plan
through the Traffic and Engineering Department (TED) of the City of
Detroit.

Impact 3:
Developer will sign a legally binding agreement with the 
agreeing to not close Rivard completely at any time.

 

 

Impact 4.1:
Developer will accept liability for any damages to property caused by
either construction or demolition.

. We will ensure that our contractors, subcontractors, suppliers and
professionals carry all appropriate general and/or professional liability
insurance.

. Lafayette West, and its sponsor, Lafayette Class Partners, will be
named as Additional Insureds on the contractors, subcontractors and
professional liability insurance certificates.

. A copy of the above insurance policies and any riders will be furnished to
the NAC for informational review only and if necessary by the Mies
Cooperative?s attorney for informational review only, as soon as they are
available. We will ensure these insurance policies remain active through
the entire demolition and construction period.

. Scanned copies of the insurance will be provided through the
"Approved Communication Methods? including:

1. A project website,

2. Direct communication email blast with the management agents for
the Mies Co?Ops and The Pavilion and any other Lafayette Park
building that supplies a management contact stating that the
information is on the list?serve, and

3. A list-serv email which will be made functional by 10/31/18.

 

Impact 4.2:
All impacted organizations will be added as named insureds to
the developer's insurance policy.

. Lafayette West, its entities and partners will be named as Additional
Insureds on the contractors, subcontractors and professional liability
insurance certificates

a A copy of the above insurance policies and any riders will be furnished to
the NAC for informational review only and if necessary by the Mies
Cooperative's attorney for informational review only, as soon as they are
available.

- Any claims made against these policies will follow the evaluation process
carried out by the insurer's claims departments.

 

 

 

 

Lafayette West CBO Report IAPPROVED COMMUNITY BENEFITS 20

 

Impact 4.3:

Developer will perform two additional window cleanings for Lafayette
Pavilion and the four Mies co-ops. One will be completed after
demolition and one after construction is complete.

For properties located within the Lafayette West direct impact area,
that desire to participate, we will pay for 50% of two (2) of the
regularly scheduled window cleanings lone following demolition and
one after construction completion), conditioned upon the following:
1. Written confirmation of the frequency of current window
cleanings over the past year.
2. Providing invoices from window cleanings over the past year to
confirm the cost of current window cleanings.

 

Impact 5:

Developer will sign a legally binding agreement with the 
agreeing:

1. To development and implementation of a lead dust management

plan that includes: pre- demolition notice to nearby residents;
description of fugitive dust control measures during demolition
activity; description of post-demolition dust mitigation measures.
Also this will include an inspection requirement during demolition
activity by someone from the City of Detroit.

Any and all hazardous materials identified from prior reports will be safely
and properly removed on-site by qualified, licensed and insured contractors
practicing under the standard of care required of environmental
professionals in Michigan.

Given past asbestos abatement and the planned activities, risk to adjoining
and nearby residents for exposure to asbestos and hazardous materials
will be mitigated before demolition.

We will provide these reports to the NAC committee and advise residents
via the list-serv.

We will hire AKT Peerless to provide oversight to all demolition activity to
ensure compliance with all environmental regulations The AKT Peerless
inspections will be made in addition to and regardless of any City-required
inspections.

We will develop fugitive dust control plan in alignment with current
environmental safety regulations for demolition and implement perimeter
air monitoring for lead and cadmium dust. The fugitive dust control plan,
which includes dust suppression, should be outlined in writing by the
developer and submitted to the NAC for information purposes only. The
plan should require that a particulate matter monitor be used and
demolition stopped if elevated particulate matter is detected during
extreme wind or weather events The demo will proceed in accordance
with the demo contractor will use wetting to suppress dust in
accordance with applicable state and federal regulations.

Due to Shapero Hall?s former use as a pharmacy teaching facility, and the
verified building and soil contamination mentioned in the Brownfield
application, the NAC requires that the following special pre-demolition
notificationls) occur regarding any removal of hazardous materials,
information regarding the best methods to mitigate exposure to hazardous
substances and other important pre-demolitIOn information for residents
such as:

1. The specific date/time of the demolition activity;

2. A link on the website and list serve to the fugitive dust plan.
Environmental conditions and the results of environmental monitoring
associated with Impact #5 will be communicated thru the ?Approved
Communication Methods? defined in Impact 4.1, well as thru a mailer to be
sent to all addresses that the City of Detroit used to notify the Lafayette Park
residents of the. CBO process In principle: "If someone stops working as a
result of environmental health concerns, everyone in the impact area needs
to be notified."

The Neighborhood Advisory Council solely believes that:

1. The risk the demolition activity presents to public health due to lead-
contaminated dust and asbestos.

2 Children and seniors are particularly vulnerable

3. Measures residents can take to mitigate their exposure to harmful
contaminants associated with the demolition, include making sure
their windows and doors are closed during and immediately after
demolition, making sure children are inside, or temporarily relocating
to a hotel or family member's house

 

 

2. To comply with federal, state, and city asbestos demolition
regulations.

3. To provide any hazardous material/environmental surveys and
abatement reports to the NAC prior to demolition.

Impact 6:

Developer will sign a legally binding agreement with the 
agreeing to immediately implement a pest control program to
mitigate this. The program should be in place until completion of
construction. The NAC should be notified of the company hired

 

 

in order to ensure the health and safety of the surrounding neighborhood,
Ginosko will complete a full pest and vermin control mitigation program of
the site prior to demolition using the most updated industry standards
Rodent and vermin mitigation will continue during mobilization,
demolition, construction and demobilization.

The communication hotline can be used by residents to report any
increase of vermin or rodent activity in the Lafayette Park neighborhood,
which will be addressed expeditiously by the developer.

 

 

Lafayette West CBO Report IAPPROVED COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENTI

21

 

Ginosko and/or its contractors will monitor and ensure that all required
sanitation control methods are employed at the work site during all phases
of the development.

 

Impact 7:

Developer will Sign a legally binding agreement with the agreeing

to:

1. Install and maintain contiguous security fencing (current
fencing is insufficient) around the vacant building
immediately.

2. Board up any broken windows and maintain this practice
through demolition.

3. Maintain a daily security presence to monitor and protect
the site starting immediately through the end of
construction.

4 Maintain security for the property post construction as well.

We will replace the temporary fence with a more permanent fence which
still provides flexibility for construction activity.
Ginosko will continuously monitor the development fencing for intrusions
and forcible entry and repair those areas as soon as possible to prevent
trespassing and occupancy of the site or vacant building by trespassers.
We will consider barricades at standard entrances to prevent cross-traffic or
event parking on site.
We will work diligently to demolish the building in 2018.
We have hired Signal 88 Security to provide overnight roving patrols.
We will work with Signal 88 and/or other qualified security team to
implement construction-period security program. This may include the use
of perimeter barricades, monitored cameras, sensor technology, and/or
roving security patrols.
We will work with our management agent, Village Green, to develop a post-
construction security program using the most efficient and effective security
measures.
Pre-construction event parking and tailgating for events held at Ford
?eld will be allowed conditioned upon the following:
1. Debris and trash will be removed immediately following the event
2. The perimeter will be secured by closing/locking gates following the
event
3. All profits from event parking will be donated to the Horatio
Williams Foundation

 

 

Impact 8:

Developer will provide detailed lighting plans to the NAC, when
available, and accept public feedback. Additionally, developer will
ensure that lighting on the LW development is shielded appropriately
so that no light spills beyond the property line or produces glare that
is visible from adjacent properties.

- We will provide lighting sufficient to maintain safely lit pedestrian and
vehicular areas at night.
All lighting will be carefully considered and shielded as necessary to
reduce glare, light trespass into neighbors' homes and beyond property
lines, and to reduce light pollution in the night sky. The Developer will use
best efforts to ensure lighting will be Dark Sky Compliant.

- We will maintain light levels that are appropriate to a typical residential
neighborhood to ensure comfort and safety at night for all

 

Impact 9:
Trash, Site Cleanliness and Weed Control

 

 

 

. We will install rodent?resistant trash cans along Rivard as soon as possible
and maintain the through the construction period.

. We will incorporate rodent-resistant trash cans into our landscape and
streetscape improvement plans.

. We will maintain acceptable appropriate sanitary standards related to
controlling and disposing of trash, garbage and recyclables.

The protruding weeds between the broken asphalt in the large parking lot
area of the project have created an field of weeds. This is an open
invitation to car lot parkers or anyone else who gains access to the site, to
dump additional trash or garbage. ln orderto maintain a clean pre-
construction lot, the developer will schedule one weed trimming to ground
level by mid~October 2018 and a second before demolition in 2019, if
necessary. Additional weed control measures will be scheduled if demolition
and/or construction is delayed. Past spring of 2019.

- In order to help control dust and debris during all phases of the project, and
as a safety measure and courtesy to/for the neighborhood, downtown
drivers, cyclists and pedestrians, the developer will install a securely tied
down, typical construction type cover over the project fencing.

. We will recycle construction waste and debris, including recycling of the
materials from the demolished building

 

 

Lafayette West CBO Report IAPPROVED COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENTI

22

 

Impact 10: . Lafayette West was presented to the NAC board and community with specific
design standards that the developer should uphold. Should the site design
change representing the design standards being materially and substantially
inconsistent with those design and architecture models presented by the
developer in connection with the NAC Impacts Requests and Benefits, the
developer shall seek the requested changes to be approved by the City of
Detroit?s Planning Development.

- Speci?c site elements that should be considered are listed below:

1. The developer will not include any interior ground level parking visible
from the street. Any parking spaces that are at the ground level should
have a residential/retail liner at the street front.

2. Neighborhood amenities

3. Architectural style compliments the historic neighborhood of Lafayette
Park and maintains a balance of different architectural styles within
the development.

4. Materials stay consistent with proposed design intent.

5. Maintain the urban streetscape while also providing complementary
landscaping to the adjacent properties In Lafayette Park.

Proposed Architecture and Urban Design of Lafayette West.

 

 

 

 

 

Impact 10 was later added by the NAC during negotiations and amendments to the developer's
response of the list of impact and request. Impact 10 is not listed in the Impact Report
located in Section D.

Lafayette West CBO Report IAPPROVED COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENTI 23

SECTION F.

LETTER OF SUPPORT
FOR THE LAFAYETTE WEST
COMMUNITY BENEFITS


October 03 2018

Maurice Cox

Director of Planning and Development
City of Detroit

2 Woodward, Suite 1100

Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Neighborhood Advisory Council Letter of Support for the Lafayette West Community Bene?ts
Agreement

Mr. Cox:

The Lafayette West Neighborhood Advisory Council (the was established on Tuesday, July 24,
2018 for the purpose of participating in the Community Benefits Process, as required by the Detroit
Community Benefits Ordinance (the As part of the Community Benefits Process, the NAC met
with Ginosko Development Company, City staff, and members of the public to better understand
Ginosko's proposed Lafayette West Development, hear community concerns, and ultimately provide
a list of concerns to the development team.

Ginosko Development Company is proposing a master-planned 5.2 acre residential community
integrated into Lafayette Park, located between Rivard Street and the Service Drive, just
North of Woodward Academy. Ginosko Development Company is anticipated to create three modern
living alternatives, high-rise, lofts, and townhomes. Within Ginosko?s Tier 1 Development Project (the
?Project") will include both rental and ownership options forthe residential use, amenity space, and
parking.

The NAC actively engaged the public throughout this process to solicit community feedback about
the Project via various Lafayette Park residential cooperatives, through email, and conversations and
meetings with Lafayette Park residents. The purpose of this engagement was to develop an informed
Community Benefits proposal that best represents our understanding of community needs. As a
result, the Lafayette West Neighborhood Advisory Council provided the Community Impacts Report,
entitled Impact Report - August 07, 2018" to Ginosko Development Company and the City of
Detroit Administration on Thursday, August 09, 2018. This document was presented and reviewed
with the public and Ginosko at the CBO Public Meeting held on Thursday, August 09, 2018, from
5:30pm to 7:30pm at Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue. The responses to the
LWNAC Impact Report was presented by Ginosko Development Company and reviewed with the NAC
and the public at the CBO Public Meeting held on Tuesday August 21, 2018. During Meeting #5
the NAC decided not to hold a meeting #6 in order to negotiate language amendments for the
responses to the LWNAC Impact Report with Ginosko Development Company. Through email and
telephone conversations the NAC and Ginosko Development Company amended final language to
the LWNAC Impact Report responses and came to a final agreement with the Lafayette West
Community Benefits Proposal on October 03, 2018.

The NAC is pleased to offer this letter of support to confirm that the attached "Lafayette West
Community Benefits Agreement: LWNAC Impact Report" document dated October 03, 2018

Lafayette West CBO Report INAC LETTER OF 5U PPORTI 25

accurately reflects our understanding of the agreed upon community benefits to be included in the
development agreement for the Lafayette West Development project.

The NAC welcomes Ginosko Development Company to Lafayette Park and looks forward to working
with members of the City's administration and the Ginosko Development Company team to create a
stronger community for all.

Sincerely,

The fayette est NeIghborhood Advisory Council

?j??iww Mom 

 

 

 

Patrice N?Kinnon Andrea Pride {Daniel Carmody
cu 21% Q1- to?
Bryan Boyer 

 

Margaretta Venson Matthew Morin nathan Toney 

Lafayette West cso Report INAC LETTER OF SUPPORTI 26

SECTION G.
APPENDICES

 

 

 

 

APPENDIX DESCRIPTION
01 Community Bene?ts Ordinance, Detroit Legal News, Nov. 29, 2016 28
02 Legal Meeting Notice 31
03 NAC Meeting Schedule 36
04 Meeting Recaps 38

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lafayette West CBO Report I APPENDICES I

27

APPENDIX 01.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS
ORDINANCE NO. 35-16



Page 6, The Detroit Legal News

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 2016

 

NOTICE OF
ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCE
To: THE PEOPLE OF DETROIT.
MICHIGAN.

Through an initiative submitted by City
Council resolution, the people of the City
of Detroit adopted the following ordinance
at the November 3, 2016 General Elec-
tion:

ORDINANCE NO. 35-16
CHAPTER 14.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE XII.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE
PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
THAT:

Section 1. Chapter 14 of the 1984
Detroit City Code, Community Develop-
ment, is amended by adding Article XII,
Community Bene?ts, which consists of
Sections 14?12-1 through 14-12?5, to read
as follows:

CHAPTER 14.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE XII.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS
Sec. 14-12-1. Purpose; Tltle.

The City is committed to community
outreach and engagement that promotes
transparency and accountability and
ensures development projects in the City
of Detroit bene?t and promote economic

growth and prosperity for all residents.

This article shall be known as the
?Detroit Community Bene?ts Ordinance."
Sec. 14-12-2. Definitions.

Community Benefits Provision means
the agreement made by and between
the Planning Director and the Developer
which speci?cally addresses the issues
raised by the NAC.

Enforcement Committee means a
committee led by the City's Corporation
Counsel and composed of representa-
tives from the Planning and Development
Department. Law Department, Human
Rights Department, and other relevant
City departments as determined by the

Planning Director.

impact Area means an area determined
by the Planning Director that includes all
census tracts or census block groups in
which the Tier 1 Project is located, and
any other areas as determined by the
Planning Director.

NAC means the Neighborhood Advi-
sory Council.

Planning Director means the Director
of the City of Detroit's Planning and
Development Department, or a member
of the Planning Director's staff working on
behalf of the Planning Director.

Tier 1 Development Project means a
development project in the City that is
expected to Incur the investment of
Seventy-?ve Million Dollars ($75,000,000)
or more during the construction of facili-
ties, or to begin or expand operations or
renovate structures. where the developer
of the project is negotiating public support
for investment in one or both of the fol-
lowing forms:

(1) Any transfer to the developer of
City-owned land parcels that have a
cumulative market value of One Million
Dollars ($1,000,000) or more (as deter-
mined by the City Assessor or indepen-
dent appraisal), without open bidding and
priced below market rates (where allowed
by law); or

(2) Provision or approval by the City
of tax abatements or other tax breaks
that abate more than One Million Dollars
($1,000,000) of City taxes over the term
of the abatement that inure directly to the
Developer, but not including Neighbor-
hood Enterprise Zone tax abatements.

Tier 2 Development Project means a
development project in the City that does
not qualify as a Tier 1 Project and is
expected to incur the investment of Three
Million Dollars ($3,000,000) or more,
during the construction of facilities, or to
begin or expand operations or renovate
structures, where the Developer is negoti-
ating public support for investment in one
or both of the following forms:

(1) Land transfers that have a cumu-
lative market value of Three Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($300,000) or more (as
determined by the City Assessor or inde-
pendent appraisal), without open bidding
and priced below market rates; or

(2) Tax abatements that abate more
than Three Hundred Thousand Dollars
(5300.000) of City taxes over the term of
the abatement that more directly to the
Developer, but not including Neighbor-
hood Enterprise Zone tax abatements.
Sec. 14-12-3. Tier 1 Projects.

Community Engagement Process
for Public Meeting.

(1) Prior to submitting to City Council
a request for approval of Land transfers
or Tax abatements related to a Tier 1
Project, the Planning Director shall hold
at least one public meeting in the Impact
Area as de?ned in this Section.

(2) The City Clerk shall fonivard notice
of the public meeting via First Class Mail
no less than 10 days before such meeting
to all City of Detroit residents within three
hundred radial feet of the Tier 1 Project.
The notice shall include:

a. The time, date and location of the
public meeting;

b. General information about the Tier
1 Project;

c. A description of the Impact Area and
the location of the Tier1 Project;

d. Information related to potential
impacts of the Tier 1 Project and possible
mitigation strategies; and

(3) In addition to the notice requirement
contained in Subsection (2) of this sec-
tion, the Planning Director shall work with
the District Council Member or Members
representing the district or districts where
the Tier 1 Project is located and at least
one At-large Council Member to ensure
that local residents, businesses, and orga-
nizations, especially those located in the
Impact Area and those expected to be
directly impacted by the Tier 1 project are
informed of the public meeting.

(4) At the public meeting, the Planning
Director will present general information
about the Tier 1 Project, discuss ways
in which the Tier 1 Project is anticipated
to impact the local community, and ways
in which the Developer and the Planning
Director plan to address or mitigate these
impacts.

(5) City Council shall appoint a liai-
son from the Legislative Policy Division
to monitor the community engagement
process and provide updates to the City
Council.

(6) The Planning Director shall provide
notice to the liaison of all upcoming meet-
ings and activities associated with the
community engagement process related
to the Tier 1 Project.

Neighborhood Advisory Council.

(1) The Planning Director will accept
nominations to the NAC from any person
that resides in the Impact Area.

(2) All residents over the age of 18 that
reside in the Impact Area are eligible for
nomination.

(3) The NAC shall consist of nine mem-
bers, selected as follows:

a Two Members selected by residents
of the Impact Area chosen from the resi-
dent nominated candidates;

b. Four Members selected by the
Planning Director from the resident
nominated candidates, with preference
given to individuals the Planning Director
expects to be directly impacted by the Tier
1 Project;

c. One Member selected by the Council
Member in whose district contains the
largest portion of the Impact Area from the

resident nominated candidates; and

d. One Member selected by the
At?Large Council Members from the res-
ident nominated candidates.

(4) If the Planning Director receives
less than nine nominations, the Planning
Director may seek out additional nomina-
tions from individuals that live outside the
Impact Area but within the City Council
district or districts where the Tier 1 Project
is located.

(5) All actions of the NAC may be taken
with the consent of a majority of NAC
members serving.

(0) Engagement with Developer.

(1) In addition to the meeting required
in Subsection of this section, the
Planning Director shall facilitate at least
one meeting between the NAC and the
Developer to allow the NAC to learn more
details about the project and to provide
an opportunity for the NAC to make
Developer aware of concerns raised by
the MAC.

(2) City Council by a 213 vote of mem?
bers present or the Planning Director may
facilitate additional meetings which the
Developer, or the Developer's designee,
shall participate in as directed.

(3) As part of community engagement
the developer, or their designee, shall be
required to meet as directed.

(at) Community Benefits Report.

(1) The Planning Director shall provide
a Community Benefits Report to City
Council regarding the Tier 1 Project prior
to the request for any approvals related to
the Tier 1 Project.

(2) The Community Benefits Report
shall contain:

a. A detailed account of how notice
was provided to organize the public meet-
ing.

b. A list of the NAC members, and how
they were selected.

c. An itemized list of the concerns
raised by the NAC.

d. A method for addressing each of
the concerns raised by the NAC, or why a
particular concern will not be addressed.

(3) The Planning Director, where
possible, shall provide a copy of the
Community Bene?ts Report to the NAC
prior to submission to City Council.

(4) To ensure an expeditious commu-
nity engagement process, the Planning
Director, where possible, shall submit the
initial Community Bene?ts Report within
six weeks from the date the notice is sent
of the public meeting.

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 

29

(5) The Planning Director shall work
with City Council to assure that. to the
maximum extent possible. all of the
approvals required of City Council may be
considered simultaneously and subject to
one approval vote.

(6) The Planning Director shall work
with other City departments to facilitate
that Tier 1 Projects receive expedited
City-required approvals.

Development Agreement

(1) All development agreements made
between the Developer and the City related
to the land transfers or tax abatements
associated with a Tier 1 Project shall
include the Community Benefits Provi-
sion, which shall include:

a. Enforcement mechanisms for fail-
ure to adhere to Community Benefits
Provision, that may include but are not
limited to. clawback of City-provided ben-
efits, revocation of land transfers or land
sales, debarment provisions and propor-
tionate penalties and fees; and

b. The procedure for community mem-
bers to report violations of the Community
Benefits Provision to the NAC.

c. The length of time that Annual
Compliance Reports as outlined in
Subsection of this section, are
required to be submitted.

d. Continued community engagement
or community meeting requirements.

(2) The Developer shall not be required
to enter into a legally binding agreement
with any individual or organization other
than the City for the express purpose
of fulfilling the requirements of this ordi-
nance or other City-mandated community
engagement processes.

(3) The Developer may voluntarily
enter into any contract or agreement related
to the Tier 1 Project that does not pose a
conflict of interest with the City.

(0 Enforcement

(1) An Enforcement Committee shall
be established to monitor Tier 1 projects.

a. The Enforcement Committee shall
be comprised of. at minimum, the follow-
ing four individuals:

i. Corporation Counsel for the City of
Detroit; or their designee;

ii. a representative from the Planning
and Development Department;

a representative from the Law
Department;

iv. a representative from the Human
Flights Department.

b. In addition to the members of the
Enforcement Committee as identified
in Subsection (1)a of this section. the
Planning Director may require that other
departments participate in the Enforce-
ment Committee as needed.

(2) The Enforcement Committee shall
provide a biannual compliance report to
the City Council and the NAC for the
time period identified in the Community
Benefits Provision.

(3) The Planning Director shall facil-
itate at least one meeting per calendar
year between the NAC and the Developer
to discuss the status of the Tier 1 Project
for the time period identified in the
Community Benefits Provision.

(4) The NAC shall review any alle-
gations of violations of the Community
Benefits Provision provided to it by the
community, and may report violations to
the Enforcement Committee in writing.

(5) Upon receipt of written notification
of allegations of violation from the NAC,
the Enforcement Committee shall inves-
tigate such allegations and shall present
their written findings to the NAC based
upon the following:

a. Whether the Developer is in com-
pliance with the Community Benefits
Provision; and

b. How the Community Benefits
Provision will be enforced or how viola-
tions will be mitigated.

(6) The findings of the Enforcement
Committee shall be presented to the NAC
no later than 21 days from the date the vio-
lations were reported to the Enforcement
Committee, unless the need for additional
time is reported to City Council and the
NAC within the original 21 daytime frame.

(7) If the NAC disagrees with the
findings of the Enforcement Committee
or determines that the Enforcement
Committee is not diligently pursuing the
enforcement or mitigation steps outlined
in its findings. the NAC may send notice
to the Enforcement Committee. and the
Enforcement Committee shall have 14
days from receipt of notice to respond to
the concerns outlined.

(8) If the NAC is not satisfied with
the Enforcement Committee's response.
the NAC may petition the City Clerk
and request that City Council schedule
a hearing with opportunity for both the
Enforcement Committee and the NAC to
present information related to the alleged
violations of the Community Benefits
Provision and any enforcement or mitiga-
tion efforts that have occurred.

(9) If City Council elects to hold a hear-
ing, or based upon the written information
submitted. City Council shall determine
whether the Enforcement Committee has
made reasonable efforts to ensure that
the Developer has complied with the
Community Benefits Provision.

a. If City Council determines that the
Enforcement Committee has made rea-
sonable efforts. City Council shall notify
the NAC and the Enforcement Committee
of their findings.

b. If City Council finds that the
Enforcement Committee has not made
reasonable efforts, City Council shall
make specific finding to the Enforcement
Committee on the steps that need to
be taken to comply with the Community
Benefits Provision.

i. The Enforcement Committee shall
provide City Council and the NAC month-
ly updates on compliance actions until
City Council adopts a resolution declar-
ing that the Developer is in compliance
with the Community Benefits Prowsion
or has taken adequate steps to mitigate
violations.

ii. City Council may hold additional
hearings related to enforcement of the
Community Benefits Provision as needed.
Sec. 14-12-4. Tier 2 Projects.

Developers shall:

(1) Partner with the City. and when
appropriate. a workforce development
agency to promote the hiring, training and
of Detroit residents consis-
tent with State and Federal Law.

(2) Partner with the Planning Director
to address and mitigate negative impact
that the Tier 2 Project may have on the
community and local residents.

The Developer?s commitment as
identified in Subsection of this section
shall be included in the development
agreements related to any land transfers
or tax abatements associated with the
Tier 2 Project for which the Developer
seeks approval.

Section 1 4-12?5. Exemptions.

The requirements of this ordinance
may be waived by resolution of the City
Council upon submission by either the
Planning Director or the Developer iden-
tifying reasons that the requirements of
this ordinance are impractical or infeasible
and identifying how the Developer will oth-
enivise provide community benefits.

Section 2. All ordinances, or parts of
ordinances. that conflict with this ordi-
nance are repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared
necessary for the preservation of the pub-
lic peace. health, safety. and welfare of
the People of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. The article added by this
ordinance has been enacted as compre-
hensive local legislation. It is intended to
be the sole and exclusive law regarding
its subject matter. subject to provisions
of state law.

(J.C.C. page 

Approved: November 8. 2016

Certified by the Board of

County Canvassers: November 22. 2016
Published:
Effective: November 29, 2016

November 29. 2016

JANICE M. WINFREY
Detroit City Clerk

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 

30

APPENDIX 02.
LEGAL MEETING NOTICE

LEGAL MEETING NOTICE TO RESIDENTS LIVING WITHIN THE IMPACT AREA

LAFAYETTE WEST

COMMUNITY BENEFITS AGREEMENT MEETING

DATE TIME: LOCATION:

Kickoff Meeting/Overview Horatio Williams Foundation
Tuesday, July 3, 2018 1010 Antietam Avenue
5:30pm 7:30pm Detroit, Ml 48207

General Selection for NAC See attached map and flier
Tuesday, July 10, 2018 for more information.

5:30pm 7:30pm

General Project Information
Ginosko Development Company (GDC) is reaching out to the community to receive input on the

Lafayette West Development, a proposed master-planned 5.2 acre community integrated into
Lafayette Park. The project is located between Rivard Street and Service Drive just North
of Woodward Academy. GDC is anticipated to create 3 modern-living alternatives, high-rise, lofts,
and townhomes; including rental and ownership options all located within walking distance to the
Central Business District and neighborhood shopping.

The project is composed of,

1. The High-Rise
- 114 luxury rental residences in a 12-story high?rise with units ranging from 600-
1,100 with attached enclosed parking

2. The Lofts
. 200 urban rental lofts with units ranging from 450-900 with enclosed parking

3. The Townhomes
- 60 3-story custom built for-sale townhouses, carriage houses, and stacked flats
with attached garages
4. Parking:
. 490 cars (90% enclosed); including ample guest parking
5. Amenities:
- Market leading amenity offering to assure long-term competitiveness and resident

value proposition

Unit counts are subject to change

 
   

nuor 
DETROIT

Community Benefits Agreement Page 1 of 2

Lafayette West CBO Report I APPENDICES 32

Impact Area

The Impact Area, determined by the Planning Development Department, is defined by l?375 on
the West, Gratiot Avenue on the North, The Dequind re Cut Greenway on the East, and E. Lafayette
Street on the South. This boundary is also defined by Census Tract 5170 (See attached Impact Area
map). Any resident over the age of 18 is eligible to be selected to serve on the Neighborhood
Advisory Council, to be established per the recently passed Community Benefits Ordinance
(ORDINANCE NO. 35-16).

Potential Impacts and Mitigation Strategies

The City of Detroit is aware of and acknowledges expressed community concerns related to this
project in the following areas. Please bring any concerns to the conversation on the evening ofJuly
3, 2018.

A. Parking
0 Residential parking for new residents
a On Street parking
- Visitor/guest parking
B. Construction
- Noise and dust
- Street closures
- Pedestrian right of way closures (sidewalks)
4- Construction equipment staging
Construction hours
C. Vehicular Traffic
I Site connectivity
0 Traffic flow and density
0 Vehicular public access through site

Community Benefits Agreement Page 2 of 2

 

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 33

As part of the community bene?ts ordinance process the
City of Detroit invites you to attend the kickoff meeting for the
Lafayette West Development. General selection of candidates
for the Neighborhood Advisory Council (NAC) will occur at
the second meeting, held at the Horatio Williams Foundation
from 5:30 PM - 7:00 PM Tuesday, July 10, 2018.

Ginosko Development Company (GDC) is reaching out to
the community to receive input on the Lafayette West
Development, a proposed master-planned 5.2 acre community
integrated into Lafayette Park. The project is located between
Rivard Street and Service Drive just North of
Woodward Academy. GDC is anticipated to create 3 modern-
 iving alternatives, high-rise, lofts, and townhomes; including
rental and ownership options all located within walking
distance to the Central Business District and neighborhood
shopping.

With advance notice ofseven calendar days, the City of Detroit
will provide interpreter services at public meetings, including
language translation and signage for the hearing impaired.
Please contact the Planning and Development Department at
{313) 224-1339 to schedule these services.

 

 

Image provided by Ginosko Development Company

1010 Antietam Avenue
Detroit, MI 48207

5:30 PM - 7:30 PM

CITY OF 

DETROIT

 

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 34

DEVELOPMENT
SITE


. 00?}
t?

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 35

 

APPENDIX 03.
NAC MEETING SCHEDULE

MEETING SCHEDULE

h?y03,2018

July 10, 2018

h?y24,2018

Aug.9,2018

Aug.21,2018









0

Meeting 1: Orientation Meeting

PDD presented the CBO process to the public
Developer presents project summary to the public
Public comment

Nomination of NAC members

Meeting 2: NAC Selection

0 PDD presents CBO process

Developer presents project summary to the public
Nomination of NAC members

NAC Selection Process, Community selected NAC members
Public comment

Meeting 3: NAC 8: Developer Discussion Meeting

I Developer presentation of project in greater detail
DEGC Brown?eld Tif Presentation

Questions from NAC

Public comment

Meeting 4: NAC Impact Request List

0 NAC presents Impact Request List
0 NAC and developer discuss list of impact and request
0 Public comment

Meeting 5: Developer?s Reponse to list of Impact Request

- Developer presents responses to list of impacts and request
- Permitted parking presentation by City Planning Commission Staff
and Municipal Parking Department
- Presentation by DEGC
- Public Comment
Meeting 6: 

0 Per the request, meeting 6 was not needed

Lafayette West CBO Report I APPENDICES I 37

APPENDIX 04.
MEETING RECAPS

ICES 38

MEETING 1 RECAP - JULY 03, 2018
5:30pm-7:30pm The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue

Meeting Agenda

5:30 - 5:45 Team Introduction
Council Members and Staff
Department of Neighborhoods
Planning Development
Ginosko Development Company

5:45 - 6:15 What is the 
CBO Overview
Fast Facts
When does the CBO apply to a project?
Impact area
Selection process overview
Review of Schedule

6:15 - 6:30 

6:30 - 7:00 Project Overview

7:00 - 7:15 

7:15 - 7:30 First Round of NAC Nominations

Meeting Notes/Key Takeaways:

The ?rst meeting of the lafayette West CBO process was held at The Horatio Williams
Foundation at 1010 Antietam Avenue. The meeting ran from 5:30 PM to 7:30 PM.

The purpose of Meeting 1 was to:

1) Introduce the City's Community Bene?ts Process;

2) Allow the developer to present an overview of their project to the public;

3) Hear from members in the community that may be interested in serving on the 
4) Hear initial questions and concerns from the community regarding The project.

R. Steven Lewis from the Planning Development Department (PDD) opened the

meeting with introductions of the development team and staff.

- Julio Cedano from PDD overviewed the CBO process, NAC selection and schedule, then
introduced the development team.

- Amin Irving from Ginosko Development Company presented an introduction to Lafayette

West development.
- The meeting was then opened to public comment.

Lafayette West cao Report APPENDICES 39

MEETING 1 RECAP - JULY 03, 2018 cont.
5:30pm-7:30pm The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue

Interest in serving on the NAC:

Residents were asked to come forward if they were interested in serving on the Neighborhood
Advisory Council (NAC). The requirements and responsibilities of the NAC were explained again.

The following residents expressed preliminary interest in serving on the NAC in Meeting 1:

0 Daniel Carmody
Andrea Pride
0 Jordan Lindsey

0 Paul R. Allen

0 Cindy Anderson
- Bill Dickens

- Matt Morin

. Kumar Raj
- Julia Schlau
. Jonathan Toney

Meeting adjourned at 7:30pm.

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES I 40

MEETING 2 RECAP - JULY 10, 2018
5:30pm-7:30pm The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue

Meeting Agenda

5:30 - 6:00 Introduction and CBO Review
CBO Overview
Fast Facts
When does a C30 apply to a project?
Impact Area
Selection Process Overview
Review of Schedule

6:00 - 6:15 

6:15 - 6:45 Project Overview

6:45 - 7:15 Second Round of NAC Nomintions Selection Process
7:15 - 7:30 2 Community Selected NAC Nominees Announced

Meeting Notes/ Key Takeaways:

The second meeting of the Lafayette West CBO process was held at Horatio Williams Foundation
at 1010 Antietam Avenue and began at 5:30pm. Following a brief CEO and project overview,
residents interested in serving on the NAC stood up again.

The purpose of Meeting 2 was to:

1) Allow the developers to present their project overview to the public.
2) Allow the community to ask more questions about the project.
3) Appoint the two community selected NAC members.

- Julio Cedano from PDD distributed voter cards before the meeting got started and
veri?ed that those receiving voting cards were residents of the impact area.

0 Julio Cedano from PDD opened the meeting, reviewed the CBO process, and explained
how the voting would take place.

- Impact are residents interested in serving on the NAC were asked to come to the front
and give a 1 minute speech on their interest of serving on the NAC.

0 After hearing from interested residents, attendees (residents of the impact area only)
were then asked to submit their voter cards.

- Amin Irving from Ginosko Developement Company presented an overview of Lafayette
West while votes were populated.

- Julio Cedano tallied the votes and was observed by Council Staff (Barry Blackwell, Vicky
Kovari), LPD (Jamie Murphy), and PDD staff (Steven Lewis).

0 The meeting was opened to public comment while the votes were being tallied.

0 The two community selected NAC members were announced.

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 41

MEETING 2 RECAP - JULY 10, 2018 cont.
5:30pm-7:30pm The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue

Interest in serving on the NAC:

For a second time in order to csapture new attendees interest, residents were asked to come
forward if they were interested in serving on the Neighborhood Advisory Council (NAC). The
requirements and responsibilities of the NAC were explained again.

The following residents expressed preliminary interest in serving on the NAC in Meeting 2:

- Patrice McKinnon
- Bryan Boyer

- Debra Thomas

0 Suzanne Schultz
- Jonathan Toney

- .Iulia Schlau

. Matt Morin

- Jordan Lindsey

- Andrea Pride

Concerns Raised by the Community:

Demolition. What type, explosive or bulldozing?
Lighting and darkness levels

Safety and security ofthe development.

Parking and traf?c.



Community NAC Selections:

- Patrice McKinnon
- Matt Morin

Meeting adjourned at 7:30pm.

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 42

MEETING 3 RECAP - JULY 24, 2018
5:30pm-7:30pm The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue

Meeting Agenda

5:30 - 5:45 NAC Introduction

5:45 6:15 DEGC - Transformational Brown?eld Program Overview
6:15 - 6:30 

6:30 - 7:00 Lafayette West Development Presentation

7:00 - 7:15 Questions from the NAC

7:15 - 7:30 Public Comment

Meeting Notes/ Key Takeaways:
The purpose of Meeting 3 was to:

1) Allow the DEGC to review tax incentives and which incentives the developer requested.
2) Allow the NAC to continue gathering more information to create an impact list.
3) Hear additional community concerns.

Julio Cedano opened the meeting by going through the agenda and announcing the nine
appointed NAC members. Each of the nine members introduced themselves to everyone in the
room. Following introductions, Sarah Pavelko with the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
(DEGC) presented on Transformational Brown?eld Program (TBP).

The following questions/concerns were raised to Ginosko Development Company regarding their
projects:

- Are the new private streets accessible to the public?

0 Do the new streets align with the existing streets?

- Are streets gated?

- Will you be charging residents from Lafayette West Development for parking?

- What is the parking de?ciency of the project?

0 What is the project Unit Mix?

- Where will garbage pick up/ loading and unloading occur on the site?

- Is the parking deck directly connected to the abutting buildings?

0 Will the demolition of the existing property be implosion or bulldozing?

0 Have you considered re?using the existing windows of the current property to be
demolished?

Amin Irving then presented the questions asked previously by the audience in greater detail.

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 43

MEETING 3 RECAP - JULY 24, 2018 cont.
5:30pm-7:30pm The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue

The following NAC Members were present in Meeting 3:

- Patrice McKinnon
- Bryan Boyer

0 Daniel Carmody

0 Jonathan Toney

Julia Schlau

- Matt Morin

0 Margaretta Venson
- Kumar Raj

Andrea Pride was not able to attend meeting 3.

Meeting adjourned at 7:30pm.

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 44

MEETING 4 RECAP - AUGUST 09, 2018
5:30pm-7:30pm The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue

Meeting Agenda

5:30 - 5:45 Review of C30 Schedule

5:45 - 6:45 NAC Presents Lafayette West Impacts and Request
6:45 - 7:15 NAC and Developer Conversation

7:15 - 7:30 Public Comment

Meeting Notes/ Key Takeaways:
The purpose of Meeting 4 was to:

1) Allow the NAC to present their Impacts and request to the developer.
2) Allow the NAC and developer to have a open discussion about the request.
3) Hear additional community concerns.

NAC Concerns Raised:

Parking was the biggest and most vocally raised issue in meeting 4

The following NAC Members were present in Meeting 4:

Patrice McKinnon
0 Bryan Boyer

0 Andrea Pride

- Jonathan Toney

- Julia Schlau

- Matt Morin

- Margaretta Venson
- Kumar Raj

Daniel Carmody was not able to attend meeting 4.

Meeting adjourned at 7:30pm.

Lafayette West CBO Report APPENDICES 45

MEETING 5 RECAP - AUGUST 21, 2018
5:30pm-7:30pm The Horatio Williams Foundation, 1010 Antietam Avenue

Meeting Agenda

5:30 5:45 Review of C80 Schedule

5:45 - 6:00 City Planning Commission staff and Munipical Parking Department staff present
on permitted parking ordinance updates

6:00 - 7:15 Developer Presents Responses to the NACs Impact and Request NAC and
Developer Conversation

7:15 - 7:30 Public Comment

Meeting Notes/ Key Takeaways:

Amin Irving presented Ginosko's responses to the NACs Impacts and Requests. Amin Irving and
NAC were involved in discussions and negotiations over language and changes to the developers
responses. It was agreed by the NAC that a sixth meeting was not necessary but, that the NAC
would work with the developer through email and other forms of communication to continue the
language amendments to the responses made by the developer.

The purpose of Meeting 5 was to:

1) Allow the developer to present their responses to the Impacts and request made by the NAC.
2) Allow the NAC and developer to have a open discussion about the requests made.
3) Hear additional community concerns.

NAC Concerns Raised:

- Each impact and request was discussesd in great detail between the NAC and Amin Irving.

- A list serve was agreed between the NAC and developer as a form of future communication.

0 Agreement of developer supporting neighborhood wide permitted parking with other
residents.

The following NAC Members were present in Meeting 5:

- Patrice McKinnon
- Bryan Boyer

0 Andrea Pride

0 Jonathan Toney

Julia Schlau

0 Matt Morin

- Margaretta Venson
0 Daniel Carmody

Kumar Raj was not able to attend meeting 5.
Meeting adjourned at 7:30pm.

Lafayette West CBC) Report APPENDICES 45

