City of Detroit

Alton James
Chairperson
Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

Brenda Goss Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis
David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

City Planning Commission Regular Meeting
April 4, 2019 at 5:00 PM
Committee of the Whole Room
13th Floor – Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. (at E. Jefferson Ave.)
(use Randolph Street entrance after 5:30 PM)

AGENDA
I. Opening
A.
B.
C.

Call to Order – 5:00 PM
Roll Call
Amendments to and approval of agenda

II. Minutes
A.

Minutes for the meetings of February 7, 2019 and March 7, 2019

III. Public Hearings and Presentations
A.

5:15 PM PUBLIC HEARING – to consider a proposed text amendment to the 1984
Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning relative to the R5 (Medium Density Residential
District) to amend provisions regarding bus rapid transit, streetcar / trolley, or light rail
lines, B1 (Restricted Business District) zoning classification to allow for governmental
service agency; B2 (Local Business and Residential District) zoning classification to
allow for governmental service agency; PR (Parks and Recreation District) to allow
other governmental agencies or non-profit agencies with duly recognized authority over
land zoned PR to engage in incidental retail sales; SD1 (Special Development District –
Small-Scale, Mixed-Use) zoning classification to allow for assembly hall, banquet hall
uses, and rental hall in addition to removing the maximum lot coverage requirement for
mixed-use development; and SD2 (Special Development District, Mixed-Use) to allow
for assembly hall, banquet hall, and rental hall uses. (RB, GE, JM)
60 mins

B.

6:15 PM PUBLIC HEARING – to consider the request of Thomas Group Consulting
and Parkstone Development Partners to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 63 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a B1 (Restricted Business
District) zoning classification and a B4 (General Business District) zoning classification
where a R6 (High Density Residential District) zoning classification currently exists on
one (1) parcel commonly identified as 18520 West Seven Mile Road, generally bounded

 by Vassar Avenue to the north, Glastonbury Avenue to the east, W. Seven Mile Road to
the south and Greenview Avenue to the west. (GE)
45 mins
C.

6:15 PM PUBLIC DISCUSSION – to consider the request of Detroit Entertainment,
L.L.C. d/b/a MotorCity Casino for approval of a modification to the previously approved
development proposal for a casino complex in the SD5 (Special Development District,
Casinos) zoning classification in order to allow the addition of 700 new parking spaces via
the construction of an eight (8) story expansion at the east end of the existing parking deck
erected on the property bounded by Elm, Brooklyn, Temple and Trumbull. (MT) 30 mins

IV. Unfinished Business
A.

V.

Consideration of the request of the Detroit Planning & Development Department to
amend Article XVII, District Maps 28 & 30 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61,
Zoning, by showing M2 (Restricted Industrial) zoning classification where R2 (TwoFamily Residential), R4 (Thoroughfare Residential) and B4 (General Business) zoning
classifications currently exist on approximately two hundred sixty-six (266) parcels
generally bounded by East Warren Avenue to the north, St. Jean Street to the east,
Kercheval Street to the south and Lillibridge and Beniteau Streets to the west. (JM, RB,
GE, MT, Planning and Development Department) STATUS REPORT
45 mins

New Business
A. Consideration of the request of Method Erskine, LLC to approve site plans and elevations
for the redevelopment of residential property commonly referred to as 304 Erskine within
an existing Planned Development (PD) zoning classification shown in Article XVII,
District Map No. 4, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning.

VI. Committee Reports
VII. Staff Report
VIII. Communications
IX.

Public Comment

X.

Adjournment (anticipated by 9:30 PM)

NOTE: With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter
services at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations.
Please contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313) 224-4950, through
the TTY number 711, or email crio@detroitmi.gov to schedule these services.

 