 

RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF THE CITY OF DETROIT

 

500 WOODWARD AVE STE 3000 DETROIT, 48226-5493

 

PHONE 3 115-224-3362 TOLL FREE 800-339-8344 1 FAX 313-224-9194

MINUTES
Meeting No. 38

Meeting of the General Retirement System Investment Committee
February 11, 2019

 

A meeting of the Investment Committee of the General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit was held on Monday, February 11, 2019, at the Retirement System?s office at
Ally Detroit Center, 500 Woodward Avenue, Suite 3000, Detroit, Michigan. Kerrie L.
Vanden Bosch, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 12:00 pm. A quorum was
present.

ROLL CALL:

Attendance was taken by the Committee?s Recording Secretary with the following
Committee Members present: Kerrie L. Vanden Bosch (Chairperson), Kenneth
Whipple? via telephone (Vice Chairperson), Doris Ewing (Secretary), June Nickleberry,
Thomas Sheehan and David Sowerby.

Staff Present: David Cetlinski (Executive Director), Ryan Bigelow (Chief Investment
Officer), Gail A. Oxendine (Assistant Executive Director), Kevin Kenneally (Deputy Chief
Investment Officer) and Kristi Grden (Investment Analyst).

Committee Members Excused: None

Staff Excused: None

Visitors Present: John Naglick, General Retirement System EX?Officio Trustee

APPROVAL OF AGENDA

Motion #19-38-01: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve the agenda dated Monday,
February 11, 2019 as prepared by the Committees? Recording Secretary.
David Sowerby supported. The motion passed unanimously.

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion #19-38-02: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve the Minutes of Meeting No.
37, held on Monday, December 10, 2018, as prepared by the Committees? Recording
Secretary. June Nickleberry supported. The motion passed unanimously.

 

Minutes - GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 038
February 11, 2019

Chairperson Vanden Bosch deferred future agenda items/discussion to the end of
the meeting.

PRESENTATION:
New England Pension Consultants

Representatives Kristin Finney?Cooke, Kevin Leonard and Kim Kaczor from the Board?s
Investment Consulting firm, NEPC, discussed the following with the Committee:

. 2019 investment Outlook
0 Credit Presentation

0 Market Review and Outlook
. Raven Fund IV Discussion

Presentation materials were provided
Motion #19-38-03: Kenneth Whipple moved to follow the recommendation of NEPC
and Investment Staff to fund an allocation of $20,000,000.00 to Raven Asset Based

Opportunity Fund IV LP, managed by Raven Capital Management. David Sowerby
supported. The motion passed by vote as follows:

Yeas: Ewing, Sowerby, Whipple and Vanden Bosch 4
Nays: Nickleberry and Sheehan 2

General Counsel Michael Van Overbeke entered the meeting at 1:18 pm.

 

Minutes GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 038
February 11, 2019

DISCUSSION:
Selection of Independent Committee Member

The Committee discussed the aforementioned matter at length with respect to the
successor for Independent Committee member Robert Rietz. The Committee discussed
individuals whom they deemed to be the most appropriate replacement-and determined
that former State Treasurer Nick Khouri would be the most suitable. The following
motion was the result of said discussion:

Motion #19-38-04: Kenneth Whipple moved to designate Nick Khouri as replacement
for former Committee member Robert Rietz, subject to verification from Mr. Khouri. Said
confirmation/designation correspondence will be forwarded to the General Retirement
System Board of Trustees, The State Treasurer and the Foundation for Detroit?s Future
fortheir concurrence. David Sowerby supported. The motion passed by vote as follows:

 

Yeas: Ewing, Sowerby, Whipple and Vanden Bosch 4

Nays: None

 

Minutes GRS iC Mtg.
Meeting No. 038
February 11, 2019

Motion #19-38?05:
Re: Tribute to Robert Rietz
Resolution Moved By: Thomas Sheehan Supported By: June Nickleberrv

WHEREAS, Robert Rietz was appointed by Governor Rick Snyder in 2014 as a
member of the Investment Committee of the Detroit General Empioyees Retirement
System, and

WHEREAS, Robert Rietz holds a Bachelor?s of Science in Mathematics from Michigan
State University and Honors College diligently with honor and integrity in his role as
Committee Member, and

WHEREAS, Robert Rietz is a member of the American Academy of Actuaries and
Fellow of the Conference of Consulting Actuaries, and

WHEREAS, Robert Rietz served four years on the Investment Committee of the
Detroit General Employees Retirement System, and

WHEREAS, Robert Rietz served diligently with honor and integrity in his role as
Committee member, and

WHEREAS, Robert Rietz carried out his responsibilities with Dedication, Sincerity,
Scholarship and Hard Work and has provided Distinguished Service to the Investment
Committee, Board of Trustees, Members and Retirees of the Retirement System and
the City of Detroit, and

WHEREAS, the Investment Committee, Board of Trustees, the Members and Retirees
of the Retirement System and the Citizens of the City of Detroit owe a debt of gratitude
to Robert Rietz for his faithful service; THEREFORE BE IT

RESOLVED, that the Investment Committee, on behalf of itself and all concerned
hereby expresses its gratitude and appreciation to Robert Rietz for his honorable and
distinguished service as Investment Committee Member, and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Investment Committee, on behalf of all the aforementioned
parties, says: YOU FOR A JOB WELL and expresses great
appreciation and best wishes and much happiness in his future endeavors.

Yeas: Ewing, Nickleberry, Sheehan, Sowerby, Whipple and Vanden Bosch 6

Nays: None

 

Minutes - GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 038
February 11, 2019

DISCUSSION:
Sub-committee Replacement Review

The Committee discussed and decided to defer until which time the replacement
Independent Committee Member has been identified and confirmed.

Chairperson Vanden Bosch will sit on the Funding Policy Committee until the new
Independent Committee Member is confirmed.

CEM Benchmarking Study

The Committee discussed the feasibility in continuing with the study. David Sowerby
suggested looking to the previous study to determine what the recommendations were
and what action was taken as a result. Staff will provide the previous study to the
Committee.

Performance Evaluation/Appraisal of Chief Investment Officer

The Committee will create a developmentally~focused performance evaluation/appraisal
for Chief Investment Officer, Ryan Bigelow. The evaluation will be for development
purposes and not compensation at this point.

Service Provider Review Policy

The Committee decided to review the Legal provider in concurrence with the Service
Provider Review Policy. The following motion is a result of that discussion:

Motion #19-38?06: Thomas Sheehan moved that the Committee conduct an appraisal
of General Counsel and direct that Investment Staff provide the Committee with a
comparative cost analysis for legal services, with input from General Counsel. David
Sowerby supported. The motion passed unanimously.

 

 

 

 

Minutes - GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 038
February 11, 2019

CHIEF INVESTMENT REPORT

Chief Investment Officer, Ryan Bigelow, provided the following updates and discussion
items for approval:

. Funding update
0 The Committee had previously requested an update on all Managers hired
in the last few months and funding activity.
0 2018 Audit; Insight Valuations
4? There is currently no quantitative basis for a valuation at this point for
Insight, so the value of Insight Is estimated.
0 Investment Policy Statement Revisions
0 Asset allocations have been revised with respect to ranges.

-Concludes ClO?s report

Motion #19-38-07: Thomas Sheehan moved to acknowledge receipt of and approve
the changes to the Investment Policy Statement as presented. David Sowerby
supported. The motion by vote as follows:

Yeas: Ewing, Sheehan, Sowerby, Whipple and Vanden Bosch? 5

Nays: None

Abstentions: Nickleberry - 1

 

Minutes GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 038
February 11,. 2019

LEGAL REPORT

General Counsel, Michael VanOverbeke, in addition to his formal report, provided the
following informational items:

Administrative Calendar

Proposed Semi?Annual Compliance Report for the General Retirement System
Summary Annual Report

ASF Recoupment Implementation

Meeting with new State Treasurer Eubanks

Update on Gateway marketplace will be provided at a future Committee meeting

Withdrawn Motion: Thomas Sheehan moved to approve and accept the Summary
Annual Report as submitted. The motion was withdrawn by Committee member
Sheehan.

The Summary Annual Report will be re-submitted to the Committee for review
at the March meeting at which time any correctionsfmodifications will be made.

Motion #19-38-08: Thomas Sheehan moved to acknowledge the ASF recoupment
issue and the Investment Committee concurrence with the General Board?s application
of the over/under payments policy to this instance. David Sowerby supported. The
motion passed unanimously.

Motion #19-38-09: Thomas Sheehan moved to acknowledge receipt and concurrence
of the Eighth Semi-Annual Compliance Report to the State Treasurer for the period of
July 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 and direct that it be signed by the Investment
Committee Chairperson Kerrie Vanden Bosch and also be forwarded to the State
Treasurer on behalf of the Investment Committee. David Sowerby supported. The
motion passed unanimously.

Minutes GRS IC Mtg.
Meeting No. 038
February 11, 2019

Public/Member Comments

0 None

Old Business/New Business

. None

David Sowerby moved to adjourn meeting #38. Thomas Sheehan supported.
ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business before the Investment Committee, Chairperson
Vanden Bosch adjourned the meeting at 3:10 pm. The Investment Committee?s next
meeting is scheduled for Monday, March 25, 2019 at 12:00 pm. in the Retirement
Systems? Conference Room, 500 Woodward Avenue, Suite 3000, Detroit, Michigan
48226.


cc Raffa-

RYANI 
INVESTMENT OFFICER

Recording Secretary: TaKneisha Johnson

