LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
January 9, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:07 A.M. by Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission; David Joens, Director of State Archives and designee for Jesse White, Secretary
of State; Ivana Dabizljevic for Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller.
Members Absent: Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee.
Vacant: City of Chicago designee
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent:
Staff Present: Bob Boots, Pamela Waggoner, Karen Mizeur.
The minutes of the December 12, 2017 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook
County were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Joens made a motion to accept the minutes as
submitted. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
None. Mr. Joens said the commission has not heard from the Chicago Police Department about
its retentions.
NEW BUSINESS:
Applications:
18:002C – Des Plaines Fire Department (Des Plaines). Mr. Joens asked if the department was a
city department or a separate taxing body. Mr. Boots said it was a city department. Mr. Joens
made a motion to approve application 18:002C. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The
motion carried. Approved unanimously.
18:003C – 18:009C – Cook Co. Circuit Clerk Judicial Circuit. Phil Costello from the Cook
County Circuit Clerk’s Office explained how the court system operates differently when it
comes to records management than other units of local government. He said what the
commission was actually voting on today were Cook County Circuit Clerk disposal certificates
and that commission approval was needed before the Administrative Office of the Courts
would approve the disposal. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve applications 18:003C –

 18:009C as submitted. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved
unanimously.

Amendments:
07:040C – Orland School District #135 (Orland Park). Ms. Dabizljevic asked that a typo to
the title on item #7 be corrected. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve addition of item #7 to
application 07:040C as amended. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. Approved
unanimously.
Public Comment:
There was no public comment.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled
for 11:00 AM on Tuesday, February 13, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central
Management Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R.
Thompson Center, 100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois, and the CMS Video Conference
Center located in the LLCC – Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield,
Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Mr. Joens moved that the meeting adjourn. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion
carried. Approved unanimously.

Minutes submitted by: Pamela Waggoner, Records Management Section.

 