LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
June 12, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:08 A.M. by Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission; Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee; Ivana Dabizljevic for
Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon, City
of Chicago designee.
Members Absent: None.
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: David Joens, Director of State Archives and designee for Jesse White,
Secretary of State.
Members Absent: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Staff Present: Bob Boots, Carol Moreno.
The minutes of the May 08, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County
were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
Mr. Joens informed the commission the legislative session for the Illinois General Assembly has
finished. He said he knew of no bills that passed that affected the Local Records Act.
Mr. Joens and Mr. Boots said they had nothing new to report on the Chicago Police Department.
NEW BUSINESS:
Applications
The following new applications were discussed:

 18:021C – Cook County Forest Preserves, Office of the General Superintendent (Chicago).
Ms. Norton stated that 18:021C and 18:022C were the last two applications for the Forest
Preserve District. Mr. Joens congratulated Ms. Norton on a job nicely done. The commission
reviewed the application. It was referenced that a parenthesis was missing in the record series
title for item #18. Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve the application. Mr. Peters
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously.
18:022C – Forest Preserve District, Fleet & Facilities Department (Maywood). The commission
reviewed the application and inquired on the rationale for the record retention assigned to item
#12. Mr. Boots explained to the commission that the records include expenditures for
construction projects that are paid for by the motor fuel tax. Mr. Boots added that construction
records and motor fuel tax records both have the same retention, functionally are associated with
road maintenance and tax, and are required by IDOT to be regarded the same for audit purposes.
It was mentioned that general construction records that are not paid for by the motor fuel tax are
kept separately and have the same retention. The volume of records for item #12 was observed
as minimal. Mr. Peters suggested inserting 1MB volume to item #2. Ms. McKee made a motion
to approve 18:022C as amended. Mr. Joens seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously.
Add-ons:
The following application add-ons were discussed:
05:008C – Hometown Police Department (Hometown). The commission reviewed add-on items
#63-69 for the application and amendment items #24, 27 and 28 for the application. Mr. Joens
made a motion to approve the add-ons and amendments to 05:008C as submitted. Mr. Peters
seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously.
15:002C – Northern Suburban Special Recreation Association (Northbrook). The commission
reviewed add-on items #54-62 for the application. Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve the
add-ons for 15:002C as submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously.
18:001C – Village of Palatine, Planning and Zoning (Palatine). The commission reviewed addon items #1000-1005 for the application. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the add-ons for
18:001C as submitted. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously.
18:015C – City of Chicago, Office of the Inspector General (Chicago). The commission
reviewed add-on item #29 for the application. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the add-on
for 18:015C as submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion was approved
unanimously.
95:037C – Village of Bartlett (Bartlett). The commission reviewed add-on item #89 for the
application. Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the add-on for 95:037C as submitted. Ms.
McKee seconded the motion. The motion was approved unanimously.

 Public Comment: There were no public comments.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday July 10, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central Management Services’
Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R. Thompson Center, 100 West
Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the LLCC-Capital
City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Ms. McKee made a motion to adjourn. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion was
approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Carol J. Moreno, Records Management Section.

 