LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
April 10, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:06 A.M. by Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission; Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee; Ivana Dabizljevic for
Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon,
City of Chicago designee.
Members Absent: None
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
David Joens, Director of State Archives and designee for Jesse White, Secretary of State;
Members Present: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent: None
Staff Present: Bob Boots, Pamela Waggoner, Karen Mizeur, Carol Moreno.
The minutes of the March 13, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County
were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
Mr. Joens informed the commission that he and Mr. Boots attended a Chicago Police Department
training meeting with Joseph F. Perfetti, the Director of Police Records.
In the meeting they discussed how to proceed with the backlog of personnel records disposals
that have been in a “hold” status and the need to receive a new application. It was noted that any
records with a legal hold (i.e. discipline records) will not be approved for disposal.
Steps to resolve the issues have been taken and although it will not be a quick process, Mr. Joens
mentioned he was very pleased with the outcome of the meeting.

 NEW BUSINESS:
Applications
The following new applications were discussed:
18:015C – City of Chicago Office Of The Inspector General (Chicago). Mr. Joens and Ms.
Norton discussed the following edits for the application: (i) addition of “public notices and
newspaper articles”, (ii) general term “social media” removed and (iii) retention period modified
to reflect “one year”. It was noted that applications should reflect only the minimum amount of
time required to retain the records. Ms. Norton had spoken with the department about their
administration period and based on her recommendation, their original request for a permanent
retention period was changed to one year. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve application
18:015C as amended. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion was carried. Approved
unanimously.
18:016C – Forest Preserves District of Cook County, Landscape Maintenance (Maywood). Mr.
Joens and Ms. Norton discussed the following edits for the application: (i) addition of the word
“copies” to the title and (ii) spelling correction for the word “unsolicited”. Mr. Joens indicated
the recommendation for this agency is to retain records for ten years. Our copies show one year
and will need to be changed accordingly. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve 18:016C as
amended. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion was carried. Approved unanimously.
18:017C – Forest Preserves District-Finance Department (Chicago). Mr. Joens inquired on the
number of departments. Ms. Norton responded there are a total of eleven and seven have
applications finished. Mr. Joens congratulated Ms. Norton on a job well done. Mr. Joens made a
motion to approve 18:017C. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved
unanimously.
Add-ons:
The following application add-ons were discussed:
15:031C – R.A.I.L.S (Bur Ridge). Mr. Joens mentioned this was one of his favorites agencies.
They are located right across from the Du Page line. It was mentioned that previously the
agency was classified as downstate. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve 15:031C. Ms. McKee
seconded the motion. The motion was carried. Approved unanimously.
95:037C – Village of Bartlett (Bartlett). Mr. Joens mentioned both add-ons were considered
standard. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve 95:037C. Ms. McKee seconded the motion.
The motion was carried. Approved unanimously.
Amendments:
There were no amendments.

 Public Comment: There were no public comments.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday, May 8, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central Management Services’
Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R. Thompson Center, 100 West
Randolph, Chicago, Illinois, and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the LLCC –
Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Mr. Joens moved that the meeting adjourn. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion
carried. Approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Pamela Waggoner and Carol J. Moreno, Records Management Section.

 