LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
October 09, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:00 A.M. by Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission; Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon, City of Chicago designee.
Members Absent: Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee; Ivana Dabizljevic
for Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller;
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian; David Joens, Director of
Illinois State Archives and designee for Secretary of State Jesse White.
Members Absent: None.
Staff Present: Robert Boots, Chief Deputy Director of Illinois State Archives; Carol J. Moreno,
Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.
The minutes of the September 11, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook
County were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
Mr. Joens said there was nothing new to report on the Chicago Police Department.
NEW BUSINESS:
Mr. Joens said there are two Records Archivists supporting Cook County: Deneena Norton and
Steve Colaizzi. Ms. Norton is located in the Central Chicago area and her close proximity allows
for regular attendance at the meetings. Mr. Colaizzi does not attend the meetings due to his
remote distance from the meeting site (West Chicago). It was noted that any application
questions provided ahead of the meetings are appreciated to provide time for Mr. Collaizzi to
answer the inquiries.

 New Applications
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following new applications:
18:030C–Elk Grove Township Offices (Elk Grove).
Mr. Peters proposed some corrections to typographical errors he found in the application.
He asked about the second retention for records series: Minutes and Agendas (All Boards,
Committees, Commissions, Group, Etc.), item #44. Mr. Peters mentioned that one year
retentions for copies of minutes and agendas has been used before in other applications and
inquired whether it was missing for this item. Mr. Joens explained that copies are not considered
records. He added that inclusion of a second retention for copies was discontinued this year.
The one retention remains: “Retain originals permanently”.
There was also a discussion about a few application items pertaining to receipts and plats:
1.

Mr. Peters asked why “Gas Receipts” was a separate item. He asked if the receipts
should be included with the record series: Receipts (All Types), item #56. Mr. Joens
stated that the agency files its gas receipts with the township’s truck records.

2.

Mr. Peters asked about why plats were included in both item #42 (Maps, Plats,
Blueprints) and item #51 (Plat Books and Aerial Maps). Mr. Boots said they were two
different records of plats used in two different ways.

3.

Mr. Peters asked about the word “Receipts” for records series title: Statement of
Economic Interest Lists and Receipts, item #63. Mr. Peter’s asked if these should be
included with item #56 Receipts (All Types). Mr. Joens said these types of receipts are
for purchases but are provided to the agency when it files Statements of Economic
Interest with the County Clerk’s Office.

Mr. Joens proposed deletion of the words “then dispose of” for the second retention of record
series: Legal Case Files, item #40. The retention will read as: “Retain legal opinions
permanently.”
Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the application as amended. Mr. Joens seconded the
motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
18:031C–Rolling Meadows Firefighter’s Pension Fund (Rolling Meadows).
Mr. Peters proposed two updates to the application.
1.

The correction of a date typo on the cover page. The date will read as: “10/9/2018”.

2.

The insertion of “1MB” to the volume of record series, Administrative Files and
Miscellaneous Correspondence, Including Email Classified as General Correspondence
and Not Related To Another Records Series, Reference Materials, and Publications,
ETC., item #3.

Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the application as amended. Mr. Peters seconded the
motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.

 Application Add-Ons & Amendments:
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following add-ons &
amendments:
07:021C–Lyons Police Department (Lyons). There were ten application amendments (#4.1,
#5.1, #12.1, #17.1, #34.1, #36.1, #37.1, #48.1, #49.1, #80.1) and one application add-on (#83.1).
Mr. Peters proposed one update:
1.

Insertion “1MB” to the volume of record series, Administrative Files and Miscellaneous
Correspondence, Including Email Classified as General Correspondence and Not
Related To Another Records Series, Reference Materials, and Publications, ETC., item
#5.1.

Mr. Joens proposed two updates:
1.

The correction of a document formatting issue that hid the title text in record series:
Freedom of Information Act Requests and Denials, item #36.1.

2.

The addition of a comma after the word “anticipated” in the first retention for record
series: Video and/or D.V.D. Records (Surveillance, Bookings, Squads, Etc.), item #80.1.
The retention will read as: “Retain recordings of bookings for seven (7) days, if no
litigation is pending or anticipated, retain for thirty (30) days after closure of case, then
dispose of.”

Mr. Peters made a motion to approve all amendments as updated and the add-on as submitted for
07:021C. Mr. Joens seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
18:001C–Village of Palatine (Palatine). There were thirty application add-ons: (items: #1006
and #1300-1328).
Mr. Peters proposed three updates:
1.

The insertion of “1MB” to the volume of record series: Administrative Files and
Miscellaneous Correspondence, Including Email Classified as General Correspondence
and Not Related To Another Records Series, Reference Materials, and Publications,
ETC., item #1300.

2.

Replacement of the word “devise” with “device” to correct a contextual spelling error in
the title for record series: Backflow Prevention Devise Test Records, item #1301.

3.

Deletion of the slash in the second retention for record series: Well Repair and
Maintenance Records, item #1327.

Mr. Joens proposed two updates:
1.

The insertion of the word “Permits” to the end of record series, I.D.O.T., item #1307.
The title will read as, “I.D.O.T. Permits”.

2.

For record series, Minutes and Agendas (Traffic, Beautification, ETC), item #1309:

 o

Deletion of the words in parenthesis “(Traffic, Beautification, ETC)” from the title
so that it reads as, “Minutes and Agendas”.

o

Deletion of second retention, “Retain duplicates for one (1) year, then dispose of”.

Mr. Joens made a motion to approve all add-ons for 18:001C as amended. Mr. Hunt seconded
the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
18:023C–Northwest Water Commission (Des Plaines). There were three application add-ons
(items: #34-36) and one application amendment (item #16). Mr. Joens made a motion to
approve all add-ons and the amendment for 18:023C as they were submitted. Mr. Peters
seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
18:029C–Cook County Adult Probation Department and Pretrial Services (Chicago).
There was one application amendment (item #39). Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the
amendment for 18:029C as submitted. Mr. Joens seconded the motion. The motion carried and
was approved unanimously.
Public Comment: There were no public comments.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday November 13, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC-Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Mr. Joens made a motion to adjourn. Mr. Hunt seconded the motion. The motion carried and
was approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Carol J. Moreno, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.

 