LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
May 08, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:05 A.M. by David Joens, Director of State Archives and designee for Jesse White, Secretary
of State. Mr. Joens asked leave of the body to serve as chair due to the absence of chair Martha
Martinez. Leave was granted.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee; Ivana Dabizljevic
for Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon,
City of Chicago designee.
Members Absent: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission.
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: David Joens, Director of State Archives and designee for Jesse White,
Secretary of State.
Members Absent: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Staff Present: Bob Boots, Carol Moreno.
The minutes of the April 10, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County
were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Joens provided updates for the “Members Absent” and
“Staff Present” sections. Ms. McKee made a motion to approve the minutes as amended. Ms.
Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion was carried and approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
Mr. Joens informed the commission that discussions are continuing with the Chicago Police
Department regarding several record disposal and application matters. He also reported that
there are very few bills before the legislature that affect the Local Records Act and none of them
appear to be going anywhere. Mr. Joens said a copy of the final legislative report will be
available in June.
NEW BUSINESS:
Applications

 The following new applications were discussed:
18:018C – Bartlett Police Pension Fund (Bartlett). Mr. Joens mentioned that input provided by
Mr. Peters prior to the meeting has been incorporated into the application. The commission
reviewed the application. Ms. McKee made a motion to approve 18:018C as submitted. Mr.
Peters seconded the motion. The motion was carried and approved unanimously.
18:019C – Forest Preserve District of Cook County – Resource Management Department
(River Forest). Mr. Joens mentioned that input provided by Mr. Peters prior to the meeting has
been incorporated into the application. The commission reviewed the application. Mr. Joens
provided additional edits as follows: (i) agency name correction (ii) insertion of 1MB volume for
item 2 (iii) modification of record title (remove “electronic”) for items: 7, 30, 31, 33 and 36.
Mr. Joens proposed updating the Application For Authority To Dispose of Local Records
template for all items aforementioned throughout existing application work in scope and going
forward. Ms. McKee noted that Forest Preserve should be singular on the cover sheets of both
application 18:019C and application 18:020C. Mr. Peters made a motion to approve 18:019C as
amended. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion was carried and approved
unanimously.
18:020C – Forest Preserve District of Cook County – Conservation & Experiential Programs
(Oak Park). Mr. Joens mentioned that input provided by Mr. Peters prior to the meeting has been
incorporated into the application. Mr. Joens provided additional edits as follows: (i) agency name
correction (ii) insertion of 1MB volume for item 2 (iii) modification of retention period to reflect
“two years” for item 9 and (iv) modification of record title (remove “electronic”) for item 23.
Ms. McKee made a motion to approve application 18:020C as amended. Mr. Peters seconded
the motion. The motion was carried and approved unanimously.
Add-ons:
The following application add-ons were discussed:
12:006C Item 119 – La Grange Police Department (La Grange). The commission reviewed the
proposed add-on. Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve 12:006C as submitted. Ms. McKee
seconded the motion. The motion was carried and approved unanimously.
Amendments:
The following application amendments were discussed:
15:001C Item 1113 – METRA (Chicago). The commission reviewed the proposed amendment.
Mr. Peters made a motion to approve 15:001C as submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion.
The motion was carried and approved unanimously.
Public Comment: There were no public comments.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday, June 12, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central Management

 Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois, and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC – Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Ms. McKee moved that the meeting adjourn. Mr. Peter’s seconded the motion. The motion was
carried and approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Carol J. Moreno, Records Management Section.

 