LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
February 13, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:06 A.M. by Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission; Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee; Ivana Dabizljevic for
Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller.
Members Absent: Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannion, City of Chicago designee.
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: David Joens, Director of State Archives and designee for Jesse White,
Secretary of State; Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent:
Staff Present: Bob Boots, Pamela Waggoner.
The minutes of the January 9, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County
were reviewed by the Commission. Chair Martinez said the minutes should reflect that there is
a vacancy for the City of Chicago appointee. Mr. Joens said the minutes will be changed. He
said the city has made an appointment to the commission but that the appointee, Michael Peters
from the Harold Washington Library, was unable to attend today’s meeting. Mr. Joens made a
motion to approve the minutes as amended. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion
carried. Approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
Mr. Joens said the commission has not heard from the Chicago Police Department about its
retentions.
Mr. Joens said it is only one week into the legislative session and he hasn’t seen any legislation
related to the Local Records Act.

NEW BUSINESS:
Applications:
18:001C – Village of Palatine (Palatine). Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve
application 18:001C. Mr. Joens seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved
unanimously.

 18:010C – Forest Preserves District of Cook County-Permits, Rental, and Concessions (River
Forest). Ms. McKee made a motion to approve application 18:010C as submitted. Ms.
Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved unanimously. Mr. Joens noted
that usually the local records commission does not approve applications piece by piece by
department but said that was how we are approving the eleven departments of the Forest
Preserve District and he said the system is working well. He praised Ms. Norton for making
this happen. Chair Martinez noted that the Cook County President’s office has increased its
emphasis on proper records management techniques for all county departments and agencies,
including updating records schedules and filing disposal certificates.
18:011C – Lemont Fire Protection District Fire Prevention Bureau (Lemont). Mr. Joens made
a motion to approve application 18:011C as submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The
motion carried. Approved unanimously.
18:012C – Lemont Fire Protection District Board of Fire Commissioners (Lemont). Mr. Joens
made a motion to approve application 18:012C as submitted. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the
motion. The motion carried. Approved unanimously.
18:013C – Lemont Fire Protection District Pension Fund (Lemont). Mr. Joens made a motion
to approve application 18:013C as submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion
carried. Approved unanimously.
18:014C – Cook County Forest Preserve District-Planning and Development (River Forest).
Mr. Joens noted a couple of minor corrections in the recommendations. Ms. McKee made a
motion to approve applications 18:014C with typo correction to Items #10 and #18. Mr. Joens
seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved unanimously.

Public Comment: There was no public comment.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled
for 11:00 AM on Tuesday, March 13, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois, and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC – Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Mr. Joens moved that the meeting adjourn. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion
carried. Approved unanimously.

Minutes submitted by: Pamela Waggoner, Records Management Section.

 