LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
September 11, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:00 A.M. by Martha Martinez, Chairman, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair
of the Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission; Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee; Ivana Dabizljevic for
Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon, City
of Chicago designee.
Members Absent: None.
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian; David Joens, Director of
Illinois State Archives and designee for Jesse White.
Members Absent: None.
Staff Present: Robert Boots, Chief Deputy Director of Illinois State Archives; Carol J. Moreno,
Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.
The minutes of the July 10, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County
were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
None.
NEW BUSINESS:
Applications
The following new applications were discussed:

 18:024C–Cicero Police Pension Trust Fund (Cicero).
Mr. Peters proposed the deletion of record series title, Bank Statements, item #5 because it is
included in record series title, Canceled Checks, Bank Statements, and Deposit Slips, item #9.
Mr. Joens proposed two updates to the application.
1.

The insertion of the words “after expiration of policy” to the first retention of record series
title, Insurance Policies and Claims, item #18. The retention will read as “Retain policies
that cover sexual misconduct for sixty (60) years after expiration of policy, then dispose
of”. Ms. Norton concurred with Mr. Joens indicating the language is used per standard
policy.

2.

The insertion of the word “minutes” to the first retention of record series title, Minutes and
Agendas Including Cassette Audio, item #23. The first retention will read as “Retain
original minutes permanently.” Mr. Joens also mentioned the numerical sequence will
need to be corrected, i.e. there are two item #23s.

Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the application as amended. Mr. Peters seconded the
motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
18:025C–Cook County Department of Environment and Sustainability (Chicago).
Mr. Joens proposed two retention updates for record series title, Inventory and Equipment
Records, item #18.
1.

The insertion of the words “Equipment Records” to the first retention. The first retention
will read as “Retain Equipment Records for two (2) years, then dispose of”.

2.

The addition of a second retention to read as “Retain Inventory Records for two (2) years
after inventory superseded, then dispose of”.

Mr. Joens noted the inventory longevity for sample files was unspecified. He proposed the
addition of a third retention for record series title, PM2.5 Data Reports Including Archived
Sample Files, item #22. The third retention will read as “Retain sample files for two (2) years,
then dispose of”.
Mr. Peters called attention to the fact that email record digital volume was measured precisely by
the agency. He questioned why 1MB was routinely used in estimating the email record digital
volume for agencies when the volume could be less or significantly more. Mr. Boots said 1MB
establishes a median inventory baseline for digital volume. He also indicated that most agencies
are small and don’t have the internal resources to discern, measure and track exchange server
data that by design is variable. Mr. Joens noted that larger agencies have a sizeable email digital
volume baseline.
Ms. McKee made a motion to approve the application as amended. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded
the motion. Ms. Martinez declared her abstention since she oversees the application’s agency
department. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.

 18:026C–Cooperative Computer Services (Arlington Heights).
Mr. Peters proposed four updates to the application:
1.

The insertion of the word “Suite” before the letter J and relocation of both entries to the
end of the address line on the application’s cover page. The agency address line will read
as “3355 N. Arlington Heights Road, Suite J”.

2.

The insertion of “1MB” to the volume of record series title, Administrative Files and
Miscellaneous Correspondence, Including Email Classified as General Correspondence
and Not Related To Another Records Series, Reference Materials, and Publications,
ETC., item #3.

3.

The correction of a typo in the first word of record series title, Questionaires, Evaluations
and Surveys, item #34. The title will read as “Questionnaires, Evaluations and Surveys”.

4.

The insertion of a dash in the second abbreviation (between letter I and number 9) found
in record series title, U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service Form I9 Employment
Eligibility Verification Forms, item #39. The abbreviation will read as “I-9”.

Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the application as amended. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the
motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
18:027C–Burbank Police Pension Fund (Burbank).
Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve the application as submitted. Ms. McKee seconded
the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
18:028C–Central Stickney School District #110 (Chicago).
Mr. Peters proposed the insertion of “1MB” to the volume of record series title, Administrative
Files and Miscellaneous Correspondence, Including Email Classified as General
Correspondence and Not Related To Another Records Series, Reference Materials, and
Publications, ETC., item #2.
Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve the application as amended. Mr. Peters seconded the
motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
18:029C–Cook County Adult Probation Department and Pretrial Services (Chicago).
Ms. Norton proposed three updates for record series title, Adult Probation Case Files and Case
Assignment Records, item #4.
1.

The insertion of the words “Case Files” to the first retention. The first retention will read
as “Retain Case Files for five (5) years after closure, then dispose of”.

2.

The insertion of the words “Vacated Files” to the second retention. The second retention
will read as “Retain Vacated Files for three (3) years after vacated, then dispose of”.

3.

The insertion of the word “all” to the third retention. The third retention will read as
“Retain all copies for one (1) year, then dispose of”.

 Mr. Peters proposed two updates to the application:
1.

The correction of a typo in the second word of record series title, Case Summeries and
Inventory, item #12. The title will read as “Case Summaries and Inventory”.

2.

The correction of a typo in the third word of record series title, Illinois Court Subsity
Reimbursement Records and Expenditure Worksheets, item #21. The title will read as
“Illinois Court Subsidy Reimbursement Records and Expenditure Worksheets”.

Mr. Joens proposed four updates to the application:
1.

The pluralization of the second word in record series title, Cash Receipt, item #13. The
title will read as “Cash Receipts”.

2.

After discussion with the commission, a change was withdrawn that was proposed for the
retention of record series title, Financial Records-(Ledgers, Journals, Deposit Slips, Bank
Statements, Checks), item #18. It was decided the current retention was sufficient since
the records in question were lists with closed dates.

3.

Before the word internship, add the word “of” to the retention for record series title,
Internship Employee Files, item #23. The retention will read as “Retain for five (5) years
after completion of internship, then dispose of.”

4.

A change to the retention for record series title, Open Account and Outstanding Balance
List, item #28. The retention will read as “Retain for seven (7) years, then dispose of”

The commission discussed the retention recommendation for Savings Bond List, item #39. It was
decided to change the date to 2013 and to defer the retention until clarification is provided by the
agency on the particular type of bonds they have, i.e. agency or employee.
Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the application as amended with item #39 deferred.
Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
Add-ons:
The following application add-ons were discussed:
13:012C–Lincolnwood S.D.#74 (Lincolnwood). The commission reviewed add-on item #166
for the application. Mr. Joens made a motion to approve the add-on to 13:012C as submitted.
Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
96:011C–Village of Wheeling (Wheeling). The commission reviewed add-on item #2.137 for
the application. Ms. Martinez made a motion to approve the add-ons for 96:011C as submitted.
Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
Amendments
The following application amendments were discussed:

 17:022C–Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office (Chicago). The commission reviewed three
application amendments: #303, #307 and #309 and one add-on item #316. Ms. Norton stated
that amendment #303 should be changed to read as “Misdemeanor Files”. Mr. Joens made a
motion to approve all amendments and the add-on for 17:022C as amended. Ms. Dabizljevic
seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
Public Comment: There were no public comments.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday October 9, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC-Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Ms. Martinez made a motion to adjourn. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion
carried and was approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Carol J. Moreno, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.

 