LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
March 13, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:06 A.M. by Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and chair of the
Commission; David Joens, Director of State Archives and designee for Jesse White, Secretary
of State; Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee; Ivana Dabizljevic for
Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon,
City of Chicago designee.
Members Absent:
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent:
Staff Present: Bob Boots, Pamela Waggoner, Karen Mizeur.
The minutes of the February 13, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook
County were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Joens noted that Mr. Peterson needed to be
added to the minutes under “Members Absent.” Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve the
minutes as amended. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved
unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
Mr. Joens said the commission has not heard from the Chicago Police Department about its
retentions. We have been talking to them about conducting a training session in Chicago for
them on records management. Mr. Joens also gave an update on legislation currently before the
General Assembly that affects the Local Records Act. He said right now there are three bills
that seek to amend the Local Records Act. Mr. Joens said the State Archives is opposing these
bills not because of what the bills seek to do but because they don’t belong under the Local
Records Act.
NEW BUSINESS:
Add-ons:
17:026C – Forest Preserves District-Legal Department (Chicago). Mr. Joens made a motion to
approve the addition of items #20-24 to application 17:026C. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the
motion. The motion carried. Approved unanimously.

 18:001C – Village of Palatine/Information Technology (Palatine). Ms. Dabizljevic made a
motion to approve the addition of items #20-24 to application 17:026C. Mr. Joens seconded the
motion. The motion carried. Approved unanimously.

Amendments:
06:046C – Lyons Township Offices (Countryside). Mr. Joens made a motion to accept the
amendments to items #100.4, 100.11, 100.36, 100.37, 100.50, 100.58, 100.73, 100.86 to
application 06:046C. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried. Approved
unanimously.

Public Comment: There was no public comment.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled
for 11:00 AM on Tuesday, April 10, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois, and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC – Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Mr. Joens moved that the meeting adjourn. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion
carried. Approved unanimously.

Minutes submitted by: Pamela Waggoner, Records Management Section.

 