LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION
OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
July 10, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:00 A.M. by Carlos Claudio, Chairman Pro Tem, appointed by Martha Martinez, Cook County
Board President’s designee and Chair of the Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Carlos Claudio on behalf of Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s
designee and Chair of the Commission; Kathy McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee;
Ivana Dabizljevic for Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller; Michael Peters on behalf
of Brian Bannon, City of Chicago designee.
Members Absent: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission.
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian; Brenda Glahn on behalf of
David Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and designee for Jesse White.
Members Absent: David Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and designee for Jesse White.
Staff Present: Robert Boots, Chief Deputy Director of Illinois State Archives; Carol J. Moreno,
Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.
The minutes of the June 12, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County
were reviewed by the Commission. Ms. McKee made a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted. Ms. Glahn seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
None.
NEW BUSINESS:
The following designees are assigned for the purpose of today’s meeting:
Mr. Carlos Claudio appointed as Chairman Pro Tem by Martha Martinez, Cook County
Board President’s Designee and Chair of the Commission.

 Ms. Brenda Glahn appointed as Secretary of State Designee and voting member of the
commission by Secretary of State Jesse White.
Applications
The following new applications were discussed:
18:023C–Northwest Water Commission (Des Plaines). Mr. Peters proposed that 1 MB volume
be added to item #3 and noted a typo in the recommendation for item #6. Mr. Peters made a
motion to approve the application as amended. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The
motion carried and was approved unanimously.
Add-ons:
The following application add-ons were discussed:
12:006C–LaGrange Police Department (LaGrange). The commission reviewed add-on item
#120 for the application. Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to approve the add-on to 12:006C as
submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
18:001C–Village of Palatine (Palatine). The commission reviewed add-on items #1100-1132 and
#1200-1206 for the application. Mr. Peters noted a typo in the record series title for item #1116
and a typo in the record series date for item #1203. Ms. Glahn made a motion to approve the
add-ons for 18:001C as amended. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was
approved unanimously.
89:035C–Village of South Chicago Heights (South Chicago Heights). The commission reviewed
add-on items #108-112 for the application. Ms. Glahn made a motion to approve the add-ons for
89:035C as submitted. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
Public Comment: There were no public comments.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday August 14, 2018 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-036 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC-Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion to adjourn. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried
and was approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Carol J. Moreno, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.

 