th
March 13
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:30 AM: Commenced at 10:50 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (3/13/2019)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”.

ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Alejandro S
Johnny Miller, Robert Patterson, Andre Youngblood, Kevin Irvine.

CITIZEN ADVISORY BOARD PRESENTATION: CAB member Alicia Berg reported on the activities of t
Citizens Advisory Board
th
COMMENDATIONS: President Carter introduced recipients of the
, 2019
March
Commendation
13
awards.

th
Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to recess the regular Board meeting
, 2019,
of March
to allow
13
for the Committee of Finance, Audit, and Budget to conduct business. After being moved and sec
the motion was approved with seven yes votes.

After the Committee on Finance, Audit, and Budget adjourned, Chairman Peterson asked for a mot
re-convene the March, 2019 Chicago Transit Board regular meeting. After being moved and secon
the motion was approved with seven yes votes.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
th
February 13
, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with six yes votes an
abstention (Irvine).
PUBLIC COMMENT: Andy Sturgis

EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board convened into Executive Session, pursuant to the Open Meetings

Upon re-convening from executive session, the Board took up the three executive session agenda
Chairman Peterson asked for three separate motions: to approve Board Agenda Item # 6
ordinance authorizing execution of a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steel Worke
America, Local 9777; to approve Board Agenda Item # 6-B, an ordinance authorizing pay
relocation expenses
and propertyacquisitionfor propertylocatedat 5619-5625
and 5657North
BroadwayAvenue,Chicago,Illinois;and to approveBoard AgendaItem # 6-C, a settlement
recommendation of $12,500,000 in the Cook County Circuit Court Case no. 16 L 008093, Bruce Po
Chicago Transit Authority and Ivan Duncan. Each of the three executive session motions was mov
seconded, and approved with seven yes votes.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Chairman Alejandro Silva presented t
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (March) report on Finance, and approved the Februa
13th, 2019 committee meeting minutes.
1

 Mr. Silva also stated that all other Committee agenda items, listed on the Committee Agenda, wer
presented, reviewed, discussed, placed on the omnibus, and recommended for Board approval. M
Silva concluded his report.

Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Silva. After b
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with seven yes votes.
All approved March 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-21 through 019-27.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney presented the Construction Repo
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations
made to the Chicago Transit Board”, (March 2019), “Construction Report”.
th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, the
2019
March
Chicago
13
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

2

 