LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
February 13, 2019
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:00 A.M. by Dave Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and designee for Jesse White.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon, City of Chicago designee; Kathy
McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee.
Members Absent: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission; Ivana Dabizljevic for Lawrence L. Wilson, Cook County Comptroller.
Staff Present: None.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: David Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and Secretary of State
designee; Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent: None.
Staff Present: Robert Boots, Chief Deputy Director of Illinois State Archives; Sandra Lucas,
Senior Records Archivist; Carol J. Moreno, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.
Mr. Joens requested leave of the body to serve as Chair for the purposes of today’s meeting.
Leave was granted
The minutes of the December 11, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook
County were reviewed by the Commission. Ms. McKee made a motion to approve the minutes
as submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
None.
NEW BUSINESS:
Mr. Joens noted there is a Records Archivist position vacancy in the Illinois State Archives with
the departure of Deneena Norton. He said that the commission’s business may be slow until the
position is filled. Mr. Joens also provided an overview of the position’s job requirements and
qualifications and said if commission members know of any qualified people for the job that they
have them contact the Secretary of State’s office.

 New Applications
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following new applications:
19:001C–North Shore Mosquito Abatement District (Northfield). Mr. Joens proposed
one update for record series, Administrative Files & Miscellaneous Correspondence,
Including Email Classified As General Correspondence And Not Related To Another Record
Series, Reference Materials, Publications, ETC., item #2.
1.

To include the electronic volume of records, a slash “ / ” is to be placed after cubic feet
followed by the words “Less than 1 Terabyte” when the agency is unable to determine
the volume of their electronic records. Mr. Joens said that staff should standardize as a
business practice, the inclusion of volume for both paper and digital records on their
applications going forward.

Mr. Peters proposed two updates to the application:
1.

To correct a grammatical error, a comma is to be placed after the word ‘Contracts’ in the
record series title of item #13. The record series title will read as: Contracts, Leases and
Agreements for Goods or Services (Includes IGA’s).

2.

For consistency, the number of years are to be written followed by the numerical digits in
parenthesis, for the retention of record series, Personnel Files, item #29. Mr. Boots noted
that the word processing Macro for this retention, coded as PERS, will also be updated.
The retention will read as follows:
Retain individual work and salary history records for sixty (60) years or until terminated
employee’s seventy-eighth (78) birthday, whichever occurs first, then dispose of. If the
employee has not retired by age seventy-eight (78), retain individual work and salary history
records for ten (10) years after termination of employment, then dispose of. Retain all other
records within this record series for five (5) years after termination of employment, then
dispose of. If the employee is deceased retain for five (5) years after date of death, then
dispose of provided no litigation is pending or anticipated. If litigation is pending retain
until conclusion of all judicial action (including appeals), then dispose of.

Mr. Hunt made a motion to approve 19:001C as amended. Mr. Peters seconded the motion.
The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
19:002C–Stickney Board of Police and Fire Commission (Stickney). Mr. Joens proposed
that two of the same updates approved for 19:001C be made for 19:002C. Specifically, the
inclusion of the electronic volume for record series, Administrative Files & Miscellaneous
Correspondence … … ETC, item #2 and the update to the retention for record series, Personnel
Files, item #9. Ms. McKee made a motion to approve 19:002C as amended. Mr. Hunt
seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
19:003C–Cook County Circuit Clerk, Cook Judicial Circuit. Mr. Peters made a motion to
approve 19:003C as submitted. Mr. Hunt seconded the motion. The motion carried and was
approved unanimously.

 19:004C–Cook County Clerk of the Appellate Court First District. Ms. McKee made a
motion to approve 19:004C as submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried
and was approved unanimously.
Application Add-Ons and Amendments
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following add-ons & amendments:
15:024C–Lansing Police Department (Chicago). There were two application add-ons
(items: #29 and #30). Mr. Peters made a motion to approve both add-ons as submitted for
15:024C. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
84:040C–Northfield Township (Glenview). There was one application add-on (item: #91).
Mr. Hunt made a motion to approve the add-on as submitted for 84:040C. Ms. McKee
seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
10:007C–Northlake Police Department (Northlake). There was one application amendment
(item: #424). Mr. Hunt made a motion to approve the amendment as submitted for 10:007C.
Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
None.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday March 12, 2019 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-035 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC-Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Mr. Hunt made a motion to adjourn. Ms. McKee seconded the motion. The motion carried and
was approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Carol J. Moreno, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.

 