LOCAL RECORDS COMMISSION OF COOK COUNTY
Minutes
December 11, 2018
A meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County was held in the State of Illinois
Video Conferencing Centers in Springfield and Chicago. The meeting was called to order at
11:00 A.M. by Martha Martinez, Chairman, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair
of the Commission.
CHICAGO SITE:
Members Present: Martha Martinez, Cook County Board President’s designee and Chair of the
Commission; Michael Peters on behalf of Brian Bannon, City of Chicago designee; Kathy
McKee, Cook County State’s Attorney’s designee; Ivana Dabizljevic for Lawrence L. Wilson,
Cook County Comptroller;
Members Absent: None.
Staff Present: Deneena Norton, Records Archivist.
SPRINGFIELD SITE:
Members Present: Ian Hunt, designee for the Illinois State Historian.
Members Absent: David Joens, Director of Illinois State Archives and designee for Jesse White.
Staff Present: Robert Boots, Chief Deputy Director of Illinois State Archives; Carol J. Moreno,
Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.
The minutes of the October 09, 2018 meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County
were reviewed by the Commission. Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the minutes as
submitted. Mr. Hunt seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
None.
NEW BUSINESS:
Secretary of State Designee
Ms. Brenda Glahn is appointed as Secretary of State Designee and voting member of the
commission by Illinois Secretary of State Jesse White for the purpose of today’s meeting.
2019 Proposed Meeting Dates
Ms. Martinez accepted the proposed 2019 schedule and acknowledged receipt in file.

 Retention Research
Mr. Boots informed the commission that several cook county police departments have requested
an update to the standard retention for Adult/Juvenile Arrest Case Files. The update includes the
addition of the following two record categories:
1.

Retain arrest case files for all misdemeanor crimes for three (3) years after closure of
case, then dispose.

2.

Retain offense case files for all crimes in which there is no arrests for one (1) year after
expiration of the statute of limitations, then dispose.

Ms. McKee made a motion to approve the update to the standard retention for Adult/Juvenile
Arrest Case Files. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
New Applications
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following new application:
18:032C–Lemont Fire Protection District (Lemont). Ms. McKee made a motion to
approve the new application as submitted. Ms. Glahn seconded the motion. The motion
carried and was approved unanimously.
Application Add-Ons and Amendments
The Local Records Commission of Cook County reviewed the following add-ons & amendments:
01:032C–Hickory Hills Park District (Hickory Hills). There were two application add-ons
(items: #79 and #80). Ms. McKee made a motion to approve all add-ons as submitted for
01:032C. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved
unanimously.
04:005C–Hoffman Estates Park District (Hoffman Estates). Mr. Peters proposed two
updates for the second retention in record series, Surveillance Recordings Hoffman Estate
Park District, item #80.
1.
2.

Addition of the word “thirty” after the words “recorded over/over written”
Enclosure of the number “30” in parentheses

The retention will read as “When the video recording captures no potentially probative
evidence; the recording may be recorded over/over written thirty (30) days after an approved
Disposal Certificate is in place.”
Ms. Glahn made a motion to approve the add-on for 04:005C as amended. Ms. McKee
seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.

 04:035C–Elk Grove Park District (Elk Grove). There was one application add-on (item:
#99). Ms. Glahn made a motion to approve the add-on for 04:035C as submitted. Ms. McKee
seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
12:008C–Western Springs Police Department (Western Springs). There was one
application add-on (item: #119). Mr. Peters made a motion to approve the add-on for
12:008C as submitted. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried and was
approved unanimously.
18:016C–Forest Preserves District – Landscape Maintenance (Maywood). There were
five application add-ons (items: #17, #18, #19, #20 and #21). Ms. McKee made a motion to
approve all add-ons for 18:016C as submitted. Mr. Peters seconded the motion. The motion
carried and was approved unanimously.
18:021C–Forest Preserves District Office of the General Superintendent (Chicago).
There were three application add-ons (items: #22, #23 and #24). Ms. Dabizljevic made a motion
to approve all add-ons for 18:021C as submitted. Ms. Glahn seconded the motion. The motion
carried and was approved unanimously. There were two application amendments (items: #12 and
#17). Mr. Peters made a motion to approve all amendments for 18:021C as submitted. Ms.
Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried and was approved unanimously.
11:029C–Village of Schaumburg/Police Department (Schaumburg). There was one
application amendment (item: #23A). Ms. McKee made a motion to approve the amendment
as submitted for 11:029C. Ms. Dabizljevic seconded the motion. The motion carried and was
approved unanimously.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
A public comment was given by Mr. Jon A. Duncan, General Counsel of the Housing Authority
of Cook County.
Mr. Boots mentioned that today’s meeting would be the last for Deneena Norton as a state
employee. He noted that she is starting a new position in the Cook County Records Center. Mr.
Boots thanked Ms. Norton for her years of service and wished her well in her new role.
The date of the next meeting of the Local Records Commission of Cook County is scheduled for
11:00 AM on Tuesday January 8, 2019 at the Illinois Department of Central Management
Services’ Video Conference Center located in Room 9-035 of the James R. Thompson Center,
100 West Randolph, Chicago, Illinois and the CMS Video Conference Center located in the
LLCC-Capital City Training Center at 130 West Mason, Springfield, Illinois.
ADJOURNMENT:
Ms. Glahn made a motion to adjourn. Mr. Hunt seconded the motion. The motion carried and
was approved unanimously.
Minutes submitted by: Carol J. Moreno, Administrative Clerk, Records Management Section.

 