Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
May 17, 2016, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for May 17, 2016
Commissioners present: George Bilicic, Blake Sercye (via phone), Cory Foster, Everett Rand and
Alejandra Garza
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Kate Schellinger,
Thomas Strachan, Terra Clark, Greg Wass, Lisa Esposito (Court Reporter), Kim Godda (Superior
Ambulance), David Hill (Ambulance), Carol S. McCarthy (Remedy) and Susan S. Stevens (Gazette)
Approval of Minutes
President Bilicic opened the meeting with a welcome to all of the guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu
took the roll call of Commissioners. Commissioner Rand moved and Commissioner Foster seconded
that the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote. Commissioner
Foster moved and Commissioner Rand seconded for Commissioner Sercye to participate via phone.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney thanked everyone for attending the meeting. She then provided a summary as follows:
IMDC Strategic Plan – The rebranding development and campaign continues raising the visibility of
IMD and clearly communicating the IMDC’s visions. The goal is to attract additional business and
partnership on a national level.
Master Plan – IMDC staff has been aggressively socializing the master plan with key stakeholders. It is
at its final stage of the socializing process. For the final stage of the socialization period, community
meetings will be held in collaboration with Alderman Ervin’s office.
Financial Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report as follows:




Operating expenses have decreased
Cash flow has increased
Accounts payable expenses have decreased

 Mr. Strachan talked about working on internal control on invoicing, accounts
receivables and accounts payables.

Old Business
IMDC Re-Branding Report - Dr. McKinney mentioned that Phase I is about to be completed and
Phase II will begin shortly thereafter. Carol McCarthy then provided an overview of the rebranding
project.
New Business
Superior Ambulance - Dr. McKinney introduced David Hill and Kim Godda of Superior Ambulance.
Mr. Hill introduced himself and thanked the Commission for their time. Mr. Hill talked about the
interest of moving to the District and becoming a partner of the District. Mr. Hill introduced Ms.
Godda, Vice President of Legal and Governmental Affairs. Ms. Godda discussed the history of Superior
Ambulance. Mr. Bienvenu mentioned that there is a resolution and that it has two specific requests (1)
grant authority to the Executive Director to continue conversations with Superior Ambulance that will
result in a long-term use of the property located at 1350 S. Leavitt and (2) use value hearing
requirements. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution. Commissioner Garza moved that the resolution be
approved and Commissioner Rand seconded, and the matter was approved by voice.
FY17 Budget – Mr. Strachan spoke about the proposed FY17 budget. Mr. Strachan mentioned that
the goal is to reduce the expenses. President Bilicic asked Mr. Bienvenu to read the Resolution. Mr.
Bienvenu read the resolution. Commissioner Rand moved that the resolution be approved and
Commissioner Garza seconded, and the matter was approved by voice vote.
Closed Session
Upon motion by President Bilicic and a unanimous roll call vote of the Commissioners, the
Commission went into closed session under the Open Meetings Act.
Open Session
The Commission returned to open session. Mr. Bienvenu mentioned that the Commission will resume
to approve the following resolutions:
Vice President Vacancy – President Bilicic mentioned that there is a need to elect a new vice
president. Commissioner Sercye was nominated as the candidate. Commissioner Garza moved and
Commissioner Foster seconded. Mr. Bienvenu will prepare a resolution to that effect.

2

 IMRF – President Bilicic mentioned that there is a need to name an authorized agent, Thomas
Strachan, for the Illinois Retirement Fund. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution. Commissioner Foster
moved and Commissioner Garza seconded that the resolution be approved and was approved by voice
vote.
Commissioner Foster moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Rand and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Alejandra Garza
Secretary

3

 