Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
May 15, 2018, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for May 15, 2018
Commissioners present: Blake Sercye, Cory Foster, Everett Rand, Neville Reid and Juan
Morado, Jr.
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Fabian Camarena, Jeanne Cotini, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage,
Judith Salgado, Kate Schellinger, Nicole Vahl, Crystal Salinas, Marcos Feldman (UNITE Here),
Dan Kaliber (City of Chicago DPD), Amy Kurson (Reyes Kurson), Denielle Mathys (Court
Reporter), Levi Moore (Hektoen), Jim McArdle (SEIU), Mike Nardini (CBRE), Nancy Ontiveros
(UNITE Here), Elia Quinto (UNITE Here), Brisa Sotelo (UNITE Here), Martin Stern (CBRE),
Susan G. Stevens (Gazette) and Susan Stevens (Gazette)
Approval of Minutes
President Sercye opened the meeting welcoming all guests in the room. President Sercye took
the roll call of Commissioners. President Sercye moved and Commissioner Rand seconded
that the minutes from last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Public Comment
Marcos Feldman, representative of the UNITE Here Local One, and Nancy Ontiveros made a
public comment. Mr. Feldman translated for Ms. Ontiveros, she spoke to the need of union jobs
to be created for the Gateway Project development.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney introduced a new summer intern, Crystal Salinas, who will be working with
Nicole Vahl. Dr. McKinney then provided an update on the following projects:
IMD Website – New website is near completion and will be launching soon. Press release
will announce the new website’s purpose as well as functionality. New video of website was
presented.
IMD Website – Work continues and the website will feature a fly-over video that highlights
Chicago’s rich history and will incorporate the IMD.

 Financial & Audit Report
Mr. Camarena provided a financial report.
Old Business
PD-30 Amendment – Dr. McKinney introduced Chris Fahey. Mr. Fahey presented
background information on Planned Development 30 and the need for an amendment.
Closed Session
Upon motion of President Sercye and seconded by Commissioner Reid, the Commission went
into closed session under the Open Meetings Act to discuss other matters.
Open Session
The Commission returned to open session. President Sercye mentioned that the Commission
will resume to approve the following resolutions:
FY2019 Budget – President Sercye read the resolution. President Sercye moved that the
resolution be approved and Commissioner Reid seconded, and the resolution was approved by
voice vote.
Election of Officers – President Sercye read the resolution. President Sercye moved that the
resolution be approved and Commissioner Foster seconded, and the resolution was approved
by voice vote.

Commissioner Reid moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded
by Commissioner Morado and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Cory Foster
Secretary

 