Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
July 17, 2018, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for July 17, 2018
Commissioners present: Neville Reid, John Cooke, Cory Foster, Everett Rand and Juan
Morado, Jr.
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Jeanne Cotini, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage,
Judith Salgado, Kate Schellinger, Nicole Vahl, Crystal Salinas, Drahcir Smith, Tom Strachan,
Denielle Mathys (Court Reporter), Kristin Bronsteadar (RUSH), Natalia Glubisz and Susan
Stevens (Gazette)
Approval of Minutes
President Reid opened the meeting welcoming all guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu took the
roll call of Commissioners. Commissioner Morado moved and Commissioner Foster seconded
that the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney provided an update on the following projects:
Financial Plan – Work has started on the financial plan delineating strategies on diversifying
and growing our revenue and financial capacity to deliver health, economic, and business
development for the District.
New Tenants – Two new tenants have been welcomed to the District, Schech & Siress and
Gateway Developing team renting ECII facilities.
Financial & Audit Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report.
Closed Session
Upon motion of President Reid and seconded by Commissioner Rand, the Commission went
into closed session under the Open Meetings Act to discuss other matters.

 Open Session
The Commission returned to open session. President Reid mentioned that the Commission
will resume to approve the following resolutions:
FY2019 Budget – Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution. Commissioner Foster moved that the
resolution be approved and Commissioner Rand seconded, and the resolution was approved by
voice vote.
Gateway – Mr. Bienvenu read a letter agreement. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution.
Commissioner Morado moved that the resolution be approved and Commissioner Foster
seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.

Commissioner Rand moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded
by Commissioner Foster and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Cory Foster
Secretary

 