Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
January 17, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for January 17, 2017
Commissioners present: Blake Sercye, Cory Foster, Alejandra Garza and Everett Rand
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Kate Schellinger,
Thomas Strachan, Nicole Vahl, Jeanne Cotini, Alexander Grzyvb (F.H. Paschen), Sarah Lyons (Unite
Here Local 1), Denielle Mathys (Court Reporter), Martin Stern (CBRE), Bob Wislow (CBRE) and Mr. &
Mrs. Wordlow
Approval of Minutes
President Sercye opened the meeting with a welcome to all of the guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu
took the roll call of Commissioners. President Sercye moved and Commissioner Rand seconded that
the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney thanked everyone for attending the meeting. She then provided a 2016 year-end review
report.
Financial Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report as follows:
 Operating profit is better than budgeted.
 Account receivables are down by $108,000.00.
 Audit fieldwork has been completed.
Old Business
RFP for Real Estate & Strategic Advisory Services – President Sercye presented CBRE. Bob
Wislow introduced himself and Marty Stern. Mr. Wislow provided a brief overview of their company
and services to be provided to the IMD. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution approving the staff
recommendation for the Real Estate Strategic Advisory Professional Services RFP. President Sercye
moved that the resolution be approved and Commissioner Garza seconded, and the resolution was
approved by voice vote.

 Superior Ambulance - Mr. Bienvenu provided a summary of the 1350 S. Leavitt lease negotiations.
New Business
Coming Together to Build Health & Economic Wellness on Chicago’s West Side – Nicole
Vahl introduced herself. Ms. Vahl provided an overview of this project that is designed to examine
various social factors that are contributing to poor health outcomes on the West Side of Chicago. Dr.
McKinney mentioned that this project and idea was initiated by Dr. Goodman, the CEO of RUSH
Hospital.
Purchase of 2240 W. Ogden – This transaction involves the purchase of 2240 W. Ogden, a three
floor brick building. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution approving the purchase of 2240 W. Ogden.
President Sercye moved that the resolution be approved and Commissioner Rand seconded, and the
resolution was approved by voice vote. President Sercye asked Mr. Bienvenu to read the resolution
approving the Signature Bank acquisition loan related to the 2240 W. Ogden purchase. Mr. Bienvenu
read the resolution. President Sercye moved that the resolution be approved and Commissioner
Foster seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.
President Sercye moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Rand and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Cory Foster
Secretary

2

 