Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
May 16, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for May 16, 2017
Commissioners present: Blake Sercye, John Cooke, Neville Reid and Everett Rand
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Jeannie Cotini, Karen Ewing, Chris
Fahey, Ryan Gage, Patricia Hayden, Ernesto Luna, Gabriel Magana, Judy Salgado, Kate
Schellinger, Wilbert Simmons, Nicole Vahl, Greg Wass, Timothy Hicks (Forest Preserve
District of Cook County) Lameis Hodi (Remedy) Denielle Mathys (Court Reporter), Carol
McCarthy (Remedy) and Susan S. Stevens (Gazette)
Approval of Minutes
President Sercye opened the meeting welcoming all guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu took the
roll call of Commissioners. President Sercye moved and Commissioner Rand seconded that
the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney provided a summary as follows:
IMDC Strategic Marketing Plan – Dr. McKinney outlined a strategic plan designed to
position the IMD to achieve its potential with respect to core mission areas and to compete
with national peer organizations.
Property Acquisition – The property located at 2023 W. Ogden property has been deeded
over to IMD. The Purchase and Sale Agreement has been signed for 2240 West Ogden.
Expect to complete the purchase within the next 30 to 45 days.
Bond Redemption – 100% of the Series A tax exempt was paid and 49.1% of the Series B
was paid on May 15th, 2017.
Financial & Audit Report
Dr. McKinney provided a financial report as follows:
•
•
•

Cash and cash equivalents are lower than 6/30/16
Account receivables are down
Operating expenses are trending downward.

 Old Business
Rebranding Project – Mr. Gage provided a project overview and update.
Strategic Marketing Plan – Carol McCarthy and Dr. McKinney separately provided a
project update.
New Business
FY18 Budget – Dr. McKinney presented a proposed FY18 Budget. Mr. Bienvenu read the
resolution. President Sercye move that the resolution be approved and Commissioner Reid
seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.
Closed Session
Upon motion by President Sercye, the Commission went into closed session under the Open
Meetings Act to discuss litigation.
Open Session
The Commission returned to open session. President Sercye moved that the meeting be
adjourned. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Reid and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Cory Foster
Secretary

 