Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
November 21, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for November 21, 2017
Commissioners present: Blake Sercye, Alejandra Garza, Neville Reid and John Cooke
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Fabian Camarena, Jeanne Cotini, Chris
Fahey, Ryan Gage, Kate Schellinger, Nicole Vahl, and Denielle Mathys (Court Reporter)
Approval of Minutes
President Sercye opened the meeting welcoming all guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu took the
roll call of Commissioners. President Sercye moved and Commissioner Garza seconded that
the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney provided report as follows:
CTA Shuttle – The new system will be operated by CTA and will expand shuttle service to
the three downtown Metra stations, improving transportation both to and within the District.
IMD Website – Work is continuing with the assistance of Remedy Chicago to complete the
website project.
Financial Report
Mr. Camarena provided a financial report as follows:
•
•

Revenue is ahead of budget.
Operating income is on budget.
Old Business

8 Hospitality Group – President Sercye mentioned that due to applicant’s error, the use
value hearing had not taken place. The hearing will be scheduled prior to the end of this year.

 New Business
Sale of Grassy Parcel at Western Side of Damen – Mr. Bienvenu provided background
information on the sale. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution approving the sale of eastern portion
of block 114. President Sercye moved that the resolution be approved and Commissioner Reid
seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.
Election of Officers – Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution confirming the election of
Commissioner Sercye as President, Commissioner Garza as Vice President, Commissioner
Foster as Secretary and Commissioner Rand as Treasurer. President Sercye moved that the
resolution be approved and Commissioner Cooke seconded, and the resolution was approved
by voice vote.
Closed Session
Upon motion by President Sercye, the Commission went into closed session under the Open
Meetings Act to discuss litigation.
Open Session
The Commission returned to open session. President Sercye moved that the meeting be
adjourned. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Reid and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,

Cory Foster
Secretary

 