Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
September 20, 2016, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for September 20, 2016
Commissioners present: George Bilicic, Blake Sercye, Cory Foster and Terry Mazany
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Kate Schellinger,
Thomas Strachan, Greg Wass, Nicole Vahl, Jeanne Cotini, Eric Feinberg (Studley), Jack Higgins
(HPD/The Gateway), John Higgins (Gateway Partners), E. Higginbottom (Gateway Partners), Sarah
Lyons (UniteHere1), Chris Meister (Illinois Finance Authority), Denielle Mathys (Court Reporter),
Eileen Rhodes (Gateway Partners), Tom Samuels (Gateway Partners), Susan S. Stevens (Gazette) and
Mr. & Mrs. Wordlow
Approval of Minutes
President Bilicic opened the meeting with a welcome to all of the guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu
took the roll call of Commissioners. Commissioner Sercye moved and Commissioner Foster seconded
that the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney thanked everyone for attending the meeting. She then provided a summary as follows:
IMD New Staff – Introduction of two new IMD staff members: Jeanne Cotini (Staff Accountant) and
Nicole Vahl (Health & Science Program Manager).
ECI Project – The building is in need of both a new HVAC and roof.
AGA Project – The cost of the project continues to escalate. Due to AGA’s inability to identify any
funding to contribute to the costs, the rehab project has been discontinued.
Rebranding – Work continues and has advanced to phase three. New logo and tag line have been
selected. Currently trademark research is being conducted to ensure that the selection is available for
use.
Healthcare Quarterly Conversation - We have partnered with the Alliance for Regional
Development to host a Healthcare Conversation that examines the health of the 3 state region: IL, IN,
and WI. The event will take place Wednesday, October 5th at the office of the Chicago Metropolitan
Agency for Planning.

 Real Estate RFP – A new RFP will be issued. The RFP will be for real estate and strategic advisory
services.
Bond Redemption - An update was provided regarding the bond redemption process to retire the
bond debt issued in 2006.
Financial Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report as follows:
 Overall, this year has been a turnaround year for the IMD
 Expenses have decreased by almost $2 million from the prior year
 The balance sheets reflects a cash position of approximately $2.2 million
 Accounts receivables are at approximately $400,000

Old Business
Gateway Project – Mr. Higgins introduced himself and introduced his partners, Elzie Higginbottom,
Tom Samuels, Eileen Rhodes and John Higgins. An update of the project was provided.
New Business
RFP for Real Estate & Strategic Advisory Services – Mr. Bienvenu provided an overview of the
RFP. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution. Commissioner Sercye moved that the resolution be approved
and Commissioner Mazany seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.

Commissioner Sercye moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Foster and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Alejandra Garza
Secretary

2

 