Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
March 21, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for March 21, 2017
Commissioners present: Blake Sercye, Cory Foster, Alejandra Garza, John Cooke, Neville
Reid, Terry Mazany and Everett Rand
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Kate
Schellinger, Thomas Strachan, Nicole Vahl, Heather Berhalter (Urban Prairie Waldorf School),
Noah Carson-Nelson (Unite Here Local 1), Sarah Lyons (Unite Here Local 1), Denielle Mathys
(Court Reporter), Ana Spiteri (Impark), Susan S. Stevens (Gazette) and Jean Young (Plante
Moran)
Approval of Minutes
President Sercye opened the meeting welcoming all guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu took the
roll call of Commissioners. President Sercye thanked Commissioner Mazany for his hard work
as a commissioner of the Illinois Medical District. Commissioner Mazany introduced Mr.
Cooke, new commissioner. Mr. Bienvenu introduced Mr. Reid, new commissioner. Mr.
Bienvenu then performed the “swearing in” ceremony for the two new commissioners.
President Sercye moved and Commissioner Rand seconded that the minutes from the last
meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney welcomed the two new commissioners. She thanked Commissioner Mazany for
his services to the Illinois Medical District. She then provided a summary as follows:
IMDC Marketing Plan – It is designed to refine the strategy positioning of the IMD to
achieve its full potential respect to the core mission areas as well as to compete with national
peer organizations. The project was launched in February and it is near completion.
2240 West Ogden – Purchase and Sale Agreement has been signed. Expect to close after the
due diligence process has ended.

 Financial & Audit Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report as follows:





Operating income before depreciation is over $1,000,000 this year.
Account receivables are down by $129,000.00
Accounts payable is low.
Operating expenses is low.

Mr. Strachan introduced Jean Young, partner with Plante Moran, to provide an audit report.
Ms. Young then presented the audit report.
Old Business
UIC Land Swap – Mr. Bienvenu explained that under the exchange the University will be
deeded the parking lot and in return the IMD would receive the property located at 2023 W.
Ogden. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution. President Sercye moved that the resolution be
approved and Commissioner Foster seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.
Rebranding Project – Mr. Gage provided a project update.

Closed Session
Upon motion by President Sercye, the Commission went into closed session under the Open
Meetings Act to discuss the sale of real estate and litigation.
Open Session
The Commission returned to open session. President Sercye moved that the meeting be
adjourned. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Foster and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Cory Foster
Secretary

 