Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
September 19, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for September 19, 2017
Commissioners present: Blake Sercye, Alejandra Garza, Cory Foster, Neville Reid (via phone),
John Cooke and Everett Rand
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Jeanne Cotini, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage,
Kate Schellinger, Nicole Vahl, Greg Wass and Denielle Mathys (Court Reporter)
Approval of Minutes
President Sercye opened the meeting welcoming all guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu took the
roll call of Commissioners. President Sercye moved and Commissioner Rand seconded for
Commissioner Reid to participate via phone. President Sercye moved and Commissioner Garza
seconded that the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice
vote.
Executive Director Report
Ms. Schellinger provided the Executive Director report on behalf of Dr. McKinney, as follows:
IMDC Strategic Marketing Plan – Vision and approach for growing and developing the
District is moving forward. The marketing video that CBRE developed has increased interest in
the District.
Legislative Day – The staff is planning a Legislative Day for the IMD to which key elected
officials will be invited and will be provided with information on the exciting developments in
the District. The ultimate goal is to ensure that legislators are aware of the IMD’s strategic
vision, how we plan to approach executing the vision and help them understand how the IMD is
benefitting the community.
CBRE – The Agreement has been signed and work has started. The service areas are
consulting, transaction management, and property management.
Israel Delegation – Dr. McKinney traveled to Israel as part of Mayor Emanuel’s Delegation.
Financial Report
President Sercye noted that for this meeting there would be no oral financial report, but
Commissioners received all the financial documents.

 Old Business
Brinshore & Thresholds – Commissioner Garza and Reid provided a summary of the use
value hearing. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution granting authority to the Executive Director
and staff to negotiate a transaction. President Sercye moved that the resolution be approved
and Commissioner Foster seconded, and the resolution was approved by voice vote.
RFP Government Affairs – Mr. Bienvenu provided a summary of the RFP for Government
Affairs. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution approving the RFP. President Sercye moved that the
resolution be approved and Commissioners Rand and Reid seconded, and the resolution was
approved by voice vote.
RFP Qualified Pool for Legal Services – Mr. Bienvenu provided a summary of the RFP for
Legal Services. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution approving the RFP. President Sercye moved
that the resolution be approved and Commissioner Cooke seconded, and the resolution was
approved by voice vote.
New Business
IMD Broadband Expansion Project – President Sercye introduced Greg Wass. Mr. Wass
provided background information and an overview of the project.
IMRF – Mr. Bienvenu provided background information on the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund and mentioned that from time to time there is a need to appoint an authorized agent that
will handle administrative responsibilities. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution approving Kate
Schellinger, IMD Chief of Staff, as IMRF authorized agent. President Sercye moved that the
resolution be approved and Commissioner Foster seconded, and the resolution was approved
by voice vote.
Closed Session
Upon motion by President Sercye, the Commission went into closed session under the Open
Meetings Act to discuss litigation.
Open Session
The Commission returned to open session. President Sercye moved that the meeting be
adjourned. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Foster and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Cory Foster
Secretary

 