Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
July 19, 2016, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for July 19, 2016
Commissioners present: George Bilicic, Alejandra Garza, Cory Foster, Everett Rand and Terry Mazany
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage, Kate Schellinger,
Thomas Strachan, Terra Clark, Greg Wass, Sarah Lyons (UniteHere1), Denielle Mathys (Court
Reporter), Thomas McElroy (Level 1) and Susan S. Stevens (Gazette)
Approval of Minutes
President Bilicic opened the meeting with a welcome to all of the guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu
took the roll call of Commissioners. Commissioner Foster moved and Commissioner Garza seconded
that the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney thanked everyone for attending the meeting. She then provided a summary as follows:
Rebranding – Work continues and has advanced to phase two. Phase two consists, among other
things, exploring a new tag line and a new logo.
Master Plan – A Community meeting was held on July 7th to discuss the master plan. A formal request
will be made to adopt the master plan in this meeting.
Superior Ambulance Company – A use value hearing was held on June 28th. A term sheet has been
provided to Superior containing our requested conditions for their occupancy. We have received
comments from their real estate consultants. We are in the process of formulating a counteroffer to
them.
IMD Policies – In an effort to ensure that IMD operations are managed in the most ethical and
efficient manner possible, a revision to existing policies is necessary. Some of the areas identified for
revision include revolving door rules, human resources and personnel management, procurement,
confidentiality, bereavement leave benefits and vacation carryover.

 Financial Report
Mr. Strachan provided a financial report as follows:
 Operating expenses have dramatically decreased
 Accounts receivables have decreased
 Accounts payable are current
Mr. Strachan mentioned that relationships with suppliers, consultants and tenants are strengthening.
Old Business
Master Plan - Chris Fahey provided a brief presentation on the master plan. Mr. Bienvenu read the
resolution. Commissioner Rand moved that the resolution be approved and Commissioner Garza
seconded, and the matter was approved by voice.
Superior Ambulance – Commissioner Foster provided a brief summary of the use value hearing. He
concluded that the partnership with Superior Ambulance is in line with the IMD’s mission.
New Business
Fiber Optic Project – Greg Wass introduced himself and thanked the Commission for the
opportunity to work on the project. Mr. Wass provided some background information for the project.
The goal of the project is to have an ultra-high-speed, next-generation fiber network.
Procurement Policy – Mr. Bienvenu provided an overview of the procurement policy revision
project.
Signature Bank – Mr. Bienvenu described the Signature Bank loan terms. Mr. Bienvenu read the
resolution. President Bilicic mentioned that a final approval of the loan will be done at an upcoming
Commission meeting.
Commissioner Foster moved that the meeting be adjourned. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Rand and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Alejandra Garza
Secretary

2

 