Meeting of the Illinois Medical District Commission
2100 W. Harrison St., Chicago, IL 60612 Room 106
July 18, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Minutes for July 18, 2017
Commissioners present: Blake Sercye, Alejandra Garza, Neville Reid and Everett Rand
Others present: Dr. Suzet McKinney, Kesner Bienvenu, Jeanne Cotini, Chris Fahey, Ryan Gage,
Ian Osharow, Kate Schellinger, Nicole Vahl, Ron Grais (Thresholds) David Hill (Superior
Ambulance) Mark Ishaug (Thresholds) Scott Latter (Superior Ambulance) Denielle Mathys
(Court Reporter), Jolene Saul (Brinshore) and Susan S. Stevens (Gazette)
Approval of Minutes
President Sercye opened the meeting welcoming all guests in the room. Mr. Bienvenu took the
roll call of Commissioners. President Sercye moved and Commissioner Rand seconded that
the minutes from the last meeting be approved. The motion carried by voice vote.
Executive Director Report
Dr. McKinney provided a summary as follows:
IMDC Strategic Marketing Plan – Dr. McKinney outlined process of socialization to garner
widespread support of the plan designed to position the IMD to achieve its potential with
respect to core mission areas and to compete with national peer organizations.
Legislative Day – The staff is planning a Legislative Day for the IMD to which key elected
member will be invited and will be provided with information on the exciting work that is
occurring in the district.
Property Acquisition – Closing of property located at 2240 W. Ogden took effect on June
30, 2017.
Bond Redemption – Communication has been made with bond trustee and IMDC is in an
improved position with respect to debt service.
Property Demolition – Demolition of property located at 1910 W. Harrison will be
performed in the near future.
Financial Report
Dr. McKinney provided a financial report as follows:

 •
•
•

Account receivables are down
Accounts payable remain current
Revenue and Expenses are ahead of budget.
Old Business

CBRE – Mr. Bienvenu provided a project update.
Procurements – Mr. Bienvenu provided a summary of two upcoming procurements: general
legal services and government affairs services.
Superior Ambulance – Mr. Bienvenu introduced Mr. David Hill, President of Superior
Ambulance to provide an overview of Superior Ambulance’s relationship with the IMD and
lease property. Mr. Hill provided background information on Superior Ambulance and an
overview of the use of 1350 S. Leavitt. Mr. Bienvenu read the resolution. President Sercye
moved that the resolution be approved and Commissioner Rand seconded, and the resolution
was approved by voice vote.
New Business
Brinshore & Thresholds – President Sercye introduced Mark Ishaug, Ron Grais and Jolene
Saul. Ms. Saul provided background information and an overview of the Inspiration Square
project. Mr. Bienvenu described the need and content for a use value hearing. Mr. Bienvenu
then read the resolution approving a use value hearing for the project. President Sercye moved
to have Commissioners Reid and Garza as use value hearing officers. Commissioner Rand
moved that the resolution be approved, and the matter was approved by voice.
Closed Session
Upon motion by President Sercye, the Commission went into closed session under the Open
Meetings Act to discuss litigation.
Open Session
The Commission returned to open session. President Sercye moved that the meeting be
adjourned. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Reid and approved by voice vote.

Respectfully submitted,
Cory Foster
Secretary

 