301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 51h Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
June 19, 2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; David R. Kahnweiler*, Vice-Chairman; Jorge Ramirez,
Secretary/Treasurer; Roger J. Kiley; Terrance B. McGann; Juan A. Ochoa; Ronald E. Powell

?Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer;
David Winters, Chief Operations Of?cer; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Of?cer; David Causton, SMG/McCormick
Place; Matthew Simmons, Assistant General Counsel; Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director
of Procurement; Pat Allen, Director of Labor Relations; Stephanie Lovelace-Nieves, Controller; Jason Bormann,
Director of Treasury and Capital Management; Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager, Community Engagement and Special
Events; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity Program Coordinator; Amanda Lunkes, Doug Bradley, Rufus
Purnell, Contractor - Lighthouse; McCafferty, Hawthome Strategy Group, Inc. Maria Calderon, CEO Project
Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Vice-Chainnan Kahnweiler to participate via teleconference. Upon motion
duly made by Member Ramirez and seconded by Member Kiley, the remaining members present unanimously voted
passing the motion.

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the May 22, 2018.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey stated the inter-partnership with Hyatt Regency McCormick Place in Yappy Hour was
attended by ?fty people and will be repeated in a month. Ms. Healey reported about the 4th Ward job fair hosted by
Alderman King. Ms. Healey reported Ms. Petties along with campus partners attended the job fair. Ms. Healey stated
Ms. Clark participated in the CFO panel presented by Crain?s Chicago Business on June 61?, which was attended by
two hundred ?nance professionals. Ms. Healey stated the ?rst ?oor of the ABC building would begin to operate on
August 1st along with Marriott Marquis' Marketplace. Ms. Healey stated MPEA's new public art installation of the BOTS
will be completed on August 1st, and the ?rst meeting of the McCormick Square Cultural District will convene on the
same day. Ms. Healey stated ASAE will host their annual meeting on campus beginning on August 17th.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the ?nancial results and the tax collections for May 2018.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton stated May and June were strong months for the campus. Mr. Causton
stated the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) had their largest show with over 40,000 attendees; and the
Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) had 23,000 attendees were 17,000 lunches were prepared for one
lunch. Mr. Causton stated Case Management Society of America and International Society for Technology in Education
(ISTE) hosted their shows on campus. Mr. Causton stated Wintrust Arena hosted ?ve graduations and four games by


July 24,2018

0

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

the Chicago Sky. Mr. Causton reported Nike National Invitational Tournament; United Fresh Annual Convention; Slate
Innovation Summit; National Association of Secondary School Principals; and Institute of Food Technologists would
host their events in the following weeks on campus. Mr. Causton stated the Chicago Sky will have six games in July.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss executive
compensation and item C1. Upon motion duly made by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member McGann, and the
remaining members present unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1.

D1.

DZ.

D3.

D4.

D5.

D6.

Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the May 22, 2018 Regular Board Meeting.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item C1.

Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract - Business Diversity Program
Consulting Services.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D1.

Consideration of Approval of Emergency Contract Award Emergency Repairs Lakeside (Lot C)
Garage Sprinkler Main Repair.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D2.

Consideration of Approval of FY2019 Insurance Program Renewal.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D3.

Consideration of Approval for the Procurement Report, First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D4.

Consideration of Approval for the Procurement Report, Second Quarter Fiscal Year
2018.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D5.

Consideration of Approval of Sole Source Contract for Fire Alarm Maintenance.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ramirez, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D6.


July 24, 2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, Floor

Chicago, IL 60616

E2. Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 18-01 Executive Compensation.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item E2.

Adjournment

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the meeting
was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

Approved: July 24, 2018 Secretary


July 24, 2018

