301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
January 23, 2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart*, Chairman; David R. Kahnweiler*, Vice-Chairman; Jorge Ramirez,
Secretary/Treasurer; Daniel W. Hynes; Roger J. Kiley; Juan A. Ochoa; Ronald E. Powell
*Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; David Winters, Chief Operations
Of?cer; Michael Merchant, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs Regulatory Compliance; Steve E. Georgas, Chief
Security Of?cer; Matthew Simmons, Assistant General Counsel; Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Dao
Ngo, Director of Procurement; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity Program Coordinator; Jeanette Swan, Director of
Internal Audit; Barnaby Dinges, Chief Marketing and Communications Of?cer; Pat Allen, Director of Labor Relations;
Stephanie Lovelace-Nieves, Controller; Jason Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital Management; Marilynn
Rubio, Senior Manager, Community Engagement and Special Events; Gloria Juarbe, Director of Human Resources;
David Whitaker, Choose Chicago; Doug Bradley, Joseph T. Scheper, Assistant General Manager, Finance
and Administration; Aleks Granchalek, Fifth Third; Kelleye Chube, Governor's Of?ce; Rufus Purnell, Chicago Resident;
Bob Israel, 8000; Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Member Kahnweiler and Chairman Hart to participate via teleconference.
Upon motion duly made by Member Powell and seconded by Member Kiley, the remaining members present
unanimously voted passing the motion.

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting on November 28, 2017.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

A3. Appointment of Ethics Enforcer.
Chairman Hart appointed Patricia Brown Holmes as the Ethics Enforcer.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey presented the Annual Report and once it is ?nalized will be distributed to Spring?eld.
Ms. Healey reported the MARTY app has received great coverage and local businesses are being promoted on the
app. Ms. Healey stated Mr. Causton, Mr. Whitaker and she joined Mayor Rahm Emanuel at the Chicago Boat, RV 
Sail Show?s where it was announced Chicago had surpassed the 55 million visitors to the city in 2017. Mr. Whitaker
reported twenty-one out of forty convention shows had attendance records during 2017. Mr. Georgas reported table
top meetings regarding security would take place quarterly beginning on February 20th at the Wintrust Arena. Mr.
Georgas reported the bike unit on campus has training three times a month. Ms. Healey reported the Marriott
Marquis Hotel received the Project of the Year Award from the Construction Industry Service Corporation (CISCO).
Ms. Healey reported MPEA was nominated for the Development of the Year Award for the Marriott Marquis Hotel for
Americas Lodging Investment Summit (ALIS).


March 27, 2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago. IL 60616

mum

Report from Acting CFO: Ms. Nieves presented the financial results for December 2017. Mr. Bormann presented
the tax collections for December 2017.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton presented a video in review of 2017. Mr. Causton reported the
International Air-Conditioning, Heating, Refrigerating Exposition had 65,000 attendees. Mr. Causton reported American
Society for Healthcare Engineering; Society for Human Resource Management; International Manufacturing
Technology Show; PACK Expo; and American Academy of Ophthalmology would host their show in 2018 at McCormick
Place. Mr. Causton reported Salesforce Connections and LIGHTFAIR International are new pieces of business for
2018. Mr. Causton reported the American Society of Association Executives (ASAE) will be hosting their show for the
?rst time since the past ten years at McCormick Place.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss litigation and real
estate. Upon motion duly made by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1. Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the November 28, 2017 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ramirez, and the remaining members present voted
approving item C1.

D1. Consideration of Approval of Sole Source Contract.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ramirez, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D1.

DZ. Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for Purchasing Agent to Procure
Furniture, Fixtures, and Equipment for the Event Center at McCormick Place.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D2.

D3. Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for Design-Build Services 
McCormick Place Headquarters Hotel.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D3.

D4. Consideration of Approval of ABC Lease Termination Agreement.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D4.


March 27, 2018

DB.

D6.

D7.

D8.

D9.

Adjournment

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Consideration of Approval of Wintrust Arena Trademark License Agreement.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D5.

Consideration of Approval of Labor Agreement - Projectionist Union, Local 110 IATSE.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Kiley, Member Hynes abstained, and the
remaining members present voted approving item D6.

Consideration of Approval of Labor Agreement - Theatrical Wardrobe Union Local 769.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D7.

Consideration of Approval to End Retention of Audio Recordings of MPEA Board Meeting
Executive Sessions Minutes for the following Dates: January 26, 2016; March 29, 2016; April 26,
2016; and June 21, 2016.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D8.

Consideration of Approval of Reference Contract for Equipment Rental and Service.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D9.

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the
meeting was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

Approved: March 27, 2018

 

Secretary/Treasurer or Assistant Secretary


March 27,2018

