301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
July 24, 2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; David R. Kahnweiler*, Vice-Chairman; Daniel W. Hynes; Roger J.

Kiley; Terrance B. McGann; Juan A. Ochoa; Ronald E. Powell
*Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer; David Winters, Chief Operations Of?cer;
Michael Merchant, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs Regulatory Compliance; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security
Of?cer; David Causton, SMG/McCormick Place; Matthew Simmons, Assistant General Counsel; Samina Kapadia,
Assistant General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of Procurement; Jeanette Swan, Director of Internal Audit; Pat Allen,
Director of Labor Relations; Stephanie Lovelace-Nieves, Controller; Jason Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital
Management; Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager, Community Engagement and Special Events; Tiffany Petties, Business
Diversity Program Coordinator; Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick Place; Pete Schuria, SMG/McCormick Place;
Doug Bradley, Mitchell Torn, Rebeca Maldonado, Rufus PurneII, Resident; 
McCafferty, Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc. Man'a Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Vice-Chairman Kahnweiler to participate via teleconference. Upon motion
duly made by Member Kiley and seconded by Member McGann, the remaining members present unanimously voted
passing the motion.

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the June 19, 2018.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey reported the ?rst ?oor of the ABC building was on schedule to start operating on August
1st along with Marriott Marquis? Marketplace. Ms. Healey stated a press conference would be held on August 1st to
announce MPEA's new public art installation (the BOTS), and the McCormick Square Cultural District. Ms. Healey
stated the Rooted in Greatness Exhibit, an interactive, multimedia presentation that will feature the history of the State
of Illinois as part of the Illinois Bicentennial Celebration, would be on display starting on August 15th through February
14th.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the preliminary ?nancial results for June 2018 and the tax collections for June
2018.

Report from SAVOR: Mr. Bradley reported June was a busy month for SAVOR with over seven million in revenue for
that month. Mr. Bradley reported McCormick Place has continued to integrate with the neighborhood, for example
participated in the South Loop Farmers Market and the Taste of the South Loop. Mr. Bradley reported neighborhood
integration vegetable planters were given to the Chinese American Service League, South Loop, and Bronzeville. Mr.
Bradley stated a two prong approach has been established to improve goals for purchasing needs. Mr. Bradley


September 18, 2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

stated the two prong approach consisted of identifying suppliers that have allowed their certi?cations to lapse and
negotiating with additional distributors.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session after the review of covered
actions and eligible agreements to discuss item C1 . Upon motion duly made by Member Powell, seconded by Member
McGann, and the remaining members present unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1.

D1.

D2.

D3.

D4.

D5.

D6.

Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the June 19, 2018 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item C1.

Consideration of Approval of Letter Agreement Rooted in Greatness Sponsorship.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D1.

Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for NE Conditions Assessment
Services Roo?ng, Waterproo?ng, Structural Restoration Program.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D2.

Consideration of Approval of New Construction Contract for Arie Crown Theater Stage Support.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D3.

Consideration of Approval to End Retention of Audio Recordings of MPEA Board Meeting Executive
Session Minutes for the following Dates: July 19, 2016; September 21, 2016; October 25, 2016; and
November 29, 2016.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D4.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 18-02 Delegating Authority to the Chief
Executive Of?cer to Transfer Title and Registration of a Police Vehicle.

Moved by Member McGann, seConded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D5.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Overhead Door and Emergency Services.


September 18, 2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago. IL 60616

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D6.

Adjournment

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the meeting
was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

Approved: September 18, 2018 Secretary/Treasurer oWistant Secretary


September 18, 2018

