301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom. 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
May 22,2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; David R. Kahnweiler, Vice-Chairman; Jorge Ramirez,
Secretary/Treasurer; Daniel W. Hynes; Roger J. Kiley; Terrance B. McGann; Juan A. Ochoa; Ronald E. Powell

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer;
David Winters, Chief Operations Of?cer; Michael Merchant, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs Regulatory
Compliance; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Of?cer; David Causton, SMG/McCormick Place; Matthew Simmons,
Assistant General Counsel; Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of Procurement; Pat Allen,
Director of Labor Relations; Stephanie Lovelace-Nieves, Controller; Jason Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital
Management; Gloria Juarbe, Directorof Human Resources; Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager, Community Engagement
and Special Events; Doug Bradley, Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick Place; Kelleye Chube, Governor's
Of?ce; Rufus Purnell, Chicago Resident; McCafferty, Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc.; Aleks Granchalek, Fifth
Third; Christine Perkins, Inner City Youth and Adult Foundation, Inc.; M.A. Perkins, Inner City Youth and Adult
Foundation; Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of April 24, 2018.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey stated the art auction of the Kerry James Marshall went better than expected as the
painting sold for 21 .5 million. Ms. Healey presented a video of, the live auction. Ms. Healey stated Ms. Clark, Chief
Financial Of?cer, would participate in a CFO panel presented by Crain's Chicago Business on June 6th. Ms. Healey
stated the Chicago Sky's opening day was scheduled for May 20th. Ms. Healey stated MPEA would participate in the
4th Ward Spring Job Fair on May 30th.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the ?nancial results and the tax collections for April 2018.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton stated Lightfair Internationals last show on campus was in 1995 but
they were back on campus during the beginning of May 2018 with 25,000 attendees, and will be back in 2020. Mr.
Causton stated AWEA Windpower hosted their show in mid-May with 7,500 attendees and the National Restaurant
Association ?nished their show yesterday with 65,000 attendees. Mr. Causton stated the National Restaurant Show
has signed to host theirshow up to 2026. Mr. Causton stated the following shows will be on campus: Sweets 8 Snacks
Expo with 18,000 attendees; American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) with 32,000 attendees (signed till 2030);
Internet Retailer Conference Exhibition (IRCE) next year will co?Iocate with GlobaIShop and will operate under the
name of RetailX; Salesforce Connections with 8,000 attendees; Morningstar Investment Conference; Holiday
Show and Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) with 23,000 attendees. Mr. Causton stated Wintrust


June 19, 2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5?1 Floor
Chicago. IL 60616

Arena has hosted graduations, games by the Chicago Sky, and a concert by Keith Urban during the National

Restaurant Show.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss item C1. Upon
motion duly made by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present unanimously
voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1.

D1.

D2.

D3.

D4.

D5.

D6.

Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the April 24, 2018 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item C1.

Consideration of Approval of Change Order to Existing Contract for West Building Chiller #1
Emergency Repairs.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D1.

Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for Electricity Supplier.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D2.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Elevator and Escalator Inspection Services.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D3.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Grease Trap Cleaning Services.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D4.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Fire Extinguisher Inspection and Maintenance
Services.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D5.

Consideration of Approval of Sole Source Contract for Fire Alarm Maintenance.

Item D6 was deferred for the next Board meeting.


June 19,2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Adjournment

Member McGann congratulated Mr. Frank Libby for his retirement from the Carpenters Union. Member McGann stated
Mr. Libby as President of the Chicago Regional Council of Carpenters worked with McCormick Place and will be
missed. Ms. Healey echoed the same sentiment and wanted to thank the carpenters for their generosity over the years.
Member Ramirez stated Mr. Libby was instrumental in the settlement of the new work rules at McCormick Place.
Member Ramirez states Mr. Libby is someone who cares for the industry and is recognized nationally for promoting
the industry.

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member McGann, and the

meeting was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

Approved: June 19, 2018 Secretarym?easurer Assistant Secretary


June 19,2018

