301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5?h Floor
. . Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
April 24, 2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; David R. Kahnweiler?, Vice-Chairman; Jorge Ramirez,
Secretary/Treasurer; Daniel W. Hynes; Roger J. Kiley; Terrance McGann; Juan A. Ochoa
*Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; Larita Clerk, Chief Financial Of?cer;
David Winters, Chief Operations Of?cer; Michael Merchant, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs Regulatory
Compliance; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Of?cer; Matthew Simmons, Assistant General Counsel; Samina
Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of Procurement; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity Program
Coordinator; Jeanette Swan, Director of Internal Audit; Pat Allen, Director of Labor Relations; Jason Bormann, Director
of Treasury and Capital Management; Gloria Juarbe, Director of Human Resources; Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager,
Community Engagement and Special Events; Doug Bradley, Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick Place;
Rufus Pumell, Chicago Resident; McCafferty, Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc.; Aleks Granchalek, Fifth Third;
Marcos Feldman, Unite Here-Local 1; Jesus Soberanis, Unite Here-Local 1; Brisa Soteto, Unite Here-Local 1; Nancy
Ontiveros, Unite Here-Local 1; Alejandra Monzon, Unite Here-Local 1; Elia Quinto, Unite Here-Local 1; Latasha
Thomas; Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Vice?Chairman Kahnweiler to participate via teleconference. Upon motion
duly made by Member McGann and seconded by Member Kiley, the remaining members present unanimously voted
passing the motion.

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:05 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of March 27, 2018.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

A3. Public Comment.

Ms. Ontiveros addressed the Board again regarding the mandatory meeting employees attended at
the Hampton Inn, where she is employed. Ms. Ontiveros thanked the Board and MPEA for having a
meeting with the First Hospitality Group regarding this issue. Ms. Healey informed Ms. Ontiveros and
her fellow co-workers in the audience present that MPEA took these allegations seriously. Member
Ramirez stated that along with MPEA, Choose Chicago and Navy Pier, Inc. met with the First
Hospitality Group and informed them their behavior was unacceptable.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey stated Mr. Merchant, Mrs. Clark, and Mr. Simmons represented MPEA at the House
Appropriations Hearing on April 12th. Ms. Healey stated the House Appropriations Hean'ng committee congratulated
MPEA for presenting a clean budget and having no ?ndings in their annual audit. Ms. Healey reported the Marriott
Marquis Chicago was a 2018 ?nalist for the Hospitality Design Awards for Upscale Public Space, and the MARTY

HMPEA
May 22,2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

app was nominated for the Skyline Awards sponsored by the Public Relations Society of America. Ms. Healey
reported the Choose Chicago roadshows were wrapping up in the next few weeks.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the ?nancial results and the tax collections for March 2018.

Report from SAVOR Vice President of Culinary: Mr. Bradley reported the Chicago Comic Entertainment Expo
Oracle; the American Association for Cancer Research; the American Diabetes Association Expo Chicago;
the American Academy of Cosmetic Dentistry and the Fresenius Kidney Care Clinical Leadership Conference
consumed over $900,000 in catering. Mr. Bradley reported the Unite Here contract was extended until December 2018.
Mr. Bradley reported the upgraded facilities for the West kitchen renovation had been completed and the kitchen is
now operating. Mr. Bradley reported sustainability was an important part of the food vision for the campus. Mr. Bradley
stated they had partnered with Slow Food US to plant 16 varietals and this year they were planting heirloom cherry
trees. Mr. Bradley stated the neighborhood integration included ProStart competition, Job Shadow Day, and minority
owned sub-contractors. Mr. Bradley stated they would be participating in the upcoming South Loop events: Toast of
the South Loop and South Loop Farmer's Market.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss sale of property.
Upon motion duly made by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

Ct. Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the March 27, 2018 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Hynes, and the remaining members present
voted approving item C1.

D1 . Consideration of Approval of Consignment Agreement for Sale of Painting.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D1.

D2. Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for Design-Build Services -
McCormick Place Headquarters Hotel, ABC Building.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D2.

D3. Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for Design-Build Services 
McCormick Place Headquarters Hotel and Event Center, Traf?c Signal Modi?cations.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ramirez, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D3.

D4. Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Supply and Delivery of Gasoline and Diesel Fuel.


May 22,2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom. 5"1 Floor
Chicago. IL 60616



Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D4.

D5. Consideration of Approval of New Sole Source Contract for Repair Parts and Maintenance
Services - Fountains.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D5.

D6. Consideration of Approval of Joint Procurement for Purchase of Uniforms.
Moved by Member Hynes. seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D6.
Adjournment

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ramirez, and the
meeting was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

 

Approved: May 22, 2018 Secretary/Treasu?r or Assistant Secretary


May 22, 2018

