301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

P'w 

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
March 27, 2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; David R. Kahnweiler*, Vice-Chairman; Jorge Ramirez,
Secretary/Treasurer; Roger J. Kiley; Terrance McGann; Juan A. Ochoa; Ronald E. Powell
*Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; Larita Clark, Chief Financial Officer;
David Winters, Chief Operations Officer; Michael Merchant, Director of intergovernmental Affairs Regulatory
Compliance; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Of?cer; David Causton, SMG/McCormick Place; Matthew Simmons,
Assistant General Counsel; Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of Procurement; Tiffany
Petties, Business Diversity Program Coordinator; Jeanette Swan, Director of Internal Audit; Pat Allen, Director of Labor
Relations; Jason Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital Management; Doug Bradley, Joseph T. Scheper,
SMG/McCormick Place; Rufus Purnell, Chicago Resident; Michael P. Doyle, CHMWarnick; McCafferty,
Hawthome Strategy Group, Inc. Marcos Feldman, Unite Here?Local 1; Valero, Hampton Inn; Alba Mejia, Unite
Here-Local 1; Jesus Soberanis, Hampton Inn; Brisa Soteto, Hampton Inn; Nancy Ontiveros, Hampton Inn; Alejandra
Monzon, Unite Here-Local 1; Ellar Mullen, Unite Here-Local 1; Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Vice-Chairman Kahnweiler to participate via teleconference. Upon motion
duly made by Member McGann and seconded by Member Kiley, the remaining members present unanimously voted
passing the motion.

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting on January 23, 2018.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

A3. Public Comment.

Ms. Ontiveros addressed the Board regarding a mandatory meeting employees needed to attend at
the Hampton Inn were she is employed. Ms. Ontiveros wanted the Board to be aware of the way
employees were treated, which they found to be offensive. Ms. Ontiveros asked the Board for their
help due to the impact the McCormick Square has on the hospitality industry. Ms. Healey informed
Ms. Ontiveros MPEA took those allegations seriously and a meeting had been scheduled to address
the matter. Member Ochoa stated the hospitality industry also needed to encourage diversity in their
promotions and management. Member Ramirez thanked Unite Here, Local1 for bringing the issue
to the Board's attention.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey stated the Senate Appropriations Hearing was scheduled for the following day, and
the House Appropriations Hearing would take place the following month.


April 24, 2018

301EastCennakRoad
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
ChmagolL60616

Report from Acting CFO: Ms. Clark presented the ?nancial results and the tax collections for February 2018.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton reported the United Airlines meeting had 2,000 attendees (doubled
from last year); International Home Housewares Show had 72,000 attendees (47 countries represented); GIobalShop
joined the largest RF ID and E-Commerce trade shows and will be back next year at McCormick Place (show rotates
but has decided to come back to Chicago); TESOL (professional meeting); and the 2018 Adidas Windy City National
Quali?er (35,000 young women basketball players) held theirevents on campus. Mr. Causton reported Local Initiatives
Support Corporation?s Neighborhood Development Awards; Chicago Comic Entertainment Expo the Black
Women's Expo; Oracle; the American Association for Cancer Research; and the American Diabetes Association Expo
Chicago would host their events in the following weeks on campus.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked fora motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss litigation and
workers compensation case. Upon motion duly made by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the
remaining members present unanimously voted to'convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, items C1 and C3 were presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1. Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the January 23, 2018 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item C1.

C3. Consideration of Workers Compensation Case Settlement Recommendation.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item C3.

D1. Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for Purchasing Agent to Procure
Furniture, Fixtures, and Equipment for the Marriott Marquis Chicago.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D1.

D2. Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for Purchasing Agent to Procure
Furniture, Fixtures, and Equipment for the Event Center at McCormick Place.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D2.

D3. Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Sole Source Contract for Repair and Inspection of
Trane Chillers in McCormick Place West Building.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D3.


April 24, 2018

D4.

D5.

D6.

D7.

D8.

D9.

D10.

D11.

D12.

D13.

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Consideration of Approval of Sole Source Contract for Hyatt DAS Technical Design and Project
Management.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D4.

Consideration of Approval of Amendment to Existing Contract for NE Conditions Assessment
Services Roofing, Waterproofing, Structural Restoration Program.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D5.

Consideration of Approval of Operating Budget for FY 2019, 2020, 2021.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D6.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Parking Management - McCormick Square.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D7.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension for Auditing Services.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D8.

Consideration of Approval of Brickstone Brewery Trademark License.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D9.

Consideration of Approval of the Procurement Report, Fiscal Year 2017.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D10.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Explosive Detection Canine Services.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D11.

Consideration of Approval of Joint Procurement for Purchase of Police Vehicle.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D12.

Consideration of Approval of Sole Source Contract for Astro Express Digital Radio Infrastructure
Equipment Repairs, System Software Upgrades, System Annual Maintenance Services.


April 24, 2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5lh Floor
Chicago, lL 60616

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ramirez, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D13.

D14. Consideration of Approval of Sole Source Contract for Handheld Portable and Mobile Radios
Purchases, Repair Services and Miscellaneous Parts.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D14.

Adjournment

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the
meeting was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

Approved: April 24, 2018 Secretary


April 24, 2018

