301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5?h Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
September 18, 2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; Daniel W. Hynes; Roger J. Kiley"; Terrance B. McGann; Juan A.
Ochoa; Ronald E. Powell

'Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer;
David Winters, Chief Operations Of?cer; Michael Merchant, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs Regulatory
Compliance; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Of?cer; David Causton, SMG/McCormick Place; Matthew Simmons,
Assistant General Counsel; Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of Procurement; Jeanette
Swan, Director of Internal Audit; Pat Allen, Director of Labor Relations; Stephanie Lovelace-Nieves, Controller; Jason
Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital Management; Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager, Community Engagement
and Special Events; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity Program Manager; Gloria Juarbe, Director of Human
Resources; Nicol Chervenak, Director of Planning and Program Management; Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick
Place; Doug Bradley, Scott Winterroth, SMG/McCormick Place; Rufus Purnell, Resident; McCafferty,
Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc.; Rudy Nava, Cris Toro, Amy Chen, Sarah Lyons, I. Mart, Mary Smith, Paul Davis,
Sonica Steed, D.Myph, Laura Myst, Felicia Sakes, Maria Sanchez, Jose A. Espinoza, J. Tompkins, Latasha Thomas,
Unite Here, Local 1; Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Member Kiley to participate via teleconference. Upon motion duly made
by Member Powell and seconded by Member Ochoa, the remaining members present unanimously voted passing the
motion.

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the July 24, 2018.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

A3. Public Comment.

Mr. Nava addressed the Board regarding the hotel strike. Mr. Nava wanted the Board to be aware of
the lack of yearlong health insurance for hotel employees. Mr. Nava stated he had lost his health
insurance coverage, and had a heart attack during the time he had no health insurance. Member
McGann stated everyone is in support of fair wages and yearlong health insurance.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey reported the International Manufacturing Technology Show (IMTS) had record
attendance. Ms. Healey stated at an Intersect Illinois it was announced a new Japanese manufacturing company was
moving to the area. Ms. Healey stated all the new public art had been installed including a clock donated by Shinola.
Ms. Healey stated the Chicago Fire Foundation would host their first luncheon on campus on Friday and After School
Matters Gala would be hosted next Monday at Wintrust Arena. Ms. Healey stated the Chicago Police Memorial


October 30, 2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5?1 Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Foundation's First Annual Valor Awards Dinner would be hosted on campus on November 8th and the Chicagoland
Sports Hall of Fame dinner on October 3rd.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the ?nancial results for August 2018 and the tax collections for August 2018.
Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton reported IMTS was moving out and had a successful show. Mr. Causton
stated IMTS had one of their largest shows with 120,000 attendees, and broke records for largest net square and
number of exhibits. Mr. Causton stated during American Society of Association Executives' (ASAE) Annual Meeting
partnered with Choose Chicago to welcome over 6,000 association executives, the highest attendance ever. Mr.
Causton stated competitors were also invited to ASAE. Mr. Causton stated Brett Eldrege, country singer, performed at
Wintrust Arena during ASAE.

Report on Fiscal Year 2019 MPEA Af?rmative Action Plan: Ms. Juarbe presented the Authority's Fiscal Year 2019
Equal Employment Opportunity/Af?rmative Action Plan.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session after the review of covered
actions and eligible agreements to discuss item C1. Upon motion duly made by Member Powell, seconded by Member
McGann, and the remaining members present unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1. Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the July 24, 2018 Regular Board Meeting.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item C1.

D1. Consideration of Approval of Economic Impact Study for McCormick Square.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D1.

D2. Consideration of Approval of New Contract? North Building Upgrades Study and Conceptual Design.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D2.

D3. Consideration of Approval of New Reference Contract Fencing Repair, Maintenance, and
Installation.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D3.

D4. Consideration of Approval of Contract Amendment Distributed Antenna System 

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D4.


October 30, 2018

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

D5. Consideration of Approval of New License Agreement.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D5.

D6 Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension Teletrol Building Automation System Maintenance
Services.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D6.

D7. Consideration of Approval of New Contract Glass Supply and Repair.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D7.

Adjournment

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Powell, and the
meeting was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

Approved: October 30, 2018 Secretary/Treasurer ol?ssistant Secretary


October 30, 2018

