301 East Cermak Road

Chicago, IL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
October 30, 2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; Jorge Ramirez, Secretary/Treasurer; Daniel W. Hynes"; Roger J.
Kiley; Juan A. Ochoa; Ronald E. Powell

*Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer;
David Winters, Chief Operations Of?cer; Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Of?cer; David Causton, SMG/McCormick
Place; Matthew Simmons, Assistant General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of Procurement; Pat Allen, Director of Labor
Relations; Stephanie Lovelace-Nieves, Controller; Jason Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital Management;
Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager, Community Engagement and Special Events; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity
Program Manager; Gloria Juarbe, Director of Human Resources; Nicol Chervenak, Director of Planning and Program
Management; Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick Place; Rufus Purnell, Resident; McCafferty, Hawthorne
Strategy Group, Inc.; Aleks Granchalek, Fifth Third; Kweku Obed, Marquette Associates, Inc.; Jesus Jimenez,
Marquette Associates, Inc.; Kelleye Chube, Governor's Of?ce; Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Member Hynes to participate via teleconference. Upon motion duly made
by Member Ramirez and seconded by Member Kiley, the remaining members present unanimously voted passing the


A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the September 18, 2018.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

A3. Consideration of Approval of the 2019 MPEA Board Meeting Schedule.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A3.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey stated all MPEA staff attended a procurement and ethics training. Ms. Healey stated
the Chicago Police Memorial Foundation's First Annual ValorAwards Dinner would be hosted on campus on November 
8th.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the financial results for September 2018 and the tax collections for September
2018.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton reported the International Manufacturing Technology Show (IMTS) had
129,450 attendees, and broke their 1998 record. Mr. Causton stated Pack Expo had 74,000 attendees and over 2,400
exhibitors. Mr. Causton stated American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons; American College of
Rheumatology; and American Academy of Ophthalmology were hosted on campus. Mr. Causton stated Matchroom


December 11, 2018

301EastCennakRoad
Corporate Boardroom, 5lh Floor
ChmagolL60616

Boxing USA was a successful event hosted at Wintrust Arena with coverage on ESPN and other media outlets. Mr.
Causton stated Mr. Causton stated Greenbuild International Conference and Expo; American Heart Association;
Association for Financial Professionals; and Intel Extreme Masters Chicago 2018 will be hosted on campus during

November.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss litigation and item
C1. Upon motion duly made by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item 01 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1.

D1.

D2.

D3.

D4.

D5.

D6.

Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the September 18, 2018 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item C1.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension for Lobbying Services.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D1.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Amendment for Strategic Communications Consultant.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D2.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Art Services.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item 03.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Amendment and Extension for Hotel Asset Manager.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D4.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 18-03 Resolution Regarding Discretionary
Contributions to the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority 401(a) Contribution Plan for Class 3
and Class 4 Participants.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item 05.

Consideration of Approval of Navy Pier Thorium Reimbursement Agreement.


December 11, 2018

0

301EastCennakRoad
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

FUWIM mthl?lmmn
w: 3?1" b- 1

D7.

D8.

D9.

D10.

Adjournment

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D6.

Consideration of Approval of Ordinance No. MPEA 18-01 Amendment of MPEA Airport Departure
Tax Ordinance.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, Chairman Hart abstained, and the remaining
members present voted approving item D7.

Consideration of Approval of Joint Procurement for Purchase of Police Vehicles.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D8.

Consideration of Approval of Sole Source Contract for Master Fire Node Central Control.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D9.

Consideration of Approval of Reference Contract for Ready Mix Concrete.

Moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D10.

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Ramirez, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the
meeting was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

Approved: December 11, 2018

 

Assistant Secretary


December 11, 2018

