Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago

Special Meeting – Regular Minutes

October 4, 2018
9:00 AM
Office of the Fund

 Date of Meeting:

October 4, 2018

Start Time:

9:07 a.m.

Location:

The Fund Office, 321 N. Clark Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60654

The following were Present:
Victor Roa
Erin Keane
Michael LoVerde
Carol Hamburger
James Capasso, Jr.
James Joiner
Graham Grady
James Wesner
Kweku Obed
Joseph McGuane
Michael Walsh
Peggy Grabowski
John Carroll
Nadia Oumata
Tina Rhoten
Paul Rzeszutko
Nicole Evangelista
Joe Healy

Absent:

Kurt Summers
Carole Brown

- President
- Vice President
- Secretary
- Trustee
- Trustee
- Trustee
- Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP, Fund’s Attorney
- Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
- Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
- Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
- Executive Director and Chief Investment Officer
- Comptroller
- Compliance Administrator
- Manager of Accounting and Investments
- Benefits Manager
- Assistant Benefits Manager
- Payment Services Coordinator
- Business Manager, Local Union 1092

- Trustee
- Trustee

A special meeting of the Retirement Board (“Board”) of the Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago was held at the Fund office on October 4, 2018. President Roa
declared there was a quorum after Secretary LoVerde took attendance. There was no public participation.

EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 1
At 9:07 a.m., Trustee Hamburger requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(7) to discuss the
sale or purchase of securities, investments or investment contracts. Trustee LoVerde seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 11:45 a.m., Trustee Hamburger made a motion, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that the executive session
be adjourned and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

The Trustee took no action.
Trustee Keane left the meeting at 10:45 a.m.
Retiree Healthcare Discussion
Mr. Joe Healy, Business Manager for Local Union 1092, addressed the Board regarding the Labor
Benefits Association (LBA) and its initiative to offer additional health insurance options to retired City of
Chicago employees. Mr. Healy noted that the LBA has teamed with AETNA to offer retired City of
Chicago employees an alternative to the Blue Cross Blue Shield plans that are currently sponsored by the

 City of Chicago. He reviewed some of the basic eligibility requirements and design features of the
AETNA plans. In order to facilitate the announcement of these AETNA plans to retirees, Mr. Healy asked
the Trustees if the LABF could provide the necessary address information for eligible retirees directly to a
third-party printer so that a blind mailing could be sent from the LBA. The mailing would include
materials explaining the new options from AETNA. The Trustees asked Fund Counsel to determine if the
Funds could provide the information needed for such a mailing without violating HIPAA. The Trustees
also asked questions about the $25 monthly subsidy and how it would be handled with the AETNA plans.
Mr. Healy also asked the Board if they would authorize the LABF to withhold and forward to AETNA
the appropriate healthcare premiums from annuitant checks for those who enroll in the AETNA plans.
As part of this discussion, the Trustees requested that Fund staff send a letter to LABF retirees informing
them of the various health insurance options available to them.
It was moved by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trustee Joiner, to authorize the LABF to coordinate
with Mr. Healy to provide information for a mailing from the LBA regarding the offering of the AETNA
health insurance plans and for the LABF to send a letter to retired LABF members informing them of the
various health insurance options and lastly, to authorize the LABF to withhold the appropriate premiums
from the annuity checks for those members who enroll in the AETNA retiree healthcare plans.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

After the healthcare discussion, the trustees decided to reenter executive session to continue the
discussion of the Hedged Credit Search presentations.
EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 2
At 12:19 p.m., Trustee LoVerde requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(7) to discuss the
sale or purchase of securities, investments or investment contracts. Trustee Capasso seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 12:28 p.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion, seconded by Trustee Joiner, that the executive session be
adjourned and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

The Trustee took no action.

ADJOURNMENT
With no further business, at 12:28 p.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion to adjourn. Trustee Joiner
seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For-- Trustees Roa, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against – None.

 