LABORERS’ & RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
September 18, 2018

Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting No. 1001
September 18, 2018

Suite 1300 ● 321 N Clark Street ● Chicago Illinois 60654-4739
(312) 236-2065 ● Fax (312) 236-0574

1

 LABORERS’ & RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
September 18, 2018
Report of Meeting No. 1,001 held on September 18, 2018, starting at 1:02 p.m. at the office of the Laborers’ and Retirement
Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (“Fund” or “LABF”). The following notes attendance:
Board Members:

Victor Roa
Erin Keane
Michael LoVerde
Carol Hamburger
James Capasso, Jr.
Carole Brown
James Joiner

– President (Union Appointed Member)
– Vice President (City Comptroller, City of Chicago)
– Secretary (Active Employee Elected Member)
– Trustee (Managing Deputy Comptroller, City of Chicago)
– Trustee (Annuitant Elected Member)
– Trustee (Chief Financial Officer, City of Chicago)
– Trustee (Active Employee Elected Member)

Staff & Consultants: Graham Grady
Cary Donham
Dr. Terence Sullivan
Kweku Obed
Neil Capps
Craig Goesel
Clayton Casale
Michael Walsh
Peggy Grabowski
John Carroll
Sheila Jones
Nadia Oumata
Tina Rhoten
Paul Rzeszutko
Kimberly Dougherty
Irene Velazquez
Nicole Evangelista

– Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP, Fund’s Counsel
– Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP, Fund’s Counsel
– Fund’s Physician
– Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
– Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
– Alliant/Mesirow Insurance Services (by phone)
– Alliant/Mesirow Insurance Services
– Executive Director and Chief Investment Officer
– Comptroller
– Compliance Administrator
– Administrative Coordinator
– Manager of Accounting and Investments
– Benefits Manager
– Assistant Benefits Manager
– Benefits Coordinator
– Assistant Benefits Manager
– Payment Services Coordinator

Absent:
Observer:

– Trustee (City Treasurer, City of Chicago)
– UnitedService Companies

Kurt Summers, Jr.
Ray Walton

President Roa determined that a quorum was present after Secretary LoVerde took attendance.

2

 LABORERS’ & RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
September 18, 2018
Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago

Board Members:
I am transmitting herewith the minutes for the meeting of the Retirement Board which was held on September 18,
2018. The minutes are comprised of the following:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Public Participation
Approval of Minutes from Prior Meetings
Schedule A: Applications for Refunds
1. Refund of Contributions Due to Separation from Service
2. Miscellaneous Refunds
Schedule B: Applications for Annuities
1. Employee Annuities
2. Spouse and Child Annuities
Schedule C: Adjustment Refunds to New Annuitants
Schedule D: Applications for Duty Disability Benefits
Schedule E: Applications for Ordinary Disability Benefits
Schedule F: Applications for Extension of Duty Disability Benefits
Schedule G: Applications for Extension of Ordinary Disability Benefits
Schedule H: Payment of Uncashed Checks of Deceased Members
Schedule I: Payment of Administrative Expenses
Investments Report
Administrative Hearing – Dedrick Moore
Executive Session No. 1
Administrative Report
Legal Report
Executive Session No. 2
Executive Session No. 3
Taken out of order. Fiduciary Liability Insurance Renewal Presentation
Adjournment

All the foregoing matters were checked upon receipt in the office of the Retirement Board and were found to be
hereinafter set forth.
Sincerely,

Michael R. LoVerde
Retirement Board Secretary

3

 LABORERS’ & RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
September 18, 2018
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
None.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM PREVIOUS MEETINGS
It was moved by Trustee LoVerde, seconded by Trustee Joiner, that the regular minutes of Meeting No. 1000 held
on August 21, 2018 be approved as submitted.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

It was moved by Trustee LoVerde, seconded by Trustee Joiner, that the minutes of Executive Sessions 1, 2, 3 and 4
of Meeting No. 1000 held on August 21, 2018 be approved as submitted.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

SCHEDULE A – APPLICATIONS FOR REFUNDS
1. Refund of Contributions Due to Separation from Service
It was moved by Trustee Brown, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that the applications presented for Refunds of
Contributions Due to Separation from Service be approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None
2. Miscellaneous Refunds
It was moved by Trustee Joiner, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that the applications presented for Miscellaneous
Refunds of Contributions be approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

SCHEDULE B – APPLICATIONS FOR ANNUITIES
1. Employee Annuities
It was moved by Trustee Capasso, seconded by Trustee Joiner, that the applications for Employee Annuities be
approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None
2. Spouse and Child Annuities
It was moved by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trustee Joiner, that the applications for Spouse and Child
Annuities be approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

SCHEDULE C – ADJUSTMENT REFUNDS TO NEW ANNUITANTS
It was moved by Trustee Joiner, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that the Adjustment Refunds to New Annuitants be
approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

SCHEDULE D – APPLICATIONS FOR DUTY DISABILITY BENEFITS
It was moved by Trustee LoVerde, seconded by Trustee Joiner, that the applications for Duty Disability Benefits be
approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

4

 LABORERS’ & RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
September 18, 2018
SCHEDULE E – APPLICATIONS FOR ORDINARY DISABILITY BENEFITS
It was moved by Trustee Joiner, seconded by Trustee Capasso, that the applications for Ordinary Disability Benefits
be approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

SCHEDULE F – EXTENSION OF DUTY DISABILITY BENEFITS
It was moved by Trustee Brown, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that the applications for Extension of Duty Disability
Benefits be approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

SCHEDULE G – EXTENSION OF ORDINARY DISABILITY BENEFITS
It was moved by Trustee LoVerde, seconded by Trustee Joiner, that the applications for Extension of Ordinary
Disability Benefits be approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None

SCHEDULE H – PAYMENT OF UNCASHED CHECKS OF DECEASED MEMBERS
It was moved by Trustee Capasso, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that the applications for Payment of Uncashed
Checks of Deceased Members be approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against – None

SCHEDULE I – PAYMENT OF EXPENSES
It was moved by Trustee Joiner, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that Administrative Expenses be approved and ordered paid.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against – None

INVESTMENTS REPORT
Market Tracker
Mr. Obed reviewed the August 2018 market performance.
August 31, 2018 Preliminary Performance Report
Mr. Obed reviewed the Fund’s August 31, 2018 Preliminary Performance Report.
Asset Allocation Follow-Up/Implementation Discussion
This item was not addressed in the meeting.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
Dedrick Moore, a Fund member, requested a hearing to appeal a previous decision by the Board to deny his application
for annuity benefits which took place at the April 17, 2018 Board meeting. Mr. Moore was accompanied by his
counsel, Paul Ankin of Ankin Law Office, LLC. The hearing began at 1:18 p.m. and was transcribed by a court
reporter. The transcript of the proceedings is incorporated into these minutes by reference. Victor Roa, Board
President, presided over the hearing. At the conclusion of all testimony, the trustees decided to enter executive session
pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11).

5

 LABORERS’ & RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
September 18, 2018
EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 1
At 2:14 p.m., Trustee Hamburger requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11) to discuss current or
potential litigation involving the Fund. Trustee Brown seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 2:39 p.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion, seconded by Trustee Brown, that the executive session be adjourned
and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

It was moved by Trustee LoVerde, seconded by Trustee Brown, to reverse the Board’s April 18, 2018 denial of Mr.
Moore’s application for Employee Annuity benefits and to instead approve Mr. Moore Employee Annuity application
with retroactive payments to his Annuity Start Date (February 1, 2018).
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

Mr. Donham stated that the Board would follow-up with a written decision shortly after the next Board meeting,
which is scheduled for October 23, 2018.

ADMINISTRATIVE REPORT
Actuarial Impact Statement
Trustee Brown, in her capacity of Chief Financial Officer of the City of Chicago, requested that the Board consider
approving in advance the commissioning of an actuarial impact statement, if needed, from its actuary related to a
possible pension obligation bond that is being reviewed. Trustee Brown noted that City of Chicago would pay for the
cost of the impact statement.
It was moved by Trustee Capasso, seconded by Trustee Hamburger, to grant the Executive Director the authority to
engage the Fund actuary in order to prepare an actuarial impact statement related to a pension obligation bond that is
under consideration by the City of Chicago, if requested by the City.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

Active Employee Election Update
Mr. Walsh reported that a certification letter declaring the incumbent Trustee, James Joiner, the winner of the Trustee
election for a three-year term that begins on December 2, 2018 had been signed by the Election Committee. Mr. Walsh
noted that Trustee Joiner will be scheduled to be re-sworn in prior to the December 18, 2018 meeting.
Employee Handbook
As a follow-up to the August Board meeting, Mr. Walsh and the Trustees reviewed the following sections of the most
recent draft Employee Handbook: (1) Paid Administrative Leave/Vacation Leave, (2) Paid Sick Time, (3) Comp Time
and (4) Tuition Reimbursement. The Trustees made some comments and suggested changes to the draft. Mr. Walsh
said he would incorporate the changes and present a new draft at the next Board meeting.
Revised Ethics Policy Draft
Mr. Walsh reviewed a draft revised Ethics Policy that he had previously discussed at the August Board meeting. The
Trustees discussed the Sanctions section of the Ethics Policy and suggested revisions. The Trustees suggested that
the LABF consider pursuing a statutory change to explicitly allow for additional sanctions against a Trustee in the
event of misconduct.
It was moved by Trustee Keane, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, to approve the revised Ethics Policy as amended. The
Ethics Policy as approved by the Board is attached to these minutes.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

6

 LABORERS’ & RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
September 18, 2018

Draft Revised Sexual and Other Harassment Policy
Mr. Walsh discussed the proposed changes to the draft revised Sexual and Other Harassment Policy. See attached
policy.
It was moved by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trustee Joiner, to approve the revised Sexual Harassment Policy.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

Legislative Matters
Mr. Walsh informed the Board that the Illinois Governor used his amendatory veto power with respect to House Bill
4811, which includes technical corrections to Public Act 100-0023, but that the governor did not suggest revisions to
any of the sections containing technical corrections affecting LABF. The governor’s changes pertained to a provision
that provides the Municipal Employees Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (“MEABF”) with more discretion
regarding the frequency with which disabled members are required to visit with the MEABF’s physician. Mr. Walsh
stated that it is not yet clear how the Municipal Fund would like to proceed concerning the Governor’s amendment,
and he will keep the Trustees updated on this matter.
Miscellaneous
Marquette Symposium - Mr. Walsh reported that the Marquette’s 2018 Investment Symposium is scheduled for Friday,
September 28, 2018 and noted that staff could coordinate registration for the Trustees who are interested in attending.
Special Meeting - Mr. Walsh reminded Trustees that a Special meeting is scheduled for Thursday, October 4, 2018 at
9:00 a.m.
Senate Hearings – Mr. Walsh informed the Trustees that the Senate Special Committee on State Pension Fund
Investments is to be held on October 16-17, 2018. The LABF is scheduled to be called last on October 17, 2018.
Signature Verification Form Update – Mr. Walsh reported that the LABF has nearly completed the 2018 Signature
Verification Form process and approximately 45 forms were still outstanding. Mr. Walsh noted that the October
annuity payments for annuitants who have not yet returned their forms would be held at the office until the
corresponding forms have been received and the signatures verified. Mr. Walsh additionally noted that due to the law
which granted the Fund access to the State’s vital records data, the LABF has been more effective in identifying the
deaths of its annuitants which has greatly limited annuity overpayments.

LEGAL REPORT
It was moved by Trustee Hamburger, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, to refer the matter of Dedrick Moore to the Cook
County State’s Attorney’s office for review pursuant 40 ILCS 5/1-135.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 2
At 3:19 p.m., Trustee Hamburger requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11) to discuss current or
potential litigation involving the Fund. Trustee LoVerde seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 3:22 p.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion, seconded by Trustee Capasso, that the executive session be adjourned
and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

The Trustees took no action.
Workers’ Compensation Matter
This topic was discussed in executive session.

7

 LABORERS’ & RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
September 18, 2018

EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 3
At 3:22 p.m., Trustee LoVerde requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11) to discuss current or
potential litigation involving the Fund. Trustee Hamburger seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 3:26 p.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion, seconded by Trustee Capasso, that the executive session be adjourned
and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

The Trustees took no action.

Fraud Matter
This specific item was not addressed in the meeting.
Carmichael Litigation
Mr. Donham gave a brief update on the status of the Carmichael litigation and noted that the Illinois Supreme Court
heard oral arguments on several important aspects of the matter. Mr. Donham stated that it is difficult to say which
way the justices were leaning and said the parties were anticipating a decision within the next 90 to 180 days.
Alliant/Mesirow Fiduciary Liability Insurance Presentation
This item was taken out of order. Craig Goesel (by phone) and Clayton Casale of Alliant/Mesirow Insurance Services
presented a proposal for the renewal of the LABF’s fiduciary liability and cyber liability insurance policies. The
Trustees discussed the coverage limits and reviewed other aspects of the coverage.
It was moved by Trustee Brown, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, to approve Option II as shown in the presentation
materials.
Roll-call:

For—Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

See attached document.

ADJOURNMENT
With no further business, at 3:39 p.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Trustee Capasso
seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, Brown and Joiner.
Against -- None.

23722608.1

8

 LABORERS’ AND RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
ETHICS POLICY
The Board of the Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
desires to enhance and promote the professional management of LABF.
To further these objectives and the provisions of the Illinois Pension Code governing LABF and the
Board, all Board Members and Employees of LABF shall adhere (1) to legal and ethical standards in the
fulfillment of their fiduciary and other responsibilities, and (2) to the following statements of policy (the
“Policy”):
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
The definitions used in this Policy are limited to the Policy and shall not be binding on LABF for
any other purpose. Whenever used in this Policy, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
“Board” means the Retirement Board of the Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity
and Benefit Fund of Chicago.
“Board Member” means an elected, appointed or ex-officio member of the Board.
“Compensation” means money, thing of value or other pecuniary benefit received or to be received
in return for, or as reimbursement for, services rendered or to be rendered.
“Domestic partner” means a “qualified domestic partner” as defined in Section 2-152-072 of
the Municipal Code of Chicago, as amended.
“Employee” means an individual employed by LABF, whether part-time or full-time, but excludes
Board Members and third-party vendors of LABF.
“Financial Interest” means an interest held by an individual that is valued or capable of valuation
in monetary terms with a current value of more than $1,000.00, provided that such interest shall not include:
(1) the authorized compensation paid to an individual for any office or employment; or (2) a time or demand
deposit in a financial institution; or (3) an endowment or insurance policy or annuity contract purchased
from an insurance company; or (4) any ownership through purchase at fair market value or inheritance of
the shares of a mutual fund corporation, regardless of the value of or dividends on such shares, if such
shares are registered on a securities exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;
or (5) any ownership through purchase at fair market value or inheritance of not more than one-half of one
percent of the outstanding common stock of the shares of a corporation, or any corporate subsidiary, parent
or affiliate thereof, regardless of the dividends on such shares, if such shares are registered on a securities
exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
“LABF” means the Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of
Chicago.

Page 1 of 9

 “Gift”, as defined in the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/1-5, means any
gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or other tangible or intangible item having
monetary value including, but not limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to the position of a Board Member or Employee. Honoraria means an honorary
payment or reward usually given as compensation for services on which custom or propriety forbids any
fixed business price to be set or for which no payment can be enforced at law.
“Party-in-Interest,” a person is a “party-in-interest” with respect to LABF if the person is: (a) a
fiduciary, counsel, or Employee of LABF; or a Relative of such a person; (b) a person providing services
to LABF, or a Relative of such a person; (c) an employer, any of whose employees are covered by LABF;
(d) an employee organization, any members of which are covered by LABF; or (e) an employee, officer, or
director (or an individual having powers or responsibilities similar to those of an officer or director) of
LABF or of a person described under item (b), (c), or (d) above.
“Prohibited Source,” means a person or entity who: (a) is seeking official action by LABF, the
Board or a Board Member; (b) does business or seeks to do business with LABF, the Board or with a Board
Member; (c) has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or non-performance of the
official duties of the Board or a Board Member; or (d) is registered or required to be registered with the
Secretary or State under the Lobbyist Registration Act, except that an entity not otherwise a Prohibited
Source does not become a Prohibited Source merely because a registered lobbyist is one of its members or
serves on its board of directors.
“Relative” means a person who is related to an individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother,
sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, domestic partner,
fiancé, fiancée, grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter,
stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or
grandmother of the individual’s spouse, domestic partner, or fiancé or fiancée.
“Seeking to do business” means: (a) taking any action within the past six months to obtain a
contract or business from LABF when, if such action were successful, it would result in a person or entity
doing business with LABF; and (b) the contract or business sought has not been awarded to any person or
entity.
ARTICLE II
CODE OF CONDUCT
2.1
Fiduciary Duty. Board Members and certain Employees are fiduciaries per the Illinois
Pension Code and shall at all times, in the performance of their duties, owe a fiduciary duty to LABF,
its participants and their beneficiaries.
Pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-101.2, a person is a "fiduciary" with respect
to LABF to the extent that the person:
(a)
exercises any discretionary authority or discretionary control respecting management
of LABF, or exercises any authority or control respecting management or disposition of its assets;
(b)
renders investment advice or renders advice on the selection of fiduciaries for a fee
or other Compensation, direct or indirect, with respect to any moneys or other property of LABF,
or has any authority or responsibility to do so; or
Page 2 of 9

 (c)
of LABF.

has any discretionary authority or discretionary responsibility in the administration

2.2
Prohibited Transactions. Pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-110, the
following transactions are prohibited:
(a)
A Board Member or other fiduciary with respect to LABF shall not cause LABF to
engage in a transaction if he or she knows or should know that such transaction constitutes a direct
or indirect:
(i)
Sale or exchange, or leasing of any property from LABF to a Party-in-Interest
for less than adequate consideration, or from a Party-in-Interest to LABF for more than
adequate consideration.
(ii)
Lending of money or other extension of credit from LABF to a Party-inInterest without the receipt of adequate security and a reasonable rate of interest, or from a
Party-in-Interest to LABF with the provision of excessive security or an unreasonably high
rate of interest.
(iii) Furnishing of goods, services or facilities from LABF to a Party-in-Interest
for less than adequate consideration, or from a Party-in-Interest to LABF for more than
adequate consideration.
(iv)
Transfer to, or use by or for the benefit of, a Party-in-Interest of any assets of
LABF for less than adequate consideration.
(b)

A Board Member or other fiduciary of LABF shall not:

(i)
account;

Deal with the assets of LABF in his or her interest or for his or her own

(ii)
In his or her individual capacity or any other capacity act in any transaction
involving LABF on behalf of a party whose interests are adverse to the interests of LABF or
the interests of its participants or beneficiaries; or
(iii) Receive any consideration for his or her own personal account from any party
dealing with LABF in connection with a transaction involving the assets of LABF.
(c)
Nothing in this Section 2.2 shall be construed to prohibit any Board Member or other
fiduciary from:
(i)
Receiving any benefit to which he or she may be entitled as a participant or
beneficiary in LABF; or
(ii)
Receiving any reimbursement of expenses properly and actually incurred in
the performance of his or her duties with LABF; or
(iii) Serving as a Board Member in addition to being an officer, employee, agent
or other representative of a Party-in-Interest.

Page 3 of 9

 (d)
A Board Member or Employee with respect to LABF shall not knowingly cause or
advise LABF to engage in an investment transaction with an investment adviser when the Board
Member or Employee, or their spouse or domestic partner (i) has any direct interest in the income,
gains, or profits of the investment adviser through which the investment transaction is made or (ii)
has a relationship with the investment advisor that would result in a pecuniary benefit to the Board
Member or Employee or spouse or domestic partner of such Board Member or Employee, as a result
of the investment transaction. Pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-110(e), a violation
of this subsection (d) is a Class 4 felony.
2.3

Receiving and Soliciting Gifts.

(a)
Pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-125, no Board Member or
Employee, his or her spouse or domestic partner, or any immediate family living with that Board
Member or Employee shall intentionally solicit or accept any Gift from any Prohibited Source as
prescribed in Article 10 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.
(“State Officials and Employees Ethics Act”); provided, however, that this prohibition shall not
apply to the following:
(i)
Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same conditions
as for the general public.
(ii)

Anything for which the Board Member or Employee pays the market value.

(iii) Any (1) contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code, 10 ILCS
5/1-1 et seq., as amended, or under the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, or (2)
activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political organization or
candidate.
(iv)

Solicitation or acceptance of educational materials.

(v)

A Gift from a Relative.

(vi)
Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal friendship
unless the Board Member or Employee has reason to believe that, under the circumstances,
the Gift was provided because of the official position or employment of the Board Member
or Employee and not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a Gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the Board Member or Employee shall consider
the circumstances under which the Gift was offered, such as:
(A)
the history of the relationship between the individual giving the Gift
and the recipient of the Gift, including any previous exchange of Gifts between those
individuals;
(B)
whether to the actual knowledge of the Board Member or Employee
the individual who gave the Gift personally paid for the Gift or sought a tax deduction
or business reimbursement for the Gift; and
(C)
whether to the actual knowledge of the Board Member or Employee
the individual who gave the Gift also at the same time gave the same or similar Gifts
to other Board Members or Employees.
Page 4 of 9

 (vii) Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a single
calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are (1) consumed on the premises from
which they were purchased or prepared or (2) catered. For the purposes of this Section,
“catered” means food or refreshments that are purchased ready to eat and delivered by any
means.
(viii) Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits resulting from
the outside business or employment activities (or outside activities that are not connected to
the duties of the Board Member or Employee) of the Board Member or Employee, or the
spouse of the Board Member or Employee, if the benefits have not been offered or enhanced
because of the official position or employment of the Board Member or Employee, and are
customarily provided to others in similar circumstances.
(ix)
Intra-governmental gift and inter-governmental gift. For the purpose of this
Policy, “intra-governmental gift" means any Gift given to a Board Member or Employee of
LABF from another Board Member or Employee of LABF; "inter-governmental gift" means
any Gift given to a Board Member or Employee of LABF by a member, officer or employee
of any governmental entity.
(x)

Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.

(xi)
Any item or items from any one Prohibited Source during any calendar year
having a cumulative total value of less than $100.00.
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and independent of one another.
(b)
A Board Member or Employee does not violate this Policy if the Board Member or
Employee promptly takes reasonable action to return the prohibited Gift to its source or gives the
Gift or an amount equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation
under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended,
renumbered, or succeeded. (5 ILCS 430/10-30).
(c)
Gifts which have a value of greater than $100 (or a series of Gifts with an aggregate
value of greater than $100 from one Prohibited Source during any twelve month period) received
by any Board Member or Employee from a Prohibited Source shall be disclosed to LABF’s
executive director by the recipient within ten business days of receipt. The disclosure shall include
the name and title of the recipient; the name, address, occupation and employer of the donor; a
description of the Gift and its value; and the intended use or actual disposition of the Gift, in
accordance with this Policy.
(d)
Pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-125(e), a violation of this Section
2.3 is a Class A misdemeanor
(e)
Nothing in this Policy shall prohibit any Board Member or Employee from accepting
a Gift in accordance with this Policy on LABF's behalf; provided, however, the person accepting
the Gift shall promptly report receipt of the Gift to the Board and to the executive director, who
shall add it to the inventory of LABF property.
2.4
Solicitation or Receipt of Money for Advice or Assistance. No Board Member or
Employee, or the spouse, domestic partner or minor child of any of them, shall solicit or accept any
Page 5 of 9

 money or other thing of value including, but not limited to, Gifts, favors, services or promises of future
employment, in return for advice or assistance on matters concerning the operation or business of
LABF; provided, however, that nothing in this Policy shall prevent a Board Member or Employee or
the spouse or domestic partner of a Board Member or Employee from accepting Compensation for
services wholly unrelated to the Board Member's or Employee's duties and responsibilities to LABF
and rendered as part of his or her non-LABF employment, occupation or profession.
2.5
Use or Disclosure of Confidential Information No current or former Board Member or
Employee shall use or disclose, other than in the performance of his or her LABF related duties and
responsibilities, or as may be required by law, confidential information gained in the course of or by
reason of his or her position or employment with LABF. For purposes of this section, “confidential
information” means any information that may not be obtained pursuant to the Illinois Freedom of
Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq., as amended.
2.6

Conflicts of Interest; Appearance of Impropriety.

(a)
No Board Member or Employee shall make or participate in the making of any
decision relating to LABF or its assets with respect to any matter in which he or she has any
Financial Interest or business relationship distinguishable from that of the general public or from
which he or she has derived any income or Compensation.
(b)
To avoid even an appearance of impropriety, any Board Member who has a business
relationship with a person or entity with a matter pending before LABF shall publicly disclose the
nature of such business relationship on the record at a regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of
Trustees and shall also notify the executive director of such relationship in writing as soon as the
business relationship arises. The Board shall make such disclosures available for public inspection
and copying. The Board Member shall abstain from voting on any matter in which he or she has a
Financial Interest or business relationship distinguishable from that of the general public but shall
be counted present for purposes of a quorum. The obligation to report a potential conflict of interest
under this subsection arises as soon as the Board Member is or should be aware of such potential
conflict. For purposes of this subsection only,: (i) “matter pending before LABF” shall refer to
LABF action involving the grant of benefits, award of investment management business, any
contractual matters involving expenditure of LABF assets; and (ii) “business relationship” shall
refer to any contractual or other private business dealing of a Board Member, or his or her spouse
or domestic partner, or of any entity in which a Board Member or his or her spouse or domestic
partner has a Financial Interest or business relationship distinguishable from that of the general
public, with a person or entity which entitles a Board Member or his or her spouse or domestic
partner to compensation or payment in the amount of $2,500 or more in a calendar year; provided,
however, that “contractual or other private business dealing” shall not include any employment
relationship of a Board Member's spouse or domestic partner with an entity when such spouse or
domestic partner has no discretion concerning or input relating to the relationship between that entity
and LABF.
(c)
Any Board Member or Employee who has a Financial Interest or in any entity
seeking to do business with LABF or with respect to any matter pending before LABF shall disclose
the nature of such interest to the Board of Trustees. The obligation to disclose under this subsection
arises as soon as the Board Member or Employee is or should be aware of the pendency of the
matter.

Page 6 of 9

 2.7
Representation of Other Persons. No Board Member or Employee may represent, or
have a Financial Interest in the representation of, any person, in any judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding
before LABF, any administrative agency or any court in which LABF is a party and that person's interest
is adverse to that of LABF.
2.8
Prohibited Conduct. No Board Member or Employee or the spouse or domestic partner
of such Board Member or Employee, or any entity in which such Board Member or Employee or his or
her spouse or domestic partner has a Financial Interest, shall apply for, solicit, accept or receive a loan
of any amount from any person who is either doing business or seeking to do business with LABF;
provided, however, that nothing in this section prohibits application for, solicitation for, acceptance of
or receipt of a loan from a financial lending institution, if the loan is negotiated at arm's length and is
made at a market rate in the ordinary course of the lender's business. This subsection shall not apply to
an entity in which the only financial interest of the Board Member or Employee is his or her spouse or
domestic partner’s independent occupation, profession or employment.
2.9

No Monetary Gain on Investments. Pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-

130:
(a)
No Board Member or Employee, or any spouse or domestic partner of such Board
Member or Employee, shall knowingly have any direct interest in the income, gains, or profits of
any investments made on behalf of LABF, nor receive any pay or emolument for services in
connection with any investment. No Board Member or Employee shall become an endorser or
surety, or in any manner an obligor for money loaned or borrowed from any retirement system or
pension LABF created under the Illinois Pension Code or the Illinois State Board of Investment.
For the purposes of this provision, an annuity otherwise provided in accordance with the Illinois
Pension Code or any income, gains, or profits related to any non-controlling interest in any public
securities, mutual fund, or other passive investment shall not be considered monetary gain on
investments.
(b)
2.10

A violation of this provision is a Class 3 Felony.
Fraud. Pursuant the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-135:

(a)
No Board Member or Employee shall knowingly make any false statement(s) or
falsify or permit to be falsified any record of LABF in an attempt to defraud LABF.
(b)

A violation of this provision is a Class 3 Felony.

2.11 Contingent and Placement Fees Prohibited. Pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40
ILCS 5/1-145:
(a)
No person or entity shall retain a person or entity to attempt to influence the outcome
of an investment decision of or the procurement of investment advice or services of a retirement
system, pension fund, or investment board of the Illinois Pension Code for compensation, contingent
in whole or in part upon the decision or procurement.
(b)
Any person who violates this provision is guilty of a business offense and shall be
fined not more than $10,000. Any person convicted of a violation of this provision is prohibited for
a period of three years from conducting such activities.

Page 7 of 9

 2.12

Approval of Travel or Educational Mission.

(a)
Periodic travel by a Board Member, an ex officio Board Member representative, and
an Employee is necessary for LABF business and operations. The LABF will pay for expenses
necessarily incurred by a Board Member, an ex officio Board Member representative, or an
Employee carrying out his or her fiduciary duties. The expenses for travel or educational missions
of a Board Member (pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-150), an ex officio Board
Member representative, and an Employee must be approved in advance by a majority of the Board.
(b)
It shall be the policy of the Board, consistent with the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act that Board Members, ex officio Board Member representatives, and Employees not
solicit nor accept Gifts, including the payment of travel or educational missions, from any Prohibited
Source.
2.13

Retaliation Prohibited. Whistleblower Protection.

(a)
LABF shall not tolerate adverse treatment of or retaliation against any individual
whether Board Member or Employee because he or she reports a misconduct, or provides
information related to such complaints. This Policy strictly prohibits retaliation of any form against
anyone who complains of alleged violations of this Policy, the prohibition against retaliation also
applies to any Board Member or Employee involved in or cooperating with any investigation of
alleged offending conduct under this Policy.
(b)
Any acts of retaliation will be considered a violation of this Policy, and corrective
action will be taken promptly, up to and including the possible removal or termination of any
individual who engages in retaliation of any form. In addition, retaliation for making a good faith
report or complaint of sexual or other unlawful harassment may violate the Illinois Human Rights
Act, the State Officials and Employee Ethics Act and the Illinois Whistleblower Act, each of which
provide remedies for individuals who suffer retaliation.
(c)
This section 2.13 shall not apply to a Board Member or Employee who knowingly
makes a false report.

ARTICLE III
ETHICS TRAINING
Pursuant to the Illinois Pension Code, 40 ILCS 5/1-113.18, all Board Members must attend ethics
training of at least eight hours per year. The training required includes training on ethics, fiduciary duty,
and investment issues and any other curriculum that the Board establishes as being important for the
administration of the LABF. The Board must annually certify its Board Members’ compliance with the
ethics training requirements.

Page 8 of 9

 ARTICLE IV
DISCLOSURE OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS
Pursuant to the Illinois Governmental Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 420/4A-101(o), each Board Member shall
file a verified written statements of economic interests.
The statement of economic interest must be filed with the Cook County Clerk (5 ILCS 420/4A-106),
on or before May 1 of each year (5 ILCS 420/4A-105) and shall comply substantially with the disclosures
prescribe by 5 ILCS 420/4A-104.

ARTICLE V
PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
5.1

Sanctions.

(a)
Any Employee found to have violated any of the provisions of this Policy, or to have
furnished false or misleading information to the Board, shall be subject to employment sanctions,
up to and including discharge, in accordance with procedures under which the employee may
otherwise be disciplined.
(b)
Certain actions in violation of this Policy may subject a Board Member or Employee
to civil and criminal penalties pursuant to, among others, the Illinois Pension Code, 5 ILCS 5/1-114
and 115.
5.2
Other Remedies. Nothing in this Policy shall preclude the LABF from maintaining an
action for any pecuniary benefit received by any person in violation of this Policy or other law, or to
recover damages for violation of this Policy.

Effective Date:
Revised:

November 16, 2004
December 17, 2010
September 18, 2018

Page 9 of 9

 LABORERS’ AND RETIREMENT BOARD EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO (“LABF”)
POLICY ON SEXUAL AND OTHER HARASSMENT
 
Harassment of any sort—verbal, written, physical, or visual—is not tolerated.  
The LABF intends to provide a work environment that is pleasant, professional and free from intimidation, 
harassment, hostility or other offenses that might interfere with work performance.  In furtherance of this 
objective, all Employees and Board Members are required to adhere to this Policy on Sexual and Other 
Harassment (the “Policy”). 
Definitions of Harassment 
Harassment  is  behavior  that  can  be  as  serious  as  a  threat  or  coercion  or  less  egregious  conduct  that 
interferes  with  another  person’s  ability  to  perform  his  or  her  job.  Harassment  is  illegal  when  it  is  so 
frequent or severe that it creates a hostile or offensive work environment or when it results in an adverse 
employment decision. 
When you are considering whether or not behavior, either yours or someone else's, could be considered
harassment, ask yourself whether:



the behavior could be construed to be offensive, uninvited, unwanted, demeaning, or any 
combination of these things; 



the behavior resulted in the recipient’s walking away; being the target of a joke or prank; 
looking  hurt,  annoyed  or  offended;  or  demonstrating  other  verbal  or  non‐verbal  clues 
suggesting that the conduct was offensive to him or her or that the recipient did not wish 
to be around such conduct or comments; 



the behavior could interfere with job performance - whether you believe it actually did or 
not; 



the behavior could cause discomfort, humiliation, embarrassment, hurt feelings and/or 
other harm to others in the workplace – whether you believe that it actually did or not.

If you can answer “yes” to any one of these questions, the behavior could violate the Policy. 
Workplace harassment can take many forms. It may be, but is not limited to, comments, signs, offensive 
jokes, cartoons, pictures, posters, electronic mail or statements, pranks, intimidation, physical assaults or 
contact, or violence. Harassment is not necessarily sexual or racial in nature. It may also include offensive 
remarks not directed to the offended individual.  
Sexual harassment includes, but is not limited to, unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors 
or  other  verbal  or  non‐verbal  or  physical  contact  and  behavior  of  a  sexual  nature  when  such  conduct 
creates  an  offensive,  hostile,  and  intimidating  working  environment  and  prevents  an  individual  from 
effectively performing the duties of his or her position. It also encompasses such conduct when it is made 
a  term  or  condition  of  employment  or  compensation,  either  implicitly  or  explicitly,  and  when  an 
employment decision is based on an individual's acceptance or rejection of such conduct. 

 Discriminatory harassment includes verbal or physical conduct that denigrates, ridicules, insults or shows 
hostility or aversion toward an individual because of that person’s race, color, religion, national origin, 
gender, age, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, pregnancy, marital status, military service, 
or  any  legally  protected  status;  and  that  creates  an  offensive,  hostile  and  intimidating  working 
environment thereby preventing an individual from effectively performing the duties of their position or 
that  is  implicitly  or  explicitly  made  a  term  or  condition  of  employment  or  compensation  or  when  an 
employment decision is based on an individual's acceptance or rejection of such conduct. 
Third‐Party Victims 
This Policy is not only applicable to victims who are Employees or Board Members.  It is against this Policy 
for an Employee or Board Member, in the performance of his/her duties for the LABF, to harass a member 
of  the  public,  a  third‐party  vendor,  or  an  LABF  member.    In  addition,  Employees  and  Board  Members 
should report any incident(s) where a third party such as a vendor or an LABF member has engaged in any 
type of harassment as part of a working relationship.   
Responsibility and Reporting  
All Employees, particularly Managers, and Board Members have a responsibility for keeping the work 
environment free from harassment. Any Employee or Board Member who becomes aware of an incident 
of harassment, whether  by witnessing  the incident or via a second‐hand account from the victim,  the 
accused or an actual witness, must report the incident to a Manager, the Executive Director or any Board 
Member.  While the LABF encourages Employees and Board Members who are victims of harassment to 
communicate  directly  with  the  alleged  harasser  and  make  it  clear  that  the  harasser's  behavior  is 
unacceptable, offensive or inappropriate, doing so is not required. It is essential, however, that Employees 
and  Board  Members  notify  a  Manager,  the  Executive  Director,  any  Board  Member  or  any  person  in  a 
leadership role with LABF even if not sure the offending behavior is considered harassment.  Any incidents 
of  harassment  must  be  reported  immediately  or  as  soon  as  reasonably  practicable  under  the 
circumstances. 
In addition to reporting incidents of alleged harassment to a Manager, the Executive Director or any 
Board Member, you may also report alleged harassment to the Illinois Inspector General’s office.  
You may make a complaint in several ways: 




Complete a complaint form, which you can obtain on the Inspector General’s website or in the 
reception area of the Illinois Attorney General's Office; 
Call the Inspector General's Hotline at (888) 814‐4646; 
E‐mail the Inspector General's Office at ethics@atg.state.il.us. 

You also may file a charge alleging sexual or other unlawful harassment with the Illinois Department of 
Human  Rights  (the  “IDHR”).    To  file  a  charge  with  the  IDHR,  submit  a  completed  Employment 
Complainant Information Sheet (CIS) either in person or by mail.  If your allegations are covered under the 
Illinois  Human  Rights  Act,  a  charge  will  be  drafted  for  your  signature.   A  charge  of  employment 
discrimination must be filed within 180 days of the alleged discrimination. For further information, contact 
the IDHR directly at 100 West Randolph Street 10th Floor Intake Unit Chicago, IL 60601 or call: 
 

 



(312) 814‐6200 , (866) 740‐3953 (TTY)  
(312) 814‐1436 (FAX ‐ Administration) 
(312) 814‐6251 (FAX ‐ Charge Processing)  

LABF Corrective Action  
All complaints shall be treated with the utmost seriousness and discretion. Upon receipt of the complaint 
or in circumstances where the LABF becomes aware of alleged offending conduct, the LABF will conduct 
a prompt, thorough, and impartial investigation concerning any alleged offending conduct. All Employees 
and Board Members must fully cooperate in any LABF internal investigation.  Upon determination of said 
investigation,  the  LABF  will  disclose  the  results  to  the  complainant  and  the  alleged  offender.    If  the 
investigation leads to a determination that an individual engaged in conduct in violation of the Policy, 
appropriate corrective action will be taken promptly, including the possible removal or termination of the 
offending party.  The LABF may impose disciplinary actions for inappropriate conduct that comes to the 
LABF’s attention, without regard to whether the conduct constitutes a violation of law.   
Retaliation Prohibited 
The LABF will not tolerate adverse treatment of or retaliation against any Employee or Board Member 
because  he  or  she  reports  harassment  or  discrimination,  or  provides  information  related  to  such 
complaints.  As  this  Policy  strictly  prohibits  retaliation  of  any  form  against  anyone  who  complains  of 
alleged violations of this Policy, the prohibition against retaliation also applies to any Employee or Board 
Member involved in or cooperating with any investigation of alleged offending conduct under this Policy. 
Thus, Board Members, the Executive Director and Managers are prohibited from making any personnel 
decision or taking any other adverse action against any Employee or Board Member because the he or 
she complained or cooperated in good faith with an investigation of alleged conduct prohibited by this 
Policy. Any acts of retaliation will be considered a violation of this Policy, and corrective action will be 
taken promptly, up to and including possible removal or termination of any individual who engages in 
retaliation of any form.  In addition, retaliation for making a good faith report or complaint of sexual or 
other unlawful harassment may violate the Illinois Human Rights Act, the State Officials and Employee 
Ethics Act and the Illinois Whistleblower Act, each of which provide remedies for individuals who suffer 
retaliation. 
False and Frivolous Complaints 
False and frivolous charges refer to cases where the accuser is using a harassment complaint to accomplish 
some end other than stopping harassment. It does not refer to charges made in good faith which cannot 
be proven. Given the seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false and frivolous charge is a 
severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action, up to and including removal or termination of 
the offending party. 

Note: Defined terms within this Policy shall have the same meaning as in LABF’s Employee Handbook.

Adopted and Effective Date: 12/19/2017
Amended: 9/18/2018 

 An Insurance Proposal Exclusively for:

Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity
and Benefit Fund of Chicago

Fiduciary Liability Insurance Coverage Summary:
2018 Presentation

Presented: September, 2018

Presented by:
Craig Goesel
Senior Vice President

Clayton Casale
Account Manager

This proposal is prepared for the confidential use of our clients. All rights reserved. No part of this proposal may be
reproduced in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of Mesirow Insurance Services Inc.

Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc.,
an Alliant-owned company

 Executive Summary
Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. appreciates the
opportunity to present our Management Liability
insurance capabilities to Laborer’s & Retirement
Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of
Chicago.

We author articles on management liability and the
exposures faced by the public sector, we continually
keep abreast of public pension issues and consult
with our clients on those issues as it relates to
insurance exposures and risk management and
finally, we are regular speakers at conferences
regarding risk management for pension fund trustees
for both NASRA and NCPERS.

Alliant’s experience with large public entity
exposures and the development of group purchase
programs dates back to 1977 when our public entity
division was established. Over the past 40 years we
have become a nationally recognized leader in this
specialized market sector.

Below is a limited list of retirement system clients,
demonstrating our experience:

As we developed a variety of programs for the
public sector we knew that our model and concept
could be duplicated nationally for management
liability coverage of retirement systems.







As a result, we created the first ever fiduciary and
management liability program in the country
designed to allow systems to band together and drive
down the insurance marketplace in addition to
leveraging broader coverage than what typically can
be obtained as a standalone entity.



Our strategic alliance with both NASRA and
NCPERS allow their members to access our
exclusive program; resulting in significant savings to
some of the largest systems in the country.












We understand the complexity of retirement
exposures and are leading experts in designing
coverage that is specifically tailored for our clients’
needs. We have an entire claims division that
handles claim situations that arise.










State Retirement System of Illinois (SRS)
Judges Retirement System of Illinois (JRS)
State University Retirement System of Illinois
(SURS)
California PERS (CalPERS)
The Chicago Municipal, Laborers, Policemen &
Firemen Annuity and Benefit Funds (Four
different fund clients)
Illinois State Board of Investments (ISBI)
State of Kentucky TRS
State of South Carolina PERS & Deferred Comp
Plan
Orange County ERS
Contra Costa County ERS
Missouri Department of Transportation and
Patrol ERS
Napa County Deferred Comp Plan
Fresno County ERS
Merced County ERS & Deferred Comp Plan
Imperial County ERS
Mendocino County ERS
Sacramento County Benefit Plans
San Bernardino County ERS
Santa Barbara County ERS
Sonoma County ERS

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
1

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Why Alliant Insurance Services


We are an employee-owned insurance broker,
employing over 2,800 employees among our
affiliates



Alliant Insurance Services is an independent,
full-service insurance broker (placing
Fiduciary Liability Insurance Coverage
Summary, Property, Casualty, Life & Health
insurance programs)



We have direct access to all of the major
players in the Public Pension insurance
marketplace. We do not utilize costly
wholesalers to place this business



We have a Practice Group dedicated to
organized labor (including multi-employer,
Taft-Hartley and public pension clients)



Our experienced staff of professionals consists
of former underwriters who can better tailor
products to meet the evolving needs of Trustees





Our team leader, Craig Goesel, has over >20
years of experience in underwriting and
placing Management Liability insurance for
clients



We partner with state and national agencies
and associations - including NASRA, IPPFA,
IPPAC, MAPERS and TEXPERS - to help
Trustees better understand their liability,
insurance options and how to reduce their
exposures. Alliant is a CorPERS member of
the National Conference on Public Employee
Retirement Systems (NCPERS)



We act as a procurement agency for clients,
ensuring that they receive the most
comprehensive and favorably priced program
through a competitive bid process



We provide helpful guidance on coverage
provisions, market selection and limits analysis
in a clear, easy to understand, proposal
presentation



We have a network of positive relationships in
the management liability space (clients,
attorneys, consultants, etc.) that would provide
favorable references



Alliant Insurance Services has challenged a
number of carriers (including ULLICO, Euclid,
AIG, and Chubb) in coverage development to
ensure the most comprehensive coverage meets
the unique needs of our clients



We have a dedicated claim advocacy team,
and have been successful in reversing denials
of coverage on behalf of our Taft-Hartley and
Public Pension clients

We are an industry expert; with over 500
clients and $5,000,000 premium placed
nationally, we are the largest broker in the
nation for Public Pension clients

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
2

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Procurement Request for Fiduciary Liability Insurance
Re: Procurement Request: Fiduciary Liability Insurance: Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and
Benefit Fund of Chicago
Dear Underwriter:
Alliant Insurance Services, Inc., an Alliant-owned company, LLC requests the participation of your firm in the
procurement of Fiduciary Liability Insurance for Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit
Fund of Chicago. Alliant Insurance Services, Inc., an Alliant-owned company, LLC will present terms on to the
Board of Trustees in July. As such, I am looking for your responses early August so we can properly draft the
presentation and summarize the results in writing prior to the meeting.
Alliant Insurance Services, Inc., an Alliant-owned company, LLC requires our carriers to be admitted to offer this
insurance coverage within the State of Illinois and to hold an AM Best's Rating of at least {A- (VII)}. As such,
we have only provided this submission to those carriers that currently hold these designations. If your firm's
designations fall below these thresholds during the submission process, please immediately alert Alliant Insurance
Services, Inc., an Alliant-owned company, LLC.
The Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago currently purchases a
Fiduciary Liability program:
I attach the following documents for your consideration:




Most recent executive summary
Most recent investment performance report / financial statement
Application

Alliant Insurance Services, Inc., an Alliant-owned company, LLC is not utilizing a wholesaler, procurement firm,
mid-broker or other intermediary to secure these renewal terms. As such, we request that you provide only to
MIS the renewal terms offered and no compensation is due to other such parties.
I would be happy to discuss this submission further. Please let me know if you have any questions or concerns.
Thank You & Best Regards,
Craig Goesel
Senior Vice President
v 312.595.8146
e cgoesel@alliant.com

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
4

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Procurement Request: Carrier Responses
Insurance Company

AM Best’s
Rating

Carrier Response

A+ (XV)

Not willing to quote primary layer due to class of
business (IL-based and an affiliate of the public pension
industry)
Would be willing to quote excess layers in the future if
that is an opportunity

Axis Insurance Co.

A+ (XV)

Not willing to quote primary layer due to class of
business (IL-based and an affiliate of the public pension
industry)
Would be willing to quote excess layers in the future if
that is an opportunity

AIG Insurance Group

A (XV)

Quoted however could not compete with EUCLID /
ULLICO

Beazley Insurance Co.

A++ (XV)

Quoted the Cyber Liability (declined the Fiduciary)

CNA Insurance Co.

A (XV)

Not willing to quote due to class of business (IL-based
and an affiliate of the public pension industry)

Euclid/Hudson Insurance Co.

A (XV)

Quoted primary & excess program

Hartford Insurance Co.

A+ (XV)

Not willing to quote due to class of business (IL-based
and an affiliate of the public pension industry)

Houston Casualty Insurance Co.

A+ (XV)

Not willing to quote due to class of business (IL-based
and an affiliate of the public pension industry)

RLI Insurance Co.

A+ (XV)

Not willing to quote due to class of business (IL-based
and an affiliate of the public pension industry)

Travelers Insurance Co.

A++ (XV)

Not willing to quote due to class of business (IL-based
and an affiliate of the public pension industry)

Ullico/Markel Ins Co.

A (XIV)

Quoted primary & excess program

XL Specialty Insurance Co.

A (XV)

Not willing to quote due to class of business (IL-based
and an affiliate of the public pension industry)

Arch Insurance Co.

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
5

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Important Policy Provisions:
Coverage Provision


ULLICO

Euclid

Name insured to include
past/present/future Trustees &
employees of the Fund

Yes

Yes



Claims Made Policy

Yes

Yes



Duty to Defend

Optional (Responsibility of
Defense is decided by the
Insured)

Optional (Responsibility of
Defense is decided by the
Insured)



Coverage for Spouses, Estates, Heirs,
Legal Representatives or Assigns of an
Insured Person

Yes

Yes

Provides coverage for past acts (provided
the policy will not respond to previously
Yes
known incidents that could reasonably
give rise to a claim)

Yes



Trustee Expense Coverage

Yes ($1,000,000)

Yes ($1,000,000)



Client’s Choice of Counsel

Yes

Yes



Non-Cancellable by carrier (except for
non-payment of premium)

Yes

Yes



HIPAA fines & penalties

Yes ($10,000,000)

Yes ($1,500,000)



Punitive Damages

Where Insurable Under Law

Where Insurable Under Law



Severability (Exclusions and
Application)

Yes

Yes



Consent to Settle Clause

Removed

Removed



Waiver of Recourse

Yes (a $25 fee-per-trustee does
NOT need to be collected)



Employment Practices Liability



Cyber Liability

Yes (a $25 fee-per-trustee does
NOT need to be collected)
Yes ($1,000,000 limit; $50K
retention)
Yes ($1,000,000 limit; $25K
retention)



Yes ($100,000 Limit)
Yes ($100,000 Limit)

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
6

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation





Coverage Provision (continued)
Claim expenses included within the
limit of liability (these expenses may
include outside counsel, forensic
accountants, actuaries, expert witnesses,
etc.)
Include “Waive statutory
indemnification provision” language

ULLICO

EUCLID

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Important Exclusions
Coverage Exclusion

ULLICO
Excluded (although defense for
allegations of such will be
defended until the act is finally
adjudicated)
Excluded (although defense for
allegations of such will be
defended until the act is finally
adjudicated)

Euclid
Excluded (although defense for
allegations of such will be
defended until the act is finally
adjudicated)
Excluded (although defense for
allegations of such will be
defended until the act is finally
adjudicated)



Personal Profit/ Illegal Remuneration



Criminal/Fraudulent Acts/Willful violation
of any law



Bodily Injury, Personal Injury and Property
Damage

Excluded

Excluded



Violations of any Workers Compensation,
Unemployment Insurance, Social Security
or similar Disability Benefits Law

Excluded

Excluded



A demand, suit or other proceeding rendered
against the Insured prior to the first date of
inception of coverage

Excluded (multiple allegations
that stem from a single
wrongful act will be treated as
one claim under this policy,
subject to the aggregate limit
of liability)

Excluded (multiple allegations
that stem from a single
wrongful act will be treated as
one claim under this policy,
subject to the aggregate limit
of liability)



Pollution or Pollutants

Excluded

Excluded



Contractual Liability of Others (other than
contractual liability established by the
Employee Benefit Plan)

Excluded

Excluded

Benefits Due

Excluded (provided this
exclusion will allow coverage
for claims expenses and the
portion of the claim that may
become a personal obligation
of an Insured Person)

Excluded (provided this
exclusion will allow coverage
for claims expenses and the
portion of the claim that may
become a personal obligation
of an Insured Person)





Specific debt instruments or
investments

Not Excluded

Not Excluded

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
7

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Program Options
Expiring

Primary Insurance Carrier /
Excess Insurance Carrier

Markel American Ins.
Co./Hudson Ins. Co.
(Beazley for Cyber)

Option 1

Option 2

Markel American Ins.
Co./Hudson Ins. Co.
(Beazley for Cyber)

Markel American Ins.
Co./Hudson Ins. Co.
(Beazley for Cyber)

Fiduciary Limit
Cyber Limit




$15,000,000
$1,000,000




$15,000,000
$1,000,000




$15,000,000
$2,000,000

Retention / Deductible




$50,000
$25,000




$50,000
$25,000




$50,000
$25,000




Annual Premium

$195,430

$201,127

$206,928

Notes: 1) Annual aggregate limit of liability for all trustees; 2) Retention/deductible applies to each
claim; 3) Annual premium change of 3% for 2018-2019 policy term.

The Following Information Required to issue policies:
1. Completed, signed and dated application

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
8

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Benchmarking:
Peer Group: Public Pension Funds (including state & municipal); between $500M and $2.5B in Assets;
Fiduciary Liability Insurance; peer group size = 162
Limit Profile:
 50% of peers purchase limits greater than $10M




26% of peers purchase limits >$5M up to and including $10M
24% of peers purchase limits lower than $5M

Limit Analysis:
As the largest provider of fiduciary liability insurance to public pension funds, we conducted an analysis
of the buying habits of other funds of Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit
Fund of Chicago’s size & scope. The benchmarking would suggest $15M is an adequate limit for the
trustees.

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
9

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Waiver of Recourse
With the enactment of ERISA in 1974, Trustees of employee benefit plans became personally liable for their acts
on behalf of the participants of those plans. Fiduciary Liability Policies became very popular, but ERISA only
allowed the Trust Funds themselves to purchase insurance to protect the funds - not the respective trustees.
Therefore, a nominal fee was charged directly to the Trustees as a way to circumvent this provision.
Although Public Pension Funds are not subject to ERISA law, the various state pension codes often follow in the
“spirit of ERISA”. In addition, as the Fiduciary Liability policies were originally drafted to protect ERISA plans,
the waiver provision followed across Non-ERISA plans.
With that said, we have been successful in petitioning the carriers to waive their recourse to the trustees without
having to charge, unless there is a requirement within the respective governing code. As Public Pension Codes
typically have no such provision, we no longer need to charge the trustees for the waiver of recourse. The trustees
still retain the same full coverage as provided in the past.

Compensation
Alliant Insurance Services, LLC is compensated for our risk management, insurance placement, marketing, policy
issuance and other insurance services for this insurance program using a commission based compensation plan.
As the different carriers provide distinct commission schedules, we have outlined the standard commission
schedules from carriers that provide this insurance coverage. However, Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. has
agreed to reduce our compensation by 10% for the benefit of combined marketing of the Chicago Public Pension
Funds programs. Please note that commissions paid do not influence our recommendations for coverage
placements:
Insurance Company













Standard Commission % Paid

Arch ......................................................................................................................................................... 15%
Axis ......................................................................................................................................................... 15%
AIG .......................................................................................................................................................... 15%
Chubb ...................................................................................................................................................... 15%
C/N/A ................................................................................................................................................... 12.5%
Euclid....................................................................................................................................................... 17%
Hartford ................................................................................................................................................... 15%
Houston Casualty Company .................................................................................................................... 15%
RLI .......................................................................................................................................................... 15%
Travelers .................................................................................................................................................. 15%
ULLICO .................................................................................................................................................. 15%
XL......................................................................................................................................................... 12.5%

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
10

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Fiduciary Liability Insurance
for Public Pension Funds
Trustees and staff members of governmental,
municipal and quasi-governmental pension plans
face increased exposure in their fiduciary roles.
Allegations of breaches of duty are costly to defend,
and may result in personal liability of the trustees.
Alliant Insurance Services experts provide the
following summary of typical fiduciary liabilities,
and offer solutions to lessen your fiduciary exposure.

INSURANCE AUTHORIZATION &
INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS
Each board and pension fund is often authorized to
purchase insurance to protect against liability of
trustees, staff and employees which may arise as a
result of claims.
State Pension Codes generally permit, but do not
guarantee, the indemnification of trustees and
employees of the Fund – however, this
indemnification is provided for allegations other
than willful misconduct or gross negligence
(properly structured insurance programs will not
exclude allegations of willful misconduct or gross
negligence).

PENSION CODE STANDARDS & FIDUCIARY
DUTIES
The fiduciary duties under most State Pension Codes
mirror standards similar to those outlined in ERISA.
These duties include acting solely in the interest of
the participants & beneficiaries, adhering to the socalled “prudent investor” standard and other
provisions of the State Pension Code.

IN SUMMARY
ENFORCING PROVISIONS & LIMITATIONS
ON LIABILITY

State Pension Codes require fiduciaries to adhere to
many of the same standards outlined in ERISA.
Breaches of established fiduciary duties may
translate into personal liability for the trustees of
public pension funds. These same Pension Codes
allow for the purchase of insurance to protect the
plan, the trustees and the staff from such liability.

State Pension Codes, and ERISA law, typically
provide that participants, beneficiaries, fiduciaries
and/or the Attorney General may bring suits to
enforce fiduciary duties and other provisions of the
respective Pension Code.
These Pension Codes often do not provide
limitations, or at least not complete limitations, on
liability. They also make clear that litigation against
fiduciaries is permissible. Fiduciaries that breach
their duty can be held personally liable to make good
to such Fund any losses resulting from such breach.

Our professionals at Alliant Insurance Services, Inc.
are experienced in prudently structuring
comprehensive fiduciary liability insurance
programs to provide trustees with added protection
in their roles as fiduciaries of public pension funds.

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
11

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Fiduciary Liability Insurance for Public Pension Fund (cont.)
NAMED INSURED





LOSSES COVERED INCLUDE

The Pension Fund and/or Retirement Fund
Past, present and futures trustees, directors
& officers (including spouses and legal
estate).
Past, present and futures employees, staff,
plan administrator (including spouses and
legal estate).






OTHER POLICY PROVISIONS

INSURED WRONGFUL ACTS






Breach of Fiduciary duties; violation of the
responsibilities, obligations or duties
imposed by Municipal, State or similar
Pension Code
Any act error of omission in the
performance of counseling participants,
providing interpretations, handling records
or effecting enrollment.







Annual policy period; annual aggregate
limits of liability; higher limits available
than those presented
Claims-Made coverage (provides coverage
for claims arising from prior acts)
Defense costs within the annual limit

NOTABLE EXCLUSIONS


COVERAGE EXTENDS TO CLAIMS


Damages; judgments; settlements; pre- &
post- judgment interest
Defense expense
Civil penalties associated with CAP,
HIPPA, 502l or 502i

Written demand for monetary and injunctive
relief
Criminal or civil proceedings commenced
by service of complaint, return of an
indictment and/or agency or regulatory
proceeding

Coverage does not extend to: outside service
vendors; benefits due the participants;
fraudulent acts or illegal personal profit;
failure to collect contributions; bodily or
property damage; failing to comply with
Workers Comp, unemployment, Social
Security.

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
12

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Public Act 97-0651 (House Bill 3813):
We reference the below as an example of changing legislation that can affect the responsibilities, and therefore
liabilities, of Trustees. The below is an amendment to the responsibilities imposed upon fiduciaries by the IL
State Pension Code. As the Fiduciary Liability policy is intended to cover board members (and employees) for
breaches of these stated responsibilities, defense coverage would be provided for alleged breaches of such
duties/responsibilities.
Public Act 97-0651 Further amends the Illinois Pension Code. Provides that any reasonable suspicion by any
appointed board member of a retirement system created under the Code of a false statement/record being
submitted or permitted by a person under the Code shall be immediately referred to the board of trustees or the
State's Attorney of the jurisdiction where the alleged fraudulent activity occurred. The board of trustees of this
retirement system or shall immediately notify the State's Attorney of the jurisdiction where any alleged fraudulent
activity occurred for investigation

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
13

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Claim Reporting
The ramification of the current insurance market
condition from the claims prospective is that
insurance carriers are much stricter in claims being
reported promptly. Therefore, we recommend all of
our clients inform us (or your appropriate carrier) as
soon as possible when first made aware of an
incident, accident, lawsuit, or circumstance which
could give rise to a claim.

These comprehensive forms along with Claim
Handling Tips and reporting instructions for your
insurer’s claims departments can be accessed by
visiting our website:
http://www.alliant.com/property/claimreporting/defa
ult.jsp
If you have difficulty reporting any claim, you can
also contact our claim department who will assist in
filing the matter with the insurance company. You
may call, fax or email your claim materials to our
office:

What could happen if you delay reporting a new
claim?



The carrier could reserve rights against you
and offer less than 100% of what is due.
The claim could be denied in its entirety.

Phone: 312.595.6200 (avalable 24/7)
Fax: 312.595.6506
Email: claimsreporting@alliant.com

Prompt claim reporting begins with the immediate
investigation into the facts and circumstances of an
accident, work related injury or allegation. Every
such incident, no matter how minor, should be
investigated as soon as possible. In order to assist
you in preparing and reporting claims, Alliant
Insurance Services maintains a directory of accident
investigation forms and contact numbers for your
insurers claim departments.

All coverages and exclusions are not included on this page. Please refer to policy for all applicable terms and conditions. Additional limits and/or changes
may be available after review and acceptance by insurer.
14

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Important Disclosures
Our proposal is an outline of the coverage offered by the insurers, based on the information provided by your
company – including but not limited to the insurance Application, which we have relied upon in preparing this
proposal. If changes need to be made, please notify our office immediately. All changes are subject to review
and acceptance by the insurance company. This proposal does not constitute a contract and does not include all
the terms, coverage, exclusions, limitations, or conditions of the actual contract language. You must read the
policies for those details. For your reference, policy forms will be made available upon request.
In addition to fees, commissions or other compensation retained by Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. it is
understood that in some circumstances other parties necessary to arrange placement of coverage may earn usual
and customary commissions and/or fees in the course of providing insurance products. In addition, as is a
common practice in the industry, Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. benefits from programs implemented by
certain insurers, wholesale brokers (property & casualty) and administrators (benefits) providing for
compensation, in addition to commissions and fees, to be paid to Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. based upon
differing factors. This additional compensation may include non-cash awards and benefits. The insurance you
purchase through Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. may be issued by an insurer, wholesale broker (property &
casualty) or administrator (benefits) who has such a program. Further, Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. may
receive fees from premium finance transactions (property & casualty). Additionally, Alliant Insurance Services,
Inc. may share non-identifiable commercial insurance program data with third-parties for benchmarking purposes
(property & casualty). Should you have specific questions concerning Alliant Insurance Services, Inc.’
compensation or data sharing, please contact your Alliant Insurance Services, Inc. executive.

15

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

Best’s Insurance Reports
Best’s Insurance Reports, published annually by A. M. Best Company, Inc., presents comprehensive reports on
the financial position, history, and transactions of insurance companies operating in the United States and Canada.
Companies licensed to do business in the United States are assigned a Best’s Rating which attempts to measure
the comparative position of the company or association against industry averages.
A Best’s Financial Strength Rating (FSR) is an opinion of an insurer’s ability to meet its obligations to
policyholders. The Best’s Financial Strength Rating is based on analysis, which gives consideration to a number
of factors of varying importance. While the analysis is believed to be reliable, we cannot guarantee the accuracy
of the rating or the financial stability of the insurance company.
A copy of the Best’s Insurance Report on the insurance companies quoted is available upon request.
BEST’S RATINGS











Description
Superior
Excellent
Good
Fair
Marginal
Weak
Poor
Under Regulatory Supervision
In Liquidation
Rating Suspended

A++, A+
A, AB++, B+
B, BC++, C+
C, CD
E
F
S

16

 Laborer’s & Retirement Board Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago
Fiduciary Liability: 2018 Presentation

FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING
Description

















Class I
Class II
Class III
Class IV
Class V
Class VI
Class VII
Class VIII
Class IX
Class X
Class XI
Class XII
Class XIII
Class XIV
Class XV

$
0
1,000,000
2,000,000
5,000,000
10,000,000
25,000,000
50,000,000
100,000,000
250,000,000
500,000,000
750,000,000
1,000,000,000
1,250,000,000
1,500,000,000
2,000,000,000

to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to

$

1,000,000
2,000,000
5,000,000
10,000,000
25,000,000
50,000,000
100,000,000
250,000,000
500,000,000
750,000,000
1,000,000,000
1,250,000,000
1,500,000,000
2,000,000,000
or more

RATING MODIFIER
Modifier

Descriptor



u

Under Review



pd

Public Data



s

Syndicate

Definition

A modifier that generally is event-driven (positive, negative or
developing) and is assigned to a company whose Best’s rating
opinion is under review and may be subject to change in the nearterm, generally defined as six months.
Assigned to insurers that do not subscribe to Best’s interactive rating
process. Best’s “pd” Ratings reflect qualitative and quantitative
analyses using public data and information.
Assigned to syndicates operating at Lloyd’s.

Best’s Ratings for proposed companies at time of presentation are indicated on each page for each individual
coverage.

CA License No. 0803093
Insurance services offered through Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc.
© 2016 Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc., an Alliant-owned company.
All rights reserved.

17

 