BOARD OF ETHICS

OPEN SESSION MINUTES

FEBRUARY 22, 2019, 12:23 P.M.
740 North Sedgwick, Suite 500

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT
William F. Conlon, Chair
Zaid Abdul-Aleem
Dr. Daisy S. Lezama
Hon. Barbara McDonald

STAFF PRESENT
Steven I. Berlin, Executive Director
Lisa S. Eilers, Deputy Director
Richard Superfine, Legal Counsel
Ana Collazo, Attorney/Investigator
Edward Primer, Program Director
Paully Casillas, Staff Administrator

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT
Nancy C. Andrade
Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson
David L. Daskal
The board welcomed its new member, the Honorable Barbara A. McDonald.

I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal, absent) to
approve the open session minutes of the Board’s meeting of January 18, 2019.

II.

CHAIR’S REPORT
The Chair reported that he and the staff have been following the various proposals to amend the
Governmental Ethics Ordinance carefully, and that, in the next few months, the Board will put forth
its own carefully tailored suggestions for amendments. The Board is the only agency in City
government with the word “ethics” in it, and it is incumbent on the agency to suggest important
changes that do not make it into reforms already enacted by City Council. To that end, the Chair
asked staff to research: (i) whether the Board could and should hold a public session in which it
invites thoughtful commentary from members of the public and media; (ii) how many other
jurisdictions have “aspirational codes of conduct,” because this part of the Ordinance appears to
weaken governmental ethical standards in Chicago; and (iii) The status under the Governmental
Ethics Ordinance of “golden parachute” contracts with agency heads who are, admittedly, not part
of City government but whose required tax revenues affect city residents, thereby purporting to
bind the next Mayor to such contracts.

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 2
III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT
A.

New Board Member
On behalf of the staff, it is my honor and privilege to welcome to the Board our newest
member, the Honorable Barbara McDonald. Judge McDonald is a graduate of the University
of Dayton and received her law degree from the University of Notre Dame Law School. She
served as a Circuit Judge for the Circuit Court of Cook County from 1996 to 2012. Prior to
that, she served as Chief Assistant Corporation Counsel in the City’s Law Department, Torts
Division, and began her legal career with the Chicago firm of Lord, Bissell and Brook. She
was confirmed by the City Council at its January 2019 meeting.

B.

Education
Classes and Other Presentations
Since the Board’s last regularly scheduled meeting, 59 employees attended classes here on
January 29 and February 7 and 19. There are 75 scheduled for classes here on February 26,
March 7, and 19.
All Board classes cover sexual harassment.
On February 20, staff made a 30 minute presentation to all incoming SSA (Special Service
Area) Commissioners and staff of various SSA Service Providers, at the request of the
Department of Planning & Development.
On March 6, I will be a guest speaker at a class on Public Corruption at the University of
Chicago’s Law School, at the request of its instructor, Sharon Fairley.
On March 12, I will make a 30 minute presentation to graduate students from the DePaul
School of Public Health on ethics in organizations and government agencies.
On March 21, we will present a class for the alderman and staff of the 38th Ward.
On-line Training
For appointed officials
We are finalizing a PowerPoint for all appointed officials, including members of this
Board. Currently the sexual harassment section is being reviewed by the Department of
Human Resources, which is revising the City’s EEO Policy, and may include appointed
officials within its ambit. When the program is completed, we will email it to all
appointed officials, and have them complete it, with the assistance of the Office of
Legislative Counsel and Government Affairs (which is responsible for coordinating the
appointments of all Mayoral appointees/appointed officials). An Ordinance was
submitted to City Council at our request, and at the request of the Mayor’s Office, that
would provide that all appointed officials are subject to the Ordinance’s prohibition
against sexual harassment. The proposed amendment is attached.

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 3
For lobbyists
While the 2017-2018 lobbyist training cycle was completed on July 1, 2018, we are
working on the 2018-2019 training program, which will be posted by months end. I’m
pleased to report that several lobbyists requested and were provided with soft copies of
last year’s training, because they said it was so helpful.
C.

City Council Educational Initiative/Handbook
In conjunction with the Law and Finance Departments, Inspector General (“IG”), and
members and staff of the City Council, including representatives from its various
caucuses, the Board met January 16 and February 27, March 27, April 16, and May 21,
and attended briefings with aldermen on December 4 to finalize a “handbook” that will
address and provide guidance on certain issues common to aldermen and their staff;
these include some ethics ordinance issues. The Board, Law Department, and IG are
acting under the guidance of the City Council on this project, in an effort to identify and
promote various best practices. The Board submitted its extensive comments and
entries, covering topics from political activity to social media to recusals.
We submitted brief revisions to the Handbook on February 19.

D.

Amendments to the Ordinance
I have suggested and had a chance to review and share with legal staff and the Chair the
various drafts of the ethics reform package that the Mayor submitted to City Council on
January 23 as they pertain to the Ordinance. We will discuss this, time permitting, in
Executive Session. In addition, this is an opportunity for the Board to propose additional
reforms and amendments to the Ordinance.
I will brief aldermen on the package on February 28, as well as testify at the next meeting of
the City Council’s Committee on Committees, Rules and Ethics on March 12.

E.

Council on Governmental Ethics Laws (“COGEL”)
COGEL’s 2019 annual conference will be here in Chicago, at the Michigan Avenue Marriott in
early December of this year. We will work closely with the current and next Mayor’s Office,
City Council, and Budget Office to ensure a successful conference. We expect about 450
ethics, campaign financing, lobbying, freedom of information, and election administration
officials from across the U.S. and Canada to attend, plus private practitioners and academics.
We are serving on the conference’s program committee, and will be reaching out to various
elected and appointed officials, attorneys, public figures, and media personnel to serve on
panel discussions or otherwise contribute to the Conference. We will co-host the
Conference with our colleagues at the Cook County Board of Ethics, Chicago Board of
Election Commissioners, Illinois State Board of Elections, and Illinois State Executive Ethics
Commission, as well as possibly other local agencies involved in ethics or freedom of
information administration.

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 4
As President-elect of COGEL, I also serve on the Program and Host committees, and
continue to Chair the Publications committee. The 2019 Conference is an opportunity to
showcase our agency, our mission, and ethics, campaign financing, lobbying, and election
administration at the City, County, and State levels generally. And I am hoping that our
Board members will lend support to make the 41st Conference nonpareil.
On February 7, I sent an email to 17 media and good government personnel, soliciting ideas
for breakout sessions. I received one serious response, from Madeleine Doubek, Executive
Director of Change Illinois, a good government group, and have been in touch with Alisa
Kaplan, Head of Outreach at Reform Illinois, another good government group, and have
several outstanding ideas from them [unfortunately, but inevitably, one media person
tweeted, snarkily, “Seriously: Chicago is hosting the 41st Annual COGEL Conference”]. In
fact, hosting this Conference is a great honor, and the work of COGEL and its members is
serious, and this conference itself is an outstanding international event.
F.

Executive Editorship – Public Integrity/Guardian Issue
I am a member of the Executive Editorial Board of the journal Public Integrity, which is
affiliated with the American Society for Public Administration. It is published by Taylor &
Francis six (6) times a year. We are in the midst of a joint project between this journal and
the COGEL Guardian to bridge gaps between academics and practitioners. The first edition
of the 2019 COGEL Guardian will be published around April 15, 2019.

G.

Sister Agency Ethics Officers
We met on December 18 with our ethics counterparts at other local governmental agencies:
the Cook County Board of Ethics and the Ethics Officers from the Chicago Public Schools,
City Colleges of Chicago, and Chicago Housing Authority. We will meet next on March 21.

H.

2019 Statements of Financial Interests
On or before March 1, notices to about 3,950 City employees and officials will be sent via
email and U.S. first class mail advising them of the requirement to file 2019 Statements of
Financial Interests before June 1. This will include individuals identified by each Ward or
alderman who fall into the definition in the Ordinance of “City Council employee” even
though they are paid as independent contractors.
Forms are posted on our website as soon as they are processed by staff – our goal is to have
all filed forms posted within 24 hours of when they are filed. Once posted, they reside on
the Board’s website for seven (7) years from the date of filing, after which they are removed
and destroyed, pursuant to the Board’s Document Retention Schedule kept with the Illinois
Secretary of State and Local Records Commission of Cook County.

I.

Candidates’ Statements of Financial Interests
Pursuant to §2-156-150(d)(iii), each person who qualifies as a candidate for elected City
office must file a Statement of Financial Interests with the Board within five (5) days after

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 5
so qualifying. By following media reports – particularly those by thedailyline.com – Board
staff tracks and notifies each candidate in writing of the filing requirement. To date, 182
known qualified candidates (not including incumbents) for the February 2019 Consolidated
Municipal Election have been notified to file, and all have done so.
We post all filed Statements on our website. Two (2) candidates were found in violation of
the Ordinance for failure to file by their deadline, and were fined $250 and $500,
respectively. Their names and violations were posted on our website.
I again want to acknowledge here the fine work of the reporters at thedailyline.com, who
enable us to contact newly declared candidates as they are reported, thereby enabling us to
make candidates’ information publicly available to the electorate.
Note: incumbents also must file, but their forms are posted and searchable through a
different page, and their deadline was before June 1, 2018.
J.

Advisory Opinions
Since the Board’s last meeting on January 18, we have issued 461 informal advisory
opinions – an astoundingly large number. The leading categories were, in descending
order: travel; gifts; City property (including proper website postings or blockings); conflicts
of interest; campaign financing; post-employment; political activity; employment of
relatives/nepotism; and lobbying.
The leading City departments from which requesters came in this period were (in
descending order): City Council; Mayor’s Office; Chicago Police Department; Chicago Public
Library; Cultural Affairs and Special Events; Planning & Development; and Office of
Inspector General.
Informal opinions are not made public but are logged, kept, and used for training and future
advisory purposes. (This is the same practice that occurs with our colleagues at the New
York City Conflicts of Interest Board, who issue roughly the same number of informal
opinions.) They form the basis for much of our annual and periodic educational programs.
Formal opinions are made public, in full text, with names and other identifying information
redacted out.

K.

Waivers
Since July 1, 2013, the Board has had authority to grant waivers from certain provisions in
the Ethics Ordinance. Two (2) have been granted, each involving former City employees; a
third request is on today’s agenda. By law, we must make these waivers public. We added a
new page on our website whereby users can search these waivers.

L.

Summary Index of Formal Advisory Opinions/Text of all Formal Advisory Opinions
Every formal Board opinion issued since 1986 is posted on the Board’s website (902 of
them), redacted in accordance with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions. Redacted
opinions are posted once issued by or reported to the Board. Further, summaries and

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 6
keywords for each of these opinions are available on the Board’s searchable index of
opinions. Only a handful of other ethics agencies have comparable research tools.
We are unaware of jurisdictions that make their informal opinions public—though others
issue them confidentially and enable requesters to rely on them in the event of an
investigation or enforcement.
M.

Summary Index of Board-Initiated Regulatory Actions/Adjudications/pre-2013
Investigations
We post the summary index of all investigations, enforcement and regulatory actions
undertaken by the Board since its inception in 1986 (other than those for violations of filing
or training requirements or campaign financing matters). It includes an ongoing summary
of all regulatory actions the Board undertook without an IG investigation.
The Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties it assesses where
authorized by law to do so. There have been, to date, 116 such matters, but only in those
that occurred after July 1, 2013 can the Board release the names of those found to have
violated the Governmental Ethics Ordinance.
The document makes clear that, despite comments made in the media over the last decade,
the Board has been a robust enforcement agency, hardly a “do-nothing” agency. This
continues through the Board’s ongoing regulatory actions, described above, and with
respect to lobbying and campaign financing, even though the Board no longer has
investigative authority.

N.

Summary Index of Ongoing IG/LIG Investigations/Adjudications
We post and continually update, on our website, an ongoing investigative record showing
the status of every completed investigative report brought to the Board by both the IG (a
total of eight (8) since July 1, 2013) and the former Office of the Legislative Inspector
General (“LIG”), since January 1, 2012, and the status of all 50 petitions to commence
investigations presented to the Board by the LIG. It is updated as appropriate, consistent
with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions.
Whenever the IG presents the Board with a completed ethics investigation in which the IG
believes there have been any violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance, the
procedure that follows is governed by §2-156-385(3) and (4) of the Ordinance: the Board
reviews the IG’s report, recommendations, and the entirety of evidence submitted in its
completed ethics investigation, including a review to ensure that the IG conformed with the
requirement that it complete ethics investigations within two (2) years of commencing
them (unless there is evidence that the subject took affirmative action to conceal evidence
or delay the investigation), and that investigations are commenced within two (2) of the last
alleged act of misconduct.
Then, if the Board finds that the evidence presented warrants a prima facie finding of
probable cause to believe the subject violated the Ordinance, it notifies the subject of the
allegations and affords the subject the opportunity to present written submissions and meet
with the Board, together with an attorney or other representative present. The Ordinance

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 7
provides that this meeting is ex parte – no one from the City’s Law Department or IG is
present. Note that the Board may request clarification from the IG as to any evidence
adduced in its investigation before making a probable cause finding (and indeed has done
so). The Board cannot administer oaths at this meeting, but can and does assess the
subject’s credibility and the validity and weight of any evidence the subject provides.
If the subject is unable to rebut the Board’s prima facie probable cause finding, the Board
may enter into a settlement agreement – all settlement agreements are made public – or the
Board or subject may decide to proceed to a merits hearing that is not open to the public.
That hearing would be held before an administrative law judge (ALJ) appointed by the
Department of Administrative Hearings. The City would be represented by the Law
Department (or a specially hired Assistant Corporation Counsel for that purpose), and the
subject by his or her attorney. At the conclusion of the hearing, the ALJ submits his or her
findings of fact and law to the Board, which can accept or reject them, based solely on the
record of the hearing. The Board will then issue a public opinion in which it finds one or
more violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance (or finds none) and impose
appropriate fines.
This process may seem cumbersome. However, it was added to the Ordinance and became
effective on July 1, 2013, based on specific recommendations of the Mayor’s Ethics Reform
Task Force in Part II of its 2012 Report – the primary purposes being (i): to guarantee due
process for all those investigated by the IG or former LIG; (ii) to ensure that only the Board
of Ethics could make legal determinations as to whether a person investigated by the IG or
LIG violated the Ordinance, given the Board’s extensive jurisprudence and unique expertise
in ethics matters; and (iii) to balance due process for those investigated by the IG with an
accurate and precise adjudication by the Board of Ethics and the public’s right to know of
ethics violations.
On our website, we have a publication that describes this process in detail:
https://www.chicago.gov/content/dam/city/depts/ethics/general/Publications/EnforceProcedures.pd f

One (1) of these eight (8) IG matters remain pending, and in two (2) others, the Board has
commenced enforcement actions against secondary subjects. Specifically:
In Case No. 18039.IG (corresponding to IG Case # 17-0082), the final investigative report
was sent to our office on November 30, 2018. The case involves prohibited gifts offered to a
current and a now-former City employee from a City subcontractor. The case is on today’s
agenda for a finding of probable cause.
In Case No. 18012.IG (corresponding to IG Case #16-0240) the IG presented the Board with
a fifth completed investigation and petition for probable cause in April 2018. At the Board’s
May 2018 meeting, it dismissed one part of the IG’s petition (the part of the case dismissed
by the Board pertained to an alderman’s job interviews with a potential post-City employer
while that potential employer had matters pending, finding that there was no evidence in
the IG’s investigative record to show that the alderman acted on any matters involving the
potential employer and that the employer had no matters pending before the alderman),
but made a prima facie finding of probable cause in the other. The matter involves violations
of the Ordinance’s post-employment provisions by a former alderman (the Ordinance’s
post-employment provisions prohibit former aldermen from engaging in lobbying the City
for one year after leaving office). The Board settled the matter with the former alderman for

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 8
a $5,000 fine. At its January 2019 meeting, the Board also found probable cause to conclude
that the former alderman’s employer violated the Ordinance by employing a lobbyist who
failed to register as required by the Ordinance. The employer is subject to a fine between
$500-$2,000. That part of the case remains pending.
In Case No. 18023.IG (corresponding to IG Case #17-0148), the IG presented its completed
investigative report and corroborating evidence on June 20, 2018. The case involves a nowformer employee who, the IG concluded (and identified as a former Water Management
employee), violated the Ordinance by accepting gifts to a Cubs’ post-season game from a
business over which he had official authority, in excess of the Ordinance’s $50 per
source/per year limit, failed to report the gift on his annual Statement of Financial Interests,
and provided advice or assistance on matters concerning City business that were not wholly
unrelated to his City job. The Board made a prima facie probable cause finding at its July
2018 meeting, and settled the matter with the former employee for a $500 fine. At its
January 2019 meeting, the Board found that there is probable cause to conclude that the
gift-giver violated the Ordinance by giving the former employee a prohibited gift. The giftgiver is subject to a fine between $1,001-$5,000.
Please note finally that, in all matters adjudicated or settled on or after July 1, 2013, the
Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties assessed, or a complete copy of
the settlement agreement.
O.

Disclosures of Past Violations
July 2013 amendments to the Ordinance provide that, when a person seeks advice from the
Board about past conduct, and discloses to the Board facts leading it to conclude that he or
she committed a past violation of the Ordinance, the Board must determine whether that
violation was minor or non-minor. If it was minor, the Board, by law, sends the person a
confidential letter of admonition. If it was non-minor, then, under current law, the person is
advised that he or she may self-report to the IG or, if he or she fails to do so within two (2)
weeks, the Board must make that report.
Since the time this provision (§2-156-070(b)) became effective on July 1, 2013, the Board
has advised three (3) aldermen, two (2) aldermanic staffers, one (1) mid-level City
employee in an operating department, one (1) department head and one (1) former
department head that their past conduct violated the Ordinance. In three (3) of these cases,
one (1) involving an alderman, the second an aldermanic staffer, and the third a former
department head, the Board concluded that the apparent violations were not minor or
technical, and the aldermen and aldermanic staff self-reported to the former LIG, and the
former department head self-reported to the IG. Since the time that all matters involving
the former LIG were consolidated with the IG, the IG has informed us that it has no record
that the LIG ever commenced an investigation in the matter involving the alderman, and
that the matter involving the aldermanic staff was closed, apparently without further
investigation by the LIG.
As noted above, the Board received a completed investigative report from the IG on May 26,
2017, with a petition for a probable cause finding. The case was based on the Board’s earlier
conclusion that the subject appeared to have committed a past violation of the Ordinance
that was not minor, and then advised the subject of the self-reporting-to-the-IG provisions

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 9
in the Ordinance. After the IG investigated and confirmed the Board’s earlier conclusion, the
matter was settled for a $1,500 fine. The agreement is posted on our website.
In the three (3) cases in which the Board determined that minor violations had occurred,
the Board sent confidential letters of admonition, as required by Ordinance.
There is no legal requirement imposed on the IG to report back to the Board on any actions
it takes on matters or persons referred to it by the Board, unless the IG completes an
investigation and submits a petition for a finding of probable cause to the Board based on
that investigation. This is unlike the arrangement in New York City between its Conflicts of
Interests Board and Department of Investigation.
P.

Lobbyists-Regulation and Enforcement
Lobbyists’ registrations and 4thQ activity reports were due before January 23, 2019.
Unfortunately, I had to find 75 lobbyists in violation of the Ordinance for failing to timely reregister or terminate (fines totaling $20,000 have already been levied, and three (3)
lobbyists have ongoing fines). 30 lobbyists were found in violation for failing to timely file
their 4thQ activity reports. One (1) has ongoing fines.
To date for 2019, there are 722 registered lobbyists, and we have collected $348,425 in
lobbyists’ registration fees.

Q.

Freedom of Information Act
Since the last regularly scheduled Board meeting, the office has received eight (8) new
requests under the Freedom of Information Act. The first request was for current copies of
all aldermen’s Statements of Financial Interests; the link to those records was provided, as
they are all on our website. The second request, sent City-wide, was for certain information
pertaining to City employees and contractors; based upon advice from the Law Department,
we responded that we did not have such records. The third was for violations and code
information on three distinct properties; we responded that we did not have such records.
The fourth was for records respecting the City’s parking meter transaction; we responded
that we did not have such records. The fifth was for a list designating lobbyists’ paper
filings; we responded that we did not have such records but would provide those lobbyists’
paper filings that we did possess. The sixth, seventh and eighth were virtually the same
(from the same requestor) for “any and all” records mentioning either the name of a
particular alderman, and the name of the alderman’s campaign committee or ward
committee. After consultation with the Law Department, we responded that the request
would have to be narrowed in order not to be unduly burdensome.

IV.

OLD BUSINESS
Discussion of pending amendments to the Municipal Code
The Executive Director referred the Board members to the proposal submitted over his name by
the Mayor at the February 2019 Council meeting, and explained that he had helped draft it. He

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 10
explained that he will attend aldermanic briefings on February 28, and testify before the City
Council’s Rules Committee on March 12, the day prior to the March City Council meeting. In answer
to several Board members’ questions, he explained that there is precedent for the Board to
recommend appropriate changes to the City’s ethics laws, and that, when Mayor Emanuel took
office, the Board submitted 30 pages of changes and explanations, many of which ended up being
picked up by the Mayor’s Ethics Reform Task Force and eventually enacted into law.
V.

NEW BUSINESS
None

At 12:35 p.m., the Board VOTED 4-0 (Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal,
absent) to adjourn into Executive Session under: (i) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1) to discuss the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body
or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity. However,
a meeting to consider an increase in compensation to a specific employee of a public body that is subject to
the Local Government Wage Increase Transparency Act may not be closed and shall be open to the public
and posted and held in accordance with this Act; (ii) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(4) to hear and discuss evidence or
testimony in closed hearing as specifically authorized pursuant to Governmental Ethics Ordinance Sections
2-156-385 and -392, and the Board’s Rules and Regulations, 4., as amended, effective January 5, 2017,
presented to a quasi-adjudicative body, as defined in the Illinois Open Meetings Act, provided that the body
prepares and makes available for public inspection a written decision setting forth its determinative
reasoning; and (iii) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(21) to discuss minutes of meetings lawfully closed under this Act,
whether for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes or semi-annual review of the minutes as
mandated by Section 2.06.
At 1:23 p.m., the Board VOTED 4-0 (Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal,
absent) to reconvene into open session.
MATTER CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN EXECUTIVE SESSION
VI.

APPROVAL OF THE EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES
The Board confirmed its discussion in executive session, VOTED 4-0 (Nancy C. Andrade, Dr.
Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal, absent) in open session, to approve the executive
session minutes of the January 18, 2019 meeting.

VII.

CASEWORK
A.

Board Consideration of Issuance of Probable Cause Letter against Person Who
Misappropriated City Property and Minor-violation Letters Against Persons Who Did
Not Follow the Gift Provisions under §2-156-142 of the Ordinance
1.

Case No. 18039.IG, City-owned Property; Gifts

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 11
By a 4-0 VOTE (Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal,
absent), the Board voted to find probable cause that a former City employee accepted
prohibited gifts, for which the employee did not follow procedure, and
misappropriated City property. The Board further found that two (2) other persons, a
City subcontractor and current City employee, gave and accepted prohibited gifts, but
that those two violations were minor in nature because of a procedural oversight and,
had the correct procedure been followed, the Board would have approved those
“gifts” as acceptable reasonable hosting for events related to official City business.
B.

Request for Waiver from the Ordinance’s Post-Employment Restrictions
2.

Case No. 19010.W, Post-Employment
By a 4-0 VOTE (Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal,
absent) the Board issued a waiver from the Ordinance’s post-employment restrictions
to a former employee of the Fire Department, to enable him to work on a
modernization of the City’s Building and Fire Codes, as the waiver is compellingly in
the public interest, and involves public safety. He is a recently retired former
employee, having had a distinguished 37-year City career, and is an expert in the areas
of fire prevention and applying fire safety and fire codes to the City’s existing building
codes.

C.

Dismissed and Referred Complaints
3.

Case No. 19011.C, No Jurisdiction
Staff reported that a citizen – who has filed repeated complaints with the staff over the
past few years – filed a complaint alleging violation of his civil and other rights by
dozens of City employees, including the Inspector General (personally), Corporation
Counsel (personally), Police Superintendent (personally), many unnamed “John Doe”
Chicago Police Department personnel, and by the Director of the Mayor’s Office for
People with Disabilities (personally), largely stemming from their alleged non-action
on complaints previously filed with them. The Executive Director explained
repeatedly to the complainant that the Board cannot conduct investigations, and that
the allegations made did not warrant a referral to any law enforcement agency,
particularly to the FBI, as the complainant insisted, and that the complainant should
file his own complaint with the FBI. The complainant then wrote a threatening email
to the Executive Director, accusing him of being in a conspiracy with the Inspector
General and others to make his complaint “go away” by ignoring it, and asked that the
Executive Director discuss the matter with the Board.
After reading the emails exchanged, and the “complaint,” the Board, by a 4-0 VOTE
(Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal, absent) approved
the dismissal of the complaint for the reasons cited.

4.

Case No. 19012.C, Fiduciary Duty, Prohibited Political Activity

 Open Session Minutes
February 22, 2019
Page 12
Staff reported that it received an emailed complaint from a citizen, alleging that an
alderman improperly “shut down” a candidate forum between himself and his election
opponent by requiring the forum’s organizers to have a permit and pay for it, which,
the organizers claim, has never been required in the past. Staff referred the matter to
the IG for any action it deems appropriate, including but not limited to a factual
investigation into what actually happened, and whether the alderman exceeded his
authority or improperly deviated from established procedures in taking these actions.
Two (2) weeks later, the IG notified the Board staff that it declined to investigate the
matter, and referred the matter back to the Board staff for any action it deems
appropriate, including but not limited to “investigation.” The IG stated that the
alderman had written a letter on City letterhead (which the Board had forwarded to
the IG in the first place) and that, in the IG’s view, the case involves improper use of
letterhead. Staff asked the IG whether it intended to inform the complainant of its
decision to decline to investigate, and the IG said it was not planning to do so, because
our office had referred the matter to it. Staff then informed the complainant of the
IG’s decision, whereupon the complainants contacted the IG, and told Board staff that
the IG informed them that “the Board should investigate.” The complainants insisted
on an explanation as to why we, the Board, were not going to investigate. In response,
staff explained that the Board has no authority to conduct a factual investigation in
this or any matter, and that this case requires a factual investigation in order to
ascertain whether the aldermen did as they allege, and whether in doing so he failed
to follow established City procedures.
After reading the emails exchanged, and the “complaint,” the Board, by a 4-0 VOTE
(Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal, absent) approved
the dismissal of the complaint.

VIII.

OTHER BUSINESS
None

At 1:30 p.m., the Board voted 4-0 (Nancy C. Andrade, Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson and David L. Daskal, absent)
to adjourn the meeting.
bd-minutes-3-15-19-os

 