

I

BUD GET, 
FINANCE, AND
AUDIT STANDING

COMMITTEE -

(113in of Ectrnit
CITY COUNCIL

COUNCIL Pnesmsx'r BRENDA loses

MEMORANDUM
TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel

City of Detroit
CC: Honorable Colleagues

Stephanie Washington, Legislative Liaison
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones 35?
DATE: April 15, 2019
RE: Community Investment Opinion/Ordinance

 

Oftentimes, signi?cant investments into community initiatives are limited to the utilization of grant dollars clue to
various legal restrictions. However, the City of Detroit utilizes General Fund dollars for programs such as the Bridging
Neighborhood Program where the dollars for rehab are not provided directly to constituents. Alternatively, the
services are provided through the procurement of rehabilitation services. This also occurs with the utilization of
compliance fee dollars for investment into workforce development. Please provide a report on the legality of the
utilization of general fund dollars through the procurement of various services to support neighborhood investments

such as:

Home Improvement and Repair

Rental Compliance Upgrades and Pest Mitigation
Small Business Investments

Employment training and preparation
Foreclosure prevention

Additionally, please work with my of?ce, the legislative policy division, and the Of?ce of the Chief Financial Of?cer
to draft a community investment ordinance creating the following:

Rental Management Fund to invest funding for maintenance, upgrades, lead remediation and pest control
for rental units.

Residential Rehab Fund to invest funding to assist homeowners with residential rehab, pest control, lead
remediation and other home improvement mechanisms.

Detroit Employment and Contracting Fund to invest funding to prepare residents and contractors to qualify
for contracting and employment opportunities utilizing tax payer dollars through outreach, training and
other investment mechanisms.

Skilled Trades Readiness Fund to invest funding for assistance with eliminating barriers related to skilled
trades.

Small Business Investment Fund to invest funding to provide small business development assistance
Foreclosure Prevention Fund to invest funding to provide residents with attaining legal assistance to
prevent foreclosures

Recreation Fund to invest funding into recreation programs, building upgrades, and other recreation
investments

Coleman A. Young Municipal Ccnler 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 2442-15 Fax (313) 224-4095



(?12in at Eetroit
CITY COUNCIL
COUNCIL PRESIDENT BRENDA JONES

MEMORANDUM
TO: Lawrence Garcia, Corporation Counsel
City of Detroit Law Department
CC: Honorable Colleagues
Louise Jones, Senior City Clerk
Stephanie Washington, Legislative LiaiSOn
FROM: Council President Brenda Jones
DATE: April 16, 2019
RE: Vacancy Ordinance Request

 

Please draft an ordinance requiring annual reporting on departmental vacancies by December 1
of each year detailing: (1) what positions were ?lled and the dollar amount associated with each
?lled position and; (2) what positions are vacant and the dollar amount associated with each
vacant positions.

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center 2 Woodward Avenue Suite 1340 Detroit. Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1245 Fax {313) 224-4095
0 

