CTA ADA Advisory Committee
Meeting Minutes
Monday, January 14 2019
Members Present
Committee Members:

Facilitator:
CTA Staff
Excused Absence:

Angela Davis (Chairman)
Melissa Fuller (Vice Chairman)
Bridget Hayman
Laura Isaacs
Michele Lee
Donna K. Shaw
Amy Serpe, Manager, ADA Compliance Programs
Michael Connelly, Chief Planning Officer
Amber Smock

Chairman Angela Davis called the meeting to order at 1:30 p.m.
Roll Call
 Meeting members introduced themselves.
Announcements
 Vice Chairman Fuller asked if anyone had any announcements.
 Facilitator Serpe informed the Committee that Ms. April Morgan coming from CTA’s Law
Department is the new Chief of Staff for the Board Chairman’s office.
 Vice Chairman Fuller informed the group that the National Federation of the Blind is sponsoring
scholarships. Information and applications can be found on their Website, nfbofillinois.org.
Approval of Minutes
 The Meeting Minutes for the October 9, 2018 meeting were sent to all Committee members in
advance for review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 As there were no corrections to the October 9, 2018 ADA Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
as presented, Chairman Davis asked for a motion to approve the minutes as submitted.
 Ms. Isaacs moved and Ms. Hayman seconded the motion.
 Everyone voted to approve the Minutes as written except for Vice Chairman Fuller who
abstained from voting.
Public Comment
 Vice Chairman, Fuller called forth the 2 people who had signed up in advance (via a form) to
speak first. She added that if after those individuals have finished, other individuals who did not
pre-register may speak as time permits.
 Garland Armstrong is concerned that people who are blind or visually impaired can’t see if their
Ride Free Reduced Fare Program Card is active when they tap it on the bus.
 Heather Armstrong is concerned about the bus islands at the Cumberland and Jefferson Park
Bus Terminals that connect to the Blue Line trains as wheelchair users cannot get on the
busses in the same place as other passengers. She said there is a steep ramp at Cumberland.
Facilitator Serpe reminded her that work is being done at the Bus Terminal at Jefferson Park to
address the boarding issue. Work at the Cumberland Terminal is not yet scheduled.
 As there was still time during the Public Comment portion of the meeting, Vice Chairman Fuller
asked if anyone else wanted to make Public Comment. One additional person did want to
speak.
1

 



Ms. Francy Howard stated that she has generally gotten good service/assistance from Bus
Operators, Train Conductors and attendants (CSAs). She stated she prefers to ride in the 1st rail
car as she feels safer there. She has has some difficulty in getting good directions/information
when getting off a train and asking for some help so she knows which way to go. She said that
sometimes CTA personnel do not provide accurate information.
Vice Chairman Fuller explained that all rail cars have surveillance cameras for safety and
Chairman Davis stated there are emergency buttons in each rail car.

Bus Sign Pilot Program
 Mr. Tony Coppoletta, Manager of CTA External Electronic Communications presented
information regarding an enhanced Information Bus Screen Pilot Program that is currently
running on a few Route #20 Madison Street buses. Mr. Coppoletta explained that, “… the
purpose of what we're testingto
is improve the customer experience by providing
some additional real time service
information toridersto make taking public transit hopefully easier
and more convenient.Our hope is that these
new
digital screens will make it easier for riders.
It includes real time travel information about
the next stop as well as a couple
of additionalstopsand estimated arrivals. It has some
transferinformation, and a really, really important part
of this that
it's also able to show digitally
servicein the event of areroute.” He also stated that this additional visual
information will be especially helpful to individuals who have hearing impairments. He also wanted th
Committee to understand that this new screen is in addition to how stops are now being called out an
that this service will not change.
 Some of the questions and concerns expressed by Committee members are:

Are the screens going to be on all buses and what about the “L”? (Vice Chair Fuller).

Where is the best place to sit to see the signs? (Ms. Shaw).

What about glare from the bus lights? (Ms. Hayman).

What are the colors of the background and print on the signs? (Vice Chairman Fuller).

What are the dates of the Pilot Program? (Chairman Davis).

Will this replace the flashing express signs that were demonstrated at our last meeting?
(Chairman Davis).
 Mr. Coppoletta explained that they will be looking for customer feedback during the Pilot
Program. He did explain that the screen background is dark and the print is light for contrast.
Also there are 2 screens on each bus, one in the front and the other in the middle of the bus so
people in both areas of the bus can see the information. The front lighting on the bus, especially
the light behind the screen, can be adjusted to cut down on glare. (Engineers are looking at this
issue). At this time, this pilot is just on the #20 Bus Route and not on any of the “L” train cars. At
this time, there is no end date for the Pilot Program as testing and gathering feedback is the
current main focus of the project.
General Construction Report Update
 Kevin Loughnane, General Manager, Capital Construction presented project updates.
 95th Street Station: “…I'm happy to announce that on December 31st, we received our occupancy
permitfrom the City;
and on January 4th, we hadMayoral
a
Opening event to open it to the public. Soof
asJanuary 4th, it has been open to
the public foruse on the north terminal and south terminal
includingfour elevators, and the pedestrian bridge that
stands
across from either side so you don't havewalk
to across 95th Street on the platform. You canall
gothe way up to the top
and go through without
any concerns.”
Therewas an event on January 9th where all work
the there has been
 Garfield Green Line Station. “… has been opened.
substantially complete.The elevator and escalators are all in servicethis
at point.”
the
of December. Quincy was open to the
publicincluding the two elevators
 Quincy: “… also another positive in middle
that makethat [station] ADAcompliant.”
2

 








“Some of the newer projects we've
touchedon occasionally, … Belmont and Jefferson
Park, those are basically station
improvementsbut especially at Jefferson Park, … we are improving the accommodations.
ADA
… inthe bus terminal
areas.The north partis currently worked on and the south part be
will flipped overnext.”
Vice Chairman Fuller asked what the passenger overpass is to which Mr. Loughnane explained
that ti is an enclosed Pedestrian Bridge which goes over 95th Street connecting the 2 sides.
People do not need to be outside to cross that street. He added that, “…There also isfull access on the
platform from the south terminal
to the north terminal. There's a walkway that
becomesour station platform. So where
you wouldalightthe trains, you can either walk down the
on platform or go all the way up to the second
floor and walk
across the Pedestrian
Bridge.”
Vice Chairman Fuller asked about colors on stair edges, landings, etc., to make them more
defined for people with low vision. Mr. Loughnane stated that he and the Engineer and Architect
Departments are looking into what materials might work the best for a long-term solution having
minimal maintenance and how to put specifications into design criteria.
When Vice Chairman Fuller asked about current stations, Mr. Loughnane replied, “Right now, we
don't have any current
plansat existing stations; but once we determine
how we're going to move forward with the design,
that will go a long way into helping the
current situations.”
Mr. Loughnane went on to explain that the issue is to find materials that can stand up to the wear and
of constant usage. “… a more vital, long-term solution with minimal maintenance”. Paint is not a good
option as it would fade or get scraped off quite quickly.
In response to questions from the Committee Chair and Vice Chair Mr. Loughnane said while no speci
timeline has been established, he will keep the Committee informed of developments related to the
stairway and other way-finding issues.

Red & Purple Modernization Program (RPM) Update
 Jeff Wilson, Director of Community Relations for RPM provided an update on this project.
 Mr. Wilson stated that the Design/Build Contract has been awarded to Walsh Construction.
 The first 4 RPM Stations are Lawrence, Argyle, Berwin & Bryn Mawr. The project also consists
of the Belmont Flyover that will ultimately provide faster service on the Red, Purple and Brown
Lines as the Brown Line trains will go over the Red and Purple Line trains to help eliminate
delays at Belmont.
 The CTA is currently working with Commonwealth Edison and other utilities as there is a utility
relocation process which must proceed the construction of the RPM and Belmont Flyover
process. Utility work should be complete by the end of summer 2019.
 These first 4 stations within the RPM project are slated to be completed by 2025. At some point,
the Lawrence and Argyle Stations will be shut down, however, temporary stations will be built
nearby to facilitate passengers while construction is happening. While there may be some
accessibility elements at these temporary stations, there will not be elevators. The new, rebuilt
stations when completed will have full access including elevators.
 Chairman Davis asked if there would be community meetings prior to station shut-downs, etc.,
to which Mr. Wilson said that, “Yes, … CTA is planning todo several meetings with both the business and
the
community and with the larger constituents
aroundthose four stations that [were] mentioned as well
the
asRed bypass
area.We're in the process of planning
thosemeetings; but in the meantime, what we have
been doing is having multiple
meetings with theChambersof Commerce, [and] with the
Aldermanic offices,which would be the 46th Ward which is James
Cappleman;48th Ward, Harry Osterman, and 44th
Ward, Tom Tunney. All of the elected have been fully engagedthis
in process as well as the Chambers and the
nonprofit community.”
 Ms. Lee asked if the North & Clybourn Station was part of this program to which Mr. Wilson
answered not at this time.
 Ms. Hayman asked about general access during the reconstruction phases for all the stations.
The Committee will be kept informed as stations close and construction begins. Also, if anyone
3

 encounters any issues such as on sidewalks, etc., CTA’s ADA Unit should be notified so that it
can be investigated and resolved/improved.
Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Report
 The Elevator/Escalator Efficiencies Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance for
review in addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
 Mr. Nicholas Labus, Manager, Facilities Maintenance was available to answer any questions
and presented information regarding upcoming maintenance work.
 For the 4th quarter of 2018 vs. Q-4 in 2017, the following reflects Elevator Efficiencies:

October 2018 = 98.2% vs. October 2017 = 97.3% (0.9%)

November 2018 = 98.1% vs. November 2017 = 98.2% (-0.1%)

December 2018 = 97.7% vs. December 2017 = 98.4% (-0.7%)
 For the 4th quarter of 2018 vs. Q-4 in 2017, the following reflects Escalator Efficiencies:

October 2018 = 96.8% vs. October 2017 = 82.9% (14.0%)

November 2018 = 97.8% vs. November 2017 = 87.1% (10.7%)

December 2018 = 97.3% vs. December 2017 = 91.4% (5.9%)
 Mr. Labus added information on the following Escalator Reconditioning Projects.

Madison/Monroe – Red Line, anticipated completion date – February 15, 2019.

Monroe/Adams – Blue Line, anticipated completion date – February 20, 2019.

35th/Dan Ryan – Red Line, anticipated completion date May 15, 2019.
 Mr. Labus reported, “Some recent updates [are that]
we've completed the door refurbishments on the
elevatorson
December20th.We just got approved for
three [more]replacements in our elevators; and by end
the of the month, we
will have an estimate to
modernize… the elevator on the north
end [of the Clark & Lake Station]”.
 Ms. Shaw again raised the issue related to the 87th Street Station as there is only one elevator
on the south side entrance. If you are going from the train to an east-bound bus it is convenient
but if you need to catch a west-bound bus, you must cross a busy street with no direct stoplight.
Ms. Shaw thinks there should be an elevator on both sides of this station and that lighting
should be improved as it is not safe.
 Ms. Serpe explained that the City and the Chicago Department of Transportation (CDOT) are
responsible for street lights. She added that, at this time, there are no plans to build an elevator
on the north side of the 87th Street Station.
 Chairman Davis raised the issue that there is an escalator on the west side of Madison &
Monroe on Madison that has been out for an extended period of time. Mr. Cozzo had said it was
due to a problem getting parts because of the age of the escalator. Chairman Davis wanted to
know if this was still true to which Mr. Labus stated that it was.
 Ms. Lee asked how often the online status of elevators is updated?
 Mr. Labus and Facilitator Serpe explained that similar to how people can get immediate bus
alerts if things are changing, people can sign up to receive elevator alerts via e-mail on their
electronic devices. Texts are not yet available but between the Elevator Phone Hotline which is
updated hourly and e-mail alerts which are updated in real time, as well as the Elevator Status
Board at rail stations, customers can be kept appraised of changes on any or all of the elevator
outages on the various rail lines.
 It was also stated that Mr. Labus provides information to Facilitator Serpe regarding upcoming
elevator projects so that an e-mail can be sent via CTA’s “Access” mail box prior to elevator
shut-downs informing customers of upcoming maintenance projects which can assist with travel
planning.
Customer Service Report
4

 








The Customer Service Reports were sent to all Committee members in advance for review in
addition to the hard copy provided in the meeting packets.
Kate Kennelly, Manager of Customer Feedback Programs was available to answer any
members’ questions.

Total CTA complaints for all three months of Q-4 2018 (October, November and
December 2018), = 4,591 of which 187 were ADA related complaints.

October 2018 complaints = 81

November 2018 complaints = 59

December 2018 complaints = 47

Q-4 2018 Bus Related Complaints: October = 62, November = 47 and December = 44
totaling 153.

Q-4, 2018 Rail Related Complaints: October = 19, November = 12 and December = 3
totaling 34. (153 + 34 = 187 bus & rail complaints).

During the 3 month 2018 Q-4 period, there were a total of 53 ADA Compliance
Complaints which include things such as: *Employee failing to assist customers with
disabilities or help with securement of wheelchairs, not complying with ADA rules and
fare discrepancies involving passengers identifying as having a disability.

Below is a breakdown of ADA related complaint categories for Q-4 2018 vs Q-4 2017:

Total disability-related complaints for Q-4 2018 = 193 complaints vs. 187 in 2017. Of that
total:

ADA Compliance (categories listed above) = 60 in 2018 vs. 53 in 2017.

Rude Operator totaled 40 complaints in 2018 vs. 43 in 2017.

Pass up totaled 31 complaints in 2018 vs. 42 in 2017.

Ramps totaled 12 complaints in 2018 vs. 10 in 2017.

Malfunctioning/Inoperable AVAS (automated stop announcements) totaled 7
complaints in 2018 vs 0 in 2017.

Priority Seating issues totaled 6 complaints in 2018 vs. 9 in 2017.

Stroller issues totaled 11 complaints in 2018 vs. 7 in 2017.

Failure to Kneel Bus totaled 8 complaints in 2018 vs. 3 in 2017.

Refusal to allow service animal on board totaled 9 complaints in 2018 vs. 4 in
2017.

Failure/Refusal to Deploy Gap Filler totaled 4 complaints in 2018 vs. 3 in 2017.

Elevator malfunction complaints totaled 1 in 2018 vs. 5 in 2017

Escalator malfunction complaints totaled 9 in 2018 vs. 2 in 2017

Failure to announce stops complaints totaled 0 in 2018 vs. 0 in 2017

Accessible Service complaints totaled 0 in 2018 vs. 0 in 2017

Touching passenger/equipment/service animal complaints totaled 1 in 2018 vs. 0
in 2017.
Vice Chairman Fuller stated that, “I said it before and I’ll say it again, that I believe the service,
the customer service that I receive on CTA is outstanding. I don’t really have any huge issues or
have any problems.” She did go on to ask, “I did notice on the report that there
was a spike in the third quarter
of last yearwith accessible complaints, and it dropped
considerablyin the fourthquarter.I'm just wondering what
correctivemeasures did you use to bring it down
so drastically?
Ms. Kennelly: “ From a customer
servicedepartment perspective, I have seen that
same decrease. … We doshare
this feedback regularly and internally with
the appropriate departments.It is sort of aseasonal trend.We typically see
this volume decreasein the fourth quarter most
years.So frommy perspective, it seems on trend with what seen
I've
before. But it terms of what's happening
in operations, I would defer operations.”
to
Vice Chair Fuller: “ How involved are you
in front line complaints?For example, I called
and made a complaint about a
driver. Would that getto you at all or is that someone under you who
handlesthat and it kind of stops
there?”
5

 












Ms. Kennelly: “ It doesn't stop
there. Thosecomplaints come in from the phoneCustomer
to
Service reps which are in
my department. We also take e-mails aswell. We'll generally compile all that data
and put it together and identify trends
and thingslike that so we can report what types of issues
are comingin. …We share them with Bus
and Operations
Management [and the] President's
office.”
Mr. Mike Connelly (Chief Planning Officer): “ If I can, just to put atopoint
how much attention gets paid to that, [complaints},
we havea daily flash meeting every morning, every
weekdaymorning, that's convened by the President's
Office.In that
meeting are bus andrail operations people, as well as customer service,
as well as construction, and everyone
else. One
of the items that's always gone over are
the complaints from the day before; what's trend,
the what's the individual; what's
going on; andwhat'sthe follow-up and how many have been
rectifiedwithin a certain period of time, and how
many
haven't, and if there are any that needbe
tofollowed upon. So it's something that the
President'sOffice pays attention to
literally every day.So just to reemphasize to you, I know itofisconcern. It is of concern to CTA as
well.”
Vice Chairman Fuller: “ I also noticed, too,
Mike that the complaints for disability averaged to
onetwo complaints a day,
and I thought thatwas outstanding when you have 1.5 million customers
a day and you only have one to two
complaints.
I think that's pretty
good.”
Mr. McFarland (General Manager, Bus Service Management): “ H i, I'm Derrick McFarland.
I just wanted to comment on
[what] you asked about [regarding] how
the complaint process is handled through
operations.So customer service
complaints [are sent] the
to garages. The managers get the complaint.
They research the complaint to identify either the
bus or the operator. They request a hard
drive. Oncethey request the hard drive, [for] all operators
they
– get thevideo.
They bring [the] operator in and
the operators fill out answers to [the] complaint.
They'reinterviewed at that time after
reviewing thehard drive, and operator's
statement.We move forward with disciplinethe
of operator or not to discipline
the operatoraccording to what the video shows at that time
.”
Ms. Gwennette Jordan (Vice President Rail Operations)
: “ So the same procedure [is followed} on rail
the as well,
but there's noaudio.So we haveto observe what were the actions of the employee
in the station with the customer – [and
then we] normally call
back so they [employee] can respond to the
complaint.”
Chairman Davis:And
“ it would be thecustomerfeedback in Kate Kennelly's group that wouldthe
do calling back to the
customer?”
Ms. Jordan: “ No. That's the manager who
made the initial contact, the one-on-one, with
the customer. They get the
response.”
Ms. Lee’s concern is centered on the fact that the public may not know the process for initiating
a complaint. Ms. Hayman and Ms. Isaacs echoed her concern.
Both Mr. Connelly and Ms. Serpe said that the CTA will look at various ways that complaints can
and are communicated to the CTA. People do use Twitter and Facebook which is monitored by
Mr. Coppoletta, as well as online/e-mail and phone communications.

CTA Staff Training Program


The following staff formed a panel for the purposes of the discussion:

Mr. DerrickMcFarland, General Manager Bus Service Management

Facilitator Amy Serpe, Manager ADA Compliance Programs

Mr. Craig Rogers, Senior Manager Bus Operations Instruction

Ms. GeishaEster, Vice President Training and Workforce Development
 Facilitator Serpe: “So I do training, maybe once ortwice a week since I've been here and Ithe
do disability
awareness training. It's
generallyabout a one-and-a-half hour training
. The big things that I really talk about are language
and laws, etiquette,attitudes, CTApolicies, procedures, and
practices.”
 Topics covered.

Language (Outdated terms vs. more acceptable language such as “handicap” vs “person
with a disability, etc.”

Laws (especially the ADA), as well as FTA and Department of Transportation (DOT)
regulations.
6

 













Etiquette (broken down by specific “dos and don’ts for people with physical, visual,
hearing, intellectual, learning, mental disabilities and other health-related conditions.

Attitudes towards people with disabilities.

CTA Policies, Procedures & Practices including such policies as the pet vs. Service
Animal policy, stroller policy, priority seating (we can request people to move but cannot
make anyone move), and wheelchair securement (which is up to the individual) policies.
Beliefs about people with disabilities

Where do they come from?

How do they affect one’s treatment of people with disabilities?

The fact that not all obstacles are obvious (discussion of attitudes).

Even people with the same disability have different needs.

How access benefits everyone.
Discussion of various statements. They must decide if “True or False” Some examples of
statements:

Peple with disabilities are sick.

All people who are Deaf can read lips. This leads into a discussion on how to solve
communication difficulties if someone does not hear. (Specific resolutions such as writing
things down, using maps, etc.).

Does someone who is blind or visually impaired really have a sixth sense? How does
one’s focus assist when traveling?

Does everyone who has a disability need help?
Do’s and Don’ts of Disability Etiquette

General things such as treat adults as adults, you don’t need to apologize for not having
a disability, etc..

Discussion regarding various types of disabilities including Physical (wheelchair/mobility
device users), Vision & Blindness, Deaf & Hard of Hearing, Intellectual, Learning, Mental
Illness & Medical issues.

Discussion of mobility devices and CTA rules related to wheelchair securement being an
option left up to the user, ramp usage (anyone may request it), etc.

Also what Bus Operators/CSAs cannot do such as walk someone across a street. (Staff
is not allowed to leave their vehicle or station).

Demonstration of the Sighted Guide Technique for a customer who is blind or visually
impaired or anyone who requests physical assistance in getting to the platform, etc.
Disability Laws

What life was like before and since passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act.

Why access is so important especially as it relates to transportation.

International Symbol of Accessibility & what it means.

Five Titles of the ADA.

Definition of Disability.

Visible and invisible disabilities.
Explanation of the various Fare Cards and reduced fare rates specific to people with disabilities
and seniors:

Disability “D” Fare cards for mainline/fixed route users who pay a reduced fare.

“Paratransit” “P” Fare card holders allowing the Personal Assistant of a person with a
Paratransit Card to also pay a reduced fare.

Ride Free “F” Fare card holder may also have a legal Paratransit card whereby a
Personal Assistant rides for a reduced fare.

Senior “S” Fare card for anyone age 65 and over pays a reduced fare.
Discussion related to respect & attitudes towards and about people with disabilities.
7

 












Language – People First Language - Outdated vs. Say Instead. (Examples: handicap vs. person
with a disability; mentally retarded vs. intellectual disability, etc.).
CTA Accommodations for Employees & for the Public

Extensive discussion of what specific types of accommodations the CTA has on its
buses, rail cars and at its bus stops and rail stations.

Walk a mile in someone else’s shoes: – What has CTA done to accommodate…
someone with a broken leg, someone who is blind, someone who has a cognitive
disability, etc. – list types of accommodations on CTA buses, trains, train stations, etc.
NOTE: students receive lists of accommodations and are told to look for all of these
things as they start their shift so they will be able to better answer questions from
customers.
Order of Priority Seating: it is explained that CTA personnel should be asking people to vacate
the Priority Seating areas but cannot force anyone to move. We can request, we cannot require
people to move.

People who use wheelchairs or other mobility devices.

People with disabilities who do not use wheelchairs.

Seniors without disabilities.

Expectant mothers.

People with strollers. NOTE: If the stroller is used as a mobility device (pediatric
stroller) for a child with a disability, the stroller may stay in the Wheelchair
Securement/Priority Seating Area.

People with small children.

Everyone else.
Policies & Procedures – Specific SOPs – Highlighted include:

Service Animals vs. Pets

Boarding & Alighting – Ramp users first on /last off

Priority Seating Order (Request not Require)

Strollers – must be folded as bus/rail car becomes crowded or if a person with a
disability, especially a wheelchair user needs the Wheelchair Securement or Priority
Seating areas.

Practice what to say when asking people to move.

Reasonable Modification of a Policy (Example: While employees may not handle
someone’s personal belongings even if told to do so by the customer, they may assist in
tapping a person’s fare card if that card is visible such as hanging around their neck or
attached to their wheelchair. The same thing for helping someone put cash into the bus
or Ventra machine. If the cash is in someone’s hand and the person asks for assistance
inserting it, staff may assist).
Concerns & Complaints from Disability Community. Specifically discuss such things as bus pass
ups, bus and train boarding and alighting issues, cannot locate CSA even when the assist
button is pushed, rail gap filler issues such as not knowing how to use it, getting help upon
request, being asked if assistance is needed for someone with a visible disability, bus operators
or rail personnel that don’t request people to move from the Priority Seating areas, bus or rail
failure to make stop and other announcements, overall poor attitude or staff rudeness.
Book referrals such as To Ride the Public’s Buses, No Pity, Nothing About Us Without Us,
Reflections from a Different Journey: What Adults With Disabilities Wish All Parents Knew etc.
ADA Manager contact info
Ms. Ester: “Before we go forward, Amy gave us
a good overview of what we cover in training, but
do want
I
to step back
and speak to you how we get
to the trainingmaterials.So we work in partnership, with
otherdepartments in the
organization that will
be affected by the training, as well Amy.
as So whetherwe're developing training for CSAs or our
8

 














Bus Operators or if we're looking at facilitation,
we make sure that we're partnering with allour
of stakeholders, and Amy
being one of them, before
we even develop content that just aren't front
line employees.The other thing that we partner
with that Amy is a part of, and she brings that
perspective,is our Standard Operating Procedures [SOP} Committee.
So
before we release SOP standard
operatingprocedures, there's a Committee that reviews
and
it gets feedback from the
areas of responsibilities
or areas of interest and know that Amy sitsthose
on Committees aswell.So we're always looking
to improve our content, improve our curriculum, we
anddo that on a regular basis and we make sure we
thathave all the
stakeholders.”
Chairman Davis asked, in follow-up to a Public Comment that was made during the October meeting t
an individual using a power chair was having difficulty with Bus Operators who did not know how to
appropriately secure his wheelchair. She asked how that issue was resolved and how are staff trained
far as securing a wheelchair?
Mr. Rogers: “ I can handle those
questions. …Subsequent tohearingabout the situation of Mr. Camacho earlier,
that
situation was forwarded to
us [Bus Instruction].
So we addressed it from training
a
perspective in twoways.One, we
had a short-termplan that we enacted immediately in that
all Operators who are senior that are undergoing
any type of
training involving a bus, that they
would get refreshing and re-instruction with regard
to wheelchair security and assisting
customers inthat regard. So in addition to the initial training
and refresher training, which I'll answer in
minute,
a
the first
part was again short-term, all
traininginvolving the bus, we would re-instruct
our Operators. We're looking forward this
year to rolling out and partnering with the community
as some point a much larger campaign ofour
all Operators with
regard to the securement those
in
areas.So with regard to the refresher
training,Operators are refreshing -- again we
have new Operators on the premises all the
time. Sorefreshing is offered every two
years.So every other year, they are
refreshed; and theydo wheelchair securement, assisting customers
with disabilities is part of that trainingwell.”
as
Chairman Davisasked if there was some sort of material that Bus Operators have that explains how
to secure a wheelchair?
Mr. Rogers explained that the Operators have information and SOPs that they are encouraged to keep with them.
There are also online staff materials. “So the operators have access the
to information in case they're not carrying a
largebook, they can specifically get that type
of information in case they're having
difficultyremembering that because we
do understand it'sa large volume ofinformation.With regard to the question in terms
of how -- this is a great question by
the way –with regards how they secure mobile devices.
Becausethere are a variety of different devices,
the Operators
are basically trained through the
years how to secure the device itself, the customer,
and the wheels of the mobile
device.
So, for example, I believe
in Mr. Camacho's situation, he had a power
wheelchairthat could not be secured through the
typicallocking mechanisms that are on the
bus. So in those instances, the Operators are trained
that they have to, No. 1,
ask the customer again,
do they need assistance; and once the
customerresponds, askhow. So if they are securing
a
mobile device that cannot be secured
the conventional way, then it's incumbent upon
the Operator to receive direction from
the customeras to where to secure the device via the strapsthe
on frame of the wheelchair.Never on somethingthat
could be detached such as an armrest, leg rest,
or wheels, etcetera.So again, the operators ask the
customerswhere
to secure the device and take direction
from the customer at thattime.”
Ms. Lee asked for clarification in regards to, “… If I send a complaint in and say
this Operator doesn't know
how to strap in mychair,will they automatically get like a refresher
courseor do they have to wait for the two
years?”
Mr. McFarland responded,
If an
“ operator justdoesn'tknow how to properly secure the mobile device,
that is sent to
our Manager. The Manager brings
the Operator in, and then at that point, they would
be sent to the Instruction
Department.They get the SOP or whatever they need
to get the knowledge they need to properly secure
the
wheelchair.”
Ms. Hayman asked if there was an ADA section within the SOPs to which Mr. Rogers replied
that there are specific SOPs related to disability issues including wheelchair securement.
Ms. Hayman suggested that the training materials are broad based to which Facilitator Serpe
asked what kinds of information did she feel was missing in regards to assisting people with
disabilities. No specifics were offered but Ms. Hayman feels that the Committee should have
access to CTA’s training materials.
Ms. Estes pointed out that SOPs are reviewed on a 3-year cycle and many departments are
involved in their construction. Facilitator Serpe also added that the Law Department reviews
9

 




















materials and also has a representative on the SOP Committee. Training books and other
materials are proprietary.
Ms. Hayman commented that some of the complaints such as pass ups or rude operators deal
with behavioral issues.
While Facilitator Serpe agreed with this observation, she also pointed out that in terms of
discipline, there are various Unions and Union regulations which govern what the CTA can and
cannot do in terms of discipline. And even when such discipline occurs, confidentiality comes
into play and specifics regarding a discipline resolution cannot openly be shared.
Ms. Isaacs asked if the CTA every used “mystery shoppers” to help assess if staff is in
compliance with various policies.
Facilitator Serpe, as well as Mr. Connelly explained that, “Yes” there are people who report both
ADA and safety violations. And there is a full-time employee who is a wheelchair user for this
job. Also, many staff provide feedback regarding compliance including both Serpe and Connelly
and others as they are aware of the policies and practices related to assisting customers with
disabilities.
Some Committee members stated that although they have visible disabilities they are not asked
if they need assistance.
Chairman Davis commented that not everyone follows the Code of Conduct in terms of staff
interacting with the public. She noted that there are differences in how situations are handled
from station to station as expressed during previous meetings. She provided the example of
sometimes some Bus Operators ask people in Priority Seating to move for somone with a
disability and sometimes they don’t say anything.
Facilitator Serpe pointed out that there are about 4,000 Bus Operators and people don’t always
do what the training designates them to do. This is not an excuse but reality. There are also
times when something might be happening on the road and the Bus Operator isn’t responding to
a customer with a disability who is just entering the vehicle. She encouraged people that need
assistance to also ask for it and if they don’t get it, that definitely needs to be reported and
investigated.
Vice Chairman Fuller pointed out that Pace has some rules that the CTA does not and enforces
those rules especially related to strollers being folded prior to boarding.
Both Mr. Connelly and Facilitator Serpe pointed out that the CTA policy or rule was put in place
by top management in an effort to accommodate as many customers and varied situations as
possible. While strollers can be in the Priority Seating area if not crowded, they should be folded
if the seats are needed by someone with a disability. At this time, that is CTA’s Stroller Policy or
rule. Any changes would need to come from upper management.
Ms. Estes pointed out that there were a couple of different issues related to training including
content development, training personnel regarding policies and procedures and enforcement
related to if those procedures are followed.
Chairman Davis stated that she had a great experience the first time she asked for somone to
assist her at a rail station. She received the appropriate help at both ends of her trip. However,
the next 2 times she needed help from the CSA no one showed up to assist her.
Ms. Jordanagain explained that, “The normalprocedure is that the CSAs or CSRs are contacted
by the
Communication Power Control Centerexpect
to
your arrival at the station at a particular
time.So that person is supposed
to go upthe platform and assist you as to whatever your
need, [such as]to alight or to exit the station, or either
to utilize
the gap filler to exit the
train.Eitheror. But they're notified by radio…. The information
is generally given to control via radio,
and if it'sa station [that is] a short distance, then they gothe
offradio and communicate that information that
there'sa
customer approaching your station, will arrive
at your station at this particular time and
requires assistance.”
Mr. Connelly stated, “The only thing that I was
goingto comment on, there is a Call Button to the
call CSA to the platform
level.If you arriveand there's nobody there,”
Ms. Jordan added, “Yes, there
is. And theoperatorscan assist you aswell.”
10

 
















It was also explained that the call buttons are located in both the paid and unpaid areas of a station. N
the face of the CSA booth/Kiosk facing the fare array and on the Platform near the outside of the wind
screen/shelter.
Chairman Davis suggested that maybe other people can assist with trainings from outside of the
CTA and Ms. Jordan pointed out that the individuals doing the trainings are unionized and there
are some restrictions regarding who can train front line employees. She explained that, “When we
develop content, we use
subjectmatter experts and those people come from
our Operations area, … so we
can definitely
consider thinking about
askingOperations who's your star CSAs or Operators
who can give us insight as we continue to
update material.”
Mr. Connelly pointed out that several CTA front line personnel were recognized at a recent
Board meeting as providers of exemplary service so the CTA does recognize those individuals.
Ms. Lee and Ms. Hayman inquired as to what real life experiences staff have in terms of
interacting with people with disabilities.
Ms. Serpe explained that she shares a variety of stories and scenarios taken from real-life
experiences that people with disabilities have had. Ms. Ester added that role play is used and
that new Bus Operators and other staff go out on runs with seasoned personnel to not only learn
about the route but also to experience accommodating a variety of customers which includes
people with various disabilities.
Ms. Shaw raised the concern of communicating with individuals who are Deaf or Hard of
Hearing or DeafBlind. Responses from Facilitator Serpe, Ms. Estes and Mr. Rogers explained
that staff is first of all taught to respect all customers. Bus Operators and others are taught to
write out information either on paper or even in the air if paper is not available. Maps are used
and as needed, tactile communication (writing in someone’s hand) may also prove useful for
someone who is DeafBlind.
Facilitator Serpe admitted that communication is sometimes difficult and is open to hearing what
other methods might be used. She did explain that at no time is an Operator, CSA or other front
line staff able to text. Cell phone use is prohibited.
Ms. Isaacs asked what would happen if someone on a bus was having a mental breakdown
what would the Bus Operator do? Would they call the police? Facilitator Serpe responded that if
the Bus Operator became aware of the issue, they would contact the Control Center. It would
depend on the circumstance in terms of whether the Police were called or an ambulance, etc.
The Bus Operator is responsible for the safety of all passengers so the incident is reported to
Control and then the appropriate intervention is initiated.
Ms. Lee expressed concern over reporting someone such as a Bus Operator as she has to take
the same bus every day and is concerned about retaliation.
Mr. McFarland explained that the staff person does not know who called in the complaint as
there are times when the CTA receives third party complaints. They are interviewed by their
Manager and they are coached, as well as disciplined to encourage them to provide excellent
customer service.
Ms. Jordan added that employees also receive certificates for providing good service and are
recognized in other ways.

Facilitator’s Report
 As this meeting was running late, Amy Serpe, Manager ADA Compliance Programs only
provided a brief update from the ADA Unit.
 Fourteen applications were received in answer to the call for new ADA Advisory Committee
members. Five new members are needed to replace those individuals whose terms were up.
The new members, selected by the Board Chairman’s office should be in place by the April
meeting.
11

 Old Business
 Facilitator Serpe reported that, at this time, text message updates on a Ventra card are not
available. There is an app that can be downloaded and will provide information on one’s account
such as it is almost out of money.
 Chairman Davis would also appreciate information about the budget during the April
meeting especially for the new members.
New Business
 Vice Chairman Fuller was interested in an ASAP program update. The annual ASAP Program
updates are scheduled to be provided at the July 8, 2019 meeting.
 The Committee will receive CTA’s Ethics training at the April meeting.
 The Chairman and Vice Chairman would like information on what is required under the
ADA for transportation and how the CTA exceeds some of those requirements.
 The Committee would like to see ridership data related to people with disabilities.
Adjournment
 Chairman Davis noted the next meeting will be Monday, April 8, 2019 from 1:30 – 4 p.m.
 Chairman Davis asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Fuller moved to adjourn the meeting and
Ms. Hayman seconded the motion. All voted, “Aye,” and the meeting adjourned at 4:33 p.m.
ajs 4-5-19 Approved by Committee 4-8-19

12

 