 f? 
0?21) /9

BUD GET,
FINANCE, AND
OMMITTEE

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
5? 2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 824
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-3011 - TTY2711

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (313) 224-9400
OF THE ASSESSOR 

April 10, 2019

  
  

Honorable City Council:

RE: Request for the Of?ce of the Assessor to Recommend to Council to Council Modifications
To Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Homestead Areas

The Of?ce of the Assessor was asked by this honorable body to review the existing ?fty-two
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Homestead (NEZ-H) areas for the purpose of determining if the
existing NEZ-H areas are serving the purposes de?ned in Public Act 147 of 1992 (NEZ Act) as
amended and if it would be possible to add additional NEZ-H areas in the City of Detroit.

are established by a local government unit (LGU) who meets the quali?cations of an
?Eligible Distressed Community? and desires to provide for the development and rehabilitation of
residential housing. The NEZ-H covers only pre-existing residential property, located within a
subdivision platted pursuant to state law before January 1, 1968. The LGU determines the areas to be
established as an NEZ-H. Each area must contain not less than 10 platted parcels of land which are
compact and contiguous. An NEZ-H shall not exceed 10 percent of the total acreage contained within
the boundary of the LGU. If approved by the County Board of Commissioners or the County
Executive, the NEZ-H areas can contain up to 15 percent of the total acreage of the LGU.

While only owner?occupied residential properties are eligible for NEZ-H status, a review of the
existing legal descriptions for each of the ?fty-two areas does reveal that ineligible properties were
included and that ineligible property was counted in the total area of the abated property. By removing
these ineligible properties from the legal descriptions, the total city acreage abated by NEZ-H falls to
11.98 percent of the total acreage of the City Of Detroit.

The Of?ce of the Assessor has also reviewed each of the ?fty-two existing NEZ-H areas to determine
if they are serving the purpose of Public 147 of 1992 (NEZ Act) and if not, would it be possible to
modify the acreage of existing NEZ-H areas and create new areas in other parts of the City of
Detroit. While I would strongly urge members of Detroit City Council to have the appropriate legal
agency review this question, the Of?ce of the Assessor believes that Detroit City Council has the
authority to modify existing NEZ-H areas and create new NEZ-H areas. It appears to the Of?ce of the
Assessor that as long as the City of Detroit meets the quali?cations of an ?Eligible Distressed
Community? then the governing body of the local government unit has the authority speci?cally
mentioned in RA. 147 of 1992, Section 207.772 Section 3 (1) which reads in part:

(I) The governing body of a local governmental unit by resolution may designate 1 or more
neighborhood enterprise zones within that local governmental unit. Except as otherwise provided
in this subsection, a neighborhood enterprise zone shall contain not less than 1 0 platted parcels
of land. A neighborhood enterprise zone located in a qualified downtown revitalization district
may contain less than 10 platted parcels if the platted parcels together contain 10 or more
facilities. All the land within a neighborhood enterprise zone shall also be compact and
contiguous. Contiguity is not broken by a road, right-of?way, or property purchased or taken
under condemnation if the purchased or condemned property was a single parcel prior to the sale
or condemnation.

 
 

Honorable City Council
Council Modi?cations To Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Homestead Areas

April 10,2019

 

Page 2 of 5
Additionally, I believe the Section 207.772 Section 3 (5) addresses the ability of the governing body
of the local government unit to modify existing NEZ-H areas. This section reads in part:

(5) A resolution designating a neighborhood enterprise zone, other than a zone designated under
subsection (2), may be repealed or amended not sooner than 3 years after the date of adoption or
of the most recent amendment of the resolution by the governing body of the local governmental
unit. The repeal or amendment of the resolution shall take effect 6 months after adoption.
However, an action taken under this subsection does not invalidate a certi?cate that is issued or
in effect and a facility for which a certi?cate is issued or in e?ect shall continue to be included in
the total acreage limitations under this section until the certificate is expired or revoked.

The Of?ce of the Assessor believes it would be appropriate for this Honorable Body to consider
modifying three of the existing NEZ-H areas with an toward reducing the acreage of these areas
and creating new NEZ-H areas throughout the city. Speci?cally we would suggest a review of the
following NEZ-H areas:

0 Joy Road/South?eld
- Eight Mile/Evergreen
Cadieux/Mack

The rationale behind this recommendation are that each of these areas has:

II Seen a decline in the value of the residential housing stock
0 Seen an increase in the number of ineligible properties
0 Has seen a decline in the number of eligible properties

I would like to emphasize that the creation or modi?cation of areas is a matter of policy to be
decided by elected of?cials. The criteria used in this recommendation has been provided to this of?ce
by the staff of President Pro Tem Shef?eld as she prepares her own resolution to address the 
issue.

By rewriting the legal descriptions for the existing ?fty-two NEZ-H areas and by modifying the areas
of the three mentioned in this report, we have created suf?cient acreage to extend NEZ-H status to
the expiring NEZ New and Rehab areas, which Pro Tem Shef?eld has indicated is a priority. This
also allows for the creation of three new NEZ-H areas in District 6. Currently there are no in
this District.

Even with these additions, the percentage of acreage used for NEZ abatements stands at 12.97
percent of the City of Detroit?s total acreage. This would allow this honorable body the opportunity
to consider expanding, modifying, or creating new NEZ-H areas.

Re tfully sub it ed

  
   

Alvin Horhn
Deputy CFO/Assessor

 
  
 

Honorable City Council
Council Modi?cations To Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Homestead Areas

April 10, 2019
Page 3 of5

New NEZ-H Zones
#1

Beginning at the intersection of the south line of Michigan Ave (100 ft wide) and the west line of
the alley between the east line of PC 40 and west line of PC 61 (west of Western Ave (60 ft wide)),
thence southeasterly along said east line of PC 40 to the north line ofJohn Kronk Ave (66 ft wide),
thence easterly along said north line ofJohn Kronk Ave to the west line of Livernois Ave (120 ft
wide), thence northwesterly along said west line of Livernois Ave to south line of Michigan Ave
(100-120 ft wide), thence westerly along said south line of Michigan Ave to the point of beginning.

#2

Beginning at the intersection of the south line of Vernor Hwy (66 ft wide) and the east line of
Riverside Dr (50 ft wide), thence southerly along said east line of Riverside Dr to the north line of
Industrial Ave (90 ft wide), thence southeasterly along said north line of Industrial Ave to north line
of Dearborn Ave (66 ft wide), thence easterly along said north line of Dearborn Ave to the west line
of l-75 (variable width), thence northerly along said west line of l-75 to the north line of Fort St
(100 ft wide), thence northeasterly along said north line of Fort St to west line ofSpringwells Ave
(66 ft wide), thence northerly along said west line of Springwells Ave to south line of said Vernor
Hwy, thence westerly along said south line of Vernor Hwy to the point of beginning.

#3

Beginning at the intersection of the south line of Vernor Hwy (66ft wide) and the east line of
Livernois Ave (66ft wide), thence southeasterly along said east line of Livernois Ave to the north
line of l-75 (variable width), thence northeasterly along said north line of l-75 to the west line of 
Grand (150 ft wide), thence northerly along said west line of Grand to north line
Lafayette Ave (100 ft wide), thence easterly along said north line Lafayette Ave to the center line of
an alley easterly of said Grand and westerly of 25th St (60 ft wide), thence northerly along
said center line of alley to the south line of lot 5 block 3 Hubbard?s Sub, L5 P49 Plats, thence
easterly along said south line of lot 5 block 3 to the line between lots 5 and 6 block 3 Hubbard?s
Sub, L5 P49 Plats, thence northerly along said line between lots 5 and 6, continuing northerly along
the line between lots 15 and 16 and the centerline of lot 8 block 2 Hubbard's Sub, L5 P49 Plats,
to the south line of said Vernor Hwy, thence westerly along the said south line of Vernor Hwy to
the point of beginning.

   
 

Honorable City Council

Council Modi?cations To Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Homestead Areas
April 10, 2019

Page 4 of 5

Modifications to Existing NEZ-H Zones
#1 Eight Mile - Evergreen

Beginning at the intersections of the south line of 8 Mile Rd (204 ft wide) and the east line of the
Telegraph Rd Service Drive, thence southwesterly along said east line of Telegraph Rd Service Drive
to the east line of Telegraph Rd (204 ft wide), thence southerly along said east line of Telegraph Rd
to the north line of Thomas Hitchman?s Sub, L30 P50 Plats, thence easterly along said north line of
Thomas Hitchman?s sub, continuing easterly along the north line of Pembroke Ave (variable width)
to the east line of Shaftsbury (60 ft wide), thence southerly along said east line of Shaftsbury to the
north line of St Martins Ave (60 ft wide), thence easterly along said north line of St Martins Ave to
the west line of Sunderland Ave (86 ft wide), thence northerly along said west line of Sunderland
Ave to the north line of Pembroke Ave (86 ft wide), thence easterly along said north line Pembroke
Ave to the west line of Stahelin Ave (60 ft wide), thence northerly along said west line of Stahelin
Ave to the north line of Hessel Ave (60 ft wide), thence westerly along said north line of Hessel Ave
to the west line of Dachille Sub, L77 P81 Plats, thence northerly along said west line of Dachille Sub
to the south line of8 Mile Rd (204 ft wide), thence westerly along said south line of8 Mile Rd to
the point of beginning.

#2 Joy - Southfield

Beginning at the intersection of the south line of Warren Ave (100 ft wide) and the east line of
Heyden Ave (60 ft wide), thence southerly along said east line of Heyden Ave to the north line of
Ann Arbor Trail (60 ft wide), thence easterly along said north line of Ann Arbor Trail to the east line
of Evergreen Rd (120 ft wide), thence southerly along said east line of Evergreen Rd to the City of
Detroit boundary line at the intersection of the said east line of Evergreen Rd and the north line of
the Ford Rd service drive, thence northeasterly along said City of Detroit Boundary, continuing
northeasterly along the south line of Florence Park Sub, L48 P82, to the intersection of the center
line of Piedmont Ave (60 ft wide) and the center line of Kirkwood Ave (55ft wide), point also being
the northwest corner of Florian Taubitz Sub, L67 P69, thence southeasterly along west line of said
Florian Taubitz Sub to the north line of Altar Rd (150 ft wide), thence easterly along said north line
of Altar Rd to the east line of Artesian Ave (86 ft wide), thence southerly along said east line of
Artesian Ave to the north line of Ford Rd (variable width), thence easterly along said north line of
Ford Rd to the west line of the M-153 ramp, thence northeasterly along said 5 
M-153 ramp to the west line of M-39/Southfield Fwy, thence northerly along said west line of M-
39/Southfield Fwy to the south line of Warren Ave (110 ft wide), thence westerly along said south
line of Warren Ave to the point of beginning.

  
 

Honorable City Council

Council Modi?cations To Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Homestead Areas
April 10,2019

Page 5 of 5

#3 Cadieux - Mack

Beginning at the intersection of the of the southeast line of l-94 (variable width) and the north line
of Farmbrook Ave (60 ft wide), thence northeasterly along said southeast line of l-94 to the south
line of Kingsville Ave (30 ft wide), thence southeasterly along said south line of Kingsville Ave to the
west line of Mack Ave (150 ft wide), thence southerly along said west line of Mack Ave to the north
line of Gateshead Ave (60 ft wide), thence along a straight line connecting the previous point at the
intersection of the said west line of Mack Ave and said north line of Gateshead Ave with the point
of beginning.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'1
NEZ Homesteads 

Proposed Changes

.. TYPE

Modi?ed
- New
I. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 





 

 

1
Gal Park Royal Oak ?mac": Enllpa nfe

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Detroit
Neighborhood Enterprise Zones? (N 

 

Proposed Modi?atinns NEZ Homesteads
Proposed New NEZ Homesteads
Expiring NEZ NewIRehab
:1 NEZ Homesteads



All-n Pm

4-am 2.400 oayior 4.500

Fat Park

