BOARD OF ETHICS

OPEN SESSION MINUTES
JANUARY 18, 2019, 1:05 P.M.
740 North Sedgwick, Suite 500
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT

STAFF PRESENT

William F. Conlon, Chair
Nancy C. Andrade
Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson
David L. Daskal

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT

Steven I. Berlin, Executive Director
Lisa S. Eilers, Deputy Director
Richard Superfine, Legal Counsel
Ana Collazo, Attorney/Investigator
Edward Primer, Program Director
Paully Casillas, Staff Administrator
GUESTS PRESENT

Zaid Abdul-Aleem
Dr. Daisy S. Lezama

Clair Hauser, City Bureau
Drew Horwood
A.D. Quig, The Daily Line
Rachel Naffziger, City Bureau

The guests, Board and staff introduced themselves.

I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to approve the open
session minutes of the Board’s meeting of December 14, 2018, as amended.

II.

CHAIR’S REPORT

III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT
A.

Education
Classes and Other Presentations
Since the Board’s last regularly scheduled meeting, 77 employees and two (2) have
aldermen attended classes here on December 18, and January 8 and 17. There are 72
scheduled for classes on January 29 and February 7 and 19.
All Board classes cover sexual harassment.
On January 7, 2019, staff made a 60 minute presentation to 27 employees in the Civilian
Office of Police Accountability (COPA), at the request of its Director.

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 2
On January 14, 2019, staff made a 90 minute presentation for 65 employees of the Office of
the Inspector General, at his request.
On-line Training
For City employees
All but 26 City employees completed the 2018 required ethics training by the deadline.
After sending probable cause letters to non-completers, as required by law, we
determined that 17 of them violated the Ordinance for failing to timely complete the
training and posted their names yesterday. We assessed no fines, because they all
completed the training within the statutory grace period.
For aldermen
All 50 aldermen completed the training on time.
For appointed officials
We are finalizing a PowerPoint for all appointed officials, including members of this
Board. Currently the sexual harassment section is being reviewed by the Department of
Human Resources, which is revising the City’s EEO Policy, and may include appointed
officials within its ambit. When the program is completed, we will email it to all
appointed officials, and have them complete it, with the Assistance of the Office of
Legislative Counsel and Government Affairs (which is responsible for coordinating the
appointments of all Mayoral appointees/appointed officials). An Ordinance was
submitted to City Council at our request, and at the request of the Mayor’s Office, that
would provide that all appointed officials are subject to the Ordinance’s prohibition
against sexual harassment. The proposed amendment is attached.
For lobbyists
While the 2017-2018 lobbyist training cycle was completed on July 1, 2018, we are
working on the 2018-2019 training program, and I’m pleased to report that several
lobbyists requested and were provided with soft copies of the last training, because they
said it was so helpful.
B.

City Council Educational Initiative/Handbook
In conjunction with the Law and Finance Departments, IG, and members and staff of the City
Council, including representatives from its various caucuses, the Board met January 16 and
February 27, March 27, April 16, and May 21, of 2018 and attended briefings with aldermen
on December 4, 2018 to finalize a “handbook” that will address and provide guidance on
certain issues common to aldermen and their staff; these include some ethics ordinance
issues. The Board, Law Department, and IG are acting under the guidance of the City Council
on this project, in an effort to identify and promote various best practices. The Board
submitted its extensive comments and entries, covering topics from political activity to
social media to recusals.

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 3

C.

Amendments to the Ordinance
I have suggested and had a chance to review and share with legal staff and the Chair the
various drafts of the ethics reform package that the Mayor intends to submit to City Council
on January 23 as they pertain to the Ordinance. We will discuss this, time permitting, in
Executive Session. In addition, this is an opportunity for the Board to propose additional
reforms and amendments to the Ordinance.

D.

Council on Governmental Ethics Laws (“COGEL”)
COGEL’s 2019 annual conference will be here in Chicago, at the Michigan Avenue Marriott in
early December of that year. We will work closely with the current and next Mayor’s Office,
City Council, and Budget Office to ensure a successful conference. We expect about 450
ethics, campaign financing, lobbying, freedom of information, and election administration
officials from across the U.S. and Canada to attend, plus private practitioners and academics.
We are serving on the conference’s program committee, and will be reaching out to various
elected and appointed officials, attorneys, public figures, and media personnel to serve on
panel discussions or otherwise contribute to the Conference. We will co-host the
Conference with our colleagues at the Cook County Board of Ethics, Chicago Board of
Election Commissioners, Illinois State Board of Elections, and Illinois State Executive Ethics
Commission, as well as possibly other local agencies involved in ethics or freedom of
information administration.
As President-elect of COGEL, I also serve on the Program and Host committees, and
continue to Chair the Publications committee. The 2019 Conference is an opportunity to
showcase our agency, our mission, our ethics, campaign financing, lobbying, and election
administration colleagues at the City, County, and State levels. And I am hoping that our
Board members will lend support to make the 41st Conference nonpareil.

E.

Executive Editorship – Public Integrity/Guardian Issue
I am a member of the Executive Editorial Board of the journal Public Integrity, which is
affiliated with the American Society for Public Administration. It is published by Taylor &
Francis six (6) times a year. We are in the midst of a joint project between this journal and
the COGEL Guardian to bridge gaps between academics and practitioners. The first edition
of the 2019 COGEL Guardian will be published around April 15, 2019.

F.

Sister Agency Ethics Officers
We will meet again in March 2019 with our ethics counterparts at other local governmental
agencies: the Cook County Board of Ethics and the Ethics Officers from the Chicago Public
Schools, City Colleges of Chicago, and Chicago Housing Authority.

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 4

G.

2019 Statements of Financial Interests
On or before March 1, notices to about 3,750 City employees and officials will be sent via
email and U.S. first class mail advising them of the requirement to file 2019 Statements of
Financial Interests before June 1. This will include individuals identified by each Ward or
alderman who fall into the definition in the Ordinance of “City Council employee” even
though they are paid as independent contractors. Staff is currently in communication with
every department, ward office and City Council to finalize the list of required filers.
Forms are posted on our website as soon as they are processed by staff – our goal is to have
all filed forms posted within 24 hours of when they are filed. Once posted, they reside on
the Board’s website for seven (7) years from the date of filing, after which they are removed
and destroyed, pursuant to the Board’s Document Retention Schedule kept with the Illinois
Secretary of State and the Local Records Commission of Cook County.

H.

Candidates’ Statements of Financial Interests
Pursuant to §2-156-150(d)(iii), each person who qualifies as a candidate for elected City
office must file a Statement of Financial Interests with the Board within five (5) days after
so qualifying. By following media reports – particularly those by thedailyline.com – Board
staff tracks and notifies each candidate in writing of the filing requirement. To date, 182
known qualified candidates (not including incumbents) for the February 2019 Consolidated
Municipal Election have been notified to file, and 181 have done so; the one (1) who hasn't
has a ballot challenge hearing scheduled before the Board of Election Commissioners. We
post all filed Statements on our website. Two (2) candidates were found in violation of the
Ordinance for failure to file by their deadline, and were fined $250 and $500, respectively.
Their names and violations were posted on our website.
I again want to acknowledge here the fine work of the reporters at thedailyline.com, who
enable us to contact newly declared candidates as they are reported, thereby enabling us to
make candidates’ information publicly available to the electorate.
Note: incumbents also must file, but their forms are posted and searchable through a
different page, and their deadline was before June 1, 2018.

I.

Advisory Opinions
Since the Board’s last meeting on December 14, we have issued 301 informal advisory
opinions. The leading categories were, in descending order: gifts; travel; lobbying; City
property; political activity; campaign financing; and post-employment. The leading City
departments from which requesters came in this period were (in descending order): City
Council; Mayor’s Office; Chicago Police Department; Department of Public Health; Chicago
Public Library; Cultural Affairs and Special Events; Business Affairs and Consumer
Protection; and Chicago Fire Department.
Informal opinions are not made public but are logged, kept, and used for training and future
advisory purposes. (This is the same practice that occurs with our colleagues at the New

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 5
York City Conflicts of Interest Board, who issue roughly the same number of confidential
informal opinions.) They form the basis for much of our annual and periodic educational
programs. Formal opinions are made public, in full text, with names and other identifying
information redacted out.
J.

Summary Index of Formal Advisory Opinions/Text of all Formal Advisory Opinions
Every formal Board opinion issued since 1986 is posted on the Board’s website (902 of
them), redacted in accordance with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions. Redacted
opinions are posted once issued by or reported to the Board. Further, summaries and
keywords for each of these opinions are available on the Board’s searchable index of
opinions. Only a handful of other ethics agencies have comparable research tools.
We are unaware of jurisdictions that make their informal opinions public—though others
issue them confidentially and enable requesters to rely on them in the event of an
investigation or enforcement.

K.

Summary Index of Board-Initiated Regulatory Actions/Adjudications/pre-2013
Investigations
We post the summary index of all investigations, enforcement and regulatory actions
undertaken by the Board since its inception in 1986 (other than those for violations of filing
or training requirements or campaign financing matters). It includes an ongoing summary
of all regulatory actions the Board undertook without an IG investigation.
The Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties it assesses where
authorized by law to do so. There have been, to date, 116 such matters – including two (2)
on today’s agenda – but only in those that occurred after July 1, 2013 can the Board release
the names of those found to have violated the Governmental Ethics Ordinance.
The document makes clear that, despite comments made in the media over the last decade,
the Board has been a robust enforcement agency, hardly a “do-nothing” agency. This
continues through the Board’s ongoing regulatory actions, described above, and with
respect to lobbying and campaign financing, even though the Board no longer has
investigative authority.

L.

Summary Index of Ongoing IG/LIG Investigations/Adjudications
We post and continually update, on our website, an ongoing investigative record showing
the status of every completed investigative report brought to the Board by both the IG (a
total of eight (8) since July 1, 2013) and the former Office of the Legislative Inspector
General (“LIG”), since January 1, 2012, and the status of all 50 petitions to commence
investigations presented to the Board by the LIG. It is updated as appropriate, consistent
with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions.
Whenever the IG presents the Board with a completed ethics investigation in which the IG
believes there have been any violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance, the
procedure that follows is governed by §2-156-385(3) and (4) of the Ordinance: the Board

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 6
reviews the IG’s report, recommendations, and the entirety evidence submitted in its
completed ethics investigation, including a review to ensure that the IG conformed with the
requirement that it complete ethics investigations within two (2) years of commencing
them (unless there is evidence that the subject took affirmative action to conceal evidence
or delay the investigation), and that investigations are commenced within two (2) of the last
alleged act of misconduct.
Then, if the Board finds that the evidence presented warrants a prima facie finding of
probable cause to believe the subject violated the Ordinance, it notifies the subject of the
allegations and affords the subject the opportunity to present written submissions and meet
with the Board, together with an attorney or other representative present. The Ordinance
provides that this meeting is ex parte – no one from the City’s Law Department or IG is
present. Note that the Board may request clarification from the IG as to any evidence
adduced in its investigation before making a probable cause finding (and indeed has done
so). The Board cannot administer oaths at this meeting, but can and does assess the
subject’s credibility and the validity and weight of any evidence the subject provides.
If the subject is unable to rebut the Board’s prima facie probable cause finding, the Board
may enter into a settlement agreement – all settlement agreements are made public – or the
Board or subject may decide to proceed to a merits hearing that is not open to the public.
That hearing would be held before an administrative law judge (ALJ) appointed by the
Department of Administrative Hearings. The City would be represented by the Law
Department (or a specially hired Assistant Corporation Counsel for that purpose), and the
subject by his or her attorney. At the conclusion of the hearing, the ALJ submits his or her
findings of fact and law to the Board, which can accept or reject them, based solely on the
record of the hearing. The Board will then issue a public opinion in which it finds one or
more violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance (or finds none) and impose
appropriate fines.
While this process may appear cumbersome, it was added to the Ordinance and became
effective on July 1, 2013, based on the specific recommendations of the Mayor’s Ethics
Reform Task Force in Part II of its 2012 Report. Its primary purpose is to balance due
process for those investigated by the IG with an accurate and precise adjudication by the
Board of Ethics and the public’s right to know of ethics violations.
On our website, we have a publication that describes this process in detail:
https://www.chicago.gov/content/dam/city/depts/ethics/general/Publications/EnforceProcedures.pdf

Three (3) of these eight (8) IG matters remain pending:
Case No. 18012.IG (corresponding to IG Case #16-0240). On April 16, 2018, the IG
presented the Board with its fifth completed investigation and petition for probable cause.
At the Board’s May 2018 meeting, it dismissed one part of the IG’s petition but made a
prima facie finding of probable cause in the other. The matter involves potential violations
of the Ordinance’s post-employment provisions by a former alderman (the Ordinance’s
post-employment provisions prohibit former aldermen from engaging in lobbying the City
for one year after leaving office). The part of the case dismissed by the Board pertained to
the alderman’s job interviews with a potential post-City employer while that potential
employer had matters pending. The Board found that there was no evidence in the IG’s
investigative record to show that the alderman acted on any matters involving the potential
employer and that the employer had no matters pending before the alderman. The subject’s

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 7
attorneys were present at the July meeting. On the agenda for today’s Board meeting is
approval of a settlement agreement with the former alderman for a $5,000 fine, and a
finding of probable cause against the former alderman’s employer, for employing a lobbyist
who failed to register as required by the Ordinance. The employer is subject to a fine
between $500-$2,000.
In Case No. 18023.IG (corresponding to IG Case #17-0148), the IG presented its completed
investigative report and corroborating evidence on June 20, 2018. The case involves a nowformer employee who, the IG concluded (and identified as a former Water Management
employee), violated the Ordinance by accepting gifts to a Cubs’ post-season game from a
business over which he had official authority, in excess of the Ordinance’s $50 per
source/per year limit, failed to report the gift on his annual Statement of Financial Interests,
and provided advice or assistance on matters concerning City business that were not wholly
unrelated to his City job. The Board made a prima facie probable cause finding at its July
2018 meeting. The Board met with the subject and his attorney on December 14, 2018,
sustained its finding of probable cause and proposed settling the matter with the former
employee for a fine of $500. On today’s agenda are approval of a settlement agreement with
the former employee for a $500 fine, and a finding of probable cause against the gift-giver,
who is subject to a fine between $1,001 - $5,000.
In Case No. 18039.IG (corresponding to IG Case # 17-0082), the final investigative report
was sent to our office on November 30, 2018. The case involves prohibited gifts offered to a
current and a now-former City employee from a City subcontractor. The case is on today’s
agenda for a status report, but staff’s analysis and recommendations as to a probable cause
finding will be presented at the Board’s February 2019 meeting.
Please note finally that, in all matters adjudicated or settled on or after July 1, 2013, the
Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties assessed, or a complete copy of
the settlement agreement.
M.

Disclosures of Past Violations
July 2013 amendments to the Ordinance provide that, when a person seeks advice from the
Board about past conduct, and discloses to the Board facts leading it to conclude that he or
she committed a past violation of the Ordinance, the Board must determine whether that
violation was minor or non-minor. If it was minor, the Board, by law, sends the person a
confidential letter of admonition. If it was non-minor, then, under current law, the person is
advised that he or she may self-report to the IG or, if he or she fails to do so within two (2)
weeks, the Board must make that report.
Since the time this provision (§2-156-070(b)) became effective on July 1, 2013, the Board
has advised three (3) aldermen, two (2) aldermanic staffers, one (1) mid-level City
employee in an operating department, one (1) department head and one (1) former
department head that their past conduct violated the Ordinance. In three (3) of these cases,
one (1) involving an alderman, the second an aldermanic staffer, and the third a former
department head, the Board concluded that the apparent violations were not minor or
technical, and the aldermen and aldermanic staff self-reported to the former Legislative
Inspector General (“LIG”), and the former department head self-reported to the IG. Since
the time that all matters involving the former LIG were consolidated with the IG, the IG has
informed us that it has no record that the LIG ever commenced an investigation in the

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 8
matter involving the alderman, and that the matter involving the aldermanic staff was
closed, apparently without further investigation by the LIG.
As noted above, the Board received a completed investigative report from the IG on May 26,
2017, with a petition for a probable cause finding. The case was based on the Board’s earlier
conclusion that the subject appeared to have committed a past violation of the Ordinance
that was not minor, and then advised the subject of the self-reporting-to-the-IG provisions
in the Ordinance. After the IG investigated and confirmed the Board’s earlier conclusion, the
matter was settled for a $1,500 fine. The agreement is posted on our website.
In the three (3) cases in which the Board determined that minor violations had occurred,
the Board sent confidential letters of admonition, as required by Ordinance.
There is no legal requirement imposed on the IG to report back to the Board on any actions
it takes on matters or persons referred to it by the Board, unless the IG completes an
investigation and submits a petition for a finding of probable cause to the Board based on
that investigation. This is unlike the arrangement in New York City between its Conflicts of
Interests Board and Department of Investigation.
N.

Lobbyists-Regulation and Enforcement
Lobbyists’ annual re-registrations and 4th Quarter activity reports are due before Tuesday,
January 22. All registered lobbyists were notified via email of this deadline on December
20, 2018. To date, there are currently 301 registered lobbyists, and we have collected
$116,975 in registration fees. There are still 4 ½ days for lobbyists to register, and we
anticipate about 750 registrations.

O.

Freedom of Information Act
Since the last regularly scheduled Board meeting, the office received two new requests
under the Freedom of Information Act. The first request was for a copy of a 2011
candidate’s Statement of Financial Interests; the form was located and sent to the requestor.
The second request was for copies of “employment notifications.” After the requestor
explaining what she meant, we responded that we had no records responsive to her
request.

IV.

OLD BUSINESS
1.

Consideration by the Board of the 2019 Schedule of Board Meetings.
The Board deferred consideration of this matter until later in the meeting.

V.

NEW BUSINESS
2.

Discussion of Board-proposed amendments to the Municipal Code

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 9
The Board deferred consideration of this matter until later in the meeting.
At 1:07 p.m., the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to adjourn into
Executive Session under: (i) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1) to discuss the appointment, employment, compensation,
discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public
body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity. However, a meeting to consider an increase in
compensation to a specific employee of a public body that is subject to the Local Government Wage
Increase Transparency Act may not be closed and shall be open to the public and posted and held in
accordance with this Act; (ii) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(4) to hear and discuss evidence or testimony in closed
hearing as specifically authorized pursuant to Governmental Ethics Ordinance Sections 2-156-385 and 392, and the Board’s Rules and Regulations, 4., as amended, effective January 5, 2017, presented to a quasiadjudicative body, as defined in the Illinois Open Meetings Act, provided that the body prepares and makes
available for public inspection a written decision setting forth its determinative reasoning; and (iii) 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(21) to discuss minutes of meetings lawfully closed under this Act, whether for purposes of
approval by the body of the minutes or semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated by Section 2.06.
The guests were excused.
At 1:40 p.m., the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to reconvene into
open session, and the guests were invited to return.
MATTER CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN EXECUTIVE SESSION
VI.

APPROVAL OF THE EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES
The Board confirmed its discussion in executive session, VOTING 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr.
Daisy S. Lezama, absent) in open session, to approve the executive session minutes, of the
December 14, 2018 meeting.

VII.

NEW BUSINESS
Discussion of Board-proposed amendments to the Municipal Code
The Board deferred discussion of this matter, although the Executive Director explained that staff
has been involved in assisting the Mayor’s Office draft its own proposal, which will be introduced
through the Executive Director at the January 23 City Council meeting, along with others that will
likely be introduced by various aldermen.
The Chair addressed the guests and encouraged them and those with whom they communicated to
come forward to bring matters of policy or legal questions to the Board.

VIII.

CASEWORK
A.

Approval of Completed Settlement Agreement with Gift-Recipient; Board
Consideration of Issuance of Probable Cause Finding Against Gift-Giver Pursuant to
§§2-156-385(1)-(3) of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 10
1.

Case No. 18023.IG, Gifts
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to
determine that there was probable cause to conclude that the gift donor in this action
had violated §2-156-142(c) of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance by giving a City
employee a prohibited gift. The Board previously determined that the City employee
violated the Ordinance by accepting a prohibited gift and failing to report it.

B.

Approval of Completed Settlement Agreement with the Lobbyist; Board
Consideration of Issuance of Probable Cause Finding against Person who Retained or
Employed Lobbyist Pursuant to §§2-156-385 of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance
2.

Case No. 18012.1.IG, Post-Employment
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to approve
the completed settlement agreement between the Board and a former alderman who
the Board found there was probable cause to believe had violated §2-156-105(a) of
the Ethics Ordinance by lobbying, within one (1) year of his last day in City office.

3.

Case No. 18012.2.IG, Employment of Unregistered Lobbyist
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to find
there was probable cause to believe that the former alderman’s post-City employer
violated §2-156-305 of the Ordinance by employing a lobbyist who had failed to
register, and to issue the post-City employer a notice of its right to meet with the
Board and rebut the finding. If the person is unable to rebut the finding, the Board
may determine that it violated the Ordinance and impose a fine between $500-$2,000.

C.

Consideration of Board-initiated action for Probable Cause Finding Based on Publicly
Available Documents
4.

Case Nos. 18044.C,1 and 18044.C.2, Improper Influence
Based on public documents available to the Board, the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid AbdulAleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to determine that there is probable cause to
conclude that an alderman violated the Ordinance’s improper influence provision, §2156-030(b), by contacting other City employees and officials or participating in
discussions regarding two distinct matters involving persons from whom the
alderman received compensation in the 12 months prior to the contact, or reasonably
expected to receive compensation in the 12 months following the contacts.
The matters are being handled separately, as they involve different persons and the
elected official’s actions were different in each case.
The alderman is entitled to meet confidentially with the Board and/or present
arguments, documents, or materials to the Board in order to rebut the probable cause
finding. Fines for violation of this section range between $500-$2,000 for each offense.

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 11

5.

Case No. 19008.C, City-owned Property, Prohibited Political Activity
An aldermanic candidate self-reported that electioneering mailings were sent to
voters in the ward showing photographs of the candidate wearing apparel that had
the official City seal emblazoned on it, and also showed a person apparently in a
Chicago Police uniform (but did not display CPD insignia), and a Chicago Fire
Department engine with CFD insignia clearly visible.
By a 4-0 VOTE (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) the Board
determined there is probable cause to conclude that the candidate violated §2-156060 of the Ordinance, and also referred the matter to the Chicago Police and Fire
Departments for action they deem appropriate. The candidate is entitled to meet
confidentially with the Board and/or present arguments, documents, or materials to
the Board in order to rebut the probable cause finding. Fines for violation of this
section range between $500-$2,000 for each offense.

E.

Request for Waiver from the Ordinance’s Post-Employment Restrictions
6.

Case No. 19007.W, Post-Employment
By a 4-0 VOTE (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) the Board issued a
waiver from the Ordinance’s post-employment restrictions to a former employee of
the Department of Public Health, as the waiver is compellingly in the public interest.
The former employee is an expert on treatments for opioid addiction and the waiver
would enable the former employee to work on a project in which that former
employee’s former department would be involved, namely educating hospital
emergency rooms on the latest medical treatments.

F.

Mandatory Online Ethics Training for Officials and Employees – Status Report
7.

Case No. 19000.TR, Mandatory Online Ethics Training
Staff reported that 26 City employees did not complete the annual online ethics
training before January 1 and that seventeen were found in violation. Pursuant to §2156-465(b)(2), staff posted the list of violators on the Board’s website where it will
remain for 30 days.

D.

Dismissed and Referred Complaints
8.

Case No. 19003.C, No Jurisdiction
Staff reported that on January 8, 2019, a private citizen living outside of Cook County
sent the Board of Ethics and the Illinois Department of Financial & Professional
Regulation (“IDFPR”) a letter requesting an investigation regarding collusion between
her attorneys and an insurance company on her personal injury claim. The Board
having no jurisdiction, staff encouraged her to follow up with the IDFPR for assistance.

 Open Session Minutes
January 18, 2019
Page 12

9.

Case No. 19005.C, City-owned Property
Staff reported that on January 8, 2019, the Executive Director received materials from
the Office of Inspector General (“IG”) referring to us a matter they declined to
investigate. The materials included a complaint from a private citizen alleging that a
City employee, who is a candidate for alderman, is using City images/resources in
furtherance of their campaign, which could lead a voter to believe that the City
endorsed that City employee as a candidate for elected City office. Since the Board
does not have the jurisdiction or authority to investigate, pursuant to §2-156-380(a)
of the Ordinance, we referred the IG’s referred complaint to the affected City
Department for action it deems appropriate.

10.

Case No. 19006.C, City-owned Property, Prohibited Political Activity
Staff reported that on January 9, 2019, the Board received a sworn written notarized
complaint and materials from a private citizen, also addressed to the “Office of
Legislative Inspector General,” at the IG’s address. The complaint alleged that an
alderman had violated the Ethics Ordinance’s Prohibited Political Activities provision,
§2-156-135 et seq., by emailing information regarding a re-election bid from the
campaign organization to constituents’ email addresses provided to the ward by
constituents who signed up for a ward weekly email newsletter. Pursuant to §2-156380(a) of the Ordinance, we referred the matter to the IG for any action it deems
appropriate. The IG followed up with a question for clarification, to which the
Executive Director replied that, if the allegations were sustained, there would be
potential violations of the Ordinance, and forwarded the IG information from the draft
Aldermanic Handbook and a link to a New York Advisory Opinion also addressing the
same issue.

IX.

OTHER BUSINESS
None

At 1:55 p.m., the Board voted 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem and Dr. Daisy S. Lezama, absent) to adjourn the
meeting.
bd-minutes-2-22-19-os-f

 