Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council
October 15, 2018
MEETING MINUTES
Dr. Maria Bruni, IDHS Assistant Secretary of Programs, welcomed the group. IDHS/SUPR
continues to work with HFS on the implementation of the four 1115 Waiver substance use
disorder pilot projects. This includes work on the data collection and evaluation component that
will document pilot project effectiveness and cost savings. Provider notices also have been sent
out. For more information on the 1115 Waiver and the pilot projects go to:
https://www.illinois.gov/hfs/SiteCollectionDocuments/BetterCareIllinoisFAQs.pdf.
IDPH Updates
Dr. Nirav Shah, Director of IDPH, introduced Jenny Epstein. Ms. Epstein is the new Director of
Strategic Opioid Initiatives at IDPH. She will be responsible for aligning federal funding that
IDPH receives and applies for with strategies in the State Opioid Action Plan (SOAP). This will
help ensure that federal funds are directed to key initiatives outlined in the SOAP.
IDHS/SUPR Updates
Danielle Kirby, Director of IDHS/SUPR gave the following updates:
 Director Kirby introduced Stephanie Frank, the new Deputy Director of Planning,
Performance Assessment and Federal Projects. Ms. Frank is responsible for the planning
and performance assessment of all Federal Projects, which includes the Substance Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Block Grant (SABG) and the federal money for the Opioid Crisis.
 IDHS/SUPR received it State Opioid Response (SOR) notice of award from SAMHSA. SOR
is for $28.9 million a year for two years. SUPR will hire a SOR resource director who will
identify and coordinate information on opioid-related activities statewide.
SOR funds will expand current STR projects, including the Helpline, jail-based MAT,
naloxone training and distribution, and other services. Three additional Hub and Spoke
projects also will be funded through SOR. Application information on two of the new SOR
projects, Service Enhanced for Pregnant and Postpartum Women with OUD (PPW-OUD)
and Hospital Screening and Warm Handoff is available on SUPR’s Notice of Funding
Opportunity (NOFO) page: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=101591. Applications
are due 11/26/2018 for the PPW-OUD project and 12/3/2018 for the Hospital Screen and
Warm Handoff project. NOFOs for other new projects, including Oxford Houses, MAT
induction centers and digital toolkits to support people in recovery will be released in the
next 4-6 weeks.
Community Naloxone Distribution
Dr. Arvind Goyal, HFS Medical Director, shared information on the three cities in the USA,
including Elk Grove Village, IL, that are making naloxone publicly available (see attached
handout). Council members reported that the Veterans Administration is co-locating naloxone in
heart defibrillation cabinets in its facilities. It was also noted that more naloxone distribution
efforts targeting people who are at very high-risk for overdosing—people who are actively using
opioids, and people recently released from jail and detox—are needed.
Opioid Crisis in Rural and Urban Settings

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council October 2018 Meeting Minutes

1

 Chuck Klevgaard and Dave Closson of Prevention Solutions at the Education Development
Center are working with SAMHSA First Responder- Community Addition and Recovery Act (FRCARA) grantees. FR-CARA grantees are required to provide naloxone training and distribution
to first responders in their communities and establish treatment referral processes and
procedures. Two Illinois FR-CARA grantees gave an overview of their projects, noting
differences in what the crisis looks like in urban and rural counites.
 Heidi Clark described the FR-CARA grant she oversees in 18 counties in south-central
Illinois (see attached handout). This project partners with the Illinois Emergency Alarm
System (ILEAS) to train and distribute naloxone to rural law enforcement officers. ILEAS is
able to track naloxone use and anticipate when more is needed. Challenges include lack of
MAT and barriers to connecting people to treatment. Lessons learned: don’t make
assumptions about rural law enforcement’s opinions about naloxone. Officers in their project
actively ask for help and support with naloxone training and connecting people they rescue
to treatment.
o Dr. Bruni noted that care coordination is a built-in function of all Medicaid MCOs, so
people on Medicaid have access to that care coordination.
o Council members suggested that care coordinators connect people to peer support,
as peers can help people get and stay engaged in treatment.
o The USDA Rural Development Program for Opioid Addiction, Prevention, Treatment
and Recovery toolkit lists several resources that address rural challenges:
https://www.rd.usda.gov/files/Rural%20Development%20Programs%20Opioid%20T
oolkit%20Final2018%201.pdf
 Mila Tsgalis described the FR-CARA project in DuPage County (see attached handout). The
DuPage Narcan Program (DNP) project has three goals: 1) get Narcan into the hands of first
responders; 2) implement a social work model in police departments in order to develop
wraparound services for people who overdose; and 3) increase awareness of drug takeback programs. DNP has trained over 5,000 people on how to use Narcan. Data show that
most Narcan uses occur in homes and apartments. In 2017, 270 opioid reversals were
made; 175 of these reversals were successful (lives saved). Over 52 tons of drugs have
been collected since 2009. The project also is educating people about the Good Samaritan
Law, encouraging business to include naloxone in their first aid kits, and developing
resources for law enforcement based on reversal data. Challenges include lack of MAT
providers in DuPage County and no seamless procedures for getting people who overdose
into treatment. The project is implementing two strategies to address this challenge. The first
strategy is a treatment navigator pilot project that will develop a network of substance use
agencies and a 24/7 central resource to screen and link people to treatment. The second
strategy is a specialty court for first time drug offenders.
o Council members suggested incentivizing primary providers to become DATAwaivered to help address MAT-related challenges.
Safe Passages
Dr. Kathleen Burke, Director of Substance Use Initiatives, Will County Executive Office, gave an
update on the Will County Safe Passage Network (see attached handouts).
 Safe Passage programs deflect people with a substance use disorder (SUD) away from the
criminal justice system. People with SUD can go to police stations and ask for help
accessing treatment without fear of being arrested. Police officers make an immediate
referral to treatment with the help of community providers. Safe Passage programs help
reduce drug-related crime and barriers to treatment. The Will County Safe Passage Network
is overseen by Dr. Burke and has served 50 people to date. Dr. Burke works with each
police department chief to standardize and implement the program.
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council October 2018 Meeting Minutes

2

 

Challenges: Police officers were frustrated when they could not get immediate treatment
referrals and stigma prevents people from seeking services. The Will County Safe Passage
Network created a linkage with Family Guidance Centers (FGC) to ensure that people
referred by the police get into treatment. An FCG care coordinator is on call 24/7 and
performs an assessment based on the American Society of Addiction Medicine criteria to
determine appropriate level of care. The care coordinator identifies the best treatment option
for the participant based on the assessment and does a warm hand-off to ensure that the
participant accesses and receives services. The program is expanding to include recovery
coaches to follow up with participants once they complete treatment. Lessons learned: Find
champions within police departments, train officers on OUD and that recovery is a life-long
process; involve the entire community to help understand the local population and its unique
needs and treatment barriers.
o Council members asked about program eligibility criteria and why people under 18
could not participate without parental consent. It was clarified that under the Illinois
Consent by Minors to Medical Procedures Act individuals over the age of 12 can
consent to treatment and could participate in the program. See:
http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/ilcs/ilcs3.asp?ActID=1539&ChapterID=35 for more
information on the Act.
o ICJIA conducted a process evaluation of Lee County’s Safe Passage program
http://www.icjia.state.il.us/assets/articles/Safe_Passage_Report_100217.pdf. It was
noted that police departments are interested in learning whether participation in Safe
Passage programs reduce recidivism. There are no outcome data to date on this.
o Illinois Senate Bill 3023, Community Law Enforcement Partnership for Deflection and
Substance Use Disorder Treatment Act, was signed into law on August 22, 2018. SB
3023 authorizes and encourages local law enforcement leaders to partner with
treatment and community members on programs that deflect individuals who have
overdosed or who have substance use problems away from the justice system and
into treatment. TASC’s Center for Health and Justice and Council member Danny
Langloss helped initiate this legislation.
http://www2.centerforhealthandjustice.org/sites/www2.centerforhealthandjustice.org/f
iles/publications/SB3023_FactSheet.pdf

The next Illinois Crisis Response Advisory Council meeting will be held on Monday, December
10, 2018 from 1:00-3:00 PM. Please email Brian Pacwa at Brian.Pacwa@illinois.gov if you plan
to attend this meeting. Chicago and Springfield locations are listed below.
Chicago: IDHS – Clinton Building
401 S. Clinton Street
7th Floor, Executive Video Conference Room

Springfield: IDHS – Harris Building
100 S. Grand Avenue East
3rd Floor, Executive Video Conference Room

Call in number: 1-888-494-4032 Access Code: 7298230793#
Council meeting minutes and materials (including handouts from this meeting) can be found on
the Council’s website: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=97186

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council October 2018 Meeting Minutes

3

 