Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council
September 17, 2018
MEETING MINUTES
Danielle Kirby, Director of the Illinois Department of Human Services/Division of Substance Use
Prevention and Recovery (IDHS/SUPR) welcomed the group and introduced Lt. Governor
Sanguinetti. The Lt. Governor continues to attend and speak at opioid-related events across the
state. She will participate in a round table in Kane County on September 26th and is an invited
speaker at the Prairie State College mental health conference in Chicago Heights on September
27th.
IDHS/SUPR Updates
•
•

•

•

•

•
•

Director Kirby announced that Stephanie Frank has been appointed as the new Deputy
Director of Planning, Performance Assessment and Federal Projects.
IDHS/SUPR received notice of award from SAMHSA for its State Opioid Response (SOR)
grant. Several initiatives will be funded via SOR. NOFOs for these projects are being
prepared and will be released soon. One Notice of Funding Opportunity is currently open:
o The Access to Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) – SOR will fund three new Hub
and Spoke projects to provide MAT and recovery supports to unserved MAT deserts.
The NOFO can be found at: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=110580.
Applications are due by 12 PM on October 15, 2018. Please submit any questions you
may have about this NOFO to Joe Tracy at Joseph.Tracy@illinois.gov by September
28, 2018.
As of September 15, 2018, over 9,000 persons with OUD had been served through the
outreach, treatment and recovery support services funded by the Illinois Opioid-STR grant
(see attached report). Go to http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=105980 to read prior
monthly STR project updates.
Strategy 4 in the State Opioid Action Plan (SOAP) is to increase the impact of prevention
programming in communities and schools. A total of 722 cycles of the Youth Prevention
Education program that included a session on opioids have been completed (see attached
summary). This program is provided to 6th-12th grade students. A total 181 schools were
represented. It was noted that it is important to know that total number of schools statewide
that serve 6th-12th grade students in order to understand: 1) the percentage of schools that
participated in the program; and 2) how and why we need to invest in efforts to increase
participation in this prevention programming.
Dr. Maria Bruni, IDHS Assistant Secretary of Programs, acknowledged the passing of Dan
Bigg, co-founder of the Chicago Recovery Alliance. Mr. Bigg changed the way we think
about recovery, harm reduction, and provision of naloxone to people with OUD. He was a
Council member, and he and his important contributions to our work will be missed.
Dr. Bruni reported that IDHS continues to work with HFS on the 1115 Waiver SUD pilot
projects. The monitoring protocol and evaluation plan are due to CMS in December.
Provider notices should be released in the next few weeks.
The Integrated Health Home (IHH) program is a new, fully-integrated form of care
coordination for all members of the Illinois Medicaid population. Each member in the
Medicaid population will be linked to an Integrated Health Home provider based on their
level of need and the provider’s ability to meet those needs. The Integrated Health Home
will be responsible for care coordination for members across their physical, behavioral, and
social care needs. Information on the IHH program, including information on upcoming IHH

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 9/17/2018 Meeting Minutes

1

 webinars can be found at the link below.
https://www.illinois.gov/hfs/MedicalProviders/cc/Pages/IntegratedHealthHomes.aspx
Washington Park Town Hall Meeting
• Dr. Sue Pickett, Advocates for Human Potential, Inc., gave a brief report on the September
8, 2018 town hall meeting held in Chicago’s Washington Park neighborhood. Town hall
meetings are held in racial and ethnic minority communities in order to: 1) learn how the
opioid crisis has impacted these communities; 2) share information about the SOAP with
community members and get their feedback on the SOAP and activities accomplished to
date; and 3) learn from community members what resources and information they need to
deal with the crisis in their neighborhoods. Dr. Pickett led the meeting and gave an overview
of the SOAP. Rosie Gianforte, IDHS/SUPR shared information on naloxone. Sherie
Arriazola, Senior Director, Health Policy & Practice, Safer Foundation provided information
on resources for people with OUD in the criminal justice system.
o Thirteen people attended the Washington Park town hall meeting, held at the Church of
the Good Shepherd. We had a very active, engaged discussion. Meeting participants
shared that their community has a heroin crisis, not a prescription opioid crisis. They
wanted to be sure that IDHS/SUPR and the Council know and understand that heroin
has been a problem in their community, and other Black communities, for many years.
They had heard little about what the State is doing to decrease opioid overdoses.
o Meeting participants are very interested in joining the Council and committees.
However, they noted that it’s hard to get to meetings held in the Loop. Dr. Pickett
encouraged committees to consider holding their next meeting in the community. The
Criminal Justice Populations Committee, for example, will hold their October meeting at
Church of the Good Shepherd.
o The group has requested a naloxone training and will invite their local Chicago Police
Department CAPS officers to attend.
o If you are interested in holding a town hall meeting in your community, please contact
Dr. Pickett at spickett@ahpnet.com.
Committee Reports
Committees have been working on the Task Force’s requests for additional information for
some of their recommendations (see attached document).
• The Prescribing Practices Committee combined the Recommendation 8.3 and 8.4 to read
as follows: Naloxone should be provided, whether by prescription from a physician or under
the Standing Order by a pharmacist, to individuals that have a history of opioid use disorder,
opioid overdose, or moderate to high risk for adverse effect of opioids (i.e., prescribed
opioids greater than 50 MME, impaired hepatic or renal clearance, elderly, moderate to
severe sleep disordered breathing, other co-occurring substance use disorder, concurrent
use of central nervous system depressants such as benzodiazepines or muscle relaxants).
o Dr. Mike Nelson, Prescribing Practices Committee Chair, shared that the committee
agreed that whomever has an OUD as well as those who are at high risk for an
overdose receive naloxone. Pharmacists were included to ensure that high risk
individuals are not missed. Co-prescribing naloxone for prescribed opioids of 50 MME
or higher is recommended based on research that shows that patients who receive 5099 MMEs have a significantly greater risk of overdose.
o Council members noted that naloxone dispensing also needs to be addressed. Four
municipalities, including Elk Grove Village, are installing public naloxone dispensers.
IDHS/SUPS has discussed how to overcome barriers to emergency department
naloxone dispensing. Pilot programs to train family members and friends of people with
OUD how to administer naloxone also were discussed. It was suggested that a one
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 9/17/2018 Meeting Minutes

2

 •

•

•

page handout on the Standing Order and what people (i.e., general public) need to
know to get naloxone from their local pharmacist would be a useful educational tool.
o Dr. Bruni asked the Prescribing Practices to review Senate Bill 336, the Alternatives to
Opioids Act, that Governor Rauner signed into law in August. Patients who are—or who
could be—prescribed opioids will be able to register to obtain medical cannabis as an
alternative. The IDPH and the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional
Regulations (IDFPR) are required to promulgate emergency rules to implement the bill
by December 1, 2018. Dr. Bruni would like this committee to review the bill and develop
recommendations to inform the Council, the Task Force, IDPH and IDFPR. Note: SB
336 can be found at:
http://ilga.gov/legislation/fulltext.asp?DocName=10000SB0336enr&GA=100&SessionId
=91&DocTypeId=SB&LegID=100276&DocNum=336&GAID=14&Session=&print=true)
Ron Vlasaty, Chair of the MAT Committee, reviewed Recommendation 6.2 and noted that
the committee found a wealth of information on OUD treatment (including MAT) and
resources to help providers and organizations become licensed to provide MAT. However,
there are few resources to help providers navigate community logistics, such as information
on what zoning approval is needed to become a methadone provider. The MAT Committee
would therefore like to expand their recommendation and help the State create a
comprehensive tool that includes the information to fully prepare providers to deliver MAT.
o Council members discussed how to overcome barriers related to low reimbursement
rates, such as encouraging physicians to work with FQHCs and creating opportunities
to partner with behavioral health organizations to provide counseling and recovery
support services.
o Rush University Medical Center’s OUD Treatment Fellowship Program will train primary
care providers (physicians, nurse practitioners and physician assistants) in the
assessment and treatment of OUD. This Opioid STR-funded program’s goal is to
increase OUD treatment services in areas of the state that have little or no MAT. The
course is November 17-18, 2018. See attached flyer for more information.
Karel Homrig, Chair of the Public Awareness and Education Committee Report reviewed
Recommendation 3.2 and reported that the committee identified a process for reviewing
resources for non-clinical professionals. This included creating a checklist to ensure that
resources are evidence-based and meet criteria for effective messaging. Several resources
were reviewed; however, few of these resources are for non-clinical professionals who
interact with people with OUD. More work is needed to develop effective messaging on
opioids and naloxone (e.g., defining what an opioid is, educating people about naloxone and
how it saves lives) and to identify new emerging trends in engaging non-clinical
professionals.
o Council members suggested that resources needed to be presented in different formats
to reach the right people. Information on interaction risks with other substances,
especially alcohol, also needs to be made available to this group. Resources on
reducing stigma, safe use spaces and motivational interviewing also were discussed.
Council members are encouraged to send resources to Sue Pickett at
spickett@ahpnet.com.
Carie Bires, Co-Chair of the Children and Families Committee, reviewed Recommendations
4.1 and 6.2 C&F. She reported that the committee reviewed the Illinois Youth Survey (IYS)
opioid-related items and will review similar surveys to identify whether additional items might
be added to the IYS. The committee also formed three workgroups focusing on childcare
assistance resources, youth and family-specific MAT, and family SUD treatment. While the
workgroups identified initial resources, they realized that there are several state agency
groups that are addressing similar issues. Rather than duplicate efforts, the committee is
taking a pause to identify these groups, convene the leaders and begin to work

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 9/17/2018 Meeting Minutes

3

 •

collaboratively. A document inventorying these groups is being distributed to various state
agencies.
Sherie Arriazola, Chair of the Criminal Justice Populations Committee, reported that the
1115 Waiver and other funding has addressed recommendations related to linkage services
for justice-involved individuals with OUD. She announced that the next committee meeting
will be held at the Church of the Good Shepherd (date to be determined). She noted that
many people exiting corrections are returning to the West side of Chicago and are not
getting connected to services. Thus, its critical to get these communities’ input on the
SOAP’s justice-related strategies.
o Dr. Bruni shared that the IDHS/Division of Family & Community Services (FCS) has a
one-stop shop at Lawndale Christian Health Center that helps people apply for
Medicaid and other benefits. She suggested that committees and perhaps the Council
have a meeting there to help us see actual social determinants of health in action and
remind us why we are doing this work.

The next Illinois Crisis Response Advisory Council meeting will be held on Monday, October 15,
2018 from 1:00-3:00 PM. Please email Brian Pacwa at Brian.Pacwa@illinois.gov if you plan to
attend this meeting. Chicago and Springfield locations are listed below.
Chicago: IDHS – Clinton Building
Springfield: IDHS – Harris Building
401 S. Clinton Street
100 S. Grand Avenue East
th
7 Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
3rd Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
Call in number: 1-888-494-4032 Access Code: 7298230793#
Council meeting minutes and materials (including handouts from this meeting) can be found on
the Council’s website: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=97186

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 9/17/2018 Meeting Minutes

4

 