Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council Meeting
May 15, 2017
MEETING MINUTES
Maria Bruni, Assistant Secretary of Programs and Nirav Shah, Director of the Illinois
Department of Public Health (IDPH), welcomed the group. Director Shah thanked Lt. Governor
Evelyn Sanguinetti for attending the meeting. He noted that her office has been actively working
on the opioid crisis. Lt. Governor thanked the group for their own work in this area, and shared
that she and her office have been focusing on the opioid crisis’ impact in Illinois’ rural
communities.
Director Shah gave an overview of the work occurring at the state agency executive level. He
shared that state agency administrators have been meeting for several months to coordinate
and streamline the state’s response to the opioid crisis. The focus of this work has been to
identify common goals and concerns, inventory existing efforts, and identify the areas all
agencies should target and advance.
Assistant Director Don Kauerauf (IDPH), provided more detail on the State Executive Team’s
current efforts. He noted that this group is trying to identify statewide goals that can be linked
together and jointly achieved. Whereas other states have put their goals into distinct categories
or “buckets”, the Team chose to focus on broad topics that can move the state forward in
addressing the opioid crisis in a coordinated way. To that end, the preliminary goals or metrics
the Team have developed focus on prevention and responding to those suffering from opiate
use disorder (OUD). These include:
• Prevention:
o Increase the percentage of pharmacists/prescribers using the PMP
o Decrease the volume of opioids prescribed through education, and potentially,
prescribing guidelines
o Map overdose and death data to track real-time incidents
o Increase availability of information and resources to the public
o Decrease the number of overdose deaths in the first 3-4 weeks after an at-risk
individual’s release from a correctional facility
o Increase the impact of prevention programming in schools
• Addressing the needs of people suffering from an OUD:
o Increase the number of public safety officers who are trained and have access to
naloxone
o Increase the impact of diversion programs statewide
o Increase access to care for individuals with OUD
Assistant Director Kauerauf shared that the next step is to sketch out a statewide strategy – the
Team will develop the framework for the strategy and will reach out to the Council and other
groups at the state and local levels to ensure that what is created is truly a statewide plan.
Given the current state of our opioid crisis, we cannot afford to wait. The Team is creating the
framework; DASA (Sue Pickett/AHP), IDPH (Amanda Kim), and ICJIA (Jessica Reichert) are
developing the draft, and this framework will be completed in the next 60 days. Director Shah
emphasized that the Team truly wants the Council’s feedback and input. He noted that the first
step is focus on what we want to accomplish and change, and then determine what activities
need to be put in place to achieve that change. The Council will be instrumental in determining
those activities.
The group provided the following feedback:
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council – 5/15/2017 Meeting Minutes 1

 •

•
•

There is concern that the American Health Care Act may decrease the amount of funding for
OUD/SUD treatment. It was noted that Governor Rauner’s team in DC has been speaking
with legislators and have made it known that we do not want to leave our residents in a
precarious place in regards to their coverage.
Assistant Secretary Bruni shared that federal resources provided via the Opioid STR grant
will fund several efforts (see attached handout), including expansion of Naloxone training.
Diversion is a term that means different things to different agencies. It was clarified that the
Team is thinking broadly about diversion, and that it includes deflecting people from the
criminal justice system as well as diverting those already in the justice system to treatment.

Committee chairs gave an overview of their work to date (see attached Committee reports).
• The MAT Committee reviewed its goal: Everyone in Illinois who wants and needs MAT
services for OUD has access to it. To help achieve this goal, the MAT Committee
recommends developing and disseminating a user-friendly tool that assists any professional
who wants to prescribe MAT how to do it. Metrics focus on dissemination of the tool and
dissemination results; these metrics target three areas: buprenorphine providers, behavioral
healthcare service providers, and distribution and expansion of MAT. Baseline data can help
identify the current number of MAT providers, where they are geographically and how
increasing the number of MAT providers can increase access to care. Feedback included:
o The importance of linkages to social services and ancillary supports to ensure that
MAT is effective; the proposed tool would do that. Director Shah noted that this
matches the Team’s discussion on providing MAT in conjunction with other services,
and linkages to those services are needed.
o Using recovery in our goals and messaging, for example, medication assisted
recovery (MAR)
o Assistant Secretary Brun shared that the state can assist with data analytics to
determine if access is increasing. This includes potential integration of Medicaid,
PMP and other data to explore changes over time, including geographic changes in
access.
• The Public Awareness and Education Committee’s focus is on raising public awareness of
the opioid crisis and educating the public about how it can play a role in addressing it. In
addition to educating the general public, the committee has prioritized three target
audiences: youth, people with OUD, and people who have been prescribed opiates. The
committee has identified four content areas that they want everyone (i.e., all target
audiences) to know: 1) basic facts about opioids and what they do to the body; 2) Naloxone
and how it can save lives; 3) social and medical access to opioids; and 4) safe use and
disposal of prescription medications. It was noted that the committee’s work aligns with the
Team’s goal to increase accessibility of information and resources to the public; the
committee highly recommends a comprehensive website and use of social media as a
common access point for the four content areas listed above. Metrics currently under
development require data from the PMP, the Illinois Youth Survey and other sources to
understand factors related to opioid access and helping people become educated
consumers when talking with their doctors about opioids. Feedback included:
o The importance of addressing stigma and de-stigmatizing messaging about opioids,
addiction and treatment. This includes general messaging that addiction is a disease,
that treatment works, that the opioid crisis and OUD are health issues, and using
person-first language.
o A single website that is the source of information on prevention and treatment, that is
hope and recovery-based is critical, and can also reduce stigma.
o Incarcerated individuals may not have access to publicly-available information. IDOC
has begun some work in this area, educating inmates at correctional facilities that
provide treatment on MAT and exploring educating all parolees about Naloxone.
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council – 5/15/2017 Meeting Minutes 2

 •

•

•

•

The Prescribing Practices Committee is focusing on three goals: 1) to better understand
prescribing practices in Illinois and relevant practice guidelines for the treatment of chronic
and acute pain and appropriate use of opioids; 2) to gain a fuller understanding of how the
IL PMP works both for prescribers and dispensers of high-risk patients that may benefit from
additional education about access to Naloxone; and 3) to vastly improve education and
awareness around appropriate prescribing of opioids for the treatment of chronic pain. It was
noted that these goals align with those of the Team and that if Illinois does decide to
develop prescribing guidelines, stakeholders need to be included in that process.
Additionally, integrating PMP into electronic health records (EHRs) increases PMP use and
the committee recommends that the Team explore this. PMP data are needed for this
committee to establish its metrics. In short, work of this committee is consistent with the
metrics proposed by the Team to increase use of the PMP and improve education related to
prescribing. Feedback included:
o It is extremely important that stakeholders be involved in developing prescribing
guidelines. Other states—including PA—have done this with excellent results. The
Illinois Health and Hospital Association has begun to create prescribing guidelines
and would welcome a partnership with state agencies.
o Illinois is behind other states in integrating the PMP with EHRs. This is primarily due
to lack of financial and technological resources. Assistant Secretary Bruni noted that
the Opioid STR funds will help support the PMP with EHR integration.
The Criminal Justice Populations Committee’s goals focus on four areas: evidence-based
practices, access to treatment, capacity and education. Goals related to evidence-based
practice seek to identify what works to connect people to treatment and codify evidencebased services (i.e., how does this population access treatment and what services do they
access), and to recommend what works for expansion throughout the state. Access to
treatment focuses on promoting MAT and identifying and reducing barriers to treatment.
Capacity goals recommend that the state implement a quality measure that assesses the
number of people who linked to treatment post-release. Additionally, given that 90% of
justice-involved individuals are Medicaid-eligible, Medicaid is a vehicle to connect this
population to care, and fits with the State’s 1115 waiver that makes pre-release services
Medicaid billable. Education goals focus on embedding education on MAT and its
effectiveness throughout the criminal justice system. Feedback included:
o Lt. Governor Sanguinetti noted that Safe Passage programs appear to be effective in
deflecting people to treatment. ICJIA is currently evaluating the Safe Passage
program in Dixon. It was noted that several counties have these programs but that
these programs lack capacity to serve all who might benefit from them.
The group discussed areas where Committee goals and Team metrics align. These include:
education, diversion, reducing post-release deaths, and prescribing practices. It was noted
that the committee could benefit from data sharing and information to further refine their
metrics.
Gaps that need to be addressed include:
o Educating SUD providers on the effectiveness of MAT
o Looking at holistic models of long-term recovery and what/how the current system
needs to change to achieve MAR. Innovative pilot programs might include telehealth
and web-based programs, training medical residents on addiction.
o Importance of treating people with OUD’s underlying mental health issues. Assistant
Secretary Bruni noted that HFS is moving Medicaid members into integrated health
homes; care coordination via health homes may be able to connect individuals with
needed mental health and primary care.
o Director Shah reported that IDPH will being a pilot program identifying and educating
high prescribers of opioids this summer.
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council – 5/15/2017 Meeting Minutes 3

 o

o
o

DCFS is seeing an increase in youth with heroin addiction. How do we address the
OUD and opiate misuse in adolescents? The group discussed issues related to
defining this age group, their opiate use, specific risks and barriers to treatment and
the use of MAT. The Illinois State Board of Education is exploring how the Every
Student Succeeds Act might look at both how the opioid crisis impacts students’
ability to learn as well as the needs of young people with OUD. The Council
discussed that a fifth committee on that Youth and Families may be warranted.
There is a gap in regard to surveillance of illicit opioids and a need for real-time
clinical analyses of seized drugs, especially fentanyl, to inform EDs and hospitals.
We need to explore how we can strengthen communities so they are more resilient,
and how we can support community organizations and infrastructure in their efforts
to combat this crisis.

Next steps: Assistant Secretary Bruni and Director Shah will share the Council’s feedback with
the State Executive Team. Assistant Secretary Bruni encouraged the committees to work via
email to finalize any metrics and recommendations. The next Council meeting will be held in
early-mid June; date/time are forthcoming.

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council – 5/15/2017 Meeting Minutes 4

 