Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council
August 13, 2018
MEETING MINUTES
Danielle Kirby, Director of the Illinois Department of Human Services/Division of Substance Use
Prevention and Recovery (IDHS/SUPR), welcomed the group and introduced Lt. Governor
Sanguinetti. The Lt. Governor continues to tour the state to talk about the opioid crisis.
Upcoming events include:
•
•
•
•

August 30: Candlelight vigil in Elgin to remember overdose victims
August 31: International Overdose Awareness Day event at Kirby Rehabilitation in Chicago
September 7: Marisa’s Purpose Run to Recovery in Monticello
September 27: Prairie State College mental health conference in Chicago Heights

IDHS/SUPR Updates
Director Kirby shared the following IDHS/SUPR updates:
•

•

•

•

•

•

International Overdose Awareness Day is August 31st. This is a global event held on August
31st of each year that aims to raise awareness regarding the tragedy of overdose and
reduce the stigma of a drug-related death. For downloadable resources regarding Overdose
Awareness Day, go to: https://www.overdoseday.com/resources/downloadable-resources
September is National Recovery Month. Recovery Month spreads the positive message that
“behavioral health is essential to overall health, that prevention works, treatment is effective
and people can and do recover”. For Recovery Month resources, go to:
https://recoverymonth.gov/recovery-month/promote-recovery-month/recovery-month-toolkit.
Council members are encouraged to post any Overdose Awareness and/or Recovery Month
activities to the following websites: https://www.overdoseday.com/register-an-activity/ and
https://recoverymonth.gov/events/post-events. Council members also can notify SUPR
directly regarding planned activities by sending information to Rex Alexander at
Rex.Alexander@illinois.gov.
The Helpline has received over 5,000 calls since its launch last December. It has added
three new features: 1) follow-up calls to Helpline callers to help them navigate any barriers
to the treatment that they were referred to during their initial call; 2) warm transfers that link
Helpline callers directly to treatment programs to help ensure that callers get connected to
providers; and 3) opportunities for callers to provide feedback about their experience with
the Helpline. Additionally, there have been 4,800 hits to the Helpline website, representing
3,000 unique people.
SAMSHA’s State Opioid Response (SOR) grant will provide $28.6 million a year over two
years to Illinois for additional services to address the opioid crisis. SUPR has allocated SOR
funds for three new Hub and Spoke projects targeted to serve individuals in MAT deserts.
Go to http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=110580 to read the Notice of Funding
Opportunity. Applications are due on October 15, 2018. A Bidder’s Conference will be held
on August 23: Go to https://attendee.gotowebinar.com/register/7783764263068268034 to
review information discussed during this webinar.
Two Hub and Spoke pilot projects have been funded via SAMHSA State Targeted
Response (STR) monies. Family Guidance Center in Springfield and Centerstone Services
in Marion won these awards.

IDPH Updates
Director Shah announced that IDPH received $5,000,000 from the Center for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) for 12 discrete opioid-related projects. These projects will address crisis
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 8/13/2018 Meeting Minutes

1

 response, information management, surge management and bio-surveillance. Additional
information on each project will be provided at the September Council meeting. Director Shah
also announced that IDPH plans to hire a replacement for Amanda Kim. Qualifications for this
position include subject matter expertise in the opioid crisis; policy expertise; and grant writing
experience.
Committee Updates
Dr. Sue Pickett shared that the Council Committees have met and begun addressing the Task
Force’s requests for additional information for their respective State of Illinois Opioid Action Plan
(SOAP) recommendations. Committees will share updates on their work at the September
Council meeting.
Problem-Solving Drug Courts
Kelly Gallivan-Ilarraza, Problem-Solving Court Coordinator, Administrative Office of the Illinois
Courts (AOIC), and Judge Charles Burns, Cook County Drug Court, gave a presentation on
problem-solving courts (see attached handouts).
•
•
•

•

Problem-solving courts (PSC) are specially designed courts facilitating intensive therapeutic
treatment to monitor and assist offenders in making positive lifestyle changes and reducing
recidivism. Illinois currently has 108 PSCs; this includes 65 drug/DUI PSCs.
PSCs must adhere to rules and standards to ensure uniformity and compliance with
evidence-based practices. AIOC oversee certification of PSCs and their adherence to best
practice standards.
PSC team members include the judge, state’s attorney, public defender, probation officer,
treatment provider and PSC coordinator. Each PSC has policies and procedures outlining
how a person enters and moves through the program. Validated risk and clinical
assessment tools are used to determine eligibility. PSC include individualized case
management plans designed to promote participant success, phase progression by skills,
incentives, sanctions and therapeutic adjustments, and in drug courts, drug and alcohol
testing. Participants appear frequently before the judge and may spend 12-24 months in a
PSC based on their individual needs. Nationally, drug courts have a 60% success rate.
Judge Burns oversees the Cook County Drug Court, the largest court drug court in Illinois.
He shared how PSCs have helped detour people from prison and given them the resources
and supervision needed to succeed. He discussed the importance of safe housing,
employment and MAT to helping people succeed. Council members are invited to attend
drug court graduation in November.

Rush Substance Use Intervention Team (SUIT)
Dr. Niranjan Karnik, Vice Chair for Innovation and the Cynthia Oudejan Harris Professor in the
Department of Psychiatry at Rush Medical College, gave a presentation on the Substance Use
Intervention Team at Rush Hospital (see attached handouts).
• SUIT is funded in part by IDHS/SUPR via SAMHSA Opioid STR monies. It builds on a prior
SAMHSA-funded Screening, Brief Intervention and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) grant.
The SUIT multi-disciplinary team includes an addiction medicine physician, psychiatric nurse
practitioner, two social workers, an RN clinic coordinator, a clinical pharmacist, addiction
fellow and medical assistant.
• At admission to Rush, patients are asked two screening questions for drug and alcohol use.
These questions are programmed into Rush’s electronic health record (EHR). A positive
response to one question triggers an SBIRT intervention at the patient’s bedside and
subsequent SUIT consult. Since it is often difficult to secure adequate follow-up treatment
for patients when they are discharged, SUIT sees all Rush inpatients who screen positive for
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 8/13/2018 Meeting Minutes

2

 substance use in their addiction medicine clinic. This clinic serves as a bridge clinic for
patients until they can enter their respective payer’s outpatient provider clinic.
• Rush screened over 90% of patients in the first six months of 2018. Patients who had a
SUIT consult had a .83 shorter length of stay than the patients who did not receive a SUIT
consult. Patients who received a SUIT consult had fewer 30-day readmission. Dr. Karnik
noted that this saved Rush Hospital approximately $1,000,000 in inpatient care costs,
making it a strong financial case for hospitals.
• Discussion
o Council members commended SUIT’s warm handoff process, noting that it improves
engagement and treatment retention.
o Replication recommendations include training clinic staff on SBIRT and pairing MAT with
recovery supports.
o A key feature of SUIT is that the EHR “pushes” the screening and consults, rather than
having to wait for clinical staff to assess and address potential patient substance use
issues.
o Rush is exploring the use of telepsychiatry and mobile platforms to encourage broader
support and use of SUIT.
St. Clair/Madison County Prevent Prescription Drug/Opioid Overdose-Related Deaths
(PDO) Report
Donna Nahlik, Director of Prevention Services at Chestnut Health Systems, and PDO Project
Director gave an update on the PDO project in St. Clair and Madison Counties (see attached
handouts).
•
•

•
•
•

•

The PDO project coordinates the purchase, training and distribution of naloxone in two of
Illinois’ highest need counties. It also provides support and education and seeks to help
people with OUD and their families transform their lives.
The project works with two coalitions and includes three workgroups that focus on
education/prevention, treatment/recovery supports and law enforcement. Workgroups meet
monthly. The project also partners with more than 60 local groups and people in recovery.
All major treatment agencies in both counties are participating in the coalitions.
The project’s website (https://partnershipdrugfree.org) includes a local treatment provider
locator. Resource materials – including posters and resource cards – have been developed
and are widely distributed.
The St. Clair County Drug Alliance is a new coalition that began meeting in March 2018 and
includes 15 partner agencies. The goal of this coalition is to reduce youth substance use by
5% and reduce opioid overdose deaths by 25%.
The project trained over 1,200 people in FY18. It also produced 17 short videos that will be
released on social media and the project website. The project also partnered with local
school districts to raise awareness and is working with AdaptPharma to get free Narcan for
local high schools and colleges.
All (100%) of Madison County and 61% of St. Clair County law enforcement agencies have
been trained and carrying Narcan. The project is working with the Collinsville Police
Department on a warm handoff program to connect people who overdose with a peer
recovery support specialist.

Opioid-Related Community Events
•

The Wabash River Dental Society is seeking speaker for its annual meeting, scheduled for
late September/early October. The group would like the speaker to talk about the opioid
crisis, the PMP, guidelines for using opioids in dental practices and screening dental

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 8/13/2018 Meeting Minutes

3

 •

•

patients for opioid misuse. If you are interested in speaking, please contact Sue Pickett at
spickett@ahpnet.com.
The Washington Park Opioid Crisis Town Hall Meeting will be held on Saturday, September
8th from 10 AM – 12 PM at the Church of the Good Shepherd, 225 E.57th Street in Chicago.
Washington Park residents and providers who serve that community are invited to attend
this free event. For more information, contact Sue Pickett at spickett@ahpnet.com
The Perfectly Flawed Foundation is hosting several events in LaSalle County, including
International Overdose Awareness festivities. To learn more about these events, go to:
https://www.perfectlyflawed.org/awareness.html. The organization is hosting a community
education forum that will include information on Dixon’s Safe Passage project on September
12th. For more information, go to https://www.perfectlyflawed.org/community-forum.html

The next Illinois Crisis Response Advisory Council meeting will be held on Monday, September
17, 2018 from 1:00-3:00 PM. Please email Brian Pacwa at Brian.Pacwa@illinois.gov if you plan
to attend this meeting. Chicago and Springfield locations are listed below.
Chicago: IDHS – Clinton Building
Springfield: IDHS – Harris Building
401 S. Clinton Street
100 S. Grand Avenue East
7th Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
3rd Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
Call in number: 1-888-494-4032 Access Code: 7298230793#
Council meeting minutes and materials (including handouts from this meeting) can be found on
the Council’s website: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=97186

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 8/13/2018 Meeting Minutes

4

 