THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT
EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
70 W. Madison, Suite 1925
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the February 14, 2019Meeting of the Legislative Committee
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred
to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call at 9:42 am.
Trustees Present:

Diahann Goode (Chair), Robert DeGraff, John E. Fitzgerald, (participated
by telephone) Dennis White

Staff Present:

Regina Tuczak, Executive Director; Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor;
Gary LeDonne Director, Benefits Administration

It was moved by Trustee DeGraff and seconded by Trustee White, pursuant to Section 7 of the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/7, that Trustee Fitzgerald be allowed to participate by telephone.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

Public Comment (None)
1. Approval of November 1, 2018 Legislative Committee Meeting Minutes
It was moved by Trustee DeGraff and seconded by Trustee White that the presented minutes of the
November 1, 2018, Legislative Committee be adopted.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

2. Review and Consideration of Employee Handbook
The trustees discussed the revisions that had been made to the draft of the Employee Handbook as
discussed at the Committee’s meeting on November 1, 2018. They considered how personal time
off (“PTO”) should be used by Fund employees and other matters. The trustees inquired of and

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
70 W Madison St, Suite 1925   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 discussed the policy utilized by the County for the incremental use of PTO and whether to
implement a similar policy for Fund employees. Staff was requested to confirm the policy used by
County Corporate for the incremental use of PTO to determine whether it could be applied to the
Fund. The trustees also proposed edits to various sections of the draft of the Employee Handbook.
The Fund staff was asked to implement the trustees’ proposed edits and when a final draft is
prepared, it will be subject to review by external counsel prior to submission to the Board.
3. Committee Planning and Schedule for 2019
Regina Tuczak, Executive Director, presented a proposed 2019 planning schedule for the Legislative
Committee which included suggested meeting dates, a schedule for the preparation of general fiscal
policies, and the dates on which the Committee might meet to consider possible legislation for
introduction to the General Assembly in 2020. The trustees also discussed scheduling meeting dates
of the Legislative Committee on the same dates that other committees were meeting so that the
trustees’ schedules might be better accommodated.
The Committee agreed that its next meeting date would be March 21, 2019, at 8:30 a.m. Subsequent
meeting dates were suggested for consideration at the next Board meeting.
It was moved by Trustee White and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the proposed meeting dates of
the Legislative Committee, as revised, be approved.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

4. Legislation Update
a. Discussions with Actuary and Cook County
The Executive Director indicated that she had discussed the legislation approved by the
Board at the February 7, 2019, meeting with the Fund’s actuary, Larry Langer of Cavanaugh
MacDonald Consulting, LLC. The process to receive actuarial input was discussed, noting
that Mr. Langer may have some suggestions in the future, but wanted to withhold comment
until the 2018 valuations are completed. In addition, the legislation approved by the Board
has been provided to Cook County.
b. Review and Consideration of HB 2071
The Executive Director stated that HB 2071 had been introduced which would allow County
employees to purchase service and/or earnings credit for periods of time during which they
had been on furlough. In addition, the legislation provides that an element of the purchase
includes a normal cost calculation. Currently, the Fund does not have the tools to perform a
normal cost evaluation for each person who might apply for service credit as provided by HB

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 2

 2071 and in addition, the information received from the employer does not identify the nature
of an employee’s absence (i.e. furlough, leave of absence, etc.). Thus fund staff cannot
evaluate the overall cost or actuarial liability to the Fund for the proposed legislation.
The trustees discussed how HB 2071 would generally impact the Fund, but could not
determine its economic impact or assess how the benefit would be administered should it be
enacted.
It was moved by Trustee White and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that because the cost of
HB 2071 to the Fund could not be ascertained, the Legislative Committee recommends to the
Board that it oppose the legislation.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

5. Old Business/New Business
There was no discussion of old business or new business
6. Adjournment
There being no further business before the Committee, it was moved by Trustee White and
seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the meeting be adjourned at 11:03 a.m.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
p. 3

 