Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council
May 14, 2018
MEETING MINUTES
Dr. Maria Bruni, IDHS Assistant Secretary of Programs, welcomed the group. Lt. Governor
Sanguinetti reported that the Implementation Report will be released soon and noted that the
Plan is based on and includes Council recommendations. (Note: The Implementation Report
was released on May 31st and can be found at:
http://dph.illinois.gov/sites/default/files/publications/final-soap-implementation-report.pdf).
1115 Waiver Approval
Assistant Secretary Bruni announced that the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS) approved Illinois’ 1115 waiver. The benefits in the 1115 waiver enable Illinois to provide
a higher-value, higher-quality behavioral health system. The waiver is not a grant but rather an
opportunity to use Medicaid dollars differently to increase the efficiency and quality of care for
Medicaid populations. Information about the 1115 waiver can be found the Illinois Department of
Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) website:
https://www.illinois.gov/hfs/info/1115Waiver/Pages/default.aspx and in the Better Care Illinois:
Behavioral Health Initiative Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) document (attached and
available at: https://www.illinois.gov/hfs/SiteCollectionDocuments/BetterCareIllinoisFAQs.pdf.
• The 1115 waiver includes ten pilot projects (see the Better Care Illinois document for a
description of the pilot projects). Four of these projects are related to opioid use disorders
(OUD) and substance use disorders (SUD). These include:
o Residential and Inpatient Treatment for Individuals with Substance Use Disorder
Pilot that will lift the IMD exclusion on residential treatment services;
o SUD Case Management Pilot that will provide case management services for people
with OUD/SUD who are involved in the criminal justice system;
o Peer Recovery Support Service Pilot that will provide peer coaching and recovery
support services to people with OUD/SUD who are receiving SUD treatment; and
o Clinically Managed Withdrawal Management Services Pilot that will expand access
to detox services to people with OUD/SUD and includes induction to MAT.
• The waiver officially starts on July 1, 2018 and will run for up to five years. An important
waiver component involves data collection to document budget neutrality and improved
client outcomes. HFS is working with IDHS/Division of Substance Use Prevention and
Recovery (SUPR) and current SUPR licensed providers on implementation of these pilot
projects. Providers must be licensed/Medicaid certified to provide pilot project services.
• Questions about the waiver can be emailed to HFS.1115pilots@illinois.gov.
Web Survey
Dr. Sue Pickett of Advocates for Human Potential, Inc. (AHP), summarized results of the web
survey that AHP conducted in December 2017 (see attached handouts).
• The survey’s goal was to learn more about what communities across Illinois know about the
opioid crisis and what they are doing to address it. The survey was administered online and
was distributed by Council and Committee members, and professional organizations. A total
of 2,177 people across Illinois completed the survey.
• More than half (51%) of respondents reported that the opioid crisis is a big problem in their
community. Respondents reported that their communities’ biggest needs related to the
opioid crisis include opioid treatment and recovery support services, and public awareness

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 5 14 2018 Meeting Minutes

1

 •
•

•

and education. Similarly, respondents reported that their communities’ greatest gaps and
challenges to address the crisis include lack of funding and treatment services.
Community partnerships, stakeholder involvement and strong leadership were reported to
be particularly strong by IDHS Region 2 survey respondents. Nearly a third (27%) of
respondents reported that they were personally involved in a local workgroup or coalition.
In regard to the State of Illinois Opioid Action Plan, 44% of respondents felt that reducing
opioid deaths by 33% in three years is an achievable goal; 40% of respondents reported
that they “don’t know” if this is an achievable goal. Respondents rated Strategy #6
(increasing access to care) as the most important strategy for their community. IDHS Region
5 respondents rated Strategy #1 (safer prescribing and dispensing) as the most important
strategy for their community.
Survey respondents reported that they primarily heard about opioid-related problems via the
media. Council members discussed the importance of the media in emphasizing positive
information, i.e., that recovery is possible, that treatment is available, that naloxone saves
lives, etc. The digital billboard campaign taking place statewide in June and July will help
convey these messages.

Buprenorphine Prescriber Survey Results and Helpline Updates
Danielle Kirby, Director of IDHS/SUPR, gave an update on the buprenorphine prescriber survey
conducted by SUPR.
• The survey is being administered statewide to DATA-waivered buprenorphine prescribers to
identify: 1) whether they are currently prescribing and 2) barriers to prescribing. Prescriber
information is being provided to the Helpline so that operators can direct callers to active
prescribers. SUPR is at the halfway point in calling prescribers.
o Council members asked whether we knew why some DATA-waivered physicians
have stopped prescribing and what might be done to address this. Results of a
qualitative analysis conducted by Amanda Kim, IDPH Head of Strategic Initiatives,
suggest that DATA-waivered physicians who have stopped prescribing do so mostly
due to lack of treatment support and difficulty coordinating patient management.
Project ECHO and other similar initiatives are providing prescriber education to
DATA-waivered physicians and those who are interested becoming DATA-waivered
to address these issues.
• Director Kirby also announced that the Helpline website will be launching at the end of May.
SUPR licensed providers have been asked to input their information into the website so that
operators have accurate information and can connect callers to substance use treatment
services.
• Council members suggested that Helpline operators ask callers if they know about and have
access to naloxone. Helpline calls provide a good opportunity to increase public awareness
and education about naloxone. Director Kirby agreed that this question could be worked into
the Helpline operators’ protocol. She also noted that there will be a page on naloxone
access on the Helpline website, as well as a list of providers statewide that offer naloxone
training and distribution.
Opioid Media Campaign Update
Karel Homrig, Executive Director of Prevention First, gave an update on the opioid media
campaign (see attached handouts).
• The Ending Opioid Misuse in Illinois campaign (#EOM) has developed and distributed
posters in English and Spanish. Posters and wallet cards have been distributed to and
displayed statewide in community-based organizations, human service provider
organizations, gas stations, convenience stores, FQHCs, and state agencies. In Chicago,
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 5 14 2018 Meeting Minutes

2

 •

•

posters are being displayed in CTA trains. Prevention First has contacted the Illinois Library
Association to help distribute posters in local libraries. The Illinois Department of
Transportation will display posters in all rest areas statewide. As of May 2018, an estimated
13,477,500 people will see an EOM poster in a CTA train and 45,150,300 people will see an
EOM poster in a gas station or convenience store.
To help raise public awareness of the campaign, Council members are encouraged to use
#EOM on all social media posts related to the opioid crisis, and like/retweet @drugfreeIL.
Use of a hashtag (#) in social media is important because it helps people who are interested
in a topic quickly find content on it. By using #EOM in social media posts, we help spread
the word about the campaign and other messages on opioid misuse, prevention and
treatment to people who are interested in these topics. Similarly, use of @drugfreeIL will
connect people to Prevention First’s website where they can receive further information
about opioid misuse, prevention and treatment and EOM resources. For more information
about why the hashtag is important and how to use it, go to
https://smallbiztrends.com/2013/08/what-is-a-hashtag.html.
The Guard and Discard campaign on the safe use and disposal of opioid medications
includes posters, postcards and magnets. Guard and Discard works with prevention
providers to distribute materials.

Omni Youth Services Prevention Programs
Margaret Polovchak and Danielle Brengel, Omni Youth Services, a STR funded subcontractor
under Prevention First’s contract, gave an overview of the STR funded student athlete
education, awareness, and communications project as a part of the Illinois Human Performance
Project (see attached handouts).
• The Illinois Human Performance Project (IL HPP) is also funded by IDHS/SUPR and is a
developing chapter of the national Life of an Athlete Human Performance Project. IL HPP
targets high school students and is designed to educate and hold students accountable to
making healthy life choices regarding sleep, nutrition, substance avoidance, mood, and
leadership in order to achieve optimal performance. Although the national program was
originally designed for athletes, the IL HPP targets all students, not just athletes, to
challenge and empower their peers to set positive standards in health and leadership to
achieve optimal performance. Currently, 11 Illinois high schools are participating in IL HPP.
For more information go to https://ilhpp.org/.
• IL HPP is leveraged using STR funded resources developed for student athletes, their
parents, and coaches that includes the Prescription Playbook, an education and awareness
campaign that provides tips, tools and resources for individuals to make safe and informed
decisions on safe use, safe storage and safe disposal of prescription opioids. The
Prescription Playbook campaign is partnering with the Illinois Athletic Directors Association
and the Illinois High School Association; the campaign is also doing co-branding with EOM.
Research suggests that teens who participate in at least one sport have greater access to
prescription opioids and possible diversion, misuse, and eventual heroin use. Thus, toolkits,
education videos and other resources are being distributed to coaches, student athletes and
parents to help prevent student opioid diversion and misuse. For more information on the
Prevention Playbook go to: https://ilhpp.org/prescription-playbook/.
Discussion
• Council members discussed an editorial in the April 2018 issue of the American Journal of
Public Health. 1 The authors suggest that Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
1

Seth, P., Rudd, R.A., Noonan, R.K., & Haegerich, T.M. (2018). Quantifying the epidemic of prescription
opioid overdose deaths. American Journal of Public Health, 108(4), 500-502.
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 5 14 2018 Meeting Minutes

3

 •

•

estimates of prescription opioid overdose deaths include illicitly manufactured fentanyl (IMF),
which could significantly inflate those estimates. The authors conducted a more
conservative analysis that excluded IMF: that analysis estimates 17,087 prescription opioid
deaths for 2016 (the analysis that includes IMF estimates 32,445 deaths). The authors note:
1) toxicology testing and death certificate reporting make it difficult to distinguish natural,
semisynthetic opioids, methadone and IMF; 2) death rates under both measures remain
alarmingly high; 3) “disentangling” deaths via conservative and traditional estimates could
help support prevention efforts and academic detailing; and 4) authors’ analyses do not
represent the official position of the CDC.
Council members agreed that messaging needs to focus on misuse of prescription opioids,
and not prescription opioids themselves. Prescription opioids are not “bad” and there are
chronic pain and cancer patients who need these medications. Our focus is on the misuse of
prescription opioids, and how misuse can result in fatal overdoses.
The WBEZ Chicagoland Opioid Crisis series that aired in early May can be found here:
https://www.wbez.org/playlists/voices-of-chicagolands-opioid-crisis/dd4e20d4-a3c1-4b0abd20-42261a3480a2

Announcements
• The next Illinois Crisis Response Advisory Council meeting will be held on Monday, June
11, 2018 from 1:00-3:00 PM. Please email Brian Pacwa at Brian.Pacwa@illinois.gov if you
plan to attend this meeting. Chicago and Springfield locations are listed below:
Chicago: IDHS – Clinton Building
401 S. Clinton Street
7th Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
Springfield: IDHS – Harris Building
100 S. Grand Avenue East
3rd Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
Call in number: 1-888-494-4032 Access Code: 7298230793#
Council meeting minutes and materials (including handouts from this meeting) can be found on
the Council’s website: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=97186

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 5 14 2018 Meeting Minutes

4

 