Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council Meeting
March 27, 2017
MEETING MINUTES
Maria Bruni, Assistant Secretary of Programs, and Kim Fornero, Bureau Chief, welcomed and
thanked everyone for attending the meeting. Ms. Fornero noted that the Committees had been
very busy and working at a brisk pace over the past three weeks.
Angie Bailey, Community Benefits Manager for the Southern Illinois Healthcare and Kim
Sanders, Director of the Southern Illinois University’s School of Medicine - Center for Rural
Health and Social Service Development (CRHSSD), presented information on initiatives
underway in southern Illinois. (Presentation handouts are attached).
 Initial work began in 2014 via a forum organized by the Community Behavioral Health
Association of Illinois and CRHSSD. The forum brought together a wide range of
stakeholders and was the first step toward developing a regional action plan to address
the opioid crisis in southern Illinois.
 Three regional planning meetings were convened in 2016 and 2017 to bring
stakeholders from all sectors together on a regular basis, assess current efforts, provide
information and facilitate collaboration and coalition building.
 Thirty-three counties in southern Illinois are involved in ongoing coalition activities and
are discussing and developing action plans. Links to action plans completed to date are
available at: http://crhssd.siu.edu/previous-meetings/
 Strategies counties are focusing on include: expanding public education and build
community partnerships; increasing access to substance abuse treatment; ensuring
responsible prescribing practices; and supporting law enforcement efforts.
 Accomplishments to date include: training law enforcement on Narcan administration,
coordinating care between Shawnee Health Service and Gateway, training providers on
PMP, creation of a youth advisory council at Massac County High School, and increased
community engagement and feelings of empowerment that people can do something to
address the opioid crisis.
 A copy of the community resource guide created by one of the groups can be found at:
http://www.hsidn.org/
 The next regional planning meeting is scheduled for June 6, 2017 in Carbondale.
Following the presentation, the group discussed several topics.
 It is critical for the Council to be aware of regional initiatives, and vise versa. There are
geographical differences in the opioid crisis and resources currently available to address
it. Assistant Secretary Bruni stressed the importance of including work of local and
regional coalitions in the strategic plan. We also want to share information statewide to
make sure efforts aren’t working at cross-purposes. Allison Hasler (IDPH) will send
Southern Regional Coalition information to the Council and will also share Council
information with the Coalition.
 Drug Free Community Support Grants can help support prevention-focused local
coalitions. Go to: https://www.samhsa.gov/grants/grant-announcements/sp-17-001

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council – March 27, 2017 Meeting Minutes
1

 




Prevention First has several good resources that coalitions may find useful. These
include resources on training and technical assistance, and strategic planning. See the
links below for more information.
Link to websites with coalition resources: https://www.prevention.org/ProfessionalResources/Coalitions/
Training offerings: https://www.prevention.org/training/event?ti=1030
Opioid resources: https://www.prevention.org/Virtual-Clearinghouse/Opioid/
One of the key metrics for success for the coalitions has been community readiness and
changes in community attitudes about the opioid crisis.
In addition to ensuring regional representation on the Council, representatives from
managed care organizations (MCOs) should be included, given the state’s move to
Medicaid managed care in 2018.

Discussion related to the committees’ reports addressed several topics.
 The MAT Committee refined its initial goal statement to: Everyone in Illinois who wants
and needs MAT services for opiate use disorder (OUD) has access to it. The action
steps associated with this goal are to 1) develop a user-friendly tool that assists any
professional who want to prescribe MAT with information on how to do it, and 2)
disseminate the tool. The tool will incorporate a recovery approach and emphasize the
importance of linking clients to ancillary recovery support services. Assistant Secretary
Bruni shared that DASA has been working on a report for the legislature that will include
updated mapping of MAT resources. This document will be shared with the Council and
MAT Committee after it has been publicly released.
 The group discussed the importance of being able to locate providers who are actually
prescribing MAT. Many trained providers aren’t prescribing, others aren’t taking new
patients and directories of providers are outdated. The group noted that Alkermes
maintains an updated list of Vivitrol prescribers: https://www.vivitrol.com/find-atreatment-provider. Resources like this could be included in the tool.
 Public awareness and education is a broad topic, and the committee has been focusing
on narrowing down its long list of target audiences and messages to those most
impacted by the opioid crisis. The group discussed the importance of consistent
messaging across statewide campaigns and the need to reach out to the general public
to de-stigmatize the crisis. Ms. Fornero has information on messaging campaigns from
other states; these resources may be useful to help identify some common or standard
messages.
 The Prescribing Practices Committee has refined its goals to better understanding
prescribing practices, improving education and awareness around appropriate
prescribing and dispensing of opioids for the treatment of non-oncologic pain, and
gaining a fuller understanding of the PMP and how it can be more easily and effectively
used. The group shared efforts the VA is undertaking work with state PMPs. Assistant
Secretary Bruni noted that there are many different prescribing guidelines and asked if
an inventory of prescribing practices and guidelines would be useful as an appendix for
the strategic plan.
 According to CDC data, Illinois has had one of the lowest opioid prescribing rates
nationwide. We need to review data to determine where and how these rates can be
further reduced.
 Assistant Secretary Bruni shared that DASA interns can assist committees; chairs
should think about how the interns might help them identify resources, create
inventories, etc.
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council – March 27, 2017 Meeting Minutes
2

 

Similar to public awareness and education, criminal justice population is a very broad
topic. The Criminal Justice Populations Committee is working hard to narrow its goals,
and much of its discussion has focused on deflection. Assistant Secretary Bruni shared
that DASA is submitting an application to the Department of Justice for the
Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Site-based Program
(https://www.bja.gov/funding/CARA17.pdf). DASA is applying for category 4, which
includes criminal justice-focused strategic planning. While Assistant Secretary Bruni
encouraged the committee to focus on one or two sequential intercepts for the statewide
strategic plan, she noted that if DASA wins this DOJ grant funds, goals for additional
intercepts could be included in the criminal justice-specific strategic plan.

Sue Pickett (Advocates for Human Potential, Inc.) gave a brief update on the strategic planning
process. Her team is developing a web-based survey that will be distributed statewide to obtain
stakeholder input on the opioid crisis. Please send suggestions for survey items to her at
spickett@ahpnet.com.
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Council Advisory Committee Meeting Schedule
The upcoming meeting is scheduled from 1:00 until 3:00 p.m. on April 27, 2017 in Chicago and
Springfield. Below please find the exact locations. Phone/conference call and
videoconferencing will be available. The conference call number for all Council meetings is:
888.494.4032, passcode: 4030829754#. Note: The April 10th meeting has been cancelled.
Chicago
Illinois Department of Public Health
69 West Washington, 35th Floor
Suite 3500 - Director's Conference Room
Springfield
Illinois Department of Human Services - Harris Building
100 South Grand Avenue East
3rd Floor - Executive Conference Room
Committee Meeting Schedule
MAT Committee: April 14, 2017, 2:00-4:00 pm, 401 S. Clinton
The other committees are currently scheduling their next meetings.

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council – March 27, 2017 Meeting Minutes
3

 