Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council
April 16, 2018
MEETING MINUTES
Dr. Nirav Shah, Director, IDPH and Dr. Maria Bruni, IDHS Assistant Secretary of Programs,
welcomed the group. Director Shah thanked the Council for their recommendations for
implementing the State of Illinois Action Plan strategies. Director Shah reported that the
Governor’s Task Force reviewed each recommendation in detail. This review included
assessing the ability of the Task Force and state agencies to implement recommendations and
planned implementation activities. Today’s discussion focuses on the Task Force’s review of
each recommendation, progress implementing recommendations and questions to clarify some
of the recommendations. Since the Implementation Plan (see below) is still in progress, it is not
available for public review and no copies of the meeting presentations were distributed.
Task Force Response to Advisory Council Recommendations
• The Advisory Council’s recommendations were submitted to the Task Force in January and
can be found on the Council’s website:
http://www.dhs.state.il.us/OneNetLibrary/27896/documents/CommitteeRecommendationsGo
alandMetricsJanuary122018.pdf
• Implementation of the Action Plan will occur in multiple phases over the next few years.
Council recommendations form the basis of the current Implementation Plan. Director Shah
noted that Implementation Plan is currently in development and planned for release to the
public next month. Actual implementation of activities will occur in multiple phases over the
next few years. The Implementation Plan will be periodically updated with further
recommendations and initiatives developed in collaboration with the Council as activities
progress.
• Director Shah thanked the Council and the Committees for their work developing
recommendations, goals and metrics. He discussed the Task Force’s decision on each
recommendation (accept the recommendation, accept with modifications, or defer). These
decisions are briefly summarized below.
o Accept: Recommendations 1.1, 1.2, 2.2(i), 3.1, 3.2 Children & Families Committee
3.3, 6.1, 7.1, 7.2, 8.5, 9.2, 9.3.
o Accept with modifications: Recommendations 2.1, 4.1,6.1 Children & Families
Committee, 6.2, 7.3, 8.1, 8.2, 9.1
o Defer: Recommendations 2.2(ii), 3.1 Children & Families Committee, 3.2, 6.2
Children & Families Committee, 6.3, 8.3, 8.4
• Director Shah, Assistant Secretary Bruni, Danielle Kirby, Director of IDHS/Division of
Substance Use Prevention and Recovery (SUPR; formerly DASA, see Announcements
below) and Amanda Kim, IDPH Head of Strategic Initiatives shared progress to date on
current implementation activities related to each recommendation.
Discussion
• Recommendation 2.1: Sarah Pointer, Clinical Director the Illinois PMP, reported that the
PMP is in the process of revising administrative rules to expand PMP access to nonlicensed professionals. She invited Council members to join discussions about which nonlicensed delegates should have access to PMP. Please email suggestions to Ms. Pointer at
Sarah.Pointer@illinois.gov.
• Council members asked whether insurance companies could have access to the PMP,
noting that care coordinators work with high utilizers; care coordinators can monitor use via
claims data for those who use insurance to pay for their prescriptions, but they have no way
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 4 16 2018 Meeting Minutes

1

 •

•

•

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

of tracking this data for people who pay by cash. Care coordinators could use PMP
information to help direct people to treatment. Ms. Pointer noted that the PMP is not
opposed to this as long as searches are made for clinical reasons versus denying claims
and preventing people from receiving needed treatment.
Recommendation 2.2: The Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulations
(IDFPR) has presented a proposed bill (SB 2777) to require 10 hours of opioid prescribing
training in order for prescribers to obtain a controlled substance license. See
http://ilga.gov/legislation/fulltext.asp?DocName=10000SB2777sam001&SessionID=91&GA=
100&DocTypeID=SB&DocNum=2777&print=true for more information on this bill.
Recommendations 3.1: Council members stressed the importance of educating the media to
stop using stigmatizing language (e.g., “addict”). It was suggested that the Illinois
Department of Insurance could educate the media by hosting educational videos on
terminology on their website. Council members who are interested in doing a 30-minute
video script were encouraged to send those scripts to Sue Pickett at spickett@ahpnet.com.
Council members noted that parent education on opioid use in teens often occurs via
school-based training. Council members asked whether the Illinois State Board of Education
(ISBE) might conduct an inventory of school-based training programs to better inform
Recommendation 3.1. developed by the Children & Families Committee.
Chronic pain patients need to be included in discussions for recommendations, especially
Recommendations 2.1 and 3.2. Many of these individuals are being forced into withdrawal
because physicians are afraid to prescribe needed opioids. Messaging should include the
needs of chronic pain patients and that they can and should continue to receive prescribed
opioid treatment.
Recommendation 4.1: It was suggested that any items added to the Illinois Youth Survey
(IYS) be clearly operationalized and assess opioid use only. Council members requested
ISBE assistance in encouraging school districts to participate in the IYS.
IDPH has released its opioid data dashboard https://idph.illinois.gov/OpioidDataDashboard/.
Individuals can use the interactive map to see how opioids are affecting Illinois residents at
the state, county and local levels. Council members suggested that the dashboard also
include data on the availability of MAT and pharmacies that provide naloxone.
IDHS/SUPR will use SAMHSA Opioid STR monies to fund two Hub and Spoke pilot projects
in MAT deserts – geographic areas of the state in which residents have limited access to
MAT. The Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) was released on April 30, 2018. Go to
http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=105591 to view the NOFO.
A bidders’ conference call will be held shortly after the NOFO is released. Lessons learned
from the pilots will be used to inform training and replicate the Hub & Spoke and sustain it
outside of STR funding. Council members suggested that Spokes consider using
telepsychiatry and providing warm handoffs for people who present with opioid overdoses in
hospital emergency departments (EDs).
Use of medical marijuana for people with opioid use disorder (OUD) was discussed. It was
noted that this is an overlooked alternative to opioids that has not been explored by the
Council or the Task Force. The Illinois Senate passed SB366 on April 27, 2018. This bill
amends the medical marijuana program to allow those prescribed opioids to use cannabis
instead as an alternative to opioids. For more information see:
http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/BillStatus.asp?GA=99&DocTypeID=SB&DocNum=336&GAID
=14&SessionID=91&LegID=100276
DCFS will begin an inventory of its Foundations training to identify what and how training on
opioids might be incorporated. Council members who are interested in assisting with this
process should email Sam Gillespie at Sam.Gillespie@illinois.gov. Assistant Secretary Bruni

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 4 16 2018 Meeting Minutes

2

 •

•

will follow up with the IDHS/Division of Family and Community Services to explore what child
care assistance supports are available for families of people with OUD.
Recommendation 7.2: Council members discussed bridge services for people deflected by
law enforcement and the need for case management and care coordination within hospital
EDs to help stabilize people who have experienced an opioid overdose and connect them to
outpatient care. The Illinois Hospital Association (IHA) is working with Southern Illinois
University to implement Project ECHO in southern and central Illinois hospitals. This
program will help physicians become DATA-waivered and provide training on how to provide
buprenorphine treatment to people with OUD. IHA emphasizes that this is a community
program and not a hospital program: hospitals are part of the community and can work with
the community and law enforcement to help deflect people to treatment. Assistant Secretary
Bruni suggested that the Committee providing input on Recommendation 7.2 include
hospital EDs in deflection models and that a deflection subcommittee might be useful in finetuning this recommendation.
Next steps: Dr. Sue Pickett will review the Task Force’s decisions and requests for further
input with Committee Chairs. Chairs will share the Task Force decisions with their respective
Committees.

Announcements
• On April 27, 2018, IDHS/DASA officially changed its name from Division on Alcoholism and
Substance Abuse to the Division on Substance Use, Prevention and Recovery (SUPR).
• The next Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council meeting will be held on Monday,
May 14, 2018 from 1:00-3:00 PM. Please email Brian Pacwa at Brian.Pacwa@illinois.gov if
you plan to attend this meeting. Chicago and Springfield locations are listed below:
Chicago: IDHS – Clinton Building
401 S. Clinton Street
7th Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
Springfield: IDHS – Harris Building
100 S. Grand Avenue East
3rd Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
Call in number: 1-888-494-4032 Access Code: 7298230793#
Council meeting minutes and materials can be found on the Council’s website:
http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=97186

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 4 16 2018 Meeting Minutes

3

 