Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council
June 11, 2018
MEETING MINUTES
Dr. Maria Bruni, IHDS Assistant Secretary of Programs, welcomed the group. Dr. Bruni thanked
Amanda Kim, IDPH Head of Strategic Initiatives, for her work on the State of Illinois Opioid
Action Plan (SOAP) and the Implementation Report. Ms. Kim is leaving IDPH on June 29th to
return to her medical school studies at the University of Chicago. We wish her well! Dr. Bruni
also announced Director Norwood’s departure from the Department of Healthcare and Family
Services (HFS). IDHS/SUPR continues to work with HFS on the implementation of the four
1115 Waiver substance use disorder pilot projects. The implementation plan is moving forward
and will be submitted soon to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS).
Illinois Helpline for Opioids and Other Substances Update and Website Demonstration
Jennifer Toth, Associate Director of Information & Referral Services, Health Resources in Action
(HRiA) gave an update on the Helpline (see attached handouts).
• Over 4,000 calls have been made to the Helpline to date since its initial launch in December
2017. The majority of calls are from people who are using opioids and other substances,
versus from family members and/or providers. Beginning July 1st, the Helpline will obtain
consent from callers to follow up with them to learn whether they were able to access and
receive the services that the Helpline referred them to.
• The Helpline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at 833-2FINDHELP. Call center
staff (staff information specialists or SIS) use a conversational approach and motivational
interviewing to assess callers’ needs, provide referrals to treatment and recovery support
services, and help callers navigate the care system. Helpline SIS are certified, receive
clinical supervision, are in recovery themselves and/or have a family member who has an
opioid or substance use disorder (OUD/SUD).
• The Helpline website has officially launched and can be found at https://helplineil.org/. The
website includes an online assessment that directs users to treatment options tailored to
their needs, geographic area and insurance. The website also provides general information
on how to access services, how to find help for someone else (friend, family member, etc.),
and how to stop an overdose. The “how to stop an overdose” page includes information
about naloxone and the Good Samaritan Law. Helpline materials (wallet cards, posters) can
be ordered through the website at https://helplineil.org/app/order.
• The Provider Portal allows treatment providers to update their information in real time.
Information provided in the portal is used to connect website users and Helpline callers to
treatment. IDHS/SUPR will issue a SMART Alert reminding providers to log in and complete,
verify and update their information. Medicaid Managed Care Organization (MCO)
information also will be added so that Helpline SIS can connect callers to their respective
MCO, MCO care coordinator and nurse on call, and MCO-contracted treatment.
• Council members are encouraged to contact IDHS/SUPR Director Danielle Kirby if they
experience problems with the Helpline (phone or website). Please email any issues you
experience with the Helpline to her via Brian Pacwa (Brian.Pacwa@illinois.gov).
• Discussion:
o Council members suggested that when updating information, providers include their
hours of operation (including intake and assessment hours) and the types of insurance
that they accept.
o Police deflection programs may help people connect to treatment. IDHS/SUPR is
working with the Helpline to identify areas of the state that have Safe Passage

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 6/11/2018 Meeting Minutes

1

 programs to help facilitate warm handoffs. Please send information on your Safe
Passage program to Director Kirby.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) Opioid-Related Activities & Work
Toward Opioid Action Plan Goals
Jessica Reichert, Manager, ICJIA Center for Justice Research & Evaluation, gave a brief
presentation on ICJIA’s opioid-related research and training activities (see attached handouts).
• ICJIA’s new publication examines PMP data on opioid prescribing in Illinois:
http://www.icjia.org/articles/opioid-prescribing-in-illinois-examining-prescription-drugmonitoring-program-data
• Preliminary data from ICJIA’s ongoing probation and jail survey on naloxone distribution,
MAT and safe withdrawal shows the following:
o Of the 39 jails that have participated in the survey to date, 56% report that jail staff have
access to naloxone, 80% have a withdrawal protocol (although this protocol varies
across jails), and 28% offer MAT in jail. Cost is the greatest barrier to providing MAT in
jails.
o Of the 20 probation departments that have participated in the survey to date, 70-80%
are familiar with all three forms of MAT (methadone, buprenorphine and naltrexone).
The majority of respondents are open to referring probationers to MAT.
• ICJIA SOAP implementation activities for Strategy #7 (Increase the capacity of deflection
and diversion programs statewide) include research and publications on Safe Passage and
A Way Out programs. Go to: http://www.icjia.org/publications/police-led-referrals-totreatment-for-substance-use-disorders-in-rural-illinois-an-examination-of-the-safe-passageinitiative and http://www.icjia.org/publications/fighting-the-opioid-crisis-through-substanceuse-disorder-treatment-a-study-of-a-police-program-model-in-illinois to download these
publications. In addition to the survey described above, ICJIA implementation activities for
Strategy #8 (Increase the number of number of first responders as well as community
members who are trained and have access to naloxone) include the following publication on
post-overdose response: http://www.icjia.org/publications/exploring-effective-post-opioidoverdose-reversal-responses-for-law-enforcement-and-other-first-responders.
Implementation activities for Strategy #9 (Decrease the number of overdose deaths after an
at-risk individual’s immediate release from a correctional or other institutional facility) include
training and presentations to jail administrators, probation and an ICJIA-sponsored
conference on the criminal justice response to the opioid crisis.
• ICJIA has convened and is leading an Illinois Department of Corrections (IDOC) Working
Group to discuss IDOC practices and policies related to OUD and barriers and needs
related to expanding treatment services. Council members suggested that when working
with IDOC and/or jail administrators on how to implement MAT in corrections settings, ICJIA
should consider working with providers who are currently delivering MAT in prisons and jails.
IDPH Dashboard
Amanda Kim, IDPH Head of Strategic Initiatives gave an update on the IDPH Opioid Data
Dashboard (https://idph.illinois.gov/OpioidDataDashboard/)
• The dashboard now includes a map of naloxone distribution locations statewide. The map
currently includes pharmacies and Overdose Education and Naloxone Distribution (OEND)
programs. IDHS/SUPR Drug Overdose Prevention Programs (DOPPs) will be added to the
map. (Note: Council members suggested changing OEND to DOPP since people are more
familiar with DOPP). IDPH is working on adding drug disposal locations to the dashboard.

Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 6/11/2018 Meeting Minutes

2

 Implementation Plan 2018 Update
Ms. Kim gave the following update on the Implementation Plan.
• The Implementation Report released last month includes the same information that was
presented at the April Council meeting. It does not include any recommendations that the
Task Force deferred or asked the Council for further input.
• Two initiatives that were not Council recommendations were included in the Report. These
include ongoing work by the Department of Insurance to promote the equal treatment and
coverage of mental health and substance use disorders (Initiative 6.5) and IDPH activities
addressing the impact of opioid misuse on women and newborns (Initiative 6.6).
• The Implementation Report is a living document that will be periodically updated as new
recommendations and initiatives are developed and implemented, and current initiatives
move into new phrases and/or are completed. Go to:
http://dph.illinois.gov/sites/default/files/publications/final-soap-implementation-report.pdf to
download a copy of the Report.
Committees’ Reports
• Dr. Sue Pickett, Advocates for Human Potential, Inc. (AHP) reported that each of the
committees (except for Criminal Justice Populations) has met and begun work on their
respective recommendations that needed additional input or information. Dr. Pickett
reminded committee members to provide requested information to their chairs by Monday,
June 18th.
• Please send any questions about the Council and Committees, and/or Council and
Committee meetings to Dr. Pickett at spickett@ahpnet.com. We will be posting questions
and answers on the Council website.
• Dr. Bruni announced that the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation
released its rule on opioid education. Every prescriber who is licensed to prescribe
controlled substances will need to complete three hours of continuing education on safe
opioid prescribing practices. To read the rule, go to:
http://ilga.gov/legislation/fulltext.asp?DocName=10000SB2777enr&GA=100&SessionId=91&
DocTypeId=SB&LegID=109895&DocNum=2777&GAID=14&Session
IDHS/SUPR Announcements
• Director Kirby announced that IDHS/SUPR has posted the Access to Medication Assisted
Treatment (AMAT) Pilot Grant NOFO (http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=105474).
Two Hub and Spoke pilot projects will be funded. Applications are due on June 29th. These
pilot projects are one of several IDHS/SUPR strategies to improve MAT access statewide.
• IDHS/SUPR has learned that it will soon be receiving additional federal monies to address
the opioid crisis via the State Opioid Response (SOR) funding. Additional information will be
provided as it becomes available.
• The next Illinois Crisis Response Advisory Council meeting will be held on Monday, July 16,
2018 from 1:00-3:00 PM. Please email Brian Pacwa at Brian.Pacwa@illinois.gov if you plan
to attend this meeting. Chicago and Springfield locations are listed below:
Chicago: IDHS – Clinton Building
Springfield: IDHS – Harris Building
401 S. Clinton Street
100 S. Grand Avenue East
7th Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
3rd Floor, Executive Video Conference Room
Call in number: 1-888-494-4032 Access Code: 7298230793#
Council meeting minutes and materials (including handouts from this meeting) can be found on
the Council’s website: http://www.dhs.state.il.us/page.aspx?item=97186
Illinois Opioid Crisis Response Advisory Council 6/11/2018 Meeting Minutes

3

 