MEETING OF THE RETIREMENT BOARD
OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND
OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT EMPLOYEES’
ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
70 W. Madison, Suite 1925
Chicago, IL 60602
Minutes for the March 7, 2019, Meeting of the Board
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest Preserve District
Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County are herein collectively referred to as the “Fund.”
Call to Order and Roll Call
Trustees Present:

Robert DeGraff, Jack Fitzgerald, Diahann Goode, Bill Kouruklis, Patrick
McFadden, Joseph Nevius (entered after Item 1a; participated by phone), Kevin
Ochalla, Dennis White, (entered after Item 2c and left after Item 4a; reentered
after Item 6b), Lawrence Wilson

Staff Present:

Regina Tuczak, Executive Director, Brent Lewandowski, Director, Member
Services; Margaret Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor; Gary LeDonne, Director,
Benefits Administration; Michael Maratea, Director of Finance and
Administration; Beverly Romanini, Director, Administrative Services; Jane
Hawes, Director, Health Benefits; Saron Tegegne, Comptroller, Fernando
Vinzons, Director of Investments
Sarah Boeckman, Burke Burns & Pinelli, Ltd.; Martha Merrill, AFSCME C31;
Craig Goesel, Mesirow Insurance Services, Inc., an Alliant-owned company

Others Present:
Public Comment

Trustee Wilson, President of the Board, opened the meeting for public comment and no one having requested to
address the Board, the next item of business on the Agenda was considered.
1. Review and Consideration of:
a. February 7, 2019, Board Meeting Minutes
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the presented minutes of the
Board meeting on February 7, 2019, be adopted.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
70 W Madison St, Suite 1925   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 The Executive Director, Regina Tuczak stated that Trustee Nevius had requested that he be allowed to participate
in the meeting by telephone. After noting that a quorum was physically present, it was moved by Trustee Ochalla
and seconded by Trustee Kouruklis pursuant to Section 7 of the Open Meetings Act that Trustee Nevius be
allowed to participate in the meeting through a telephone conference call connection.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

2. Review and Consideration of:
a. Bills, Payroll Records
It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Goode, having received confirmation
from Fund staff that the presented bills for operating expenses incurred in December, 2018, are to be
allocated to and are consistent with the 2018 administrative budget, and that the presented invoices
for investment management fees for 2018 are consistent with the applicable investment management
agreements, that the Board approve the recommendations from Fund staff to remit payments for such
presented bills.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, Ochalla, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Goode, that the action taken by Fund
staff in remitting the indicated payments for the presented bills and payroll records in February, 2019,
the Board having received confirmation from Fund staff that the payments were consistent with the
approved 2019 administrative budget, that the payments be ratified.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, Ochalla, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Goode, having received confirmation
from Fund staff that the presented bills for operating expenses incurred in March, 2019, are consistent
with the 2019 administrative budget, that the Board approves the recommendations from Fund staff to
remit payments for such presented bills.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, Ochalla, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

b. Annuities, Spouse and Child Annuities and Refunds
The Fund’s staff presented their recommendations to the Board regarding the applications for
annuities, spouse and child annuities, and refunds and confirmed that they followed the Fund’s
procedures in reviewing and processing the applications in making their recommendations.
2

 It was then moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Goode after due consideration of
the applications presented to the Board and having received confirmation from the staff that they
followed the Fund’s procedures in reviewing and processing the applications, that the
recommendations for the presented annuities and refunds be approved.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, Ochalla, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

c. Ordinary and Duty Disabilities
The Fund’s staff presented their recommendations to the Board regarding the applications for
ordinary and duty disability benefits and confirmed that they followed the Fund’s procedures in
reviewing and processing the applications in making their recommendations.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Goode after due consideration of the
disability applications presented to the Board and having received confirmation from staff that they
followed the Fund’s procedures in reviewing and processing the applications, that the
recommendations for the presented disability applications be approved.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, Ochalla, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

3. Trustee Matters
a. Review and Consideration of Revised Proposed 2019 Committee Meetings Schedule
Regina Tuczak, Executive Director, presented the proposed scheduled for committee meetings in
2019. She stated that the schedule attempted to provide for two committee meetings on the same day
to better accommodate the trustees’ schedules. It was noted that the Legislative Meeting scheduled
to convene on Wednesday, March 21, 2019, should have been correctly listed as convening on
Thursday, March 21, 2019.
It was moved by Trustee Ochalla and seconded by Trustee Goode that the Board approve the 2019
Committee Meetings Schedule, as corrected.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

b. Fiduciary Liability Insurance Renewal
Regina Tuczak, Executive Director, stated that she and Fund staff had met with Mr. Craig Goesel of
Alliant/Mesirow Insurance to discuss its proposal for renewing the Fund’s fiduciary liability
insurance policies that will expire on April 23, 2019. She stated that four of the City of Chicago’s
(the City) public pension funds have utilized Alliant/Mesirow’s brokerage services to obtain fiduciary
liability insurance coverage as a coalition and have received savings. Alliant/Mesirow provides the
brokerage services for the four funds at the same time, and each of the individual fund policies are
required to commence and expire on the same dates. Each of the City funds’ fiduciary insurance
3

 policies expire on September 30, 2019. Because the Fund cannot obtain fiduciary insurance for less
than a six-month period, the earliest it could participate with the City funds’ procurement practices
would be September 30, 2020. The Fund would need to renew the policies for seventeen months if it
wanted to be included in the City funds’ procurement by that date. Upon Ms. Tuczak’s request,
Alliant/Mesirow prepared proposals for fiduciary insurance based upon both a twelve month renewal
period and a seventeen month renewal period. In addition, Ms. Tuczak noted that Alliant/Mesirow
has provided a discount to the City funds for their brokerage services and upon her request, such
discount will also be provided to the Fund for the pending renewal.
Mr. Craig Goesel of Alliant/Mesirow then addressed the Board about the fiduciary liability insurance
policy and the procurement process. He stated that the policy covers present and former trustees,
executive directors and employees of the Fund. Alliant/Mesirow approached all appropriate insurers
that provide fiduciary insurance to public employee retirement systems and asked them to provide
proposals for a renewal of the Fund’s current policies; however the number of insurers willing to
provide coverage for Illinois public plans is growing smaller. In response to the trustees’ questions,
Mr. Goesel stated that the funding level for a pension plan impacts the pricing for its fiduciary
insurance policy. He added that the Fund’s primary fiduciary insurance policy with a limit of $10M
and its excess policy of with a limit of an additional $5M together provides an appropriate level of
coverage and is consistent with the limits for other similarly situated City and Illinois funds. He added
that if the Fund were to participate in the City funds’ procurement coalition for fiduciary liability
insurance, it could anticipate savings of approximately five percent. The trustees discussed what
types of matters would be covered by the fiduciary insurance policy and the types of claims that had
been filed on behalf of other pension plans with their respective insurers. They also discussed whether
the Fund should join with the City funds in procuring fiduciary liability insurance
It was moved by Trustee Ochalla and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the Board approve a renewal
of the fiduciary liability insurance policy for a term of seventeen months ending September 30, 2020,
with no deductible, at a premium not to exceed $163,513. It was further moved that Fund staff should
take all reasonable action necessary to effectuate the foregoing including the execution and delivery
of any related written agreement on behalf of the Fund by the Executive Director.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, Ochalla, White,
Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

4. Benefit Matters

a. Benefit Application Consideration – Office #189655
The Executive Director stated that the Member identified by Office Number 189655 had received a
refund of contributions in November, 2012, after separating from County service. He then began
employment with the State of Illinois and made contributions to a reciprocal fund. On or about
February 27, 2015, he repaid the contributions received from the County Fund to restore his service
credit pursuant to Section 9-163 of the Illinois Pension Code. At the time the refund had been repaid,
it appeared that the member was employed by a reciprocal employer. In February, 2019 the Member
applied for annuity benefits from the Fund. During the processing of his annuity application, Fund
staff determined that he was not in service with a reciprocal employer at the time he repaid his
contributions in February, 2015, as required by Section 9-163.
4

 The trustees discussed the process followed by the Fund when members repay contributions to restore
their service credit. Fund staff confirmed that certifications to confirm service dates are sent to
reciprocal funds when members apply for reciprocal annuity benefits, and at the time when
contributions are repaid to restore service credit. However, the reciprocal funds often experience a
timing gap of information from respective employers with respect to employment and service periods.
In this particular case the member was certified active by the other reciprocal system, but the member
had recently left his position with the employer, which was unknown by the other system at the time
of certification.
It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee White that the Board finds that Member
#189655 was not in service within the meaning of Section 9-163 of the Illinois Pension Code when he
repaid the refund of contributions to the County Fund and that the Member was not eligible to have
his service credits restored. It was further moved that the Fund staff should take no action at the
present time regarding the return of the Member’s remittance, however, a letter indicating the Board’s
initial decision be sent to the Member.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, White, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

b. Spousal Application Consideration – Office #89144
The Executive Director stated that a Member identified by Office Number 89144 had died while on
annuity and that a person had contacted the Fund claiming that she was married to the decedent at the
time of his death and wanted to apply for a spouse annuity. The Member had received a refund of
spouse contributions upon his retirement. The applicant for the spousal annuity repaid those
contributions to the Fund, however, she did not provide a marriage certificate showing the date and
place where she and the decedent had been married. The spousal contributions were then returned to
the applicant. She prepared a letter stating that she and the decedent were married in Nevada on
09/10/99, but that she could not locate a certificate of marriage from that State. She asked that her
letter describing her attempts to locate a marriage certificate be presented to the Board.
It was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald and seconded by Trustee Goode that the Board finds that the
applicant for a spouse annuity based upon a marital relation with Member #89144 did not provide
evidence that she was married to such member for at least one year prior to his death and that she is
not eligible to receive a spouse annuity.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, Ochalla, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

5. Administrative Matters
a. Approval of Audit Engagement Letters.
The Executive Director stated that the engagement letters received from Legacy Professionals, LLP,
for the 2018 audits of the County Fund and the Forest Fund, included certain additional fees beyond
the quoted prices in a letter dated July 13, 2015, which detailed audit fees for each of the years 2015
5

 through 2019. While the Executive Director believes that some of the additional fees should have
been identified when Legacy was engaged to perform audits for the years 2015 through 2019, she
recommended that the audits letters be signed on behalf of the County Fund and the Forest Fund, as
all services associated with the additional fees are necessary. Ms. Tuczak also indicated that at the
conclusion of the term of the June 13, 2015, letter, a RFP should be conducted for audit services.
It was moved by Trustee McFadden and seconded by Trustee Goode that the Board approve the
engagement letters from Legacy for the 2018 audits of the County Fund and the Forest Fund and that
the Executive Director be authorized to execute the letters on behalf of each fund.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, McFadden, Nevius, Ochalla, Wilson
None

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

b. Approval of Recommendation of Investment Committee Regarding Amendment to Franklin
Templeton Agreement
The Executive Director stated that the ‘Most Favored Nation” clause in the Investment Management
Agreement (“IMA”) with Franklin Templeton resulted in a reduction of management fees to be paid
by the County Fund. Franklin Templeton began reducing its fees effective October 1, 2018, but
proposed that the IMA be amended to reflect the reduced fee structure. The Investment Committee
considered the proposed amendment at their meeting on February 27, 2019, and recommended that
the Board approve the amendment to the IMA.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the Board approve the
recommendation made by the Investment Committee at their meeting on February 27, 2019, that the
Investment Manager Agreement with Franklin Templeton be amended to provide for a reduction in
management fees as presented and it was further moved that Fund staff shall take all reasonable
action necessary to effectuate the foregoing including the execution and delivery of any related
written agreement on behalf of the Fund by the Executive Director.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

c. Executive Director Report
The Executive Director presented a written report of current and pending matters at the Fund,
including the status of contract matters, vendor activity, a direct deposit initiative, a COLA update
regarding non-Union Cook County employees, upcoming committee meeting dates and the use of
trustee emails. She stated that the report regarding legislative matters would be made later in the
meeting. The Executive Director also reported on the presentation she made to the Pension
Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners on February 19, 2019, that was prepared
with the assistance of Fund staff and the Fund’s external legal, actuarial and health benefits
consultants. She explained that the Commissioners had requested a follow-up to her presentation
regarding legislation supported by the Fund and health benefits costs. With the guidance of external
legal counsel, Ms. Tuczak drafted a proposed response to the Commissioners, with supporting
memorandum, and such material was presented for the Board’s consideration. The Board had a few
suggestions and requested edits to the response, but otherwise directed that such response be sent.
As discussed at the Board meeting on February 7, 2019, the Executive Director prepared suggested
guidelines authorizing the Executive Director to approve administrative expenses, contract renewals,
6

 contract changes and new vendor arrangements for day-to-day operations, up-to certain dollar limits,
and subject to certain conditions (such as inclusion in the current operating budget). Generally, the
authority would allow the Executive Director to provide day-to-day management at the Fund.
The trustees discussed the proposed guidelines as presented and it was moved by Trustee Fitzgerald
and seconded by Trustee McFadden that the Board approve the procurement guidelines regarding the
Executive Director’s authority for administrative expenses for day-to-day operations as presented.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

The Executive Director stated that the Board had requested further information about the invoice
submitted by Simon Consultants, LLC pertaining to the 2018 election. Ms. Tuczak reported that
Simon Consultants was a subcontractor to Simon & Griseta, the Independent Election Administrator.
The services performed by Simon Consultants were not included in the billing statement from Simon
& Griseta. The trustees discussed that contracts with vendors should disclose any subcontractors
retained and whether such subcontractors’ services will be billed separately to the Fund.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee Fitzgerald that the Board approve the
payment of $1,947.50 to Simon Consultants, LLC for services related to the 2018 election.
Roll Call Vote:
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, Kouruklis, Nevius, Ochalla, Wilson
McFadden

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

In the course of the Executive Director’s report, it was discussed that the Fund had remained
open during the recent severely cold weather. The trustees discussed processes other
Government agencies use to determine when weather conditions or other extenuating circumstances
might require an unscheduled closing of the Fund’s administrative offices.
6. Health Matters
a. EGWP Contract Price Improvements – Update on CVS Proposal
Jane Hawes, Director of Health Benefits, stated that the Fund had received improved pricing on the
EGWP contract that had been negotiated through Segal Consulting. Segal will present a financial
analysis of the proposal at the Health Benefits Committee meeting on March 21, 2019.
b. Medicare Education Event Recap
Ms. Hawes also reported that the attendance at the recent Medicare Education Event on February 28,
2019, was at the maximum allowable, despite the inclement weather. She stated that the members
had again provided positive feedback on the presentations given.
7. Legal Matters – Matter of Office #140893
Margaret M. Fahrenbach, Legal Advisor, reported that a member identified by Office Number 140893 had
provided most of the medical records needed to establish her duty disability, but had a gap in the records
needed to support her disablement for the entire period for which she had requested duty disability benefits.
The Board, at an earlier meeting, had allowed the member to request an administrative hearing. Because

7

 there are issues remaining in dispute, staff requested that the Board appoint William Motto to serve as a
hearing officer.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee Kouruklis that the Board appoint William Motto to
serve as a hearing officer to determine whether the member has provided the medical proof needed to
establish her disablement for the period from February 11, 2012, through August 8, 2012, and the Fund retain
Burke Burns & Pinelli, Ltd. to provide legal representation in the administrative hearing.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

8. Legislative Matters
a. Approval of Recommendation of Legislative Committee Regarding HB 2071
The Executive Director stated that HB 2071 would allow participants to purchase service and
earnings credit for any furlough days they were required to take. She added that the Fund did not
have enough information to determine the financial impact of this bill and would have difficulty
administering the terms if it were enacted. The trustees recognized that a financial analysis of the
bill’s impact on the Fund was necessary before it could support any legislation. They also discussed
that the bill should at least be amended to allow the Fund a better opportunity to administer its
provisions. The Legislative Committee had considered the bill at its meeting on February 14, 2019,
and had recommended that the Board oppose its enactment because the financial impact could not be
ascertained.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee DeGraff that the Board oppose the
enactment of HB 2071 regarding the purchase of service and earnings credit for furloughed
employees for the reasons presented and that the Executive Director provide to the Fund’s Legislative
Liaison amendments to the bill that would facilitate administration of the legislation if enacted.
AYES:
NAYS:

DeGraff, Fitzgerald, Goode, McFadden, Wilson, White
Kouruklis, Nevius, Ochalla (as to opposition to bill, but would agree that
Executive Director should provide proposed amendments to Legislative Liaison)

Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED

b. Consideration of Action Regarding HB 2750
The trustees then discussed HB 2750 which restricted elected officials participation in the Fund and
determined that the Board would not take any position on the legislation.
The Executive Director also reported that SB 1264 and HB 2664 would exempt certain state public
pension funds from the Revised Uniform Unclaimed Property Act, but would require the Fund to
report and to tender unclaimed property to the State Treasurer. The trustees discussed the impact of
the legislation on the Fund and authorized the Executive Director to work with the Fund’s Legislative
Liaison for an amendment that would also exclude the County Fund and the Forest Fund.
c. Article 1 and Open Meetings Act Legislation
The trustees discussed the Sustainability Investing Act, HB 2460 and SB 2062, which would require
the Fund to integrate sustainability factors into all aspects of its investment process. Fernando
Vinzons, Director of Investments, reported that Callan Associates, the Fund’s Investment Consultant,
stated that if the legislation were enacted, the Fund may be required to substantially restructure its
8

 portfolio. Additionally, because many managers would not be able to comply with the proposed
legislation, fewer investment opportunities may be available to the Fund.
It was moved by Trustee Goode and seconded by Trustee McFadden that the Board opposes the
enactment of HB 2460 and SB 2062 regarding the Sustainable Investing Act and that its Legislative
Liaison be authorized to present the Board’s position to the members of the General Assembly as
might be appropriate. It was further moved that Board support amendments to HB 2460 and SB 2062
that would permit the Board to review the stated sustainability factors in its investment decisions
within the bounds of financial and fiduciary prudence.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

d. CCPF-Sponsored Legislation – Status
The Executive Director stated that legislation for actuarially required contributions for both the
County Fund and the Forest Fund had been introduced. (HB 2904, SB 1865)
Additionally,
legislation was introduced which would clarify that Cook County could utilize additional funding
sources to make employer contributions. (HB 2903, SB 1300) All of these bills were pending in
committees.
e. Update on Discussion with Cook County
The Executive Director reported that, following the Board’s direction at the meeting on February 7,
2019, she had sent the Fund’s proposed legislation regarding ARC funding and source of funding to
the County’s Chief Financial Officer. In her communication to the CFO, she stated that she was
available to meet and discuss the proposed legislation with him.
The CFO asked the Executive Director to meet with him to discuss the legislation introduced by the
Fund, along with County considerations on a longer-term solution to the funding mechanism. The
Executive Director reported that she, Trustee Goode and Fund staff met with the CFO on February
13, 2019, and that he had presented six strategic long-term goals for the Fund regarding ARC
funding, retiree health care, Tier 2 issues, governance and other matters. The CFO expected that
legislation would be introduced to effectuate the County’s goals. A summary of the six strategic
long-term goals was provided to the trustees.
The Executive Director also reported that the Fund’s Legislative Liaison had been approached by the
County requesting the Fund defer action on its proposed legislation while the County considers
legislation of its own. The trustees discussed that the proposed legislation regarding ARC funding
had been introduced to the current General Assembly and had been introduced in earlier years
because of their fiduciary obligation that the Fund be able to provide the benefits required under the
Pension Code. The trustees were not able to defer action on the proposed legislation because of the
need to obtain a sustainable source of funding.
The Executive Director stated that the CFO was planning to address the Board at the next meeting on
April 4, 2019, to provide further detail on the County’s proposal. The trustees appreciated the
Executive Director’s outreach to the County on these critical issues.
9. Old Business/New Business
There was not old business or new business discussed.
10. Adjournment
9

 There being no further business before the Board, it was moved by Trustee Ochalla and seconded by Trustee
Fitzgerald that the trustees adjourn the meeting.
Vote Result:

MOTION ADOPTED BY VOICE VOTE

The next Board meeting is scheduled for April 4, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.

10

 