Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, March 22, 2019 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim (Substitute Member) and David
Ernesto Munar (3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Mike
Koetting; and Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD

Telephonically
Present:
Director Mary B. Richardson-Lowry (1)
Absent:

Hon. Dr. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC (1)
Chair Reiter, seconded by Director Munar, moved to allow Director RichardsonLowry to telephonically participate in the meeting as a voting member. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Operations
Keiki Hinami, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
Terry Mason, MD – Cook County Department of Public
Health

II.

Kent Ray –Associate General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Robert Sumter, PhD, FACHE – Chief Information Officer
William Trick, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, February 22, 2019
Director Munar, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of February 22, 2019. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, March 22, 2019
Page 2

III. Action Items (continued)
B.

Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)

Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
It was noted that request number 12 is being withdrawn from consideration. Additionally, a minor correction will
be made to one of the account numbers listed under request number 2; the contract number for grant recipient
YWCA Metropolitan Chicago should be listed as H19-25-0038.
During the discussion of request number 9, regarding Cerner Corporation, Director Driscoll suggested, at some
point in the future, that the Committee receive a detailed presentation on the Cerner System. Dr. John Jay
Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, recommended that the administration be given time to take a look in a forward
fashion, with the strategic planning discussions in mind, to put together a presentation that will blend information
on hardware, software and intellectual support. Chair Reiter stated that this presentation should be presented to
the Finance Committee, so it can be reviewed and discussed thoroughly at the Committee level.
During the discussion of request number 7, Chair Reiter inquired whether the linen management services
provided by the vendor can be audited. Mr. Jones responded in the affirmative.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Munar, moved the approval of
request numbers 1 through 21, as amended, with the exception of request number
12, which was withdrawn, and subject to completion of review by Contract
Compliance, where appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Section III

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. 1st Quarter FY2019 Report of Purchases made under the authority of the Chief Executive Officer
(Attachment #2)
Mr. Jones presented the 1st Quarter FY2019 Report of Purchases made under the authority of the Chief Executive
Officer. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
B. Report of emergency purchases (Attachment #3)
One (1) emergency purchase was reported to the Committee.

V.

Report from the Chief Financial Officer (Attachment #4)



Metrics
Financials: January 2019

Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the finance metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, March 22, 2019
Page 3

VI. Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Collaborative Research Unit (CRU) (Attachment #5)
Dr. William Trick, Unit Director, CRU, Department of Medicine, and Dr. Keiki Hinami, Attending Physician,
CRU, Department of Medicine, provided an overview of the CRU presentation, which included information on
the following subjects:












Research at Cook County Health (CCH) – Mission, Areas of Responsibility
Importance of Research
CCH Institutional Review Board (IRB) Mission
IRB Accomplishments
CRU Mission
Research Framework
Examples of Projects
Awards: Completed Projects
Impact 2020 Update – Status and Results
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) Analysis
FY2020-2022 Strategic Planning Recommendations

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Follow-up / Requests:
Follow-up:

Regarding the contract with Cerner Corporation (request number 9), a request/suggestion was
made for the Committee to receive a detailed presentation, blending information on hardware,
software and intellectual services, on the services provided by Cerner. Page 2

Follow-up:

Regarding request number 7, a request was made regarding auditing the linen management
services provided by the vendor. Page 2

 