Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Human Relations Committee
Wednesday, April 24, 2019

11:15 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-2925
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 03/19/2019
19-2394
Sponsored by:
BRANDON JOHNSON, LARRY SUFFREDIN and JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, Cook
County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

BE IT ORDAINED, by the Board of Commissioners of Cook County that Chapter 42 Human Relations,
Section 42-38, of the Cook County Code is hereby amended as follows:
Sec. 42-38. - Housing.

Page 1 of 6

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 24, 2019

(a) Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Conviction means a judgment of liability entered upon a plea, verdict or finding of guilt for an
offense, rendered by a legally constituted jury, court or administrative authority of competent jurisdiction.
Conviction excludes any “juvenile record” as defined below.
Covered criminal history means information regarding an individual’s arrest, charge or citation for
an offense; participation in a diversion or deferral of judgment program; record of an offense that has
been sealed, expunged, or pardoned in accordance with applicable law; juvenile record; and conviction.
Evidence of rehabilitation means any information produced by the individual, or produced on their
behalf, with respect to their rehabilitation or good conduct, including but not limited to: the individual’s
satisfactory compliance with all terms and conditions of his or her sentence; employer recommendations;
educational attainment or vocational or professional training since the conviction; completion or active
participation in rehabilitative treatment; and letters of recommendation from community organizations,
counselors or case managers, teachers, community leaders, religious institutions or leaders, or
parole/probation officers who have observed the individual since his or her conviction.
Individualized assessment means a process by which a person considers all factors relevant to an
individual’s conviction history and whether that history negatively impacts his or her ability to fulfill the
responsibilities of tenancy, including but not limited to:
(1)

The nature, severity,
conviction(s);

and

recency

of

the

conduct

underlying

the

individual’s

specific

(2) The nature of the individual’s sentencing;
(3) The number of the individual’s convictions;
(4) The length of time that has passed following the individual’s most recent conviction;
(5) The age of the individual at the time of the most recent conviction;
(6) Evidence of rehabilitation
(7) The individual’s tenant history before and/or after the conviction;
(8) The extent to which the individual has been open, honest, and cooperative in the examination of
his or her prior convictions

Juvenile record means any information regarding an offense committed or alleged to have been

Page 2 of 6

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 24, 2019

committed by an individual who was under eighteen (18) years of age at the time of the offense or alleged
offense.

Offense means a violation of any penal statute, ordinance, law, or code of any jurisdiction.
Person shall mean any person as defined in Section 46-31(15) of this article that is also an owner,
lessor, sublessor, assignor, managing agent, or other individual, firm, or corporation having the right to sell,
rent, lease, or sublease any housing unit within Cook County, or any agent, broker, or other individual
working on behalf of any such individual, firm, or corporation.
Real estate transaction means the sale, exchange, rental, occupancy, lease, sublease, or lease
renewal of real property for residential purposes in Cook County or the provision of services or utilities in
connection with such sale, exchange, rental, occupancy, lease, sublease, or lease renewal. The term "real
estate transaction" also means with respect to activity conducted or property located in Cook County, the
brokering or appraising of residential real property in Cook County and the making, purchasing, or
guaranteeing of loans or mortgages or providing any other financial assistance either:
(1) For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling; or
(2) Secured by residential real property.
(b) Prohibitions.
(1) Terms and conditions. No person shall make any distinction, discrimination, or restriction in the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any real estate transaction, including the decision to
engage in or renew any real estate transaction, on the basis of unlawful discrimination or
covered criminal history.
(2) Discriminatory communications. No person shall publish, circulate, issue, or display, or cause to
be published, circulated, issued, or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, sign or
other writing of any kind relating to a real estate transaction which will indicate or express any
unlawful limitation or discrimination on the basis of unlawful discrimination or covered criminal
history.
(3) Listings. No person shall deliberately and knowingly refuse examination of any listing of
residential real property within Cook County to any individual because of unlawful discrimination
or covered criminal history.
(4) Representations. No person shall deliberately and knowingly represent to an individual that
residential real property is not available for inspection, sale, rental, or lease in Cook County when
in fact it is available, or fail to bring a residential real estate listing in Cook County to an
individual's attention, or refuse to permit a person to inspect residential real property in Cook
County because of unlawful discrimination or covered criminal history.

Page 3 of 6

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 24, 2019

(5) Blockbusting. No person shall solicit, for sale, lease, or listing for sale or lease, residential real
property within Cook County on the grounds of loss of value due to the present or prospective
entry into any neighborhood of any individual(s) or individuals of any particular race, color, sex,
age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status,
military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status, or with any
covered criminal history.
(6) Encouragement of blockbusting. No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed written
material or statements designed to induce any owner of residential real property in Cook County
to sell or lease such owner's property because of any prospective change in the race, color, sex,
age, religion, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status,
military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status of individuals in the
neighborhood, or because of the presence or prospective entry into the neighborhood of any
individual(s) with any covered criminal history.
(7) Creating alarm. No person shall intentionally create alarm among residents of any community
within Cook County by transmitting communication in any manner, including a telephone call
whether or not conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any person within Cook
County to sell or lease the person's residential real property within Cook County because of the
present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property of any individual(s) or individuals
with any covered criminal history or of any particular race, color, sex, age, religion, disability,
national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge
status, source of income, gender identity, or housing status.
(8) Preemptive inquiries. No person shall inquire about, consider, or require disclosure of covered
criminal history when considering an application for admission to, or continuing occupancy of,
residential real property until the individual has been determined qualified for admission to, or
continuing occupancy of, residential real property and a conditional offer of admission to, or
continued occupancy of, residential real property has been made to the individual.
(c) Exceptions. The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any of the following:
(1) Age. Restricting rental or sale of a housing accommodation to an individual of a certain age
group:
a. When such housing accommodation is authorized, approved, financed, or subsidized in whole
or in part for the benefit of that age group by a unit of State, local, or Federal government; or
b. When the duly recorded initial declaration of a condominium or community association limits
such housing accommodations to individuals 50 years of age or older, provided that an
individual or members of the household of an individual owning or renting a unit in such
housing accommodation prior to the recording of the initial declaration shall not be deemed to

Page 4 of 6

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 24, 2019

be in violation of the age restriction as long as the individual or household member continues
to own or reside in the housing accommodation.
(2) Religion. Limitation by a religious organization, association, or society, or any not-for-profit
institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious
organization, association, or society, of the sale, rental, or occupancy of a dwelling which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to individuals of the same religion, or from
giving preference to such individuals.
(3) Single sex. Restricting the rental of rooms in a housing accommodation to individuals of one sex.
The determination of an individual's sex or gender shall be based upon the sex or gender of that
individual as reflected on any official identification of that individual recognized by the State,
including a driver's license or State identification card.
(4) Private rooms. Rental of a room or rooms in a private home by an owner if the owner or a
member of the owner's family resides therein or, while absent for a period of not more than 12
months, if the owner or a member of the owner's family intends to return to reside therein.
(5) Non-discriminatory interest. Denying the admission to or continuing occupancy of residential
real property on the basis of a current sex offender registration requirement pursuant to the Sex
Offender Registration Act (or similar law in another jurisdiction); a current child sex offender
residency restriction; or a criminal conviction, provided that reliance on the criminal conviction is
necessary to protect against a demonstrable risk to personal safety and/or property of others
affected by the transaction. The Cook County Commission on Human Rights shall promulgate
rules to enforce this exception.
(6) Applicable law. Denying the admission to or continuing occupancy of residential real property on
the basis of covered criminal history when admission or continued occupancy would violate state
or federal law.
(d) Sexual harassment.
(1) No person shall engage in sexual harassment in any real estate transaction.
(2) When used in this subsection, the term "sexual harassment" means any unwelcome sexual
advance, request for sexual favors, or conduct of a sexual nature when:
a. Submission to such conduct is an explicit or implicit term or condition of an individual's real
estate transaction;
b. Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as the basis for any
decision affecting the individual's real estate transaction; or

Page 5 of 6

 Human Relations Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 24, 2019

c. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's real
estate transaction or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment with respect
thereto.
(e) Notice and Opportunity to Dispute Conviction History.
(1) Before an owner may deny admission or continued occupancy on the basis of a conviction, the
owner must first give the individual sufficient notice and an opportunity to dispute the accuracy
and relevance of the conviction.
(2) To comply with Section (1), the owner must:
a. Before denying admission or continued occupancy, provide the individual with a copy of the
tenant selection criteria, a copy of any criminal background check relied upon and an
opportunity to dispute the accuracy and relevance of the conviction(s);
b. Upon denying admission or continued occupancy, notify the individual in writing the reasons
why reliance upon the conviction is necessary to achieve a substantial, legitimate,
non-discriminatory interest.
c. Limit the use or dissemination of information about an applicant’s criminal history obtained in
conjunction with Section (2)(a) to the purpose of evaluating applicants in a manner consistent
with this ordinance. Unless otherwise mandated by law, the owner must keep such information
confidential.
Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption
Legislative History :

3/21/19 - Board of Commissioners - refer to the Human Relations Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Deer
Vice-Chairman: K. Morrison
Members:
Anaya, Johnson, Miller, Sims and Suffredin

Page 6 of 6

 