Forest Preserve District of Cook County
Board of Commissioners
Real Estate Committee
Tuesday, April 23, 2019

9:45 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA
There will be a meeting of the committee or subcommittee of the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County Board of Commissioners at the date, time and location listed above.
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-0239
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 3/19/2019
19-0185
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): The Illinois State Toll Highway Authority

Page 1 of 3

 Real Estate Committee

Request:

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 23, 2019

Authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to enter into

an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority (the “Tollway”).
Goods or Services:

Proposed permanent and temporary easements, tree removal, and partial closure of

the John Husar I & M Canal Trail.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period:

Construction period and temporary easement from 5/1/2019 - 12/31/2023. The

permanent easement continues indefinitely.
Fiscal

Impact:

$979,616.00 (Revenue

Generating).

This

amount

represents

the

following:

(1)

Permanent and Temporary easements - $736,226.00 (appraised value); (2) tree mitigation (estimate for 56
trees)- $143,390.00, and (3) additional contribution for trailhead amenities and trail patching $100,000.00.
In-kind contribution by Tollway via trail and parking lot rehabilitation has an estimated value of
$950,000.00.
Accounts: N/A
District(s): 17
Summary:

The Tollway is scheduled to reconstruct the existing I-294 bridge over the Des Plaines River,

Chicago Sanitary & Ship Canal, I & M Canal, BNSF Rail Yard, CN Railroad, and several local roadways
(the Mile Long Bridge). The proposed new structure will impact two (2) Forest Preserves leased
properties and one (1) property owned by the Forest Preserves and will require granting of 15.246 acres
of permanent easement and 0.499 acre of temporary easement.
Impacts to land owned or leased by the Forest Preserves will include closure of approximately 1.5 miles
of the John Husar I & M Canal Trail east of Willow Springs Road for approximately five (5) years and
removal of approximately fifty-six (56) trees in the area where the new bridge will be constructed.

A

culvert will also be constructed into the I & M Canal.
The Forest Preserves will be compensated for the easements based on the Forest Preserves’ appraised
value, which is $736,226.00. The Forest Preserves will also be compensated for tree removals in the
permanent easement area, with an estimated value of $143,390.00. In addition, the Tollway will make a
payment of $100,000.00 to the Forest Preserves for certain trailhead amenities, including restroom
renovations, new interpretive signs and patching of non-impacted portions of the I&M Trail.
The Tollway will also provide the following in-kind contributions: (1)

vegetation management of the

impacted portion of the John Husar I & M Trail while the trail is closed to public use; (2) fabrication and

Page 2 of 3

 Real Estate Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 23, 2019

installation of temporary informational signs on the trail and on-street directional signage between the I &
M Canal, Centennial Trail, and Cal Sag Trail; and (3) at the conclusion of the project, rehabilitation of the
impacted portion of the John Husar I & M Canal Trail, and, to ensure ADA compliance, rehabilitation of
the non-impacted portion of the John Husar I & M Canal Trail east of Willow Springs Road, the trailhead
parking lot and the access paths and sidewalks to the washrooms.
Final agreement is subject to legal review and approval.
Legislative History :

3/19/19 - FPD Board of Commissioners - refer to the Real Estate Committee

Secretary
Chairman:
Moore
Vice-Chairman: K. Morrison
Members:
Committee of the Whole

Page 3 of 3

 