FOREST PRESERVE DISTRICT OF COOK COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

BOARD AGENDA
Tuesday, April 23, 2019, 10:00 AM

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
PRESIDENT

19-0233
Sponsored by: TONI PRECKWINKLE (President), Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of
Commissioners
PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

TITLE 3 - POLICE REGULATION, CHAPTER 1 - POLICE FORCE
BE IT ORDAINED, by the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners, that Title

3 - Police Regulations, Chapter 1 - Police Force of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Code of
Ordinances is hereby amended as follows:
3-1-1: - POLICE FORCE ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.

There is hereby established a police force to be known as a Police Force.

The Police Force of the

District shall consist of: of police members who shall constitute the regular Police Force of the District.
A. The President and members of the Board of Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District,
the officers and heads of various departments and divisions of the District, who shall be known
as "Deputy" Police.
B. Police members who shall constitute the regular Police Force of the District.
3-1-2: - COMMAND; RULES AND REGULATIONS.

Page 2 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

The entire force for police duty, either emergency or general, shall be under the command of the General
Superintendent Chief of Police who shall make such rules and regulations for the government and
discipline of the police as he may consider necessary and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of the
rules and regulations established by the District Board of Commissioners for the government and
regulation of the officers and employees of the District and of such ordinances as may be from time to
time passed by the Board of Commissioners.
3-1-3: - OATH OF OFFICE.

All members of the regular Police Force shall, before they enter on the duties of their

respective offices,

take and subscribe to the following oath or affirmation before the Clerk of the County Court of Cook
County or the District’s Chief of Police or such Chief of Police’s designee:
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the
duties of the office (insert here name of office, etc., etc.,) according to the best of my ability."
The General Superintendent Chief of Police shall cause a permanent record to be kept of said oath of
office. The appointment of any person to any office in the regular Police Force, with the exception of
Emergency Police, shall not be deemed complete until the foregoing
that person has been awarded, within six months of his
attesting to his or her successful completion
Course as prescribed by the
been awarded a

oath of office is subscribed to unless

or her initial full-time employment, a certificate

of the Minimum Standards Basic Law Enforcement Training

Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board (“ILETSB”); or has

certificate attesting to his or her satisfactory completion of a training program of similar

content and number of hours and which course has been found acceptable by ILETSB; or by reason of
extensive prior law enforcement or county corrections experience the basic training requirement is
determined by ILETSB to be illogical and unreasonable.
State Law reference- S.H.A. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
3-1-4: - POWERS AND DUTIES.

***
B. Arrest Powers: All members of the Police Force, as specified in Section 3-1-1 hereof, shall have
power and are hereby severally authorized to arrest and it shall be the duty of the members of the regular
Police Force to arrest, on view, with or without process, any person
the territory under the jurisdiction of the District Board of
Preserve District, or law of the State of Illinois,

found in the act of violating, within

Commissioners, any ordinance of the Forest

or aiding or abetting in such violation, and shall take all

Page 3 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

such persons so arrested before the
such court is in session, the
or safe place

April 23, 2019

nearest court of competent jurisdiction in the District. In case no

persons so arrested may be detained in any police station within the District,

provided for such purpose by the Commissioners of the Forest Preserve District, until such

person so arrested can be brought before such court for trial without unnecessary delay and exercise
police powers over the territory within the District for the preservation of the public peace, and the
observance and enforcement of the ordinances and laws, such as are conferred upon and exercised by
the police of organized cities and villages; but such police force, when acting within the limits of any city
or village, but outside the territory owned,
District has easement rights,

leased, or licensed by the District and property over which the

shall act in aid of the regular police force of such city or village and shall

then be subject to the direction of its chief of police, city or village marshals, or other head thereof.
C.

Arrests: Every person under arrest shall be treated kindly and humanely by the police officer making

the arrest, and by those police who are in charge of such person.
State Law reference- S.H.A. 70 ILCS 810/15.
3-1-5: - RETURN OF PARAPHERNALIA.

***
3-1-6: - PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS POLICE TRAINING ACT.

The Forest Preserve District hereby elects to participate in the program provided for in the Illinois Police
Training Act.
Before an individual may commence regular employment as a Forest Preserve police officer, he must
have been certified by the Illinois Local Governmental Law Enforcement Officers' Training Board as
having successfully completed an approved training course as provided in the Act. Such basic training
must be completed by the trainee as soon as practical.
(1989 Code)
State law reference - S.H.A. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
3-1-7: - EMERGENCY PRESERVE POLICE.

In case of emergency, the General Superintendent is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint
Emergency Police and such Emergency Police shall have the same powers and authority as the regular
members of the Police Force; provided, that such appointments shall in no case continue for more than
forty-eight (48) hours.

Page 4 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

(1989 Code)
3-1-86: - RESISTING, IMPERSONATING POLICE.

***
3-1-97: - POLICY ON USE OF FORCE-CHOKE HOLDS PROHIBITED.

***

Effective date: This ordinance shall be in effect immediately upon adoption (or give specific

date)
COMMISSIONERS

19-0241
Sponsored by: JOHN P. DALEY, LARRY SUFFREDIN, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, BRIDGET
GAINER, LUIS ARROYO JR., SCOTT R. BRITTON, BRANDON JOHNSON, STANLEY MOORE,
BILL LOWRY, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI and
DEBORAH SIMS, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE CHICAGO BOTANIC GARDEN WAIVE THE
PARKING FEE FOR VETERANS OF THE U.S. ARMED FORCES ON MEMORIAL DAY
AND VETERANS DAY

WHEREAS, the Chicago Botanic Garden is one of the great living museums and a renowned
conservation science center located in Cook County.
WHEREAS, more than one million people visit the Garden's 27 gardens and four natural areas
annually, which are uniquely situated on 385 acres on and around nine islands, with six miles of lake
shoreline; and
WHEREAS, the Chicago Botanic Garden has a long history of assisting veterans that dates back to the
Chicago Horticultural Society and today the Garden serves veterans through its horticultural therapy
programs and through the Windy City Harvest urban agriculture training program; and
WHEREAS, the Chicago Botanic Garden also offers internship programs for veterans and host events
designed to provide veterans the training and services needed to reintegrate into civilian life and
Page 5 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

successfully obtain future employment; and
WHEREAS, in gratitude to our veterans for their service the Chicago Botanic Garden provides free
parking to active duty U.S. military personnel and/or their families, reservists, and former POWs for
their years of service; and
WHEREAS, complimentary access to parking at the Garden for all veterans of the United States
Armed Forces on Memorial Day and Veterans Day will ensure more veterans are able to access the
healing environment of the Garden on a more frequent basis; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Forest Preserves District Board of
Commissioners requests that the Chicago Botanic Garden extend complimentary parking to all veterans
of the United States Armed Forces on the following holidays as observed by the Chicago Botanic
Garden: Memorial Day and Veterans Day; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this
Honorable Body and that a suitable copy be tendered to any veterans’ organizations or organizations
that assist veterans in Cook County upon request.
19-0242
Sponsored by: JOHN P. DALEY, LARRY SUFFREDIN, JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI, LUIS ARROYO
JR., SCOTT R. BRITTON, BRIDGET GAINER, BRANDON JOHNSON, BILL LOWRY, STANLEY
MOORE, KEVIN B. MORRISON, SEAN M. MORRISON, PETER N. SILVESTRI and DEBORAH
SIMS, Forest Preserve District of Cook County Board of Commissioners
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION REQUESTING THE CHICAGO ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY WAIVE THE
PARKING FEE AT THE BROOKFIELD ZOO FOR VETERANS OF THE U.S. ARMED
FORCES ON MEMORIAL DAY AND VETERANS DAY

WHEREAS, the Brookfield Zoo is a world-renowned zoo that inspires guests through extraordinary
connections with animals, nature and each other; and
WHEREAS, the Brookfield Zoo is set within a 216-acre nature park and has captivated and educated
visitors since 1934 and is home to 2,000+ animal residents and is also an accredited arboretum; and
WHEREAS, the Brookfield Zoo is open every day and welcomes more than two million guests yearly.
It is managed by the Chicago Zoological Society and sits on land owned by the Forest Preserves of
Cook County; and
Page 6 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

WHEREAS, the Brookfield Zoo has a long history of serving veterans through programs such as VA
Hospital Connections, Wounded Warrior Project and USO “Tickets for Troops” Program; and
WHEREAS, the Brookfield Zoo host veterans events including an annual Veterans Day ceremony; and
WHEREAS, in gratitude to military members and veterans for their service the Brookfield Zoo
provides free admission to active duty U.S. military personnel and veterans every day of the year; and
WHEREAS, complimentary access to parking at the Brookfield Zoo for all veterans of the United
States Armed Forces on Memorial Day and Veterans Day will ensure more veterans are able to access
the healing environment of the Brookfield Zoo on a more frequent basis; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Forest Preserve District Board of
Commissioners requests that the Chicago Zoological Society extend complimentary parking at the
Brookfield Zoo to all veterans of the United States Armed Forces on the following holidays as
observed by the Chicago Zoological Society: Memorial Day and Veterans Day; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this text be spread upon the official proceedings of this
Honorable Body and that a suitable copy be tendered to any veterans’ organizations or organizations
that assist veterans in Cook County upon request.
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL SUPERINTENDENT

19-0184
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Planning and Development
Other Part(ies): Village of Niles, Illinois
Request:

Authority for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to enter into an

Intergovernmental Agreement (“IGA”) with the Village of Niles, Illinois (“Niles”).
Goods or Services:

Niles is requesting an IGA to provide a connection to the North Branch Trail,

extending from a proposed bike path on the north side of Touhy Avenue, and continuing east to Caldwell
Avenue. The IGA includes terms allowing Niles to install a new sidewalk on the south side of Touhy

Page 7 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

Avenue, from Harts Road to Caldwell Avenue.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Perpetual, subject to termination after twenty (20) years
Fiscal Impact: None

$26,356.75 (waived)

License Fee:
License Application Fee:

$3,000.00 (waived)
$6,300.00 (waived)

YELAR Fee:
Tree Mitigation Fee

$38,969.89

Accounts: N/A
District(s): 13
Summary:

Cook County.

The Forest Preserves operates and maintains the North Branch Bicycle Trail in Northern
Niles proposes to construct trail connections to connect residents and businesses to the trail

as part of a larger bike and pedestrian improvement program. Niles will be responsible for design,
construction and future maintenance costs associated with the project. Eight (8) trees on Forest Preserves
land are proposed to be removed. Niles will pay a Tree Mitigation Fee of $38,969.89. The license fee,
license application fee, and the YELAR fee will be waived, per the usual practice for trail connection
project requests from municipalities. There is no cost to the Forest Preserves. Niles has funding for the
design and construction of the trail segments. The IGA constitutes a license for Niles to construct and
maintain the trail in perpetuity, subject to termination by the Forest Preserves after twenty (20) years.

19-0213
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE REQUEST
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”), as Licensor
to grant a License to the Illinois State Archaeological Survey (“ISAS”), a subset of the University of
Illinois, Grantee, to locate, operate and maintain approximately 200 square feet of workspace in the

Page 8 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

property commonly known as Rolling Knolls Pavilion, 11N260 Rohrssen Road, Elgin, Illinois. ISAS
provides technical support and guidance for the Forest Preserves to maintain compliance with state
archaeological resource laws. ISAS also provides expertise for assessing our cultural resources and
provides interpretation of the history of Cook County for public displays and events. Its location at Rolling
Knolls provides better access to the Forest Preserves for technical projects, and a venue for public
outreach programs.
Term: Date of execution through 12/31/2022
License Fee:

$0.00

License Application Fee: $0.00
YELAR Fee: Waived

Total one-time upfront fee of N/A for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: N/A
The area of the License is: Approximately 200 square feet of workspace in the property commonly
known as Rolling Knolls Pavilion, 11N260 Rohrssen Road, Elgin, Illinois.
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Grantee has met the insurance requirements under the License Agreement.
The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed this license application and plans and have found them to be
acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserves of Cook County Board of
Commissioners approve the issuance of this license.
District(s): 15

19-0215
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
REQUEST APPROVAL TO EXERCISE CONTRACT RENEWAL OPTION
Department(s): Facilities and Fleet Maintenance
Vendor: Black Dog Petroleum, LLC (formerly Black Dog Corporation), Lyons, Illinois

Page 9 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

Request:

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

Authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to extend and

increase contract
Good(s) or Service(s): Diesel and Unleaded Fuel
Original Contract Period: 4/1/2018 - 4/30/2019 with two (2) one-year optional renewals
Proposed Contract Period Extension: 5/1/2019 - 4/30/2020
Total Current Contract Amount Authority: $1,200,000.00
Original Approval: 3/13/2018, $1,200,000.00
Previous Increase(s): N/A
This Increase Requested: $1,200,000.00
Estimated Fiscal Impact: FY 2019 $750,000.00, FY 2020 $450,000.00
Accounts: Automotive, Operation, and Maintenance 51001.540250
Contract Number(s): 1684-15558 CC
Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

The Vendor
participation.

has

met

the

Minority-

and

Women-owned

Business

Enterprise

Ordinance

District(s): Districtwide
Summary: On 3/21/2019, the Cook County Board of Commissioners approved a contract amendment to
exercise their option to extend and increase the current contract managed by the Cook County
Department of Transportation and Highways. The Forest Preserves piggybacked onto Cook County’s
contract at our 3/13/2018 Board meeting and would like to also exercise an option to extend and increase.

19-0217
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent

Page 10 of 22

via

direct

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

EASEMENT REQUEST
Request: Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to
grant
permanent and temporary easements to the Chicago Department of Transportation (“CDOT”) at
Foster Avenue and the northbound Edens Expressway on-ramp at LaBagh Woods Forest Preserve.
CDOT is requesting 0.019 acre of permanent easement and 0.029 acre of temporary easement or 825
square feet of permanent easement and 1,279 square feet of temporary easement.
Reason:
CDOT requests a permanent easement for sidewalk construction and temporary easement for
grading purposes in conjunction with intersection improvements on Foster Avenue at the northbound
on-ramp for the Edens Expressway. The intersection improvements are part of a $60 million retail
development project on the south side of Foster Avenue. The intersection improvements include turn
lanes, traffic signals and crosswalks. The new sidewalk, signals, and crosswalks will provide improved
pedestrian access to LaBagh Woods.
Easement Fee: $8,000.00 for the permanent easement and $4,000.00 for the temporary easement for a
total of $12,000.00, based on appraised market value.
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer has approved this item. Final easement documents subject to legal review and
approval.
District(s): 12

19-0221
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE AMENDMENT REQUEST
Request:
Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”),
as Licensor to amend a License to the Village of Burr Ridge (“Burr Ridge”), Grantee, to locate, operate
and maintain a 36-inch watermain. Burr Ridge has an existing 36-inch water main under License No. 1625
granted by the Forest Preserves in 1996. Part of water main is proposed to be relocated approximately 60
feet to the southeast due to the Illinois Tollway’s Mile Long Bridge reconstruction project (Board Agenda
Item 19-0185). The relocation route includes 154 more linear feet than the existing license route. The
license will be amended to show the new location along with an additional 154 feet of water main.
Term: Continuous
License Fee: $4,560.61

Page 11 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

License Application Fee: $3,500.00
YELAR Fee: $6,450.00

Total one-time upfront fee of $14,510.61 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 154 linear feet of additional water main at a standard license area of 15
feet for a total of 2,310 square feet, or 0.05 acre.
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer has approved this item. Final amendment, including any required insurance, is
subject to legal review and approval.

The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed the plans associated with this license amendment and have
found them to be acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserves of Cook County
Board of Commissioners approve the issuance of this license amendment.
District(s): 17

19-0222
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED LICENSE AMENDMENT REQUEST
Request:
Requesting authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”),
as Licensor to amend a License to Wood River Pipelines, LLC (“Wood River”), Grantee, to locate,
operate and maintain a 14-inch petroleum pipeline. Wood River has an existing 14-inch petroleum pipeline
under License No. 868 granted by the Forest Preserves in 1971. Part of pipeline is proposed to be
relocated and extended approximately 409 feet due to the Illinois Tollway’s Mile Long Bridge
reconstruction project (Board Agenda Item 19-0185). The current license expires on September 7, 2021.
The license will be renewed/amended for a ten (10) year term for the entire length of the pipeline in the
Forest Preserves, including the additional 409 feet of new pipeline, at the current on-time renewal rate.
Term: Ten (10) Years
License Fee: $17,324.38
License Application Fee: $3,500.00
YELAR Fee: $6,450.00

Page 12 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

Total one-time upfront fee of $27,274.38 for the term of the License
(Sec. 5-2A-4 and 5-2B-4)
Tree Mitigation Fee: None
The area of the License is: 0.40 Acre
Concurrence(s):
The Chief Financial Officer has approved this item. Final amendment, including any required insurance, is
subject to legal review and approval.

The Forest Preserves staff have reviewed the plans associated with this license amendment and have
found them to be acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserves of Cook County
Board of Commissioners approve the issuance of this license amendment.
District(s): 17

19-0226
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
Department: Resource Management
Other

Illinois

Part(ies):

Department

of

Natural

Resources

State

Historic

Preservation

Office

(“SHPO”), Springfield, Illinois; and the Illinois State Museum, Springfield, Illinois
Authorization to enter into an intergovernmental agreement to streamline the permitting

Request:

process

between

the

agencies

related

to

compliance

with

the

Archaeological

and

Paleontological

Resources Protection Act (20 ILCS 3435/.01 et seq.) (the “Act”).
Goods

or

Services:

This agreement

will

serve

as

a

general

permit

to

conduct

archaeological

investigations on lands owned, managed, and leased by the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest
Preserves”) as required by the Act in lieu of the issuance of individual permits.
Agreement Number(s): N/A
Agreement Period: Five (5) years from date of execution

Page 13 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
District(s): Districtwide
Summary:

The Forest Preserves is responsible for protecting and preserving archaeological and

paleontological resources on public lands owned by the Forest Preserves, pursuant to the Act. The Forest
Preserves, through the Illinois State Archaeological Survey, has undertaken a records review of its
archaeological resources - both known and unknown - following management priorities established within
the Natural and Cultural Resources Master Plan. This work has involved verification and identification of
new site areas, identification of threats to archaeological resources, and development of appropriate
resource management strategies for cultural resources located on Forest Preserves land, so that these
invaluable resources can be preserved and protected for future generations.
This

intergovernmental

agreement

stipulates

personnel

requirements,

field

and

laboratory

methods,

reporting, and curation obligations for work under the Act for the purpose of reducing the number of
individual permits to be issued across the many investigation sites occurring on Forest Preserves property,
increasing efficiencies for all involved agencies. A functionally identical agreement was previously in place
since 2016, but has since expired.
The SHPO is the state office designated as the lead agency responsible for implementation of the Act.
The Illinois State Museum, a division of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, is a statewide
system of museums responsible for curation and data recordation under the Act, for the purpose of
preserving and maintaining a tangible record of Illinois’ natural and cultural heritage.
19-0232
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
RIGHT OF ENTRY AGREEMENT
Department(s): Planning and Development
Vendor: United States of America, Department of the Army (the “Army”)
Request: Authorization for the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) to enter into
and execute
Good(s) or Service(s): Right of Entry Agreement is for the Army to survey, make test borings, and
carry out other exploratory work on Forest Preserves property as may be necessary in connection with

Page 14 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

the Army’s proposed work with the McCook Levee. The McCook Levee is an existing levee along the
Des Plaines River which reduces the risk of flooding in the communities of McCook, Lyons, and Summit,
Illinois.
Contract Value: N/A
Contract period: Six (6) months from the date of full execution
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None
Accounts: N/A
Contract Number(s): N/A
Concurrences:
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief Attorney have approved this item.

Forest Preserves staff have reviewed the plans associated with this proposed right of entry agreement and
have found them to be acceptable; therefore, it is recommended that the Forest Preserves of Cook County
Board of Commissioners approve this proposed agreement.
District(s): 16
Summary: The Army plans to do soil borings and other exploratory work on both property owned by the
Forest Preserves and property owned by Metropolitan Water Reclamation District (“MWRD”) and leased
to the Forest Preserves. For property directly owned by the Forest Preserves, the Army is requiring the
execution of a Right of Entry Agreement. Under such Right of Entry Agreement, the Forest Preserves is
forgoing its standard fees as well as standard agreement terms such as insurance and indemnification.
However, the Forest Preserves will require MWRD to complete a Construction Access Permit with all of
the Forest Preserves standard terms, excluding fees. This waiver of fees is consistent with the
Memorandum of Understanding between the Forest Preserves and MWRD approved by the Forest
Preserves of Cook County Board of Commissioners on May 11, 2017.

19-0219
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
PROPOSED MISCELLANEOUS ITEM OF BUSINESS
Department: Resource Management
Summary:

Requesting authority, pursuant to Section 9 of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County

Act (70 ILCS810/9), to submit Harms Woods for Illinois Nature Preserve ("INP") dedication.

Page 15 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

This dedication contributes to one of the key goals set forward in the Next Century Conservation Plan to
dedicate 20,000 acres by 2025 as INPs. Dedication of a site as an INP provides the highest level of
protection for land in Illinois, and is granted only to natural areas of exceptional ecological quality.
Harms Woods is an approximately 170 acre preserve adjacent to the Village of Glenview in northeast
Cook County. The site consists of high quality mesic oak woodlands, mesic upland forest, and floodplain
forest along the Chicago River, which divides the preserve in half.

Ecological management of the site

began in the 1980s by volunteers and Forest Preserves of Cook County staff, and today the site remains
under management by a vibrant volunteer community. The site features beautiful woodlands, a diverse set
of wildflowers, and a number of rare state-listed species.
The Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest Preserves”) currently has twenty-four (24) dedicated
Nature Preserves and four (4) Land and Water Reserves. The addition of Harms Woods would establish
the 25th INP and bring the Forest Preserves’ total INP protected lands to approximately 9,860 acres.
It is respectfully requested that authority be granted to the Forest Preserves to submit Harms Woods to
the Illinois Nature Preserves Commission for review and formal dedication as an Illinois Nature Preserve.
District(s): 14

19-0229
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Refer to Contract Compliance Committee
Report Title: Forest Preserves of Cook County Annual Business Diversity Report FY 2018
Report Period: 1/1/2018 - 12/31/2018
Summary:

In July 2012, state legislation authorized the Forest Preserves of Cook County (the “Forest

Preserves”) to establish provisions to address the underuse of minority and women-owned businesses with
respect to procurement contracts.

An ordinance establishing the program’s parameters and guidelines

was passed by the Forest Preserves Board of Commissioners in September 2012. This initiative is

Page 16 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

significantly benefitting the residents of Cook County by increasing the pool of qualified minority and
women-owned businesses that have the opportunity to be selected for contracts awarded by the District
each year.
To remedy historic inequity and to facilitate greater inclusion, the Forest Preserves established aspirational
contract goals for the participation of minority and women-owned as set forth under the ordinances that
comprise the Forest Preserve District of Cook County Municipal Code.
The Minority and Women-Owned Businesses program accomplishments in FY 2018 include; awarded
contracts achieved 47% minority and women-owned businesses participation; 55% of contract payments
were made to minority and women-owned businesses either as prime contractors or sub-contractors.
The Forest Preserves participated in 16 outreach and workshop conferences, many in collaboration with
various government entities.

Also, in 2018, the Board approved an amendment to the Minority and

Women Business Enterprise Ordinance to create the Established Business Enterprise Program which
allows for weighted program participation as Minority and Women-Owned Businesses grow and graduate
from the program.
19-0223
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent
REPORT
Department: Finance and Administration
Request: Receive and File
Report Title: Procurement and Disbursements Report
Report Period: 2/1/2019 - 2/28/2019
Summary:

Submitting the Procurement and Disbursements Report for the period of February 2019.

The

report is to be received and filed in compliance with Section 1-8-2 (BB) of the District’s Code of
Ordinances.
19-0107
Presented by: ARNOLD RANDALL, General Superintendent

Page 17 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

PROPOSED CALENDAR OF EVENTS
Department: Conservation and Experiential Programming
Summary: Forest Preserves of Cook County Calendar - 4/23/2019 - 5/21/2019

Saturday, 4/27; 9am - 1pm
Earth Day Celebration and Preserves Clean Up, Beaubien Woods, Chicago
Clean up the preserves in partnership with Friends of the Parks and enjoy fun nature activities and
snacks during your break. Registration required for groups of 10 or more. Call 708-386-4042.
Saturday, 4/27; 12pm - 4:30pm and Sunday, 4/28; 10am - 4:30pm
Midwest Daffodil Society Display and Floral Design Show, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
The Midwest Daffodil Society's show features hundreds of daffodils on display that will be judged by
the society. The show includes cut blooms, floral design, and photography competitions. The show will
include floral designs inspired by the gardens at the Chicago Botanic Garden. Daffodil growers of all
skill levels are invited to participate.
Saturday, 4/27; 6:30pm - 12am
Annual Whirl Gala, Chicago Zoological Society/Brookfield Zoo, Brookfield
The Chicago Zoological Society’s Women's Board and Board of Trustees will host its 38th annual
black-tie gala on Saturday, April 27, at Brookfield Zoo. This year’s theme “Roaring Whirl 2019”
celebrates the 100th anniversary of the land donation to the Forest Preserves of Cook County for the
express purpose of creating a modern zoo. The event includes a cocktail hour featuring up-close
experiences with many of the zoo’s animal ambassadors, a three-course dinner, and dancing. Tickets
are available on Brookfield Zoo website.
Sunday, 4/28; 12:30pm - 3pm
Earth Day Celebration with the BackYard Nature Center, Erickson Woods, Winnetka
Join the BackYard Nature Center for an afternoon of service, learning and fun. Activities include
restoration, a fishing clinic, nature hikes and pop-up nature play.
Sunday, 4/28; 1pm
Forest Bathing, Thatcher Woods Pavilion, River Forest
Join Roberta Jannsen for a forest therapy walk and experience nature in a healthy way that will help you
get out of your head, live in our body and reduce stress in your life. For adults and teens. Space is
limited. Call 708-366-6530 to register.

Page 18 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

Sunday, 4/28; 1pm
Spring Pollinators, Sagawau Environmental Learning Center, Lemont
Meet the mining bees and other early pollinators and learn to welcome them in your landscape. Indoor
presentation followed by hike. Ages 14 and up. Registration required. Call 630-257-2045.

Thursday, 5/2; 7:30am
Bird Walk, Perkins Woods, Evanston
Join the Evanston North Shore Bird Club for birding in this small spring migrant hotspot. Added bonus:
spring wildflowers. Beginners welcome; binoculars available. For more information, visit the
Evanston North Shore Bird Club website.
Saturday, 5/4; 6am - 12pm
Birding Big Sit, Sagawau Environmental Learning Center, Lemont
Sagawau is counting each individual bird as it visits a specific area. Stay as long as you want.
Binoculars available for loan. All Ages.
Saturday, 5/4; 9am - 11am Rain Date: Sunday, 5/5; 9am - 11am
Ralph Frese Memorial Paddle, Willow Road Dam, Winnetka
Bring your canoe or kayak and celebrate the legacy of canoe legend Ralph Frese by paddling the
Chicago River from Willow Road Dam to Linne Woods. A shuttle bus runs 8am to 2pm from Linne
Woods to Willow Road Dam. Launch at 9am.
Saturday, 5/4; 6am - 12pm
Big Sit, Little Red Schoolhouse Nature Center, Willow Springs
Help identify all the birds seen or heard from a 17-foot-diameter stationary circle.
Sunday, 5/5; 6am - 1pm
The Big Sit, River Trail Nature Center, Northbrook
We need birders of any experience to help at any part of the day, counting the numbers and types of
birds.
Sunday, 5/5; 11am - 3pm
Spring Festival, Trailside Museum of Natural History, River Forest
Celebrate spring with a fun day of activities for all ages, including animal encounters, kids’ tree climb,
guided spring wildflower walks, bird banding, dip netting, seed planting, a kid’s craft, building a bird
house to take home and much more!
Friday, 5/10; 7pm - 8:30pm
Page 19 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

Spring Evening Awakening, Sand Ridge Nature Center, South Holland
Use your sense of hearing to identify frogs during a night hike. Registration required.
Friday, 5/11; 4pm and Saturday 5/12; 9am
Camping with the Birds, Camp Reinberg, Palatine
Join Chicago Audubon Society for an overnight camping trip with an owl walk, campfire sing-along
(with s’mores!) and a morning bird walk during the height of spring migration. Tent sites are available
for half-price at $17.50 (cabins are sold out). Chicago Audubon activities are free; bring your own
Friday night dinner and Saturday morning breakfast. Subject to weather and Camp Reinberg
cancellation policies. Contact 312-636-9750 to register.

Saturday, 5/11; 11am - 3pm
International Migratory Bird Day and Big Sit, Crabtree Nature Center, Barrington Hills
Join us for a bird walk to see who is winging in and experience the perils of migration in our Migration
Obstacle Course.
Saturday, 5/11; 6am - 12pm
The Big Sit Birdwatching, Trailside Museum of Natural History, River Forest
Stop and sit a while as we see how many birds we can spot or hear without leaving a 17-foot circle.
Binoculars and guidance provided.
Saturday, 5/11; 9am - 12pm
Chicago River Day Clean-up, Whistler Woods, Riverdale
Celebrate the 27th annual Chicago River Day with the Forest Preserves of Cook County on the Little
Calumet River. All ages. See Chicago River website for more information.
Saturday, 5/11; 10am - 5pm (weather permitting)
Model Railroad Garden: Landmarks of America, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
It’s the 20th anniversary for this family favorite. Eighteen model G-scale trains run on 18 tracks, winding
over bridges and trestles, and around nearly 50 models of American landmarks such as the Lincoln
Memorial in Washington, D.C. and the White House.
Every Day, 5/11 - 9/29
Brick Safari, Chicago Zoological Society/Brookfield Zoo, Brookfield
Brick Safari features more than 40 life-size animal sculptures created from millions of individual colored
LEGO bricks! The menagerie of animals will be located along a winding, wooded pathway on the east
side of the park, and many of the sculptures are based on some Brookfield Zoo favorites, such as the
Page 20 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

lion, giraffe, snow leopard, and pangolin. Open during zoo hours.
Sunday, 5/12; 1:30pm
Mother’s Day Wildflower Walk, River Trail Nature Center, Northbrook
Learn about spring woodland wildflowers on a casual hike.
Sunday, 5/12; 9am, 11am, 1pm (Seating)
Mother’s Day Brunch, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
Treat mom to spring in the Garden and an elegant brunch buffet that includes a carving station and
made-to-order omelets. Parties of eight or fewer may share a table with other guests. Reservation
required; fees include parking.
Friday, 5/17; 11am - 12:30pm or 3:30pm - 5pm
River Kayaking 101, Trailside Museum of Natural History, River Forest
Introductory class provided prior to a short paddle along the Des Plaines River to Maywood Grove.
Perfect for new kayakers. Ages 5 and up. Registration required. Call 312-533-5751.

Friday, 5/17; 7:30pm - 9pm
‘Scopes in the City’, Sand Ridge Nature Center, South Holland
Join Adler Planetarium astronomy staff for a fun night under the stars! We will start with a presentation,
then learn how a telescope works and view our beautiful moon.
Saturday, 5/18; 9am - 11:30am
World Migratory Bird Day Celebration, LaBagh Woods, Chicago
Welcome back birds at this year’s World Migratory Bird Day Celebration. Watch scientists band and
release birds migrating from Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean. Enjoy crafts, snacks, bird
walks and more.
Saturday, 5/18; 7:30pm - 10:30pm
Night Sky Programs: Viewing the Night Sky with Binoculars, Little Red Schoolhouse Nature
Center, Willow Springs
Peek at the universe through telescopes; guided by the Chicago Astronomical Society.
Saturday, 5/18; 11am - 3pm
Nature Block Party, Eggers Grove, Chicago
Get your hands dirty and participate in land restoration or relax with games, biking, walks and more.
Page 21 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

Limited number of bikes available. All ages. Registration required for groups of 20 or more. Call
708-386-4042.
Saturday, 5/18; 10am - 4pm
Get Growing Plant Sale, Chicago Botanic Garden, Glencoe
A new splash of color or a bit of texture can help freshen up your garden for spring. Come early to a
one-of-a-kind plant sale hosted by the Women’s Board of the Chicago Horticultural Society. Look for
unique plants and planters, as well as arrangements design by Garden horticulturists. Need inspiration
or advice? Our staff experts will lead demonstrations to get you started.
Sunday, 5/19; 8am
Des Plaines Canoe and Kayak Marathon, Dam No. 2 Woods, Mt. Prospect
Join the second oldest continual canoe race in the United States! Race begins at Oak Springs Road in
Libertyville and ends at Dam #2. Free for spectators. Activities at Dam #2 begin at 11am. Register on
Canoe Marathon Website.
Sunday, 5/19; 10am
Canyon Tour, Sagawau Environmental Learning Center, Lemont
Sagawau Canyon highlights the geology of Northeast Illinois. Hike is over rough terrain; wading through
a stream is necessary. Registration required. Starts the Monday prior to the program date.
Sunday, 5/19; 2pm - 4pm
Camping Open House, Camp Reinberg, Palatine, Camp Bullfrog Lake, Willow Springs, Camp
Sullivan, Oak Forest, Camp Dan Beard, Northbrook, Camp Shabbona, South Holland
See the sites and learn more at all five campgrounds.
Tuesday, 5/21; 5:30pm - 7pm
Camping 101, Camp Bullfrog, Willow Springs
Free, hands-on workshop series teaching basic camping skills. No youth groups. All ages. Children 16

and under with adult.

Page 22 of 22

 FPD Board of Commissioners

BOARD AGENDA

April 23, 2019

COMMITTEE ITEMS REQUIRING BOARD ACTION

RULES COMMITTEE MEETING OF 4/23/2019
19-0246 JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS meeting held on 3/19/2019
____________________

FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING OF 4/23/2019
19-0230 RECOMMENDATION OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE (LITIGATION) Finance
Subcommittee Meeting on Litigation– 3/19/2019
19-0234 RECOMMENDATION OF THE FINANCE SUBCOMMITTEE (WORKERS’
COMPENSATION) Finance Subcommittee Meeting on Workers’ Compensation– 4/23/2019
19-0216 PROPOSED DISBURSEMENT Swim Chicago Southland, Bridgeview, Illinois
19-0224 REPORT Corporate Fund Analysis of Revenue and Expense 1/1/2018 – 2/28/2019
____________________

REAL ESTATE COMMITTEE MEETING OF 4/23/2019
19-0185 PROPOSED INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT- Illinois State Toll Highway
Authority (the “Tollway”)

 