To:

Board of Directors

From: Leanne P. Redden, Executive Director
Date: April 2, 2019
Re:

Ordinance authorizing a contract for upgrading of the RTA’s
critical Storage Area Network (SAN)

175 W. Jackson Blvd,
Suite 1650
Chicago, IL 60604
312-913-3200
rtachicago.org

The proposed ordinance authorizes the execution of a contract with an authorized reseller of
NetApp products, CDW to provide critical storage and computing systems that manage the RTA’s
technology platform. The total cost of this contract is for an amount not to exceed $417,450.00
and includes the one-time initial service charges and five years of support and maintenance.
Background
The RTA utilizes a Storage Area Network (SAN) that acts as a repository for all files generated by
the RTA user community, but more importantly holds all of the business-critical server images
and software systems that run RTA’s entire computing environment. Most large organizations in
public, private, and the educational space utilize similar systems. The implementation of an
enterprise SAN facilitates consolidated infrastructure and resource sharing capabilities.
The RTA’s current SAN infrastructure is over five (5) years old and has reached the end of its
product lifecycle; therefore, the IT Department must begin the process to upgrade this critical
item. The level of effort required to procure, configure, and implement this infrastructure is high,
and the risks are equally high. Due to the complexity of such implementations, the RTA will
require professional services to help plan, configure, and implement the hardware and software
components. The most significant risk to the agency is improper implementation of the
infrastructure, which would result in an unplanned outage of voice and data communications, as
well as internal access to server systems.
Given the significant risk of migrating to a different SAN provider, IT staff identified the need to
remain with the current hardware provider, NetApp, also because of the system familiarity and
ease of implementation. The IT staff who will help implement the SAN, are also heavily involved
with the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) project, building and maintaining crucial network
connections between RTA and the new ERP system.

 CDW has previously submitted the RTA’s Vendor/Contractor Certification that discloses the
names of the principals and any contracted lobbyists, certifies that entering into this contract will
not create a prohibited conflict of interest, and certifies that the firm and its principals have not
been debarred or suspended from participating in public contracts and have not been convicted
of procurement-related offenses. CDW-G has also agreed to update the Certification should any
of the information change during the contract period.
Financial Impact
The financial components are listed below:
Vendor
CDW
CDW
CDW
CDW
NetAPP
Total Cost

Service
SAN Installation and Project Management

Cost
$16,905

Term
One-time
installation
NetApp SAN
(hardware) $319,680 One-time
(software)
$934.00 installation
Nexus switches & service agreement (hardware) $23,182 One-time
installation
Training of RTA Staff
$8,721
One-time
Support & Maintenance
$48,028 5 Yrs.
$417,450

The approved RTA 2019 budget contains sufficient funding for this project.
Prepared by: Finance, Innovation and Information Technology Department
LR/BRH/GC/AM
Attachment.

Page 2 of 2

 ORDINANCE NO.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation Authority (the Authority or RTA) operates server
and storage infrastructure that are critical for agency operations;
WHEREAS, the Authority must maintain high availability of this infrastructure for normal
operations;
WHEREAS, the Authority has determined that a contract with CDW-G meets the
Authority’s infrastructure requirements;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors hereby finds that competitive bid for these products
and services would be disadvantageous due to the high risk associated with implementing a new
and unknown incompatible product ;
WHEREAS, CDW has previously submitted the Authority’s Vendor/Contractor
Certification that discloses the names of the principals and any contracted lobbyists, certifies that
the firms and their principals have not been debarred or suspended from participating in public
contracts and have not been convicted of procurement-related offenses and provides for
updates to the Certification should any of the required information change during the contract
period.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY that:
1.

The Executive Director of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute a contract with
CDW-G for a five (5) year terms beginning in 2019 and a total value not to exceed
$417,450.

2.

The Executive Director is hereby authorized and directed to take such actions as the
Executive Director deems necessary or appropriate to implement, administer and enforce
this ordinance and said contract.

 