       

   
Infrastructure   Trust      
Potential   Project   

Monorail   
   

Between   the   Roosevelt   CTA   Super   Station   and   The   
Museum   Campus   /   Soldier   Field   /   Northerly   Island   

   

   
   
   
   
   
Prepared   by:   
Allan   Mellis   
1115   West   Montana   St.   
Chicago,   Illinois   60614-­‐2220   
773-­‐327-­‐9123   
mellisfamily@rcn.com   
April   3,   2013   

   

       

   

Infrastructure   Trust   Potential   Project   

       

    Monorail   

Between   the   Roosevelt   CTA   Super   Station   and   The   
Museum   Campus   /   Soldier   Field   /   Northerly   Island   

   
INTRODUCTION
There   is   a   need   for   an   environmentally   friendly   connection   between   the   Roosevelt   
CTA   superstation   and   the   Museum   Campus   /   Northerly   Island   to   serve   the   many   
visitors   to   our   lakefront   attractions   who   prefer   not   to   drive.      A   monorail   would   
provide   this   connection.   Monorails   are   proven,   safe,   environmentally   friendly,   cost   
effective,   and   are   popular.      
   
PROPOSAL (See attached map)
Establish   a   one   mile   monorail   that   starts   at   the   Roosevelt   CTA   stop,   heads   east   on   
Roosevelt,   south   to   E.   McFetridge   (Field   Museum,   Soldier   Field   Stop),   east   to   E.   
Solidarity   Drive   (Shedd   Aquarium   stop),   east   to   Northerly   Island   (Northerly   Island   
Stop),   east   to   Adler   Planetarium   (Adler   Planetarium   Stop)   and   then   back   to   
Roosevelt   Road   CTA   with   the   same   stops   westbound   as   there   were   eastbound.   
BENEFITS
1. Non-­‐Polluting   connection   to   Northerly   Island,   Museum   Campus,   and   Soldier   
Field.      
2. The   monorail   would   be   fully   automated.   
3. Reduction   in   automobile   traffic   and   pollution.   
4. Provides   easy   access   via   public   transportation   to   lakefront   attractions   
5. Direct   connection   from   CTA   Red,   Orange,   and   Green   Line   trains.   
6. A   tourist   attraction   in   itself.   
7. Will   provide   spectacular   views   of   Chicago   and   Northerly   Island   
8. A   transportation   prototype,   which   could   built   in   other   parts   of   the   city,   such   
as   a   connection   from   Grand   Avenue   CTA   Stations   to   Navy   Pier.   
   
REVENUE SOURCES
1. Fare   Revenue   
2. Advertising   
3. Federal   Government   Transportation   Grant   
   
CONCLUSION
The   monorail   can   be   a   potential   infrastructure   project   that   provides   an   
environmentally   friendly   connection   between   the   CTA   and   the   lakefront   attractions,   
while   providing   a   return   for   investors.      
   
   

 .. 
?Vim-Md]. 
w.

In! 7 . .

Fans?lth: 3 3.52 

 

PROPOSED MONORAIL ROUTE

