Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Rules and Administration Committee
Wednesday, April 24, 2019

10:30 AM

Cook County Building, Board Room
118 North Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois

NOTICE AND AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the Committee or Subcommittee of the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County at the date, time and location listed above to consider the following:
PUBLIC TESTIMONY

Authorization as a public speaker shall only be granted to those individuals who have submitted in writing,
their name, address, subject matter, and organization (if any) to the Secretary 24 hours in advance of the
meeting. Duly authorized public speakers shall be called upon to deliver testimony at a time specified in
the meeting agenda. Authorized public speakers who are not present during the specified time for public
testimony will forfeit their allotted time to speak at the meeting. Public testimony must be germane to a
specific item(s) on the meeting agenda, and the testimony must not exceed three minutes; the Secretary
will keep track of the time and advise when the time for public testimony has expired. Persons authorized
to provide public testimony shall not use vulgar, abusive, or otherwise inappropriate language when
addressing the Board; failure to act appropriately; failure to speak to an item that is germane to the
meeting, or failure to adhere to the time requirements may result in expulsion from the meeting and/or
disqualify the person from providing future testimony.
19-3036
COMMITTEE MINUTES

Approval of the minutes from the meeting of 03/20/2019
19-2891
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings of the regular Consent Calendar meeting held on 3/20/2019.

Page 1 of 8

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 24, 2019

19-2892
Presented by: KAREN A. YARBROUGH, County Clerk
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS

COOK COUNTY CLERK, Karen A. Yarbrough, presented in printed form a record of the Journal of
Proceedings of the regular meeting held on 3/21/2019.
19-2451
Presented by: FRITZ KAEGI, Cook County Assessor
PROPOSED CHANGES TO PUBLIC FACING RULES AND REGULATIONS
Department: Cook County Assessor’s Office
Summary: Revision to the Official Rules of the Cook County Assessor.

Consistent with the County Code, §1.9, the following proposal, which was approved by the Cook
County Assessor on 3/15/2019, will be effective on the date this rule revision is received and filed
by the Rules Committee of the County Board of Commissioners.
The Cook County Assessor’s Rules provide requirements, parameters and guidance to persons doing
business with the Assessor. Taxpayer assistance will be provided to individuals by Assessor personnel
during normal business hours.
FILING AN ASSESSED VALUATION APPEAL COMPLAINT
Rule 1 All complaints for an Assessment Appeal (Appeal) shall be originated by the taxpayer’s timely

filing of the official appeal form(s) prescribed and adopted by the Assessor, as set forth in these
Official Rules of the Cook County Assessor.
Rule 2 All attorneys or other parties acting on behalf of a taxpayer shall file an Attorney Authorization or

Authorization Form and the filing of the Form shall constitute a certification that the attorney or
party has been specifically authorized to file the complaint by the taxpayer, and is the only person
so

authorized.

Only

the

Assessor’s

original

Attorney

Authorization

or

Authorization

Form may be filed. The Form may not be altered in any way from its original format, or

language, or in any other manner. References in these Rules to the actions of a “taxpayer”
include actions of an authorized attorney or practitioner on the taxpayer’s behalf.
Rule 3 Failure to follow any rule of the Cook County Assessor’s Office or to provide complete

information is grounds for the denial of an appeal.
Rule 4 Each form required to be filed by these rules shall be filed with all applicable information

completed in its entirety.

Page 2 of 8

 Rules and Administration
Committee

April 24, 2019

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Rule 5 Pursuant to Rule 1, complaints must be filed on the official appeal form prescribed and adopted by

the Assessor. All sections on the form must be completed. Once filed no other copy of this
complaint form will be valid. Except as provided in Rule 23, forms may not be filed by facsimile
(fax). Forms can be found on the Assessor’s website at
www.cookcountyassessor.com/Appeals/Appeal-Forms.aspx
<http://www.cookcountyassessor.com/Appeals/Appeal-Forms.aspx>
Rule 6 The official application form for a Certificate of Error and supporting documentation must be filed
in triplicate. Generally, an application for a Certificate of Error generally must be filed during the
period when a taxpayer may file an appeal based on the Township schedule posted on the
Assessor’s website. If a taxpayer seeks a change in classification based on the exempt status or
property, an incentive classification, or due to the application of a homestead type exemption
(such as homestead, senior, senior freeze, veterans, disabled and disabled veterans), an
application may be filed at any time. Please see Assessment Calendar at:
www.cookcountyassessor.com/Appeals/Appeal-Deadlines.aspx
<http://www.cookcountyassessor.com/Appeals/Appeal-Deadlines.aspx>
Rule 7 A complaint must be filed on or before the date established by the Assessor as the official appeal
closing date for the Township in which the property is located. The Assessor will post in its
office and will publish on its website the opening and closing dates for filing for each of
the 38 townships in Cook County, as required by law. No complaint will be accepted after
the close of a Township’s official appeal filing period as published on the Assessor’s website.
Rule 8 All complaints except individual residential complaints, must be filed in the office of the Assessor,
County Building, Room 301, 118 N. Clark Street, Chicago, Illinois 60602, either in person, or by a
courier or mail service. The date of a U.S. Postal Service postmark or the receipted date of
shipment via a courier or mail service will be considered the date of filing for a complaint received
by the Assessor. The Assessor is not responsible for complaints sent by courier or mail that are
not received on time. Appeals for individual residential taxpayers may be filed at any location of
the Cook County Assessor’s Office, filed online, or mailed in accordance with the above
provisions.
Rule 9 If property that is the subject of an appeal consists of two or more contiguous or neighboring
Property Index Numbers (PINs) at one location, the PINs shall be listed on one complaint form.
Multiple PINs that are not contiguous or do not comprise a single property at a one location, shall
be filed as separate appeals.
Rule 10 If more than one complaint is filed for the same PIN, the first complaint filed will be considered
by the Assessor as controlling. All subsequent complaints will be disregarded, provided, however,
that in the event that more than one attorney or representative files a complaint on the same
PIN(s), all parties filing on the same property shall be notified by the Assessor and the Assessor
will request a properly executed Authorization or Substitution form.
A party may substitute an appearance on behalf of a taxpayer while the appeal is pending at the
Assessor’s Office prior to the close of the Township filing or review period, by filing with the
Assessor a completed Withdrawal and Substitution form.
The

complaint,

the

appeal

Authorization

or

Page 3 of 8

Attorney

Authorization

Form,

and

any

 Rules and Administration
Committee

April 24, 2019

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Withdrawal and Substitution form shall be grouped separately from other

documents

filed with the appeal. All other documents that provide substance in support of an
appeal should include ONLY the attorney or practitioner’s number and not identifying
law firm, attorney or practitioner information. For example, nothing filed shall be put on
a law firm’s letterhead or contain the attorney’s name.
EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF AN ASSESSED VALUATION APPEAL
Rule 11 Additional documentation in support of a complaint must be submitted no later than 10 days after

the official appeal deadline of the relevant Township. The original complaint shall reference that
additional documentation will be filed.
Rule 12 The taxpayer shall refer to the fillable appeal complaint forms for the respective property

classification(s) located at: www.cookcountyassessor.com/Appeals/Appeal-Forms.aspx.
Class 1 - Vacant Land
(1) Vacant Land Appeal Form
Class 2 - Residential
(1) Residential Appeal Form
(2) Condominium Appeal Form
(3) General Affidavit
Class 3 - Apartment buildings with more than six units
(1) Industrial/Commercial/Apartment Appeal Form
(2) Property Summary
(3) Attorney Authorization/ Authorization Affidavit
* Other forms listed online may be relevant to your appeal
Class 4 - Not-for-Profit
(1) Not-for-Profit Affidavit
(2) Industrial/Commercial/Apartment Appeal Form
(3) Property Summary Sheet
(4) Attorney Authorization/ Authorization Affidavit
* Other forms listed online may be relevant to your appeal
Class 5 - Industrial/Commercial
(1) Industrial/Commercial/Apartment Appeal Form
(2) Property Summary Sheet
(3) Attorney Authorization/ Authorization Affidavit
* Other forms listed online may be relevant to your appeal including forms required for incentive

classification

property.

Please

see

Rule

19 for

Page 4 of 8

information

regarding

the

Real

Property

 Rules and Administration
Committee

April 24, 2019

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Income and Expense Form.
Rule 13 All complaints, summary sheets and logs must be signed by the taxpayer, or, if the taxpayer is

represented by an attorney or other party, the documents may be signed by the attorney or other
party. The signature on each of these documents constitutes a representation that the facts
appearing thereon are true and correct.
Rule 14 All affidavits filed with the Assessor shall be signed by a person having knowledge of the facts.

An affidavit filed on behalf of a corporation where one person does not have knowledge of all
facts may be filed by a duly qualified representative of the corporation based upon that affiant’s
inquiry of, and based on facts ascertained from, representatives of the corporation having
knowledge of all facts.
Rule 15 With the exception of Class 2 residential property, taxpayers shall submit a recent original and

clear photograph of the front of the subject property with an appeal. Taxpayers may, but are not
required to, submit photographs in support of a residential appeal.
Rule 16 When an appeal is based in whole or in part upon “uniformity” or “comparability of properties,”

a recent, clear photograph of the front of each property claimed to be comparable to the subject
property shall be filed and identified by the property’s corresponding PIN.
Rule 17 A taxpayer shall disclose the purchase price of the subject property and the date of purchase if it

took place within the three years immediately prior to the appeal date, and, shall file with the
Assessor relevant sales documents. Both the seller’s and the buyer’s identity, and any relationship
between them, must be revealed.
The following documents shall be furnished: Sales Agreement, or in the case of an individual
residential property, a closing statement; the Deed; and any applicable PTAX form. “Sales
Agreement” should be broadly construed to mean a signed legal document evidencing the agreed
upon terms and conditions for the sale/ purchase of real property that is the subject of an
assessment appeal.
Rule 18 Appraisals submitted by taxpayers shall be for a property’s Highest and Best Use, USPAP

compliant, state law compliant, and shall provide an opinion of value only for the assessment years
under appeal. Submitted appraisals also must include an Appraisal Cover Sheet as prescribed by
the Assessor.
Rule 19 Where the property that is the subject of appeal is an income producing property, in whole or in

part, the taxpayer shall file with the Assessor a copy of Schedule E of the taxpayer’s 1040 IRS
form for the three previous tax years (signed by the prepare), actual income and expense
statements for the three previous years, and the Assessor’s Real Property Income and Expense
(RPIE) form, which can be found on the Assessor’s website. The RPIE form shall contain the
same information required in Schedule E and must be in affidavit form signed by the affiant. The

Assessor’s

Real

Property

and

Expense

(RPIE)

Page 5 of 8

form

or

data

is

required

to

be

filed

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

April 24, 2019

electronically via the Assessor’s website.
Income producing property is defined as non-owner occupied parcels of real property that

generate rental income, but does not include residential properties with 6 or fewer units. Whether
or not hotels and motels are owner occupied, they are considered income producing property for
purposes of these Rules.
Except for apartment buildings with more than 6 units, the taxpayer shall file with the Assessor an
affidavit* setting forth any relationship (other than landlord and tenant) between the parties to any
submitted lease including, but not limited to, those existing by blood, or marriage to the second
degree, corporate parent-subsidiary companies, or ownership by virtue of non-publicly held stock.
The Assessor may request copies of fully executed leases.
Rule 20 If assessment relief is sought on the grounds of “vacancy” at a specific property, the taxpayer

shall file:
1. A Vacancy/Occupancy Affidavit on the form provided by the Assessor; (Occupancy shall
include all space actually occupied or for which rent is being paid or is payable, even though the
space may actually be vacant);
2. Dated photographs of the interior vacant space and/or units; and
3. An affidavit setting forth the duration of, and reason for the vacancy, the attempts made to
lease the vacant space with documents such as copies of listings and advertisements utilized in
such efforts attached. If no such effort was made, the affidavit must set forth the reason no
attempt to rent such space was made. The affidavit must comport with the form Affidavit found
on the assessor’s website.
4. If relief is sought on the grounds of “vacancy,” the utility bills for the term the vacancy is
requested must be filed.
5. As applicable, all documents required by Rule 19 also must also be filed.
The Assessor is charged with assessing property at a percentage of its fair cash value as
defined in the Illinois Property Tax Code, 35 ILCS 200/1 et seq. If vacancy relief is requested,
market data will be considered as well as specific property characteristics. The Illinois Property
Tax Code authorizes a reduction in a property’s assessed value on a limited basis during a period
for which buildings or improvements are destroyed, rendered uninhabitable or otherwise unfit for
occupancy or for customary use by accidental, unintentional means. See 35 ILCS 200/9-180; 35
ILCS 200/1-150.
Rule 21 In the event an assessment reduction is sought due to the demolition of a building, the taxpayer

shall file with the Assessor:
1. A copy of the demolition permit;
2. Evidence of payment for demolition; and
3. An original and clear photograph of the subject property before and after demolition. The date

Page 6 of 8

 Rules and Administration
Committee

April 24, 2019

NOTICE AND AGENDA

of the demolition photograph must appear on the photograph.
Rule 22 An argument that a portion of a property should be treated as excess-vacant land shall be

supported by a plat of survey detailing the dimensions and locations of all buildings, parking areas,
or other improvements, any unimproved areas or storage used, and any ingress, egress or product
or person flow across the property. The actual use of the property shall be specified. A recent
original and clear photograph of the land claimed to be excess shall be filed with the Assessor.
REVIEW OF AN ASSESSED VALUATION APPEAL DECISION
Rule 23 A taxpayer dissatisfied with a decision of the Assessor may request a review of the case. The

review process is not to be employed to cure a failure to timely submit documents required by the
Assessor. Review requests should not simply dispute the Assessor’s capitalization rates,
expense ratios, and rulings of law without further detailed explanation and analysis. Nor
should

requests

simply

reiterate

or

resubmit

previously

advanced

arguments

and

materials without new supporting evidence or argument to justify reconsideration.

Review requests must be made in writing and delivered to the Assessor in person, via mail or
facsimile. Review requests must meet the following criteria:
1. be filed timely, within 5 days of the date of the letter from the Assessor informing the appellant
of the Assessor's decision;
2. identify the assessment, township and complaint number and the relevant PIN numbers of the
case; and,
3. state the specific grounds for the review request.
The only grounds for a review request which the Assessor will consider are:
1.

newly

discovered,

obtained

or

received

evidence,

accompanied

with

documentation

demonstrating the previous unavailability of the documents;
2. changes in the law, setting forth the previous law and the relevant changes thereto;
3. an error or mistake in the Assessor’s previous application of existing law, setting forth the
alternative theory being advanced;
4. evidence provided in response to a request of the Assessor.
These rules shall be effective on the date of adoption by the Cook County Assessor.
Legislative History :

3/21/19 -

Board of Commissioners

Page 7 of 8

-

refer to the Rules and Administration Commi

 Rules and Administration
Committee

NOTICE AND AGENDA

Secretary
Chairman:
Suffredin
Vice-Chairman: Degnen
Members:
Daley, Deer, Lowry, Miller, S. Morrison, Silvestri, Sims

Page 8 of 8

April 24, 2019

 