To:

Board of Directors

From: Leanne. P. Redden, Executive Director
Date: April 8, 2019
Re:

Ordinance authorizing a contract amendment with SolidLine
Media for ongoing edits to the Mobility Management video
series

175 W. Jackson Blvd,
Suite 1650
Chicago, IL 60604
312-913-3200
rtachicago.org

Action Requested
The proposed ordinance authorizes the Executive Director to execute a 24-month contract
extension with SolidLine Media and add a dollar amount not to exceed $39,040 to the existing
contract value of $127,427.50. This amendment will allow SolidLine Media to make necessary
updates to content in the five (5) videos this vendor previously produced for the RTA Mobility
Management Video Series.
Background
The RTA worked with SolidLine Media to create five (5) videos in a Mobility Management Video
series to teach older adults and people with disabilities about accessible transportation options
throughout the RTA region. The video series covers topics such as: Overview of Accessible Transit
Options, How to Decide Which Transit Options Are Right for You, How to Use Accessibility
Features, Accessible Trip Planning on Metra, Pace, and CTA Fixed Route, What to Expect When
Riding Buses & Trains, and Community Safety & Problem Solving. When RTA or a Service Board
make an update that impacts content explained within one of the RTA Mobility Management
Video Series, it becomes necessary to update the video with this new information. This
amendment will ensure that we can make all necessary updates to the video series to keep the
series relevant for a longer period of time.
SolidLine Media has previously submitted the Authority’s Vendor/Contractor Certification that
discloses the names of the principals and any contracted lobbyists, certifies that entering into
this contract will not create a prohibited conflict of interest, and certifies that the firm and its
principals have not been debarred or suspended from participating in public contracts and have
not been convicted of procurement-related offenses. The firm has agreed to update the
Certification should any of the information change during the contract period.
Financial Impact
The anticipated cost of the edits to the Mobility Management Video Series is $39,040, for a total
contract value not to exceed $166,827.50. This amount was anticipated in the 2019 agency
budget; therefore, the funds are available for this project.
Prepared By: Mobility Services Department
LPR/MV/DR
Attachment.

 ORDINANCE NO.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation Authority (“the Authority”) wishes to demonstrate
its commitment to providing educational video series training on accessible transportation
options for older adults and people with disabilities in Northeastern Illinois;
WHEREAS, Solidline Media produced the original RTA Mobility Management Video Series;
WHEREAS, the Authority will make necessary updates to the Mobility Management Video
Series content to ensure it is up-to-date and accurate for the public at an additional cost not to
exceed $39,040;
WHEREAS, SolidLine Media is a well-established local video production company with
extensive experience in providing the requested services;
WHEREAS, SolidLine Media has previously submitted the Authority’s Vendor/Contractor
Certification that discloses the names of the principals and any contracted lobbyists, certifies that
entering into this contract will not create a prohibited conflict of interest, and certifies that the
firm and its principals have not been debarred or suspended from participating in public contracts
and have not been convicted of procurement-related offenses. The firm has agreed to update
the Certification should any of the information change during the contract period.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY that:
1. The Executive Director of the Authority is hereby authorized to execute a 24-month contract
extension with SolidLine Media, to provide the necessary updates to the Mobility
Management Video Series with a total contract value not to exceed $166,827.50.
2. The Executive Director is hereby authorized and directed to take such actions as the Executive

Director deems necessary or appropriate to implement, administer and enforce this
ordinance and said contract.

 