CHICAGO INFRASTRUCTURE TRUST (CIT) DOCUMENT RETENTION
POLICY
Adopted: April 20, 2016
Purpose:
CIT documents provide important information as to how it
conducts business and manages employees. The CIT must retain certain records
because they contain information that:


Serves as CIT's corporate memory.



Has enduring business value (for example, it provides a record of a
business transaction, evidences the CIT’s rights or obligations,
protects the CIT's legal interests, or ensures operational
continuity).


Must be kept to satisfy legal, accounting, or other regulatory
requirements.

The accidental or intentional destruction of these records during their specified
retention periods could result in the following consequences for CIT and/or its
employees:


Fines and penalties.



Loss of rights.



Obstruction of justice charges.



Inference of spoliation of evidence and spoliation tort claims.



Contempt of court charges.



Serious disadvantages in litigation.

This policy is part of a company-wide system for the review, retention and
disposition of records CIT creates or receives in connection with the business it
conducts.

1

 Types of Documents
This policy explains the differences between records (which are required
to be retained in accordance with the attached Record Retention Schedule or any
litigation hold, if applicable) and transitory information (which is not required to
be retained).
Records.
A record is any type of information created, received, or transmitted in the
transaction of CIT’s business, regardless of physical format.
Therefore, any paper records and electronic files that are part of any of the
categories listed in the Records Retention Schedule contained in the Appendix to
this policy must be retained for the amount of time indicated in the Records
Retention Schedule. A record should not be retained beyond the period indicated
in the Record Retention Schedule, unless a valid business reason (or a litigation
hold or other special situation) calls for its continued retention.
Transitory Information.
Transitory information consists of data that may be discarded or deleted at
the discretion of the user once it has served its temporary useful purpose and/or
data that may be safely destroyed because it is not a record as defined by this
policy. Transitory information is not considered a record for retention purposes.
Examples of transitory information include:


Duplicates of originals that have not been annotated.



Preliminary drafts of letters, memoranda, reports, worksheets and
informal notes that do not represent significant steps or decisions
in the preparation of an official record.



Books, periodicals, manuals, training binders and other printed
materials obtained from sources outside of the CIT and retained
primarily for reference purposes.



Spam and junk mail.

2

 Litigation Holds and Other Special Situations
CIT requires all employees to fully comply with its published records
retention schedule and procedures as provided in this policy. All employees
should note the following general exception to any stated destruction schedule. If
CIT records are relevant to current litigation, potential litigation (that is, a dispute
that could result in litigation), government investigation, audit or other event, you
must preserve and not delete, dispose, destroy or change those records, including
e-mails, until those records are no longer needed. This exception is referred to as
a litigation hold or legal hold and replaces any previously or subsequently
established destruction schedule for those records.
Responsibility of All Employees
CIT strives to comply with the laws, rules and regulations by which it is
governed and with recognized compliance practices. All employees must comply
with this policy, the Records Retention Schedule and any litigation hold
communications.

3

 