Municipal Employees’ Annuity
and Benefit Fund of Chicago
A Pension Trust Fund of the City of Chicago
321 North Clark Street, Suite 700, Chicago, Illinois
60654 Telephone: 312-236-4700 Fax: 312-527-0192

www.meabf.org
Jim Mohler, Executive Director

MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY & BENEFIT FUND OF CHICAGO
MINUTES FOR SPECIAL INVESTMENT MEETING
NO. 2019-03-02
March 26, 2019

A special Investment Meeting of the Retirement Board of the Municipal Employee’s Annuity
and Benefit Fund was held in the Fund offices on March 26, 2019. The meeting was called to
order at 9:06 a.m.
Roll Call:
Trustee Johnson

Present

Trustee Keane

Present

Trustee McMahon

Present

A quorum is present
Additional attendees include the following individuals:
Mr. James Mohler, Executive Director, Ms. Mary Pat Burns, Burke, Burns & Pinelli, Mr. Brian
Wrubel, Marquette Associates, Mr. Jaime Wesner Marquette Associates, Mr. Neil Capps,
Marquette Associates, Mr. Steve Yoon, Investment Officer, Ms. Donna Hansen, Office Manager,
Ms. Theresa Dao, Intern and Mr. Robert Molaro, Fund’s Legislative Liaison.
Public Comment
There was no Request to address the Board.
Legislative Update
Mr. Molaro updated the Board on the current status of bills that affect the Fund.
LM Capital Group
Firm Update, Performance Discussion.Mr. Luis Maizel, Co-Founder & Senior Managing
Director, Ms. Rachel Wilson, Primary Portfolio Manager and Mr. Peter Capotosto, Business
Development presented a fixed income market environment and outlook and the core fixed
income portfolio’s performance. Mr. Mohler also asked that LM Capital provide a report of
Assets under Management, Inception dates and performance for each product they offer.

 Nuveen Asset Management
Karen L Bowie, CFA Senior Vice President /Portfolio Manager and Ms. Kitty Martin
Managing Director presented an equity market environment and outlook, small cap value
portfolio review, and a performance attribution analysis.
Asset Allocation Studies –Reducing Portfolio Volatility
Mr. Wesner discussed briefly with the Board, The Fund’s asset allocation study highlighting
cash flow projections and asset allocation options that achieve different return-risk objectives.
.
RFI Risk and Functional Requirements Assessment for Information and Related Systems
Trustee Johnson made a motion to approve a contract with LaSalle Consulting Partners, Inc.to
provide an IT assessment pending successful contract negotiation. Seconded by Trustee Keane.
Carried Ayes – Trustee Johnson, Trustee Keane and Trustee McMahon. Nays- None.
There being no further business to come before the Board, Trustee Johnson made a motion to
adjourn at 11: 22 a.m. Seconded by Trustee Keane.
Carried Ayes – Trustee Johnson, Trustee Keane, and Trustee McMahon. Nays - None

 