SSA Commissioners Minutes from 21 February 2019

Details
Date/Time/Location

21 Feb 2019/6:30pm/1750 E. 71st Street

Commissioners

Jennifer Barnes, Suellen G. Hurt, Ayesha Amena Karim, Judy
Minor-Jackson, Alicia Garcia-Abner, Jared Lewis

Staﬀ

Tonya Trice, Kenneth Vasser, Ciera Whitaker

Guest

Jared Kelly, Merry Green, Sharita Childs, Oﬃcer BlaydesCPD, Edie More, John Davis, Sabenia Bokahri

Whiteboard Notes
Task

Responsible

Check for/post No trespassing decals

PM

Terms of removal for Communist Group

PM

Park District assistance with family activities
(cultural center)

J. Lewis

Decide entertainment for the Summer Fest

ALL

Discussion

Completed?

 Decisions

Approver

The Chair called for an approval of the Agenda. Suellen Hurt moved to
adopt the agenda.

Jared Lewis
seconded the
motion

It was agreed by all present to have the guest present first
Jared Kelly of CEI Media Group introduced his business and the services
he could oﬀer South Shore specifically; Digital Design and Marketing. He
mentioned that his company does printed media, designs, and banners.
Sabina of the Rise Strategy Group presented her capabilities concerning
what they are able to do for community engagement during events,
specifically the ’Summer Fest’. She referenced how their company
works with community leaders, advocacy groups, and faith organizations
that they can supply the SSA with.
Oﬃcer Blaydes of the Chicago Police Department reports that there has
been a high volume of calls from the new Nail Salon on 67th and Stony
about the loitering issue. The owner is requesting an elevated patrol from
the SSA Patrol Team.
Tonya mentioned an incident that happened on 71st and Bennett with a
Communist Group that has caused a civil disturbance in the community.
Tonya mentioned that she spoken with the property owner about getting
rid of the organization by having the Department of Buildings incite
building code violations on them.
Merry Green of MPGP Events discussed the South Shore Summer Fest.
She discussed that she is behind on a few tasks for the Summer Fest.
She also presented the schedule and task list that she is working on. She
discussed that she needs a budget and final numbers to determine the
artist. It was discussed that the money raised through sponsorship
dollars should oﬀset the cost of the artist. Merry queried the group on if
they wanted multiple artist or just one artist. Commissioner Karim
discussed her concerns with marketing. Commissioner Karim stated her
ideas on how marketing should look for the event. There was also other
concerns mentioned around the Summer Fest such as; marketing, lack
of family options, lack of attraction to millennials, nothing for children to
do, moving forward with a talent. It was agreed that Merry Green and
MPGP will handle the vendors for the event.
Tonya then discussed the budget with the group. She suggested that we
raise the Tax Levy to increase our budget in the upcoming year. There
was some carry over from 2018 that was discussed.

 $163,000 was carried over from 2018
As of 13 Feb 2019 $108,237 was left In the carry over
Line item was 1.02 was increased by $15,000
$38,000 was allocated for Security from the carry over
Suellen moved to amend the 2019 budget to reflect the 2018 carryover
amount of $108,142.
Remarks and background information was given by the new Program
Manager, Kenneth Vasser
Jared Lewis motioned that an Ad-Hoc committee be formed to help
create and research continuous events around the South Shore Business
Corridor. The motioned was tabled by the Chair.
Meeting was adjourned by the chair at 8:47pm.

Jared Lewis
seconded the
motion

 