RESOLUTION SBD #19-28

ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of Pace, the Suburban Bus Division of the RTA, April 10,
2019.

DIRECTORS 10 Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin, Larson, Shepley
VOTING AYE: Soto, Tamley, Wells and Chairman Kwasneski.

DIRECTORS
VOTING NAY: 0

DIRECTORS 3 Hastings, Marcucci, and Schielke.
ABSENT:

(Seal)

 

 

Attest:

LindaKSwedlund, Acting Board Secretary

RESOLUTION SBD #19-28

poce 550 W. .Aigonquin Rood

Ariingron Heights. illinois 60005
Connecting Communities 8413648130
PoceBus.com

Pace, the Suburban Bus Division of the Regional Transportation Authority
550 West Algonquin Road
Arlington Heights, Illinois
Open Session of the Board of Directors
March 13, 2019

The Board of Directors of Pace, the Suburban Bus Division of the Regional Transportation
Authority, met in public session on Wednesday, March 13, 2019 at 4:30 pm. at Pace corporate
headquarters, 550 West Algonquin Road, Arlington Heights, Illinois, pursuant to notice.
Chairman Kwasneski led the assembly in the Pledge of Allegiance.

Chairman Kwasneski called the meeting to order at 4:30 pm.

Roll Call

Directors physically present: Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Soto,
and Chairman Kwasneski.

Director Canning moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to allow Directors Hastings,
Shepley and Tamley to attend via teleconference. The motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Directors Hastings, Shepley and Tamley joined the meeting via teleconference immediately
following the vote.

Director Wells arrived at 4:38 pm.

SBD #19-20 Resolution approving the minutes of the Open Session meeting of February 13,
2019.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the minutes of the
Open Session meeting of February 13, 2019. The motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Public Comment

Garland commented that on March 5, he and his wife called North Cook who sent an
inaccessible taxi. Further, the of?ce at their destination was not open at 8:00 am, and the driver
left them out in the cold until it opened at 8:30 am. He also commented that Elmwood Park

Emu-12:1 A. Kwasneski. Chairman

5.. Coming M. Corr Roger C. Cigar Don-id 5. ?ricr?n Kyle.- Fos'i?gs A: 
Tim-r1103 E. Main: Jeirew chv'iieicis .A-jrcn She-5;; Jar}: SOTO Knirer? lander Wei";
Board of Directors

2 c: r: by" Do.? at? Exec utive Director

March 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 2

approved a grade crossing separation that will affect Route 319?s Grand Avenue bus with detour
signs. Garland and his wife wear re?ective vests and said that the bus operators love them and
that they want to wear them when they are driving, especially in the morning while it is still dark.

Report of Chairman

Chairman Kwasneski, along with Pace staff, participated in congratulating twenty Pace?s
Pacesetter Award recipients on behalf of the Board. He appreciates staff? 3 efforts going above
and beyond.

Chairman Kwasneski and Rocky Donahue went to Spring?eld continuing outreach on the state
Capital Bill. The bill is gaining momentum and hearings are being held with individual
committees wherein he and Rocky participate.

Chairman Kwasneski attended several meetings throughout the region including the Will County
Governmental League and Southwest Council of Mayors. Chairman Kwasneski, Rocky and
Beth Gonzalez met with CenterPoint Properties to discuss the possibility of creating a Transit
Mobility Center at the Intermodal facilities. This would be a hub for larger buses to arrive with
passengers, then smaller vehicles would shuttle passengers to nearby businesses. While this is
part of Will County?s freight plan, Pace will look to implement similar centers in other regions
such as Bolingbrook/Romeoville and Pace?s collar counties. Staff is researching this project.

Chairman Kwasneski is forming a planning committee that Director Canning will Chair.
Directors Soto and Tamley are members. The committee will work on Pace?s Strategic Plan,
meeting on a regular basis with planning staff as they implement the plan. The committee will
provide updates to the Board. Additional board members are welcome to join the committee.
Any questions should be directed to Rocky or Lorraine Snorden.

Directors? Reports

Director Soto reported that the Pace Audit Committee met earlier. Director Soto acted as
Chairman on Director Tamley?s behalf. Two External Auditors from Baker Tilly were in
attendance and discussed external audit services and progress through the year ending December
2018. The next meeting with Baker Tilly will be June 12, 2019 and the results of the 2018
Financial Statement Audit will be reviewed. The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the
2019 Internal Audit Plan which will be on the April Board of Directors? meeting agenda. Internal
Audit discussed the status of current external audits, and the 2019 PTA Triennial Review of Pace
is in process. 

Director Soto congratulated Colette Gordon, Monica Brumm, and all of the Internal Audit staff
for their hard work.

March 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 3

Report of Executive Director

Rocky Donahue reported that overall ridership for the month of February was down 4% from last
year, largely due to inclement weather; however, the Heritage Division which runs the 1-55 Bus
on Shoulder was up 6.5% and North Shore, where Pace restructured service with CTA last
August, was up From a budget perspective, Pace is out?performing the budget by
approximately $2 million primarily due to the positive results on expenses. Pace continues its
push for capital funding from Spring?eld. Pace, RTA, CTA and Metra will be testifying to the
House Capital Appropriations Committee laying out their needs for the region.

Rocky and a number of staff attended the 2019 American Council for Engineering Companies
Excellence Award ceremony. Pace took home four awards. The CNG facility in Markham won
a merit award in the building technology category, as well as the Judge?s Choice Award. Pace?s
1-90 Barrington Road Pedestrian Bridge Park-n?Ride won the Transportation Honor Award as
well as the highest award of the evening?the Lincoln?s Grand Conceptor Award making it the
top engineering project in the state of Illinois for 2019. Rocky thanked all staff who worked on
the projects.

A Public Hearing will be held Wednesday, March 25th regarding Route 803. Earlier this year, the
manager of the Fox View Apartments in Carpentersville requested that Pace no longer enter their
property. As a result, Pace needs to make changes to the route, which changes will be
recommended at the April Board meeting.

Action Items

SBD #19-21 Ordinance authorizing approval of Board Member travel and business expenses
for February 2019.

Director Claar moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley and Wells. All Directors voted
Aye. Chairman Kwasneski abstained.

SBD #19-22 Ordinance authorizing amending the 2019 Capital Budget (Amendment 
increasing the FY2019 Capital Program from $96,014,576 to $97,844,951 due to the addition of
an RTA SCIP bond grant, an RTA discretionary grant, and an increase in Federal Section 5 339
funds.

Director Marcucci moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance.
The motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski.
All Directors voted Aye.

March 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 4

SBD #19-23 Ordinance authorizing a change order to Contract Number 227196 with John
Burns Construction Company for the Toyota Park Transit Center. This action increases the
contract total from $1,262,683.92 to $1,277,000.00, an increase of $14,316.08.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Canning seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance.
The motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski.
All Directors voted Aye.

SBD #19-24 Ordinance authorizing a change order to Contract Number 226759 with Clarity
Partners, LLC for the Pace Website Redesign. This action increases the contract total from
$220,480.00 to $406,380.00, an increase of $185,900.00.

Director Soto moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski.
All Directors voted Aye.

SBD #19-25 Ordinance authorizing service changes to Routes 755, 850, 851, 855 and the
discontinuation of Route 856.

Director Claar moved, and Director Schielke seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin,
Hastings, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski.
All Directors voted Aye.

Issues/Discussions/Reports

No reports were given.

Adjournment

Chairman Kwasneski asked for a motion to adjourn into Closed Session for the purposes of
discussing closed session minutes and pending litigation (2-C-11). Director Schielke
moved, and Director Larson seconded the motion. The motion passed with a unanimous vote
from the Board of Directors at 5:12 pm.

Reconvene

Chairman Kwasneski reconvened the Open Session of the Pace Board of Directors meeting at
5:30 pm.

Directors physically present: Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin, Larson, Marcucci, Schielke, Soto,
Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski.

March 13, 2019 Open Session Minutes Page 5

Directors Shepley and Tamley attended via teleconference.
Director Hastings was absent.

SBD #19-26 Resolution approving the minutes of the Closed Session meeting of February 13,
2019.

Director Schielke moved, and Director Carr seconded a motion to approve the Resolution. The
motion passed with a unanimous vote.

SBD #19-27 Ordinance approving action in the case of Joseph Simmons v. Pace; Illinois
Workers Compensation Commission No.: 15 WC 05329 as discussed in Closed Session.

Director Canning moved, and Director Soto seconded a motion to approve the Ordinance. The
motion passed with the following roll call vote: Directors Canning, Carr, Claar, Guerin, Larson,
Marcucci, Schielke, Shepley, Soto, Tamley, Wells, and Chairman Kwasneski. All Directors
voted Aye.

Chairman Kwasneski commented that this is National Procurement Month and thanked the
Procurement Department for all of their hard work.

There being no further business, Chairman Kwasneski asked for a motion and a second to
adjourn the meeting.

Director Carr moved, and Director Larson seconded a motion to adjourn the Pace Board of
Directors meeting. The motion passed with a unanimous vote. The meeting adjourned at 5:32
pm.

The next regular meeting of the Pace Board of Directors will be held on Wednesday, April 10,
2019 at 4:30 pm. at Pace Corporate Headquarters, 550 West Algonquin Road, Arlington
Heights, Illinois.

WW

Karen Kase
Acting Secretary, Board of Directors

