301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, lL 60616

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
March 19, 2019 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; Dr. Sonat Birnecker Hart; Roger J. Kiley; Terrance B. McGann;
Juan A. Ochoa; Ronald E. Powell

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer;
Steve E. Georgas, Chief Security Of?cer; David Causton, SMG/McCormick Place; Matthew Simmons, Assistant
General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of Procurement; Pat Allen, Director of Labor Relations; Samina Kapadia, Assistant
General Counsel; Jason Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital Management; Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager,
Community Engagement and Special Events; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity Program Manager; Jeanette Swan,
Director of Internal Audit; Gloria Juarbe, Director of Human Resources; Samantha K. Johnson, Assistant Controller;
Lisa Nelson, Project Coordinator; Nicol Chervenak, Director of Planning and Program Management; Tom Ryan,
Superintendent of Engineering; Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick Place; Doug Bradley, Savor; David Whitaker,
Choose Chicago; Rufus Purnell, Resident; McCafferty, Hawthorne Strategy Group, Inc.; Aleks Granchalek,
Fifth Third; Maureen Jung, Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the December 11, 2018.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

A3. Appointment of Ethics Enforcer.
Chairman Hart appointed Patricia Brown Holmes as the Ethics Enforcer.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey introduced new board member, Dr. Birnecker Hart. Ms. Healey stated Ms. Clark, Mr.
Bormann, Mr. Simmons, and herself would be travelling to Spring?eld to testify forthe Transportation Network Providers
legislation.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the ?nancial results for February 2019 and the tax collections for February
2019.

Report from McCormick Place: Mr. Causton stated the International Home Housewares Show had 64,000
attendees representing 43 countries, and next year is changing its name to The Inspired Home Show. Mr. Causton
stated the Association for Science Education (ASE) had 10,000 attendees and the Chicago Comic Entertainment
Expo (C2E2) had 75,000 attendees. Mr. Causton stated America's Beauty Show is expected to have 45,000 attendees
at the end of March and ProFood Tech will host their event on campus in the upcoming weeks. Mr. Causton stated
Wintrust Arena hosted the DePaul University Men's Basketball vs Georgetown University; the 2019 Big East Women's
Basketball Tournament; rehearsal for a Private Event for pro gaming; and at the end of the month the NCAA 2019
Women's Regional Basketball Tournament.


April 23, 2019

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5lh Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

VLF 7

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss item C1 and
litigation. Upon motion duly made by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
unanimously voted to convene in Executive Session.

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

Ci.

D1.

D2.

D3.

D4.

D5.

D6.

Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the December 11, 2018 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item C1.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Amendment for Lobbying Services.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D1.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Amendment for Marketing, Sales, and Services.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Birnecker, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D2.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Amendment for Hyatt Regency McCormick Place Hotel
Management Services.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D3.

Consideration of Approval of Wintrust Bank MBE WBE Contractor/Subcontractor Lending
Program.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Birnecker, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D4.

Consideration of Approval of One Time Purchase of Art Pieces.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D5 - "Red Alert," Artist Gary Kulak.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D5 - "Summer Tree," Artist Ruth Migdal.

Consideration of Approval of New Construction Contract for Installation of Neutral Host Distributed
Antenna System in the Hyatt Regency McCormick Place Hotel.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D6


April 23, 2019

D7.

D8.

D9.

D10.

D11.

D12.

D13.

D14.

D15.

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Consideration of Approval of New Construction Contract for Office Build Out -5th Building.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D7.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Wayfinding and Signage Consultant.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D8.

Consideration of Approval of New Master Professional Services Contracts for Professional Design,
Engineering, and Consulting Services.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D9.

Consideration of Approval of New Reference Contract for Of?ce Furniture.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D10.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Food Service Consultant.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Birnecker, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D11.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 19-01 Designating Wintrust Bank as a Depository
for MPEA Funds and Authorizing Pledge of Deposit Account.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D12.

Consideration of Approval of Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority Project Revenue Bonds,
Series 2019 Term Sheet.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Birnecker, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D13.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 19-02 Resolution Designating Authorized
Signatories.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D14.

Consideration of Approval of Operating Budget for FY 2020, 2021, 2022.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Birnecker, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D15.


April 23, 2019

D16.

D17.

D18.

D19.

D20.

D21.

D22.

D23.

D24.

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom. 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Consideration of Approval of Labor Agreement Projectionists Union, Local 110 IATSE.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D16.

Consideration of Approval of Labor Agreement Make-Up Artists and of Local 476
and Arie Crown Theater.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D17.

Consideration of Approval to End Retention of Audio Recordings of MPEA Board Meeting Executive
Session Minutes for the following Dates: January 17, 2017; February 21, 2017; April 18, 2017; May
16, 2017; and June 13, 2017.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D18.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension of Bond Counsel Services.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D19.

Consideration of Approval of Settlement of Attorney Fees.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Birnecker, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D20.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Air Filters.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D21.

Consideration of Approval of New Contracts for Rapid Response Construction Services and
Electrical Contractors.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D22.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension for Motors Supply and Repair, Variable Frequency
Drives Diagnostics and Repair.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D23.

Consideration of Approval of Reference Contract for Equipment Rental and Service.


April 23, 2019

0

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Du I CHMI hill?

D25.

D26.

D27.

E2.

E3.

Adjournment

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Birnecker, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D24.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension for Water Treatment Chemicals and Services.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D25.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension for Roofing Repair and Emergency Services.

Moved by Member Ochoa, seconded by Member Powell, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D26.

Consideration of Approval of Contract Extension for Inspection and Maintenance Services of Scaffold
Systems and Fall Protection Systems.

Moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Birnecker, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D27.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA 19-03 Honoring Ronald E. Powell.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item E2.

Consideration of Approval of Resolution No. MPEA19-04 Honoring Darka Papushkewych.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present voted
approving item E3.

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member Powell, seconded by Member Kiley, and the meeting
was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

Approved: April 23, 2019 Secretary/Treasurer Wssistant Secretary


April 23, 2019

