    

500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, Ml 48226

CODE EDC 19-04-02-311

APPROVAL OF MINUTES OF MARCH 26, 2019 MEETING

RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of March 26, 2019 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in such

minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Economic Development
Corporation.

April 23, 2019

  

. is: 
5130 Griswoks, Suite 2200
netmit, HI 48226

 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING
TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2019 8:30 AM.

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT: Marsha 

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
PRESENT:

SPECIAL DIRECTORS
ABSENT:

OTHERS PRESENT:

Kimberly Clayson
Linda Forte

Chris Jackson
Kwaku Osei
Matthew Roling
Jonathan Quarles

Maurice Cox (Ex-Officio)
Damon Hodge

John Naglick (Ex-Of?cio)
Thomas Staliworth

None

None

Pierre Batten 
Malinda Jensen 
Paul Kako 
Jennifer Kanalos 
Andrew Lucco 
Rebecca Nevin 
Betsy Paiazzola (HRD)
Mariangela Pledl 
Orza Robertson 

  

a
509 Griswotd, Suite 2209
Detroit, MI 48226

 

MINUTES OF THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS REGULAR MEETING

TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 2019

DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION

500 GRISWOLD, SUITE 2200

8:30 AM.

CALL TO ORDER

Noting that a quorum was present, Mr. Roling, Treasurer and Acting Chair, called the Reguiar
meeting of the Economic Development Corporation Board of Directors to order at 8:42 am.

GENERAL
Approvai of Minutes

Mr. Roling asked if there were any additions, deletions or corrections to the minutes of the
February 26, 2019 Regular Board meeting. Hearing none, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Mr. Staiiworth, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resolution Code EDC 19-03-02-
310 was unanimously approved.

Ms. Bruhn stated that she had a request. She was not at the meeting but would like the write?ups
for the Motor City Match cash awards to reflect the recipient?s track record, the history of the
group, the equity they are bringing to the project, and what the source of the remaining funds is
going to be. Mr. Rafferty acknowledged Ms. Bruhn?s request and stated that they will include that
information in the future.

PROJECTS

Mr. Robertson informed that he would like to present Project Item ll first, and then go back to item
I.

CDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Award: Jos Campau Greenway Construction Project 
Request to Approve Construction Contract with 2 Contractors, inc. for the Joe Campau
Greenway Construction Protect

Mr. Robertson reported that consistent with the City?s CDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Grant,
for which the EDC is a subrecipient, the City of Detroit Housing Revitalization Department 
and the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit assembled an EDC bid
package to obtain competitive solicited bids for the construction of the Joseph Campau Greenway

March 26, 2019

  

axons: Divan-Erma it?;
509 Griswoid, Suite 2200
Detroit, Mi 48226

 

(the ?Project?) that follows the historic Jos Campau Right-of?Way. lt wiil complement the existing
efforts to further establish the City?s greenway network and wilt provide critical connections from
Detroit neighborhoods to key Detroit destinations.

The Project begins at the intersection of Joseph Campau Avenue and East Vernor Highway and
continues for approximately one?mile south to the intersection of West Jefferson Avenue and Joe
Campau. A future phase of the Project will extend the greenway further south to the Detroit
Riverwalk. Upon its completion, the Project will provide accessibie pedestrian circulation and will
include the cleanup and restoration of the existing pedestrian corridor, site furnishings, improved
storm water management raingardens, and landscaping, among other things.

The EDC staff issued a Request for Proposals on July 17, 2018 for construction services
related to the Project. The respondents to the RFP submitted proposals, which were reviewed
by the EDC and its engineering team to determine the most responsive firm to complete the
Project. Proposals were received on August 10, 2018.

The EDC received three (3) responses to the RFP:
Z. Contractors, Inc. (Sheiby Township) - $3,386,703.55
Warren Contractors (Shelby Township) - $3,473,259.58
Contractors (Detroit) - $4,181,568.40

The EDC staff reviewed the proposals and determined that the lowest and most qualified proposal
from Contractors, Inc. to be most responsive, consistent with CDBG procurement guidelines. 
Contractors, Inc. is a Shelby Township based contractor with experience in performing the
services as described in the RFP. Contractors, Inc. proposed a not-to~exceed amount of
Three Million Three Hundred Eighty?Six Thousand Seven Hundred Three and 55/100
(3,386,703.55) Doilars.

The Project is expected to be completed over a twenty-four (24) month period commencing in the
Summer/Fail of 2019 to facilitate the required access and through traffic to the adjacent
properties. Contractors, Inc. is to complete the Project in two phases and in accordance with
the following budgeted amounts:

Phase 1 Construction 2019 Robert Bradby to Jefferson - 

Phase 2 Construction 2020 Vernor to Robert Bradby - 

Phase 2 construction is contingent upon the EDC receiving the required funding to complete the
project from HRD.

EDC staff is requesting the EDC Board of Directors to authorize the execution of a Construction
Agreement with Contractors, Inc. to provide the construction services as expressed exceed price of Three Million Three Hundred Eighty Six Thousand Seven Hundred

March 28, 2019

  

interiors; attenuation
508- Griswotd, Suite 2200
Detroit, tit! 68226

 

Three and 55/100 (3,386,703.55) Dollars; provided that until 'such time as funding sufficient for
Phase 2 is secured from HRD, oniy Phase 1 construction wiil be authorized.

EDC staff is also recommending that an owner?s contingency of approximately ten (10) percent
of the contract value or Three Hundred Eighty-Six Thousand Seven Hundred and 00/100
(386,700.00) Dollars be established to be dispersed upon the authorization of any two officers, or
any one of the of?cers?and any of the authorized agents of the EDC. A resolution is attached for
your consideration.

Mr. Jackson questioned why only three bids were received and if there was some unique type of
construction that is taking place where special expertise is required. He doesn?t understand why
oniy one Detroit company applied and wondered if a betterjob could be done seeking out Detroit?
based businesses. Mr. Robertson advised that the protocol for issuing RFPs has been stepped
up by placing the RFP on the DEGC website, as well as the or BidNet website that expands
the outreach to other states, which has resulted in a significant increase in responses on other
RFPs.

Ms. Clayson stated that this is a Phase and Phase ll contract and asked if the contract is written
so that EDC is not obligated for Phase il in the event the money does not come in. Mr. Robertson
answered ?yes.? Ms. Ciayson added that she had a minor point of clarification. In the second
paragraph she believes it should say ?East? Jefferson and Joseph Campau. Mr. Robertson
advised that she was correct.

Mr. Jackson asked if this RFP could have been advertised in Detroit?based publications. Ms.
Navin replied that the federal government does not all that with federal funds. Mr. Jackson asked
if that could be done for other non-federal contracts.

Ms. Jensen informed that for the Equalization Program, we were asked that question by City
Council a few years ago and, in the past, the EDC and the other authorities did participate. At
the time that the response to City Council was prepared, the contracts were not significant enough
to participate in that Program. That is something we can look into again, because it has been
several years since the EDC used the Equalization Program.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Staliworth, seconded by Ms. Clayson, Resolution Code EDC 19-03-
95?08, was approved, with Ms. Forte abstaining and Mr. Jackson voting against.

CDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Award: Jos Campau Greenwav Construction Protect?
Request to Approve Professional Construction Engineering Inspection Contract with
Mannik Smith Group for the Joe Campau Grenwav Construction Protect

Mr. Robertson stated that this contract is 100% related to the Joseph Campau contract and is
consistent with the City?s CDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Grant, for which the EDC is a

March 26, 2019

    

ass-a;
500 Griswotd, Suite 2200
Detroit. Mi 48226

subrecipient, the City of Detroit Housing Revitalization Department and the Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit assembled an EDC bid package to obtain
competitive soiicited bids for Construction Engineering and inspection Services for the
Joseph Campau Greenway Project (the ?Project") that follows the historic Jos Campau Right-ob
Way. It will compiement the existing efforts to further establish the City's greenway network and
will provide critical connections from Detroit neighborhoods to key Detroit destinations.

The Project begins at the intersection of Joseph Campau Avenue and East Vernor Highway and
continues for approximately one?mile south to the intersection of West Jefferson Avenue and Joe
Campau. A future phase of the Project wili extend the greenway further south to the Detroit
Riverwalk.

The EDC staff issued a Request for Proposals on July 31, 2018 for Services. The
respondents to the RFP submitted Proposals, which were reviewed by EDC Staff to determine 
the most responsive firm to provide a future cost proposai for related activities as described
in the RFP. Proposals were received August 23, 2018.

The EDC received two (2) responses to the RFP:

TYME Consulting Engineers, (500 Griswold, Suite 2850, Detroit) - $399,123.00
Mannik Smith Group (65 Cadillac Square, Suite 3311, Detroit) - $261,800.00

The EDC staff reviewed the proposals and determined that the proposai submitted by Mannik
Smith Group to be most responsive, consistent with CDBG procurement guidelines. Mannik
Smith Group is a Detroit based contractor with experience in performing the services as
described in the scope of work. Mannik Smith Group proposed a not to exceed amount of Two
Hundred Sixty?One Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100 Dollars.

EDC staff is requesting the EDC Board of Directors to authorize a Professional Services
Agreement ("Agreement") with Mannik Smith Group (the ?Agreement") to provide the requested
services as expressed exceed price of $261,800.00.

EDC staff is also recommending that an owner?s contingency of approximately ten percent 
of the contract value or $26,180.00 be established to be dispersed upon the authorization of any
two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any of the Authorized Agents of the EDC. A resolution
is attached for your consideration.

Ms. Forte asked if we had advertised this contract in Detroit publications. Mr. Robertson replied
that his answer is the same for this RFP as the one previously discussed.

Mr. Stallworth asked what is going on with this project since it seems to have taken a long time
since the RFP. Mr. Robertson answered that with this particuiar project, it is the Declared Disaster
Recover Funds and there was a small issue securing the funds. So, the funds for the first Phase
of the project have been secured and are working on securing the funds for the second phase.

March 26, 2019

  

. (annexation
500 Griswotd, Suite 2208
Detroit, HI 48228

 

Ms. Palazzoia from HRD explained why it has taken so tong and stated that there was never a
question of the funding being in place.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Jackson, seconded by Ms. Forte, Resolution Code EDC 19-03-95-07
was unanimously approved.

Motor City Match: Recommendation to Extend Award Deadline and Change Protect
Address

Mr. Batton stated that on June 1, 2015, the EDC's Motor City Match program began accepting
applications for Round 1 of the Business Owner Award Track, including the ?Cash" Award Track.
The ?Cash? Award Track awards businesses who have a business plan, a secured space, and
funds avaiiable to invest in their project a grant up to $100,000 to assist in the business? project.

Since June 1, 2015, the EDC has awarded Cash grants to 159 businesses in the City of Detroit
and, pursuant to the terms of the grant agreement executed between the EDC and the awardees,
awardees are required to access their grant within one (1) year from the date of board approval
to use its "Cash? award. While many awardees are able to complete their respective project within
the one (1) year term, eight (8) awardees (the ?Awardees?) were unable to secure all of the
financing required for the project and have experienced other unexpected delays which prevented
the Awardees from completing their project within a year.

in order for the Awardees to complete their project and use the funding under their respective
?Cash? grant awards, EDC staff recommends that the one- (1) year term for ?Cash? award period
be extended by one (1) additional year, through March 31, 2020, for the following Awardees:

The Congregation: The Congregation, a Round 8 grantee, is a community space and cafe
located in a formerly vacant church near the Historic Boston Edison area. The Congregation
is part of a larger project and needed to wait for financing to come together for the entire deai
before securing their loans. The project will be funded by loans from the DEGC, Michigan
Women Forward, and Detroit Development fund.

Cuisine, LLC: Cuisine, a Round 9 grantee, serves classic American fare and
has been operating successfully as a carryout?only restaurant for over a year. The new
location will allow the business to meet growing demand and provide sit-down service for
customers. It is located at 19329 Livernois adjacent to MCM winners Narrow Way Cafe
(Round 6) and Bronzed ?n Glow (Round 14). encountered delays in financing around
securing a liquor iicense. Construction is underway, and opening is expected in early summer.

Olive Seed: Olive Seed, a Round 9 grantee, is a natural health and wellness provider offering

workshops, cooking demonstrations, consuiting services, and carefuliy selected completely
natural products. The business has been operating out of the suburbs for seven years and is

March 26, 2019

  

anemic 

500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, 48226

 

moving their business to the City of Detroit. Their new location is in MCM building 269 Walker
Street, Round 10 grantee Pembury Holdings. Olive Seed has secured financing after
completing a re-design of the space.

Detroit River Sports: Detroit River Sports, a round 10 grantee, is a kayak tour company that
has been operating for ?ve years providing education tours and promoting tourism along the
Detroit river. Their permanent physical retail location for in-take of tour participants and sell
basic snacks and beverages and will house Round 12 grantee Coriander Kitchen. Detroit
River Sports encountered design challenges around the canal sea wall, and secured financing
after working through design issues. The project is aiming for completion in June.

Drizzle Dreams: Drizzle Dreams, a Round 10 grantee, is a manufacturer of hand-dipped
chocolate treats including fruit, candy, and other snacks. Locating in a Motor City Match
property, the business will operate a small retail storefront in a prime location on the first floor
of the Madison building, which also houses Round 3 cash awardee Bamboo Detroit. Buildout
will begin in April and construction is expected to take 90 days.

J.P. Kush Associates: Round 10 grantee J.P. Kush Associates will operate a full-service .
benefits insurance agency in a building at 3506 Gratiot, moving its headquarters from Troy to
Detroit into an old public library building. The renovation of this historic building will include a
co-working space and resource center on the ground floor. Construction is underway and
should be completed this summer.

Further, in addition to extending the following ?Cash? award grants by a period of one (1) year,
EDC staff is also recommending that the location of the following Awardees be updated to reflect
each Awardee?s new address:

Slyde: Slyde, a Round 2 grantee, is a quick service slider restaurant that will serve beer and
wine. It was initially awarded as part of a larger project located at 91344 Livernois. That project
fell through after complications around liquor licensing and the building owner subsequently
selling the building. Slyde has secured a new location at 3700 3rd Street. They will begin
construction in April.

Plum Health Direct Primary Care: A Round 5 grantee, Plum Health offers direct primary care
to uninsured, under insured or fully insured patients. Plum?s business model allows them to
offer more affordable care to those who need it most. Plum Health originally planned to locate
at 607 Shelby, but will now be located in the Corner, at Michigan and Trumbull. Construction
will begin April 

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.
Mr. Osei questioned of the cash grant awardees, how many of them have been able to take

advantage of the financing that we are offering to them. Mr. Batton replied of the 159 awardees
to date that have been awarded cash grants, 54 have opened their doors for business. Four

March 26, 2019

 

Detroit, ?it 48226

businesses have unfortunately ciosed, but those numbers are strong. We are making sure that
the businesses have access to the technical assistance that we are offering and making sure they
understand the business side of things.

Ms. Forte asked what the criteria is before the check is written to the business. Mr. Batten replied
that first is to make sure the business has secured 100 percent of their financing. Second, we
look at a detailed Sources and Uses of the funding.

Mr. Osei questioned if possibly the MCM Program rounds should be twice a year rather than
quarterly to give the businesses enough time. Mr. Batton replied that could help but the current
setup of the Program is quarterly, so we are executing within the current constraints and current
ruies. Mr. Rafferty expiained that since we?ve been running the program, attaining a has
been something on the top of our minds and we?ve been evaluating the benefits and costs. Mr.
Batten has been doing very well. It is taxing for the team, but the benefit is four rounds a year. if
you are an appiicant and may miss something, you don?t have to wait another six months or a
year to apply.

Ms. Forte added that Mr. Rafferty raised a point that she wouid have made relative to cadence
with respect to linking it to opportunity. She stated that she is really focused on sustainability, but
she is also wanting to ensure that there is energy and enthusiasm for the opportunity and that
people feel like they can tap in. Having to wait for a deal might be the difference between kiiling
an inspiration for a deal and it is her opinion that we need more of those not less at this point.

Mr. Stailworth stated that it seems as though the applicants are moving along in the process very
well and eventuaily wiil get to the finish line and be opening their doors in a reasonabie timefrarne.

Ms. Clayson informed that she aiso believes that it shouldn?t be an easy process and that people
aren?t just moving it through, so they can open their doors. it should be a slow process to getting
to open, and this is an okay thing.

Mr. Rolling opined that 50 out of 154 is something to be proud of.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the foliowing action:

On a motion by Ms. Forte, seconded by Ms. Bruhn, Resotution Code EDC 19-03-91?85
was approved, with Ms. Clayson abstaining.

Motor City Match: Professional Services Agreement for Medv?is Jackson

Ms. Piedi advised Motor City Match is currently accepting applications for Round 16 and has
awarded over 1500 businesses from all Motor City Match and Motor City Re-Store tracks to date.

With recent staff departures and projected program modifications, there is a short term need to
have a contractor complete certain services in connection with the Motor City Match program.

March 26, 2019

  

Ratios-ii: 
sou Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, Ml 48226

 

Specifically, the services will include, but not be limited to, supporting Motor City Match and small
business communication strategy through content creation and other activities as needed;
supporting special projects and the Motor City Match Business Plan Track operation, and
reporting and data collection. Deliverables will include registering past business plan awardees
for classes, creating content calendar for Motor City Match/Motor City Re-Store social media,
updating and managing business plan awardee data tracker and providing quarterly performance
reports to senior program management.

EDC staffs recommends the retention of Medvis Jackson to provide such services. Mr. Jackson
served as a fellow for Challenge Detroit in 2018, has worked closely with a number of EDC staff
members and has familiarity with the Motor City Match Program. Staff seeks authorization to enter
into a personal services agreement with Mr. Jackson, with a term of four (4) months during which
Mr. Jackson will provide up to 600 hours of services at an hourly rate of $25.00/hr. for an amount
not to exceed Fifteen Thousand and 00/100 

A resolution was included review and consideration.
Subsequent to a discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Ms. Clayson, seconded by Mr. Osei, Resolution Code EDC 19?03-91?86
was unanimously approved.

Small Business and Commercial Corridor Revitaligation Program: Community
Development Block Grant Consultant Serviced

Ms. Pledl reported the EDC had previously approved a professional services agreement (the
?Agreement?) with Hennessey Engineers, Inc. (?Hennessey?) to provide CDBG consultant
services for the Programs. The Agreement has an effective date of September 1, 2018 with a
one (1) year term, with the ability to renew for up to two (2) additional one?year periods. The
scope of services to be provided under the Agreement is further described in the scope of services
which was included in the board material as Exhibit A.

The EDC recommends an amendment to the Agreement (the ?First Amendment?) to add
additional CDBG funds for Hennessey to continue to provide the scope of services. As you are
all aware, the CD86 Motor Match Program Program") was recently monitored by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development through the City of Detroit. The City
has implemented changes to the MCM Program, which resulted in additional requirements and
further restrictions to the MCM Program.

Due to this unexpected monitoring by HUD, Hennessy has reached the not?to-exceed amount
stated in the Agreement. Therefore, the EDC staff requests authorization from the Board to enter
into the First Amendment to add additional funds in the amount of up to Eighty Thousand and
00/100 until the contract terminates on August 31, 2019.

The execution of the First Amendment will allow Hennessey to perform additional work required

March 26, 2019

 ti: out: manormm Convention
- 50$ Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, Mi 43225

    

to ensure the compliance with HUD regulations and to meet all the new standards required by
City of Detroit. Hennessey has provided excellent comprehensive CDBG consultant services for
the Programs and has the skill and expertise needed to further ensure that MCM Program remains
in compliance with all the CDBG regulations.

A resolution was included for the Board?s consideration.

Mr. Stallworth questioned how the amount of $80,000 was arrived at. Ms. Pledl stated that they
had hoped that the current contract would take them through the end of the fiscal year, but the
level of work that was required for the reporting and staff training used up the contract amount
sooner than expected. Mr. Stallworth stated that he was looking for a little more specificity of
what the EDC was receiving for the $80,000. Ms. Pledl responded that they had to make some
major changes to how they report, how they invoice, how they qualify the providers, and how they
qualify and check the awardees and it has been a very long process. Mr. Rafferty added that
Hennessey has been with the DEGC since the beginning of the Motor City Match Program.
Because federal funding and reporting is very compiicated, it made sense to have that technical
support in order to make sure at the end of the year we are compliant. Mr. Stallworth stated that
he just wanted to make sure that we don?t get lax in making these decisions and just wanted to
know how we got to the $80,000.

Ms. Bruhn asked if it would be possible for the Board to see the HUD Report that requested these
changes to the Motor City Match and Motor City Re~Store Programs. Mr. Rafferty stated he would
be happy to share it with the Board.

Mr. Osei said that at the end of this contract, it wouid be helpful to have other vendors to consider
in the selection process. Ms. Pledl advised that the contract will be put out for bid in August 2019.

Subsequent to the discussion, the Board took the following action:

On a motion by Mr. Stallworth, seconded by Ms. Forte, Resolution Code EDC 19?03-91-
87 was unanimously approved.

ADMINISTRATION

Ms. Kanalos informed that the DEGC has purchased tablets for the Board Members? use, with

the goal being to go paperless by the beginning of the new fiscal year July 1. Board Administration

staff researched various software programs and decided on one calied Directorpoint. Board
members will be receiving an invitation from Directorpoint shortly.

This report was for information only and no Board action was taken.

OTHER MATTERS

PUBLIC COMMENT

March 26, 2019

    

Wigwam-:35 

500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI. 48226

ADJOURNMENT

With there being no further business to come before the Board, Mr. Ruling adjourned the meeting
at 9:41 am.

March 26, 2019

CODE EDC 19-03-02-310
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

OF MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 26, 2019 MEETING
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the Regular meeting of February 26, 2019 are
hereby approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set

forth in such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the
Economic Development Corporation.

March 26, 2019

500 Griswold,Suife 2200 Detroit Michigan 48226 (3i3) 963-2940

CODE 
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

CDBG DECLARED DISASTER RECOVERY AWARD: JOS CAMPAU GREENWAY
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT: REQUEST TO APPROVE PROFESSIONAL
CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING 8: INSPECTION CONTRACT WITH MANNIK SMITH
GROUP FOR THE JOS CAMPAU GREENWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT

WHEREAS, consistent with the City?s CDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Grant,
for which the EDC is a subrecipient, EDC staff seeks to construct the Joe Campau
Greenway construction project (the ?Project?) which will complement the existing efforts to
further establish the City?s greenway network and will provide critical connections from
Detroit neighborhoods to key Detroit; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff determined that it is necessary to obtain Professional
Construction Engineering lnspection Services to perform the scope of work described
in Exhibit A attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, on July 31, 2018 the EDC staff issued a Request for Proposals
for Construction Engineering 8 Inspection services; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received 2 bids August 23, 2018, reviewed the Proposals,
and has recommended that the Construction Engineering 8inspection firm of Mannik
Smith Group (?Mannik?) provide the services; and

WHEREAS, Mannik wiil provide the services for the Project at a not-to
exceed amount of Two Hundred Sixty?One Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100
Dollars; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the scope of work for the Project.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of an Agreement with Mannik to perform the
services for the Project in a manner consistent with the RFP for a contract not to
exceed amount of Two Hundred Sixty-One Thousand Eight Hundred and 00/100
Dollars.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
establishment of an owner?s contingency in the amount of Thousand One
Hundred Eighty and 00/100 Dollars to address requirements for unforeseen
conditions and to be expended at the direction of any two Of?cers or any one of the
Officers and any of the Authorized Agents or any two Authorized Agents of the EDC.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any of the Authorized Agents or any two
Authorized Agents of the EDC to negotiate and execute any and all documents necessary
to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution, including but not limited to change
orders for use of owner?s contingency funds.

500 Griswold?uite 2200 Deiroit,MlChian 48226 (313) 963?2940

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any of?cer or
authorized agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

March 26, 2019

CODE EDC 19-03-95-08
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

CDBG DECLARED DISASTER RECOVERY AWARD: JOS CAMPAU GREENWAY
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT REQUEST TO APPROVE CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT WITH A CONTRACTORS, INC. FOR THE JOS CAMPAU GREENWAY
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT

WHEREAS, consistent with the City?s CDBG Declared Disaster Recovery Grant,
for which the EDC is a subrecipient, EDC staff seeks to construct the dos Campau
Greenway project (the ?Project?) which will include, among other things, the cleanup and
restoration of the existing pedestrian corridor, site furnishings, improved storm water
management raingardens, landscaping, and a, future connection with the Detroit
Rivenrvalk; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff determined that it is necessary to obtain construction
services to perform the scope of work described in Exhibit A attached hereto; and

WHEREAS, on July 17, 2018 the EDC staff issued a Request for Proposals
for construction services; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff received three (3) bids August 10, 2018, reviewed the
proposals, and has recommended the Construction ?rm of Contractors, Inc. (the
?Contractor?) for the construction of the Project; and

WHEREAS, the Contractor has proposed to construct the Project at a mot?to
exceed amount of Three Million Three Hundred Eighty-Six Thousand Seven Hundred
Three and 551100 (3,386,703.55) Dollars and which will occur in two phases, beginning in
Summer/Fall 2019 with Phase 1 totaling $1,720,995.15 and Phase 2, contingent upon the
EDC receiving the necessary funding from the City of Detroit Housing Revitalization
Department, totaling $1,665,708.30; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board determined that the staff recommendation is
reasonable and consistent with the scope of work for the Project.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a Construction Agreement with the Contractor
to perform the construction services for the Project in a manner consistent with the RFP
for a contract-not-to exceed amount of Three Million Three Hundred Eighty Six Thousand
Seven Hundred Three and 551100 (3,386,703.55) Dollars, provided that until such time as
funding sufficient for Phase 2 is secured from HRD, only Phase 1 construction will be
authorized.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
the allocation of additional funds to address requirements for unforeseen conditions (an
?Owner's Contingency?) in the amount of Three Hundred Eighty Six Thousand Seven
Hundred and 00l100 (386,700.00) Dollars to be expended at the direction of any two
officers of the EDC (the ??Officers?) or any one of the Officers and any individual authorized
to act on behalf of the EDC (an ?Authorized any two Authorized Agents of the
EDC. 

500 Griswold,Suife 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 - (313) 9632940

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the EDC Board of Directors hereby authorizes
any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any of the Authorized Agents or any two
Authorized Agents of the EDC to negotiate and execute any and all documents necessary
to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution, including but not limited to change
orders for use of Owner?s Contingency funds.

BE iT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions. which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

March 26, 2019

CODE EDC 19-03-91~85
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR MATCH: RECOMMENDATION TO EXTEND AWARD DEADLINE AND
CHANGE PROJECT 

WHEREAS, the following businesses have been previousiy awarded a Motor City
Match ?Cash" Grant during various award rounds: Slyde, Plum Health Direct Primary Care,
the Congregation, Cuisine, Olive Seed, Detroit River Sports, Drizzle Dreams, and
JP. Kush Associates (collectively, the ?Awardees?); and

WHEREAS, Motor City Match Cash Awardees have one year from the date of
EDC Board approval to use their cash award; and

WHEREAS, due to delays in securing ?nancing, completing the project, and other
unforeseen obstacles, the Awardees were unable to complete the project and use all of
the Cash grant funds within the one-year term; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends that the Awardees Cash grant term be
extended by approximately one (1) year from to the date of this resolution to March 31 
2020;and

WHEREAS, two of the Awardees being Slyde and Plum Health Direct Primary
Care have changed their location from 19344 Livernois to 3700 3?d Street Detroit, Ml for
Slyde and 607 Shelby to the "Corner? at Michigan and Trumbull for Plum Health Direct
Primary Care; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

BE IT RESOLVED, EDC Board of Directors recommends that the one-year time
limit the Awardees have to make full use of grant funds be extended by approximately one
(1) year from the date of this resolution to March 31, 2020.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the EDC Board of Directors recommends that the
address for the previously approved Awardees, Slyde and Plum Health Direct Primary
Care, be updated to reflect the new project address being 3700 3"d Street Detroit, MI for
Slyde and the ?Corner" at Michigan and Trumbull for Plum Health Direct Primary Care.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Of?cers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to implement the
provisions and intent of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions, except that such acts were taken prior to the execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

March 26, 2019

500 Griswoid,3uiie 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (3i3) 963-2940

CODE EDC 19-03-91-86
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

MOTOR CITY MOTOR CITY RESTORE: PERSONAL SERVICES
AGREEMENT FOR MEDVIS JACKSON

WHEREAS, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
has developed small business and commercial corridor revitalization programs
known as Motor City Match and Motor City Re-Store (the ?Program?) at the request of the
City of Detroit (the ?City?) Mayor?s Of?ce; and

WHEREAS, due to recent staff departures and projected Program modifications,
EDC staff recommends the retention of a contractor to provide certain support services
for the Program; and

WHEREAS, EDC staff recommends the execution of a Personal Services
Agreement with Medvis Jackson for support services including, but not be limited
to, supporting Motor City Match and small business communication strategy through
content creation and other activities as needed; supporting special projects and the Motor
City Match Business Plan Track operation, and reporting and data collection, that will
provide for 600 hours of services at an hourly rate of $25.00/hr for an amount not to exceed
Fifteen Thousand and 00/100 for a four (4) month term beginning April 1,
2019 through Juiy 31, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE lT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the negotiation and execution of a PSA with Medvis Jackson to provide the
requested services for the not-to-exceed amount of Fifteen Thousand and 00/100


BE iT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shalt
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Officer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, reiating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.

March 26, 2019

500 Griswold,3ui?re 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (313) 963-2940

CODE EDC 19-03-91?87
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit

 

SMALL BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR PROGRAM:
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK TO CONSULTANT
CONTRACT WITH HENNESSEY

WHEREAS, the EDC administers the Motor City Match and Motor City Re-Store
programs (collectively, the ?Programs?) to revitalize Detroit?s commercial corridors and
grow neighborhood business investment using Community Development Block Grant
funds from the City of Detroit pursuant to a subrecipient agreement with the
City; and

WHEREAS, the EDC executed a professional services agreement (the
?Agreement?) with Hennessey Engineers, Inc. (?Hennessey?) for services necessary to
advise CDBG program design and to develop CDBG compliance and reporting systems,
as further described in the scope of services attached hereto as Exhibit A (the ?Work?);
and

WHEREAS, due to recent monitoring of the Programs by the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and changes to the Program required by the City, the
flow of Work under the Agreement has been greater than anticipated and the EDC staff
requests authorization from the Board to enter into an amendment to the Agreement (the
?First Amendment?) increasing the compensation payable to Hennessey by an amount of
up to Eighty Thousand and 00/100 and

WHEREAS, the EDC Board of Directors has determined that Staff?s
recommendation is appropriate and within the best interests of the Program.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the EDC Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the execution of the First Amendment with Hennessey to provide additional
funding for the Work in the amount of Eighty Thousand and 00/100 until the
contract terminates on August 31, 2019, which is subject to renewal up to two (2) additional
one-year periods for a period of one (1) year.

BE lT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any two Of?cers, or any one of the Officers
and any one of the Authorized Agents or any two of the Authorized Agents shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers and to take such actions as are necessary to implement the provisions and intent
of this resolution.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any Of?cer or
Authorized Agent of the EDC, in the name and on behalf of the EDC, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and rati?ed.

March 26, 2019

500 Griswold,SUi?re 2200 Detroit, Michigan 48226 (3l3) 963?2940

