Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
March 20th, 2019
Chicago Department of Public Health
333 S. State Street Chicago, IL 60640 Suit 200
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Joseph B. Starshak
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Juan M. Calderon
Victor M. Gonzalez
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Board Members Absent
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
March 20th, 2019
Chicago Department of Public Health
333 S. State Street Chicago, IL 60640 Suit 200

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:05 am by presiding Board Member, Steven Rothschild M.D.
Approval of Minutes: The January & February 2019 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner, Dr. Julie Morita, provided the following updates:
Overdose Prevention: As part of the Local Opioid Overdose Prevention and Response Project, CDPH
hosted a site visit with representatives from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and National
Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO) to build local capacity to address the opioid
epidemic. More than 40 local stakeholders attended planning sessions focused on community
engagement, harm reduction and the justice system.
Environmental Protections: Bolstering the Mayor’s legacy of more stringent environmental regulation to
protect health, the City Council passed two ordinances. The first requires contractors engaged in
sandblasting or grinding on commercial and large residential buildings to tell us the date they're starting
work. This will allow CDPH inspectors to ensure contractors are using safeguards to protect workers and
residents from inhaling silica and lead dust, which can cause severe health problems. The Council also
passed our ordinance establishing safety protocols for contractors who are digging in Streeterville or the
former Michael Reese Hospital site. These areas have radiation in the soil due to manufacturing facilities
located there in the early 1900s; workers and residents may be exposed if protocols aren't followed. The
new fine for noncompliance is $5,000-10,000.
Manganese: Watco Companies, announced in late February that after considering the concerns of the
community, Alderwoman Susan Sadlowski-Garza, the Chicago Department of Public Health (CDPH), and
the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), its Chicago Ferro Terminal will no longer handle bulk
concentrated manganese material, specifically high carbon manganese and silicon manganese in bulk
format at its location on the Calumet River on the southside of Chicago. Watco appreciates the advocacy
of Alderwoman Sadlowski-Garza and the EPA and CDPH in helping address the community’s concerns.
Drake School-Based Health Center Opening: I spoke at the ribbon cutting ceremony on March 4th for a
school-based health center located at Drake Elementary School. This new center, operated by the UIC
Mile Square, will serve both school and community. This is one of four new school-based health centers
opening as a result of the e-cigarette tax and TIF funding of ~$2.4 million the Mayor invested to improve
children’s health. The center at Steinmetz High School opened in 2016 and centers at Chicago Vocational
Career Academy and the new Englewood High School are slated to open this year.
Public Health System Assessment: On March 5th, CDPH and the Partnership for Healthy Chicago
convened nearly 100 partners for the Health Equity Capacity Assessment. This is one component of
CDPH’s community health assessment to advance health and racial equity, which will inform the next
iteration of our Healthy Chicago plan. Participants will assess the current functioning and capacity of our
public health system, providing insights on strengths, challenges, and opportunities to identify goals and
direction for improvement.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
March 20th, 2019
Chicago Department of Public Health
333 S. State Street Chicago, IL 60640 Suit 200
West Side United: CDPH participated in the West Side United (WSU) 2019 Community Convening on
March 5th at Malcolm X College. More than 400 residents, healthcare providers, community-based
organizations, faith leaders, employers and public agency partners joined together for a recap of last
year’s progress and 2019 plans for addressing community health in the following domains: healthcare,
education, neighborhood and physical environment, and economic investment. CDPH is a member of the
WSU leadership council and is partnering on key initiatives related to housing, maternal and child health,
and food insecurity.
Requests for Proposals: Chicago Department of Public Health has released multiple Request for Proposals
(RFP) this month; HIV Screening in Healthcare Settings, Short Term Housing Opportunities, Services for
person who use Drugs (HIV/HCV), Resiliency in Community after Stress and Trauma (ReCAST). For more
information, please refer to our website for alerts on the Health Data and Reports page.
Salmonella Exposure: The Chicago Department of Public Health (CDPH) is investigating an outbreak of
Salmonella, a bacteria that is a common cause of food poisoning. At least six people associated with the
outbreak consumed carnitas or other foods purchased on February 23 or 24, 2019, from the
Supermercado Rivera kitchen counter located at 4334 W. 51st St., Chicago. CDPH is monitoring closely for
additional reports of illness.

Comments by the Presiding Board Member: Dr. Rothschild, welcomed attendees to Board of Health meeting and
asked audience to identify which school they were representing and provided an overview of the Board’s Mission
and Vision.
Presentation: “Public Policy at CDPH: Process and Record” was present by Jesse Lava, Director of Policy.
Comments from the Board: Board members discussed multiple policy topics and issues in the City. Juan Calderon
raised the issue of rat infestation on the south and west side, HB-2814, and the need for the Board of Health to be
proactive to look at policies and prioritize public health issues. It was discussed that a mental health update to be
presented in Englewood to respond to concerns from February’s meeting.
Old Business:
•

Policy Resolutions: Board was presented with the climate change refugee resolution and provided.
Resolution will be presented again with new edits. The gun violence resolution is still in development and
to be present at next meeting.

New Business: None
Public Comments: None
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:36 am.

 