Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
January 16, 2019
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Victor M. Gonzalez
Joseph B. Starshak
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Juan M. Calderon
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
For the Department
Brian Richardson, Deputy Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
January 16, 2019
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:05 am by Dr. Lopez, Board President
Approval of Minutes: The December 2018 minutes were approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Deputy Commissioner, Brian Richardson, provided the following updates:
Teen Pregnancy: This week we announced Chicago’s teen birth rate hit a new low – 24.6 births per 1,000
teens. This is the lowest level since we first started tracking. Since 2010, we’ve seen a decline across every
ethnic group. African American teens, who historically have faced the greatest disparity, experienced the
greatest decline from 72.0 to 32.0 births per 1,000 – more than half. Though our rate is still slighting
higher than the national average, we continue to close that gap too. Since 2000 we’ve seen a 70 percent
drop overall, compared to a 57 percent nationwide decline.
City Club of Chicago: Dr. Morita also attended the City Club of Chicago’s event yesterday Tuesday, January
15th at Maggianos Banquets and spoke of the department’s impact and new efforts.
311 Caller System: With the new CHI 311 app, now you can report potholes as well as request mental
health services through the help of NAMI Chicago. Submit a city service request with photos or simply find
the answers you need while on the go. Download the new #CHI311 on iOS or Android and
visit http://311.Chicago.gov to learn more.
Expanding Lead Prevention Inspections: We plan to build on our new effort to inspect homes of children
with a blood lead level of at least 5mcg/dL, down from a threshold of 10mcg/dL. Using a new predictive
analytics model, we will launch the city’s first proactive lead inspections; we anticipate hiring an inspector
by spring 2019 dedicated solely to those homes most likely to cause lead poisoning. We will also hire four
staff to increase home visits and environmental inspections.
Supporting Newborns: Building on six months of community consultation and research, we will be
piloting a new system of coordinated perinatal referral for all Chicago families with newborns. Through a
nurse home visit, all families will receive an assessment and referral to a tailored set of services based on
their needs. This program will be paired with the distribution of a Chicago Newborn Welcome Kit.
Designed with the input of parents and providers, the kit will deliver key health and early learning
messages and point new parents to sources of support.
Staff Update: Brian Richardson is leaving his role as CDPH’s Deputy Commissioner. His new position will
be as Midwest Director at Lamda Legal.
Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez expressed difficulty in speaking about the chaos in the world but
assured that the Board is anchored to get the job done as people are counting on folks to do the right thing. The
government shutdown has presented multiple challenges; among them are the folks not getting a simple
paycheck. Dr. Lopez notes that some overlooked victims of the shutdown are the contractors.
Policy Update: Director of Policy, Jesse Lava, provided the following updates:
Policy presentation: Jesse will be giving a presentation to the Board in March or April on the policy team’s
work. This team often works in the background and we’d like to share our process and work over the past
couple of years.
Manganese: In 2014, CDPH imposed the country’s toughest regulations on petcoke and other bulk
materials that emit dust and can harm residents’ health and quality of life. CDPH is now moving to
regulate how manganese is handled. We proposed changes to City regulations on this issue, gave
residents two months to comment, and held a town hall on the subject to hear from residents directly.
We are planning to issue the final regulations within the next two weeks.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
January 16, 2019
DePaul Center, 333 South State Street
State progress: Governor Pritzker’s administration has noted several areas of need at the state including
better data collection and coordination among agencies, which we believe would improve the
effectiveness of health and social services. In addition, Pritzker has appointed Theresa Eagleson as the HFS
director. She was previously at the University of Illinois leading Medicaid innovation work. We look
forward to working with her.
Comments from Board: Board members were curious about the federal government shutdown and how
that affects CDPH and the city in general. The Mayor’s office in preparation and is asking departments to
notify its staff of any challenges because of the shutdown. CDPH has not been directly affected but there
would be concern of the Women, Infant, Child program would be the first have challenges. Members also
discussed the possibility of communicating with the governor about the positive impact of strengthening
IDPH’s health officer. Dr. Lopez also shared the history behind the Illinois State Board of Health and its
absence the past year due to the past governor’s decision to not appoint board members.
Presentation: “CDPH’s Community Health Assessment and Community Health Improvement Planning Process:
Working in Partnership to Address Health Equity” was presented by Sheri Cohen, Coordinating Planner. She
highlighted CDPH planning behind the new CHA/CHIP and invited board members to upcoming meetings.
Old Business:
•
•

Mercy Condolence: Board motions that a response is to be a letter rather than a resolution.
Policy Resolutions: There are no updates. Dr. Lopez states she will investigate the resolutions.

New Business: None
Public Comments: None
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:25 am

 