301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5th Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Film-"AH 

Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority
Board Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2018 9:00 AM.

Board Members Present: Brett J. Hart, Chairman; Jorge Ramirez*, Secretary/Treasurer; Roger J. Kiley; Terrance B.
McGann; Juan A. Ochoa

*Teleconference

Others Present: Lori T. Healey, Darka Papushkewych, General Counsel; Larita Clark, Chief Financial Of?cer;
David Winters, Chief Operations Officer; Matthew Simmons, Assistant General Counsel; Dao Ngo, Director of
Procurement; Pat Allen, Director of Labor Relations; Samina Kapadia, Assistant General Counsel; Stephanie Lovelace-
Nieves, Controller; Jason Bormann, Director of Treasury and Capital Management; Marilynn Rubio, Senior Manager,
Community Engagement and Special Events; Tiffany Petties, Business Diversity Program Manager; Gloria Juarbe,
Director of Human Resources; Lisa Nelson, Project Coordinator; Joseph T. Scheper, SMG/McCormick Place; Doug
Bradley, Savor; Pete Schurla, SMG/McCormick Place; David Whitaker, Choose Chicago; Marc Anderson, Choose
Chicago; Kathleen Candela, Deloitte Touche; Rufus Purnell, Resident; McCafferty, Hawthorne Strategy
Group, Inc. Maria Calderon, CEO Project Coordinator

General Matters:

Chairman Hart asked for a motion to permit Member Ramirez to participate via teleconference. Upon motion duly made
by Member Kiley and seconded by Member McGann, the remaining members present Unanimously voted passing the
motion.

A1. Roll Call: MPEA Chairman Hart, called the meeting to order at 9:00 am. and Ms. Calderon called
roll.

A2. Approval of Minutes: Chairman Hart called for the approval of the minutes of the Regular Board
Meeting of the October 30, 2018.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item A2.

Report from CEO: Ms. Healey stated Mr. Causton along with other staff members from SMG and MPEA were
attending Expo! Expol, International Association of Exhibitions and Events (IAEE's) Annual Meeting Exhibition. Ms.
Healey reported MPEA staff would be attending Cradles to Crayons for a day of service.

Report from CFO: Ms. Clark presented the financial results for November 2018 and the tax collections for November
2018.

Annual MPEA Financial Audit Report: Ms. Clark reported the committee held their meeting on November 20, 2018
where Deloitte Touche and Prado Renteria CPAs presented their ?ndings. The Audit Committee found the audit
to be an unquali?ed opinion and approved it to be presented at the Board meeting. Ms. Clark reported that there were
no signi?cant de?ciencies or material weaknesses identi?ed during the audit.

Executive Session: Chairman Hart asked for a motion to convene in Executive Session to discuss item C1. Upon
motion duly made by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the remaining members present unanimously
voted to convene in Executive Session.

rt'un- --. 

9..

301 East Cermak Road
Corporate Boardroom, 5?1 Floor
Chicago, IL 60616

Upon return from Executive Session, item C1 was presented for consideration and discussion.

Review of Covered Actions and Eligible Agreements:

C1.

D1.

D2.

D3.

D4.

Adjournment

Consideration of Approval of Executive Session Minutes of the October 30, 2018 Regular Board
Meeting.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present voted
approving item C1.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Marketing, Sales, and Services.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present veted
approving item D1.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for Marriott Rooftop License for Antenna Installation.

Moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Ochoa, and the remaining members present
voted approving item D2.

Consideration of Approval of New Contract for License Agreement for Use of Of?ce Space at the
Corporate Center.

Moved by Member Kiley, seconded by Member McGann, and the remaining members present voted
approving item D3.

Consideration of Approval of MPEA Resolution No. MPEA 18-04 Resolution Designating Wintrust
Bank as a Depository for Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority Funds.

Item D4 was withdrawn.

Chairman Hart moved to adjourn the meeting moved by Member McGann, seconded by Member Kiley, and the meeting
was adjourned by unanimous vote of the Board.

 

Approved: March 19, 2019 Assistant Secretary


March 19,2019

