MEETING OF THE HEALTH BENEFITS COMMITTEE OF THE RETIREMENT
BOARD OF THE COUNTY EMPLOYEES’ AND OFFICERS’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT
FUND OF COOK COUNTY AND EX OFFICIO FOR THE FOREST PRESERVE
DISTRICT EMPLOYEES’ ANNUITY AND BENEFIT FUND OF COOK COUNTY
70 West Madison, St, Suite 1925
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Minutes for the March 21, 2019, Meeting
The County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County and the Forest
Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County Fund are herein
collectively referred to as the “Fund.” All committee recommendations are preliminary in nature
and subject to review and approval by the full Retirement Board.
Call to Order and Roll Call:
Trustee Committee Members Present:

John Fitzgerald (Chair); Patrick McFadden;
Robert De Graff; Diahann Goode, Kevin Ochalla

Staff Present: Regina Tuczak, Executive Director; Jane Hawes,
Director of Health Benefits; Rachelle Howliet, Senior
Health Benefits Specialist: Tonya Jackson, Health
Benefits Specialist
Others Present: Daniel Levin; Cristina De Leon, Segal Consulting.

Public Comment: Chairman Fitzgerald asked if anyone present would like to address the
Committee. There being no public comment, the meeting continued.
Review and Consideration of November 14, 2018, Health Benefits Committee Meeting
Minutes: Trustee McFadden made a motion to approve the November 14, 2018, meeting minutes;
Trustee DeGraff seconded the motion. The motion was approved.
Segal Contract Extension: Jane Hawes reported that Segal is offering to extend terms of their
three year contract for an additional year until 12/31/21. Under Segal’s existing contract with the
Fund, an annual fee of $170,000 includes consulting services performed every year and additional
services provided once during the three year contract period. On-going consulting services
performed each year account for $107,000 of Segal’s total annual fee, whereas $63,000 is used to
pay for additional consulting projects. Segal’s proposal continues the same fee structure and gives

County Employees’ and Officers’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
Forest Preserve District Employees’ Annuity and Benefit Fund of Cook County
70 W Madison St, Suite 1925   Chicago, IL 60602   312.603.1200   312.603.9760 fax   www.cookcountypension.com

 Health Benefits Committee Meeting Minutes 3/21/19
the Fund a choice of one additional consulting service, for example a commercial (non-Medicare)
plan RFP; or a Medicare Advantage RFP, or other project mutually agreed upon by the Fund and
Segal.
Trustee McFadden made a motion to recommend the Board approve Segal’s proposed contract
extension: Trustee Goode seconded the motion. The motion was approved.
Administrative Report: Ms. Hawes informed the Committee of the following:
a) HBC meeting topics for 2019. A schedule of topics for each scheduled 2019 meeting was
presented.
b) 2018 Wellness Budget: UnitedHealthcare (UHC) reimbursed CCPF $114,386 for health
benefits administrative expenses under the UHC wellness budget, specifically: $58,200 for
health benefits communications; $29,500 for Medicare education and open enrollment
events, and $26,700 for a blood pressure monitor/scale health promotion campaign. UHC
has approved the continued use of the $120,000 wellness budget for health benefits
administrative expenses in 2019.
c) CAR-T Therapy: It was recently discovered that UHC added coverage for CAR-T gene
therapy to the CCPF Choice and Choice Plus plans in 2018 without first obtaining the
Fund’s approval. The therapy costs range from $373,000 to $475,000 and do not include
additional expenses for hospitalizations; testing; chemotherapy, and treating complications.
Ms. Hawes stated that offering benefits for CART-T therapy exposes the Fund to significant
financial risk because the Health Plan is self-insured and has no stop-loss insurance to
protect against high dollar shock claims, and the Plan has no caps on life-time benefits.
Furthermore, the Plan has no utilization controls to ensure Medicare members will receive
therapy at UHC’s network hospitals or designated treatment sites. Ms. Hawes has informed
UHC that CAR-T therapy services should not be approved or paid since no decision was
made by the Fund’s authorized representatives to add this coverage. Ms. Hawes will follow
up with a letter to UHC confirming that until further notice, benefits for CAR-T therapy are
not included in the CCPF Health Plan.
Segal’s Claim Audit of Pharmacy Plans: Dan Levin and Cristina De Leon of Segal Consulting
presented the results of the pharmacy plans audits. Mr. Levin stated that claims audits are designed
to determine if CVS has followed the plan design and terms of the contract with the Fund when
adjudicating pharmacy claims.
Employer Group Waiver Program (EGWP) Audit - Claims Year 2017
The EGWP audit did not identify any coding errors relating to the method in which
discounts were applied, rebates were calculated or dispensing fees were charged. Segal’s
audit found that no additional money was due the Fund by CVS. Mr. Levin recommended
2

 Health Benefits Committee Meeting Minutes 3/21/19
the Fund accepts the financial guarantee reconciliation provided by CVS as accurate and
closes the EGWP plan audit for CY2017.
Commercial (non-Medicare) Audit – Claims Year 2017
Audit results yielded no significant findings and CVS appears to be administering the plan
appropriately. Claims for colonoscopy bowel prep medications are coded to charge
members a copay, however, these claims are paid with a $0 copay. This is consistent with
the way other preventive services (including colonoscopies) are covered at no cost to the
member. Mr. Levin recommended updating the Fund’s CVS plan document to reflect the $0
copay and close the commercial plan audit for CY2017.
EGWP Contract Renewal: CVS has offered significantly improved pricing and terms for a three
year contract renewal retroactive to 1/1/2019 through 12/31/2021. Mr. Levin reported Segal has
completed a detailed analysis of the impact of CVS’s proposal on the Fund’s EGWP and WRAP
pharmacy claims and, as a result, Segal estimates the Fund and participating members will save
$3.1 million in 2019 and $8.8 million over the three year contract period. Savings will accrue from
improved rebates and discounts which will now also apply to WRAP claims. Mr. Levin confirmed
these are gross savings which will be factored into premium rates and shared with members.
Contract negotiations are in process with CVS and a final draft contract is expected to be ready
soon; meanwhile CVS has coded rebates for the 1st Quarter to credit the Fund with improved rates.
Trustee McFadden made a motion to recommend the Board approve the EGWP renewal when a
final contract is completed. Trustee DeGraff seconded the motion and the motion was approved.
New Business: Ms. Hawes reported that a representative from the American Civil Liberties Union
has asked to meet with her regarding coverage for gender reassignment surgery, however, she has
not agreed to meet or discuss the issue, as plan coverage issues are not determined by staff. The
Committee directed that external legal counsel be advised of the situation for further guidance.
Adjournment: Trustee Ochalla made a motion to adjourn. Trustee DeGraff seconded the motion
and the meeting was adjourned.

3

 