Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
February 20th, 2019
Englewood Neighborhood Health Center
641 W. 63rd Street, Chicago, IL 60621
Roll Call
Board Members Present
Carolyn C. Lopez, M.D., President
Melanie Dreher, RN, PhD.
Joseph B. Starshak
Steven K. Rothschild, M.D.
Board Members Absent
Juan M. Calderon
Horace E. Smith, M.D.
Adele Joy Cobbs, M.D
Victor M. Gonzalez
Caswell A. Evans, Jr., D.D.S., M.P.H.
For the Department
Julie Morita, M.D., Commissioner

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
February 20th, 2019
Englewood Neighborhood Health Center
641 W. 63rd Street, Chicago, IL 60621

Call to Order: The meeting was called to order at 9:05 am by Board President, Dr. Carolyn Lopez.
Approval of Minutes: Quorum not present. The January 2019 minutes were not approved.
Commissioner’s Update: Commissioner, Dr. Julie Morita, provided the following updates:
National Recognition: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recognized Chicago and
CDPH with three national awards last week during their annual grantee meeting in Atlanta. We received
two Healthy People 2020 awards, recognizing coverage rates for children 19-35 months old and for
adolescents 13-17 years of age. We also received an award for largest improvement in pneumococcal
vaccination coverage for older adults, as we have seen a 9 percentage point increase since 2014.
Winter Weather Response: CDPH dedicated 32 staff and more than 300 hours to track cold injuries and
warming requests across the healthcare system, assist the Department of Water Management with water
main breaks impacting hospitals, and support media and press briefings. I participated in the overnight
warming bus detail with the Department of Family & Support Services and saw firsthand the importance
of our coordinated outreach to protect Chicago’s homeless population in cases of extreme weather.
Tobacco: I testified before the Illinois Senate Public Health Committee on February 5 th in support of
raising the tobacco purchasing age to 21 statewide. This measure will keep thousands of today’s youth
from taking up a deadly habit, reducing the disease and deaths associated with tobacco use and putting
us closer to a tobacco-free generation. The legislation is sponsored by Senator Julie Morrison and
Representative Camille Lilly which aims to increase taxes on tobacco products and used those resources
to support children’s health, banned tobacco discounts and sampling and required that clerks who ring up
tobacco sales be at least 21. Because of these actions, teen smoking in the city has reached a record low
of six percent, dropping by more than half over the last six years.
Intersections of Public Health and Violence Prevention: This event was held on Wednesday, Feb. 6, and
sponsored by North Park University’s School of Nursing and Health Sciences. I attended as guest speaker
and discussed the Healthy Chicago 2.0 plan, the impact of trauma on health and how organizations
throughout the city are working to heal communities that experience violence.
Getting to Zero: Following a competitive bidding process, the HIV program recently announced awards to
community-based providers that will deliver a range of services to persons living with HIV/AIDS. These
investments support Chicago’s Getting to Zero initiative, which will effectively eliminate new diagnoses of
HIV in the city by 2030.Organization such as:
• AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) for emergency financial assistance, medical transportation,
and short-term housing.
• Catholic Charities, Heartland Health Outreach, and the Puerto Rican Cultural Center for the
provision of food or meals
• AFC for medical case management services that link clients to healthcare and psychosocial
services.
• The Legal Council for Health Justice, Prairie State Legal, and the Legal Assistance Foundation for
general legal aid, planning for placement and care of minor children, and income tax preparation
services.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
February 20th, 2019
Englewood Neighborhood Health Center
641 W. 63rd Street, Chicago, IL 60621

Comments by the Board President: Dr. Lopez noted that the fight against tobacco and other Public Health issues
are a continuous battle & are different every time. Dr. Lopez praised the city’s response to the harmful freezing
temperatures that occurred in early February and horrified that the city need to response in such a way due to
climate change.
Policy Update: Director of Policy, Jesse Lava, provided the following updates:
Manganese: Protecting residents from environmental hazards is a high priority for CDPH. That is why we
have issued tough new restrictions on manganese, a substance sometimes used at manufacturing and
storage facilities. Manganese can emit dust and can harm residents’ health and quality of life. The new
restrictions include the following:
o Material with manganese must be fully enclosed at all conveyors, transfer points, storage and
processing areas.
o Facilities must maintain rigorous dust-control and cleaning practices.
o Facilities must submit a metals-monitoring plan and install a filter-based metals monitor, in
addition to four monitors we already require.
o There is now a manganese limit of 0.30 micrograms per cubic meter as averaged over a rolling
three-month period.
Knowing that manganese isn’t the only environmental hazard that needs to be controlled at such
facilities, we also created new standards for all bulk materials, whether they have manganese or not.
These standards include the following:
o Fugitive dust monitors must follow EPA guidelines and are subject to CDPH approval.
o Monitoring data be submitted to CDPH monthly.
o CDPH may require additional monitoring or video recording if needed.
o Trucks with bulk materials must be immediately covered after being loaded (previously, they just
had to be covered before leaving the facility).
Vision: Students cannot learn if they can’t read their books or see the blackboard in front of them. That is
why we have a school-based vision program that screens children for eye issues and provides free glasses
to those who need them. We are now poised to make this program even better. The City Council has
passed an ordinance of Mayor Emanuel allowing CDPH to bring this program to any school in the city. This
step creates the possibility of serving many more students in need, especially on the south and west sides.
Subpoena power: The City Council has also passed an ordinance of Mayor Emanuel’s to help ensure we
can stop communicable disease outbreaks, no matter where they happen in Chicago. The ordinance
allows CDPH to subpoena companies for information they have on things like salmonella or meningitis
outbreaks. Time is of the essence in these public health investigations; if someone can help us find the
people who are getting sick, they need to help stop an outbreak.

 Chicago Board of Health Meeting Summary:
February 20th, 2019
Englewood Neighborhood Health Center
641 W. 63rd Street, Chicago, IL 60621
Sandblasting and grinding: We are taking additional steps on environmental hazards. A substance called
silica is sometimes called the “new asbestos” because it’s a fine dust that can lead to debilitating and
sometimes fatal lung disease. Mayor Emanuel introduced an ordinance to improve the City’s oversight of
building work that involves silica. The measure would require contractors to inform the City of when they
will engage in sandblasting (smoothing rough surfaces) or grinding (replacing mortar) so inspectors can
conduct audits and ensure the appropriate safeguards are in place to protect public health. This step will
help protect workers and the public.
Radiation: The Mayor has also introduced an ordinance to protect workers and residents from potential
radioactive elements such as thorium. There are parts of Chicago, including in Streeterville and at the old
Michael Reese facility in Bronzeville, where manufacturing plants from a century ago left radiation in the
soil and underground. It’s not a threat as long as the ground is undisturbed. So the proposed ordinance
says that if a company is going to do digging or other construction in one of these specified areas, they
need to have a radiation specialist onsite to ensure they’re taking all necessary precautions. If they don’t,
they could face a fine.
State progress: Governor Pritzker signed a $15 minimum wage, to be phased in by 2025. We as a health
department strongly support this measure. More economic security means better health outcomes.

Comments from Board: Board members discussed the impact of the new tobacco legislation and questioned if
new state political administration would move forward to implement a similar legislation state-wide. Details were
shared with members of the dedicated new team to be established from increased revenue to enforce policy and
deliver fines.
Presentation: “Englewood Neighborhood Health Center: Service and Impact” was present by speakers from Mile
Square, Chicago Torture Justice Center, and CDPH STI partner Services.
Old Business:
•
•

Mercy Condolence: Board reviewed formal letter.
Policy Resolutions: Board was present climate change refugee resolution but will review & discuss next
meeting with quorum.

New Business: None.
Public Comments: Residents were present with multiple questions regarding mental health resources and the lack
of representation from Howard Brown, Mental Health Advisory Board, and CDPH’s Mental Health Unit at the
meeting. One resident expressed his distressed with the commissioner’s failure to provide public mental health
services.
Adjourn: Meeting adjourned at 10:45 am.

 