Phase Two of an Investigation of
Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company’s
Accelerated Main Replacement Program
Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

Presented to:
The Illinois Commerce Commission

Presented by:
The Liberty Consulting Group

279 North Zinns Mill Road, Suite H
Lebanon, PA 17042-9576
(717) 270-4500 (voice)
admin@libertyconsultinggroup.com

September 30, 2015

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

Table of Contents
Summary ......................................................................................................................................... 1
Scope of Liberty’s Engagement ...................................................................................................... 2
Other AMRP Needs Outside Liberty’s Scope ................................................................................ 3
Monitoring Activities Prior to September 4th ................................................................................. 5
Monitoring Activities Since September 4th ..................................................................................... 5
Company Approach to Implementation Plan Development ........................................................... 6
Next Steps ....................................................................................................................................... 8
Mission Threats ............................................................................................................................... 9

September 30, 2015

Page i
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

Summary
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Liberty has worked with Peoples Gas since early summer to advance development of plans for
implementing the 95 recommendations of Liberty’s May 2015 Phase 1 report regarding the
Accelerated Main Replacement Program (“AMRP”).
o The goal of this work has been to produce implementation plans that will provide a sound
basis for: (a) monitoring implementation progress and effectiveness meaningfully, and (b)
assessing whether change is progressing appropriately.
New management of Peoples Gas has been undertaking major reorganization efforts at the gas
company executive level and within AMRP management groups.
o Those efforts remain underway, and likely will extend significantly into the future.
o The greater than expected complexity Peoples Gas has experienced in implementing these
changes has drawn attention away from creating implementation plans for the 95
recommendations.
The Peoples Gas plans for implementing the 95 recommendations (set forth in the Company’s
September 4, 2015 filing to the Commission) need substantial improvement in a number of
areas; e.g.:
o Clear indication that Peoples Gas understands the purpose and substance of each
recommendation.
o Clear statements of how post-implementation circumstances will differ from those existing
up to and through Liberty’s Phase 1 work.
o Clearly defined, sequenced, and scheduled actions that allow for clear and timely
opportunities for progress verification and tangible measures of implementation success.
Liberty has offered a template and sample plan to guide Company development of more
suitable plans:
o Peoples Gas has generally agreed to the implementation plan model offered by Liberty.
o The most notable exception is reluctance to commit to clear expression of how postimplementation circumstances will differ from those existing during Liberty’s investigation.
At best, effective implementation plans will exist for somewhat less than a third of the highest
priority recommendations by the end of October 2015.
o Liberty is not optimistic that Peoples Gas can reach a one-third target, but continues to press
the Company to do so.
o Even reaching the October target means that Company efforts to recast plans for the
remainder of the 95 recommendations is expected to extend until the end of 2015.
Company work during the last quarter of this year to improve implementation plans will take
place in an environment destined to produce overarching questions falling outside the scope of
(but likely to have negative impacts on) Liberty’s work to monitor implementation of the 95
recommendations.
The Commission likely will face imminently the need to address foundational questions
bringing profound AMRP re-definition into play. These questions include:
o The impact that a cost estimate likely to double the current one will have on realistically
achievable program scope, schedule, and accelerated cost recovery.
o The pace at which high-risk pipe replacement should be authorized to proceed during the
next one or two construction seasons, as Peoples Gas continues at the same time to work
through major gas company and AMRP management changes (and the accompanying

September 30, 2015

Page 1
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

•

•

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

disruption), and while the parameters under which that work has been planned undergo
major change.
Discussions with the Company indicate that its anticipated November 2015 filing will not
present cost and schedule “plans” as Liberty contemplated them in making its Phase 1
recommendations.
o Rather, the filings appear likely to frame broad strategic alternatives for discussion about
AMRP parameters and future direction; definitive can plans presumably only follow
sometime down the road, after final public judgments about new AMRP fundamentals are
reached.
o Those issues appear to include, for example:
 What goals the AMRP and work proceeding together with it should seek.
 What scope (e.g., pipe replacement, meter moves, and pressure increases) the work
should encompass.
 How much longer completion under the current scope would take under a vastly
increased cost estimate.
 What funding mechanisms would be needed to support significantly increased
expenditures.
 How vastly increased AMRP costs will affect customer affordability.
Such questions are beyond the scope of Liberty’s work to monitor recommendation
implementation.
o Nevertheless, their importance and complexity have the potential for further extending the
time it will take for the Company first to produce sound plans, and then to execute the
actions needed to implement the recommendations.

Scope of Liberty’s Engagement
Liberty’s May 2015 report addressed the findings, conclusions, and recommendations resulting
from an essentially year-long investigation of management and execution of the AMRP. That
report set forth 95 recommendations for improving AMRP planning and execution. The May 2015
report ended Phase 1 of a two-phased project. Liberty’s defined scope for Phase 2 is to conduct a
structured, two-year program of monitoring the effectiveness of Company implementation of those
95 recommendations.
At the outset of Phase 1, Liberty anticipated issuance of a detailed Phase 2 work plan shortly after
delivery of the report concluding Phase 1. What had not been anticipated was the pendency of a
change of control proceeding, which later brought Integrys, and in turn Peoples Gas, under WEC.
The Commission order permitting the acquisition to proceed called for Peoples Gas to submit four
plans by September 4, 2015. These plans included:
• A plan for implementing Liberty’s 95 recommendations
• A cost plan for the AMRP
• A schedule plan for the AMRP
• A transition plan reflecting changes in management of the AMRP.
Liberty deferred formulation of its detailed Phase 2 work plans pending the filing of the first of
the four Peoples Gas plans. Liberty’s scope of work, as discussed below, does not address the other
three plans, although Liberty recognizes that actions to address those plans likely have implications
for plans to implement the 95 recommendations.
September 30, 2015

Page 2
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

Liberty’s principal Phase 2 deliverables will consist of quarterly reports (with this report
representing the first) describing and evaluating progress in addressing the 95 recommendations.
The particular verification work required will depend on the nature of the recommendations, but
will involve interviews, field visits, other information exchanges, and analysis.
During the deferral of the detailed Phase 2 work plan, Liberty devised standard reports and
templates for managing verification efforts and for assessing Company implementation progress.
Liberty held a number of meetings and review sessions with Peoples Gas (discussed below) before
and since the filing of the Company’s September 4, 2015, plan for implementing the 95
recommendations. Liberty will continue regular conference calls, meetings, and other exchanges
to remain current with progress, problems, successes, and issues during the intervals between
quarterly monitoring reports. As the Company moves from effective plan creation to plan
execution, Liberty will schedule field visits as work proceeds over the two-year monitoring period,
based on the dictates of progress across quarters.
As each quarterly report approaches (and mid-quarter if required) Liberty will schedule site
interviews and inspections as appropriate to address progress. Continuing quarterly reports will
summarize Liberty’s monitoring work, and set forth findings, analyses, conclusions, and
recommendations.
Liberty will also provide a comprehensive, final implementation report at the end of Phase 2’s two
year duration. This report will state whether and when Peoples Gas completed implementation of
each Phase 1 recommendation. The report will provide Liberty’s opinions of the quality and
suitability of implementation of each recommendation and conclusions about overall AMRP
improvements since the beginning of Phase 1.

Other AMRP Needs Outside Liberty’s Scope
Major cost, schedule, organization, and management changes have taken place since Liberty’s
May 2015 Phase 1 report. These changes continue and they raise fundamental questions about the
short- and long-term situation of and prospects for the AMRP. These questions place
implementation of Liberty’s 95 recommendations in an uncertain and fluid context. The resulting
uncertainties:
• Have complicated and delayed the process for formulation of implementation plans by the
Company.
• Question the long-term context in which implementation of the recommendations will
occur.
• Expose the risks of proceeding under an old AMRP overall plan and schedule when:
o Organizational change and turmoil remain, and will continue for some time to have
the potential for affecting rates of progress and the efficiency and effectiveness of
work to attain that progress.
o Short-term work plans (most particularly those for the construction season that will
begin next spring and perhaps the following one) have been formulated on the basis
of long-range objectives and plans whose continuing achievability and validity are
and will remain highly questionable and speculative for some time.

September 30, 2015

Page 3
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

In late July, Peoples Gas leadership brought in by WEC acknowledged to Liberty the existence of
a “new” AMRP cost estimate. It initially became available within the gas company around January
2015. Although never securing final management approval, that estimate work indicated a second
near-doubling of AMRP costs across the program’s short history. Program costs had been
estimated at $2.6 billion in 2009; they rose to $4.45 billion in 2012. Those undertaking new
estimate work under Integrys management produced a projection of more than $8 billion around
January 2015.
The fact that this $8+ billion remains “subject to check” by WEC is not, however, the most critical
point. Discussions with new management over the past several months led Liberty to conclude that
continuing cost estimating work is not likely to generate an amount under $8 billion, and is more
likely to produce a higher amount.
Thus, the real “news” is the need for re-examining and re-baselining fundamental AMRP
parameters. Awaiting the November 2015 filing by Peoples Gas may put greater definition around
the alternatives that a vastly increased estimate will bring into play. Nevertheless, the fundamental
questions are already clear today. Any number in the current “ballpark” moots key defining
elements of the AMRP. The circumstances do no less than question whether the AMRP as
currently defined has substantial meaning anymore. Events invite debate about whether the gas
system improvements currently contemplated (as the Commission and stakeholders have come to
understand them) remain achievable for a cost that will continue to be considered by a broad range
of stakeholders to be: (a) worth much higher expenditures, and (b) on a schedule that will eliminate
public safety risks at a sufficient pace. The AMRP is destined in the next several months for public
exposure of a range of scopes, cost estimates, and schedules that will raise profound questions
about:
• Ability to sustain a level of progress that will meet 20-year completion.
• Financeability.
• Customer affordability.
• How much time it will realistically take to eliminate high-risk pipe from the system.
• The value proposition of continuing to address pressure improvements and meter
relocations after a reasonably sound reflection of their true costs becomes known,
sometime down the road.
• The commitment of Peoples Gas to continue such high-cost work under current rate
recovery methods and limits.
Liberty’s implementation monitoring work will provide insights on the questions that will arise
from the Company’s November 2015 filing. However, and more importantly, Phase 2’s limits will
not permit meaningful participation in addressing them in the coming months. Those questions
concern broad alternatives to the current AMRP, such as:
• A significantly longer schedule, in order to produce a more realistic annual spend (a 20year completion schedule will require near-term annual spends to approach $600 million
per year - - double what Peoples Gas has struggled to manage to date).
• A significant reduction in the scope of the work to be performed, in order to reduce
expenditures to a level more consistent with considerations of customer “affordability” and
rate path “sustainability,” hopefully without compromising efforts to mitigate public safety
risk.
September 30, 2015

Page 4
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

•

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

A change in current recovery methods or limits to support what management described to
Liberty as the need for reasonable assurances of “appropriate” rate treatment of
significantly expanded costs.

Monitoring Activities Prior to September 4th
The establishment of the September 2015 filing date for plans to implement the 95
recommendations meant the lack of a comprehensive set of implementation plans to guide
Liberty’s first quarter monitoring work. Liberty held a number of meetings and exchanges with
Peoples Gas prior to the Company’s September 4th filing. The goal was to determine when and
how to begin active monitoring of recommendation implementation.
Discussions with management since Phase 2 began have emphasized Liberty’s view of the
essential characteristics of effective and monitorable implementation plans. The five
characteristics Liberty has been communicating since the start of Phase 2 include:
1. Show that Peoples Gas understands the recommendation and what drove its creation.
2. Explain how the changes contemplated will alter pre-implementation circumstances (i.e.,
fulfill the need underlying the recommendation).
3. Describe a clear set of deliverables, whose execution will demonstrate implementation of
the recommendation.
4. Include specific, logically ordered tasks from beginning to end of the implementation
process.
5. Allow for clear, measurable milestones by which to judge implementation progress and
depth.
Liberty reviewed the 10 or so plans that Peoples Gas shared, beginning early in Phase 2 work.
They addressed specific Phase 1 recommendations. Discussions considered the merits of those
plans, but Liberty focused primarily on dialogue seeking to get the Company to move plans for
the whole body of Phase 1 recommendations to a more advanced stage. Early monitoring work
made clear that changes in the content and detail of the Peoples Gas implementation plans would
be required to: (a) support effective implementation by the Company, and (b) provide a basis for
Liberty’s assessment of progress in doing so. Following early discussions, Peoples Gas pulled back
the small number of plans it had provided, and committed to recast them as part of its September
4th filing.

Monitoring Activities Since September 4th
Management’s agreement to recast its implementation plans came with an intention to make
available to Liberty some revised plans before the September 4th filing. Peoples Gas also stated
that its filing with the Commission would recast plans generally to reflect the five characteristics
urged by Liberty. Peoples Gas eventually proved unable to provide any pre-September 4th samples.
Then, the plans filed on September 4th continued to lack sound treatment of at least some of the
five characteristics, with a small number of exceptions. Liberty discussed with management on
September 15 the continuing inability of the plans to provide a monitorable course of action, and,
more importantly, to give a clear sense that the Company:
• Understands the recommendation
• Has a clear sense of how implementation would change current circumstances
September 30, 2015

Page 5
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

•

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

Has outlined a clear and logically sequenced set of actions that would, when completed,
demonstrate effective implementation.

The continuing need for significant plan improvement led Liberty to recommend on September
21st a specific plan template, illustrated by providing Peoples Gas with a hypothetical plan for a
recommendation. The goal was to secure concurrence on the structure and content of typical plans.

Company Approach to Implementation Plan Development
The early set of plans reviewed (covering about 10 of the 95 recommendations) did not exhibit the
five necessary characteristics with clarity and sufficient detail. Of particular, but not sole concern
was that the lack of focus on the first two characteristics (from the list of five above) made it:
• Difficult to assess how well the Company understood and agreed with the changes called
for by the recommendation involved
• Impossible in many cases to distinguish what the Company was saying: (a) had been
accomplished subsequent to the recommendation, versus (b) what it has been doing all
along (i.e., before Liberty’s Phase 1 work).
Management provided a number of reasons behind its approach and progress to date in
implementation planning. Gas company executive leadership cited more pressing needs that
affected its ability to prepare implementation plans:
• Getting new leadership on top of day-to-day AMRP management
• Making its own assessments of improvement needs
• Deferring firm implementation commitments pending changes in gas company and
executive management.
With respect to the third point, Peoples Gas executive leadership observed that those who would
become directly responsible for meeting implementation commitments needed sufficient time
(which had not yet elapsed in its view) to “take ownership” of any commitments to be set forth in
implementation plans. Peoples Gas totally changed out executive management at the gas company
soon after WEC assumed control. These changes brought a new president to Peoples Gas. He has
chosen three, also new, executive reports. They include a construction vice president, who has
principal responsibility for the AMRP. The construction vice president exercises responsibility for
the AMRP in a manner that integrates (rather than separates out full-scope AMRP responsibility)
management of all Peoples Gas construction work. The other two vice presidents who report to
the Peoples Gas president have responsibility for customer service and for operations. They also
have significant AMRP-related responsibilities. They also still appear to be working through their
coordination needs with respect to the AMRP and with respect to approaching implementation of
the Liberty recommendations that affect their particular responsibilities.
As this past summer progressed, the construction vice president continued to fill the positions
directly reporting to him. He only recently completed filling the full complement of these directors
(most of them moving into Peoples Gas positions from other WEC entities). Liberty learned of
and met a number of them for the first time on September 15.
Accompanying these gas company leadership changes, new management decided to end the
AMRP relationship with the outside firm whose personnel had, since AMRP inception, filled key
September 30, 2015

Page 6
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

AMRP program leadership and most other program management roles. Removing that firm’s
many personnel has led to a broad and still-continuing set of changes in program management.
The Company reports that this reconstitution of the AMRP program management team has proven
much more difficult and time consuming than anticipated.
Apart from the direct challenges that the top-level and AMRP-level organization and staffing
changes have produced, certain other aspects of new management’s philosophy in addressing the
AMRP have contributed to a less than robust Company view of recommendation implementation
planning. Management points frequently to a history of success in tackling construction
management challenges at its other operations. Management believes its history lays a persuasive
basis for confidence that it can quickly and effectively get a handle on and meet AMRP
management needs and challenges. Management has also frequently cited what it describes as its
very short period “at the helm” of Peoples Gas. In judging the strength of this statement, it bears
consideration that Peoples Gas began major gas company corporate and AMRP reorganization and
change with (and somewhat before on some matters) the issuance of Liberty’s January 2015
interim report. It does not appear that current management considers those efforts to have had
eased its burdens.
Management also cites what it describes as broad agreement between Liberty and WEC views of
effective management of programs like the AMRP. Management follows with the notion that this
common understanding will suffice in ensuring real change and that the test of this premise will
lie in improved AMRP results sometime in the future. In other words, executive leadership at the
gas company considers those improved results (rather than focus on the 95 recommendations at
the individual level) to be the best judge of its implementation of effective AMRP change. These
observations from new leadership came in the specific context of management’s:
• Responding to Liberty’s view emphasizing the need for clear and suitably detailed
planning and implementation of the 95 recommendations.
• Urging of measurement of results improvements, versus overseeing recommendation
implementation progress, as the best method for monitoring Company progress.
Liberty has made clear to management that:
• The Phase 2 scope includes monitoring the 95 recommendations, and is limited to that
function.
• Liberty believes that implementing those recommendations will in fact bring about the
management and operational attributes appropriate to effective and improved
performance.
• That belief is why Liberty made the recommendations.
• The Phase 2 scope does not include continuing investigation, auditing, and oversight of
progress on an essentially real-time basis; only through such work could an outsider even
hope to be able to interpret performance results in meaningful connection with the
improvement opportunities that the 95 recommendations address.
• Even if the scope of Phase 2 were changed or expanded, past problems in measuring
performance effectiveness (which Liberty’s May 2015 report addresses) would make any
effort to compare prior performance results against future performance results very
problematic.

September 30, 2015

Page 7
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

Next Steps
In any case, Peoples Gas executive leadership continues to posit that AMRP improvement can
better be measured by results improvement than through addressing the 95 Phase 1
recommendations in detail. Leadership underscores this point with its observation that other
current AMRP needs have more immediacy. It has, however, agreed to recast its plans for the 95
recommendations generally in accord with the model that Liberty has offered. That agreement
includes incorporating four of the five characteristics listed above.
Liberty and the Company identified roughly one-third of the recommendations on which to focus
initially. This number reflects the maximum number that the Company expects it can recast before
the end of October. This priority list ensures that early implementation plan recasting efforts will
focus on the most important changes. The Company believes it will require until the end of
December to complete recasting plans for all 95 recommendations. Only at that time will an overall
assessment of the adequacy of the Company’s proposed quality of and pace for making changes
be possible.
There is one notable exception to the Company’s agreement to recast its plans in accord with
Liberty’s proposed model and the five characteristics. That characteristic involves its reluctance
to explain what will be different after implementation and how resulting differences will fulfill the
recommendation’s purpose. Management has described its lack of knowledge about how things
were done in the past as one of the impediments to providing such discussion.
Liberty continues to believe that implementation plans need to address explicitly how pre- and
post-implementation conditions and expectations will differ. Liberty finds it difficult to understand
how the Company can address change without a knowledge of “how things work” today and what
forces, factors, and barriers have driven current approaches. Such influences will tend to continue
to drive those approaches, unless Peoples Gas acknowledges and addresses root causes.
Dialogue with the Company makes clear that the potential for Phase 2 documentation to be used
in examining questions about the prudence of past company performance plays a significant role
in what it is now willing to document. Liberty understands that phenomenon. Certainly, Liberty’s
Phase 2 focus falls strictly on future improvement. Whether circumstances do or do not call for
measures to ensure information confidentiality is a matter that can be further explored with the
Commission. Whatever the balance to be struck between encouraging frank disclosure intended to
make improvements important to the public, on the one hand, and reasonable stakeholder
expectations about transparency, on the other hand, should not, however, sacrifice what Liberty
considers a central element in change planning and subsequent effectiveness measurement.
Over the next months, Liberty plans to:
• Work with the Company in its efforts to bring implementation plans for the 30 or so
highest-priority recommendations to a fully satisfactory state.
• Test Liberty’s recommendation implementation system and templates developed to
provide real-time tracking of implementation status and to simplify quarterly reporting.
• Work to close out report recommendations addressing the need for changing the ranking
system for identifying neighborhoods and facilities to address first; these recommendations

September 30, 2015

Page 8
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

•

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

address one of Liberty’s overarching concerns about the AMRP (the ability to maximize
reduction of leaks in highest-risk pipe).
Revisit recommendations and reach conclusions on recommendations for which Peoples
Gas has expressed less than full agreement.

Phase 2 goals for the last quarter of 2015 thus are:
• Get Peoples Gas to complete effective implementation plans for all 95 recommendations.
• Begin monitoring completion of interim implementation actions on high priority
recommendations.
• Close out any other recommendations for which satisfactory implementation plans have
been completed, because they have a short-duration implementation schedule.

Mission Threats
The most direct threat is the risk that Peoples Gas will not succeed in meeting the October goal
(effective implementation plans for about a third of the 95 recommendations) and the December
goal (effective implementation plans for the remainder).
Other threats external to implementation monitoring may prove far more significant over the
coming months. Liberty will continue to provide the services promised as part of the monitoring
effort. Doing so must, however, take place in the context of two fundamental changes afoot in the
broader environment:
• Major changes in AMRP definition (scope, cost, and schedule, for example) and the
Company’s level of commitment to the program as defined now or as changed.
• An organization that has been in transition already, and will for a significant time remain
in a state of flux when compared with that existing during most of Phase 1.
Liberty did not anticipate such changes in defining the work required for Phase 2, which is limited
to implementation monitoring. Liberty also did not anticipate the broad scope, depth, and number
of recommendations that Phase 1 eventually produced. Liberty nevertheless remains comfortable
that the level of effort budgeted remains sufficient to monitor implementation of the 95
recommendations.
This is not to say that matters outside the scope of implementation monitoring do not raise
concerns. Three in particular bear mention.
First, at least through the end of this year, management will be operating under an estimate that
understates work (measured by costs) by half or more. During this time, the key planning drivers
of work for the next construction season will need to be executed by AMRP management. The
need to continue eliminating high-risk pipe remains both a short- and long-term priority.
Nevertheless, spending in the hundreds of millions of dollars per year under a plan recognized as
out-of-date and out-of-touch with current knowledge is problematic.
Second, the difficulties management has experienced in organizing, populating, and directing a
new organization add significantly to near-term AMRP challenges. Whether within the AMRP
program management group or broadly across Peoples Gas, significant progress remains to be

September 30, 2015

Page 9
The Liberty Consulting Group

 AMRP Investigation – Phase 2

Recommendation Implementation Monitoring
First Quarterly Report

achieved in settling the new organization and in coordinating the work required among executive,
program, project level, and interdepartmental resources.
Third, new management’s persistence in seeking to break linkages to the past reduces confidence
that it has (or is using if it has it) the knowledge it needs with respect to the drivers of performance
problems. This persistence also requires a large increase in trust by outsiders that things are well
in hand under leadership tested in other circumstances in other places. The disconnect of greatest
concern involves understanding and acknowledging the past performance gaps that drove the long
and complex change agenda represented by the 95 Phase 1 recommendations. Even with massive
executive- and director-level changes, those performing and supervising the work day-to-day
remain largely the same. However different new management’s philosophy and approach may be
and however compelling its past successes may prove, it cannot be effective to approach the
management of the change process without understanding what has been and how it should differ
from what is to be.
It would require extraordinary optimism to anticipate full resolution of these uncertainties in the
few weeks remaining until the expected November 2015 filing by Peoples Gas. Nor would a full
solution to them avoid what is already “on the table” and what will become even more clear with
the November filing -- the need for a fundamental revisit of AMRP scope, cost, and schedule.
These three uncertainties and the need for the AMRP to proceed under a realistic set of parameters
(scope, cost, schedule, rate of risk reduction, and customer rate impacts, for example) call into
question what level of AMRP work should continue over the next 12 to 24 months.
Continuing high expenditure rates should be accompanied by assurances of an adequate ability to
manage them effectively. At the same time, whatever level of confidence exists in that ability,
large volumes of high-risk pipe continue to threaten public safety. This threat requires that a
substantial level of work continue, and that it focus on the highest-risk pipe. The November filing
will confirm what is already largely known -- that an appropriate, consensus long-range vision,
scope, and plans for the AMRP do not exist. It may take an extended length of time to develop
long-range plans that adequately address safety risk, quantity, cost, and schedule factors. These
circumstances make it appropriate to consider the need for a clear and firm short-term, interim
plan, rather than continuing to make large expenditures in the framework of a long-term plan that
has become a dead letter.
Rider QIP (providing for recovery of Qualifying Infrastructure Plant costs) has operated, and might
perhaps continue for the time being to operate, as an effective limiter on annual expenditures.
However, given the public importance of eliminating high-risk pipe, and of eliminating it
effectively and efficiently, the Rider QIP does not provide a sound substitute for a clearly thought
out interim plan pending the AMRP redefinition that looms.

September 30, 2015

Page 10
The Liberty Consulting Group

 