CHICAGO PLAN COMMISSION
121 North LaSalle Street
10:00 A.M.
City Council Chambers
2nd Floor, City Hall
Chicago, Illinois 60602
March 21, 2019
MINUTES
PRESENT
Alderman Tom Tunney*
Mike Kelly*
Linda Searl*
David Reifman*
Smita Shah*
Patrick Muprhey*
Terry Peterson*
Martin Cabrera*
Laura Flores*
Alderman Cappleman
Fran Grossman
Sarah Lyons*
Alderman Walter Burnett

ABSENT
Alderman Joseph Moore
Raul Garza
Reverend Albert Tyson
Les Bond, Jr.
Mayor Rahm Emanuel
Gary Gardner
Alderman Proco Joe Moreno
Alderman O’Connor
Rebekah Scheinfeld

A. The Chairman called the March 21, 2019, Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission, to order
at 10:06 AM and then undertook a roll call to establish the presence of a quorum; the hearing
commenced with nine members present(*). The public hearing was audio recorded and a court
reporter was present to record the proceedings. A transcript is available for the purpose of pursuing all
matters in greater detail and is a part of the permanent public record.
B. A motion by Terry Peterson, seconded by Smita Shah, to approve the Minutes of the February 21,
2019, Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission, was approved by a 10-0 vote.
C. A motion by Smita Shah, seconded by, Linda Searl to approve the following matters, pursuant to the
Inter-Agency Planning Referral Act, was approved by a 10-0 vote.
Items No. 1-2, under Negotiated Sale, Item No. 1 through 4 on Disposition, and Item No. 1 under
Acquisitions.

D. EQUITABLE PARTICIPATION EXECUTIVE ORDER UPDATE Presented by Patrick
Murphey.
E. Matters Submitted in Accordance with the Lake Michigan and Chicago Lakefront Protection
Ordinance and/or the Chicago Zoning Ordinance:
1. A motion by Mike Kelly, seconded by Terry Peterson, to approve a proposed Institutional Planned
Development, submitted by the Applicant, The Public Building Commission, for the property
generally located at 8601 West Foster Avenue. The site is currently zoned RS-2 (Residential SingleUnit, Detached House) and RS-3 (Residential Single-Unit Detached House) and will be changed to a

 unified RS-3 designation prior to the establishment of an Institutional Planned Development on the
subject site. The applicant proposes to construct a three-story addition to the existing Dirksen School,
was approved by a 10-0 vote (19877; 41st Ward)
2. A motion by Linda Searl, and seconded by Laura Flores, to approve a proposed planned development
submitted by, Green Era Educational NFP, for the property generally located at 650 West 83rd Street.
The site is currently zoned M1-2 (Limited Manufacturing/Business Park). The applicant proposes to
change the designation to M3-2 (Heavy Industry) prior to the establishment of a Manufacturing
Planned Development on the subject site. The applicant proposes to construct and operate an
anaerobic digester which is classified as a class III recycling facility on the subject site, was approved
by a 13-0 vote (19881; 21st Ward)
Adjournment
A motion by Tom Tunney, and Sarah Lyons to adjourn the Chicago Plan Commission was approved by a
vote of 13-0. The March 21, 2019, Regular Hearing of the Chicago Plan Commission was adjourned.

 