Commissioners
MARISEL A. HERNANDEZ, Chair

WILLIAM J. KRESSE, Commissioner/Secretary
JONATHAN T. SWAIN, Commissioner
LANCE GOUGH, Executive Director

Board of Electkn Commissioflers

Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago Acting as the Canvassing Board
for the Canvass of the Returns
of the

February 26, 2019

Municipal General Election
Held in the City of Chicago
Minutes of the Meeting
Tuesday, February 26, 2019
7:00 p.m.
Suite 800

69 West Washington Street
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director
Adam W, Lasker, General Counsel

Irish Sheehy
Anabel Abarca
Guests:

Michael Kretoff, SIEU Illinois Council
Daniel J. Bolin, Ancel Glink
David Schaffer, Miller Canfield

I.
Call to order: At 7:03 p.m. the Chair called to order the meeting of the Chicago Board of
Election Commission, acting as the Canvassing Board for the February 26, 2019 Municipal
General Election pursuant to Sections 7-56 and 22-8 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/7-56 and
5/22-8) ■
II.

Roll Call: All members were present

III.

Consideration and adoption of Rules that are to Govern the Canvass of Returns of the

February 26, 2019 Municipal General Election in the City of Chicago:

69 West Washington Street, Suites 600/800, Chicago IL 60602•312-269-7900 • TTY 312-269-0027

chicagoelections.com • cboe@chicagoelections.net•@ChicagoElection

 Minutes ofthe February 26,2019 and March 13,209 meetings of
Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Acting as the Canvassing Board
For the Canvass ofthe Returns

General Counsel Adam Lasker explained that the Board has 21 days, by statute, to
canvass and proclaim, but because of potential runoffs we are trying to do it
within 13 days. Civic Organizations have been notified, the Rules have been
posted on the Board's website and available at the Board's reception desks (in the
6^^ and 8^^ floor offices of the Board).
Since November we have made a friendly amendment to paragraph 16, changing
the time of the proclamation from 9:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m.
Commissioner Kresse moved to adopt the "Rules Governing the Canvass of the
Returns of the February 26,2019 Municipal General Election in the City of
Chicago". Commissioner Swain seconded the motion. The motion passed and the
Rules were adopted by unanimous vote of the Board.
IV.

Public Comment: None

V.

Recess: Commissioner Swain moved to recess until the call of the Chair. Commissioner

Kresse seconded the motion. The motion was approved by 3:0 vote of the Board. The Board
recessed at 7:06 p.m.

Board Members:

Marisel A. Hernandez, Chairwoman

William J. Kresse, Commissioner/Secretary
Jonathan T. Swain, Commissioner
Staff:

Lance Gough, Executive Director [absent]
Charles Holiday, Assistant Executive Director
Adam W. Lasker, General Counsel
James P. Allen, Communications Director
Peter Peso, Deputy Chief Administrative Officer
LaCretia Dandridge, Manager Human Resources
Joan T. Agnew, Deputy Counsel

Bill Perez, Coordinator Hispanic Outreach
Amanda Robledo, Purchasing
Gary Rycyzyn, Consultant
Rachel Brown, Videographer
Trish Sheehy
Guests:

Helene Gabelnick, League of Women Voters of Chicago(LWV Chicago)

Page 2 of6

 Minutes of the February 26,2019 and March 13,209 meetings of
Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Acting as the Canvassing Board
For the Canvass ofthe Returns

C. Betty Magness, Rainbow PUSH Coalition
Lora Chamberlain, Clean Count Cook County
Dan Sheehan, Clean Count Cook County
Judd Ryan, ES&S
Mauro Sivartd, resident
CarlinThisI, ccl2
Pete DeMay, resident
Clare Tobin, II. Ballot Integrity
Joyy Morris, City Bureau
Olivia Stovicek, City Bureau
Joyce Good, Clean Count Cook County
William Dock Walls, CFABC
Zoe Chen, Resident

VI.

Call to order: Chair Marisel A. Hernandez reconvened the Canvassing Board meeting on
March 13, 2019 at 9:32 am

VII.

Roll Call: All members were present.

VIII.

Public comments:

A.

Lora Chamberlain, Clean Count Cook County

Mentioned that she had looked at the Board's Election Day call logs and noted
that they only contain information from Board staff, and none from pollwatchers,
candidates or others.

Ms. Chamberlain suggested that the Judges of Election not be selected by
Commltteemen,and if they had to be so selected, that they not be assigned to
the ward of the Commltteeman who selected them. The Board should "randomly
assign" the judges throughout the city. Commissioner Swain told Ms.
Chamberlain that that would require legislative changes, and that, as such, we
cannot make those changes on our own. General Counsel Lasker and the Chair
pointed out that the Board follows the law, and the law states that the
Commltteemen submit the names of Judges for specific assignments in their
wards.

Ms. Chamberlain also recommended better training for the investigators.
B.

Dan Sheehan, Clean Count Cook County

Mr. Sheehan said that he had been a poll watcher in the 40^^ ward on Election
Day and that he had observed some inappropriate behavior including people

Page 3 of6

 Minutes ofthe Febraary 26,2019 and March 13,209 meetings of
Board ofElection Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Acting as the Canvassing Board
For the Canvass ofthe Returns

talking politics in the polling place and poll watchers for a particular candidate
appearing to be too close to the Judges of Election and Election Coordinator.

When the Chair asked if he had called Election Central on Election Day to report
the inappropriate behavior that he had observed, Mr. Sheehan said that he had
not called the Board of Elections, but had written it down and given It to his
"superior", Don Olson. The Chair and Commissioner Swain told him that he
should call Election Central, and that anyone can call Election Central on Election
Day. He could still report to his superior, but if he calls Election Central we can
investigate the issues in real time and that we need people to call as they observe
situations on Election Day rather than 2-3 weeks after the event.
C.

Clare Tobin, II. Ballot Integrity
Ms.Tobin mentioned that the process for a person who had requested a Vote by
Mail Ballot, but then went to their polling place, was confusing and Inconsistent
between 2 precincts she had observed, and that the Judges of Election
Handbooks was confusing on this matter.
The Chair asked Ms. Tobin if she had called Election Central regarding this matter
on Election Day. Ms.Tobin said that she hadn't, but that she had taken notes and
was reporting it now. The Chair pointed out that we have resources on Election
Day, such as texting all of the Judges of Election and Election Coordinators,to
clarify procedures if is confusion or inconsistencies. While the Board can consider
this matter for future elections, we could have addressed it that day had Ms.
Tobin called Election Central.

D.

William Dock Walls, CFABC
Mr. Walls expressed his concerns about votes cast versus votes counted in the
Board's reporting.

Mr. Walls stated that he has a case in court regarding this matter. He also argued
several points on the subject.
General Counsel Lasker pointed out that "ballots cast" and "votes cast" are
distinctly different concepts, and that they are consistently used and defined in
the state statutes. Taking into account the Cities and Villages Act, Election Code,
case law and other related laws, it is abundantly clear that the Board may only
count "votes cast" for "eligible candidates".

The Chair stated that this was like the oral argument that Mr. Walls will address
to courts and that she is very interested to see how the courts decide. The Chair
explained that at this time it is out of the Board's hands, but she appreciates Mr.
Wall providing his explanation and background.

Page 4 of6

 Minutes ofthe February 26,2019 and March 13,209 meetings of
Board ofElection Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Acting as the Canvassing Board
For the Canvass ofthe Returns

There were no other requests for Public Comment,so the Chair closed the Public Comment
section of the meeting, but noted the following:
• Election Central call logs are real-time records, and, as such, may not have all the details
because we are just getting the complaints. What we do is send investigators out on
these complaints immediately. Then, based on information that we receive from the
Investigators, we determine whether there is cause to pursue a particular complaint or
contact the State's Attorney Office, the Attorney General's Office or the Department of
Justice.

• The Chair then addressed a matter from the 40*"^ Ward that Ms. Chamberlain mentioned.

The Chair recommended further investigation into the alleged incidents. General Counsel
Lasker agreed.
• Mr. Lasker added that the Board has been working with the Chicago Council of Lawyers
before election day, on election day and since election day and they are cooperating with
us and supplementing our own resources. The Chair also mentioned that the Chicago
Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights is also partnering with us. On Election Day the
Chicago Lawyers' Committee had online access to our help desk and access to our legal
department to discuss any issues. Two of our Election Day attorneys were specifically
assigned to work with the Commmittee all day to coordinate investigations.
• The Chair asked everyone present, especially the groups that are helping us monitor
Election Day, not to wait until the day before the proclamation to inform the Board of
alleged incidents that "they heard" about. Rather, if you know of an Election Day
incident, it is your responsibility and obligation as residents of the City of Chicago, as
voters of the City of Chicago, and as representatives of a voting organization to call us
immediately and give us all the information that you have. The Board partners with many
groups that do precisely that. The Chair also stated that she thinks that it is totally
irresponsible for someone who knows of an Election Day problem to not call us

immediately at our hot-line. She hopes that is what will occur on April 2"^^.
IX.

Consideration of "Tabulated Statement of the Returns and Proclamation of the Results of

the Canvass of the Election Returns for the February 26, 2019 Municipal General Election
Held in the City of Chicago."

Page 5 of6

 Minutes of the February 26, 2019 and March 13, 209 meetings of
Board of Election Commissioners for the City of Chicago
Acting as the Canvassing Board
For the Canvass of the Returns

A.
Motion to Approve, Adopt and Proclaim; Commissioner Kresse moved to
approve, adopt and proclaim the Results of the Election.
B.
Second of Motion to Approve, Adopt and Proclaim: Commissioner Swain
seconded the motion.

C.

Vote on Motion to Approve, Adopt and Proclaim: The Board voted 3:0 in favor of

the motion.

X.

Other Matters. While the members signed the Proclamation, Mr. Lasker noted that we
proclaimed the results six days before the statutory deadline. Because of the short turn
around between now and the April 2"^^ election, it was thought that it would be in the
best interest of all parties to do so. Early Voting at our supersite will begin on Friday; two
days after proclaiming these results.
Mr. Lasker also complimented the Board's great staff, and how dedicated and
hardworking they are.
Commissioner Swain echoed Mr. Lasker's praise of the staff. Commissioner Swain and
Mr. Lasker discussed the statutory assignments of Judges of Election and possible
legislation regarding Judges of Election recruitment and assignments, noting the
monumental task of recruiting, training and assigning five Judges of Election to each of
the 2,069 precincts.

Commissioner Kresse made comments with regards to investigators, noting that they did
a fine job on Election Day. They are a real time contact to the polling places. The
Commissioner also echoed the early compliments regarding the Board's staff.
XI.

Adjourn: Commissioner Swain moved to adjourn. Commissioner Kresse seconded the
motion. The Board voted unanimously to adjourn. The meeting was adjourned at 10:16
a.m. on March 13, 2019

Submitted,

Commissiono'r William J. Kresse

SecretarN

Page 6 of6

 