ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board Meeting Minutes
February 1, 2018, 1:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
John Maki called the meeting to order at 1:05 p.m. ICJIA Associate General Counsel Simeon Kim called the
roll.
Member Name
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Executive Director John Maki, ICJIA
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak
Dr. Ana Lucic

Present

Absent
X

By Telephone

X
X
X
X
X
X

Five members were present in person and a quorum was established.
II. Approval of Meeting Minutes: December 7, 2017
Mr. Maki asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Ms. Szilak moved to approve the minutes. Dr. Cooper
seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
III. Applications for Review
A. Survey on Response to Opioid Use Disorders in Jail and Probation
Principal investigators: Jessica Reichert
Ms. Reichert said that ICJIA researchers will survey staff from Illinois probation departments and jails
on their use of medication-assisted treatment and safe withdrawal for opioid use disorders. The research
will assist the state in understanding barriers to use and training needs in these areas of the criminal
justice system. Dr. Lucic asked how medication-assisted treatment is defined. She said that there was no
mention of behavioral therapy. Ms. Reichert said that the definition does say used in conjunction with
evidence-based therapies. Behavioral therapy is more common in probation, but she is getting at the
Page   1

 newer medications and their use. The research question is more about the use of medications, and less
about the behavioral therapies that they use.
Mr. Maki asked for a motion to approve the application. Ms. Szilak moved to approve the application.
Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. Evaluation of Dual Diagnosis Program in Logan Correctional Center Amendment
Principal investigator: Jessica Reichert
Ms. Reichert said that she is just doing a protocol change. She said that she learned of some data
variables that are available, and she wants to add them to enhance the study. She said that the other
minor change is to include phone interviews with the three staff instead of in-person for time and
resource purposes.
Mr. Maki asked for a motion to approve the amendment. Ms. Szilak moved to approve the amendment.
Dr. Long seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
C. Evaluation of PERC (Pathway to Enterprise for Returning Citizens) Amendment
Principal Investigators: Justin Escamilla and Jessica Reichert
Mr. Escamilla said that an investigator, advisors, and consultants are being added. An intake form, and
pre- and post-test are also being added. Ms. Szilak asked if a person can participate in the program
without taking the tests. Ms. Reichert said yes, and there is a separate consent form.
Mr. Maki asked for a motion to approve the amendment. Dr. Cooper moved to approve the amendment.
Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
IV. Old business
None.
V. New Business
A. Mr. Maki informed the board that one exempt IRB application was approved – Opioid Prescribing in
Illinois: Examining Prescription Drug Monitoring Program Data.
B. Mr. Maki informed the board that two expedited IRB Applications were approved by Chair Era
Laudermilk. The two expedited applications are Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice Recidivism
Study and Study of Adult Redeploy Illinois Outcomes by Demographics and Region.
Dr. Harrington arrived at approximately 1:25 pm.
VI. Adjourn
Mr. Maki asked for a motion to adjourn. Dr. Harrington moved to adjourn. Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. The
motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
The IRB meeting adjourned at approximately 1:26 pm.
Page   2

 