ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM

TO:

Strategic Opportunities Committee Members

FROM:

Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

DATE:

August 25, 2015

SUBJECT:

Materials for the August 27th meeting

Attached are the agenda and materials for the meeting to be held on August 27, 2015 at 2:00 at the
Authority.
The Agenda includes a review of four items attached here that might serve to guide the Committee’s
work. They are:
1.

The Draft Charge to the Committee

2.

Some draft principles the committee might consider using to frame its substantive work

3.

The Authority’s grant making principles adopted in 2001 to guide its grant making processes

4.
Along with several discretionary funds, there are three significant formula funds that the Authority
administers. A summary of the requirements and guidance for each is attached.
In addition, included are:
1.
A Strategic Plan the Authority developed and released in 2001, which provided an (perhaps now
outdated) example of a framework in which the Authority did its work. This is not required reading
however skimming it would be helpful.
2.
Articles by two of our members, Chief Tanksley and Superintendent McCarthy, which are
interesting examples of the intersection among practice, data collection, and research.

We look forward to your ideas and participation at the meeting.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE MEETING
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27, 2015, 2:00 P.M. – 4:00 P.M.
300 WEST ADAMS STREET, 2ND FLOOR, CHICAGO
AGENDA

I. Discussion/Revision/Adoption of Strategic Opportunities’ Charge
II. Discussion/Revision/Adoption of Principles
III. Review/Discussion of Existing Grant Making Principles
IV. Review of ICJIA’s Existing Mandates – Internal and Federal
V. Discussion
VI. Next Steps
Future Meeting Date Possibilities
(Third Wednesday of the Month at 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 noon)
Wednesday, September 16, 2015
October To Be Determined
Wednesday, November 18, 2015
Wednesday, December 16, 2015

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 The Strategic Opportunities Committee
The Strategic Opportunities Committee shall work with the Authority’s Board to define
• The Principles that will provide strategic vision and governance to direct the
agency’s grant work;
• The Priorities which focus the agency’s grant work to implement the principles;
• The Process that the agency will use in its grant work to maximize the
effectiveness of the state’s justice system.
The Committee shall work closely with the Authority’s Federal and State Grant and
Research and Analysis Units to achieve the following objectives:
•

Create a three-year strategic plan for the Authority’s grant work;
• Coordinate the mandated planning for the Authority’s federal block grants and
state grant advisory groups;
• Encourage and coordinate federal and private grant work outside of its block
grants that drive targeted improvements to Illinois justice system that are
informed by the Authority’s principles and priorities.
• Partner with other related agencies and state and local level initiatives to align
interests

 Principles to Guide Authority’s Work
Public Safety: The criminal justice system should promote public safety through…
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Legitimacy: Criminal justice practices and policy should provide a strong and equitable justice
system for all Illinois residents and strengthen the trust between citizen and the justice system,
promoting the fair distribution of rights, resources and opportunities.
Proportional: Criminal offenses should be punished in proportion to their seriousness and
sentences should be designed to achieve offender accountability and public safety.
Restoration: The criminal justice system should respect and support victims’ rights and choices.
Rehabilitation: The criminal justice system should require and support offender rehabilitation
services to offenders who want them.
Strengthen communities: The criminal justice system should strengthen communities and their
informal capacities to prevent crime.
Prevention: The criminal justice system should prevent crime and its harmful effects on
individuals and communities.
Research Based: Criminal justice policies and practices should utilize current statistics, research,
and community input to inform analysis.
Collaboration: The sectors of criminal justice system must collaborate to provide efficient,
effective and expedient justice.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION
AUTHORITY

AUTHORITY RESOLUTION #2 (2001)
Grant Making Principles
WHEREAS, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority has
identified the need for adopting overarching principles to guide its grant
making;

120 South Riverside Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60606-3997
Phone: (312) 793-8550
Fax: (312) 793-8422
TDD: (312) 793-4170

George Ryan, Governor
_______________________________
_______________________________

Peter B. Bensinger
Chairman

Jane Rae Buckwalter
Vice Chairman

Dorothy Brown
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk

WHEREAS, the formulation of such principles has been considerate of
previous discussions of the Authority and workgroups contributing to the
State Criminal Justice Plan, recommendations contained in the State
Criminal Justice Plan, and the Authority's administrative experience with
the grant making function; and
WHEREAS, these principles were reviewed and discussed in past
meetings of the Authority and in joint meetings of its Budget and Planning
& Research Committees,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority hereby adopts the following grant making
principles:

Timothy F. Bukowski
Kankakee County Sheriff

Richard A. Devine

1.

The Authority should strive to maximize the use of available
federal funds, seeking any and all reasonable alternatives to lapsing
funds back to the federal government.

2.

The Authority's decision to award federal funds should have a
foundation in the best available research, evaluation, practice and
professional advice.

3.

The Authority's decision to award federal funds should be
considerate of the balance of resources across the justice system
and its potential impact in other areas of the system.

4.

The Authority's federal funds should not result in the duplication of
efforts already in place.

5.

The Authority's federal funds cannot be used to supplant other
funds.

6.

The Authority's federal funds should be allocated (a) to areas
demonstrating need based on an analysis of the nature and extent of
the problem(s), and (b) to programs in areas where there is an
opportunity to impact the identified problem(s).

Cook County State’s Attorney

Norbert J. Goetten
Director, Office of the State’s
Attorneys’ Appellate Prosecutor

Terry Hillard
Superintendent
Chicago Police Department

Maureen Josh
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk

Thomas J. Jurkanin
Director, Illinois Law Enforcement
Training and Standards Board

John Millner
Chief, Elmhurst Police Department

Sam Nolen
Director of State Police

Jim Ryan
Illinois Attorney General

Michael Sheahan
Cook County Sheriff

Donald N. Snyder, Jr.
Director of Corrections

Michael Waller
Lake County State’s Attorney

Al Apa
Barbara Engel
John C. Piland
Members of the Public
_______________________________
_______________________________

Candice M. Kane, Ph.D.
Executive Director

1

 Also, to the extent permitted by program guidelines, some portion of available federal
funds should be used for the following:
7.

To encourage collaborative approaches to problem solving, planning and program
implementation;

8.

To encourage innovative pilot or demonstration projects;

9.

To evaluate funded projects and support an ongoing program of research designed
to further planning and program development; and

10.

To build the capacity of those in the criminal justice system.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that these principles be made publicly available and
are widely disseminated;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Authority, its various committees and staff
ensure that, to the extent permitted by program guidelines, the Authority's grant making
process is consistent with these principles.
ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY this 1st day of June 2001, after a motion by Mr. Piland
and second by Ms. Engel.

Peter B. Bensinger
Chairman

Candice M. Kane
Executive Director

2

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Major Formula Funds
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) – Formula
Award
The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program is the primary provider of federal
criminal justice funding to state and local jurisdictions. The JAG Program provides states and units of
local governments with critical funding necessary to support a range of program areas including law
enforcement, prosecution and court programs, prevention and education programs, corrections and
community corrections, drug treatment and enforcement, crime victim and witness initiatives, and
planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs.
2013 – 2015 ICJIA established priorities
1. Law Enforcement:
Support programs which provide law enforcement agencies throughout the state with the necessary
means to deter, combat, and investigate crime through strategies, staffing, training, and equipment
that promotes public safety and the common good.
2. Courts, Prosecution, Defense and Community Corrections:
Support and enhance court initiatives, including specialty courts, that contribute to the effectiveness
and efficiency of the criminal justice court system in all its facets—the judiciary, clerks, prosecution,
defense, and probation.
3. Prevention and Intervention:
Support proven and innovative prevention and intervention programs for young people at risk of
involvement in the criminal justice system. These programs should address recognized risk factors,
enhance protective factors and help young people avoid involvement with violent crime, drugs,
gangs, guns and other criminal behavior. In setting priorities for JAG funding, recognize that
ICJIA’s primary source of prevention and intervention funds is state violence prevention funding
rather than JAG.
4. State Corrections:
Support programs which allow state and local correctional facilities to apply proven and innovative
programs to assist in meeting the needs of incarcerated persons and to maintain the safety and
security of the institution, staff and inmate population.
5. Justice Information Sharing:
Support efforts to implement integrated justice information systems throughout the state to ensure
that each component of the criminal justice system has access to timely, complete, and accurate
information necessary to inform decision-making at each stage of the criminal justice process.

6. Recidivism Reduction:
1

 Support proven and innovative programs targeted to address recognized risk factors and augment
protective factors to reduce recidivism among those already involved in the criminal justice system,
those on community supervision, or those incarcerated, allowing them successful community reentry
as law-abiding and contributing members of society.
7. Justice Research and Evaluation:
Support research and other programs that contribute to knowledge about crime, its causes,
prevention and deterrence and about the needs of victims, offenders with mental illness and or
substance abuse issues, and other special populations to ensure that such knowledge is made
available to policy makers and practitioners.
Eligible grantees: State, county, and local agencies and, under certain limited conditions, private nonprofit organizations.
Matching funds: JAG does not require a matching funds contribution, but current Authority policy
requires a 25% cash match. The Budget Committee may approve a matching funds hardship waiver
when specifically requested.
Fund Year
2010
Total Award $12,029,242

2011
2012
$9,611,661 $7,481,873

2013
$7,384,468

2014
$7,357,820

Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) -- Formula Award
The S.T.O.P. (Services - Training - Officers - Prosecutors) Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
promotes a coordinated, multidisciplinary approach to enhancing victim advocacy and improving the
criminal justice system's response to violent crimes against women. It encourages the development and
improvement of effective law enforcement and prosecution strategies to address violent crimes against
women and the development and improvement of advocacy and services in cases involving violent
crimes against women. States must allocate VAWA funds using the following formula:
 25 percent for law enforcement
 25 percent for prosecutors
 30 percent for victim services
 At least 10 percent of these funds must be distributed to culturally specific communitybased organizations
 Five percent to state and local courts, and
 15 percent for discretionary distribution.
VAWA Purpose Areas:
•
•

Developing, training, or expanding units of law enforcement officers, judges, prosecutors, and
other court personnel specifically targeting violent crimes against women.
Developing, enlarging, or strengthening victim services programs, including sexual assault,
domestic violence, and dating violence programs, developing or improving delivery of victim
services to underserved populations, providing specialized domestic violence court advocates in

2

 •

courts where a significant number of protection orders are granted, and increasing reporting and
reducing attrition rates for cases involving violent crimes against women.
Developing and implementing more effective police, court, and prosecution policies, and
protocols, orders, and services specifically devoted to preventing, identifying, and responding to
violent crimes against women.

Eligible grantees: State, county, local agencies private non-profit organizations.
Matching funds: No matching contribution for non-profit agencies. 25% cash or in-kind matching funds
requirement for all other agencies.
Fund Year
Total Award

2010
$4,846,712

2011
$4,868,690

2012
$4,685,540

2013
$4,391,190

2014
$4,960,602

Victims of Crime Act Crime Victims Assistance (VOCA) -- Formula Award
The Victims of Crime Act Victim Assistance (VOCA) fund supports direct services to victims of crime.
Services under this grant program are defined as those that:





Respond to the emotional and physical needs of crime victims.
Assist primary and secondary victims of crime to stabilize their lives after victimization.
Assist victims in understanding and participating in the criminal justice system.
Provide victims of crime with a measure of safety and security such as boarding-up broken
windows and replacing and repairing locks.

A minimum of ten percent of each award must be allocated to each of the following priority areas:





Sexual assault
Domestic violence
Child abuse
Previously underserved populations (victims of federal crimes, assault, robbery, gang violence,
hate or bias crimes, intoxicated drivers, bank robbery, economic exploitation or fraud, elder
abuse, and survivors of homicide victims)

The Office of the Illinois Attorney General administers the companion VOCA victim compensation
award.
Eligible grantees: State, county, local agencies private non-profit organizations.
Matching funds: 20% cash or in-kind matching funds requirement.
Fund Year
Total Award

2010
2011
$16,454,683 $16,921,074

2012
2013
2014
$1,487,197 $16,619,582 $17,749,786

3

 