ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Regular Board Meeting
Friday, September 16, 2016
2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-505
Chicago, Illinois

AGENDA

I.

Call to Order and Roll Call

II.

Approval of minutes

III.

Chairperson’s remarks

IV.

Ad Hoc Budget Committee Meeting

V.

Vote: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Strategic Plan: Edward
Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants for Federal Fiscal Years 20162019

VI.

Executive Director’s Report

VII.

ICJIA Financial Report

VIII.

Committee Reports
a. Audit Committee
b. Budget Committee
c. Strategic Opportunity Committee

IX.

Research & Practice Presentation and Panel Discussion: ICJIA’s Role in
Juvenile Justice

X.

Public comment

XI.

Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State and
Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should
contact by telephone, e-mail, or letter John Klaer: (312) 793-8946, john.klaer@illinois.gov, Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority, 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

ICJIA Board Members

From:

Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair, and John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

September 8, 2016

Re:

September 16, 2016, Meeting Overview

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority’s Quarterly Board Meeting will be
held Friday, September 16, from 2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the Michael A. Bilandic Building,
160 N. LaSalle, N-505, in Chicago. To enter the Bilandic Building, visitors must present
a valid State I.D. and pass through a metal detector. All Authority Board meetings are
subject to the Open Meetings Act. Members of the general public are encouraged to
attend. The Authority’s statutorily created oversight Board serves a unique and vital role
in improving the State’s public safety outcomes. Composed of state and local public
safety officials, policy experts, and community leaders, the Board is designed to embody
and represent the state’s criminal justice system and is tasked with setting agency
priorities, tracking the progress of ongoing programs, and overseeing the agency’s grantmaking. To that end, the Authority’s quarterly Board meetings bring research and
practical insights to bear on important and emerging issues affecting public safety in
Illinois with the goal of identifying how the agency should address them through research
and grant-making.
The September Board meeting will provide members with essential updates on the
Authority’s ongoing work by its staff and committees. Chair Robb will call a special
Budget Committee meeting, necessary due to several Authority funding lines included in
the stop gap budget. After the Budget Committee meeting, the Board will vote on the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Strategic Plan: Edward Byrne Memorial
Justice Assistance Grant for Federal Fiscal Years 2016-2019, which members discussed
at the June Board meeting. The Board will then turn to updates and discussion from the
Authority’s Executive Director as well as chairs of the Audit, Budget, and Strategic
Opportunities committees.
After the Board addresses these items, there will be a Research & Practice Presentation
that will focus on the role the Authority should play in juvenile justice system. While the
Authority conducts research on juvenile justice topics and funds program that impact the

 juvenile justice population, the agency lacks a strategic vision to guide this work. To
frame this issue, the Authority’s Executive Director and Research Director will give a
brief presentation on the state of juvenile justice, focusing particularly on the
developments of the last 10 years, the Authority’s mandate as it relates to the juvenile
justice system, and the Authority’s work in juvenile justice. We will then turn to a
discussion with our expert panelists: Dr. Karen M. Abram, Associate Director of the
Health Disparities and Public Policy Program Northwestern University Feinberg School
of Medicine; Dr. Colleen Cichetti, Director of the Center for Childhood Resilience at
Anne and Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago; and Esther Franco Payne,
Illinois Juvenile Justice Commission Board Member and Executive Director of Cabrini
Green Legal Aid. Through this presentation, the Authority staff and Board will explore
ways in which the Authority can use its capacity to strengthen the state’s juvenile justice
system and discuss the vision and goals that should guide this work.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY

Bruce Rauner, Governor
John Maki, Director

300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

August 18, 2016
To:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Board Members

From:

Angie Weis, General Counsel

Re:

Authority’s Board and Committee Meetings as it applies to Open Meetings Act,
Authority’s Organization Rules, and Robert’s Rules of Order whenever applicable

Issues:
1. Whether a meeting can continue without a quorum?
2. For Committees, if there is not a quorum with the Committee members, whether
quorum may be created with non-committee Board Members who are present?
3. Whether a board or committee member can vote via telephone?
4. Whether abstention votes affect quorum?
5. Whether a member who is abstaining or recusing herself from an issue can make or
second a motion for a vote on that issue?
6. What is the difference between when a Member should abstain versus recuse herself
from a vote?
1. A meeting cannot continue without a quorum.
For Board Meetings, members must be physically present at the location of the meeting
to count toward quorum. (5 ILCS 120/2.01) The Illinois Attorney General is the only Board
Member who is allowed a Designee. If a quorum is not present at the scheduled time of the
meeting, the Chair may continue a roll call for a reasonable time after which, if a quorum is still
not present, the meeting shall be adjourned. (2 Ill.Admin. Code, Section 1750.330 (c))
For Committee Meetings, no business may be conducted unless a majority of the
committee members are present. (2 Ill.Admin. Code, Section 1750.330 (c)) A quorum shall
constitute a majority of the Authority members then holding office who are present at the initial
roll call at the commencement of any regular or special meeting. If a quorum is not present at the
scheduled time of the meeting, the chair may continue a roll call for a reasonable time after
which, if a quorum is still not present, the meeting shall be adjourned. (2 Ill.Admin. Code,
Section 1750.330 (c))

Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 2. For Committees, quorum may be created with non-Committee Board Members who
are present.
Board members who are not committee members, who physically attend a committee
meeting, count toward a quorum if: the Chair of the Authority designates that member to become
an ad hoc voting member to ensure a quorum for that specific committee meeting. (2 Ill.Admin.
Code, Section 1750.340 (f)) However, quorum must be established at the time of the meeting, or
a reasonable time after. (2 Ill.Admin. Code, Section 1750.330 (c)) Therefore, if there is not
otherwise quorum at the time of the roll call, the Chair of the Authority should, at that time,
designate other Authority members who are physically present to be ad hoc voting members for
that meeting.
Additionally, if the Chair of the Authority has not designated non-committee board
members who are present to be ad hoc voting members for that meeting, those committee
members are not entitled to vote on committee items that day. Because ICJIA’s board’s
preference is to allow non-committee members who are present to vote, going forward the Chair
of the Authority should designate all non-committee board members who are present to be ad
hoc committee members for that meeting immediately following the roll call. This practice will
ensure that all board members present are able to vote.
3. Board and Committee members may count toward quorum and vote via electronic
means if certain criteria are met.
Board Meetings: Members must be physically present to vote and to present motions. (2
Il. Admin. Code 1750.330(f)(1). There can be two locations whereby members physically
present at each location will count toward quorum and connect by interactive video conference if
the second location is a public body (i) with statewide jurisdiction, (ii) an Illinois library system
with jurisdiction over a specific geographic area of more than 4,500 square miles, (iii) a
municipal transit district with jurisdiction over a specific geographic area of more than 4,500
square miles, or (iv) a local workforce investment area with jurisdiction over a specific
geographic area of more than 4,500 square miles must be physically present at the location of a
closed meeting. (5 ILCS 120/2.01) If the second location does not meet these requirements, then
only members who are physically present at the main meeting location are allowed to count
toward quorum and/or vote.
Committee Meetings: A quorum of members of a public body must be physically present
at the location of an open meeting in order to hold that meeting. (5 ILCS 120/2.01) Once quorum
is established, the Authority’s administrative code allows for members to be present for purposes
of voting via electronic means in specific, enumerated circumstances. Electronic means includes
but is not limited to conference calls and video conferencing. (2 Ill.Admin. Code, Section
1750.340 (d)) If there is a physical quorum, OMA limits partaking by electronic means to the
following circumstances: (i) personal illness or disability; (ii) employment purposes or the
business of the public body; or (iii) a family or other emergency. (5 ILCS 120/7 (a))
4. Members who abstain or recuse themselves from specific votes still count toward
quorum.

Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 A recusal or abstention does not affect the quorum. The quorum refers to the number
present, not to the number voting. (Roberts Rules, (11th ed.), p. 400, 11. 7-12; p. 401, 11. 8-11; p.
403, 11. 13-24) After a quorum is announced a majority of those voting on a motion shall be
sufficient to pass and make it the official act of the Authority. (2 Ill.Admin. Code, Section
1750.330 (d))
5. A member who is abstaining or recusing herself from a vote should not be the member
to make or second the motion for a vote on that issue.
Making or moving on a motion by a member who has a conflict of interest is not
specifically addressed by the OMA. It is, however, addressed under Robert’s Rules, which says
that no member can be compelled to refrain from voting simply because it is perceived that he or
she may have some “conflict of interest” with respect to the motion under consideration. If a
member has a direct interest in a motion under consideration, the rule is that they should not vote
on such a motion, but even then they cannot be compelled to refrain from voting. (Roberts Rules
(11th ed.), p. 407, 11. 21-31) However, best practice would be that a member should not make or
second the motion for a vote on an item for which they have recused themselves from voting or
for which they plan to abstain from the vote.
6. The situations in which a member should abstain or recuse herself from a vote are
different.
Although the effect of abstention and recusal is the same—that the member does not vote
on a particular item—they are intended for different purposes and the logistics for using the two
are different.
A member should abstain from voting when she is neither in favor nor opposed to the
particular item. The most common example of this is when a member feels that she is not able to
take an informed position (e.g., if she did not read the background materials prior to the vote). A
member can decide to abstain from a voting at the time of the vote, and shall convey that choice
by saying “aye” when the Chair asks for the abstentions.
A member should recuse herself from voting when she has a direct personal or pecuniary
interest in the item. It is a general rule that no one can vote on a question in which she has a
direct personal or pecuniary interest. If a person has such an interest in an item that is to be voted
upon, she should identify that conflict prior to the meeting and recuse herself from voting on that
item. Members will be asked to identify any items that they need to recuse themselves from
when the meeting materials are distributed prior to the meeting. Members should send an email
to the designated ICJIA staff at least 48 hours before the meeting stating any items for which
they need to recuse themselves. The Chair will then announce any recusals at the meeting prior
to the discussion of the relevant topic. A member who has recused themselves from voting on a
particular item may still participate in the relevant discussion, but should not vote.

Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, June 3, 2016, at 9 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-502
Chicago, Illinois

Roll Call
Authority Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting
to order and asked General Counsel Angie Weis to call the roll.
Authority Board Member Attendance
State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Director John Baldwin
Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli (after roll call)
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino
Director Brent Fischer
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan,
Committee Chair
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle (after roll call)
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director George Shelton
Rick Tanksley
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

Present
X
X
X
X

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 Ms. Weis stated that a quorum had been achieved. Chair Robb asked for the approval of
the meeting minutes of March 11, 2016. Ms. Hora moved to accept the minutes and Ms.
Wolff seconded the motion. There were a few corrections noted: On page 2, insert “has”
into the following sentence: Chair Robb reminded members that the Authority has two
committees. On page 3, insert “to” in the following sentence: Chief Fiscal Officer Randy
Kurtz said the Authority hopes to hire a victim needs assessment contractor in May or
June with a six-month timeline to complete the project.
The motion was adopted by unanimous vote.
Chairman’s Remarks
Chair Robb thanked everyone for their attendance at the meeting and especially
acknowledged Paula Wolff, Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair, and staff for their
work on the committee. She also thanked Board members that participated in the
committee’s work by seeking feedback from stakeholders and other interested parties.
ICJIA Audit Hoc Committee
Chair Robb directed the member’s attention to item IV on the agenda. She stated that the
recently released audit of several Authority grant programs should remind Board members
of their duties and responsibilities. As a result of this audit, the Authority has formed an
Audit Ad Hoc Committee, chaired by Amy Campanelli. Other members include Maureen
Josh, Mike McCoy, and Jennifer Vollen-Katz. This committee will review the audit to
ensure the audit findings are not repeated. Chair Robb thanked the members for their
leadership in making certain protocols and procedures are in place so that the audit
recommendations can be carried out.
Director Maki echoed Chair Robb’s remarks stating that he and Authority Executive Staff
are committed to presenting the Board with transparent funding recommendations backed
by research. He went on the say that the Board’s role is to protect the legitimacy of the
agency. Ms. Campanelli stated that she was honored to take on this task and feels that the
Committee and staff will be able to review the report and provide an update to the Board
soon. Ms. Hora stated that much of the report’s recommendations relate to staff and that
she wished she could have done something. She stated that she hopes this committee will
give guidance to Board members on this. Director Maki reminded the group that the
Strategic Opportunities Committee and the VOCA/VAWA planning process will inform
and strengthen the agency’s grant making in the future. He went on to state that one of his
big goals is to create an infrastructure which board members can use to make decisions.
The Audit report is available on-line and the staff will resend the link. Hearing no additional
questions regarding the audit, Chairman Robb asked Director Maki for this his report.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 2

 Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki began his remarks by thanking Board members for their engagement, which
has really improved over the last year. He also wanted to thank Illinois Department of
Children’s Services Director George Shelton for attending the meeting. Director Shelton
said he is looking forward to working with the Authority. Director Maki thanked him and
said he hopes the agency’s resources can be coordinated with those of the Illinois
Departments of Corrections and other agencies.
Director Maki next introduced the Authority’s new General Counsel and Chief of Staff
Angie Weis, who recently joined the agency.
Director Maki then provided an update since the last quarterly Board meeting. He said the
Authority hosted training on swift, certain, and fair probation practices for almost 90
practitioners. He noted the Authority also hosted a training on posttraumatic stress and
trauma in the criminal justice system that was very well attended.
Director Maki also updated the Board members on the VOCA and VAWA planning
process. He said the Authority was in the final stages of procuring a technical assistance
provider, will hire a victimologist to lead the research aspects of the effort, and was meeting
weekly internally to prepare for a huge increase in grant making. Director Maki stated that
the agency will go from a spend rate of about $15 million to approximately $70 million.
Given this, many Board members may be fielding questions regarding VOCA funding.
Director Maki asked Board members to direct those questions to him. Director Maki
concluded his report by stating that a big piece of the Authority’s work has been around
the implementation of the Grants Accountability & Transparency Act. Hearing no
questions, Director Maki asked Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz for the financial
report.
Authority Financial Report
Authority Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz outlined major fiscal matters for the
Authority members. He stated that through 10 months of the state fiscal year, the Authority
spent about $25.5 million, including $19 million under federal programs and the balance
for administrative costs. VOCA expenditures to date were at approximately $10 million;
VAWA spending was at approximately $2.2 million; JAG spending was about $5.5
million; and the balance of $1.5 million in spending was for other federal programs. He
referred to Director Maki’s comments earlier regarding VOCA funding. The Authority
received $78 million last federal fiscal year and will be receiving another $88 million this
federal fiscal year, he said. Each award has a three-year grant cycle. He said the Authority
completed a very transparent and comprehensive state procurement process to hire a

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 3

 technical assistance firm. Aeffect has been hired to provide this technical assistance, which
is a woman-owned firm. The firm won the project through a competitive process and had
the best price and presentation. Their victim needs assessment will be completed by
December 1, 2016. Finally, Mr. Kurtz reiterated that during calendar year 2017 the
Authority will reach a spending rate of about $70 million a year. Hearing no questions,
Chairman Robb thanked Mr. Kurtz for his report and moved on to the next agenda item.
Committee Reports
Chair Robb asked Ms. Hora for Budget Committee updates. Ms. Hora said the committee
last met on May 12. The Budget Committee approved new grants and several budget
reductions. The reductions totaled $140,000. Two new grants were made, including one to
the Authority for a drug strategy impact evaluation and one to Illinois Department of
Corrections for transitional services for females. Funding opportunities for information
sharing among criminal justice agencies and for Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime
were also approved. She noted that an award to the Illinois State Police made in 2013 was
rescinded and then designated to the Illinois Department of Human Services to enhance the
integration of systems used by ISP to collect, evaluate, and exchange criminal background
information. ISP and DHS will be working closely on this project.
With respect to the Violence Against Women Act funding, the committee approved
reductions and then approved funding designations to the Illinois Coalition Against
Domestic Violence and Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault. With respect to the
Victims of Crimes Act funding, the committee approved designations to currently funded
victim service programs. Most programs received designation amounts that reflect an
increase of 25 percent over the previous year.
Ms. Hora also informed the members of approved designations to the Illinois State Police
to augment its electronic filing system for the Sex Offender Registration and Notification
program. As for state funding, FY16 funding for Illinois Family Violence Coordinating
Councils and Safe from the Start was approved in case appropriations for the two programs
were made in the state’s stop gap budget. Chair Robb thanked Ms. Hora for her report and
asked for a Strategic Opportunities Committee Report from Ms. Wolff.
Ms. Wolff began her report by thanking Chair Robb for the kind words in her report. She
reiterated her thanks to the staff and committee members for their participation in the
committee’s important work.
Ms. Wolff referred members to a yellow piece of paper, entitled “Strategic Plan for the
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant FFY 16-19.” She said the committee
approved the draft report, which includes four sections: Strategic Plan, Principles,
Priorities, and the Process by which the Authority will achieve the strategic plan’s goals.
The Guiding Principles describe the values of the Authority’s work while the Grant Making

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 4

 Principles describe the operational procedures used to actualize the Guiding Principles. She
explained the principles came from a great deal of input and revision from members,
stakeholders, and other experts. The report also included the JAG Goals. Those, too, were
developed with much input and revision from the committee and stakeholders beginning
in November and ending with committee approval in March. Finally, the report included
the process by which the Authority will work toward the goals. This process, or Staff
Objectives, included staff activities and Committee Action Steps. Ms. Wolff highlighted a
few of the next steps in the plan. Research staff will be engaging Board members and other
criminal justice system stakeholders to identify needs of the criminal justice system.
The Committee also discussed the rigorous use of Request for Proposals (RFP) for JAG
funding and agreed to exempt the “Planning, Evaluation and Technology Improvement”
purpose area from the RFP process as the Research and Analysis Unit as well as the
Information Sharing project are functional areas of the Authority’s work.
Ms. Wolff asked that the Director Maki’s memo dated May 25, 2016 be included in the
notes, as it explains the next steps well (Attachment A). State’s Attorney Kibler asked for
a timeline on when Authority staff will be conducting the focus groups. Mr. Maki said
focus groups will be completed over the next 8 to 12 months. Staff will begin with focus
groups that will include many Board members, he said. The results of these focus groups
will inform questions to survey a larger group of criminal justice agencies, associations,
etc.
Chair Robb asked for a motion to put the JAG Strategic Plan on the next Board meeting
agenda. President Preckwinkle made the motion and Ms. Josh seconded it. The motion was
approved and adopted by unanimous vote.
Research & Practice Presentation and Panel Discussion
Director Maki introduced the Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils presentation and
panelists. He stated that the Illinois Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform Commission
has recommended coordinating councils partly because the Commission identified one
major problem with the Illinois criminal justice system—state agencies fund criminal
justice separately. This siloed funding approach prevents coordination. The Commission
report asked the Authority to establish councils across the state. Director Maki introduced
the panelists and referred members to their biographies in the meeting packet (see
Attachment Y). Panelist David Olson, Ph.D., began his presentation by explaining that
councils should create learning systems within local jurisdictions so that all systems get a
better understanding of how agencies operate but also to see themselves as interconnected
and part of the local system (Attachment B).

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 5

 Next, Director Maki asked Sentencing Policy Advisory Council Analyst Mark Powers to
present the Authority’s online data tools. Mr. Powers shared the tools and their utility
with the Board members. It is available to any jurisdiction and can be found
here: http://www.icjia.state.il.us/sac/tools/DataProfiles/CriminalJusticeDataProfiles.cfm.
Director Maki then introduced the panelists They included Judge Robb, founder of
McLean County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council; Donna Jo Maki, director of Lake
County’s Coordinating Council; Kathryn Bocanegra, violence prevention director at
Enlace and member of Governor’s Commission on Criminal Justice & Sentencing
Reform; and MaryAnn Dyar, program director of Adult Redeploy Illinois. (See
attachment C for biographies.)
Director Maki asked the panelists to explain their projects. Judge Robb explained the
origins for the McLean County’s Coordinating Council, which developed as a response to
the issue of jail overcrowding in McLean County. Two main advocacy groups pushed the
community to look at alternatives to building a new jail.
Ms. Maki also explained the 30-year origin of the Lake County Executive Justice
Council. Lake County’s work also began from the issue of jail overcrowding. Ms.
Bocanegra spoke to the need for community members and ex-offenders to be included in
councils planning and activities. She used the example of the health systems’ inclusion of
consumers in system planning. She argued that the principle of inclusion also applies to
the criminal justice system.
Ms. Dyar explained the Adult Redeploy Illinois model and ARI’s approach to local
communities. Program administrators identify natural leaders in the community and
present incarceration data to spark interest and discussion. As a multidisciplinary group
coalesces, principles and outcomes can be discussed and agreed upon.
A conversation ensued on the natural geographic boundaries for councils, essential
system players, high utilizers, and how information sharing is essential at council
meetings. Several Board members and panelists reiterated the importance of data sharing
to inform planning and suggested that assisting local communities understand available
data is one important way that the Authority can help.
Judge Robb reminded the group how important relationships are in developing effective
collaborations. Director Baldwin discussed the importance of using assessment tools to
assess risk and focusing post-release supports on one or two needs provided by one or
two providers.
Director Maki thanked the panel and presenters.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 6

 Public Comment
Chair Robb then allowed Director Maki to facilitate the public comment. The first speaker
was Theresa DuBois from Family Rescue, a domestic violence agency on the South Side
of Chicago that provides services and advocacy for victims of domestic violence. She
spoke on the importance of VOCA funds to domestic violence agencies. She said the Office
of Victims of Crime priorities include salary parity, restoration of VOCA funds lost in
previous years, and expanding services. She said she and her colleagues believe this is an
appropriate use of the VOCA funds. Ms. DuBois went on to say that the domestic violence
community has also done extensive work to evaluate the efficacy of services provided to
victims. She cited several evaluations. She encouraged the Board members to keep victims
on the agenda as the VOCA plan proceeds. Director Maki thanked Ms. DuBois for her
comments.
The second speaker was Kathy Doherty, executive director of the Chicago Metropolitan
Battered Women’s Network, a member organization for domestic violence agencies in the
Chicagoland area. She cited an example of a 25-percent increase to a local domestic
violence agency’s VOCA grant. A 25-percent increase would total $12,000, which, she
said, doesn’t do much for expanding programming or salary parity. She said a 100-percent
increase would allow her program to hire another advocate who could provide 200 victims
with services at the domestic violence courthouse. She said legal services are the second
most requested service by people calling the Statewide Domestic Violence Helpline. In
conclusion she stated that she has gained much insight from attending Authority meetings
over the past few months. She stated that her agency and member organizations look
forward to the strategic planning process and look forward to being at the table to expand
services for domestic violence victims. She stated the network has been involved in the
Authority’s Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in the past and has a lot to contribute,
including research and exceptional collaborative projects with law enforcement. She
thanked the Board for their ongoing partnership.
The third speaker was Kathryn Bocanegra. She echoed the importance of victims’ voice in
the planning process but also stressed the necessity to include the voice of community
survivors of street violence. She stressed that victims’ voices are often equated with
punitive regimes, but many families from high stakes communities want rehabilitation and
restoration of their communities. She stated that she hoped this, too, would be considered
in the expansion of victim support.
Adjourn
Chair Robb asked if there were any other members of the public who wished to make a
comment. Seeing none, she asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Hora moved to

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 7

 adjourn the meeting and the motion was seconded by Ms. Wolff. The meeting was
adjourned at 11:30 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 8

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY

Attachment A

300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

To: Strategic Opportunities Committee Members
From: John Maki, Executive Director
Date: May 19, 2016
Subject: May 25, 2016, Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Information

This memo provides a brief overview of the Committee’s work ahead of the May 25, 2016,
Strategic Opportunities Committee meeting.
At the Committee meeting April 27, 2016, we discussed action steps to be completed as outlined
in the FFY16 Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Strategic Plan approved in March. At the
conclusion of the meeting, we asked staff to develop and present recommendations on how to
move forward on these action steps.
Please find below an outline of the action steps we approved and staff’s corresponding
recommendations. These recommendations will be discussed in more detail on May 25th.
1.

Action Step: “The Committee will explore whether it should establish percentages priorities
of for Byrne JAG funding that should be set aside for particular program areas.”
•

Staff recommendations:
o Over the next 8-12 months, the Authority’s Research & Analysis Unit will survey
stakeholders to determine needs and emerging issues for the Byrne JAG priorities.
Stakeholders will include practitioners in law enforcement, prosecution, defense,
courts, probation and parole, correctional facilities, and prevention and education.
 To inform the survey, research staff will first conduct small focus groups of
stakeholders representing both JAG priority areas and Illinois’ regional and
demographic diversity. The results will be used by staff and the committee to
refine priorities consistent with the Guiding Principles and JAG Goals.
 The research staff will create a survey based on information collected in the
focus groups and disseminate it to Illinois’ larger public safety community.
o Authority staff also will gather funding information from other Illinois state agencies
that addresses or could address the needs and emerging issues identified. This
information will help us to further refine Byrne JAG priorities.
o The survey results and funding assessment will be presented to help the Committee
determine priorities

 o Staff will recommend an impact and feasibility tool to help the Committee determine
priorities.
2. Action step: “The Committee will develop particular goals and objectives for the Authority’s
use of research-informed RFPs on all of its federal grants, informed by the 2014 Illinois
Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA).”
•

Staff recommendation:
o As the Research & Analysis Unit helps identify Illinois funding priorities for Byrne
JAG programs, the Authority’s Federal & State Grants Unit will develop a timeline to
roll out competitive requests for proposals based on the Committee’s
recommendations and the findings from Action Step #1.

3. Action step: “The Committee will create criteria for how the Authority will define and assess
Byrne JAG programs that deliver a statewide benefit” and be used to potentially exempt
funding requests from a competitive process, pending Budget Committee approval.
•

Staff recommendation:
o The Authority should define “statewide benefit” as that which supports ICJIA’s
mandated purposes: “[T]o coordinate the use of information in the criminal justice
system; to promulgate effective criminal justice information policy; to encourage the
improvement of criminal justice agency procedures and practices with respect to
information; to provide new information technologies; to permit the evaluation of
information practices and programs; to stimulate research and development of new
methods and uses of criminal justice information for the improvement of the criminal
justice system and the reduction of crime; to protect the integrity of criminal history
record information, while protecting the citizen's right to privacy[.]” (20 ILCS
3930/2)
 This criterion would enable the Authority to support its research and
information-sharing capacities without the necessity of a competitive RFP
process, pending Budget Committee approval.

As you can see, we plan to have an important discussion and we will greatly appreciate your
time. Please notify Reshma Desai of your attendance status, if you haven’t already done so. We
look forward to seeing you.

2

 Attachment B

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
REGULAR QUARTERLY BOARD MEETING
Presenter Biographies
Mary Ann Dyar
Mary Ann Dyar is the Program Director for the Adult Redeploy Illinois program created by the
Crime Reduction Act of 2009 (P.A. 96-0761). Just prior to her work at the state level, Mary Ann
was Program Manager with the Justice/Violence Initiative of Chicago Metropolis 2020, a
regional planning not-for-profit organization, working on policy issues related to childhood
exposure to trauma and violence, juvenile justice, prisoner reentry, criminal law and sentencing
reform. Mary Ann holds a Master’s degree in Public Policy from the University of Chicago’s
Harris School, and undergraduate degrees in Accounting and Political Science from Indiana
University-Bloomington. She served two years as a Peace Corps volunteer in Kenya, East Africa
(1991-1993).
Kathryn Bocanegra
Kathryn Bocanegra is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker and leads Enlace Chicago’s violence
prevention department. In her career in public safety she has managed community coalitions on
early prevention and programmatic initiatives that range from school-based efforts, street
intervention, to re-entry. Her efforts received recognition for outstanding community strategy in
violence prevention from LISC Chicago (Chicago Neighborhood Development Awards) and
MetLife Foundation (Community- Police partnership). Kathryn is a member of the Illinois
Sentencing Policy Advisory Committee. In addition, Kathryn is a doctoral student at the
University of Chicago in social work and her research interests encompass community violence
prevention, developmental life course criminology, and sentencing policy.
Donna Jo Maki
Donna Jo Maki (no relation to John Maki) has been the coordinator for the Executive Justice
Council of Lake County (EJC) since October 2014. As the dedicated staff for the EJC, she is
supervised and funded by the Lake County Administrator. Prior to her coordinator position she
served as an Illinois Assistant Attorney General prosecuting persons under the Illinois Sexually
Violent Persons Commitment Act for nine years. She also served as an Assistant State’s
Attorney in McHenry County (1995-2005) and Assistant Public Defender in Lake County (19911995) on misdemeanor, juvenile and felony cases. In addition, she has served as interim Director
of the Child Advocacy Center of McHenry County (2001) and has authored numerous successful
local, state, and federal justice grants for McHenry and Lake County.

Dave Olson
David Olson is as a Professor in the Criminal Justice and Criminology Department at Loyola
University Chicago, where he is also the Graduate Program Director, and previously served as
Department Chairperson and Director of Loyola’s interdisciplinary Forensic Science Program.
For nearly 20 years, Dr. Olson worked at the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority,
where he was a Senior Scientist responsible for overseeing the evaluation of federally funded

 Attachment B

drug and violent crime control efforts in the State of Illinois. During his 29 years in the field of
criminal justice, David has worked with a variety of federal, state and local agencies to develop,
implement and evaluate programs and policies, particularly in the area of community and
institutional corrections.
Dr. Olson has published more than 100 articles, research bulletins and research reports, and has
made more than 100 presentations at professional conferences, hearings, and training symposia.
Dr. Olson received his B.S. in Criminal Justice from Loyola University Chicago, his M.A. in
Criminal Justice from the University of Illinois at Chicago, and his Ph.D. in Political
Science/Public Policy Analysis from the University of Illinois at Chicago, where he was the
recipient of the Assistant United States Attorney General’s Graduate Research Fellowship. In
2011, Dr. Olson received the Hans W. Mattick Award for outstanding accomplishments in the
field of criminology and criminal justice research from the Illinois Academy of Criminology.

Mark Powers
Mark Powers is a research analyst at the Illinois Sentencing Policy Advisory Council and
previously worked for the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA). His interests
include population projections, corrections, recidivism, applied statistics, and record linkage, and
has worked with Illinois criminal justice data for over ten years. His work that improved access
to data on the ICJIA website garnered two national awards since 2011. He received an M.A. in
Criminology from the University of South Florida and B.A.’s in Sociology and Anthropology
from the University of Illinois.
Elizabeth Robb
Former Chief Circuit Judge (11th Circuit) Elizabeth Robb was named chairman of the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority in March 2015. Ms. Robb brings more than 30 years of
legal experience to ICJIA. She served as a trial judge for 22 years on the 11th Judicial Circuit
Court of Illinois, and was the chief judge from 2004 to 2014. In that role, in addition to presiding
over trials, she had administrative responsibility for the 20 judges in the court, oversaw court
reporters, probation officers, and other court staff. Prior to becoming a judge, Ms. Robb was an
attorney at Reynard & Robb Law Offices (1982-1987) and the Robb Law Office (1987-1993).
Ms. Robb earned her bachelor’s degree from Illinois Wesleyan University and her law degree
from Loyola University of Chicago.

 Attachment C

Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils:
The Necessity, Potential and Challenges
Presented by
David E. Olson, Ph.D.
Department of Criminal Justice & Criminology and
the Center for Criminal Justice Research, Policy &
Practice
Presented to the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority, Chicago Illinois, June 3, 2016

 Program/Policy/Strategy Development &
Evolution
Identification of
What Works,
EvidenceBased Practice

2) Strategy
Development/
Strategic Planning

Logic
Model

Agency
1) Problem
Identification/Assessment,
Gap Analysis, Performance

Impact
Evaluation
Outcome
Measures

Unit
Individual
4) Program
Operation

3) Strategy
Implementation
Process
Evaluation
Performance
Measures

 Performance Measurement & Policing
• SARA
– Scanning, Analysis, Response, Assessment

• Comp-Stat
– Combined the bureaucratic model of police
management with the community-problem solving
policing approach, and real-time data analysis
capacity

 State of Illinois

50,000 ft view

Region of Illinois
Judicial Circuit

5,000 ft view

County
Agencies/Organizations in
County

Results get
“added up” to
determine the Unit/Division within Agencies
effectiveness
of system, county, Individuals within Agencies
department, &
individuals

500 ft view

1 ft view

 “Good” Policy, Management and Practice
Includes Research and Evaluation
• Research is used on an ongoing basis by agencies,
government and businesses to identify “performance
gaps” as part of an effective management process;
• The formulation of solutions/responses to identified
performance gaps relies on research and policy analysis
as a guide;
• Implemented solutions/responses are
monitored/evaluated to gauge implementation & impact
as part of an effective management process—individual,
unit, agency, system.
• However, this is rarely done ……...why?

 The Criminal Justice “System”
• Individual components (units of government, agencies,
organizations, communities) that collectively seek to
prevent and reduce crime.
– County-level makes the most sense in most places (but
not limited to county agencies)

• Not necessarily coordinated, no overarching goal or
strategy, limited systematic examination or evaluation,
and limited synthesis of information about the system’s
operations.
• No statutory “leader” or “czar” of the justice system,
but opportunities exist for leaders to emerge.
– Multidiscplinary councils (ad hoc or on-going)

 The Need for, and Benefits of, Coordinated
Strategic Plans (or at least communication)
• Need to understand how “system” operates and
how individual organizations are impacted by, and
impact, other organizations (silos;
communication).
• Need for objective information to be available to
support (or question) policy, go beyond rhetoric
towards research, and to create “learning
environments” (figuring out the “why”)
• Need to respond effectively and in an informed
way to funding opportunities, media inquiries,
crises

 What role could (should) ICJIA play?
• The origins and evolution of the “county profiles”
– State strategy and geographic allocation of resources
required extensive data collection and analyses.
– A lot of data gets collected/reported “up” but very little
gets communicated back down
– First iteration: 5,000 foot view, economy of scale, lots
of data/perspective, lots led to the water, but was there
drinking and were the dots connected?
– Ok, so now what ………….

• What now?
– Even greater amount of data available, increased
technological capacities, increased “interest”

 Opportunities and Challenges
• Challenges
– Forming, maintaining, and making the process routine
within changing political environments
– Analytic capacity to examine data at a more
detailed/localized level
– Ensuring objectivity, developing trust in the process

• Benefits
– Individual agencies/organizations having a better
understanding of how the system as a whole operates
– Having information available to answer policyrelevant questions (good or bad policy)
– Increased coordination (or at least communication)

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION
AUTHORITY

Meeting Notice
Budget Committee
Friday, September 16, 2016
2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-505
Chicago, Illinois

300 West Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Agenda

Phone: (312) 793-8550
Fax: (312) 793-8422
TDD: (312) 793-4170
http://www.icjia.state.il.us

_______________________________
_______________________________

►

Call to Order and Roll Call

1.

Minutes of the August 18, 2016 Budget Committee Meeting

2.

Justice Assistance Grants (JAG)

3.

Public Comment

►

Old Business

►

New Business

►

Adjourn

Budget Committee

Cynthia Hora
Chair
Hon. Anita Alvarez
Vice Chair

Sheriff Tom Dart
Hon. Lisa Madigan
Director Leo Schmitz
Hon. Amy Campanelli
Paula Wolff
Pamela Paziotopoulos
_______________________________
_______________________________

Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority
Elizabeth Robb
Chair
Patrick Delfino
Vice Chair
John Maki
Executive Director

This meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent
State and Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special
accommodations should contact by telephone or letter Mr. John Klaer, Office of Administrative Services, Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 West Adams Street, Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois 60606 (telephone
312/793-8550). TDD services are available at 312-793-4170.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016, at 9 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Budget Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority met on
Thursday, August 18, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room, in
Chicago, Illinois. Authority Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora, representing
Attorney General Lisa Madigan, called the meeting to order at 9:04 a.m. Authority
General Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Authority members and designees present were:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Jennifer Greene for Budget Comm. Vice Chair /
Cook Co. State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Daynia Sanchez-Bass for Cook Co. Public
Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
James O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director
Leo Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Members Present
Authority Chair Judge Elizabeth Robb
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office
Director Pat Delfino

1

Present

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Present
X
X

Telephone

Absent

 Also in attendance were:
Authority Executive Director John Maki
Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
Authority Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Authority Deputy Director Randy Kurtz
Authority Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
Andy Munemoto, representing the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget
Mark Payne, representing Ceasefire
Authority Research & Evaluation Center Manager Jessica Reichert
Authority Program Supervisor Greg Stevens
Authority General Counsel Angie Weis
Other Authority staff members and guests
Minutes of the May 12, 2016, Budget Committee Meeting
Ms. Hora requested that a correction to the minutes be made on Page 4 in the first
sentence of the third paragraph. The correction should read (correction in italics):
“…the reason some VOCA grantees did not receive a 25-percent increase was…”
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes of the May 12, 2016, Budget
Committee Meeting, as corrected. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and the motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
Senate Bill 2047 Grants / Bullying Prevention & Ceasefire
Senate Bill 2047Appropriation Summary
General Counsel Angie Weis said the language of Senate Bill 20147 limits the
appropriations to cover grant costs incurred through December 31, 2016. However, the
grants themselves could support programs until June 30, 2017. In this scenario, the
Authority would have to provide advanced grant payments to the grantees prior to
December 31, 2016, so that the Authority’s costs would be incurred prior to December
31, 2016, even though the grantees would incur costs past that date. This would be
contrary to best grant-making practices and would violate the Authority’s policy
stipulating a maximum advanced payment of 90 days.
Andy Munemoto, representing the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget
(GOMB), said GOMB’s position was that advanced payments to grantees are allowable
under law, if not under the Authority’s policies. Safeguards against loss could be put in
place, such as increased grantee reporting frequency.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 2
2

 A discussion ensued regarding the merits of making an advance payment for these
programs. A consensus emerged it would violate Authority policy to make such an
advance payment and that doing so would create potential for an adverse audit finding. It
was further agreed that that this issue should be presented to the full Authority Board at
the September 16, 2016, Regular Meeting.
Bullying Prevention & Ceasefire
Associate Director Kevin Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016,
regarding the state fiscal year 2017 funding for Senate Bill 2047-supported programs. He
described proposed designations of Bullying Prevention and Ceasefire program funds
made available via the bill. A discussion ensued regarding the merits of funding these
programs for six months.
Mark Payne, representing Ceasefire, explained how Ceasefire would expend the grant
funds by December 31, 2016.
Executive Director John Maki, in response to a question by Ms. Dunne, said that further
budgetary details regarding Ceasefire would be made available at the September 16,
2016, Regular Meeting.
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the recommended SFY17 Bullying Prevention &
Ceasefire fund designations. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded the motion and the motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
Justice Assistance Grants
U.S Bureau of Justice Assistance Special Conditions
Director Maki called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, regarding U.S. Bureau
of Justice Assistance Special Conditions for Justice Assistance Grants Section 1373, 8
USC information. He said Authority staff worked with the National Criminal Justice
Association and the Bureau on this issue, which resulted in the Bureau establishing
special conditions for grantees affected by Section 1373, 8 USC, and identified in the
inspector general’s report, including the City of Chicago and Cook County, to allow their
respective grants to run until June 30, 2017. This will provide time for affected grantees
to work with ICJIA to come into compliance with the law, find ways to justify current
policy and practice under federal law, or lobby Congress to change the law. A discussion
ensued regarding possible strategies and preparations for the Authority and affected
grantees to become compliant with the law.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 3
3

 No action on this item was necessary and none was taken.
Analysis: Metropolitan Enforcement Groups (MEGs) and Task Forces (TFs)
Authority Research & Evaluation Center Manager Jessica Reichert delivered a
PowerPoint presentation entitled “MEG/TF Process & Outcome Evaluation
preliminary findings.”
No action on this item was necessary and none was taken.
Justice Assistance Grants: FFY10-FFY15 Plan Adjustments
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, on FFY10-FFY15 Justice
Assistance Grant plan adjustments. He described:





FFY10 and FFY11 funds recently returned to the Authority.
Recommended designations of FFY11-FFY15 funds for expanding
multijurisdictional narcotics units /task force programs.
Multijurisdictional drug prosecution programs.
Other programs.

Program Supervisor Greg Stevens said the Grant Recommendation Report for the
recommended designation to Be Well Partners in Health indicated a request for a
matching funds amount less than the standard 25 percent and that the Grant
Recommendation Reports for Haymarket Center and Winnebago County indicated
requests for matching funds waivers. All three requests would continue the matching
funds requirements for the existing grants for their respective programs.
Motion: Ms. Hora called for itemized motions to approve the plan adjustments described
in the memo. All items received motions and seconds and all were unanimously
approved, with noted abstentions.
Item / Grantee
Designation
Reductions
Expanding
Multijurisdictional
Narcotics Units
Multijurisdictional
Drug Prosecution
Be Well Partners in
Health
Coles Co.

Motion
Ms. Wolff

Second
Ms. Greene

Abstentions
None

Director Delfino

Ms. Greene

Mr. O’Grady

Ms. Dunne

Hon. Robb

Ms. Wolff

Ms. Greene

Director Delfino
Ms. Greene
Ms. Dunne

Ms. Wolff

Ms. Greene

None

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 4
4

 Cook Co. Public
Defender’s Office
Cook Co. State’s
Attorney’s Office
Haymarket Center
Illinois Center of
Excellence for
Behavioral Health
and Justice
Illinois Department
of Juvenile Justice /
Lake County
State’s Attorney’s
Office / State’
Appellate
Defender’s Office
State’s Attorney’s
Appellate
Prosecutor’s Office
Winnebago County
Circuit Court

Ms. Greene

Ms. Wolff

Ms. Sanchez-Bass

Ms. Wolff

Director Delfino

Ms. Greene

Ms. Wolff
Ms. Wolff

Ms. Greene
Ms. Dunne

Ms. Dunne
Hon. Robb

Ms. Greene

Ms. Dunne

None

Ms. Sanchez-Bass

Ms. Greene

Director Delfino

Ms. Sanchez-Bass

Ms. Dunne

None

Notices of Funding Opportunity
Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime
Mr. Givens listed staff designation recommendations for the Illinois Partnerships to
Reduce Violent Crime program. They included:

Name of Applicant
Rockford Metropolitan
Agency for Planning
City of Champaign
Totals:

Jurisdiction Served
City of Rockford
Cities of Champaign and
Urbana

FFY14
Amount

Required
Match

$155,894

$51,965

$127,028
$282,922

$42,343
$94,307

Mr. Givens said staff would likely recommend two more designations for this program at
the Budget Committee Meeting on September 16, 2016.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 5
5

 Medication-Assisted Treatment for Opioid Addiction
Mr. Givens said that at the January 19, 2016, meeting, the Budget Committee approved
use of federal fiscal year 2013-2015 Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act (RSAT)
local funding for a competitive funding initiative for the selection of a county jail or
detention center to implement a medication-assisted treatment program addressing opioid
addiction. At that time, it was anticipated that RSAT local funds could provide one case
management program for a two-year period. After the meeting, staff learned increased
funding is needed to implement the program. Requested were $557,786 in FFY13 JAG
local formula set-aside funds to augment available RSAT funds designated for the
program.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended Illinois Partnerships to Reduce
Violent Crime Program designations and the use of $557,786 in FFY13 JAG local
formula set-aside funds to support jail-based medication-assisted treatment for opioid
addiction programs through a competitive funding initiative. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded
the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, on the FFY16 National
Forensic Sciences Improvement Act (NFSIA) Plan Introduction. He said that the
Authority expects receipt of Illinois’ FFY16 NFSIA award in the amount of $313,276 by
September 30, 2016. He said staff requested permission to make designations in
anticipation of these funds in an effort to expedite their expenditure.
Mr. Givens said that NFSIA funds principally are used to purchase new lab equipment
and support required proficiency testing, lab accreditation, and conference travel. In
addition, the funds support staff overtime and contractual toxicology testing to help labs
meet testing demand. Staff proposed using FFY16 NFSIA funding to support ongoing
improvements at the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office and nine crime labs across
Illinois. The following designations were recommended:
Facility
Illinois State Police
Northeastern Illinois Regional Crime Lab
DuPage County Crime Lab
Office of the Cook County Medical Examiner
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority administration costs
Total:

NFSIA FFY16
$204,119
$29,160
$29,160
$29,160
$21,677
$313,276

Mr. Givens said staff asked for permission to make across-the-board reductions of the
recommended designations amounts in the event Illinois’ award is less than expected. Mr.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 6
6

 Givens said staff will update the Budget Committee on any designation changes related
to this item at the next Budget Committee meeting.
Motion: Judge Robb moved to approve the recommended FFY16 RSAT funding
designations. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote with an abstention by Mr. O’Grady.
Prison Rape Elimination Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, on the FFY15 Prison Rape
Elimination Act (PREA) Plan Introduction. He said that PREA was “enacted to address
the problem of sexual abuse of persons in the custody of U.S. correctional agencies.
PREA calls for federal, state, and local corrections systems to have a zero-tolerance
policy regarding prison rape (as defined by PREA) in prisons, jails, police lock-ups, and
other confinement facilities…” The Illinois Department of Corrections plans to open the
Joliet Treatment Center in 2017 and IDOC seeks to improve security and prevention at
the facility by increasing surveillance capabilities. Staff recommended designating the
entire FFY15 PREA award, $119,942, to IDOC to purchase security cameras and
peripheral equipment for its Inmate Sexual Assaults Prevention and Intervention
Program.
A discussion ensued regarding PREA facility assessment and compliance with federal
guidelines.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY16 PREA fund
designation. Judge Robb seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, regarding the FFY13-16
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act plans. He introduced recommended
designation reductions and new designations. The Authority expects receipt of the FFY16
RSAT award to Illinois in the amount of $334,121 by September 30, 2016. He said staff
requested permission to make designations in anticipation of these funds in an effort to
expedite their expenditure. After deducting $27,591 for administrative costs, $306,530 is
expected to be available for grant-making. He said the Budget Committee would be
updated on designation changes related to this item at the next Budget Committee
meeting.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 7
7

 Local-Use Funds
Mr. Givens said to maximize impact of available funds, staff is supplementing RSAT
local funds with $557,786 in FFY13 JAG local dollars to support at least two
comprehensive medication assisted treatment for opioid addiction programs. A
competitive process is under way to identify agencies for program implementation.
State-Use Funds
Mr. Givens said that RSAT funds may only be used for jail and corrections-based
assessment and treatment of incarcerated persons or for aftercare programs. RSAT
Program guidelines state treatment must be provided during the last three months of a jail
sentence or the last six months of a prison sentence. The programs recommended for
funding provide screening and assessment for juvenile males at Illinois Youth Center-St.
Charles and juvenile drug treatment at Illinois Youth Center-Harrisburg and IYC-St.
Charles. RSAT funding also was recommended to support ongoing implementation of the
dual-diagnosis treatment program for incarcerated women at the Logan Correctional
facility. All treatment and assessment services are evidence-based, provided through
vendor contracts that are competitively bid and meet all staff education and certification
standards. Staff recommended a total of $208,987 in FFY16 designations to support these
programs.
Motion: Judge Robb moved to approve the recommended FFY13-16 Residential
Substance Abuse Treatment Act plan adjustments. Mr. Delfino seconded the motion and
the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, on the FFY16 Sex
Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA) Plan Introduction. He said that the
Authority expects receipt of the FFY16 SORNA award to Illinois in the amount of
$249,593 by September 30, 2016. He said staff requested permission to make
designations in anticipation of these funds in an effort to expedite their expenditure. Mr.
Givens said the Budget Committee would be updated on designation changes related to
this item at the next Budget Committee meeting.
Mr. Givens said staff recommended designating the SORNA funds to the Illinois State
Police to support its electronic filing system. Mr. Hoffman said the funds would support
ISP staff overtime incurred by digitization/scanning of paper records.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 8
8

 Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended FFY16 SORNA fund
designation. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote with abstentions from Mr. O’Grady and Ms. Wolff.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business
None.
New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Sanchez-Bass moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Wolff seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
11:13 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 9
9

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM

TO:

Budget Committee Members

FROM:

Kevin Givens, Associate Director, Federal & State Grants Unit

DATE:

September 16, 2016

RE:

FFY14 Justice Assistance Grants Plan Adjustment

RECOMMENDED DESIGNATIONS
Notices of Funding Opportunity
Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime Notice of Funding Opportunity Designation
Requests
At the May 12, 2016, Budget Committee meeting, the committee set aside $800,000 in FFY14
Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) funds to support the Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent
Crime Notice of Funding Opportunity. The goal of the Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent
Crime program is to reduce violent crime and strengthen the relationship between law
enforcement and communities by completing the Problem-Oriented Policing Scanning, Analysis,
Response and Assessment (SARA) process, building local research and evaluation capacity, and
implementing procedural justice and focused deterrence. Initial grants will be awarded for the
assessment process. Subsequent grants will be awarded for training and implementation.
Having reviewed and scored the funding opportunity submissions, staff recommends the
following designations:

Name of Applicant
Springfield Police Department
City of Peoria
Totals:

Jurisdiction Served
City of Springfield
City of Peoria

FFY14
Required
Amount
Match
$121,665
$40,555
$193,063
$64,354
$314,728 $104,909

Previously designated for this initiative were FFY14 JAG funds in the amounts of $155,894 to
the Rockford Metropolitan Agency for Planning and $127,028 to the City of Champaign,
approved at the August 18, 2016 Budget Committee meeting.

10

 JAG FFY14
September 16, 2016
Page 2

MATCHING FUNDS REQUIREMENT WAIVER REQUEST
Since the approval of the designation to the Rockford Metropolitan Agency for Planning
(RMAP) at the August 18, 2016, Budget Committee meeting for its Illinois Partnerships to
Reduce Violent Crime program, RMAP has requested a JAG match waiver based on the loss of
state fiscal year 2017 general revenue funding. No change in the federal designation is requested.
RMAP’s request for match waiver and a revised designation recommendation are attached.
Staff will be available at the meeting to answer questions.

11

 JAG FFY14
September 16, 2016 

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime – City of Springfield

Funding Source:

FFY14 Justice Assistance Grant: $121,665; 25 % Local Match

Program Description
The purpose of the Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime program is to reduce violent crime and
strengthen the relationship between law enforcement and communities by completing the Problem-Oriented
Policing SARA (Scanning, Analysis, Response and Assessment) assessment process, building local research
and evaluation capacity, and implementing procedural justice and focused deterrence. Initial grants will be
awarded for the assessment process. Subsequent grants will be awarded for training and implementation.
Program Activities 
This program supports local multidisciplinary teams (MDT) consisting of the city mayor, law enforcement,
local and federal prosecutors, community corrections (probation, parole), and community stakeholders to
enhance effective working relationships with community, criminal justice, and social service agencies;
collaborate across criminal justice agencies; and conduct crime analyses using the Problem-Oriented Policing
SARA. During the planning phase this program funds may be allocated to:
1. A full-time Project Manager to facilitate leadership development and cross system collaboration, engage in
the SARA assessment process for the MDT in partnership with an identified research partner, and develop
an implementation plan.
2. A research partner to assist the MDT in conducting crime analysis and developing an implementation plan
that includes data collection to facilitate a process and outcome evaluation.
3. Travel within Illinois to attend regional networking and information-sharing events.
Goals
The goals of the program are to reduce group-related violent crime through strengthened governmental
collaboration and increase trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve.
Priorities
This program addresses the Justice Assistance Grant Law Enforcement priority of “support[ing] programs
which provide law enforcement agencies throughout the state with the necessary means to deter, combat, and
investigate crime through strategies, staffing, training, and equipment that promotes public safety and the
common good.”
Funding Prospectus
The initial grant period will be for 12 months with a possibility to renew contingent on satisfactory progress in
the preceding performance period.

Revision Date:  8/6/15 

12

 JAG FFY14
September 16, 2016 

Past Performance
This is a new program. No prior performance can be reported.
Budget Detail
Personnel and fringe benefits

$0

Equipment

$1,200

Commodities

$1,000

Travel

$3,025

Contractual : One Program Manager ($34,375)
Sole source research partner with Southern Illinois University ($116,020)
One Social Service Coordinator ($6,600)
Total:

$156,995
$162,220

Sole Source Subcontractor Budget
Personnel and fringe benefits

$62,279

Equipment

$0

Commodities

$22,984

Travel

$8,561

Contractual : Sole source research partner with Southern Illinois University

$22,196

Total:

$116,020

For Internal Use :
Projected Start Date 

October 2016

Funding Source
Required Match % of
Designation Total 
Implementing Agency
Program Title

JAG FFY14
25%

Purpose Area (JAG only)
JAG Priority Area

City of Springfield
Illinois Partnerships to
Reduce Violent Crime
LAW
ENFORCEMENT

Law Enforcement

Total months of funding including
this designation
Funding Source
Recommended Maximum
Designation Amount
Program Agency
Project Name (if applicable)

$ 121,665.00
$ 121,665.00
Springfield Police Dept.
Illinois Partnerships to
Reduce Violent Crime

Formula Category (if applicable)

Local

JAG Sub Priority

N/A 

 
Revision Date:  8/6/15 

Twelve months

13

 JAG FFY14
September 16, 2016 

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime – City of Peoria

Funding Source:

FFY14 Justice Assistance Grant: $193,063; 25% Local Match

Program Description
The purpose of the Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime program is to reduce violent crime and
strengthen the relationship between law enforcement and communities by completing the Problem-Oriented
Policing SARA (Scanning, Analysis, Response and Assessment) assessment process, building local research
and evaluation capacity, and implementing procedural justice and focused deterrence. Initial grants will be
awarded for the assessment process. Subsequent grants will be awarded for training and implementation.
Program Activities 
This program supports local multidisciplinary teams (MDT) consisting of the city mayor, law enforcement,
local and federal prosecutors, community corrections (probation, parole), and community stakeholders to
enhance effective working relationships with community, criminal justice, and social service agencies;
collaborate across criminal justice agencies; and conduct crime analyses using the Problem-Oriented Policing
SARA. During the planning phase this program funds may be allocated to:
1. A full-time Project Manager to facilitate leadership development and cross system collaboration, engage in
the SARA assessment process for the MDT in partnership with an identified research partner, and develop
an implementation plan.
2. A research partner to assist the MDT in conducting crime analysis and developing an implementation plan
that includes data collection to facilitate a process and outcome evaluation.
3. Travel within Illinois to attend regional networking and information-sharing events.
Goals
The goals of the program are to reduce group-related violent crime through strengthened governmental
collaboration and increase trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve.
Priorities
This program addresses the Justice Assistance Grant Law Enforcement priority of “support[ing] programs
which provide law enforcement agencies throughout the state with the necessary means to deter, combat, and
investigate crime through strategies, staffing, training, and equipment that promotes public safety and the
common good.”
Funding Prospectus
The initial grant period will be for 12 months with a possibility to renew contingent on satisfactory progress in
the preceding performance period.

Revision Date:  8/6/15 

14

 JAG FFY14
September 16, 2016 

Past Performance
This is a new program. No prior performance can be reported.
Budget Detail
Personnel and fringe Benefits

$88,555

Equipment

$509

Commodities

$412

Travel

$4,033

Contractual: Sole source research partner with University of Illinois

$188,109

Total:

$281,618

Sole Source Subcontractor Budget
Personnel and fringe Benefits

$133,798

Equipment

$0

Commodities

$300

Travel

$4870

Contractual

$0

Other/Indirect Costs

$49,141

Total:

$188,109

For Internal Use:
Projected Start Date 

October 2016

Funding Source
Required Match % of
Designation Total 
Implementing Agency
Program Title

JAG FFY14
25%

Purpose Area (JAG only)
JAG Priority Area

City of Peoria
Illinois Partnerships to
Reduce Violent Crimes
LAW ENFORCEMENT

Law Enforcement

Total months of funding including
this designation
Funding Source
Recommended Maximum
Designation Amount
Program Agency
Project Name (if applicable)
Formula Category (if applicable)
JAG Sub Priority

 
Revision Date:  8/6/15 

15

Twelve Months
$193,063.00
$193,063.00
Peoria Police Dept.
Illinois Partnerships to
Reduce Violent Crime

Local
N/A 

 313 North Main Street, Rockford Illinois, 61101

September 1, 2016
RE:

Waiver Request for Illinois Criminal Justice Authority Partnerships and Strategies to Reduce Violent Crime FY 16
- Request for Proposals

This letter is written on behalf of the Rockford Metropolitan Agency for Planning (RMAP) to request a hardship waiver of the match
requirement due to fiscal hardship that has befallen RMAP, the City of Rockford and the University of Illinois. RMAP has been operating on a budget that has not received the state portion (16%) of its funding since July 1, 2015. Despite this extreme financial hardship, the organization has had to maintain the same level of service and work output as it did previously. This is because as a Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), RMAP is required to have a Unified Work Program, which is a contractual agreement between the organization’s State, Federal and Local governments in which RMAP is obligated to produce specific work elements. Despite the State’s lack of funding toward RMAP’s operations, the organization is still legally bound as the MPO to produce these
same elements to satisfy its obligation to the other contractual parties.
To mitigate this hardship, RMAP has initiated an austerity budget where staff are trying to meet demands with less resources. In
addition, the organization has gone into a line of credit with its fiscal agent, the City of Rockford. Unfortunately, the City is struggling with its own hardships. The City of Rockford is making progress in improving its financial situation since the recent recession,
but continues to face major challenges. Last fall, the City faced a $950,000 deficit, but a workaround in a budget amendment shifted $750,000 from a surplus in the city sanitation fund to handle the deficit. That, and adjustments made by the city finance department, resulted in a balanced budget, and City Council adopted a $127.9 million spending plan for 2016.
Financial challenges identified in upcoming years include fully funding capital equipment as part of the City’s annual budget and
maintaining staffing levels. The 2011 and 2012 budgets required capital equipment purchases due to equipment reaching its life
expectancy. The City Council approved a vehicle leasing policy to implement the replacement of vehicles over a four year period for
all City departments to meet the needs of the aging fleet which was amended in 2014, 2015 and suspended altogether in 2016. The
City has also reduced personnel costs by reducing city employee levels from 1212 in 2009 to 1071 in 2016.
The City of Rockford is similar to many municipalities because it has limited resources to devote to the various challenges facing it.
However, because Rockford is a non‐home rule municipality, it has fewer options than other cities in Illinois of similar size. The
budget appropriation in 2016 is $253.5 million for all funds, a decrease of $21.3 million from the 2015 appropriation of $274.8 million.
The City of Rockford’s financial hardship is not likely to resolve soon without assistance from outside the community. The City of
Rockford’s General Fund budget estimates for future years, produce the following excesses or deficits of revenues over expenditures.

Year

Excess (Deficit)

2017
2018
2019
2020
2021

(3,227)
(3,153)
(4,252)
(5,604)
(7,177)

Percent of Total Budget
(In 000’s)
‐2.5%
‐2.4%
‐3.1%
‐4.0%
‐5.1%

This five‐year budget forecast indicates annual deficits for the entire period.
Since the City has operated with a surplus for most of the last two decades, it may be that actual revenues will again exceed budgT: 779.770.7151

16

E: dnorthcott@myedd.org

 313 North Main Street, Rockford Illinois, 61101

ets and departments will under expend their budgets. This scenario may eliminate these initial deficits, but the uncertainty makes
planning funding for new initiatives, particularly committing match funding for grant programs, difficult.
RMAP does not foresee improvements in the funding situation for itself or its fiscal agent, the City of Rockford within the next year.
Without a waiver to the match requirement, it is likely the proposed program will not be able to move forward. RMAP therefore
respectfully requests a waiver of the grant’s stated match requirements.
Thank you for your consideration,

Dana Northcott
Executive Director

T: 779.770.7151

17

E: dnorthcott@myedd.org

 