ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
March 29, 2016 at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200 - Large Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60606

1. Call to Order and Roll Call
The Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority met on Tuesday, March 29, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference
Room, Chicago, Illinois. SOC Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 10:03 a.m.
Other Authority members and designees present were:
Acting Director John Baldwin (via teleconference)
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director Patrick Delfino (via teleconference)
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Director Michael J. Pelletier
Lanetta Haynes-Turner for President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Chief Rick Tanksley
Also in attendance were:
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Kevin Givens, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Associate Director
Lisa Castillo, Authority Associate General Counsel
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Administrative Assistant
James Hickey, Chicago Police Department
Shai Hoffman, Authority Program Supervisor
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Mary Ratliff, Authority Program Director (via teleconference)
Randy Kurtz, Authority Deputy Director
Mary Ann Dyar, Authority Program Director
Lindsey LaPointe, Authority Program Manager
Daynia Sanchez-Bass of the Cook County Public Defender’s Office
Linda Taylor, Authority Criminal Justice Specialist
Other Authority staff members and guests.

 2. February 25, 2016 Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) Meeting Minutes
Ms. Hora requested two corrections:
1. Page 3, second paragraph, third sentence, the term victim’s should be plural
possessive.
2. Page 3, third paragraph, third sentence, the term consultant’s should be plural, but
not possessive.
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to approve the Minutes of the December 8, 2015 SOC
meeting, as corrected. Sheriff McCoy seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous
voice vote.

3. Discussion and Approval of Revised Guiding Principles
SOC Chair Wolff introduced the Authority’s Guiding Principles. She said that the
Guiding Principles had originally been introduced in draft form and suggested revisions
were included in the draft presented at this meeting. These overarching principles will
guide the Authority’s grant-making and research activities.
Director Maki said that these Guiding Principles would be incorporated into future
requests-for-proposals (RFPs) and budget recommendations.
Ms. Hora said that a victim service provider had contacted her with comments relating to
Guiding Principle #10, Collaboration; specifically that victim service providers’ roles are
not necessarily intended to address expedience through collaboration in the justice
system. She said that there was also concern about the term information sharing as it
might conflict with victim privilege; she suggested revising that to say appropriate
information sharing.
The consensus of the committee was to add the word “appropriate” and to ask Ms. Hora
to relay to the provider that the intent of the language is not to interfere with victim
privilege. The record should also show that measured access to justice and responsibility
to victims by service providers are absolutely the intentions of the principles. The
committee wanted this to be incorporated in the minutes so Ms. Hora could assure the
provider that the concerns were understood. The new goal will read:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
March 29, 2016
Page 2

 Collaboration: The sectors of criminal justice system and victim service providers should
collaborate to provide efficient, effective, and expedient justice. This collaboration
should foster cross-system coordination and appropriate information sharing.
Motion: Ms. Campanelli moved to approve the Guiding Principles, as amended. Chief
Tanksley seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote. The final version
of the Guiding Principles is attached to these minutes as Attachment A.
4. Discussion and Approval of Revised Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) Goals
Executive Director Maki called attention to a document in the meeting materials entitled
Goals for JAG Purpose Areas. He said that these would be the goals around which the
Authority calibrates its work in the pursuit of outcomes and objectives by which the
Authority’s effectiveness can be measured.

Corrections and Community Corrections
Ms. Hora said that the Goal under Corrections and Community Corrections was
described in an unnecessarily long sentence. She requested a correction; that services to
offenders should be revised to service offenders. The Committee agreed by consensus.
The new Goal will read:
To provide resources both to enhance the safety of correctional facilities, victims and the
public by supporting research informed or promising behavioral change programming
informed by proven risk assessment and also to service offenders with mental illness,
developmental disabilities and substance use disorders in order to reduce reoffending,
with an emphasis on programming that allows offenders to safely remain in their
communities and to pay restitution to victims of their crimes.
Prosecution, Court Programs, and Indigent Defense
Director Delfino, referring to the Indigent Defense Goal, said that consideration should
be given to supporting pro-bono counsel in addition to public defenders, particularly in
counties where the public defenders are part-time and they sometimes conflict with probono appointees. Ms. Wolff stated the minutes should reflect this point since it is the
intent of the Goals as proposed by the Committee.
Director Maki said that the Preamble attempted to address that in its last sentence; “Any
implementation of these goals will take into account a proportional distribution of funds

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
March 29, 2016
Page 3

 to all parts of the criminal justice system and respect the geographical needs across
Illinois.”
Motion: Ms. Haynes-Turner moved to approve the Revised JAG Goals, as amended.
Sheriff McCoy seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.
The final version of the JAG Goals document is attached to these minutes as Attachment
B.

5. Discussion of Revised Byrne Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) Strategic Plan
Director Maki called attention to the document in the meeting materials entitled Illinois
Criminal justice Information Authority Strategic Plan: Edward Byrne Memorial Justice
assistance Grant for Federal Fiscal Years 2016-2019 (DRAFT). He said that this
document puts the principles and goals that have already been approved into an active
planning and implementation context. He said that this strategic plan is JAG-specific and
that similar plans were being developed for other major federal programs / funding
sources.
Strategic Plan
Ms. Hora requested that the last sentence of the last paragraph under Strategic Plan read,
“Eventually, all of the Authority’s major federal public safety and victim services
formula block grants will be encompassed in an overall plan…” The Committee agreed
and accepted that change by consensus. The new sentence in its entirety will read:
Eventually, all of the Authority’s major federal public safety and victim service formula
block grants will be encompassed in an overall plan, centered in a set of foundational
principles and priorities, and anchored in a dynamic process involving the Board and its
oversight committees, agency staff, and the agency grantees.
Grantmaking Principles
Ms. Hora requested that experience in the field be added as a foundational item in
Grantmaking Principle #2 along with the best available research, evaluation, practice,
and professional advice.
SOC Chair Wolff said that such experience would fall under practice in that list and that
the minutes of the Committee will reflect the intent to include “experience and
knowledge” in Grantmaking Principle #2.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
March 29, 2016
Page 4

 Ms. Hora requested that, in addition to the existing items, some portion of available
federal and state funds should be use for core victim services.
SOC Chair Wolff said that the four items listed on Page 4 were not intended to
countermand any of the previous Principles, but were listed to draw attention to
additional issues as appropriate. Mr. Maki suggested a slight revision above the four
items on Page 4 to replace “Also” with “In addition”. The new sentence will read:
In addition, to the extent permitted by program guidelines, some portion of available
federal and state funds should be used for the following:
Priorities
Ms. Hora requested that the headline in the block on Page 5 of the memo read,
“Authority-Administered Federal Public Safety and Victim Service Formula Block
Grants.” The Committee agreed by consensus. The new heading will read:
“Authority-Administered Federal Public Safety and Victim Service Formula Block
Grants”.
Process for Byrne JAG Grantmaking, FFY 2016-18
Ms. Hora requested that the following edit be made to the second sentence of Item 2,
“Without a policy, match requirements have been has inconsistent…”
Mr. Hickey requested that the following edit be made to the second sentence of Item 3,
“This is problematic, as The best way to ensure…”
SOC Chair Wolff requested that the following edit be made to the first sentence of Item
3, “Too few of the Authority’s past Byrne JAG grants are designed, supported, or
evaluated by research.”
Ms. Hora requested that Item 1 under Authority Staff Objectives read, “The Authority
will assess all Byrne JAG Grantees based on the Authority’s Guiding and Grantmaking
Principles and JAG Program Goals.
All these suggestions were incorporated by consensus of the Committee.
Authority Staff Objectives
Pursuant to a lengthy discussion, the SOC suggested that, pending Authority Board
approval, letters should be sent to the Authority’s grantees addressing the recent request
for grantee self-assessments and describing the new Guiding and Grantmaking principles

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
March 29, 2016
Page 5

 and processes. The letter will be distributed to the Committee once the letter has been
drafted and sent.
Director Maki described the Authority Staff Objectives and Committee Action Steps
proposed for the first year of the Byrne JAG Grantmaking planning process. He stated
that the Staff Objectives and Committee Action Steps will be revised and should be
considered an ongoing project.
Motion: Ms. Campanelli moved to approve the Illinois Criminal justice Information
Authority Strategic Plan: Edward Byrne Memorial Justice assistance Grant for Federal
Fiscal Years 2016-2019, as amended. Ms. Hora seconded the motion and it passed by
unanimous voice vote. That Plan in its amended form is attached to the minutes at C.

6. Other Business
None.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to adjourn the meeting. Director Pelletier seconded the motion
and it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:17 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
March 29, 2016
Page 6

 