ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Regular Authority Meeting
Friday, September 11, 2015 at 9:00 a.m.
300 W. Adams, 2nd Floor Conference Room
Chicago, IL
AGENDA


Call to Order and Roll Call



Approval of the Minutes of June 5, 2015, Regular Meeting (Minutes to be
provided.)



Old Business

Resolutions of Commendation



New Business

Revision: ICJIA’s Grant Making Principles



Public Comment



Chairman's Remarks



Executive Director's Report and Remarks



ICJIA Financial Report



Committee Reports



Presentations & Discussion
 The State of Crime Control in Illinois: Dr. Megan Alderden, ICJIA
 Don’t Shoot: Focused Deterrence in Peoria: Tate Chambers, U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the Central District



Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State and
Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should
contact by telephone or letter to Randy Kurtz, Deputy Director, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St.
Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150 or at (312) 793-8550. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 AUTHORITY RESOLUTION #2 (2001)
Revised 2015
Grant Making Principles
WHEREAS, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority has identified the need
for adopting overarching principles to guide its grant making;
WHEREAS, the formulation of such principles has been considerate of previous
discussions of the Authority and workgroups contributing to the State Criminal Justice
Plan, recommendations contained in the State Criminal Justice Plan, and the Authority's
administrative experience with the grant making function; and
WHEREAS, these principles were reviewed and discussed in past meetings of the
Authority and in joint meetings of its Budget and Planning & Research Committees,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority hereby adopts the following grant making principles:
1.

The Authority should strive to maximize the use of available federal and state
funds, seeking any and all reasonable alternatives to lapsing funds back to the
federal or state government.

2.

The Authority's decision to award federal and state funds should have a
foundation in the best available research, evaluation, practice and professional
advice.

3.

The Authority's decision to award federal and state funds should be considerate of
the balance of resources across the justice system and its potential impact in other
areas of the system.

4.

The Authority's federal and state funds should not result in the duplication of
efforts already in place.

5.

The Authority's federal and state funds cannot be used to supplant other funds.

6.

The Authority's federal and state funds should be allocated (a) to areas
demonstrating need based on an analysis of the nature and extent of the
problem(s), and (b) to programs in areas where there is an opportunity to impact
the identified problem(s).

Also, to the extent permitted by program guidelines, some portion of available federal
and state funds should be used for the following:
7.

To encourage collaborative approaches to problem solving, planning and program
implementation;

 8.

To encourage innovative pilot or demonstration projects;

9.

To evaluate funded projects and support an ongoing program of research designed
to further planning and program development; and

10.

To build the capacity of those in the criminal justice system.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that these principles be made publicly available and
are widely disseminated;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Authority, its various committees and staff
ensure that, to the extent permitted by program guidelines, the Authority's grant making
process is consistent with these principles.
ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY this 1st day of June 2001, after a motion by Mr. Piland
and second by Ms. Engel.

Peter B. Bensinger
Chairman

Candice M. Kane
Executive Director

 MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, June 5, 2015 at 9:01 a.m.
300 West Adams Street, 2nd Floor Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois

I. Roll Call
Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the June 5, 2015
quarterly Board Meeting of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information authority. She
called the meeting to order and asked General Counsel Lisa Stephens to call the roll.
In addition to Chair Robb, Authority Board Members in attendance were:
State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Sheriff Thomas J. Dart
Director Patrick Delfino
Ms. Cindy Hora
Director Michael Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle
Ms. Angela R. Rudolph
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Ms. Paul Wolff
II. Approval of Minutes of December 5, 2014 Board Meeting
With a quorum in place, Chair Robb asked for a motion to adopt the minutes of the
December 5, 2014 Authority Board Meeting.
{Ms. Cindy Hora so moved with Public Defender Amy Campanelli seconding the
motion. With no response to a call for discussion, the motion was adopted by unanimous
voice vote.}
III. New Business: Consideration of Proposed Open Meetings Act Public Comment
Rules
Chair Robb then proceeded to the next item on the agenda, approval of Proposed
Opening Meetings Act Public Comment Rules. She noted that a copy previously had
been sent to the Board and asked for a motion to approve.

1

 {President Preckwinkle so moved with Ms. Paula Wolff seconding the motion. After a
call for discussion, Ms. Hora questioned whether the rules were too restrictive, yet
acknowledged that they needed to convey that not any subject can be discussed. Ms.
Wolff suggested adding language to indicate that any discussion needed to be germane to
the business of the Authority. At that point, President Preckwinkle agreed as did Ms.
Wolff and upon a call for a vote, the rules were adopted as amended by unanimous voice
vote.}
IV. Old Business: Approval of Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Strategic Plan
for 2014-16
Next, Chair Robb turned to approval of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
Strategic Plan for 2014-2016, which she also mentioned was sent to Board Members. At
that point, ICJIA Victim Services Program Administrator Ronnie Reichgelt summarized
the plan, explaining that it is mandated by the Office on Violence Against Women for
three years of funding for the Services-Training-Officers-Prosecutors (S.T.O.P) Violence
Again Women Act Program for the State of Illinois.
Chair Robb then asked for a motion to approve the Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) Strategic Plan for 2014-2016.
{State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez so moved, with President Preckwinkle seconding the
motion. With no response for further discussion, the motion was adopted by unanimous
voice vote.}
V. Introduction of Authority Board Members
Chair Robb remarking that this was her first meeting as Chair, said how pleased she was
to be named to this position. After giving her background, she asked all the Board
members in attendance to do the same. After each responded, she thanked them and
moved on to the next agenda item, turning the meeting over to Executive Director John
Maki.
VI. The Authority’s Mission and Core Work
Director Maki said he was appointed by Governor Rauner in January, 2015, after having
been the Executive Director of the John Howard Association. He added that he also was
a previous Authority Board Member, being the first Executive Director to have had that
background.
Before giving his presentation, Director Maki introduced and welcomed a special guest,
Cabell Cropper, the Executive Director of the National Criminal Justice Association in
Washington, D.C. Director Maki explained that the Association is the umbrella
organization of all the counterparts of the Authority across the country and brings an
impressive national perspective to the area of criminal justice.

2

 Director Maki then gave background on the Authority, mentioning its vision to use grants
administration, research and analysis, policy and planning, and information sharing
technology to improve the criminal justice system. He explained that was the statutory
vision that began with the Authority in 1983 as an outgrowth of the vision of the Illinois
Law Enforcement Commission, the Authority’s predecessor – to bring together the entire
state criminal justice system to analyze it in terms of its needs, its strengths, and its
opportunities for improving it.
Continuing his presentation, Director Maki noted that the Authority has an amazingly
strong national reputation, benefitting from decades of leadership, particularly in the
eighties and nineties, and is known for using research that drives policy that informs
funding. He then emphasized that it was his goal, the goal of the core staff and hopefully
the goal of the Board to strengthen the Authority as the leader in the state in this pursuit.
Director Maki then referred to the importance of the core executive staff and his reliance
upon them, inviting the Board’s reliance on them as well and introduced them. He
started with Dr. Megan Alderden, who was hired after a national search as the Associate
Director of Research and Analysis. Dr. Alderden outlined the functions of the Research
and Analysis Unit and indicated that she was not going to talk about these activities
specifically, but overall of how to use them to inform and move the criminal justice
system forward from where it is today.
At that point, President Preckwinkle indicated an area she would like added: the
disproportionate impact of the criminal justice system on black and brown communities.
Dr. Alderden agreed and stressed that she was very open to suggestions for additional
areas to address and measure.
Director Maki then thanked Dr. Alderden and introduced the Authority’s General
Counsel and Chief of Staff Lisa Stephens. He noted that Ms. Stephens is intimately
involved with every function of the Authority and thanked her for her assistance, which
he said helped him navigate through his first days as to the essential accountability of the
agency.
Ms. Stephens thanked him and outlined the responsibilities of the office of General
Counsel as: complying with the highest ethical standards per the State’s Ethics Act and
federal regulations; and holding the Authority and grantees accountable by ensuring
Authority operations are informed by best practices, along with ensuring full and timely
return of unspent or misspent funds. She added that she learned her responsibilities the
first day of her previous position as an Assistant Cook County State’s Attorney.
Ms. Stephens continued to say that the Office of General Counsel in line with its
overarching themes of transparency and accountability recovered over $4,000,000 in
unspent or unallowable funds from grantees over the last two years. She then thanked
her staff of attorneys, whom she said bring years of professionalism, knowledge and
experience to the Office of General Counsel.

3

 Director Maki thanked General Counsel Stephens and introduced Mike Carter, Director
of Special Projects and Information Sharing. He said that Mr. Carter would report on how
the Authority is reviving the use of information to drive policy which was envisioned
when the Authority was created in 1983. Director Maki said that Mr. Carter is on the
forefront of making this happen, getting national recognition.
Mr. Carter thanked Director Maki and reviewed work starting three years ago to
strengthen the Authority’s role and statutory responsibility of coordinating and
developing information sharing within the criminal justice system. He recounted an
atmosphere of information ownership among different agencies and departments at that
time. He then reviewed statewide forums the Authority sponsored that brought national
case studies to Illinois, showcasing the Authority’s potential for what information sharing
can solve.
At that point, Mr. Carter showed a slide depicting the current inadequate, ineffective
information sharing environment in Illinois. He then outlined the high costs of
information sharing because of the archaic methods used. Moving on he showed a slide
portraying an improved information sharing environment using the platform of the
Illinois Data Exchange Coordinating Council which the Authority has proposed to the
Governor. He explained that the platform would bring together agency directors and
others to address governance for creating an information sharing environment for Illinois.
He then outlined how it would work, not only to be more effective but more economical,
and reviewed steps the Authority has taken in conjunction with the Governor’s Office
including a letter sent to agency directors informing them of this direction.
He pointed out that meetings will be taking place with those agency directors to facilitate
their operational personnel working together to solve the current problems of information
sharing and improve the system. Mr. Carter mentioned the steps that will need to be
taken through the Authority’s leadership of the Illinois Data Exchange Coordinating
Council. President Preckwinkle then inquired if the Governor can create the Council by
fiat or if it requires legislative action.
In response, Mr. Carter reported that the initial approach is the issuance of an Executive
Order; however in contacts with legislators, there is legislative interest. He further
reported that the Authority has promised to deliver a full-blown strategy within 12
months that also will include a return on investment, adding that he is confident once that
document is in place, legislative support will be sought.
In the discussion that followed, questions were asked and comments were made by Ms.
Paula Wolff, Public Defender Amy Campanelli, President Toni Preckwinkle, Ms. VollenKatz and and Ms. Hora concerning the strategy that Mr. Carter outlined, with Director
Maki further explaining the Authority’s role in creating and overseeing the Illinois Data
Exchange Coordinating Council. He thanked Mr. Carter and then introduced Randy
Kurtz, Deputy Director and Chief Financial Officer.

4

 He explained that one of his first priorities when becoming Executive Director was hiring
Mr. Kurtz for his significant private sector experience. Director Maki noted that Mr.
Kurtz is basically in charge of all Authority operational activities, overseeing Human
Resources, Grants, Information Technology, Fiscal and the Office of Administrative
Support. Director Maki then asked Mr. Kurtz to discuss the Authority’s grant work,
efforts to “unsilo” the Authority, and use of a SWOT perspective – Strengths,
Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats.
Mr. Kurtz thanked Director Maki and stated that with respect to Grants Manager a
process will be underway to hire a new Grants Manager because the incumbent, Wendy
McCambridge, will be leaving the middle of June for another position. He said Ms.
McCambridge, who served the Agency for three years, will be missed. He added that
internal and external candidates will be interviewed and that the position is important
overseeing 20 staff.
Mr. Kurtz continued to say that because the grants unit is very good, he is comfortable to
take a few months to fill the position and that the situation is not an emergency, but an
opportunity. He added that regarding grants, over the last nine months an internal work
group with staff from fiscal, legal and the grants unit has been working on reforming the
Authority’s grant-making process. He explained that the group is developing some new
and different procedures with respect to areas such as timing and requests for proposals
(RFPs) and that more information in line with that endeavor would be discussed at a
future meeting on policy reform.
Mr. Kurtz then noted that in line with legislation now in place, the Grant Accountability
and Transparency Act (GATA), two Authority staff, Deputy General Counsel Junaid
Afeef and Grants Unit member Jude Lemrow, are serving on state committees tasked
with how to apply the Act to all state grant making operations. He added that the
Governor’s Office of Budget and Management (GOMB) values the Authority’s grant
making. He then moved on to the area of Authority Management and Talent
Development, stating that in line with Director Maki’s vision to make the Authority the
best run state agency, several functions have been undertaken.
He noted that he and Director Maki conducted one-on-one meetings with all staff
members, job descriptions were updated, performance reviews are underway to
completion for 100 percent of staff by July 1, and efforts are being undertaken to breakdown “silos,” moving groups inside to work better together. At that point, Director Maki
thanked Mr. Kurtz and discussed the SWOT analyses that have been taking place with
each unit.
Next, Director Maki called on Mr. Cropper who noted that the National Criminal Justice
Association is a good resource to use to assist with federal funding and described a
number of the ways. Director Maki thanked Mr. Cropper and moved onto a discussion of
the role of the Board.

5

 VII. The Role of the Board
Director Maki noted that he wanted to bring the role of the Board back to identifying and
addressing the most important issues which are affecting our justice system. He
continued to say to accomplish that mission, the Board needs to be the Coordinating
Council.
In the discussion that followed, suggestions were made about better utilization of the
Budget and other Committees, Board Policy and how to improve Board Meetings.
Director Maki then talked about constituting a Strategic Opportunities Committee, and
described its function. He also mentioned creating a Violence Prevention Committee. A
discussion followed about other aspects of the role of the Board and Board meetings,
leading to re-arranging when Public Comments take place, with President Preckwinkle
suggesting they come after roll-call. Other suggestions were made for future discussion.
such as earlier distribution of materials so that Board Members have sufficient time to
review and study them.
VIII. Board Resolutions
At that point, Chair Robb indicated that the quorum diminished with several Board
Members having to leave. Therefore she stated that Board resolutions to honor prior
Board Members and staff would need to be referred to the next Board Meeting for
adoption, which was scheduled for Friday, September 4. Because that being the Labor
Day weekend, it was noted that the Board Meeting might be moved to the following
Friday, which would be announced.
IX. Public Comment
Chair Robb then opened the meeting to public comment. In response, an attendee
identified herself as Queen Sister, saying that she represents “It Takes A Village
Organization,” and explained that it is of service and assistance to people. She went on to
criticize several Authority Board Members, at which point Chair Robb advised her that
rules were adopted earlier at the meeting that require comments to be germane to the
discussion of substantive matters and asked her to please tailor her comments
accordingly.
Queen Sister then asked that the Authority please apply time and attention to the black
state of emergency. She said she was going to present a proposal requesting $100,000 for
her organization to address the problem and asked that she be met with assistance rather
than resistance. Chair Robb then advised her that a three-minute limit for Public
Comment was adopted and thanked her. She asked if there were other public comments.
X. Adjourn
Hearing no other requests, and without a quorum, Chair Robb thanked everyone for
attending and adjourned the meeting.

6

 