ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board (IRB)
Meeting Minutes
Thursday, February 18, 2016 – 1:00 P.M.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA)
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606
I.

Call to Order/Roll Call

The IRB Chair, Dr. Rachel Johnston, called the meeting to order at 1:05 P.M. Simeon Kim, Associate
General Counsel for ICJIA, called roll.
Member Name
Dr. Rachel Johnston, Chair
Director John Maki, ICJIA
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak

Present
X

Absent

Telephone

X
X
X
X
X
X

Six members were present in person, and a quorum was established.
II.

Approval of Meeting Minutes – October 8, 2015.

Dr. Johnston asked for any comments or questions regarding the meeting minutes of October 8, 2015.
Dr. Harrington stated that page three, third paragraph, Revisions at the end of the paragraph, should read
“minimal risk or more than minimal risk” instead of “some”. Saying that there is some risk does not
capture it. Dr. Johnston agreed stating that the IRB should stick with categories. Dr. Johnston asked for a
motion to approve the modified October 8, 2015 meeting minutes. Dr. Harrington moved to approve the
meeting minutes. Ms.Szilak seconded the motion. The motion was approved, as modified, by a
unanimous voice vote.
III.

Full IRB Application Review
A. Sexual Assault Investigations in Rural Communities

Principal Investigator: Megan Alderden

Page 1 of 6

 Background: Law enforcement agencies serving rural communities face challenges that impact their
ability to conduct sexual assault investigations, including the availability of trained and experienced
investigators and other agency resources (e.g., evidence technicians). The purpose of the study is to
learn more about the training needs, experiences, and challenges faced by police investigators charged
with overseeing sexual assault investigations in rural communities Researchers will conduct focus
groups with investigators from local police and rape advocates.
Discussion: Dr. Johnston asked if anyone had any question, comments, or suggestions. Dr. Harrington
made a suggestion that in the informed consents, where it states that everyone will be told not to repeat
the information, it might be better to ask participants not the repeat the information, so that it is not so
much a directive as it is a request.
Dr. Dan Cooper entered the room. Dr. Johnston asked that the record reflect that Dan Cooper had joined
the meeting.
Vote: Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to approve the IRB application. Dr. Harrington moved to
approve. Ms. Szilak seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a unanimous voice vote.
B. Illinois Department of Corrections Staff Survey
Principal Investigator: Jessica Reichert
Background: The study will examine prison correctional staff jobs. Researchers will analyze how
various stressors, coping factors, and status characteristics influenced three types of stress: work stress,
job dissatisfaction, and life stress. This study can aid in the understanding of correctional staff
employment and offer recommendations to improve work quality and work conditions, to improve their
work and home lives, increase productivity, and ensure safety of inmates.
Discussion: Dr. Johnston asked if there were any questions or concerns. Ms. Szilak asked if this should
be run by AFSME, the correctional union, to see if they have any input. Ms. Reichert stated it did not
come up when she talked to the Department of Corrections.
Ms.Laudermilk stated that not all DOC employees have access to computers or logins. She asked if this
has been addressed. Ms. Reichert stated that according to IDOC, there is a place they could go to take
the survey. Ms. Laudermilk stated that it could be helpful to know whether they are line staff versus
supervisor versus officer personnel for research purposes.
Dr. Harrington stated that in the section “What are the benefits for the survey”, he has a problem with
the use of the word “vital” because there is some level of psychological coercion. Replace the word
“vital” with something like “will help to enhance.” Dr. Harrington stated that in the next sentence it
sounds as if you will be making recommendations for each individual. That sentence should be revised
so that it does not sound like the staff are getting personal feedback. It needs to be more general such as
for future planning and safety.
Dr. Cooper asked if there is any risk of supervisors not looking favorably on those taking the time to
take the survey. He suggested letting people know that you will reach out to supervisors to allow
everyone to participate.
Page 2 of 6

 Vote: Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to approve. Ms. Szilak made a made a motion to approve. Dr.
Cooper seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a unanimous voice vote.
C. Illinois Drug Threat Assessment Survey
Principal Investigator: Jessica Reichert
Brief Background: Researchers at ICJIA are collecting drug data from law enforcement (police chiefs
and sheriffs) through an online survey. Data when combined with similar data collected statewide will
be invaluable in learning about, and comparing, state and national drug trends.
Discussion: Dr. Johnston asked if this is redundant for any of the recipients of the survey, since the DEA
sent out a similar survey. Ms. Reichert stated that it is possible, but she does not know, because the DEA
will not provide her with a list of who filled it out.
Dr. Harrington questioned if this is even “research”. He stated that if it is research that needs informed
consent, he recommends not using the word “vital” for the reasons discussed before.
Vote: Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to approve. Dr. Cooper made a motion to approve the IRB
application. Ms. Szilak seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a unanimous voice vote.
IV.

Amendment IRB Application Review

A. Study of mental health, PTSD, and trauma exposure in a sample of male jail detainees in drug
treatment
Principal Investigator: Jessica Reichert
Amendment requested: Changing the number of subjects. In order to complete statistical analysis to
make inferences about the statistical population (males in the criminal justice system), researchers want
to have a larger sample size.
Discussion: Dr. Johnston asked if anyone had any questions or concerns. Dr. Harrington asked if there
were there any adverse reactions so far from those who already participated. Ms. Reichert stated there
were none.
Vote: Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to approve. Dr. Cooper made a motion to approve the
Amendment IRB application. Dr. Long seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a unanimous
voice vote.
B. Process Evaluation of the Don’t Shoot Initiative Peoria
Principal Investigator: Megan Alderden; presented by Dr. Lynne Mock
Amendment requested: Protocol change. Component 1: Change from participant survey to participant
interviews. Component 2: Add analyses of call-in videos. Consent procedure change. Component 1:
There will be a hard copy consent form for subjects to sign. Component 2: We view these videos as
administrative data and would like a waiver of consent for these data. Consent documents change. The
Page 3 of 6

 consent form will ask subjects to sign rather than click “agree” on an online form, reflect an interview
rather than an online survey, and inform that the interview will be audio-recorded. Project sites or study
participants change. Researchers cannot recruit from a large pool of prior program participants (with cell
numbers). Researchers will recruit subjects who have followed up with services and can be provided
with a flyer by the program in person. Researchers will recruit subjects immediately following a call-in
session (face-to-face). A private space large enough to accommodate a small group will be used. The
space will be in a neutral location that is relatively close to the participants’ home or work.
Confidentiality, Privacy, or Security change. Audio recording – the interviews will be open-ended and
longer and researchers do not want to miss anything.
Discussion: Ms. Szilak had concern over the consent form with regard to gang membership. Gang
association could be used to violate a person’s parole. That could be a concern for some of the subjects.
Dr. Mock said that the consent forms can make it clear that this information will not be shared with law
enforcement or probation. Dr. Harrington asked if a certificate of confidentiality is needed. Ms. Reichert
stated that the project is federally funded, so an extra certificate is not necessary. Dr. Johnston stated that
any study that is federally funded is automatically covered by confidentiality laws.
Dr. Johnston asked if question #4, would you say you are in a gang, is necessary for the research. Ms.
Reichert stated that the question verifies if they should even be in the call-in. Ms. Szilak stated that
question is good; otherwise the identification is just based on the police. Ms. Laudermilk suggested
changing the wording of questions six and seven to reflect their personal knowledge. Ms. Laudermilk
asked if any red flags were raised by the $50 gift cards being an undue influence for parolees having a
hard time getting employment. Ms. Szilak thought the opposite. She feels that people should get more
money for their time. Dr. Harrington agreed that $50 is coercive, but this is an in-person interview and
there are expenses in getting there and their time.
Vote: Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to approve. Ms. Laudermilk made a motion to approve. Dr.
Harrington seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a unanimous voice vote.
Dr. Mock asked if the board wanted questions four and six to be modified. Dr. Johnston stated that Dr.
Mock heard the recommendations and the discussion, but the board is not going to hold up approval.
C. Evaluation of the Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council Protocol Training
Principal Investigator: Dr. Lynne Mock
Amendment requested: Protocol change. In order to enhance our evaluation of the Illinois Family
Violence Coordinating Council’s (IFVCC) training protocols, we would like to add field observationresearchers will conduct field observations using a training observation checklist that will provide us
with information about how the training was conducted, how much content was covered, and how
conducive the environment was for the training. Project Sites or Study Participants change. We currently
conduct assessments with training participants. We would like observe the training environment and to
what extent trainers use the training materials available – or supplement them.
Discussion: Dr. Long wanted to know what Dr. Mock’s concerns were regarding the trainings. Dr. Mock
stated that the exact address was not clear, there were loud random noises during the presentation,
training materials were not always used, and the audio playback of 911 calls were not clear.
Page 4 of 6

 Vote: Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to approve. Dr. Long made a motion to approve. Ms. Szilak
seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a unanimous voice vote.
V.
Renewal IRB Application Review – Evaluation of St. Leonard’s Ministries Temporary
Supportive Housing Programs
Principal Investigator: Jessica Reichert
Brief Background: St. Leonard’s Ministries (SLM) operated two temporary, supportive, residential
programs. St. Leonard’s House (SLH) provided housing for adult men exiting prison and Grace House
(GH) provides housing for adult women exiting prison. The goal of the study was to identify program
components that are effective in contributing to successful resident outcomes, as well as learn about the
programs’ residents and operations. This information will educate criminal justice professionals and the
public about the potential benefit of a long-term, structured reentry program for formerly incarcerated
men and women. 2 of 4 reports have been published. All data has been collected.
Discussion: Dr. Johnston asked if there were any questions or concerns. There was no discussion.
Vote: Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to approve. Ms. Szilak made a motion to approve. Dr. Cooper
seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a unanimous voice vote.
VI.

Expedited IRB Application Review – Juvenile Sex Offender Study

Principal Investigator: Erica Hughes
Brief Background: The purpose of this study is to examine administrative data to identify juvenile sex
offender trends, characteristics of juvenile sex offenders, and their justice system involvement
Discussion: Dr. Johnston asked if there were any questions or concerns. Dr. Harrington then asked why
this isn’t exempt rather than expedited. Dr. Johnston stated that the data is not completely de-identified
because it has a state ID, and you can go back to where you got the original data to get the state ID key.
Dr. Harrington stated that the data is de-identified in the sense that you only have numbers, but there is a
key, that you don’t have direct access to, and you are going through all these steps to ensure that you
cannot cross tabulate and reveal the identity of any individuals within the data. Why isn’t there any
description of all these steps to assure that no one is identified, in the paper application? Ms. Hughes
stated that by the time the data gets into her hands, most of those steps have been taken. Dr. Harrington
replied that as a reviewer that is the biggest question that he had; how are you going to protect the
identities of these juvenile sex offenders who may or may not be serious offenders? Will this
information come back and haunt them later in life? He didn’t see, in this application, how you are going
to protect them against this privacy risk. Ms. Reichert stated that this could be written up, and represented to the chair. Dr. Harrington suggested making a tentative motion to approve contingent on Ms.
Hughes writing up what was presented, so that the approval is in motion.
Vote: Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to approve contingent on modifications submitted to the IRB
chair. Dr. Harrington made the motion. Ms. Szilak seconded the motion. The motion was approved by a
unanimous voice vote.
VII.

Old Business

Page 5 of 6

 There was no old business.
VIII.

New Business

Dr. Johnston thanked and welcomed all the new members.
IX.

Adjourn

Dr. Johnston asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Laudermilk moved to adjourn. Dr. Cooper seconded the
motion. The motion passed by a unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 3:08 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Simeon Kim
IRB Secretary/Associate General Counsel
ICJIA

Page 6 of 6

 