ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
November 17, 2016, at 1:00 p.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
Authority Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora (representing Attorney General Lisa
Madigan) called the meeting to order at 1:07 p.m. Authority Associate General Counsel
Lisa Castillo called the roll.
Authority members and designees present were:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Jennifer Greene for Budget Comm. Vice Chair /
Cook Co. State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Daynia Sanchez-Bass for Cook Co. Public
Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Illinois State Police Director Leo Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Members Present
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John
R. Baldwin
Richard Abrams for Cook County Circuit Court
Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office
Director Patrick Delfino
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie
Johnson
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards
Board Director Brent Fischer
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler

Present

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Present

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director
Michael J. Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Illinois Department of Public Health Director
Nirav Shah
Illinois Department of Children and Family
Services Director George H. Sheldon.
Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
Mary Ann Dyar, Adult Redeploy Illinois Program Director
Kevin Givens, Associate Director, Federal and State Grants Unit
Shai Hoffman, Program Supervisor, Federal and State Grants Unit
Randy Kurtz, Authority Deputy Director
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Mary Ratliff, Program Supervisor, Federal and State Grants Unit (via teleconference)
Ron Reichgelt, Program Supervisor, Federal and State Grants Unit
Greg Stevens, Program Supervisor, Federal and State Grants Unit
Other Authority staff members and guests.
1. Minutes of the September 16, 2016, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the minutes of the September 16, 2016, Budget
Committee Meeting. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
2. Discussion
A. Lead Agency Issues
Authority Executive Director John Maki called attention to a memo dated November 17,
2016, regarding the Authority’s lead entity policy. He led a discussion that addressed the
designation of lead agencies by the Authority, grant-making, and monitoring.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
November 17, 2016
Page 2

 B. Indirect Cost Policy
Authority Executive Director John Maki led a discussion regarding the Authority’s
indirect cost policy. Associate Director Kevin Givens described the indirect costs rate
structures; federally-approved rates and the de-minimis rates.
C. Grant Schedule/Timing Issues
Mr. Givens said that due to the number of RFPs expected in 2017, the Budget Committee
will be required to meet more frequently. Budget Committee meeting dates will be
scheduled soon for all of 2017. If scheduled meetings become unnecessary throughout
the year, they will be canceled.
Director Maki said that an effort would be made to distribute grants’ periods of
performance more evenly throughout the year so that staff is not tasked with having to
process new grants or close-outs all at the same time.
3. Bullying Prevention
Mr.Givens called attention to a memo dated November 17, 2016, regarding SFY17
Bullying Prevention funds. He said that at the August 18, 2016, Budget Committee
meeting, $62,700 was designated to Goodcity as fiscal agent for Prevent School Violence
Illinois (PSVI) to conduct a two-day bullying prevention training. Authority staff has
since determined that Goodcity is ineligible to receive state grant funds. PSVI selected
the Illinois Balanced and Restorative Justice Project as their replacement fiscal agent.
Authority Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman said that Goodcity did not have the proper
registration with the Secretary of State’s Office per Grant Accountability and
Transparency Act (GATA) rules when the grant was to be issued and an alternate fiscal
agent was sought.
This item was presented for informational purposes only. No Budget Committee action
was required for the item and none was taken.
4. Death Penalty Abolition Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated November 17, 2016, regarding the Death
Penalty Abolition Act. He said that staff recommends designating $476,767 in SFY17
Death Penalty Abolition Act funds to Thresholds to subcontract with Chicago Survivors
to provide crisis response and recovery services to family members of Chicago homicide
victims.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
November 17, 2016
Page 3

 Susan Johnson, representing Chicago Survivors, provided a detailed overview of the
work that Chicago Survivors performs.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended SFY17 Death Penalty Act
designation. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
5. National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated November 17, 2016, regarding the National
Forensic Sciences Improvement Act (NFSIA) FFY16 plan adjustment. He said that the
FFY16 NFSIA Plan was introduced at the August 18, 2016, Budget Committee meeting.
At that time, the FFY16 NFSIA award was expected to be $313,276 and the Budget
Committee approved designations based on that amount. The actual award was $335,823.
As a result, staff recommended adjusting upward the designations that were made at the
August 18, 2016, Budget Committee meeting as described in the table in the memo.
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the recommended NFSIA FFY16 plan
adjustments. Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote. Mr. Schmitz abstained.
6. Victim Assistance Discretionary Grant Training
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated November 17, 2016, regarding the FFY15
Victim Assistance Discretionary Grant Training (VADGT) plan introduction. He said
that the purpose of the VADGT is to provide each state and territory with funding to
support training and technical assistance for victim assistance providers and others who
work with crime victims. Staff recommended that Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence (ICADV), Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA), and the Illinois
Office of the Attorney General received a designations of $200,000 in FFY15 VADGT
funds to support training efforts for a two-year period beginning January 1, 2017.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VADGT designations
to ICADV and ICASA. Director Schmitz seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
Motion: Mr. Schmitz moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VADGT designation
to the Illinois Office of the Attorney General. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and the
motion passed by unanimous voice vote. Ms. Hora recused herself from this vote.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
November 17, 2016
Page 4

 7. Violence Against Women Act
Designation Reductions
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated November 17, 2016, regarding the proposed
adjustments to the FFY10, FFY13, FFY14, and FFY15 Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) plans and the FFY16 VAWA Plan Introduction. He described funds recently
returned to the Authority.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended VAWA FFY13 designation
reductions. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
Recommended Designations
Multi-Disciplinary Team Response Programs
Mr. Givens described the FFY16 VAWA plan and gave an overview of the MultiDisciplinary Team (MDT) Response Programs.
Motion: Director Schmitz moved to approve the recommended FFY13, FFY15, and
FFY16 VAWA MDT designations. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion
passed by unanimous voice vote. Ms. Greene recused herself from this vote.
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the recommended FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16
VAWA MDT designations. Director Schmitz seconded the motion and the motion passed
by unanimous voice vote.
Domestic Violence / Sexual Assault Services
Mr. Givens described the recommended FFY16 VAWA designations to the Illinois
Coalition Against Domestic Violence (ICADV) and the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual
Assault (ICASA) for domestic violence and sexual assault services, respectively, in the
amounts of $709,255.
Centralized Training for Chicago Area Domestic Violence Agencies
Mr. Givens described the recommended FFY10 VAWA designation of $21,194 to the
Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network (CMBWN) to support its centralized
training for Chicago-area domestic violence agencies program.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
November 17, 2016
Page 5

 Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY10 VAWA designation for
the CMBWN’s centralized training for Chicago-area domestic violence agencies program
and the FFY16 designations to ICADV and ICASA to support domestic violence and
sexual assault services, respectively. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded the motion and the
motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
8. Violence Against Women Act - Grants to Encourage Arrest and Enforcement of
Protection Orders Program
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated November 17, 2016, regarding the proposed
adjustments to the FFY14 Violence Against Women Act - Grants to Encourage Arrest
and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program (VAWA A) plan. He described $53,277
in FFY14 funds recently returned to the Authority. He said staff recommended a
$233,400 designation of FFY14 funds.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY14 VAWA A plan
adjustments. Director Schmitz seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote.
9. Violence Against Women Act – Sexual Assault Services Program
Authority Associate Director Kevin Givens called attention to a memo dated November
17, 2016, regarding the FFY16 Violence Against Women Act – Sexual Assault Services
Program (VAWA SASP) plan. He said that staff recommended that $507,055 in FFY16
VAWA SASP funds be designated to the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault
(ICASA) for subgranting to ICASA’s partner agencies through a request-for-proposals
process. He requested retroactive use of the funds to support programming beginning
August 1, 2016.
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the recommended FFY14 VAWA A plan
adjustments. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
10. Victims of Crime Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated November 17, 2016, regarding the proposed
adjustments to the FFY15 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) plan.
Designation Reduction
Mr. Givens described a staff recommendation to rescind a FFY15 designation of $80,084
from the Prospect Heights Police Department that was intended to continue its Law

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
November 17, 2016
Page 6

 Enforcement Prosecutor-Based Victim Assistance Services program. Staff recommends
this rescission because recipients of a new Request for Proposals for Law Enforcement
Prosecutor-Based Victim Assistance Services programs will receive funding by July 1,
2017 and it is not clear at this time that the Prospect Heights Police Department will be
among those recipients.
Recommended Designations
Mr. Givens described $316,642 in recommended designations of FFY15 funds to three
MDT programs.
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VOCA plan
adjustments. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to adjourn the meeting. Director Schmitz seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
2:52 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
November 17, 2016
Page 7

 