ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Regular Board Meeting
Friday, March 11, 2016 9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-505
Chicago, IL
AGENDA
I. Call to Order and Roll Call
II. Approval of the September 11, and December 16, 2015 Meeting minutes
III. Chairman’s Remarks
IV. Executive Director's Report
a. VOCA and VOWA Planning Framework
b. Targeted Violence Prevention Program
V. ICJIA Financial Report
VI. Committee Reports
a. Budget Committee
b. Strategic Opportunities Committee
VII. Research and Practice Presentation & Panel Discussion: Fairness, Voice, Transparency,
and Impartiality: How the Principles of Procedural Justice Can Strengthen Legitimacy in
the Criminal Justice System and Improve Public Safety Outcomes, Laura Kunard, Ph.D.
a. Panel Discussion with
• Reverend K. Edward Copeland, Senior Pastor, New Zion Baptist Church
• Justice Shelvin Louise Marie Hall, Appellate Judge of Illinois’ First
District, 6th Division
• Father Dave Kelly, Executive Director, Precious Blood Ministry of
Reconciliation
• Laura Kunard, PhD., Senior Research Scientist for Justice Programs,
CNA
• Chief Rick Tanksley, Oak Park Police Department
VIII. Public Comment
IX. Other Business
X. Adjourn
This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State and
Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should
contact by telephone or letter to John Klaer, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St. Suite 200, Chicago,
Illinois, 60606-5150 or at (312) 793-8946. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 MINUTES

DRAFT

REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, September 11, 2015 at 9:15 a.m.
300 West Adams Street, 2nd Floor Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois
I. Roll Call
Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the September 11, 2015
quarterly Board Meeting of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. She
called the meeting to order and asked General Counsel Lisa Stephens to call the roll.
In addition to Chair Robb, Authority Board Members in attendance were:
Clerk Dorothy Brown (after Roll Call)
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director Patrick Delfino
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Ms. Cindy Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
President Toni Preckwinkle (after Roll Call)
Director Leo Schmitz
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Ms. Paula Wolff
Because there was not a quorum at roll call, Chair Robb said matters that did not require
one would be addressed first, until a quorum was established. She then asked for a
moment of silence to remember all the lives that were lost on the date of the Board
meeting 14 years ago during the World Trade Center tragedy, including many members
of the public safety community.
Next, she welcomed new Board Members and had them introduce and give brief
background about themselves. Included were Sheriff Michael McCoy, who has been in
law enforcement since 1971 and Peoria County Sheriff, starting 2002; Ms. Pam
Paziotopoulus, who practices family law, consults with companies on domestic violence,
and teaches at Kent College of Law; Maureen Josh, Circuit Court Clerk of DeKalb
County, who had been on the Authority Board previously from 2000 to 2006; and Bryan
Kibler, who was elected Effingham County State’s Attorney in 2012. Chair Robb again
welcomed and thanked them on behalf of the Board.

1

 With a quorum still pending, Chair Robb moved on to other matters not requiring one,
starting with Public Comment.
II. Public Comment
Chair Robb explained that Public Comment was the opportunity for members of the
public who wish to speak, and reminded everyone that pursuant to rules adopted at the
last Authority Board Meeting, there is a three-minute limit and comments must be
germane to the listed agenda items. With no response to Chair Robb’s request for Public
Comment, she moved on to make her remarks.
III. Chair’s Remarks
Chair Robb said that she was trying to speak with each of the new Board Members
individually, and although that has not been accomplished, she still planned to do so. She
noted that since the last Authority Board Meeting, Board Members and staff, and
particularly Executive Director John Maki, have been working extremely hard under
difficult conditions with no state budget as yet, which has been very challenging.
She also reported that since the last Authority Board Meeting, two Committees have been
very active: the Budget Committee which has been a part of the Authority for many
years, chaired by Cynthia Hora; and the new Strategic Opportunities Committee, which
had its first meeting recently, chaired by Paula Wolff. She thanked both Chairs and said
she was eager to work with them in moving forward the goals of the Authority. She
added that on behalf of all Board Members she also wanted to thank the staff for their
energy and teamwork putting together a great deal of strategic planning with the
leadership of the Authority.
She went on to say that for future meetings, it is important for Board Members to provide
input for subject areas of interest related to criminal justice and information issues. She
stressed the importance of having an engaged Board as a significant resource given each
Member’s expertise and welcomed suggestions. At that point, Clerk Dorothy Brown
arrived, making- up a quorum. Chair Robb returned to the agenda, calling for a motion to
approve the minutes of the June 5, 2015 Regular Authority Meeting.
IV. Approval of the Minutes of June 5, 2015, Regular Authority Meeting
{After Ms. Cynthia Hora corrected Paula Wolff’s name from “Paul” in the listing of
attendees, Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes as amended, with Ms. Hora
seconding the motion. With no response to a call for discussion, the motion was adopted
by unanimous voice vote.}
President Toni Preckwinkle then arrived and Chair Robb moved on to the next item on
the agenda, Resolutions of Commendation, for a unified motion to adopt.

2

 V. Old Business – Resolutions of Commendation
She explained that the Resolutions honored former staff and past Board Members for
their invaluable assistance toward meeting the Authority’s mission to advance the Illinois
criminal justice system by improving the quality of criminal justice information, research
and grant programs. She further explained that the Resolutions were unable to be moved
and adopted at the last Board Meeting because of lack of a quorum and went on to
mention the recipients:
Former staff members:
Jack Cutrone, Authority Executive Director from October, 2009 until January, 2015, who
started previously as the agency’s General Counsel in January, 2006, and with whom she
said she had the opportunity to work when she was a judge and was very grateful for his
friendship and for the calm and quiet way that he led the Authority;
Mark Myrent, Authority Associate Director of Research and Analysis Unit, from March,
2007, until January, 2015, who held prior Authority positions as a Statistical Research
Specialist starting in 1985, and a Senior Research Analyst and Manager for the
Integrated Justice Information Systems Project;
Wendy McCambridge, Associate Director of the Federal and State Grants Unit since
2012 who left the Authority June 18th to become City Clerk of Aurora;
Past Authority Board Members:
Peter M. Ellis, former Authority Chairman from January, 2011 until December, 2014, a
practicing attorney in the Chicago office of Reed Smith LLP, whose experience includes
criminal defense representation;
Abishi Cunningham, former Cook County Public Defender, who served on the Authority
Board from April, 2009 until March, 2015;
Ramon Escapa, Schuyler County State’s Attorney, who served on the Authority Board
from July, 2014 until January, 2015;
William T. Fitzpatrick, Chief of the Glenview Police Department, who served on the
Authority Board from November 30, 2011 until January, 2015;
Salvador Godinez, former Director of the Illinois Department of Corrections, who served
on the Authority Board from May, 2011 until March, 2015.
Felix M. Gonzalez, an attorney in private practice serving on boards of other non-profit
organizations dealing with disadvantaged youth, who served on the Authority Board from
January, 2010 until January, 2015;
Hiram Grau, former Director of the Illinois State Police, who served on the Authority
Board from April, 2011 until January, 2015.
3

 John R. Harvey, a Program Development and Grant Consultant for Chestnut Health
Systems, a not-for-profit mental health and substance abuse treatment agency, who
served on the Authority Board from November, 2011 until January, 2015;
Dr. Lamar Hasbrouck, former Director of the Illinois Department of Public Health, who
served on the Authority Board, from April, 2012 until January, 2015.
Lisa S. Jacobs, Program Manager for the Models for Change Initiative, funded by the
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and managed by Loyola University
School of Law, who served on the Board from November, 2011 until January, 2015.
Patrick B. Perez, former Kane County Sheriff, who served on the Authority Board from
January, 2009 until his retirement as Sheriff in November, 2014;
Randall B. Rosenbaum, Chief Public Defender of Champaign County since 1998, who
served on the Authority Board from May, 2011 until January, 2015.
Angela R. Rudolph, former President of Think. Plan. Do. Consulting, a firm providing
services addressing communications and government relations, policy analysis and social
media strategy development, who served on the Authority Board from November, 20 11
until January, 2015.
Chair Robb next presented the Resolutions of Commendation for a unified motion to
adopt:
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED that the aforementioned former staff and past Board
Members are hereby commended and cited for their dedication and contributions toward
meeting the Authority’s goal of improving the administration of criminal justice in
Illinois.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the gratitude and best wishes of this Authority and
the people of the State of Illinois be conveyed to them through the presentation of
appropriate commemoration in honor of their dedicated service and achievement.
She then asked for a unified motion to adopt them.
{President Preckwinkle so moved, with Ms. Cindy Hora seconding the unified motion.
With no response to a call for discussion, the unified motion was adopted by unanimous
voice vote.}
VI. New Business – Revision: ICJIA’s Grant Making Principles
Chair Robb moved on to new business addressing the revision of the Authority’s Grant
Making Principles for approval. Executive Director Maki outlined the background of the
original Grant Making Principles, established and approved in 2011, noting that they deal
only with federal grant making. He said the ones currently being presented for adoption
include state grant making. He also covered the original review process which involved
before Board review and adoption, input from the Budget and Planning and Research
Committees.
4

 Continuing, he said that the Grant Making Principles now being presented for adoption
were reviewed by the Budget Committee along with the Strategic Opportunities
Committee. He stated that both entities agreed that with the addition of state grant
making, the current Grant Making Principles should be adopted. At that point, Chair
Robb asked Clerk Josh who was on the Board at the time the original Grant Making
Principles were adopted her opinion, with Clerk Josh agreeing with Executive Director
Maki. Chair Robb then asked for a motion to adopt the revised ICJIA Grant Making
Principles as presented.
{President Preckwinkle so moved, with Ms. Paula Wolff seconding the motion. With no
response to a call for discussion, the motion was adopted by unanimous voice vote.}
VII. Executive Director’s Report and Remarks
Chair Robb then moved on to the Executive Director’s Report and Remarks. Executive
Director Maki reported that the goal of his report was to give a high-level overview to
keep the Board apprised of the work in which the Authority has been engaged. He added
that if Board Members had feedback or would like other issues covered, he would like
to know so that those issues can be addressed at the next Board Meeting. He then said
that before giving his overview he would like to note that while there has been focus on
past practices and changes to make, he wanted to make clear that in no way he wanted to
diminish prior work of past Boards.
In that regard, he recognized Cindy Hora, a Member of the past and current Board, whom
he said has been a real stalwart, always reliable, particularly in reading the minutes,
evidenced by her amendment. He also recognized State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez, who
has served and continues to serve as Vice-Chair; and in her absence, her Designee
Jennifer Greene, who also is always there to assist. He added that it was in that spirit
that he looked forward to working with all Board Members.
Director Maki then reported that the most visible improvement was the Authority’s new
website. He said that Deputy Director Randy Kurtz was the project leader and the
Authority’s website is now an elegant streamlined presentation of the Authority’s work.
He continued to highlight some of the changes and thanked Deputy Director Kurtz as
well as thanking Anthony Jenkins, Associate Director of Information Technology and his
staff. He added that the improvements also came about through major interdisciplinary
work with all units providing information on the most concise, acceptable way to present
the work they do.
At that point, Deputy Director Kurtz said that in particular Cristin Evans, the Authority’s
Public Information Officer, and Chris Schweda, the Authority’s Webmaster, provided a
great deal of the website development, and reiterated that it was a considerable team
effort with many staff involved. Executive Director Maki then discussed the changes of
how the Authority’s research would be presented, making it more concise, accessible,

5

 and web friendly. He again asked that if anyone had feedback, to please let him know
and added that the Authority was very proud and excited about its new website.
Executive Director Maki moved on to report on another major activity of the Authority in
which he and Chair Robb have been involved, the Illinois Commission on Criminal
Justice and Sentencing Reform. He said they both chair Commission Committees, for
which they have arranged meetings, bringing in speakers and working with the
Committee Members to analyze use of prison crime data. He added that they also have
participated in Commission hearings.
In response to a question by President Preckwinkle as to preliminary findings before the
Commission’s report is released by the end of the year, Chair Robb noted that a
preliminary report was published in June. She said that it is available on the Authority’s
website, because the Authority is providing staff for the Commission. She added that all
the minutes of Commission and Commission Committee Meetings also are on the
website. In addition, she related that the involvement in the hearings by citizens and
communities affected by crime was very impressive and examples of how some
communities have addressed violence in the state of Illinois improving the situation was
hopeful.
Executive Director Maki added that Peoria was one of those communities and noted that
a presentation about its efforts would be made later in the meeting. He also said that he
felt positive about the nuance people are bringing to this issue, that it is not just about
reducing prison populations or controlling crime, but it is about doing both at the same
time. He remarked that there is a wealth of burgeoning effective practices around the
country and in the state that can be drawn upon, which he said gave him confidence.
He moved on mentioning the work of two of the Authority’s Committees: the Budget
Committee and the Strategic Opportunities Committee, noting that the Chairs of those
Committees would be giving updates shortly. He said that the activities of those
Committees have been very invigorating, toward the goal of not only providing
transparency but giving a sense of the reasons for actions taken, particularly with limited
and some cases, diminishing funding for programs to reduce crime and improve public
safety.
Executive Director Maki then reviewed two core units: Federal and State Grants, and
Research and Analysis. He said that the former had been without an Associate Director
for the past three or four months, with Deputy Director Randy Kurtz as acting head for
two of those months and himself serving as head the other period. He went on to say that
he anticipated naming a new Associate Director probably as early as the week after the
meeting. He then gave an overview of a request for proposals that closed the end of
August for the Service Training Officers Prosecutors (STOP) Program affiliated with the
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Program and that applications were currently
being reviewed. He also talked about some of the difficult state funding situations, but
added that the Authority’s federal funding was encouraging.

6

 In response to a question by President Preckwinkle as to the specific impact of the state
funding situation, he said it was very difficult. He added that the Authority is in contact
with the Governor’s Office and grantees trying to bring about solutions. State’s Attorney
Bryan Kibler then gave an example of the problems being experienced, citing the Adult
Redeploy Illinois Mental Health Court in Effingham County now having severely
restricted enrollments. President Preckwinkle then cautioned that after a conversation she
had with the Speaker regarding Cook County financial concerns, it appeared that a
resolution did not seem likely until next year.
Ms. Cynthia Hora then mentioned difficulties victim service programs that rely on state
funding are having, with a number of them laying off staff. In the discussion that
followed, Ms. Paula Wolff asked if the Board could be briefed on the impact of the
financial situation, given the Authority’s fiduciary responsibility for the state grants that
are administered. Executive Director Maki responded that for the next Budget
Committee Meeting there would be scenarios, which will be available to all Board
Members.
He next moved on to discuss and praise the work and direction of the Research and
Analysis Unit under the leadership of Associate Director Dr. Megan Alderden. He
pointed out that in line with the work of the Illinois Commission on Criminal Justice and
Sentencing Reform, there is a more concrete sense of how different counties are using
prison and are responding to crime, adding that it is a level of analysis that has been
missing from many state conversations in the last several years. Executive Director Maki
then noted a letter from the Bureau of Justice Statistics included in the materials thanking
the Authority for work that was done in partnership with the Illinois Department of
Corrections.
He explained that for almost 10 years the Department of Corrections was not able to
report basic vital statistics about its population because of a breakdown in its information
systems, which required a very expensive repair. He further explained that the Authority
received a grant to work with the Department of Corrections to fix the problem and for
the first time in nine years corrections data was able to be reported to the federal
government. Executive Director Maki said this outcome was significant for two reasons:
one, Illinois now is able to ascertain how the state compares nationally; and two, it is
important to the Authority’s federal partners that the Authority is seen as participating in
their information gathering, particularly for funding purposes.
In closing, Executive Director Maki described an evaluation that the Authority is doing
with the city of Peoria and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of their
focused deterrence program, known as “Don’t Shoot,” highlighting its success. He noted
that a presentation about that effort would be made as the last agenda item and also
announced a conference featuring it was going to be held November 4 and 5, in Peoria.
He explained that the conference will bring together representatives from law
enforcement, public safety and justice system communities throughout Illinois with
national and local experts presenting on innovative approaches for reducing serious

7

 crimes and high levels of gun violence. He added that the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation and the Joyce Foundation were providing financial support for the
conference and that Board Members were invited to attend. With no response to his call
for further discussion, he thanked everyone and turned the meeting over to Randy Kurtz,
ICJIA Deputy Director, for an ICJIA Financial Report.
VIII. ICJIA Financial Report
Deputy Director Kurtz began by stating that when he came to the Authority six months
ago, his goal was to deliver to the Board and other constituencies a schematic and
comprehensive yet concise view of the financial picture of the agency, which he said is
challenging because there are many different funding streams and different ways that
money is expended. He said that he would be discussing cash-on-cash expenditures for
fiscal year 2015, ending June 30, noting the amount of $57 million for that period. He
explained of that amount, $48 million went to grantees and about $8 million to operate
the Authority.
He further explained that 62 percent of the grant money expended was distributed from
the federal Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and
Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) funding sources. He noted that Authority operations are
funded through both state budget and federal administrative money, and detailed the
ratios. He then discussed expenditures with the bulk of the cost payroll and associated
employee benefits, and outlined Senate Bill 2042 and what it allows to be covered.
Next, he previewed a new funding streams and grant making layout project developed in
direct response to Board Member Patrick Delfino’s question about this information,
which he said would be unveiled at next week’s Strategic Opportunities Committee
Meeting. He went to say that a great deal of work has been devoted to its creation by
staff members Jude Lemrow, Ieva Massengill, and Dr. Megan Alderden.
He outlined the information that will be on a link and PDF sent in advance of the
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting and interactive on the Authority’s website.
He asked that after reviewing it, comments be made as to what is included and not
included, stating that as Deputy Director and Chief Financial Officer, financial
transparency is absolutely critical. In closing he said that it is very important that
participants in the criminal justice system can ascertain how their part is funded and that
this project will not only provide that data, but will be used to drive and fund criminal
justice system policy and improvements. With no further discussion, Chair Robb thanked
Deputy Director Kurtz and moved on to the next agenda item, Committee Reports.
IX. Committee Reports
Chair Robb said the Chairs of two active Authority Committees would give reports with
the first by Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora. Ms. Hora reviewed the August 6,
Budget Committee Meeting, noting that mostly it was spent providing a framework for
the following: how the Budget Committee will be making decisions in the future, the

8

 basis for those decisions and the kind of information that will be presented. She discussed
subjects covered including the new state law involving state grants, which will require
more use of Requests for Applications (RFAs) and Requests for Proposals (RFPs) and
more transparency with some recording requirements.
She said it was noted in discussion that the role of the Budget Committee has become
more of a grants review Committee examining the individual grants themselves as
opposed to a policymaking body in deciding whether or not the grants comply or conform
with the Authority’s grant making principles and priorities. She continued to say that
also discussed was moving away from that approach and becoming more focused on
whether the grants meet the Authority’s policy and strategic opportunities that will
emerge from the Strategic Opportunities Committee.
Ms. Hora went on to state that other areas covered included how staff make award
recommendations, how requests are reviewed and agreements drafted, along with grant
recovery efforts that staff make to recover lapsed or misspent funds. In addition, she
reported that also reviewed was the format for staff recommendations to assure that the
Budget Committee receives all the information needed to make decision in these areas.
In closing, Ms. Hora said that one item of business was conducted with the Budget
Committee approving $40,000 to support the conference mentioned earlier featuring
Peoria’s successful “Don’t Shoot” focused deterrence program. She said she was
looking forward to the next Budget Committee Meeting when other recommendations
based on staff input that was outlined would be considered.
Chair Robb thanked Ms. Hora and clarified that the Budget Committee meeting discussed
was more of an orientation, and that an orientation for all new Board members was being
developed. She said she found the Budget Committee orientation helpful and thought
that even long-term Board members benefitted from it, encouraging all Board Members,
old and new, to attend the new Board Members orientation when it is scheduled.
Executive Director Maki followed saying that it may be a webcast, but that it is important
for all new Board Members to understand the Authority financially and programmatically
and the presentation will be the most accessible and transparent toward that end.
Chair Robb then called on Ms. Paula Wolff for a report on the meeting of the Strategic
Opportunities Committee, which she chairs. Ms. Wolff started by thanking Chair Robb
and Executive Director Maki for the assignment afforded to the Strategic Opportunities
Committee and invited all Board Members to undertake the Committee’s charge to
achieve the goals of the Authority, facilitating the most effective criminal justice system
possible in Illinois. She reported that the meeting was very much like the Budget
Committee’s format discussing basics, focusing on the Authority’s three elements:
research, grant making, and information and data collection.
Ms. Wolff continued to say that minutes and other materials presented at the meeting
would be made available to everyone, allowing those who were unable to attend to be
kept apprised and urged all Board Members to make it a regular practice to attend future
Strategic Opportunities Committee meetings. She then covered what was addressed

9

 including the charge to the Committee, which was basically accepted; principles that
underlie the Committee’s work; grant making principles; and federal government
guidelines governing how federal grants are spent.
Ms. Wolff went on to note that also discussed was the additional money that is expected
from the federal Victims of Crimes Act (VOCA) program and how the Committee could
develop a framework to make the best use of those funds in terms of meeting the goals
of the Authority overall. In addition, she reported that there were discussions as to how
past decisions have been made about grants, what future decisions would be made and
how that would actually happen. She then announced that the Strategic Opportunities
Committee plans to meet monthly, with the next meeting September, 16, 9:30 a.m., and
invited everyone to attend.
In closing, Ms. Wolff stated that everything the Committee recommends will come to the
full Authority Board for review and approval and that the Committee plans to have
recommendations as to its charge before the end of the calendar year. She again said how
pleased she is with the Committee, with Chair Robb thanking Ms. Wolff. At that point,
Executive Director Maki encouraged all Board Members to attend all Budget Committee
and Strategic Opportunities Committee meetings, whether a Member or not, explaining
that when they attend they become a Member of the committee as a whole.
He then announced the next agenda item, presentations on crime control and deterrence
in Illinois, featuring the program in Peoria and its evaluation by the Authority mentioned
earlier. He said that the intention is to disseminate the results of the evaluation
throughout the state, which he felt represents the Authority at its best: listening to local
law enforcement and local stakeholders, trying to ascertain what they are doing and what
resources the Authority can provide to help them be the most effective. He then called on
Dr. Megan Alderden, Associate Director of the Authority’s Research and Analysis Unit
to give a brief framework for understanding how deterrence currently works in Illinois.
X. Presentations & Discussion
The State of Crime Control in Illinois: Dr. Megan Alderden, Associate Director, ICJIA
Research and Analysis Unit
Dr. Alderden started by covering how deterrence works in the criminal justice system and
currently in Illinois. She pointed out that there are some limits in terms of data, therefore
some she was using are national level but are similar regardless of the source. She
continued to say that using such information can actually identify how to frame or
improve responses to a crime problem and specifically use a more targeted strategy than
the blanket approach that is currently very typical in the criminal justice system.
She went on to explain that there are two types of deterrence practiced: general
deterrence, basically trying to prevent people from committing crimes; and specific
deterrence, aimed at someone who actually already has committed the crime, to help
change that behavior. She continued to explain the three mechanisms by which the

10

 deterrence methods are undertaken: certainty of punishment or some type of response;
swiftness or how quickly the response happens; and the severity or strength of the
punishment provided.
In the ensuing discussion, Dr. Alderden gave statistics for violent and property offenses
committed, those reported to police, arrests by police and arrests resulting in conviction.
Also discussed was the median number of days between arrest and sentencing, the Illinois
adult population under correctional supervision, and the average length of stay of felons
exiting the Illinois Department of Corrections by class. She also talked about how many
crimes go unreported, with even fewer resulting in arrest and conviction; the processing
of cases taking time; and increased punishment with more people in contact with the
system longer, with only modest public safety improvements.
Various comments were made in response to Dr. Alderden’s presentation, including
President Preckwinkle’s pointing out that the United States has five percent of the
world’s population and 25 percent of the people in the world who are in jail or prison.
Dr. Alderden and others then discussed the negative aspects of this situation, with Dr.
Alderden noting how focused deterrence can help correct it by increasing certainty and
swiftness of punishment; using the right amount of punishment; including community
input; increasing perceptions of legitimacy; and producing dramatic impact without
significant dollar increases.
Don’t Shoot: Focused Deterrence in Peoria: Tate Chambers, Assistant U.S. Attorney for
the Central District
At that point, Chair Robb thanked Dr. Alderden, with Executive Director John Maki
introducing Tate Chambers, Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Central District to describe
the “Don’t Shoot: Focused Deterrence Program” in Peoria. After thanking the Board for
the opportunity to discuss the program, Assistant U.S. Attorney Chambers gave
background on how it developed in Peoria.
He mentioned being called to work at the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington,
D.C., from his position in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Peoria in 2007 to learn the
Department’s antigun violence program. He said that a team was formed representing all
the shareholders from the Department, and all the federal agencies that had a role in gun
violence along with federal firearm prosecutors from around the country.
He continued to explain that the team talked to crime researchers, judges, prosecutors,
victims and community representatives nationwide and kept hearing about a successful
drop in violent crime with less people being put in prison in High Point, North Carolina
that was continuing in that direction for six to seven years. He said the team became
aware that the program was based on focused deterrence, developed by David Kennedy
the author of the book, “Don’t Shoot.”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Chambers noted that what was especially impressive to learn
about this program in High Point, was that through it, the community, especially

11

 distressed parts of the community, had bonded with law enforcement, developed trust in
each other, and were listening to each other. He then outlined how the program in Peoria
started in 2011 after an eight-year old boy was shot and killed in his bed by a drive-by
shooter.
He related steps that were taken to educate the community, starting with the Peoria Public
Library featuring David Kennedy’s “Don’t Shoot” book for its yearly reading event and
also promoting it for book clubs and discussions all over the city, including radio shows,
David Kennedy appearing at public forums, a public awareness program with billboards,
bus signs, T-shirts, websites and appearances by law enforcement and others before
community organizations and schools. He talked about other activities undertaken to
promote the program, including communicating with gang members.
He gave further details about additional facets of how the “Don’t Shoot” program started
and continues to work successfully in Peoria, including the Police Chief totally
reorganizing his department, disbanding his narcotics and street crime units and creating
a target offender unit designed to support “Don’t Shoot.” He reiterated that the “Don’t
Shoot” program is working in Peoria. In closing, U.S. Attorney Chambers thanked
everyone and recounted additional positive impact of the focused deterrence and David
Kennedy’s “Don’t Shoot” approach. He related how in North Carolina the program
helped bring together communities that had been racially apart for hundreds of years.
Executive Director Maki thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Chambers. In the discussion
that followed, subjects included how successful outcomes of the program are tracked,
with the biggest being that offenders who participate do not re-offend. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Chambers went on to say there are huge success stories about education and
bringing families back together, rather than continuing to take young men out of
communities with negative consequences. Also covered was the call-in aspect of the
focused deterrence program which requires those on probation or parole to participate
and helps them with areas such as social services and education opportunities and has
been found to be very beneficial.
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz then raised the issue of efforts to replicate successful initiatives
throughout the state such as the Peoria “Don’t Shoot” Program seem to be missing.
Executive Director Maki responded that the intention of the upcoming Conference on
focused deterrence and the success of the Peoria “Don’t Shoot” program was precisely to
bring attention to this deficiency and promote collaboration among stakeholders
statewide. Also, in response to comments about the need for funds to support such
programs, he said that subject would be addressed at the conference as well.
XI. Adjourn
Chair Robb then thanked everyone for attending the meeting and for their participation.
With several Board Members having left earlier, there was not a quorum at that point;
therefore, Chair Robb adjourned the meeting without a motion for adoption.

12

 MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Wednesday, December 16 2015 at 9:01 a.m.
300 West Adams Street, 2nd Floor Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois
I. Roll Call
Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the December 16, 2015
quarterly Board Meeting of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information authority. She
called the meeting to order and asked General Counsel Lisa Stephens to call the roll.
In addition to Chair Robb, Authority Board Members in attendance were:
State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Director John Baldwin (arrived after roll call)
Clerk Dorothy Brown (arrived after roll call)
Director Patrick Delfino
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Ms. Cindy Hora
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael Pelletier
Director Leo Schmitz (arrived after roll call)
Ms. Paul Wolff
Ms. Stephens stated that at the beginning of the meeting there was not a quorum.
II. Approval of Minutes of September 11, 2015 Board Meeting
Chair Robb noted that the September 11, 2015 Board meeting minutes are not ready to be
read and voted on, so this will be deferred to the next Board meeting.
III. Public Comment
Chair Robb then opened the meeting to public comment. In response, an attendee
identified herself as Queen Sister, saying that she represents “It Takes A Village
Organization”. She expressed frustration that the Authority has not responded to her

1

 proposal for $500,000 to support her agency’s Project Safe Neighborhoods project. It is
an “at-risk resident, child protection, community awareness, and public safety initiative”.
Chair Robb asked if there were any other members of the public wishing to speak and
heard none.
IV. Approval of the Authority’s Guiding Principles
Chair Robb then proceeded to the next item on the agenda by asking Mr. Maki and Ms.
Wolff to present the attached Guiding Principles. Mr. Maki explained that the Strategic
Opportunities Committee chaired by Paula Wolff revised the Authority’s Grant making
Principles and now has developed Guiding Principles included in the Board’s materials.
Mr. Maki explained the Guiding Principles help the Authority envision what the
Authority grants should achieve. Mr. Maki shared excitement regarding the Principles
stating that many State Administering Agencies (SAA), like ICJIA, typically do not put
these kinds of principles in front of their grant-making. He then asked the Strategic
Opportunities Committee (Committee) Chair, Ms. Paula Wolff, if she had anything else
to add. Ms. Wolff noted the document in member’s materials and explained that the
Committee members developed and discussed the Principles two or three times. The
intended outcome is that the members are in agreement about the fundamental values or
principles under which we operate.
In response to Chair Robb’s request for additional comments, Ms. Hora explained that
she understood these Principles to only apply to the JAG funds. She stated that if they are
to apply to all funds, such as VOCA and VAWA, then more language regarding victim’s
right should be added. Ms. Wolff stated that she is comfortable going back to the
Committee for additional input. Chair Robb agreed and added that since there is no
quorum no voting could occur today anyways. She asked the members to take another
look at the Guiding Principles before the next Strategic Opportunities Committee and the
revised document can be brought to the March board meeting.
V. Chairman’s Remarks
Chair Robb took this opportunity to reiterate her thanks to all the Board members for
their appearance today and for their work on the two committees, Budget Committee and
the Strategic Opportunities Committee. In addition, the new Board members attended an
orientation several weeks ago. Chair Robb also attended and found it to be extremely
helpful. Now there is a procedure in place with orientation materials available for all
Board members, new and long term members. Chair Robb also thanked Mr. Maki and
staff involved in the Governor’s Sentence and Reform Commission. After this, she
moved on to the next agenda item, turning the meeting over to Executive Director John
Maki.
VI. Executive Director’s Remarks
Mr. Maki began his remarks by thanking Chair Robb for her fine work. He then notified
the Board that Lisa Stephens, General Counsel, will be leaving state government to take

2

 on a new job as the Chief Operating Officer of a new program addressing gun violence in
Chicago. Mr. Maki conveyed his sincere appreciation for Ms. Stephens’ indispensable
assistance, stewardship of her office and her assistance in leading the agency. Ms.
Stephens’ thanked Mr. Maki.
Mr. Maki also updated the Board on the Reform Commission. There will be two reports.
The first one will come out on December 31, 2015. Mr. Maki explained that he, Dr.
Alderden and research staff have put many, many hours into this. He looks forward to
hearing feedback and believes it will produce good results.
Mr. Maki shared that in November the Authority, in partnership with the City of Peoria
and the US Attorney’s Office-Central District, hosted a conference for mid-level
jurisdictions with high level gun violence to learn about various strategies, both local and
national, that address violent crime. Several Board members attended and the feedback
was very positive.
In addition, Mr. Maki stated it there is still no state budget which has been very difficult.
Staff members have been in close contact with state grantees. These grantees have been
operating day-to-day. Mr. Maki explained how the Authority has been involved in
developing outcomes for the State public safety agencies. This process will move from an
input based approach to one that is outcome-oriented. Dr. Alderden has been working
with the public safety agencies to help their staff develop new outcomes. He also stated
that he was recently appointed to the Budgeting For Results Commission which will be
revising the current Budgeting For Results Metrics. Finally, Mr. Maki thanked the
panelists in attendance today.
Chairman Robb stated that with the arrival of Clerk Brown and Director Schmitz a
quorum has been established.
VII. Authority Financial Report
Mr. Kurtz provided summary level information regarding the Authority’s finances,
stating that additional financial information can be added but this is the information
chosen to share today. Mr. Kurtz summarized that to date this fiscal year the Authority
has made approximately $10 million in grants with total expenditures through the first
five months of the fiscal year at $14 million. These are federal grants as there is no state
budget authorizing expenditure of state funds. 90 % of the federal programs are the three
main federal programs: Victims Of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) and Justice Assistance Grants (JAG). Pursuant to VOCA, the Authority
received the FFY 15 Award totaling 77.6 million. Mr. Kurtz explained that this is a
substantially larger than prior three year awards. There is an ad hoc committee that will
meet early in the new year to begin the planning process for these funds.
Mr. Kurtz went on to explain other fiscal matters including that the agency’s payroll
remains fully funded and other state grants and expenses are unappropriated. While SB
2042 allows for the federal programs to continue and pay some expenses, every month

3

 that goes by without a state budget it becomes a little more challenging. Finally, Mr.
Kurtz referred to a series of detailed presentations regarding the Authority’s grants which
will be made available and have been very helpful to Board members.
VIII. Committee Reports
Chair Robb asked Mr. Hora if there were any Budget Committee updates. Ms. Hora
stated that the committee met twice in which grants were approved using the Justice
Assistance Grant, Violence Against Women Act STOP funds, National Forensic Science
Improvement Act funds, the Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act funds and well
as the Violence Against Women Act Services fund. Future Budget Committee meetings
will be scheduled in advance so members can reserve the date and time on their
calendars. These meetings can then be canceled if not needed.
Chair Robb then asked Ms. Wolff if there were any Strategic Opportunities Committee
(Committee) updates. Ms. Wolff summarized that the Committee has met twice and has
appreciated the input from the members that were able to attend. Ms. Wolff shared that
the staff provided great helpful information regarding funding sources, how and where
they are spent. She encouraged Board members to access the minutes and presentation
materials as she found them very helpful. Ms. Wolff went on to explain that, as was
mentioned discussed earlier in this meeting, the Committee developed three different
levels of principles: the procedural or Grant making principles passed at the last Board
meeting; the fundamental or Guiding Principles that will be revise and brought back to
the Board in March; and finally the Committee is currently developing goals for the
specific JAG priorities. Committee members have also shared various stakeholder groups
to obtain feedback regarding these goals.
Mr. Maki ended this portion of the meeting by reminding Board members that while they
were assigned to specific meetings to the purposes of quorum, all are welcome at all
committee meetings.
Mr. Maki welcomed Director Baldwin and invited him to introduce himself to the Board
as this is his first in person meeting. Director Baldwin shared that he is honored to be
here in Illinois. He recently retired from the Iowa Department of Corrections after 42
years where he began his career in the Iowa Forensic Psychiatric Hospital. He was the
Director of the Iowa Department of Corrections for 8 years and Acting Director for 3
years prior to that. Director Baldwin plans to address Illinois’ high recidivism rate and
other needed improvements. He ended his introduction by stating how impressed he has
been with the Illinois DOC staff and how helpful many of the other key state agency staff
have been. Chair Robb thanked Director Baldwin and directed the meeting to the next
agenda item.
IX. Presentation and Panel Discussion

4

 Mr. Maki explained that, in addition to business items, he hopes to present a high-level
issue for discussion at every Board meeting. He plans to bring research and experts to
discuss important topics with the Board that will inform the agency’s research, grant
making and policy work. He then turned the agenda item over to Dr. Alderden and her
staff.
Dr. Alderden informed the members that her staff, Jennifer Hiselman will provide
victimization data and then she will ask the panelists questions with the goal of having a
rich discussion so Board members should feel comfortable asking questions as well.
Then Ms. Hiselman presented victimization prevalence, both lifetime and last year
nationally and within Illinois. She also presented the current research and best practices
on the impact of victimization. In response to a question from the public, Ms. Hiselman
stated that yes the slides will be made available.
Dr. Alderden then asked the panelists to share their thoughts on the presentation. The five
panelists thanked everyone for the opportunity to speak today. The speakers addressed a
number of issues. In summary, the speakers identified the need for community and victim
input; challenges victims face when accessing services; the need to increased services
across the state and the impact of violence on brain development and behavior. Dr.
Alderden asked the panelists for their ideas regarding needed improvements in the
response for victims. The panelists touched on the need for cross system collaboration
and multi-disciplinary teams; the importance of understanding and addressing criminal
justice system staff biases and how systems should adapt to how victims respond to the
victimization immediately after and over the life span. Mr. Maki engaged Board
members and the panelists in a few questions and then thanked the panelists and
community members for their attendance today.
X. Adjourn
Chair Robb asked if there was any old business. Hearing none, Chair Robb wished
everyone a happy holiday season. Clerk Josh made a motion to adjourn the meeting. The
meeting was adjourned at 11:34 am.

5

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

To: Board Members of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
From: Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair, and John Maki, Executive Director, Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority
Date: February 29, 2016
Subject: Overview of March 11th Board Meeting’s Research and Practice Presentation
This memo provides a brief overview of the Research and Practice Presentation for the Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority’s (“Authority”) March 2016 Board meeting: “Fairness, Voice,
Transparency, and Impartiality: How the Principles of Procedural Justice Can Strengthen Legitimacy in
the Criminal Justice System and Improve Public Safety Outcomes.”

Please note time and change of location. The meeting will be held Friday, March 11th from 9-11:30
a.m. at the Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-505). To enter the Bilandic Building,
visitors must present a valid State I.D. and pass through a metal detector. All Authority board
meetings are subject to the Open Meetings Act. Members of the general public are encouraged to
attend.

About the Authority’s Board and the Purpose of its Quarterly Meetings
The Authority’s statutorily created oversight Board serves a unique and vital role in improving the State’s
public safety outcomes. Composed of state and local public safety officials, policy experts, and
community leaders, the Board is designed to embody and represent the State’s criminal justice system and
tasked with setting agency priorities, tracking the progress of ongoing programs, and overseeing the
agency’s grantmaking. To that end, the Authority’s quarterly Board meetings bring research and practical
insights to bear on important and emerging issues affecting public safety in Illinois with the goal of
discuss identifying how the agency should address them through its research and grantmaking.
Overview of March 11th Board Research and Practice Presentation: “Fairness, Voice,
Transparency, and Impartiality: How the Principles of Procedural Justice Can Strengthen
Legitimacy in the Criminal Justice System and Improve Public Safety Outcomes.”
After members discuss essential agency business, including a new program that the Authority has
established in partnership with the Illinois Emergency Management Agency to develop community-based
interventions to targeted violence, the Board will turn to a Research and Practice Presentation on
“Fairness, Voice, Transparency, and Impartiality: How the Principles of Procedural Justice Can
Strengthen Legitimacy in the Criminal Justice System and Improve Public Safety Outcomes.” A national
expert on procedural justice, and author of Procedural Justice for Law Enforcement: An Overview, Dr.
Laura Kunard, will frame the presentation, providing an overview of research on legal cynicism and
procedural justice. Following this presentation, Dr. Alderden will moderate a panel discussion of justice

 system practitioners and advocates. The panel will include Reverend K. Edward Copeland (Senior Pastor
of New Zion Baptist Church in Rockford, Illinois), Justice Shelvin Louise Marie Hall (Appellate Judge of
Illinois’ First District, 6th Division), Father David Kelly (Executive Director of Precious Blood
Ministries, a restorative justice site in Chicago’s Back of the Yards neighborhood), Dr. Kunard, and Chief
Rick Tanksley (Chief of Oak Park’s Police Department and Authority Board Member). Please see
attachment 1 for panelists’ biographies.
After the panel, the Authority will welcome public comment. The Board asks that public comment be
respectful, limited to three minutes, and be germane to the agenda.

Summary of Recent Board Meeting Research and Practice Presentations
At the September 2015 Board meeting, Authority’s Research Director, Dr. Megan Alderden, presented
data on the state of deterrence in Illinois. Dr. Alderden showed that current criminal justice system
practice limits the amount of deterrence achieved. Deterrence comes from the system’s ability to impart
penalties for criminal behavior in a swift and certain manner. However, many crimes go unreported and
only a small proportion of crimes reported result in arrest and prosecution, limiting certainty of
punishment. Moreover, the time between when crime happens and when sanctions occur are often
lengthy, severing the tie between the criminal act and the punishment (swiftness), and overreliance on
increasing penalties and aggressive enforcement has resulted in more people coming into contact with the
criminal justice system with only modest public safety benefits. The implications of these findings for
Illinois communities and the criminal justice system are vast, as research has shown that an overreliance
on law enforcement can weaken people’s perception of the criminal justice system’s legitimacy and
undermine community-level informal social controls, key factors for promoting law-abiding behaviors.

After Dr. Alderden’s presentation, the Board heard from Tate Chambers, an Assistant U.S. Attorney from
the U.S. Attorney’s Office from Central District of Illinois about an example of how local communities
are crafting policies and practices to address the findings on the state of deterrence. Mr. Chambers
discussed how his office has partnered with local leaders in Peoria to concentrate services, law
enforcement, and community outreach efforts on the city’s most serious offenders through a national
violence reduction program called focused deterrence. This Research and Practice Presentation informed
a conference the Authority convened in Peoria in November 2015, which brought midsized Illinois
counties to learn about focused deterrence and other national strategies to address high levels of violent
crime in their communities. The Authority will release a competitive RFP based on the conference in
March 2016 for counties that want to implement these strategies.

At the December 2015 Board meeting, Authority’s researcher, Jennifer Hiselman, presented an analysis
of what data and research tell us about victimization in both a state and national context. Ms. Hiselman
showed that although victimization has been decreasing for the past 20 years, that trend may be slowing
and its consequences remain widespread, grave and costly. Victimization trauma not only increases an
individual’s risk for future victimization and offending, but also causes serious symptoms that directly
conflict with the justice system’s adversarial process. While much progress has been made with the
establishment of victim service programs serving over 100,000 Illinoisans each year, and the
identification of risk and protective factors; more work is needed to better understand longer term
2

 program effectiveness, which victims are not receiving services and why, and how to best target
resources. Following the research presentation, Dr. Alderden moderated a panel discussion of victim
service providers from across the state and asked them to react to the research findings and to explore
how the Authority can use research and grantmaking to improve outcomes for victims. This research and
practice presentation will help inform the agency’s upcoming strategic planning for Illinois’ Victims of
Crime Act (VOCA) and Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) block grants.

3

 PANELISTS BIOGRAPHIES

Reverend K. Edward Copeland is the senior pastor of New Zion Baptist Church in Rockford, Illinois,
and a Council member of The Gospel Coalition. He is also an independent consultant for the Bureau of
Justice and Michigan State University's College of Criminal Justice and a member of the working group
for the U.S. Department of Justice National Initiative for Building Community Trust and Justice. He
attended the University of Illinois (BA), Golden Gate Baptist Theological Seminary (MDiv), and
University of California, Berkeley (JD) and is also a former criminal defense attorney.
Justice Shelvin Louise Marie Hall is the Appellate Judge of Illinois’ First District, 6th Division. She is a
graduate of Hampton University, Hampton, VA, and Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA. She
then went into private practice for six years in Houston, TX. In 1980, she went to Washington, DC, as
Legislative Director to the late U.S. Congressman Mickey Leland. In 1982, she became a senior attorney
with the Illinois Department of Human Rights and subsequently became General Counsel on 1984. On
Jan. 11, 1991, she was appointed as a Circuit Court Judge of Cook County, and was elected in November
1992. She served in the Domestic Relations and Law Divisions of the Circuit Court. She also serves on
the Education and Executive Committees of the Supreme Court's Illinois Judicial Conference. On Feb. 2,
1999, she was assigned as an Appellate Court Judge and elected Appellate Court Judge in 2000. Judge
Hall is chairperson of the Judicial Council of the National Bar Association, a national organization for
this country's 1,500 African-American judges and former chair of the Illinois Judicial Council.
Father David Kelly is Catholic priest of the Missionaries of the Precious Blood. He is the Executive
Director of the Precious Blood Ministry of Reconciliation (PBMR), a restorative justice
project/community in the Back-of-the-Yards/Englewood communities. PBMR strives to be a resource to
other groups and communities who seek healing and reconciliation. He has worked for Kolbe House at
Assumption, a parish-based jail ministry of the Archdiocese of Chicago, since 1985. For more than
thirty-five years he has worked as a chaplain in Cook County Jail and Cook County Juvenile Temporary
Detention Center. During that time he has, also, worked in inner-city parishes. Farther Kelly received his
B.S. in Bio-Chemistry from St. Joseph’s College. He went on to receive a Masters of Divinity and
Masters of Arts in Cross Cultural Studies. He also holds a Doctor of Ministry (D.Min) with a Crosscultural concentration from Catholic Theological Union in Chicago. His doctoral thesis is entitled:
“Responding to Violence among Urban Youth: a Restorative Approach.” He has been trained and
certified as a mediator from DePaul University and has received training in the restorative practice of
Peacemaking Circles. He has published articles and spoken on reconciliation, restorative justice and
jail/detention ministry.
Dr. Laura L. Kunard serves as Senior Research Scientist for Justice Programs in CNA’s Safety and
Security Division where she works on a variety of U.S. Department of Justice initiatives, including police
reform, police technology and violence reduction. She also works on reentry issues and is currently at
work on a project to explore employment opportunities for people with criminal records. Prior to her
position at CNA, Dr. Kunard served as Director of the Center for Public Safety and Justice (CPSJ),
situated within the Institute of Government and Public Affairs at the University of Illinois, which
specializes in training and technical assistance for law enforcement as well as projects related to public
safety, including homeland security and emergency management. Dr. Kunard was the founding Director
of the Institute for Public Safety and Social Justice at Adler University in Chicago where she focused on
police interactions with people with mental illness and explored restorative justice practices. Dr. Kunard
is an experienced researcher, project manager, professor and police trainer. Dr. Kunard earned her B.A. in
4

 Sociology and Psychology from Northwestern University, and her M.A. and Ph.D. in Criminology from
the University of Illinois at Chicago. She currently serves as a gubernatorial appointee to the Illinois
Department of Corrections Adult Advisory Board.
Rick Tanksley is Oak Park Police Chief. Mr. Tanksley has served the people of Oak Park since 1984,
beginning his career as a patrol officer. He rose through the ranks and became chief in 2001. He oversees
116 sworn officers and 44 support staff. His policies have led to a more transparent, professional, and
respectful police department in Oak Park. Mr. Tanksley is active on a number of professional and civic
boards that include the FBI’s Regional Forensic Computer Laboratory, the Rotary Club of Oak Park and
River Forest, and Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, Illinois. He is past president of the West Suburban Chiefs
of Police. Mr. Tanksley has a bachelor’s degree from Concordia University, a master’s degree in social
work from the University of Illinois-Chicago, and a master’s degree in management and organizational
behavior from Benedictine University. In 2015, Governor Bruce Rauner Appointed Mr. Tanksley to the
Board of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.

5

 Legal Cynicism, Legitimacy,
and Procedural Justice
Prepared for ICJIA Board Meeting
Laura L. Kunard, Ph.D.
March 11, 2016

 Defining terms
• Legal cynicism refers to a cultural orientation in which
the law and the agents of its enforcement are viewed as
illegitimate, unresponsive, and ill equipped to ensure
public safety.
• Legitimacy is generally defined as being valid or proper,
either as set forth in the law or in the eyes of cognizant
citizens, or both. But legitimacy also connotes the value
of social institutions and political processes.

2

 Defining terms
• Procedural Justice is concerned with making and
implementing decisions according to fair processes.
People feel affirmed if the procedures that are adopted
treat them with respect and dignity, making it easier to
accept even outcomes they do not like.

3

 What does research tell us?

Weight of Factors

Why People Obey the Law (Tyler, 1990)
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
Morality Legitimacy Deterrence

4

 What does research tell us?
• Most research suggests that political trust is composed
primarily of evaluations of public officials, political
institutions, and satisfaction with public policies.
• We are currently experiencing a crisis of political trust
and government legitimacy; trust is the lowest it has
been in 50 years.
• Trust varies by age, race and ethnicity.

5

 What does research tell us?

 

Trust in Government

96 who trust the government in Washington to do what's right, all or most of the time

?Greatest ?Silent ??Beomer ?Gen Millenial
199? 1999 2004 2007 2010 2011

Seuree: Pew Research  Center for the People 8: the Press

CNA

What does research tell uswhen the gum! in H??shingmn always or must af?ne Iime

 

19813 1 EDI 
?White ?Black ?Hi5panic

Source: Pew Research Center U.S. Politics and Policy

What does research tell us?

Trust in State G?vernment, by State

I lib-ma Harman tl'IJBt
I Average that

Helm-rammed
I mm

   



CNA

What does research tell us about criminal justice?
• The process of criminal justice interactions shapes
opinions far more than the outcomes of those
interactions (Tyler, 1990).
• Time is a critical element in criminal justice interactions –
time for voices to be heard and time to feel valued
(Mezzerole, Antrobus, Bennett & Tyler, 2012).

• As the most visible aspect of the American criminal
justice system, the police are far more influential in
shaping the views of criminal law than are the courts or
other domains of the criminal justice system (Fagan, 2012).

9

 What does research tell us?
• If criminal justice institutions are perceived to be
legitimate, then the public’s law-abiding behavior,
cooperation, and compliance levels increase (Tyler,
1990; Tyler and Fagan, 2008; Bottoms and Tankebe, 2012).

• Informal contacts with criminal justice system actors
help increase legitimacy of those institutions with the
public (NIJ, 2003).

10

 What does this mean in today’s context?
• National Discourse:
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–

Police use of force
Sentencing reform
Over incarceration
Wrongful convictions
People with mental illness in jails & prisons
Debtors’ prisons / overuse of fines & fees
Balancing privacy and security
Police interactions with people with mental illness
Police reform, police unions, and body worn cameras

11

 What does this mean in today’s context?
• Illinois Discourse:
– Illinois State Commission on Criminal Justice
& Sentencing Reform
– U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division
investigation of the Chicago Police Department
– Police training & police reform (SB 1304)

12

 Thank you!

 

Laura Kunard, 
Senior Research Scientist, CNA
kunardl@cna.org

CNA

13

ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

To:

Authority Board Members

From: John Maki, Executive Director
Date: March 8, 2016

Subject: Proposed VOCA and VAWA Strategic Planning Process (Revised)
Attachments: 2014-16 Victim Service Funding Plan

The purpose of this memo is to outline the strategic process the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority (Authority) plans to use to determine how it will administer both
the state’s Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) and STOP Violence Against Women Award (VAWA)
awards for calendar years 2017-2019.
Background

VOCA and VAWA are federal public safety formula block grants that all states and
territories receive on an annual basis from the U.S. Office of Justice Program’s Office for
Victims of Crime and Office on Violence Against Women, respectively.
VOCA funding must be used to support direct services to victims of crime, which are
designed to respond to victims’ emotional and physical needs while assisting them in
understanding and participating in the criminal justice system.

VAWA funding is required to promote a coordinated, multidisciplinary approach to
improving the criminal justice system's response to violent crimes against women and to
advance advocacy and services in cases involving violent crimes against women.

Each state and territory must allocate 25 percent of VAWA funding for law enforcement, 25
percent for prosecutors, 30 percent for victim services (of which at least 10 percent must
be distributed to culturally specific community-based organizations), 5 percent to state and
local courts, and 15 percent for discretionary distribution. VOCA has a minimum
requirement of 10 percent each for funding domestic violence, sexual assault, child abuse
and underserved victims (as defined by the state).
As the state administering agency for these programs, the Authority is charged with
distributing the funds in accordance with the following:
•

The U.S. Office of Justice Programs’ rules and regulations.

 •

•

•

State law, most importantly the 2014 Illinois Grants Accountability and
Transparency Act (GATA), which requires a rigorous use of competitive requests for
proposals (RFPs) to determine funding.

The Authority’s administrative rules, which allow the agency to administer funding
according to a needs-based analysis conducted by the agency or through
competitive RFPs issued by the agency.

A three-year strategic plan that the agency’s Board creates in coordination with
victim service experts, advocates and providers from across the state. Strategic
planning is a requirement of the Office on Violence Against Women for VAWA grant
eligibility.

Historically, the Authority has followed VAWA’s mandated planning process to guide how it
will administer both federal block grants. The current victim service plan runs through
calendar year 2016.
Proposed Process

In response to the country’s victim service and advocacy community’s argument for
increased funding for services, Congress raised the cap of VOCA’s fund in 2015, and as a
result, the Office of Justice Programs increased Illinois’ VOCA award 437 percent to $78
million dollars for federal fiscal year 2015 (FFY15). Per federal rule, the Authority must
administer these funds, including the $3.9 million reserved for the agency’s administrative
costs, within three federal fiscal years. It is uncertain whether Congress will continue to
award funding at this level in the future.

The increase in VOCA funding presents a critical opportunity for the Authority to work with
stakeholders across the state not only to strengthen services that are currently provided to
victims of crime, but also to identify and address unmet needs.
To ensure that Illinois maximizes this opportunity, Authority staff recommends a threepronged planning and funding process: technical assistance and Authority internal capacity
building, expansion of funding under the current plan, and strategic planning and
implementation.
I. Technical assistance and Authority internal capacity building.

To make certain Illinois is positioned to use data and research to help strengthen victim
services and address unmet needs, the Authority plans to draw upon its VOCA
administrative funds to issue a RFP for technical assistance later this month.

This RFP will seek competitive bids from research and policy institutions to conduct a
robust needs assessment documenting the types of victimization experienced statewide
and associated victim service responses. This assistance will increase the capacity of the

2

 Authority’s Research & Analysis Unit to inform the agency’s required Board-driven
strategic planning process. Authority staff anticipates that the agency will be able to
procure technical assistance by May or June.

Under this same prong, the Authority will make the following essential improvements to its
operations through the use of VOCA’s administrative funds:
1. Hire necessary support staff to administer the funds, including a victimologist (a
researcher who specializes in victimization and will lead the Authority’s VOCA and
VAWA research), legal support, grant monitors, and a grantee auditor.

2. Issue a RFP in March to rewrite InfoNet’s application code. InfoNet is a web-based
data collection system supported by the Authority that is used by over 100 victim
service providers statewide. InfoNet’s data has informed victim services strategic
planning for nearly two decades. The system’s utility and efficiency will improve
exponentially after its code is rewritten to incorporate technological advances made
since it was first implemented in 2001. The new code will increase utility for
existing users and improve data quality and accessibility. The Authority has worked
with the state’s chief information officer to design a RFP for InfoNet’s rewrite. The
rewrite is supported by a $250,000 award received from the federal Office for
Victims of Crime. The Authority estimates the total cost for this project will be
$450,000.

3. Issue a RFP for a new grant management system to enable the Authority to more
effectively monitor its grants, reduce redundancies, and improve the management of
more than $150 million in federal and state funding and more than 200 grantees.
The new web-based system will allow grantees to input program data that will be
used to analyze performance metrics and accelerate the Authority’s ability to
communicate internally and externally with grant stakeholders. The system will be
designed to integrate seamlessly with the state’s new Enterprise Resource Planning
system. These steps will ensure VOCA funds address the diversity of victims’ needs
across Illinois while ensuring effective grant management.

II. Expansion under Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee 2014-16 Plan.

As noted above, the Authority’s victim service funding strategy is determined by the Victim
Services Ad Hoc Committee 2014-2016 Plan (2014-2016 Plan). To prevent lapses in core
victim services supported by VOCA, the Authority recently approved funding renewals
under the 2014-2016 Plan of about $15.5 million in FFY15 VOCA funds. Programs funded
included services for child abuse, domestic, elder and sexual violence victims, and services
to victims of drunk driving and other violent crimes. Some of these grantees work with
special populations such as rural victims, incarcerated victims, or victims with disabilities.
In addition, many of these grantees work within the criminal justice system to support
victims as their cases progress.
3

 These grants have varied end dates ranging from summer 2016 to spring 2017. To ensure
there is no lapse in core victim services and to responsibly augment the capacity of
currently funded programs, Authority staff recommends the agency approve a 25-percent
increase to current grantee funding levels as identified in the 2014-16 Plan, from
approximately $15.5 to $19.4 million. Authority staff further recommends that up to $2
million of the FFY15 VOCA funds be made available for a RFP for transitional housing for
domestic and sexual violence victims. This figure is an increase from the amount allocated
to transitional housing in prior years. The 2014-16 Plan identified transitional housing as
an important victim service, but the Authority was unable to support the programming due
to prior VOCA funding levels. Transitional housing helps victims beyond the immediate
emergency housing phase. The impact of these services is great as the programming
strengthens families by preventing homelessness and by providing services that increase
victims’ preparedness for living independently and free from violence. After this allocation,
a balance of approximately $39 million would remain to fund programs identified through
the strategic planning process.
III. Strategic plan and implementation.

The Strategic Opportunities Committee (the Committee) is the Authority’s board planning
body, specifically charged with crafting the strategies for the agency’s federal block grants.
After the victimization needs assessment is completed, the Authority Board Chair will work
with the Committee to constitute the Ad Hoc Victim Services Committee to create a threeyear strategic plan for VAWA funds. Immediately following the VAWA planning, the group
will use the same collaborative process to create the Authority’s three-year plan for Illinois’
VOCA funds. The purpose of this proposed process is to bolster the Authority staff’s and
Board’s longstanding collaboration with the state’s victim service and advocacy community
by providing necessary data, research, and resources to strengthen, increase, and sustain
services. As is the case with any Authority committee, all board members will be invited to
take part in the strategic planning process, and all resulting funding designations will go to
the Authority’s Budget Committee for approval.
Conclusion

Throughout its more than 30-year history, the Authority has earned the reputation as one
of the leading state-based centers for victim services and best practices. With the
opportunity presented by an unprecedented increase in VOCA funding, the Authority is
committed to continuing this tradition, partnering with Illinois’ victim service and
advocacy community and using research-driven funding and strategic planning to improve
outcomes for victims, thereby strengthening the state’s criminal justice system.

4

 S.T.O.P. Violence Against Women
In Illinois
A Multi-Year Plan: FFY14-16

Bruce Rauner, Governor

John Maki, Executive Director

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. Introduction
A. Approval Date for S*T*O*P* VAWA Implementation Plan ....................................... .1
B. Time Period Covered ........................................................................................................ !
II. Description of Planning Process ............................................................................................. 2
A. Documentation of Participation ....................................................................................... .3
B. Coordination with Family Violence Prevention and Services Act and Public Health
Services ............................................................................................................................... .3
III. Needs and Context
A. State Population demographics and geographical lnformation .................................... 5
B. Distribution ofUnderserved Populations ........................................................................ 7
C. Illinois Criminal Justice Data ........................................................................................ 22
IV. Plan Priorities and Approaches
A. Identified Goals ............................................................................................................... .3 8
a. Domestic Violence-related Homicide ................................................................ 39
B. Priority Areas
a. Current Programs Supported with STOP VAWA Funds by Purpose Area.39
b. Current Distribution of STOP VAWA funds by Discipline .......................... .44
c. Documentation of Need, Intent and Result.. .................................................... .47
d. 20% SA Set a Side .............................................................................................. .47
C. Grant-making Strategy and Funding Cycle .................................................................. 50
a. Current Distribution of STOP VAWA funds by Region ................................ 52
D. Addressing the Needs of Underserved Victims
a. Culturally Specific Communities ....................................................................... 52
V. Conclusion ................................................................................................................................53
Appendix A: Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee Membership List ...................................... 55
Appendix B: Agendas from Ad Hoc Committee on Victim Services Meetings ................. 56
Appendix C: Documentation of Participation ......................................................... 58
Appendix D: Documentation of Need, Intent, and Result .......................................... .

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Bruce Rauner, Governor
John Maki, Executive Director

Honorable Elizabeth Robb, Chairman
Honorable Anita Alvarez, Vice-Chairman
State's Attorney of Cook County
John Baldwin, Director
Illinois Department of Corrections

Honorable Lisa Madigan
Office of the Illinois Attorney General
Michael D. McCoy, Sheriff
Peoria County
Pamela Paziotopoulos Senior Counsel
Dussias Skallas LLP

Honorable Dorothy Brown
Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook
County

Michael J. Pelletier, Director
Office of the State Appellate Defender

Amy Campanelli
Cook County Public Defender

Toni Preckwinkle, President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

Honorable Thomas J. Dart
Sheriff of Cook County

Leo Schmitz, Director
Illinois State Police

Patrick Delfino, Director
Office of the State's Attorneys' Appellate
Prosecutor

Dr. Nirav D. Shah, Director
Illinois Department of Public Health

John Escalente, Interim Superintendent
Chicago Police Department
Brent Fischer, Director
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and
Standards Board
Honorable Maureen Josh
Clerk of the Circuit Court of DeKalb
County
Honorable Bryan Kibler
State's Attorney of Effingham County

George Sheldon, Director
Illinois Department of Children & Family
Services
Rick Tanksley, Chief
Village of Oak Park Police Department
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Executive Director
The John Howard Association of Illinois
Paula Wolff, Director
Illinois Justice Project

 I. INTRODUCTION
The Violence Against Women Act (VA WA), authorized by Title IV of the Violent Crime
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 and subsequently reauthorized as the Violence
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of2005 and 2013, provides
financial assistance to states for developing and strengthening effective law enforcement and
prosecution strategies and victim services in cases involving violent crimes against women. To
be eligible, states must develop a plan in accordance with requirements set out in the Act. The
Act specifies that states must allocate at least 25 percent of the VA WA funds it receives to law
enforcement, 25 percent to prosecution, 30 percent to nonprofit, non-govermnental victim
services, and at least 5 percent to courts. The remaining 15 percent may be allocated at the state's
discretion within the parameters of the Act. Funds may not be used to replace dollars already
committed to a service or program.

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (Authority) is the state agency established to
promote community safety by providing public policy makers, criminal justice professionals, and
others with the information, tools, and technology needed to make effective decisions that
improve the quality of criminal justice in Illinois. The Authority is governed by a 25-member
board of state and local leaders in the criminal justice community, plus expe1ts from the private
sector. In addition, the Authority is supported by 67 full-time and 3 part-time professional staff.
Authorized under the Authority's power to "apply for, receive, establish priorities for, allocate,
disburse, and spend grant funds," the Authority is responsible for administering a variety of grant
funds, including 15 federal programs and 15 state programs. The combined budgets for these
programs exceeded $169 million in FFYl 3. As the state agency charged with administering the
Services*Training*Officers*Prosecutors (STOP) VA WA award in Illinois, the Authority is
responsible for developing the plan for distributing these federal funds.

The current STOP VAWA Implementation Plan will guide the use of the STOP VAWA awards
received by the State of Illinois for a three-year period, 2014 through 2016. The plan will be
introduced for approval by the Authority Board at its June 6, 2014 meeting. The plan is
organized in the format pursuant to the 2013 STOP VAWA reauthorization and explained in the
2014 application.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 1

 II. DESCRIPTION OF PLANNING PROCESS

On October 22 and 23, 2013, the Authority convened meetings to review past priorities and
define new ones for the use of STOP VAWA and Victim of Crime Act (VOCA) funds. The Ad
Hoc Victim Services Committee, comprised of criminal justice and victim services professionals
as well as members of the community (please see appendix A for full membership list), reviewed
crime and victimization trend data, information on current efforts, and data from funded
programs. Participants included the executive directors of the major statewide victim service
associations (including the coalitions against domestic violence and sexual assault) and
individual agencies representing underserved communities, such as Mujeres Latinas en Accion,
Arab American Family Services, and the Center on Halsted, a gay/lesbian/bi/transgender
organization. There are no recognized tribes in Illinois but discussions have begun as to how to
identify and include agencies representing Native Americans living in the state, especially the
metropolitan Chicago area.

The Committee considered:
•

The need for a unified understanding and response across the criminal justice/victim
service system.

•

The need to identify and refine data collection.

•

The need to increase services for linguistically and geographically isolated victim
populations.

•

The need for cross-training and interdisciplinary training.

•

The need to create partnerships to coordinate the effective use of resources.

•

The need to ensure a minimum provision of basic services to all victims of crime and
prioritize funding for direct services.

Based on the above information and mindful of the differences in purposes and allowable
activities between the two funds and in consideration of the information detailed in the following
sections of the plan, the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee developed priority program types
for the use of VAWA funds and funding priorities for the use ofVOCA funds. This plan will be
reviewed for approval by the Authority Board at its June 6, 2014, meeting.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 2

 In summary, the Ad Hoc Committee recommended that FFYl 4-16 VA WA funds are used
principally to continue to support programs that:
•

Increase victim services for linguistically and geographically isolated populations.

•

Support services that improve the justice system's response to underserved or special
needs groups.

•

Provide support to reduce barriers in criminal justice system for special populations.

•

Support specialized criminal justice victim services.

•

Fund multidisciplinary models and training.

•

Promote multidisciplinary approaches to sexual assault or domestic violence in other
communities that are not currently funded.

•

Increase community-based legal advocacy.

•

Identify, refine and share data and other information among justice system agencies.

The planning process for the Illinois STOP VAWA funds continues throughout the year in
meetings of the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee, the Authority Budget Committee, and
meetings with individual subgrantees as needed. The recommendation made by the Victim
Services Ad Hoc Committee, once approved by the Authority Board, will be utilized in future
funding recommendations made by staff to the Authority Budget Committee for all STOP
VAWA funds, The Budget Committee meets as needed throughout the year to discuss possible
funding recommendations and approve them, deny them, or request additional information from
staff for consideration.

A. Documentation of Participation
See Appendix (C)

B. Family Violence Prevention and Services Act and Public Health Services Act
Coordination
In the process of planning the October Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee meetings for the
development of the 2014-2016 S. T .O.P. VAWA Implementation Plan, material was requested
from the Illinois Department of Human Services (DHS) for the Family Violence Prevention and
Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page3

 Services Act program, and from the Illinois Department of Public Health (DPH) for Public
Health Services Act: Rape Prevention Education program. Both agencies were asked to
participate in the VSAHC meetings and present information. Since both agencies indicated that
they were working on plans for the related programs, the VSAHC meetings would occur first and
that the VAWA Implementation Plan would be used as references for the other plans.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page4

 III NEED AND CONTEXT
A. State Population demographics and geographical information

Illinois regions

Legend
Region
. . Northern outside Cook and collar counties
. . Collar counties
. . Cook County
. . Central counties

~ Southern counties

Regions represent the divisions of the U.S. District Courts of Illinois
Cook and Collar counties are subsets of the Northern U.S. District Court of Illinois region.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 5

 Regional classifications of counties

 

a;
Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan Page 6

Number and percent of general population constituted by minorities, 2012
Total
Black
Black
White
Hispanic
Population
2,933
63,557
Adams
67,197
43
4,785
Alexander
7,748
2,879
43
16,211
1,220
Bond
17,644
37
Boone
53,940
1,595
282
50,993
5,475
Brown
1,317
22
6,914
Bureau
34,323
389
71
33,480
4,969
5,014
19
1
Calhoun
14,663
208
14
15,011
Carroll
115
12,637
Cass
526
13,338
940
154,492
Champaign
203,276
27,702
662
33,675
Christian
34,638
14
135
15,989
Clark
16,209
4
13,528
118
10
Clay
13,766
1,544
36,127
Clinton
38,061
54
103
50,497
2,415
Coles
53,655
3,489,325
5,231,351
1,324,777 48,887
Cook
18,399
27
1,014
19,600
Crawford
10,840
Cumberland
10,968
75
11
104,704
7,705
344
93,421
DeKalb
16,130
De Witt
16,434
187
15
19,517
171
38
Douglas
19,853
49,711
3,198
769,870
DuPage
927,987
17,975
127
6
Edgar
18,191
6,595
52
1
Edwards
6,684
204
33,896
Effingham
34,353
18
1,067
26
20,824
Fayette
22,014
158
24
13,755
14,008
Ford
*American Indian & Alaska Native **Asian Pacific Islander
County/Region

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

White
Hispanic
118
118
499
10,053
305
2,645
40
441
2,184
9,597
480
180
162
963
1,033
1,184,419
342
72
10,088
328
1,249
119,752
189
64
553
312
321

*Al/AN
170
35
117
437
88
160
10
61
92
836
62
29
32
131
155
47,990
62
21
498
32
48
4,555
36
14
82
56
38

*Al/AN
Hispanic
4
4
30
362
75
80
0
21
66
372
13
1
3
52
54
38,043
18
1
343
7
16
3,222
9
5
49
17
8

**API
Hispanic
537
2
49
2
6
96
915
128
34
11
294
29
16
0
2
79
83
16
20,246 296
239
12
56
2
88
0
259
19
21
588
369,259 14,595
125
9
32
1
3,080
258
85
4
117
16
103,851 1,775
53
1
23
1
171
6
67
5
57
1
**API

Page 7

 Total
Black
White
Black
White
Population
Hispanic
Hispanic
462
Franklin
39,407
273
22
38,808
34,789
1,470
704
77
Fulton
36,651
Gallatin
5,430
53
1
5,355
76
13,364
120
Greene
160
2
13,576
4,104
48,769
Grundy
50,281
838
76
8,249
94
Hamilton
8,370
68
0
18,652
226
Hancock
18,891
112
5
4,167
Hardin
29
68
0
4,258
6,952
85
Henderson
7,043
46
2
1,136
48,598
2,459
78
Henry
50,155
392
28,599
1,716
Iroquois
29,240
18
48,017
2,002
9,262
288
Jackson
60,071
9,508
90
4
Jasper
9,614
44
34,624
698
Jefferson
3,647
129
38,720
22,361
227
Jersey
22,742
197
10
22,203
648
195
Jo Daviess
22,549
19
11,593
332
1,080
Johnson
12,760
31
461,083
152,039
522,487
34,027
4,134
Kane
522
92,877
9,625
Kankakee
113,040
18,274
7,774
527
105,463
17,817
Kendall
118,105
216
47,020
2,319
Knox
52,247
4,578
54,675
4,520
589,751
132,125
Lake
702,120
2,852
231
108,705
9,114
LaSalle
112,973
14,754
480
16,604
1,730
65
Lawrence
32,618
1,706
Lee
35,037
1,967
91
1,549
2,177
36,127
Livingston
38,647
77
27,133
2,512
785
Logan
30,013
87
29,794
706
32,537
1,936
85
McDonough
292,656
34,736
308,145
4,763
562
McHenry
*AINIAN= American Indian & Alaska Native **API = Asian Pacific Islander

County/Region

lllinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

*AI/AN
154
240
16
31
181
29
55
25
22
145
92
414
17
130
72
46
49
6,057
534
618
214
6,847
441
60
120
106
130
109
1,607

*AI/AN
Hispanic
40
148
0
6
116
17
15
1
0
77
39
152
3
40
16
20
25
5,200
293
428
114
5,412
192
23
54
38
61
40
1,061

**API
172
152
6
21
493
24
72
37
23
276
157
2,378
45
319
112
105
38
21,320
1,355
4,250
435
50,847
975
60
332
237
238
698
9,119

**API
Hispanic
5
16
0
0
43
1
2
0
0
13
13
58
0
7
1
4
9
1,470
85
180
26
1,722
42
12
25
11
13
21
317

Pages

 Total
Black
White
Black
White
Population
Hispanic
Hispanic
McLean
172,281
14,537
7,102
468
148,528
Macon
110,122
19,765
255
88,596
1,831
46,316
399
Macoupin
47,231
575
15
Madison
267,883
22,795
308
240,979
7,100
Marion
38,894
1,830
53
36,655
525
Marshall
12,327
12,133
79
6
316
Mason
14,327
101
2
14,120
126
15,234
1,004
14,108
324
Massac
25
10
12,473
140
Menard
12,722
167
Mercer
16,219
108
16,030
323
9
33,357
140
32,943
445
Monroe
13
Montgomery
29,620
1,049
28,379
456
10
Morgan
35,272
1,205
47
32,513
663
14,768
157
Moultrie
14,933
6
97
51,605
4,612
Ogle
52,848
699
77
187,254
36,165
708
143,373
6,569
Peoria
19,790
Perry
22,058
2,050
45
555
172
Piatt
16,504
131
8
16,257
15,885
169
Pike
16,308
333
3
3,926
64
304
Pope
4,272
9
2,051
3,890
69
5,998
31
Pulaski
5,798
262
Putnam
5,886
62
3
29,301
765
32,956
3,425
Randolph
65
15,835
213
Richland
16,176
139
6
15,207
970
127,792
16,011
Rock Island
147,457
St. Clair
268,858
84,192
796
178,852
8,173
23,476
Saline
24,946
1,198
34
300
401
168,813
3,339
Sangamon
199,271
25,867
Schuyler
7,457
261
7
7,159
116
*AINIAN= American Indian & Alaska Native **API = Asian Pacific Islander
County/Region

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

*Al/AN
585
302
162
1,007
153
35
48
65
35
19
71
60
125
33
177
862
95
33
36
30
26
8
82
36
951
1,149
111
584
14

*Al/AN
Hispanic
217
65
26
276
34
13
7
8
7
2
12
10
57
2
75
390
39
3
8
1
1
4
40
9
584
319
13
132
3

**API
8,631
1,459
178
3,102
256
80
58
57
47
62
203
132
197
35
367
6,854
123
83
54
12
31
18
148
166
3,507
4,665
161
4,007
23

**API
Hispanic
159
53
13
122
3
5
2
3
1
2
9
1
13
2
75
137
14
6
3
0
2
0
17
3
154
195
17
61
5

Page9

 County/Region
Scott
Shelby
Stark
Stephenson
Tazewell
Union
Vermilion
Wabash
Warren
Washington
Wayne
White
Whiteside
Will
Williamson
Winnebago
Woodford
Illinois

Total
Population
5,290
22,196
5,946
46,959
135,949
17,647
80,727
11,727
17,731
14,598
16,574
14,568
57,846
682,518
66,674
292,069
38,971
12,875,255

Black
39
108
56
5,000
2,038
267
11,451
145
482
162
108
113
1,262
82,170
3,098
39,613
351
1,967,176

Black
Hispanic
5
9
1
134
95
17
371
9
68
11
6
27
230
3,252
79
1,826
12
76,769

White
Hisuanic
5,230
42
21,968
190
5,845
59
41,438
1,254
132,171
2,603
17,156
807
68,258
3,109
11,455
127
16,938
1,460
14,345
208
16,352
189
14,352
121
55,929
6,183
561,098
103,275
62,590
1,273
242,765
30,324
38,270
576
10,140,667 1,936,715
White

*Al/AN
10
52
14
122
487
129
342
35
77
23
40
54
306
3,455
313
1,791
95
88,647

*Al/AN
Hisuanic
0
11
5
44
115
63
146
9
40
6
11
11
196
2,260
57
1,084
19
62,940

**API
Hisuanic
11
0
68
1
31
0
399
11
1,253
36
95
4
28
676
92
7
234
18
68
1
2
74
49
1
349
36
35,795
1,169
673
14
7,900
306
255
10
677,533 24,035
**API

Source: U.S. Census Bureau
*AIAN=American Indian or Alaska Native
**AP!= Asian/Pacific Islander

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 10

 Percent of population who are Hispanic, 2011

Ford
Mclean

DeWitt

Champaign Vermilion

Adams

Legend
Percent Hispanic

~ <1-2.49

~ 2.50-5.79

CJ 5.8 -10.0
. . 10.1-16.5
. . 16.5+

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

•

The majority of Hispanics in Illinois live in the northern, and, to a lesser extent, the central part of
the state.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 11

 Percent of population who are African American, 2011

Jo Daviess Stephenson

Carroll

Ogle

r-----jf--,,,_,_ __jDeKalb
VVhiteside

Lee

Knox
HenCferson Warren

Legend
Percent African American

c:=J 0.1 - 3.49
c:=J 3.5 - 9.69
. . 9.7-18.49
. . 18.5 - 35.4

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

•

The majority of African Americans live in the north-eastern and south-western parts of Illinois.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 12

 Number and percent of general population by age, 2012
County
Adams
Alexander
Bond
Boone
Brown
Bureau
Calhoun
Carroll
Cass
Champaiqn
Christian
Clark
Clay
Clinton
Coles
Cook
Crawford
Cumberland
DeKalb
De Witt
Douglas
DuPaqe
Edqar
Edwards
Effingham
Fayette
Ford
Franklin
Fulton
Gallatin
Greene
Grundy
Hamilton
Hancock
Hardin
Henderson
Henrv
Iroquois
Jackson

Total
Pop
67, 197
7,748
17,644

0-17

%

18-59

%

60+

%

15,268
1,738
3,554

22.7
22.4
20.1

35,659
4,122
10,205

53.1
53.2
57.8

16,270
1,888
3,885

24.2
24.4
22.0

53,940
6,914
34,323
5,014
15,011
13,338
203,276
34,638
16,209
13,766
38,061
53,655
5,231,351
19,600
10,968
104,704
16,434
19,853
927,987
18, 191
6,684
34,353
22,014
14,008
39,407
36,651
5,430
13,576
50,281
8,370
18,891
4,258
7,043
50, 155
29,240
60,071

14,796
1,059
7,758
1,049
2,962
3,260
39,033
7,699
3,620
3,149
8,322
9,786
1,215,406
3,951
2,537
22,845
3,629
5,102
222,371
3,950
1,522
8,303
4,823
3,284
8,976
7,555
1,099
3,054
13,391
1,888
4,060
878
1,366
11,723
6,665
10,686

27.4
15.3
22.6
20.9
19.7
24.4
19.2
22.2
22.3
22.9
21.9
18.2
23.2
20.2
23.1
21.8
22.1
25.7
24.0
21.7
22.8
24.2
21.9
23.4
22.8
20.6
20.2
22.5
26.6
22.6
21.5
20.6
19.4
23.4
22.8
17.8

29,289
4,668
17,721
2,543
7,506
7,193
133,378
18,675
8,625
7,192
21,816
33,301
3,094,909
11,018
5,812
66,261
8,925
10,426
535,733
9,490
3,460
18,629
12,283
7,251
20,489
19,888
2,745
7,344
28,301
4,253
9,564
2,107
3,579
26,215
14,952
39,048

54.3
67.5
51.6
50.7
50.0
53.9
65.6
53.9
53.2
52.2
57.3
62.1
59.2
56.2
53.0
63.3
54.3
52.5
57.7
52.2
51.8
54.2
55.8
51.8
52.0
54.3
50.6
54.1
56.3
50.8
50.6
49.5
50.8
52.3
51.1
65.0

9,855
1, 187
8,844
1,422
4,543
2,885
30,865
8,264
3,964
3,425
7,923
10,568
921,036
4,631
2,619
15,598
3,880
4,325
169,883
4,751
1,702
7,421
4,908
3,473
9,942
9,208
1,586
3,178
8,589
2,229
5,267
1,273
2,098
12,217
7,623
10,337

18.3
17.2
25.8
28.4
30.3
21.6
15.2
23.9
24.5
24.9
20.8
19.7
17.6
23.6
23.9
14.9
23.6
21.8
18.3
26.1
25.5
21.6
22.3
24.8
25.2
25.1
29.2
23.4
17.1
26.6
27.9
29.9
29.8
24.4
26.1
17.2

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 13

 Number and percent of general population by age, 2012 (Cont.)

County
Jasper
Jefferson
Jersev
Jo Daviess
Johnson
Kane
Kankakee
Kendall
Knox
Lake
LaSalle
Lawrence
Lee
Livingston
Logan
McDonough
McHenrv
Mclean
Macon
Macoupin
Madison
Marion
Marshall
Mason
Massac
Menard
Mercer
Monroe
Montgomery
Mon:1an
Moultrie
Oale
Peoria
Perrv
Piatt
Pike
Pope
Pulaski

Total
Pop

0-17

%

18-59

%

60+

%

9,614
38,720
22,742
22,549
12,760
522,487
113,040
118,105
52,247
702,120
112,973
16,604
35,037
38,647
30,013
32,537
308, 145
172,281
110,122
47,231
267,883
38,894
12,327
14,327
15,234
12,722
16,219
33,357
29,620
35,272
14,933
52,848
187,254
22,058
16,504
16,308
4,272
5,998

2,175
8,526
4,974
4,554
2,392
147,455
27,963
35,912
10,526
184,869
25,508
3,180
7,262
8,536
5,851
5,293
80,488
38,001
24,796
10,483
59,873
8,943
2,626
3,078
3,473
2,908
3,618
7,933
6,129
7,310
3,684
12,478
44,807
4,464
3,759
3,656
795
1,381

22.6
22.0
21.9
20.2
18.7
28.2
24.7
30.4
20.1
26.3
22.6
19.2
20.7
22.1
19.5
16.3
26.1
22.1
22.5
22.2
22.4
23.0
21.3
21.5
22.8
22.9
22.3
23.8
20.7
20.7
24.7
23.6
23.9
20.2
22.8
22.4
18.6
23.0

5,102
21,065
12,568
10,971
7,106
292,717
62,747
67,667
28,222
400,488
61,469
9,858
19,603
21,517
17,462
20,703
177,020
107,416
59,308
25, 187
152,338
20,554
6,281
7,339
7,903
6,787
8,326
18,573
16,386
19,550
7,625
28,598
104,453
12,669
8,815
8,454
2,261
3,064

53.1
54.4
55.3
48.7
55.7
56.0
55.5
57.3
54.0
57.0
54.4
59.4
55.9
55.7
58.2
63.6
57.4
62.3
53.9
53.3
56.9
52.8
51.0
51.2
51.9
53.3
51.3
55.7
55.3
55.4
51.1
54.1
55.8
57.4
53.4
51.8
52.9
51.1

2,337
9,129
5,200
7,024
3,262
82,315
22,330
14,526
13,499
116,763
25,996
3,566
8,172
8,594
6,700
6,541
50,637
26,864
26,018
11,561
55,672
9,397
3,420
3,910
3,858
3,027
4,275
6,851
7,105
8,412
3,624
11,772
37,994
4,925
3,930
4,198
1,216
1,553

24.3
23.6
22.9
31.1
25.6
15.8
19.8
12.3
25.8
16.6
23.0
21.5
23.3
22.2
22.3
20.1
16.4
15.6
23.6
24.5
20.8
24.2
27.7
27.3
25.3
23.8
26.4
20.5
24.0
23.8
24.3
22.3
20.3
22.3
23.8
25.7
28.5
25.9

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 14

 Number and percent of general population by age, 2012 (Cont.)
Total Pop

0-17

%

18-59

%

60+

%

Putnam
Randolph
Richland
Rock Island
St. Clair
Saline
Sanaamon
Schuyler
Scott
Shelby

5,886
32,956
16, 176
147,457
268,858
24,946
199,271
7,457
5,290
22, 196

1,183
6,374
3,611
33,040
66,504
5,700
46,209
1,498
1, 196
4,854

3, 119
19,136
8,434
80, 122
152,350
12,937
111,273
4,057
2,798
11,401

5,946
46,959
135,949
17,647
80,727
11,727
17,731
14,598

1,285
10,414
31,538
3,737
19,525
2,535
3,876

53.0
58.1
52.1
54.3
56.7
51.9
55.8
54.4
52.9
51.4
48.4
51.5
54.4
53.1
52.7
53.2
54.5
54.7
51.3
50.8
52.4
57.1
54.8
54.9
53.2
57.5

1,584
7,446
4,131
34,295
50,004
6,309
41,789
1,902
1,296
5,941

Stark
Steohenson
Tazewell
Union
Vermilion

20.1
19.3
22.3
22.4
24.7
22.8
23.2
20.1
22.6
21.9
21.6
22.2
23.2
21.2
24.2
21.6
21.9
21.2
22.4
21.5
22.9
27.9
21.8
24.4
25.1
23.8

26.9
22.6
25.5
23.3
18.6
25.3
21.0
25.5
24.5
26.8
30.0
26.3
22.4
25.7
23.1
25.2
23.6
24.2
26.3
27.7
24.7
15.0
23.4
20.7
21.6
18.7

County

Wabash
Warren
Washinoton
Wayne
White
Whiteside
Will
Williamson
Winnebago
Woodford
Illinois

16,574
14,568
57,846
682,518

3,090
3,710
3, 131
13,248
190,312

66,674
292,069
38,971

14,568
71,364
9,787

12,875,255

3,064,065

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

2,880
24, 191
74,023
9,372
42,576
6,235
9,666
7,982
8,509
7,400
30,285
389,513
36,515
160,386
20,750

7,408,657

1,781
12,354
30,388
4,538
18,626
2,957
4,189
3,526
4,355
4,037
14,313
102,693
15,591
60,319
8,434

2,402,533

Page 15

 B. Distribution ofunderserved populations

Percent of persons in the general population with a disability, 2004
(Latest data available)

Legend
Percent of Population
with a Disability

c:::::=i

7% - 9%

-

11%

-

12% - 14%

10%

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

•

More people with disabilities lived in the southern counties (particularly southeastern Illinois) than
in other part of the state.

•

Higher percentages of people with disabilities lived in rural areas.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 16

 Percent of labor force who are unemployed, 2012

Legend
Percent of labor force
who are unemployed
c:::J 4.5-7.4
.

7.5-8.3

•

8.4-9.5

.

9.6-12.5

Source: Illinois Department of Employment Security and U.S. Census Bureau

•

The unemployment rate was higher in the southern counties of Illinois and, to a lesser degree, the
Northern counties outside Cook and Collar counties.

•

The counties where unemployment rates were higher are more likely to be rural counties with
fewer sources of employment.

•

Those needing services and are unemployed may find it difficult to pay for or get to the services
they need.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 17

 Percent of population living in poverty, 2012

Legend
Percent of population
who are living in poverty
L J 4.0-9.9

D

10.0-11 .9

-

12.0-13.9

-

14.0-15.9

-

16.0-28.5

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

•

The poverty rate was highest in the southern counties in Illinois.

•

The counties where the poverty rates were the highest were also rural.

•

Victims may not be able to afford services.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 18

 Percent of persons over 25 years old with no high school diploma, 2012

Legend
Percent of population 25 and over
who have no HS diploma

D

6.o-9.9

D

10.0-11.9

-

12.0-13.9

-

14.0-15.9

-

16.0-24.9

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

•

The southern counties were most likely to have higher rates of individuals ages 25 years old or
older who did not have at least a high school diploma (or equivalent). These same counties also
have higher concentrations of poverty and unemployment.

•

Those without education may find it more difficult than those with an education to take the steps
necessary to seek services when needed.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 19

 Number of linguistically isolated households, 2004*
(latest data available)

Legend
Number of linguistically
isolated households

LJ upto100
101 - 500
-

501 -1000

-

1,001- 14 ,000

-

14,001 - 81 ,286

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

•

The number of households where English was not the primary language spoken were concentrated
in Cook County, Collar counties, and the remaining northern counties.

•

There were also several counties in the southern region (particularly southwestern Illinois) where
there were higher concentrations of households where English was not the primary language.

•

Those who do not speak English may have difficulty accessing services

•

Cultural difference may also be barriers to victims seeking services.

*Linguistically isolated household: A household in which all members 14 years old and older speak a non-English language
and also have difficulty with English.
Illinois Viole nce Against Wome n Implem e nta tion Pla n

Page 2 0

 Percent of youth population age 0 -17, 2012

Legend

CJ 15.3% - 20.2%
. . 20.3% - 22.6%
. . 22.7%- 25.1%
. . 25.2% - 30.4%

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 21

 Percent of the population age 60 or older, 2012

Legend
Percent of population
age 60 or older
L_J 7-14
-

15-16

-

17-1 8

-

19-22

Source: U.S. Census Bureau

•

Counties with higher portions of people 60 and older are spread throughout the state, but several
are concentrated in the southern and western counties.

•

The southern part of Illinois is mostly rural, and it may be difficult for the older population to
access the services they need.

C. Illinois Criminal Justice Data

Illinois Violence Against Wom en Implementation Plan

Page 22

 Reported violent Index offense rates and services available, 2011

Legend
Rate of reported violent
offenses per 100,000

D
D
D

*

No reported violent offenses
1-99
100-160

-

161-300

-

301-1 ,480

Indicates agency providing ICJIA funded services. In addition to the programs indicated in the map, there
are two programs that provide services statewide, including one for female inmates and one for victims of
violent offenders.

Source: Illinois State Police and U.S. Census Bureau

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 23

 Total reported violent Index offenses in Illinois,
2011

36.5%

• Murder • Rape • Assault • Robbery
Source: Illinois State Police

By far, the most common offense reported was aggravated assault, followed by robbery, rape, and
homicide.

Rate of reported violent Index offenses by region, 2011
Region
Cook County
Illinois
Southern counties
Central counties
Collar counties
Northern outside Cook and Collar

Rate per 100,000

639
306

280
232
194
184

It should be noted that the Illinois State Police has changed the way they report crime. As a result, it is not
possible to do trend analyses. In 2011, Cook County had the highest rate of reported violent offenses,
twice that of the State as a whole. The other regions reported violent crime rates below the State rate.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implem entation Plan

Page 24

 Top 25 counties in 2011, for each Violent Index offense,
(rates per 100,000 population)

County

Murder
Rate

County

Peoria

31
14
14
11

Jersey

Cook

10

Jackson

Winnebago

9
9
9
7
6
6
6
6
5
5
5
5
5
5
4
4
4
4
3

Mercer
St. Clair
Mason

Macon
Cumberland
Clay
Richland
Piatt
Effingham
Bond
Edgar
Livingston
Marion
Franklin
Sangamon
Williamson
Saline
Madison
Vermilion
Kankakee
Montgomery

Rape
Rate

County

Winnebago

174
96
90
70
68
68
66
65
62
61
59
58
57
56
56
55
55
55
53
51

Kankakee

so

White

McDonough

49
47
46

Mason

Alexander
Vermilion
Mason

Lee
Pulaski
Massac
Champaign
Mercer
Morgan
Rock Island
Sangamon
Warren
Marion
Richland
Adams
Mclean
St. Clair

De Kalb
Logan

Assault
Rate

Alexander
Pulaski
St. Clair
Winnebago
Sangamon
Jefferson
Jackson
Champaign
Williamson
Montgomery
Vermilion
Peoria
Rock Island
Macon
Johnson
Henderson
Franklin
Ford
Cook
Edgar

Marion
Calhoun

1257
645
638
551
537
501
436
428
428
412
389
361
361
357
332
320
293
286
283
266
266
262
259
258

County
Cook
Winnebago
St. Cla ir
Peoria
Sangamon
Macon
Kankakee
Champaign
Jackson
Vermilion
Henderson
Rock Island
Jefferson
Alexander
Marion
Lake
Mclean
Kane
Madison
Stephenson
De Kalb
Knox
Jersey
Williamson

Robbery
Rate

3,083
2,112
1,695
1,649
1,428
1,183
1,161
1,031
994
994
695
535
517
498
483
479
475
456
432
420
382
359
305
300

*If a county is not in the list above, they were not within the top 25 in any violent Index offense
category

The following 5 counties ranked in the top 25 in all four violent Index offense categories (highlighted
above):
Northern region
Winnebago

Central region
Sangamon
Vermilion

Illinois Violence Agains t Women Implementation Plan

Southern region
Marion
St. Clair

Page 25

 Reported domestic violence offense rates and services available, 2010-11*

Legend
Rate per 100,000
in the general population

CJ No domestic offenses reported
CJ 1-537
. . 538 - 1,008
. . 1,009 - 1,875
. . 1.876-3 ,117

*Indicates an ICJIA funded domestic violence service provider. Source: Illinois State Police and U.S. Census Bureau
*1-UCR data was averaged fo r 20 10-20 11 due to data quality issues.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Pla n

Page 26

 Average number and rate (per 100,000 population) of domestic offenses
reported to law enforcement agencies in Illinois, by region, 2010-2011*
1600
c

0
:.;:::;

1400

72,554

Number of domestic offenses reported

rn

:::J

c.. 1200
0
c..

0
0
0
0
0

1000
800

~

.....

(])

c..

600

(])

_.

rn
.....

-rn:::J
c
c

400
200

<(

0
Cook

Collar

Northern

Central

Southern

Illinois

Source: Illinois State Police and U.S. Census Bureau
*1-UCR data was averaged for 2010-2011 due to data quality
issues.

•

On average, 938 domestic offenses each year were reported to law enforcement for every 100,000
residents in Illinois during 2010 and 2011 , the most recent years available. Regional and county
level data should be interpreted with caution because not all jurisdictions are represented in the
1
data.

•

Cook County had the highest annual rate of offenses reported statewide at 1,392 per 100,000
population. This is 49 percent higher than the statewide rate.

•

Although Cook County had the highest rate among Illinois' regions, the four highest counties are
in the Central region and had rates nearly or more than double the statewide rate. These counties
include Sangamon (3,117); Warren (2,208); Macon (1 ,875); and Champaign (1 ,786).

1

Although reporting of domestic offenses is mandated by the Illinois State Police, compliance has not been systematically tested and reasons
for non-compliance are not known. See table on the following page to see which law enforcement agencies are not included AND serve a
population of 20,000 or greater.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 27

 Law enforcement agencies serving populations of at least 20,000,
that did not submit domestic offenses to 1-UCR,
.
2010-2011
Agency

County

Region

Cook County Sheriffs Office
Evanston PD
Skokie PD
Hoffman Estates PD
Streamwood PD
Calumet City PD

Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook

Cook
Cook
Cook

Wilmette PD
Maywood PD
Dolton PD

Cook
Cook
Cook

Aurora PD
Naperville PD
Waukegan PD
McHenry County Sheriffs Office

Kane
DuPage
Lake
McHenry

Crystal Lake PD
Woodridge PD
Kankakee County Sheriffs Office
North Chicago PD
Algonquin PD
Round Lake Beach PD

McHenry
DuPage
Kankakee
Lake
McHenry
Lake

Batavia PD
Lisle PD
Roselle PD
Libertyville PD
Bensenville PD

Kane
DuPage
DuPage
Lake
DuPage

Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar
Collar

Population
Served
107,885
77,418
64,979
53,504
39,978
36,004
27, 169
24,448
23,335
176,737
139,655
89,346
68,729
42, 137
34,082
32,991
32,018
30,848
28,260
27,761
22,976
22,945
20,376
20,000

Rockford PD
DeKalb PD
Loves Park PD
Machesney Park PD

Winnebago
DeKalb
Winnebago
Winnebago

Northern
Northern
Northern
Northern

45,959
24,660
22,686

Bloomington PD
East Moline PD

Mclean
Rock Island

Central
Central

74,304
21,336

Belleville PD

St. Clair

Collinsville PD

Madison

Southern
Southern

40,747
25,656

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

156,180

Page 28

 Rate of orders of protection (OPs) issued in Illinois courts (per
100,000 population) by region, 2008-2012
700

-

600
500
400
300

200

-

-

-

-'T

-

-

....
~

--__...
-

T

-

-

--

--

--

--

-

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

100
0
- -cook
~ Northern

(excl. Cook & Collar)

~ Southern

collar
- -Central
-Illinois

Source: Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts (AOIC)

•

Between 2008 and 2012, over a quarter million orders of protection (OPs) were issued by Illinois
courts, averaging more than 53,000 each year. A notable increase occurred during this period in both
the volume and rate at which orders are being issued. The sheer number of OPs increased by more
than 16 percent (49 ,266 in 2008 to 57,403 in 2012), while the rate increased by just over 15 percent.
In 2008, 387 OPs were issued for every 100,000 residents; this number increased to 446 in 2012.

•

Although Cook County comprised the greatest number of OPs issued in 2012 (nearly 40 percent of the
statewide total), the rate of orders issued per population was higher in the Northern, Central and
Southern regions of the state. The Central region had the highest rate of OPs issued in 2012, at 629
orders issued per 100,000 population, followed by the Northern region at 529, the Southern at 512,
and Cook County's rate was 433 OPs issued for every 100,000 people.

•

Cook County was the only region where a decrease was seen in OPs issued during the period, albeit
only slightly. The number of OPs decreased by just under 2 percent while the rate decreased by 3
percent since 2008. Meanwhile, all other regions of the state experienced substantial increases, most
notably in the Northern region with a rate and volume increase of 43 percent over the last five years.
The Central region was not far behind with a 39 percent increase in rate and 25 percent increase in
volume. Rates of OPs issued in the Southern and Collar county regions increased during the five-year
period by 31 percent and 17 percent respectively.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 29

 Rate of clients served by domestic violence service providers in
Illinois (per 100,000 population) by region, 2008-2012
700
600

•

•

--

-

400

'
--

--

•
--

300

--

--

-

-

--

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

500

-

•

_.....

~

200
100
0
--- cook
....-Northern (excl. Cook & Collar)
_.... Southern

Collar
--- central
Illinois

Source: Domestic violence service providers via lnfoNet

•

Between 2008 and 2012, more than 200,000 individuals received services from a domestic violence
community service provider in Illinois. Because some clients are served over multiple years, providers
statewide served an average of 53,600 people each year during the period. In 2012, a total of 53,047
clients were served.

•

Although there has been a slight decrease in the number and rate of clients served statewide (4 percent
and 5 percent respectively), the number of clients served from the Central region increased 9 percent
since 2008. Likewise, the rate of clients served compared to the population of the region increased
from 53 7 clients served per 100,000 residents to 581 clients, an increase of 8 percent. The largest
decrease was found among clients from the Northern region of the state. Both the number and rate of
clients served decreased by more than 9 percent, from 502 per 100,000 residents in 2008 to 454 per
1,000 in 2012.

•

During the five-year period, about 15 percent of clients served by providers were child witnesses to
domestic violence. Although the number of adult clients served by domestic violence service
providers decreased only by 3.5 percent during the period, a 15 percent decrease was seen in the
number of children served. The number of children served by providers decreased from 9,287 in 2008
to 8,393 in 2012.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 30

 Reported criminal sexual assault offense rates and services available, 2011

Legend
Rate of reported sexual assaults

CJ No reported offenses
. . 1-17
. . 18-39

. . 40-1 74

*

Indicates a sexual assault service provider funded through ICJIA

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 31

 Rate (per 100,000 population) and number of Index criminal sexual assault offenses
reported to law enforcement agencies in Illinois, by region, 2011

45
40
c
0

Number of Index criminal
sexual assault offenses

988

35

+;:;

m
:::I
a.
0
a.

30
25

0
0
0
0
0

20

.......

.....
Q)
a.

15

Q)

m

10

0:::

5
0
Cook

Collar

Northern

Central

Southern

Illinois

Source: Illinois State Police and U.S. Census Bureau

•

Nearly 4,300 Index criminal sexual assault offenses were reported to Illinois law enforcement
agencies in 2011, yielding a rate of 33 victims per 100,000.

•

Although nearly half the Index criminal sexual assault offenses reported in 2011 were reported in
Cook County (46 percent of the statewide total), counties in the Central region had the highest rate
of offenses reported statewide at 44 per 100,000 population. This is more than 30 percent higher
than the statewide rate.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 32

 Rate of clients served by sexual assault service providers* in Illinois (per
100,000 population) by region, 2008-2012
180
160
140

.

.

-

--

120
100
80

....

...,
~

T

60
40
20

-

--

-- --.

-

-

&

--

-

I

-

--

-

""

T

--

-

2010

2011

-

-

0
2009

2008
-

cook
central

-

Collar

~Southern

2012

...-Northern
-Illinois

Source: Sexual assault service providers via lnfoNet
*Includes providers not funded by VOCA or VAWA

•

Between 2008 and 2012, more than 36,700 individuals received services from a sexual assault
community-based service provider in Illinois. Because some clients are served over multiple years,
providers statewide served an average of 10,460 people each year during the period. In 2012, a total of
10,499 clients were served.

•

Although the number and rate of clients served statewide has remained stable during the five- year
period, notable increases occurred in Cook and the Collar counties. In 2008, providers served just over
1,300 Cook County residents compared to about 2,100 in 20 12. Similarly, the rate of clients served
per 100,000 population increased from 26 to 40, nearly a 60 percent increase. About 1,400 residents
from collar counties were served in 2008 compared to nearly 1,900 in 20 12, increasing the rate from
47 to 60 clients served per 100,000 population by about 30 percent. It should be noted that some of
these increases may be explained by InfoNet data contributors reporting their clients' county of
residence more often than in prior years. In 2008, 25 percent of the clients' county ofresidence was
recorded as " unknown" in InfoNet, whereas that was true for only 15 percent in 2012. Even
considering the improved data completeness during the time period, these increases are worth noting.

•

Although the largest increases were seen among clients served from Cook and the Collar regions, the
highest rates of clients receiving sexual assault services occurred in the Northern and Central regions
of the state. In 2012, more than 143 clients from counties in the Northern region were served per
100,000 population - a rate 75 percent higher than the statewide rate. In the same year, 109 clients
from the Central counties were served per 100,000 population, which was 34 percent higher than the
statewide rate.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 33

 Rates of reported child sexual abuse (per 100,000 youth age 0-17)
and services available, 2012

Legend
Rate of reported child sex abuse

D

131-299

-

300-399

-

400-540

-

541 -869

*

Indicates an ICJ IA fu nded child abuse service provider (child advocacy center)

Source: Illinois Department of Children and Family Services, U.S. Census Bureau

Illinois Violence Against Wom en Implem entation Plan

Page 34

 Reported child sexual abuse rates (per 100,000 youth age 0-17),
by region, 2008-2012
500
.....

-

_....

&

~

400

&

-

-

300

-

-

-

200

•-

•-

•

•

-

-

-

•-

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

-

-

-

100
0
...... cook

-

....,_Northern (excl. Cook & Collar) ~ Southern

Collar
central

-Illinois

Source: Illinois Department of Family Services (DCFS) and U.S. Census Bureau

•

Over five years, 2008 to 2012, nearly 41 ,000 cases of child sexual abuse were reported to the Illinois
Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS), averaging 8, 154 reports each year. The rate of
reported child sexual abuse cases remained stable during this period, with a statewide average of 262
reports for every 100,000 children ages 0-17 in 2012.

•

Although Cook County comprised the greatest number of reported cases in 2012 (33 percent of the
statewide total), higher rates of reported child sexual abuse were seen in the Southern and Central
regions of the state. Both regions had rates more than 50 percent above the statewide rate in 2012 as
well as the entire 5-year period.

•

When child sexual abuse is reported to DCFS, the case is opened and investigated and later deemed
"indicated" if that investigation can confirm that abuse occurred. During the five-year period, 28
percent of reported cases were indicated by DCFS. Although some variation was seen at the county
level, regional variations were minimal ranging between 27 and 29 percent of reports that were later
indicated.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 35

 Rates of reported elder abuse cases (per 100,000 population age 60 or older)
and services available, SFY12

Legend
Rate of reported elder abuse

C:J 58-350
. . 351-550
. . 551-750
. . 751-1 ,744

*

Indicates an ICJIA fu nded elder abuse service provider

Source: Illinois Department on Aging and U.S. Census Bureau

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 36

 Rate of reported elder abuse cases (per population age 60 and older),
by region, SFY 2008 - SFY 2012
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200

....

~
~

--

-

--

-

-

--

•

•

~

.

.

--

--

•

•

--

-

--

•

100
0

2008
Cook
Central

2009

2010
Collar
-+-Southern

2011
2012
-.- Northern
-Illinois

Source: Illinois Department on Aging and U.S. Census Bureau

•

The statewide rate of elder abuse cases reported to the Illinois Department on Aging per 100,000
population aged 60 or older remained almost exactly the same during this five-year period,
decreasing only by four from 487 in state fiscal year (SFY) 2008 to 483 in SFY 2012. Yet the
volume ofreported cases increased from 10,597 in SFY 2008 to 11,614 in SFY 2012, nearly a 10
percent increase. The stable rate with substantial increase in number is explained by a growing
population of people age 60 and older. Since 2008, this population has increased by more than 10
percent in Illinois, comprising nearly 19 percent of the total population in 2012.

•

Although the Collar region had the lowest rate of reported elder abuse cases statewide, this region
experienced the greatest increase during the period. The rate in SFY 2008 was 250 reports per
100,000 people age 60 or older, increasing to 275 reports in SFY 2012, an increase of more than
10 percent. The Northern region also saw a smaller increase of about 5 percent during the last five
years, while the Central region saw the only notable decrease statewide. Rate of reported cases in
the Central region decreased from 607 to 565 reports per 100,000 population age 60 or older,
about a 7 percent decrease.

•

Although the greatest number of reported cases of elder abuse occurred in Cook County during
SFY 2012, comprising more than one-third of cases statewide, the rate of cases reported in Cook
County was actually about 7 percent lower than the statewide rate. Additionally, the Southern
region had the highest rate of elder abuse during the same year. In SFY 2012, more than 785 cases
of elder abuse were reported per 100,000 people age 60 or older. This is 62 percent higher than the
statewide rate of 483.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 37

 IV PLAN PRIORITIES AND APPROACHES

The following summary reflects the Mission Statement, Goals and Objectives, and Priorities forthe 2014
through 2016 funding period.

A. Identified Mission Statement and Goals
In order to promote greater system responsiveness and victim satisfaction, particularly within the criminal
justice system, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority and its paitner agencies will work to
foster and increase the accountability of the criminal justice system to ensure that the system meets its
responsibilities to victims and the community, improve and expand professional development, and
provide training to those working with victims.
Goals:
1. Promote implementation of promising and evidence-based victim service strategies in Illinois.
2. Promote effective multi-disciplinary partnership models across the justice and victim services
fields.
A. Training and professional development to equip people to perform cross-disciplinary
partnership models.
B. Prioritizing funding for these approaches when appropriate.
3. Equip providers to measure and manage their work and to communicate effectively about the
impact of their services.
A. Identify core data elements.
B. Assist victim service providers in collecting and using data.
C. Update I upgrade InfoNet.
4. Equip current and future criminal justice system professionals to understand these issues and to
have the right knowledge, skills, and competencies.
5. Promote compliance with, and enforcement of, constitutional and statutory rights of victims.
A. Make compliance with victims' rights a condition of the grant when appropriate.
B. Training and professional development of those responsible for implementing victims' rights.
C. Seek support of legislation that protects, expands, and affects victims' rights.
D. Legal representation of victims.
6. Increase/improve information sharing
A. Individual cases.
B. Grants management and what data gets collected and how it should be used.
7. Develop or refine accountability, management, and transparency in the criminal justice system
agencies in general

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 38

 a. Reduction of Domestic Violence-related Homicides
The Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence (ICADV) releases an annual report gathering
information from media sources concerning domestic violence homicides in Illinois with information
relating to charges filed, convictions and sentencing. The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
will work with ICADV, and other parties, to develop a series of goals and objectives to better understand
victims and the provision of services related to domestic violence homicides.

B. Priority Areas
a. Current Programs Supported with STOP VAWA Funds by Purpose Area
Purpose Area: Specialized Units
Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Multi-Disciplinary Team Response Programs
Four Multi-Disciplinary Team Response Programs (MDT) are being funded in Illinois. Peoria County,
McLean County, and St. Clair County provide services to victims of domestic violence and Kankakee
County provides services to victims of sexual assault.

The MDT programs aim to bridge the gaps in service to victims of both domestic violence and sexual
assault within the criminal justice system in Illinois. Model protocols and model guidelines for responding
to these victims are developed through the work of the MDTs. The programs have established a multidisciplinary approach toward the handling of domestic violence and sexual assault cases. In Peoria and St.
Clair counties, all services are centrally located so victims only need to go to one location to start the
criminal justice processes and receive the needed assistance to move forward on meeting the individual
needs of the victim.

Weekly and monthly meetings are held with the team. The teams are made up of the state's attorney's
office, the sheriffs office, probation, court services, and the victim service center, as well as non-funded
partners in each county. The focus of the meetings are the service provisions available by each partner to
ensure collaboration among the team members.

Sexual assault medical advocacy

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 39

 The Office of the Attorney General (OAG) provides leadership in coordinating Illinois' efforts to serve
sexual assault survivors. Through the Illinois Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE) program, the OAG
coordinates adult and adolescent SANE 40-hour educational component training on a statewide basis and
provides two-day Advanced SANE and 40-hour Pediatric SANE trainings to practicing SANEs. The
Illinois SANE coordinator, a registered nurse certified as a SANE through the International Association of
Forensic Nurses, is paid with funds from this grant. With the support of the Crime Victim Services
Division and other divisions within the OAG, the Illinois SANE program has run efficiently for six years.

The mission of the Illinois SANE program is to increase the number of SANEs working in Illinois by
providing high quality, consistent education and support for registered nurses and other professionals
serving sexual assault survivors. By educating nurses, police, prosecutors, advocates, and others,
survivors of sexual assault will be ensured of receiving quality patient care; full, fair and accurate forensic
evaluations; and a multi-disciplinary approach that holds offenders accountable for these heinous crimes.

Domestic violence and sexual assault prosecution
The Cook County State's Attorney's Sexual Assault/Domestic Violence Prosecution Coordination
Program serves felony sexual assault victims and felony and misdemeanor domestic violence victims.
Through this program, victims of violence against women benefit from services provided by a variety of
personnel, including: domestic violence investigators who provide an essential source of early contact,
education, and service to victims; Resource Center staff who link victims of domestic violence and sexual
assault to resources such as job training, education and employment services; felony review specialists
who have contact with victims of felony sexual assault and domestic violence shortly after they have
reported their victimization; a victim specialist who assists adult victims of felony sexual assault through
the court process; and assistant state's attorneys assigned to the program who vertically prosecute
offenders of felony sexual assault and felony domestic violence.
Domestic violence law enforcement
The Chicago Police Department (CPD) VA WA funded Law Enforcement Domestic Violence Training
and Data Analysis Program supports a training technician and a Chief Operations Research Analyst
(CORA). The training technician provides domestic violence training to CPD officers at all 25 Chicago
police districts. These trainings are based on data concerning domestic violence activity in the districts.
This information is provided at the request of district command. Trainings are provided to domestic
Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 40

 violence advocates in both governmental and private sectors. All receive training on the Chicago
Response Protocol and specialized training curriculum as needed.

The CORA position maintains a domestic violence statistical database. This data is monitored for
accuracy. All requests for domestic violence statistical data are fulfilled by the CORA. Both quarterly and
annual domestic violence statistical reports are completed and posted on the CPD intemet/intranet
websites. The CORA provides monthly reports to the training technician to assist in the preparation of
training curriculum and reaching targeted groups for training.

Purpose Area: Victim Services
Services for underserved areas of victim groups
The Illinois Coalitions Against Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence subcontract with their member
agencies to perform direct victims services and provide direct service providers with specialized training.
The five Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence (ICADV) programs include a large general
program funding basic advocacy services for victims of domestic violence and specialized programs
serving underserved areas and populations and child victims/witnesses of domestic violence. The four
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (I CASA) projects fund special services for underserved
populations as well as basic medical and legal advocacy services at coalition member agencies across the
state, including 14 satellite centers and two new centers.
Transitional housing services
The Authority currently funds 9 transitional housing programs for victims of domestic violence and their
children. The 9 programs are funded with a combination ofVOCA and VAWA monies. For these
projects, VOCA funds are used to the support salaries of transitional housing case managers or advocates
who provide intensive services to build victim self-sufficiency. Each project also has a VAWA
agreement which funds housing, utilities, and other key services.

Each of the programs establishes its own guidelines for client screening and program participation.
Because of the limited number of housing units funded, the number of victims serviced by this group of
programs remains small. The impact of these services, however, is great, giving victims of domestic

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 41

 violence and their children the opportunity to learn or regain skills and confidence necessary to live lives
free of violence.
Services to female inmates
The Illinois Department of Corrections (IDOC) uses VAWA funds for its Victim Services to Female
Inmates program. It provides facilitated groups for female inmates who were victims of domestic violence
or sexual assault prior to incarceration. The program is available in all prisons serving adult women and
girls. Staff involved in the program includes mental health professionals (MHP), IDOC and Illinois
Depaiiment of Juvenile Justice (IDJJ) administrators, program services staff, and other IDOC and IDJJ
staff. The MHP staff has been trained in Seeking Safety, a program that treats groups of victims for
trauma and post-traumatic stress disorder caused by domestic violence and sexual assault.

Additionally the grant program provides staff with training on, and other topics directly related to,
the effects of domestic violence and sexual assault. Additional training for these staff and staff leading
other victims' groups under this program has included information on domestic violence, the symptoms of
trauma, and specific techniques for counseling victims, and related topics. The training increases staff
awareness of the need for domestic violence treatment programs. It provides them with the knowledge
and tools needed to staii addressing victim recovery issues with the female inmates they encounter during
the normal scope of their work.

Services to victims of domestic violence
The City of Chicago's Domestic Violence Help Line's mission is to provide a single point of access to
domestic violence services. To fulfill this mission, the Help Line provides toll-free, 24-hour, confidential,
and multi-lingual assistance to callers and functions as a clearinghouse for domestic violence services and
information in the greater Chicago area. The Help Line provides assistance to victims, concerned family
members and friends, helping professionals such as domestic violence advocates, health care providers,
police officers, faith leaders, prosecutors, employers, and community residents.

The Help Line is staffed by trained and certified domestic violence advocates known as Victim
Information and Referral Advocates (VIRAs) who are employed by the Chicago Metropolitan Battered
Women's Network. VIRAs are on-site and available to answer calls 24-hours a day, 365 days a year.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 42

 Spanish speaking VIRAs are always available to answer calls and staff can access the AT&T Language
Line for up to 140 additional languages.

The Help Line receives calls for assistance and information from across Illinois. Callers are provided with
immediate information about their rights and options and when desired, are offered a direct three-way
linkage to community-based domestic violence resources including shelter, counseling, legal advocacy,
and children's services. The Help Line's current computer database consists of over 170 different local
domestic violence resources and the VIRA's are able to navigate these various services to target and link
callers with the most appropriate and accessible program. The Help Line's database is also capable of
searching for services by zip code so that if desired, victims can receive referral services that are located
in their community area.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page43

 b. Current Distribution o{STOP VAWA Funds by Discipline
VAWA funds must be allocated among five program areas for each individual federal fiscal year award
according to the VAWA guidelines. In Illinois, designations are made from funds allocated from each of
the program areas and tracked accordingly. Charts 1 through 5 illustrate fund distribution within these five
program areas:

Chart 1 - 30% to Service Providers

ILLINOIS COALITION
AGAINST SEXUAL
ASSAU LT, $632,548,
50%

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

ILLINOIS COALITION
AGAINST DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE, $632,548,
50%

Page 44

 Chart 2 - 25% to Law Enforcement Programs
Sexual Assault MultiDisciplinary Team
Sexual Assau lt
Medical Advocacy,
$116,499.00,
7.34%

Specialized Sexual
Assault Investigator
Training, $30,591.00,
1.93%

Domestic Vio lence &
Sexual Assau lt
Prosecution,
$327,930.00,
20.66%

Domestic Vio lence
Law Enforcement,
$127,485.00,
8.03%

Services to Victims of
Domestic Violence,
$364,000.00,
22.93%

Domestic Violence
Multi-Disciplinary
Team Response,
$571,630.00,
36.01%

Chart 3 - 25% to Prosecution Programs
Sexual Assault MultiDisciplinary Team
Response,
$50,912.00,
6.30%
Domestic Violence &
Sexual Assa ult
Prosecution,
$337,949.00,
41.81%

Domestic Violence
Multi-Disciplinary
Team Response,
$419,470.00,
51.89%

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 45

 Chart 4 - 15% for Discretionary Spending
Centralized Training
for Chicago Area
Domestic Violence
Agencies, $21,194.00,
3.34%

Transitional Housing
and Support Services,
$217,787.00,
34.33%

Domestic Violence
Multi-Disciplinary
Team Response,
$219,384.00,
34.58%

Statewide Victim
Assistance Training,---$25,230.00,
3.98%
Specialized Sexual
Assault Investigator
Training, $12,409.00,
1.96%

Sexual Assault MultiDisciplinary Team
Response,
$66,350.00,
10.46%

Services to Female
Inmates, $72,000.00,
11.35%

Chart 5 - 5% to Court Programs
Sexual Assault MultiDisciplinary Team
Response,
$48,380.00,
26.66%

Domestic Violence
Multi-Disciplinary
Team Response,
$133,111.00,
73.34%

*Please note that these breakouts are by agency and area served. Statewide service agencies include programs throughout the state, including services in
regions represented.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 46

 The distribution of funds by geographic region is determined by county population and crime date. Charts
1 through 4 illustrate the distribution of VA WA funds by region and crime type, as well as reported
offenses for those crimes.

*For comparison purposes statewide programs were broken into regions served.

c. Documentation ofNeed, Intent, and Results
See Appendix (D)

d. 20% Sexual Assault Set a Side
In the past, the Authority has designated all of each federal fiscal year's allocated Service Provider funds
to the two coalitions in Illinois; the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (I CASA) and the Illinois
Coalition Against Domestic violence (ICADV) in equal amounts. These funds were then subcontracted to
their program agencies for service to underserved areas or victim groups. The VSAHC has recommended
that the Authority continue designating the service provider funds in this marmer. As we implement the
priorities established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee with the 20% sexual assault set aside as
guidance, we will strive for a minimum of a 7 5/25 split in funding for future programing with all Request
for Proposals under each of the funding areas: Law Enforcement, Prosecution, Discretionary and Courts.
The following charts illustrate the current domestic violence I sexual assault funding relationships:

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 47

 Chart 1 - Law Enforcement Funds
SEXUAL ASSAULT,
$357,138,
20.35%

- - - DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE,
$1,397,927,
79.65%

Chart 2 - Prosecuiton Funds

SEXUAL ASSAULT,
$216,507,
29.54%

DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE, $516,356,
70.46%

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 48

 Chart 3 - Discretionary Funds
SEXUAL ASSAULT,
$127,374,
23.49%

DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE, $414,880,
76.51%

Chart 4 - Court Program Funds

SEXUAL ASSAULT,
$48,380,
26.66%

DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE, $133, 111,
73.34%

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 49

 C. Grant-making Strategy and Funding Cvcle
The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority uses two methods in making subgrant awardsthrough a request for proposals and via needs-based analysis. Most VAWA designations have been made
in the recent past through needs-based analysis. The ICJIA Research & Analysis Unit partners with the
Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee to identify service needs and gaps in service areas. Staff then works
with selected agencies within those geographical areas to:
I) Give priority to areas of varying geographic size with the greatest showing of need.
2) Consider the population of the geographic area to be served when determining sub grants.
3) Equitably distribute monies on a geographic basis, including non-urban and rnral areas of various
geographic sizes.
4) Ensure that the needs of previously underserved populations are identified and addressed.

These grants run on a 12-month basis. Grantees were given an initial three year funding period, but have
been continued as per the recommendation of the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee at their subsequent
meetings. Grant writing trainings are periodically provided by the agency, and technical assistance is
given through the grant monitor assigned to each grant in the way of desk monitoring and site visits, and
are particular to the federal program. Grants are designated for a single year, and renewed each year upon
analysis of goals and objectives. The parameters and the priorities identified in this plan will be forwarded
to the Authority Budget Committee for the designation of funds.

Programs receiving Violence Against Women Act funds have measurable objectives and grant recipients
are required to submit data reports to the Authority on a monthly or quarterly basis. Standard reports were
developed by the Department of Justice to capture information about the victims served, including
demographic information; primary language; county ofresidence; disability; relationship of the victim to
the offender; the nature of the victimization; services provided and the community collaboration in which
each program paiiicipates. A nanative report is also required describing major accomplishments, baniers
confronting the program, and plans for overcoming these problems. These data reports ai·e reviewed by
Authority staff to determine each program's progress toward its objectives.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page SO

 Each program is assigned a monitor who offers inf01mation and technical assistance in accordance with
the federal grant guidelines. Monitors oversee program progress throughout the performance period
through daily desk monitoring, the review of quarterly fiscal and data reports, and annual site visits. All
monitoring activity is reviewed and approved by the Victim Services Programs Administrator, as well as
legal and fiscal staff members of the agency. The information gathered is presented to the Victim Services
Ad Hoc Committee for funding recommendations.

Each VAWA application, Exhibit A, for any governmental unit requesting VAWA funding is asked to
explain the consultation process for their application, including the name of the victim service agency
within their service area consulted. A letter of support is also required from each agency listed.
Responses to this question are reviewed as part of the application process by the monitor.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 51

 State Distribution of Funding by Region

Chart 6 - VAWA Fund Distribution by Region

Statewide,
$1,478,825,
33.03%

Southern, $523,196, ~~
11.69%

Central, $1,059,403,
23.66%

Cook, $1,293,910,
28.90%

Northern minus Cook,
$121,435, 2.71%

D. ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF UNDERSERVED VICTIMS
a. State Set A Side (or Culturally Specific Communities
As the state administering agency for the S.T.O.P. VAWA funds in Illinois, ICJIA splits the victim
service funds from each award evenly between the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (I CASA) and
the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence (ICADV). To ensure that we meet the mandated 10
percent of the victim service funds for culturally specific and linguistically sensitive programs, each of the
coalitions are mandated to report, through quarterly data reports which show the numbers of victims from
culturally specific underserved populations, to exemplify how this requirement is met.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implem entation Plan

Page 52

 ICADV subcontracted with 17 local domestic violence programs that implemented 19 projects funded by
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The projects addressed the needs of three categories of
underserved survivor groups: mral women, Latinas, and chemically dependent survivors.
These funds also supported 11 Latina services projects in Illinois. Because of these grants, 2,024 new and
1,300 ongoing survivors received services and information available in Spanish. These clients were
provided 9,425 hours of services including counseling and advocacy. In agencies receiving VAWA
funding, Latinos comprise 33 percent of the total client population. This compares very well to 2000
Census figures for the percentage of Latinos in Illinois (12.3 percent) and to our statewide domestic
violence program average, which places Latinos at 19 percent of the total population of clients.
ICASA subcontracts with 13 agencies that use S.T.O.P. VAWA funds to provide services to victims of
sexual assault. Funds have been made available annually to these agencies to implement 14 projects that
target previously unserved or underserved victim populations in Illinois. Services provided by all of the
grantee programs include a minimum of a 24-hour hotline and 24-hour access to individual medical and
criminal justice advocacy. The primary focus is to provide crisis counseling and advocacy services.
Additionally, grantees provide on-going counseling, educational programs, and professional training

V. CONCLUSION
The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority is the state agency established to promote community
safety by providing public policy makers, criminal justice professionals, and others with the information,
tools, and technology needed to make effective decisions that improve the quality of criminal justice in
Illinois. Towards that purpose, the Authority's Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee recommended that
FFYl 4-16 VAWA funds be used principally to continue to support programs that:
•

Train criminal justice personnel.

•

Build successful multidisciplinary efforts.

•

Promote multidisciplinary approaches to sexual assault or domestic violence in other
communities.

•

Identify the needs of victim service providers and refines data collection and other
info1mation among criminal justice system agencies.

•

Support services that improve the criminal justice system's response to underserved or
cultural or linguistically isolated victim populations.

•

Analyze barriers identified by programs to develop solutions and best practices.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 53

 Once approved by the Authority Board, the recommendations made by the Victim Services Ad Hoc
Committee will be utilized in the funding recommendations made by staff for all STOP VAWA funds to
the Authority Budget Committee, which approves every designation made through this program.

Programs receiving Violence Against Women Act funds will continue to focus on the safety of the
victims and the accountability of the offender, and to prioritize culturally specific and linguistically
sensitive services. Programming designations are made from each of the five program areas mandated by
the STOP VAWA guidelines and tracked accordingly. Staff, in consultation with the Victim Services Ad
Hoc Committee, identifies service needs and gaps in service areas, and work with agencies to:

1) Give priority to areas of varying geographic size with the greatest showing of need.
2) Take into consideration the population of the geographic area to be served when determining
subgrants.
3) Equitably distribute monies on a geographic basis, including non-urban and rnral areas of various
geographic sizes.
4) Ensure that the needs of previously underserved populations are identified and addressed.

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 54

 Appendix A
Ad Hoc Committee on Victim Services
Lisa Jacobs, Chairman
Loyola University- Chicago Illinois Models for Change Initiative

Carrie Boyd
State's Attorney
Pike County State's Attorney's Office

Sharmilie Majmudar
Executive Director
Rape Victim Advocates

Dawn Dalton
Executive Director
Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women's
Network

Kevin McClain
Executive Director
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and
Standards Board

Neusa Gaytan
Program Director
Mujeres Latinas en Accion

Mark Parr
Executive Director
Children's Advocacy Center of NW Cook
County

John Harvey
Executive Director
Chestnut Health Systems, Inc.
LaMar Hasbrouck
Executive Director
Illinois Department of Public Health
Cynthia Hora
Assistant Attorney General
Office of the Attorney General
Candice Kane
Chief Operating Officer
Cure Violence/University of!L@ Chicago
Nicole Kramer
Director of Program Development
Office of the Cook County State's Attorney
Leslie Landis
Chief Court Administrator
Domestic Violence Division Circuit Court
of Cook County
Billie Larkin
Executive Director
Children's Advocacy Centers of Illinois

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Polly Poskin
Executive Director
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault
Jane Merrill
Manager Advocacy and Community
Engagement
Center on Halsted
Itedal Shalabi
Executive Director
Arab American Family Services
Vickie Smith
Executive Director
Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence
Sharon Spinks
Administrator
Illinois Department of Human Services
Sandra Wortham
Deputy Director: Domestic Violence Division
Chicago Police Department
Holly Zielke
Program Coordinator
Office of Elder Abuse

Page SS

 AppendixB

Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee Meeting
Tuesday, October 22, 2013
From 10 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
&
Wednesday, October 23, 2013
From 9 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.

Agenda - Day One - October 22, 2013

<

Call to Order & Roll Call: General Counsel Stephens
1. Welcome: Executive Director Cutrone
2. Introductions & Purpose of Meeting: Chairperson Jacobs
3. Approval of the Minute of the August 18-19, 2013 Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee
Meetings: Lisa Stephens
4. Legal Presentation: Junaid Afeef
>- S.T.0.P.VAWAGuidelines
>- VOCA Guidelines
5. Federal & State Grants Unit Presentation: Ron Reichgelt
>- Current VAWA Programs/Program Data
>- Current VOCA Programs/Program Data
6. Research & Analysis Unit Presentation: Adriana Perez
>- State Crime Trends
>- Special Population Demographic Information
7. Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee Members Survey Results

<

Lunch - On Your Own:
8. Multidisciplinary Team Respond Programs Evaluation Presentation: Tracy Hahn
9. Establish Goals & Objectives for 3-5 Year Period: Members

<

Adjourn

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page56

 Agenda- Day Two - October 23, 2013
<

Call to Order & Roll Call: General Counsel Stephens
I. Recap of Day One Meeting & Purpose of Meeting: Chairperson Jacobs
2. Establish Priorities for VAWA: Members
3. Establish Priorities for VOCA: Members

<

Adjourn

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 57

 Appendix C

Documentation of Participation

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 58

 I

I{) / Q,!)_ I 3_

IDepartment

Date

MrJMs.

First Nam Last Nam Title

Honorable

Anita

Alvarez

State's Attorney

Ms.

Dawn

Dalton

Executive Director

Ms.

Kandice

Kane

Chief Ooerating Office Cure Violence/University of Illinois at Chicago

Ms.

Neusa

Gaytan

Prom-am Director

Muieres Latinas en Accion

Ms.

Sharon

Spinks

Administrator

Illinois Deoartment of Human Services

Honorable

Lisa

Madigan

Attorney General

Office of the Attorney General

Ms.

Leslie

Landis

Chief Court Adminis

Domestic Violence Division Circuit Court of Cook Coun

Ms.

Billie

Larkin

Executive Director

Children's Advocacy Centers of IL

,7',, / .] :)

Mr.

McCarth

Su

Chica o Police De artment

/0()?(

Ms.

Poskin

Executive Director

Ms.

Merrill

Pro

IDesilmee

/Of;{::<

lcook County State's Attornev's Office

I
i'v?!'.J.,_:2;~
•l':l
1. ~ , ·;

rintendent

m Man er

.........

--

;;

(.__ ~ ,

.! /. ' -

I
, .'.j.{.. ,.t...-· .;

( P,:..:.·,....ct..

c ·t , ,___...

Shalabi

Executive Director

Arab American Famil Services

Ms.

Vickie

Smith

Executive Director

nlinois Coalition A ainst Domestic Violence

Mr.

Kevin

McClain

Executive Director

Illinois Law Enforcement Trainin and Standards Board

Ms.

Holly

Zielke

Program Coordinator

Office of Elder Abuse

Ms.

Sharmilie IMaimudar IExecutive Director

Ms.

Lisa

i u 13rJ / /3
'3

/C

/

-:;1 -1 >

,_

-

.
y

~-

-

, '

,~

'

"'

/

/ - :i_:· r-

'>.,/ µ . -

~~ .;._,// 3

Raoe Victim Advocates
_) , / !

Jacobs

Program Manager

Honorable !Carrie

Bovd

State's Attorne

Pike County State's Attorney's Office

Mr.

Mark

Parr

Executive Director

Children's Advocacy Center of NW Cook Coun

Dr.

LaMar

HasbroucklExecutive Director

Illinois Deoartment of Public Health

?

Mr.

John

!Harvey

Chestnut Health Systems, Inc

NIA

-:1

~i r

I .,,

/C - 7- 7 . I 3

Center on Halsted

Itedal

Kanore is/1/c.10

It - ,_ .,. · /j

nlinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault

Ms.

!Executive Director

..... ....

I01z..L

 1 o/[J_ '3. /r-::,_
MrJMs. !First NamlLast Namnttle
HonorabldAnita
Ms.

IDawn

Deoartment

Alvarez

!State's Attome

Cook Countv State's Attomev's Office

Dalton

!Executive Director

Chica20 Metrooolitan Battered Women's Network

Ms.

Kandice

IKane

Chief Ooeratinl! OfficelCure Violence/Universitv of Illinois at Chicago

Ms.

Neusa

Gavtan

Prol!fam Director

Muieres Latinas en Accion

Ms.

Sharon

Soinks

Administrator

Illinois Deoartment of Human Services

HonorabldLisa

Madi2an IAttomev General

Leslie

Landis

Chief Court AdministrdDomestic Violence Division Circuit Court of Cook Coun

Ms.

Billie

Larkin

!Executive Director

Mr.

G

McCarthv ISuoerintendent

Ms.

Poll

Poskin

!Executive Director

Illinois Coalition A2ainst Sexual Assault

Ms.

Jane

Merrill

Program Man2er

Center on Halsted

Ms.

Itedal

Shalabi

!Executive Director

Arab American Familv Services

Ms.

Vickie

Smith

Executive Director

Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence

Mr.

Kevin

McClain !Executive Director

Ms.

Holl

Zielke

Ms.

Sharmilie IMaimudarlExecutive Director

Ms.

Lisa

IC(J...

3,

1 C/'23/~C 13
(,,.,, _ ,]

\_;I ?-

,, ,
,'

Children's Advocacy Centers of IL
Chica20 Police Deoartment

ro

2~.1'!>

lt-1 - ~ s·-Cs

Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board

Prol!fam Coordinator !Office of Elder Abuse
Raoe Victim Advocates

Jacobs

Prol!fam Mana2er

Bovd

State's Attome

Pike Countv State's Attomev's Office

Executive Director

Children's Advocacy Center of NW Cook Coun

Mr.

Mark

Parr

Dr.

LaMar

HasbroucklExecutive Director

Mr.

John

·"'--..

Illinois Deoartment of Public Health

?

Chestnut Health Svstems, Inc

NIA

. . . .. t

'" l J ' : i (

(

fr\11a tc

Date

nature

Office of the Attomev General

Ms.

HonorabldCarrie

Deslmee

J~t;e~'\1/f jl.{01CC... IV! ,tia_ t1lE_,,

- .. ' ; !/

. ';t-;:;~;u

9') ivtCfA-

7

I "- ' !

/r)- /.2 3 /.:W {S .

 One l\/lission, One Voice

March 3, 2014
Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams, Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606
Dear Director Cutrone:
On behalf of the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence (ICADV), I am writing this letter in
support of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority's (ICJIA) efforts to develop a STOP
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) implementation plan for the State of Illinois. As a
member of ICJIA's Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee, we have successfully planned for the
development of meaningful and collaborative programs that will reduce and prevent violence
against women and provide victims with quality services, particularly in the areas of Illinois that
are underserved. Our agency was honored to participate in this intensive planning process with
a committee comprised of multidisciplinary and highly experienced members from all over the
state.
I commend ICJIA for its efforts to end violence against women in Illinois and look forward to
continuing our participation in the collaborative work to bring this about.
Sincerely,

Vickie M. Smith
Executive Director/CEO

 ()0}.~galnst

Sexual Amult

March 5, 2014

Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Dear Director Cutrone:
On behalf of the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault, I would like to thank you for
including ICASA in planning and implementation of grant fonding through the Violence Against
Women Act. The Violence Against Women Act has enabled victims of sexual assault to receive
critical services that were previously not available. In addition, VA WA makes it possible for
sexual assault crisis centers, criminal justice and medical systems and state government to
collaborate on the most effective, sensitive responses to sexual assault victims.
As part of the Authority's Ad Hoc Committee on Victim Services, I have appreciated
being included in planning and development of programs that respond to violence against
women. This Committee, with members from the criminal justice system and the victim services
community, has successfully expanded and enhanced services for sexual assault and domestic
violence victims.
VA WA funds have enabled sexual assault crisis centers in Illinois to establish 15 satellite
offices. Staff and volunteers at these offices have developed 24-hour crisis services in
communities that were previously unserved. Satellite services reach unserved rural areas and in
metropolitan Chicago neighborhoods that were previously underserved due to language and
cultural barriers. These communities would otherwise have little or no access to sexual assault
crisis services without the vital support of the VA WA S.T.O.P. Grant funds.
The Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault commends the Authority for its leadership
and inclusiveness in the collaboration effort to build victim services. We look forward to
continuing our work with you and other members of the VA WA planning team to support
survivors of sexual violence and create safer communities for all of Illinois' citizens.
Sincerely,

100 North 1st11 Street • Springfield, Illinois 62703-1102
(217) 753-4117 •Fax (217) 753-8229 • www.icasa.org

 State of Illinois
Circuit Court of Cook County
Domestic Violence Division
Sebastian T Patti

555 west Harrison Street
Suire 4400
Chicago. Illinois 60607
(312) 325-9000
Fax: (312) 325-9017

Presiding Judge

March 6, 2014
Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice lnfonnation Authority
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Dear Director Cutrone:
On behalfofthe Domestic Violence Division (DVD) of the Circuit Court of Cook County, I am writing this
letter in support of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority's (ICJIA's) implementation plan for
Violence Against Women Act (VA WA) funding for the State of Illinois. In my capacity as the DVD's
Court Administrator l am aware of how the VA WA funds administered by the lCJ IA suppo11 the court· s
work of criminal prosecutions and providing vital legal protections for victims of domestic and sexual
violence.
ln 2014, the DVD heard 8,092 petitions for orders of protection in our civil courtrooms as well as over
16,000 criminal cases which included an additional 2,500 orders of protection filed in conjunction with
those prosecutions. The majority of the people utilizing the DVD are low income. The age range is
expansive including elderly and minors in dating relationships with adults. The relationships vaf)· with
approximately 34% of all victims involved in dating relationships , another 17% married, and an additional
23% having children in common but are not married. Most of the victims are people of color and many are
non-English speaking, primarily Spanish or Polish speakers. VA WA funding suppo11S advocacy programs,
prosecution efforts and civil legal services without which the DVD could not fulfill its mission of providing
legal protection for victims and accountability for those who commit acts of domestic violence. The DVD
benefits from the results of the VAWA grant administration oflCJlA and would be hindered in the delivery
of necessary legal and supportive services for victims but for the funds the ICJIA provides to the VA WA
funded grantees and the court.
Having participated in lCJIA 's past planning process I recognize that those efforts have enhanced
collaboration. The work of !CHA in supporting an intensive planning process with a committee comprised
of multidisciplinary, experienced members is impressive. We commend ICJIA for its work to end violence
against women and look forward to continuing our participation in the collaborative work.
Sincerely,

},

·.

c:--J~ d.~-Leslie Landis
Court Administrator
Domestic Violence Division
Circuit Court of Cook County

··- --

- - - --

-

- --

- ---·- ·-

-··-··--·-··--·-

- --

- --- - - --

 March 10, 2014
Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Dear Mr. Cutrone:
Thank you for including Rape Victim Advocates in the planning process for FFY14 STOP
VAWA Formula Grant Program funding. I appreciated the opportunity to provide input
about the services to be funded under this program during the planning meetings. I am
confident that the VAWA implementation plan that was developed through this process
will address the needs and services which we collectively identified as priorities,
including responding to underserved populations.
As you know, Rape Victim Advocates serves survivors of sexual violence and their nonoffending significant others in Chicago - we provide 24-hour crisis response to 14
hospitals across the city. We also provide comprehensive counseling and advocacy
services free of charge to women, adolescents, children and men. In addition, we
provide prevention education to thousands of youth, faith community members, social
service staff, teachers, parents and other committed community members. Our services
reach thousands of survivors and their loved ones who would otherwise have no access
to sexual assault crisis and prevention services.
Please be assured that Rape Victim Advocates will continue to be a partner to ICJIA to
effectively aid victims of sexual violence.

Rape Victim Advocates: Helping Victims Become Survivors Since 1974
180 N. Michigan Avenue • Suite 600 • Chicago, IL 60601 • (312) 443-9603 • Fax: (312) 443-9602
www. rapevictimadvocates. org

 March 11 111 • 2014
Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Infomrntion Authority
300 W. Adams St, Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606
Dear Director Cutrone.
I am writing this letter in support of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority·s
(ICJIA) work to develop a STOP Violence Against Women Act implementation plan,
and to thank the Authority for including our agency in its development and planning
process through the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee. I appreciate the opportunity to
give input through the Ad Hoc Committee about the services to be fonded under this
program, and to advocate for the needs of minority and underserved survivors. Our long
collaboration V>'ith the Illinois Criminal Justice Infonnation Authority has yielded a
network of victim services that respond to underserved populations and geographic areas
and that are standardized throughout the state.
As you know, Mujeres Latinas en Acci6n serves primarily monolingual Spanish speaking
survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence in the Chicago land area. My
organization is one of the fe\v organizations that recognizes the great need for tailored
services on behalf of immigrants and limited English proficiency individuals, especially
when they are victims of sexual assault and domestic violence. Existing services for
victims with language barriers do not always consider cultural differences and special
needs required to assist the victims. Mujeres is particularly proud to have participated in
the development of the IC JIA ·s VA WA STOP implementation plan to advocate for the
needs of minority and underserved communities and help ensure quality services to all

 CACI
Children's

Centers of Illinois

leading •educating • collaborating

March 12, 2014
Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Dear Director Cutrone:
As a panel member on the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee (VSAHC) and
attending the two-day meetings in October 2013, as well as having been a long
standing VSAHC committee member, it is my privilege to write a letter of support
identifying the process and capabilities that are entrusted to this panel.
The underserved populations are a significant and constant topic to mobilizing the
diverse resources the committee's representatives include. With the size of Illinois,
the demographics oflarge urban and sprawling rural districts, the innovation of
service delivery coupled with the maintenance of programs doing real work is
imperative. As the Executive Director of Children's Advocacy Centers (CAC) in
Illinois, the panel's inclusion of the work of CA Cs, the collaborative effort among the
participants, all makes the services rendered in Illinois remarkable.
I appreciate the effort and the lead that the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority takes in defining the needs in Illinois and allowing each service area to be
seated and most importantly heard.

 OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
STATE OF ILLINOIS
.

· \

:Lisa Madigan
.ATTORNEY GENERAL

··. March 13, 2014

Jack Cutrone
.· Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams Street, Suite 700
Chicago, IL 60606

RE : VAWA STOP Funding for FFY14
Dear Mr. Cutrone:
I am writing to express the support of the Office of the Illinois Attorney General for continued Violence
Against Women Act 0/AWA) STOP funding administered by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
(the Authority) . Attorney General Lisa Madigan is committed to eradicating violence against women. She has
designated me to serve on the Authority's Ad Hoc Committee on Victim Services. As Chief of the Crime Victim
Services Division, I am familiar with the importance of crime victim services and the hurdles that must be
overcome to provide adequate services to victims of domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking. The other
members of the Ad Hoc Committee on Victim Services are individuals working directly with victims and
individuals in various agencies in the crimi_
nal justice system. The Committee met on two days in October 2013
to discuss best practices for assisting women who are victims of violence, where in the state those services are
needed and how to best serve underserved populations. At the end of the two days, the Committee identified
priorities and made recommendations to the Authority regarding the allocation of funds for victim services,
including funds from the VAWA STOP program. The Authority's grant awards of the VAWA STOP funds reflect
the Committee's priorities and recommendations. The funded programs provide must needed services to
Illinois women who are victims of violence.
·
If there is anything I can do to ensure continued VAWA STOP funding for Illinois women who are
victims of violence, please let me know.
Sincerely,

•

d~ ~ /)1.

c;z:~~~r~r

-

/

,i,..

A

/

//r/14"-'

Assistant Attorney General
Chief., Crime Victim Services Division

500 South Second Street, Springfield, Illinois 62706 • (217) 782·1090 • TTY: (877) 844-5461 • Faic (217) 782-7046
100 West Randolph Screct, Chicago, Illinois 60601 • (312) 814-3000 • TTY: (800) 964-3013 • Fax: (312) 814-3806
1001 East Main, Carbondale, Illinois 62901 • (618) 529-MOO • TTY: (877) 675-9339 • Fax: (618) 529-6416

·<E!>-

 THE

CHILDREN'S

ADVOCACY

c El-4TER

OF NORTH & NORTHWEST

CooK

CouNTY

March 13, 2014

Mr. Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
lllinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Dear Mr. Cutrone:
The Children's Advocacy Center of North and Northwest Cook County is pleased to write this
letter in support of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICTIA) and its application
for FFY 14 STOP VA WA Fonnula Grant Program funding .
As a member of the ICJIA Victim Service Ad Hoc Committee, our agency works closely with
the ICJIA in identifying service needs and gaps and updating funding priorities. This includes
our participation in the October 2013 committee meetings where the VAWA implementation
plan was developed. For nearly twenty-five years, the Children's Advocacy Center has been
serving child victims of sexual abuse and/or severe physical abuse, and their non-offending
family members. The Children's Advocacy Center looks forward to continuing this relationship
to ensure that the service needs of victims of abuse and maltreatment are appropriately
addressed .
Throughout the years, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority has demonstrated a
commitment to addressing the needs of victims of abuse, maltreatment and violence. The
VAW A implementation plan will address the needs and services identified as priorities by the
Committee, and will target underserved populations, including those for immigrant populations.
This Children's Advocacy Center ofNorth and Northwest Cook County will continue to work
collaboratively with the ICJlA and supports its application for FFY14 STOP VAWA funding .

. Sincerely,

~

~~csw

Executive Director
Children's Advocacy Center of
North and Northwest Cook County
640

ILLIN O

HO F FMAN

847-885-0100

FAX

IS

BOULEVARD

ESTATES,

847-885-0187

IL 60169
WWW.CAC HELPS.ORG

 Jack Cutrone
Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Dear Director Cutrone:
As a member of the FFY14 Violence Against Women Act planning
team I am pleased to provide this letter supporting implementation of
the plant the team prepared and offering the assistance of Cure
Violence in bringing the plan to life. We at Cure Violence are
particularly interested in violence being viewed as a behavior that is
reinforced by peer and community norms. We are therefore
committed to working with the Authority and others to assure the
needs and services outlined in the plan are addressed along with the
needs of underserved populations.
Please contact me if you have questions.
Sincerely,

Candice M. Kane, Ph.D., J.D.
Chief Operating Officer

 AppendixD

Documentation of Need, Intent and Result by Discipline

Illinois Violence Against Women Implementation Plan

Page 59

 Rahm Emanuel
Mayor

Department of Police • City of Chicago
3510 South Michigan Avenue • Chicago, Illinois 60653

Jack Cutrone, Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams St., Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Garry F. McCarthy
Superintendent of Police

February 28, 2014

Dear Director Cutrone:
The Chicago Police Department (CPD) Domestic Violence Program strives to be a Model Domestic
Violence Program and to reduce the incidence of domestic violence. As we enter into another year of
VA WA-supported program operations (as part of a unified effort which includes the Cook County State's
Attorney's Office and the Mayor's Office on Domestic Violence) we acknowledge your Agency's positive
impact in helping to build the successes of our Domestic Violence Program.
ICJIA's VA WA grants continue to fund two key CPD positions, a Training Technician and a Chief
Operations Research Analyst (CORA). The Training Technician provides domestic violence training
based on the Chicago Response protocol used by responders to create a caring and effective response to
victims of domestic violence to CPD officers serving all of Chicago's many diverse communities, along
with specialized domestic violence training (e.g. Shaken Baby Syndrome; Elder Abuse) to prepare
officers to respond to domestic violence service calls. This training is also offered to Victim Service
providers. The CORA analyzes CPD domestic violence data and works with the Domestic Violence
Operations Coordinator in examining patterns and trends. The CORA also responds to all requests for
domestic violence statistical data and prepares data reports that are posted on CPD's inter/intranet. The
CORA supports the development of training curricula by providing the Training Technician with
developing crime trends data and identifies areas in need of immediate resource focus.
ICJIA VA WA funding allows CPD to revise, reprint, and distribute the Chicago Response to Domestic
Violence to service providers and citizens in English and multiple languages. This brochure is also being
used city-wide as a training tool for police officers and is available to citizens on the CPD website.
Clearly, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority has supported CPD ' s Domestic Violence
Program in its growth and development of meaningful services to the citizen s of Chicago.
The Chicago Police Department appreciates your support for our efforts to bring an end to domestic
violence and to improve our response when it does occur, and we will rely upon your cominued support
in 2014 as we continue these efforts and address new initiatives, including the issues of teen dating
violence and stalking.
Sincerely,

arthy
p
t of Police
Chicago Police Department

Emergency and TTY: 9-1-1 •Non Emergency and TTY: (within Cit y limit s) 3-1-1 •Non-Emergency and TTY: (out si de Cit y limits) (3 12) 746-6000
E-mail: clearpat h@ch icagopoli ce.org • \Vebsite: www.ch icagopolice.org

 One 1Viission, One Voice

March 3, 2014
Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams, Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606
Dear Director Cutrone:
On behalf of the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence (ICADV), I would like to strongly support your efforts
to obtain grant funding for Illinois from the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). This act has been crucial to
Illinois in its support of collaborative efforts between law enforcement, prosecutors, and domestic violence
programs to respond to the needs of victims and their dependents.
IOIA's Ad Hoc Committee on victim services has effectively planned for the development of collaborative
programs through the STOP grants. Our participation on this committee with other professionals has made that
planning process inclusive of a variety of points of view. ICJIA can be congratulated on its leadership in this effort.
The STOP grants to local domestic violence programs have focused on unserved and underserved victims in Illinois.
The VAWA funds support five programs to staff satellite offices in rural counties where no other presence of
services for victims of domestic violence existed previously. It also provides funds to nine programs to provide
services to Latinas that are monolingual in Spanish and who face other cultural barriers. Finally, VAWA STOP
provides funds to three agencies to provide services to women who have chemical dependency problems and are
victims of domestic violence. Prior to this funding these women did not have access to the kind for services that
would adequately address both issues.
During SFY13, these projects provided service to 6,050 survivors of domestic violence. Clients served by the VAWA
STOP funded projects are very diverse in their demographic profiles and that doesn't typically change much from
year to year. VAWA STOP projects serve clients of all ages, genders, races, marital status and disability status. Of
those clients served last year, 89% were women; 65% identified White as their race; 16% identified Black/African
American as their race; 28% identified Latino/Hispanic as their ethnicity. Approximately 34% of the clients were
between the ages of 18 and 29and another 29% were between the ages of 30 and 39. Roughly 15% had limited
English skills requiring an interpreter of which 93% were Spanish speaking clients. 39% were married; 38% were
single; 12% were divorced. We anticipate that FY14 demographic information on clients served by VAWA STOP
grants will remain consistent with demographic patterns from previous years.
ICADV looks forward to working with ICJIA in our efforts to stop domestic violence in Illinois.

Executive Director/CEO

 (J0lt\galmt

Sexual Auault

March 5, 2014
Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606
Dear Director Cutrone:
Thank you and your staff for working with the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault
(ICASA) to program VAWA S.T.0.P. funds to expand access to sexual assault services in
Illinois. !CASA provides crisis intervention, advocacy and counseling services to sexual assault
victims throughout Illinois. As you know, Illinois has large rural areas of the state that were
once unserved or underserved by sexual assault crisis centers. Specific populations in urban
areas have likewise been underserved due to cultural and/or language barriers.
VA WA funds awarded to ICASA and subcontracted to sexual assault centers have
expanded accessibility of sexual assault services for underserved and unserved communities
through the establishment of satellite offices. In the first year of the VA WA program (SFY96),
ICASA established eight satellite projects. In SFY14, 15 satellite projects are serving 22
counties across the state. Nine of these satellites are located in northern Illinois, two in the
central region and four in the southern region. These satellite programs are required to provide
24-hour access to crisis intervention, 24-hour medical advocacy and advocacy throughout the
criminal justice process. The primary focus of these projects is to promote trauma recovery and
to maximize medical care and criminal justice response to victims of sexual violence.
These satellite programs provide culturally competent services in African-American,
Latino and Arab-American communities as well as rural areas and GLBT communities who
would otherwise receive no advocacy or counseling in the aftermath of sexual assault. The
programs serve male and female victims of all ages. The VA WA S.T.0.P. funds will make it
possible to sustain outreach and service delivery in these communities. As you know, these
services would not be possible without VA WA S.T.0.P. funding.
We will continue all currently funded services with ongoing VAWA funds and look
forward to your continued support and the assistance of your excellent staff.
Sincerely,

Polly Poskin
Executive Director

100 North 16th Street • Springfield, Illinois 62703-1102
(217) 753-4117 •Fax (217) 753-8229 • www.icasa.org

 State of Illinois
Circuit Court of Cook County
Domestic Violence Division
Sebastian T Patti

555 West Harrison Street

Presiding Judge

Suite 4400
Chicago. Illinois 60607
(312) 325-9000
Fax: (312) 325-9017

March 6, 2014

Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams. Suite 200
Chicago. Illinois 60606
Dear Director Cutrone:
On behaJf of the Domestic Violence Division (DVD) of the Circuit Court of Cook County. I am writing this letter in support of the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority's (lCJIA) administration of VAW A funding for the State of Illinois. In my capadtv as
the DVD 's Court Administrator lam aware of how the VA WA funds administered by the ICJIA support the court 's work now and
hopefully in the future .
The DVD includes domestic violence criminal prosecution cases as 11·ell as cases involving civil legal protections for' i-:tims o f
domestic and sexual violence. In 2013. the DVD heard over 8.092 petitions for orders of protection in our civil courtroom~ a> 11·<:11 a;;
over 17.000 criminal cases which included an additional 3.000 plus orders of protection filed in conjunction \\'ith thos-: prosecution s.
The majority of the people utilizing the DVD are low income. The ag~ range is expansive including elderly and minors in dating
relation ships with adults. The relationships vary with approximately 34% or all victims involved in dating relationships. another
17% married, and an additional 23% having children in common. Most of the victims are people of color and many are non-Engh sh
speaking, primarily Spanish or Polish speakers.
For the court, VA WA funding is needed to support specialized personnel in the Ot1ice of the Chief Judge. Some specializeJ
personnel (Help Desk staff) respond to people who enter the courthouse offering initial check-in while triaging individuab to sources
of further assistance. Other specialized staff the Court Administrator. proYides case coordination and courtroom logisti.::al suppon
while addressing procedural issues. troubleshooting problems and n:sponding to complaints. To provide oid l\> othcn' i:;c pm -;e
victims. the Court Administrator oversees both !all' student and pro bono la\\ycr efforts at the Chicago courthouse. Ha' ing.
developed a data collection process the Court Administrator analyzes and reports the outcomes of this n:vie'' tu the DVD judges as
well as other department heads and stakeholder groups. The Court Admini strator maintains stakeholder relationships by con1 cning
and providing staff support to many work groups while carrying those efforts forward in 1\orking with judicial staff to implement
enhancements. Additional staff the Suburban Coordinator. supports coordination while ensuring uniformity of practice in th.:
suburban locations of the DVD. The Suburban Coordinator convenes suburban stakeholders to address each suburb' s unique issues.
Without the work of all these staff members the DVD would be curtailed in examining objective data. seeking input of key partners
and stakeholders toward building best practice as no other court personnel has time outside of specific case processing tUnctions to
attend to such work. '[be DVD would also utilize funding for judicial training, training of court interpreters and/or probation
department employees all of whom fall under the Office of the Chief Judge.
We commend ICJIA for its work to end domestic and sexual violence and look fonrnrd to cominuing our participation in ch.:
work required of us all in ma'\imizing tht: use of VA WA funding locally.

~olh1borative

~J~

Leslie Landis
Court Administrator
Domestic Violence Division
Circuit Court of Cook County

 Administrative Office • 725 South Second Street• Springfield, IL 62704 • 217-782-1628 •Fax 217-782-6305

March 12, 2014

PATRICK J. DELFINO
DIRECTOR

BRIAN J. TOWNE
CHAIRMAN

DEPUTY DIRECTORS
SECOND DISTRICT:

LAWRENa M. BAUER
THIRD DISTRICT·
Tt'RRY A. MERTEL
FOURTH DISTRICT:

Mr. Jack Cutrone
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 West Adams Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606-3997

DAVID J. ROBINSON
FIFTH DI STRICT:

STt'PHEN E. NORRIS
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
FIRST DISTR ICT:

A.NITA ALVAREZ
STATE'S ATTORNEY
COOK COU NTY
SECOND DISTRICT:
JOSEPH BRUSCATO
STATE'S ATIORNEY
W INN EBAGO CO UNTY

Re: S*T*O*P* Violence !\gainst Women Act FFY14
Dear Executive Director Cutrone:
On behalf of the State's Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor, I would like to strongly
support Illinois' planning efforts towards the use of S*T*O*P* Violence Against Women Act
funds for Federal Fiscal Year 2014. This Act addresses serious issues in Illinois and
provides a framework for public/private sector collaboration that began with funds from
previous years and is needed to continue those programs.
The State's Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor is requesting continued VAWA funding
for FFY14 to present ongoing training for professionals in the criminal justice system
including prosecutors, law enforcement, victim advocates, and the judiciary.
The goals and expected results of these conferences include:

JOSEPH H. McMAHON
STATE'S ATIORNEY
KANE COU NTY

1.

Presentations that highlight successful methods for prosecuting domestic
violence and sexual assault cases with emphasis on victim sensitivity; and

2.

Collaborations with law enforcement and victim advocates to increase
community safety and provide quality services for victims.

THI RD DISTRICT:

JAMIE BOYD
STATE'S ATIORNEY
KANKAKEE COUNTY
TERENCE M . PATION
STATE'S ATIORNEY
HENRY CO UNTY

BRIAN J. TOWNE
SIA! E'S AITORNEr
LASALLE CO UNTY

The demographics will comprise all domestic violence and sexual assault victims
and will encompass all ethnicities, races, ages, and genders.
We look forward to continuing our participation in the planning process as well as
the implementation of Illinois' plan. These funds will assist in addressing critical issues
towards reducing violence against women through collaborative responses.
Very truly yours,

Q_~rr--=-

FOURTH DISTRICT:
BENGOmEN
STA rE' S ATIOR NEY
JE RSEY COUNTY

JOHN C. M ILHISER
STATE'S ATTOR NEY
SA NGAMON CO UNTY
FIFTH DISTRICT
JUSTIN HOOD
STATE'S ATIORNEY
HAMILTON COU NTY

BRENDAN F. KELLY
STATE'S ATIORNEY
ST. CLAIR COU NTY

www.ilsaap.org

P~trick

J.
Director

PJD:ij

elfin

 