ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Strategic Opportunities Committee & Budget Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

October 20, 2017

Re:

October 25th Joint Budget and Strategic Opportunities Committees
Meeting Information

This memo provides a brief overview of the joint Budget and Strategic Opportunities Committee
(SOC) meeting on Wednesday, October 25th from 1:00-3:00 p.m.
An emergency Budget Committee meeting will precede the SOC meeting. The materials for the
Budget Committee meeting are attached to this email. Given ICJIA’s significant increase in grant
making, particularly with the new state-funded grants, staff needed to schedule this extra Budget
meeting to hear program recommendations. Members of the SOC will be appointed to the Budget
Committee for the duration of the October 25th meeting, so they may vote on the actionable items.
Budget materials will be included in the informational email.
After the Budget Committee business has concluded, ICJIA staff will give a presentation on the
Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA). At the September 28, 2017 Budget
Committee meeting, Board members requested background information on the SORNA grant
funds to better understand the purpose of the fund, allowable uses for the money, and ICJIA’s
plan for the funds. This presentation will address those topics and staff will then facilitate a
strategic planning discussion so that Board members can express any ideas or questions that they
have.
If time allows, we will then discuss what we learned from our recent Strengths, Weaknesses,
Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) analyses, and how we can act upon these findings. Building
off of this work, we plan to discuss how best to survey Board members about their most urgent
criminal justice concerns. We will then conclude with an update on our strategic programs.
For members who cannot attend in person, please use the following conference-call number and
password: 888-494-4032, password 764-088-4751. If individual members are unable to attend or
call-in to the meeting, but wish to contribute to the discussion, please contact me by email or
phone (john.maki@illinois.gov, 312-793-8550).
We look forward to your participation and guidance.
Thank you,
John Maki
Executive Director,
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
Wednesday, October 25, 2017
1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois

AGENDA

I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.

Call To Order and Roll Call
Approval of August 29, 2017 Meeting Minutes
Presentation: Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act
Discussion: ICJIA Strategic Planning
Program Updates
a.
b.
c.
d.

VI.
VII.
VIII.

Linking Systems of Care for Children and Youth
Illinois Entrepreneurship Reentry Program
Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils
Sex Offenses and Sex Offender Registration Task Force

Other Business
Public Comment
Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent state and
federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should
contact by telephone or letter John Klaer, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200, Chicago,
Illinois, 60606-5150, (312) 793-8946. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, August 29, 2017, at 1:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Roll Call
Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 1:04 p.m. and asked General Counsel
Angie Weis to call the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Paula Wolff (Chair)

X

Telephone

Director John Baldwin
Director Patrick Delfino

Absent

X
X

Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson

X

Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan X
Director Michael J. Pelletier

X

President Toni Preckwinkle

X

Other Authority Members Present

Present

Public Defender Carla Barnes

X

Clerk Hon. Dorothy Brown

X

Peter Kocerka for Public Defender Amy
Campanelli

X

Nicole Kramer for State’s Attorney Kim Foxx

X

Judge Elizabeth Robb

Telephone

X

Chief Jim O’Grady for Director Leo Schmitz

X

Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X

Absent

 Also in attendance were:
Dr. Megan Alderden, ICJIA Research Director
Malgorzata Bereziewicz, ICJIA VOCA Attorney
Maureen Brennan, ICJIA Grant Monitor
Caitlin DeLong, ICJIA Executive Assistant
Reshma Desai, ICJIA Special Projects Program Advisor
Mary Ann Dyar, Adult Redeploy Illinois Associate Director
Dawn English, ICJIA Human Resources
Tracy Hahn, ICJIA Research Manager
Randy Kurtz, ICJIA Chief Financial Officer
John Maki, ICJIA Executive Director
Robin Murphy, ICJIA Deputy Counsel
Adriana Perez, Adult Redeploy Illinois Program Manager
Ronnie Reichgelt, ICJIA Program Manager
Gregory Stevens, ICJIA Program Manager
Angie Weis, ICJIA General Counsel
Approval of Minutes
Chair Robb verbally appointed all present non-committee Board members to the Strategic
Opportunities Committee for the August 29th meeting. With quorum achieved, Ms. Hora
moved to accept the minutes from June 27, 2017, and Ms. Barnes seconded. They passed
unanimously.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki gave an overview of ICJIA’s history of strategic planning. With lessons
learned from creating a plan for Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant funds, he said
ICJIA was prepared to undertake a more rigorous process to formulate a strategy for the
dramatically increased Victime of Crime Act funds. He also described initiatives which
extend this planning work beyond the agency, such as the Illinois State Commission on
Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform and the Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils.
ICJIA is mandated to carry out planning work for violence prevention; criminal justice
development, implementation, and evaluation; state and local grantmaking;
comprehensive trauma recovery services; and federal formula funds.
Director Maki led a discussion on the missions of the Strategic Opportunities and Budget
committees: the Strategic Opportunities Committee is tasked with examining the
principles, priorities, and processes of the agency, and the Budget Committee is expected
to review the agency budget and oversee the Criminal Justice Trust Fund. After
indicating that one of the priorities is to ensure a statewide impact, Director Maki added
that members can help gather local data and support relationships to help ICJIA truly
understand criminal justice needs. Discussion followed, including comments about how
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
August 29, 2017
Page 2

 grant applications, written with varying degrees of skill and innovation, might not always
be the best indicator of an applicant agency’s ability to solve important problems.
Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, and Threat Analysis
Dr. Alderden explained how a Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, and Threat (SWOT)
analysis helps participants organize helpful internal strengths and external opportunities
that may be capitalized upon to overcome harmful internal weaknesses or external
threats.
STRENGTHS
-

WEAKNESSES
-

Some Board members willingness
to engage
Board represents criminal justice
system
Clear, transparent grant process
Board protects process
Information provided to Board has
improved

-

OPPORTUNITIES
-

Attendance (quorum, participation,
preparedness)
Meetings lack purpose, topics not
relevant to members
Board members are busy
Appearance of Chicago/Cook
County focus
Technical capabilities (video/
teleconferencing)
Lack of clarity about internal grant
process
Some funds lack strategic plans
Board members may have conflicts
of interest

THREATS

Alternative meeting locations
(Springfield, Peoria, Champaign)
GATA provides better organization,
clearer vision, greater transparency
and accountability
Use of designees for committees

-

Changes in Board membership
Multiple external interests in funds
and how to use them (potential
influence)
Lapsing funds

During the SWOT analysis, members engaged in conversation about materials provided
to the Budget Committee. Requested information included how many applications were
received for each notice, how many of these applications were rejected for not meeting
basic requirements, the geographic distribution of the applying agencies, and
performance histories of the current grantees.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
August 29, 2017
Page 3

 Adjourn
Ms. Hora offered the floor for public comment. Seeing none, she moved to adjourn. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Pelletier. The meeting was adjourned at 2:59 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
August 29, 2017
Page 4

 