Criminal Justice Plan
for the
State of Illinois
Hon. George H. Ryan, Governor

June 1, 2001

Prepared by:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 1016
Chicago, Illinois 60606-3997

Peter B. Bensinger, Chairman
Candice M. Kane, Ph.D., Executive Director

 Criminal Justice Plan for the State of Illinois

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This Criminal Justice Plan for the State of Illinois is a result of the tremendous
collaborative efforts and thoughtful guidance of the multitude of individuals listed in
Appendix III.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 1016
Chicago, Illinois 60606-3997
Phone: (312) 793-8550
Fax: (312) 793-8422

Staff Contacts:

Karen Griffiths
Office of the Executive Director
kgriffiths@icjia.state.il.us

Gerard F. Ramker, Ph.D.
Research and Analysis Unit
gramker@icjia.state.il.us

This project was supported in part with funds from grants #98-DB-MU-0017, #99-DB-BX-0017,
#98-JB-VX-0017, #99-JB-VX-0017 and #98-LB-VX-0029, awarded to the Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority by the U.S. Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Assistance;
and by grant #99-VA-GX-0017, awarded to the Authority by the U.S. Department of Justice's
Office of Victims of Crime. The Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs,
coordinates the activities of the following program offices and bureaus: Bureau of Justice
Assistance, Bureau of Justice Statistics, National Institute of Justice, Office of Juvenile Justice and
Delinquency Prevention, and the Office of Victims of Crime. Points of view or opinions
contained within this document do not necessarily represent the official position or policies of the
U.S. Department of Justice.

Printed by Authority of the State of Illinois, June 2001.
Printing order number 02-020
750 copies

 June 1, 2001
To the Reader:
Many years ago, Daniel Burnham, the turn-of-the-century U.S. Parks
Commissioner whose plans shaped much of Chicago, said, "Make no small plans,
for they have no magic to stir men's blood." I think in recent times, we in the
criminal justice system have made small plans - dealing with symptoms not
causes, and not coordinated or particularly well-formed, collaborative, strategic
plans.
A little more than a year ago, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority decided to launch an effort to develop a new planning process - a
comprehensive planning effort that we hope will help guide the allocation of our
precious resources on key, critical problems for which we will set realistic and
meaningful goals and objectives. More importantly, we wanted this planning
process to be based on research and data, and expert opinion. Above all, we
wanted it to be the result of a collaboration among all allied partners in the battle
against crime in this state.
The following plan represents the first fruits of this labor. It identifies key
priority issues and recommends realistic, measurable goals, objectives, and action
steps for responding to them. In short, this is our first "big plan" for the criminal
justice system - one which I hope will stir our blood to chart our course for the
future.
On behalf of Governor George Ryan, the members of the Authority, and
all those who devoted their time and expertise to its development, I am pleased to
present this Criminal Justice Plan for the State of Illinois.
Respectfully,

Peter B. Bensinger
Chairman

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Letter to the Reader

i

Table of Contents

ii

Authority Resolutions Regarding the Plan

iii

I.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1

II.

THE PLANNING PROCESS

14

Background
Criminal Justice Planning Assembly
Ad Hoc Advisory Committee
Pre-Assembly Survey
Discussion Groups
Professional Associations
Governor Ryan's Summit on Gangs, Guns and Drugs
Other Input
Next Steps

III.

IV.

THE STATE CRIMINAL JUSTICE PLAN: ADVISORY
COMMITTEE REPORTS

19

Drug and Violent Crime

20

Juvenile Crime

30

Offender Services

50

Victims of Violent Crime

73

Community Capacity Building

95

Information Systems and Technology

106

APPENDICES

120

I.

References

121

II.

Background on the Criminal Justice Information Authority

123

III.

Participants in the Planning Process

133

Post-Criminal Justice Planning Assembly Advisory Committees
The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority's Committees
Ad Hoc Advisory Committee for the Assembly
Criminal Justice Planning Assembly Discussion Groups

ii

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION
AUTHORITY

AUTHORITY RESOLUTION #1 (2001)
Criminal Justice Plan for the State of Illinois
WHEREAS, in June 1999, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority charged its
staff to develop a new comprehensive planning process to help guide its administration of
grant funds and to inform the criminal justice system and allied partners;

120 South Riverside Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60606-3997
Phone: (312) 793-8550
Fax: (312) 793-8422
TDD: (312) 793-4170

George Ryan, Governor
_______________________________
_______________________________

Peter B. Bensinger
Chairman

Jane Rae Buckwalter
Vice Chairman

Dorothy Brown
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk

Timothy F. Bukowski
Kankakee County Sheriff

Richard A. Devine
Cook County State’s Attorney

Norbert J. Goetten
Director, Office of the State’s
Attorneys’ Appellate Prosecutor

Terry Hillard
Superintendent
Chicago Police Department

Maureen Josh
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk

Thomas J. Jurkanin
Director, Illinois Law Enforcement
Training and Standards Board

John Millner

WHEREAS, the planning process has been guided by ongoing research, data collection,
and professional input and consultation, highlighted by a two-day Criminal Justice
Planning Assembly held in June 2000, in which nearly 150 policymakers, service
providers, researchers, private citizens, and government officials participated;
WHEREAS, special advisory committees formed after the Assembly were convened to
refine critical issues and develop strategic plans for addressing them, including the
articulation of goals, objectives and action plans in the areas of funding, research,
legislation and policy;
WHEREAS, this work has been developed into a Criminal Justice Plan for the State of
Illinois;
WHEREAS, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority acknowledges that the
Criminal Justice Plan is part of an on-going process of evaluating the resources available
to and the needs of the criminal justice system in Illinois and that the needs, as well as the
resources, are continually changing; and
WHEREAS, this plan has been reviewed extensively by the Authority's Planning and
Research Committee and at its January 30, 2001 meeting the Committee voted
unanimously to recommend the full Authority's adoption of the Plan.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority approves the Criminal Justice Plan for the State of Illinois dated March 2,
2001, and in so doing, recognizes that the needs of and the resources available to the
criminal justice system are continually changing, and that future resources may be needed
to address needs that are presently not ascertainable;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the plan be made publicly available and its
Executive Summary be widely disseminated to criminal justice officials, service
providers, policy makers and others for consideration in their budgeting and planning
processes;

Chief, Elmhurst Police Department

Sam Nolen
Director of State Police

Jim Ryan
Illinois Attorney General

Michael Sheahan
Cook County Sheriff

Donald N. Snyder, Jr.
Director of Corrections

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Authority's Planning and Research Committee,
Legislation and Regulations Committee, Information Systems Committee, Budget
Committee, and staff are hereby directed to take actions consistent with the goals,
objectives and actions recommended in the Plan which are reasonably within the scope of
the Authority's duties and responsibilities.
ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY this 1st day of June 2001, after a motion by Mr. Piland
and second by Ms. Josh.

Michael Waller
Lake County State’s Attorney

Al Apa
Barbara Engel
John C. Piland
Members of the Public
_______________________________
_______________________________

Candice M. Kane, Ph.D.
Executive Director

Peter B. Bensinger
Chairman

Candice M. Kane
Executive Director

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION
AUTHORITY

AUTHORITY RESOLUTION #2 (2001)
Grant Making Principles
WHEREAS, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority has identified
the need for adopting overarching principles to guide its grant making;

120 South Riverside Plaza
Chicago, Illinois 60606-3997
Phone: (312) 793-8550
Fax: (312) 793-8422
TDD: (312) 793-4170

WHEREAS, the formulation of such principles has been considerate of previous
discussions of the Authority and workgroups contributing to the State Criminal
Justice Plan, recommendations contained in the State Criminal Justice Plan, and
the Authority's administrative experience with the grant making function; and
WHEREAS, these principles were reviewed and discussed in past meetings of
the Authority and in joint meetings of its Budget and Planning & Research
Committees,

George Ryan, Governor
_______________________________
_______________________________

Peter B. Bensinger
Chairman

Jane Rae Buckwalter

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority hereby adopts the following grant making principles:
The Authority should strive to maximize the use of available federal funds,
seeking any and all reasonable alternatives to lapsing funds back to the federal
government.

Vice Chairman

Dorothy Brown
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk

1.

The Authority's decision to award federal funds should have a foundation
in the best available research, evaluation, practice and professional
advice.

2.

The Authority's decision to award federal funds should be considerate of
the balance of resources across the justice system and its potential impact
in other areas of the system.

3.

The Authority's federal funds should not result in the duplication of
efforts already in place.

4.

The Authority's federal funds cannot be used to supplant other funds.

5.

The Authority's federal funds should be allocated (a) to areas
demonstrating need based on an analysis of the nature and extent of the
problem(s), and (b) to programs in areas where there is an opportunity to
impact the identified problem(s).

Timothy F. Bukowski
Kankakee County Sheriff

Richard A. Devine
Cook County State’s Attorney

Norbert J. Goetten
Director, Office of the State’s
Attorneys’ Appellate Prosecutor

Terry Hillard
Superintendent
Chicago Police Department

Maureen Josh
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk

Thomas J. Jurkanin
Director, Illinois Law Enforcement
Training and Standards Board

John Millner
Chief, Elmhurst Police Department

Sam Nolen
Director of State Police

Jim Ryan
Illinois Attorney General

Michael Sheahan
Cook County Sheriff

Also, to the extent permitted by program guidelines, some portion of available
federal funds should be used for the following:
6.

To encourage collaborative approaches to problem solving, planning and
program implementation;

7.

To encourage innovative pilot or demonstration projects;

8.

To evaluate funded projects and support an ongoing program of research
designed to further planning and program development; and

Donald N. Snyder, Jr.
Director of Corrections

Michael Waller
Lake County State’s Attorney

Al Apa
Barbara Engel
John C. Piland
Members of the Public
_______________________________
_______________________________

Candice M. Kane, Ph.D.
Executive Director

 9.

To build the capacity of those in the criminal justice system.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that these principles be made publicly available and are widely
disseminated;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Authority, its various committees and staff ensure that,
to the extent permitted by program guidelines, the Authority's grant making process is consistent
with these principles.
ADOPTED UNANIMOUSLY this 1st day of June 2001, after a motion by Mr. Piland and
second by Ms. Engel.

Peter B. Bensinger
Chairman

Candice M. Kane
Executive Director

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

I.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

I

n 1999, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority charged its staff to
develop a new comprehensive planning process to guide its administration of
federal grant funds. The project, which was launched under the oversight of
the Authority's Planning and Research Committee, resulted in this State Criminal
Justice Plan.
The plan is not intended to tell other agencies or organizations what to do, but
rather to share information that should be helpful to them, while at the same time
providing a contextual backdrop to inform the Authority in deliberations on how
its limited resources should be used in the areas of program funding, research and
evaluation, legislative and policy initiatives.
The planning process was guided by a tremendous amount of research, data
collection, professional input and consultation, highlighted by a two-day Criminal
Justice Planning Assembly held in June, 2000 in which nearly 150 policymakers,
service providers, researchers, private citizens, and government officials
participated. Following the Assembly, six (6) advisory committees were formed:
Drug and Violent Crime, Juvenile Crime, Offender Services, Victims of Crime,
Community Capacity Building, and Information Systems and Technology. These
committees were convened several times to refine issues and develop the strategic
plans articulated in this document.
OVERARCHING NEEDS
The advisory committees identified twenty-one priority issues for the State, set
dozens of meaningful goals and objectives for each, and recommended over 200
specific action plans to address them. The committee reports are presented in Part
III of the plan.
The priority issues identified by the committees point to critical needs for the
State in five overarching areas: Information, Collaboration, Utilization of
Resources, Services, and Accountability.
1. INFORMATION
Three types of information needs are paramount. Basic contextual information
about offenders, victims and reported crimes is not readily available both because
it is not currently gathered in a systematic way on a statewide basis and because it
resides in a myriad of local information systems that cannot easily communicate
with one another. There is also a paucity of meaningful information, which is
descriptive of the needs of offenders, victims, and criminal justice system
personnel and their allies. The absence of standardized contextual information
exacerbates this situation making the identification of needs, gaps in service
delivery, and sound planning difficult at best. Finally, existing performance

1

 State Criminal Justice Plan

information is wanting. Our ability to effectively analyze the criminal justice
system's response to crime and delinquency in this State is undermined by the fact
that information systems are not integrated at the state level. Consequently,
offenders cannot be "tracked" between arrest, charging, court disposition, and
sentencing stages. Also, we do not make great use of performance data from
prevention, intervention, or suppression programs around the State.
The advisory committees convened by the Authority identified five (5) specific
information issues, which are discussed at length in the body of this plan.
The State of Illinois lacks critical information about juvenile offenders and
the juvenile justice system. A lack of case-level information and little
information sharing between agencies, impede efforts to coordinate juvenile
justice services and to make informed, appropriate decisions regarding “at-risk”
youth. The sharing of information would allow treatment providers to more
efficiently determine the level and type of services needed by avoiding
redundancy of service and conflicts in treatment approaches. It would eliminate
the need for multiple agencies serving a single juvenile to collect the same
information, and ensure that children do not fall through the gaps in service
delivery systems. To address this issue, the plan calls for the State to have high
quality data about juvenile offenders that allows for informed decision making at
the individual case level, as well as informed juvenile justice laws and policies.
Further, it recommends that a centralized and integrated reporting system be
created and maintained, which links juvenile justice agencies, schools, and
treatment providers, and uses a common language. The plan also recommends
that the State enhance the facilitation and exchange of information while
safeguarding privacy rights consistent with the early intervention and communitybased prevention objectives in the Illinois Juvenile Justice Reform Act.
The State can learn more about the needs of victims and the impact of
current efforts through additional data and enhanced data collection efforts.
The plan identifies the critical need to improve the State's information about
crime victims and their victimization experience. It calls for enhancements in the
Illinois State Police's uniform crime reporting (UCR) program to capture more
victim and incident information; the creation of a statewide crime victimization
survey; and the collection and sharing of complete and accurate information about
criminal case decisions.
Information must be disseminated to community stakeholders as a tool for
mobilization. The plan recommends that a body of knowledge examining
community capacity building be developed and disseminated to communities.
There would be great benefit to the State from the development of a central
repository addressing capacity building efforts. This compilation of materials
would include a directory of Illinois initiatives, and national and international
efforts. The library would be used as a foundation for supporting the goals
relevant to community capacity building, and by the justice community as they

2

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

help carry out such initiatives. Communities should have access to more accurate
information in order to understand public safety issues relevant to them. The plan
notes that information sharing and dissemination should be at the core of
community mobilization. The criminal justice system should be responsible for
“packaging” and distributing information to communities so that they understand
issues and problems relevant to them.
The State of Illinois lacks a coordinated criminal justice information-sharing
scheme. While there are shared systems in Illinois, including a statewide criminal
history system, these systems are not significantly integrated with the courts,
prosecution or law enforcement, though some electronic arrest and disposition
reporting is taking place. The current investment in integrated justice information
systems in Illinois has been primarily at the municipal level. Illinois is far behind
many other states in its efforts toward integration of justice information systems.
Over the years, Illinois criminal justice agencies, at both the local and state levels,
have invested in technologies that are proprietary and not easily integrated, with
little regard for standards or concern for data sharing. Agencies responsible for
the administration of criminal justice in Illinois have focused almost exclusively
on the operational needs of their own organizations. The result is that criminal
justice information is fragmented and frequently inaccurate, information
processing is less efficient than it could be, and criminal justice decision-making
is much less informed than it is in some other states. The plan calls for the State to
create an Integrated Statewide Justice Information Network to ensure that all
public, private, and individual stakeholders have accurate, timely, and easily
accessible information that they need, when and where they need it, to administer
justice and enhance the safety and well-being of the people of Illinois. Further, it
recommends that a consortium of state and local criminal justice agencies be
created, that will foster an information technology environment which facilitates
timely communication of critical justice events, adoption of information
technology standards, and efficiencies within the criminal justice enterprise in
Illinois. Finally, the plan recommends that the statewide network:
(1)

Captures data at the originating point and not require re-entry by other
criminal justice agencies as cases progress through the criminal justice
process;

(2)

Captures data once but reuses it many times, creating operational
efficiencies while reducing opportunities for data entry errors that
compound over time as the same information is entered successively by
multiple agencies;

(3)

Is driven by and supports the operational needs of participating agencies,
and connects existing individual agency case and records tracking systems;
and

3

 State Criminal Justice Plan

(4)

Incorporates the flexibility to accommodate changes required by the
evolution of criminal justice processes.

The network should be a fully integrated, networked criminal justice system that
will reduce duplicative efforts and enhance information accuracy, and improve
the completeness and accuracy of criminal justice-related information in Illinois.
It must also protect the privacy and civil liberties of the people of Illinois by
implementing proper security and auditing procedures to ensure that only
accurate, appropriate criminal history information is released to authorized
recipients. This network can allow the State to reduce the high cost of criminal
justice information technology to Illinois taxpayers through the elimination of
redundancies, exploitation of economies of scale and group purchasing, and the
aggressive pursuit of federal funding and other types of funding assistance.
There is a critical need to gather, analyze and preserve digital evidence.
Cybercrime includes a number of offenses, ranging from the unauthorized use of
a computer, to releasing a malicious computer program, to cyber stalking. Modern
technology has also eased the process of committing crimes such as
embezzlement, identity theft, pornography, extortion, larceny, and fraud.
Anecdotal data suggests the volume of such crime is significant. The need to
gather, analyze and preserve digital evidence is at an all-time high. At present,
there is an extreme shortage of qualified forensic computer labs and examiners,
and local jurisdictions often lack the knowledge and expertise necessary for
handling technology-related crimes. The plan calls for the State to establish a
state-level capability for handling digital evidence collection and analysis. It
recommends the creation of a state-run computer forensics lab. It also suggests
that uniform standards and procedures for handling computer-related evidence be
established.
2. COLLABORATION
There is near universal recognition that collaborative planning must continue if
we are to effectively deal with offender and victim needs. Collaboration must
take place within the justice system itself as well as with community residents and
with service providers. Multidisciplinary meetings, joint planning conferences
and forums, which facilitate meaningful information sharing and discussion, must
continue at state, regional and local levels. The advisory committees identified
five (5) specific collaboration issues in the plan.
The criminal justice system must recognize the importance of collaborations
and information sharing as they pertain to the reduction of drug and violent
crime. A great deal of discussion took place relative to the critical role
collaboration and information sharing play in law enforcement efforts and other
efforts to combat drug crime and violence. The State needs to encourage better
partnerships between criminal justice agencies and “the community,” including
faith-based organizations, treatment providers, educators, and other social service

4

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

providers, particularly with respect to prevention efforts. The plan recommends
that the State of Illinois increase the ability of the criminal justice system,
community, and other partners to more effectively reduce drug and violent crime.
The plan also calls for continued support and operation of Illinois’ multijurisdictional drug and violent crime enforcement units to maintain the ability of
the system to identify, apprehend, and prosecute offenders. Further, the plan
recommends increased communication and collaboration between local, state, and
Federal agencies to ensure that the most serious offenders can be identified,
incarcerated or monitored appropriately. The criminal justice system must
effectively identify and target the most serious, repeat and dangerous offenders.
The State also needs to increase the utilization of firearm tracing technology, and
the investigatory and prosecution efforts associated with gun-related cases, to
better impact the illegal firearm markets throughout Illinois.

The State should decentralize funding for juvenile justice projects
and encourage collaboration. The members of the Advisory
Committee identified the need for the State to encourage the juvenile
justice and service delivery systems to examine funding
collaboratively instead of individually, with greater involvement of
local entities. They recommended local agencies and programs pool
their resources to be as effective as possible and get the most benefit
from funding sources. The plan calls for state agencies to coordinate
their efforts in terms of programming efforts in criminal and juvenile
justice, in crime prevention, and in the provision of treatment services.
The cohesion and communication among criminal justice agencies must be
improved. An important problem identified in the plan is the lack of cohesion
and communication among criminal justice agencies. All criminal justice entities
need to act as part of a system, rethinking the role each plays and developing
strategies to best effect needed change and maximize limited resources. This
evolving partnership of agencies must understand its power to help offenders
change and its responsibility to provide them access to the services that will
facilitate that change. The plan calls for the building of effective partnerships
among stakeholders to create a dialogue involving criminal justice professionals,
service providers, researchers, community leaders, and members of the faith and
medical communities, to foster collaboration and develop a common goal(s). The
State needs to identify and address barriers to information sharing among partners
and potential participants. The plan also calls for the implementation of ongoing
evaluation of the collaboration and training partners to equip them for full
participation.
Criminal justice system personnel and victim service providers can improve
their response to victims by improving collaboration. True collaboration is
seen as the key to addressing many of the critical issues identified in the planning

5

 State Criminal Justice Plan

process. Collaboration allows limited resources to be used more effectively by
minimizing any duplication of efforts. Those in leadership positions must make
the commitment to improving the system's response to victims and must reinforce
this priority through their protocols, actions, and words. The plan identifies the
need to increase and improve collaboration among criminal justice personnel and
other professionals who work with victims to minimize the impact of
victimization. It calls for the identification and implementation of ways for all
criminal justice and victim service professionals to gain an increased
understanding of other agencies’ goals and perspectives. The plan calls for action
to promote commitment and collaboration from top-level agency employees.
The plan recommends that training be developed on how to effectively
collaborate, and calls for the development of policies of collaboration that include
all levels of personnel within agencies.
Including the community as a key stakeholder challenges the traditional
thinking about how the criminal justice system functions. Stakeholders need
training that achieves agreement on the concepts of community capacity
building, and teaches stakeholders how to partner to develop solutions to
public safety issues. There is a need to utilize training and technical assistance
to promote the philosophy of community capacity building (CCB). It is suggested
that a “toolbox” be developed that would include orientation and educational
resources delineating the components and concepts of CCB, promoting the notion
of shared responsibility, and defining the roles and responsibilities of
stakeholders. In addition, the toolbox would include instruments to be used by
communities for assessment, planning, and evaluation. The availability of
technical assistance and planning and assessment tools would help communities
identify local problems, assess capacity, and evaluate the impact of solutions.
The plan recommends that stakeholders be educated on their ability and
responsibility to foster community capacity building. Further, it suggests an
orientation be provided to stakeholders that will support a coordinated and
collective approach to CCB. The plan calls for the provision of technical
assistance to communities so that they have the capacity to identify problems and
develop solutions. It is also important that information be disseminated to
stakeholders as a tool for mobilization.
3. UTILIZATION OF RESOURCES
The State must make more effective use of personnel and programs. The "best
use" concept includes making more effective use of research findings in
identifying issues and trends, planning programmatic responses and evaluating
impact. Strategies should be empirically based and reflect sound theoretical
underpinnings. Program evaluation findings need to be integrated more fully into
new program development efforts, and research must be synthesized for key
decision-makers. The State must also make the best use of the latest technologies
for continuously improving the quality of information sharing, communications,
investigative support, and forensic science services. The State must keep pace

6

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

with cutting edge research and development in these areas. There is also
consensus on the continual need for effective and thoughtful training and, to the
maximum extent feasible, the need for this training to be cross-disciplinary.
Traditional boundaries between criminal justice agencies, victim service
providers and other entities must be overcome and the sharing of information
should be encouraged within appropriate privacy restrictions. The advisory
committees identified four (4) specific "best practices" issues in the plan.
The criminal justice system must recognize the differences in needs and
resources for the various regions of the state. The State must increase the
ability of rural jurisdictions throughout Illinois to effectively respond to and
address substance abuse and violence. Toward this end, the plan calls for the
State to ensure that appropriate investigatory, court, correctional and treatment
services are available to offenders throughout Illinois.
The State of Illinois must develop more effective policies and programs to
identify and deal with drug and violent crime offenders. The plan calls for the
State to work toward the development of information-based perceptions, policies
and programs. It recommends that gaps in knowledge affecting offender services
in Illinois be identified and addressed. The plan calls for information on program
effectiveness and best practices to be disseminated to stakeholders, policy makers
and the public. The State must also enhance the capacity of agencies to evaluate
the impact of services and interventions. The plan recommends that the State
increase the ability of the criminal justice system to: 1) effectively identify and
verify the risks and needs of drug and violent crime offenders, and 2) enhance
treatment capacity. It calls for the State to ensure that: treatment services are
available at all appropriate times in the offender’s criminal career; and that
treatment programs are responsive to the needs of the criminal justice system by
involving criminal justice practitioners in the development of treatment policy
and the assessment of quality programs. Steps must be taken also to ensure the
State's criminal justice system has sufficient resources, including technology and
personnel, to effectively and efficiently monitor offenders under correctional
supervision.
Training can be improved to enhance the quality of service provided to
victims by criminal justice personnel and victim service providers. Additional
training is necessary for all persons in the criminal justice system and for victim
service providers. Further, training for all entities should incorporate a victim
focus in the training curriculum. Such training is necessary in order to treat
victims with sensitivity and compassion, and to insure their rights are being met.
Training is a priority in all areas of the system. The plan calls for the State to
improve and expand training to all criminal justice professionals that work with
victims. It suggests that training for criminal justice professionals be developed or
revised to include a victim perspective and ensure that training is tailored to the
context of the community and its population. This training should be provided for
new professionals as well as experienced professionals to improve their response
7

 State Criminal Justice Plan

to victims.
Additionally, multidisciplinary training for criminal justice
professionals should be developed to help them understand each other's roles and
responsibilities as they pertain to victims.
The State must make expanded use of current and new forensic science
technology. There are significant problems involving the use of forensic science
technology in Illinois. The state faces an ongoing challenge to provide assistance
in the collection and analysis of physical evidence. Innovative programs require
expansion to address issues of violence. Partnerships between law enforcement
agencies need to be continued and augmented to improve efficiency and
effectiveness, and to enhance coordination and communication toward this end
goal.
4. SERVICES
Significant service needs have been identified in three principal areas: adult
offender treatment, crime victims, and juveniles. Treatment services for drug
offenders, sex offenders and domestic violence offenders must be strengthened.
The system is increasingly identifying offenders with multiple service needs
including dual mental health diagnoses, physical health problems and other
significant issues. The system's ability to assess these needs and its capacity to
deal with such issues must be improved. Similarly, there is increasing recognition
that crime victims present multiple service needs as do significant others in their
lives including children exposed to domestic violence. There are also significant
service needs around juveniles. Treatment strategies must be family centered.
We must promote multi-modal strategies that include, for example, family therapy
in the offender's home as a condition of probation. Treatment strategies must also
draw on community resources. Schools can help identify and respond to risk
factors associated with future delinquency and can also promote factors which
have been shown to protect children from future delinquency.
The State must recognize the importance of identifying and responding to
risk factors as a delinquency prevention measure, and understand that
failure to do so can increase the likelihood that a juvenile will offend or reoffend. It is extremely important that juvenile justice agencies be made aware of
what risk factors are associated with delinquency and other subsequent problems,
and how to determine if a child is experiencing them. It is also important for
school personnel, health care workers, and others who deal with youth to be able
to identify these problems and intervene prior to criminal justice system
involvement. In particular, there is a need to use the resources of educational
institutions more efficiently in terms of their role in early identification. Schools
need to provide not only traditional academic classes, but also character
development, mediation skills, parenting skills (both to teens and to their parents),
and anti-gang programs, and other programs that enhance protective factors
serving to mitigate risk. The plan recommends that: (1) the State continue to
emphasize the importance of identifying and addressing factors that may lead to

8

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

delinquency prior to a youth's involvement in the juvenile justice system; (2) that
practical information be provided to all those who deal with youth on how to
recognize risk factors and how to respond to them in an effective way; and (3)
that better use be made of the educational system's resources in the prevention of
delinquency. Problem behaviors should be addressed before juveniles become
entrenched in the juvenile justice system. The State needs to develop a treatment
strategy that centers on the family.
The State's handling of juveniles with mental health needs must be
improved. Youth with mental health and other special needs often come into the
juvenile justice system because there is nowhere else for them to go, even though
they would be better served by other systems. Advisory committee members felt
that decisions should be made based on which system is best equipped to help the
youth rather than which system is the most convenient in which to place the
youth. The plan calls for the State to serve juveniles with mental health and other
special needs in the most appropriate system given their specific needs. Further,
the State should seek alternative treatment approaches for special needs youth,
centering treatment around the family whenever possible. Also, programs that
address problem behaviors of special populations should be made accessible on
an equal basis. The plan also recommends that adequate resources be identified
for community-level responses, including affordable treatment programs; that the
State enhance follow-up capability for juveniles who have completed treatment
programs; and that more regular, comprehensive, and collaborative assessments
of youth within the juvenile justice system be made, especially regarding past and
present risk factors and special needs.
The State's current service delivery systems for juveniles are fragmented.
The plan identifies a need for a collaborative and multi-disciplinary response to
troubled youth in response to the problem of different agencies responding to
various components of a youth’s problem behavior or delinquency, without
sufficient coordination in the development of a treatment plan or in the actual
delivery of services. Advisory committee members discussed the problems
associated with fragmentation of service delivery. Specifically, many programs do
not know what treatments or interventions other programs are offering, and there
is often duplication of services and large gaps in other services. The committee
felt that a continuum of services is more cost-effective than a piecemeal approach,
and would ensure fewer gaps in services and fewer turf battles between agencies.
The plan calls for the State to create partnerships between agencies that deal with
juveniles (criminal justice, education, mental health, social services, faith-based
institutions, neighborhood groups), and to support, encourage, and market multidisciplinary responses by juvenile agencies, and pooling of resources. Advisory
committee members felt the juvenile justice process should include greater
community involvement and recommended the State support and encourage
community input on program planning and allocation of local resources.

9

 State Criminal Justice Plan

The State lacks a continuum of offender services. Recidivism for adult
offenders can, in part, be linked to low levels of education, lack of work
experience and employment opportunities, history of substance abuse, and a
number of other dysfunctions that hinder an inmate’s ability to make an incident
free adjustment to the community. Current service delivery programs for
offenders are fragmented. The criminal justice system partner agencies must
work with service and treatment providers to build a continuum of services. The
plan calls for the State of Illinois to close the gap between offender needs and
available services. Further, the State should standardize the implementation of
accurate and comprehensive assessment of offender risk, need and responsivity.
A continuum of interventions must be available to ensure that all components of
the criminal justice system maximize opportunities for rehabilitation and
reintegration of offenders into the community. The plan recommends that the
State expand offender access to competent, effective, and comprehensive
rehabilitative services, and expand service capacity to meet the needs of all
offenders.
The State must minimize the impact of victimization by ensuring the
minimum provision of basic services to all victims of crime. The plan
identifies the need to strengthen and expand services to victims of crime to
minimize the impact of victimization. A number of barriers to services are
identified including the lack of childcare services for children of victims receiving
services; gender difference between victim/service provider for crimes of a
sensitive nature; a lack of housing options for domestic violence victims;
familiarity of residents in rural areas and the lack of transportation in these areas;
and the fact that some victims do not desire services from the criminal justice
system. The plan calls for the State to strengthen and expand basic services to
victims of crime, and develop additional services to minimize the impact of
victimization. It also calls for action to ensure that the basic service needs of
victims of crime are being met. The plan recommends that the most effective
services be identified and strengthened. Priorities for specialized services should
be developed only after basic services are fully sufficient. The plan suggests that
non-traditional resources be identified to augment existing ones. The plan also
urges that funding agencies work together to identify any duplication of efforts
and gaps in services and to also use the funds in ways so they complement each
other.
5. ACCOUNTABILITY
There remains concern that accountability be a central principle in the justice
system. First, the system must continually ensure that offenders are held
accountable for their actions. Second, we must make sure that entity's are held
accountable for their programmatic efforts to respond to critical issues and needs.
Lastly, the system must be continually held accountable for its actions to citizens,
particularly to crime victims. The advisory committees identified two (2) specific
accountability issues in the plan.

10

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

The Illinois criminal justice system should be held more accountable to crime
victims. The criminal justice system needs to be more accountable to victims and
the community at large. Three primary issues were identified: the lack of
awareness of victims’ rights by criminal justice professionals and victims
themselves, the lack of recourse for victims who believe their rights have been
violated, and the need to hold the system accountable for its actions. The plan
calls for the criminal justice system to be held more accountable to crime victims
and the community at large. It identifies the need to collect data related to
decisions made at both the law enforcement and prosecution levels and for the
development of a strategy to ensure victims are informed of available services and
educated about their rights. There is also a continuing need to educate the public
and criminal justice professionals about victims’ rights and the availability of
victim services. Finally, the plan calls for the establishment of a system of
recourse for victims who feel their rights have been violated.
There needs to be a commitment on the part of Illinois' justice system
stakeholders to change. The identification of a statewide approach to public
problem solving involving the community will support change. There is a need
for criminal justice agencies in this State to recognize the community as a critical
partner in identifying problems and developing solutions related to public safety.
While several agencies throughout Illinois are already working closely with the
community, it is important for all criminal justice agencies statewide to think
more broadly to include the community as an equal partner. Non-traditional
partnerships should be formed with groups such as residents, community groups,
faith leaders, schools, social service providers, and the media. These entities
should become permanent partners in the actions, policies, and philosophies of
the criminal justice system. In addition, involving the community as a stakeholder
will challenge traditional thinking about how the criminal justice system operates,
and agencies that embrace the philosophy may have to commit to “systems
change.” The plan identifies several components of successful community
capacity building efforts:
•

Assessing the Community. The assessment of a community includes
collecting and analyzing data, identifying leadership, determining available
resources, and examining community assets.

•

Community Mobilization. Mobilization can occur through education,
communication, and evidence that community participation will make a
difference. Mobilization can begin when a community is provided with
information in a way that is valuable and meaningful to it. It is necessary to
inform the community and then get its input. The community must also be
active in making choices because it is imperative that a community buys into
proposed solutions. Further, the most affected people should lead the
mobilization.

11

 State Criminal Justice Plan

•

Continued Outreach. Once solutions have been identified and programs have
been implemented, key stakeholders must continue to have a presence in the
community.

•

Ongoing Assessment. Communities, as well as cooperating agencies, need to
re-evaluate the community, re-assess the composition of an ever-changing
population, observe who the program is reaching and who is not being helped,
determine whether displacement is occurring, and revisit solutions. The
community must engage in an ongoing self-assessment of the problems and
solutions.

•

Evaluation. Formal evaluation should be built into initiatives to assess
whether programs have the intended effect.

•

Coordinated System Response. Criminal justice agencies have a
responsibility to make sure their responses enhance, not duplicate, existing
efforts. Redundancy of efforts on the community level may create confusion
and frustration.

•

Training. Training, education and technical assistance are necessary for all of
the stakeholders. Training will enhance stakeholders' ability and willingness
to work collectively. Education and technical assistance can also teach
communities how to play an integral part in planning and assessment.

The plan recommends that the Authority assume a leadership role in promoting
the philosophy of community capacity building, and establish goals addressing
CCB in a statewide criminal justice planning document. Further, the plan
recommends that criminal justice agencies be encouraged to develop
organizational philosophies that include the community as a stakeholder. It is also
recommended that work continue toward the identification of a coordinated
process that supports collaborative initiatives and problem solving solutions
between stakeholders. Finally, the plan also suggests that an approach to public
problem solving be developed that engages community stakeholders in a mutually
beneficial inductive process.
CONCLUSION
The plan identifies twenty-one criminal justice priority issues for the State of
Illinois. Dozens of specific goals and objectives are set for each, and
recommended action steps in the areas of research and evaluation, funding,
legislation, policy and other strategic initiatives are articulated. This plan is
intended to provide the Authority with a contextual backdrop for its deliberations
on how its resources should be focused. It is hoped that all allied entities in the
justice system and those serving crime victims and offenders will find the plan
helpful for setting strategic priorities as well.

12

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

NEXT SECTIONS
Part II of the plan describes the comprehensive planning process initiated by the
Authority, which resulted in the development of the plan.
Part III of this document provides expanded discussion on each of the priority
issues, goals and objectives, and makes specific and detailed recommendations
regarding action steps in the areas of further research, legislation, and policy
initiatives. These represent the input of the six (6) advisory committees.
Appendices to the document include references for works cited, background
information on the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority including a
detailed discussion of its administration of federal and state grant funds, and
listings of the participants in the planning process.

13

 State Criminal Justice Plan

II.

THE PLANNING PROCESS

Background

T

he Authority charged its staff to develop a new comprehensive planning
process to guide the administration of federal grant funds. The project,
which was launched under the auspices of the Authority's Planning and
Research Committee, resulted in this statewide plan. The plan identifies key
priority issues, goals, objectives, and funding strategies, and also defines action
steps necessary to achieve the goals and objectives in the areas of research,
policy, and legislation.
Criminal Justice Planning Assembly
Early on, the Committee decided that a highlight of this strategic planning project
would be a Criminal Justice Planning Assembly. The goals of the initial
Assembly were:

•

to identify and describe, using data, current research findings and
the experiences of expert practitioners, the most pressing issues presently
facing the Illinois criminal justice system;

•

to prioritize these issues; and

•

to set statewide goals for each of the priority issues.

The first Assembly was held on June 8 and 9, 2000 at the Oak Brook Marriott in
Oak Brook, Illinois.
Ad Hoc Advisory Committee
The Planning and Research Committee instructed staff to form an ad hoc advisory
committee to help plan the Assembly. This steering group was convened three
times between March and May, 2000, and offered much valuable advice on
aspects of the event including invitee identification, background material, preAssembly research and data collection, the Assembly agenda and program,
potential keynote speakers, and other matters. The ad hoc advisory committee, in
short, was instrumental to the organization and conduct of the Assembly.
About 200 policy-makers, practitioners, service providers, researchers, citizens,
and government officials were invited to participate in the Assembly. One
hundred forty-three persons agreed to attend and 135 actually attended, not
including staff.

14

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Prior to attending the Assembly, invitees received a workbook prepared by
Authority staff with the input of the ad hoc advisory committee. The workbook
contained a series of background papers designed to help invitees identify issues
and problems. The material in the workbook was intended to present a broad
statistical overview of crime, offenders, victims, and system responses by
exploring several questions:
-

What do we know about crime and offenders? Who are they and
what have they done?
What needs do offenders bring to "the system"?
What services are available to address offender needs and
problems?
What happens to offenders in the system?
What do we know about crime victims? Who are they?
What services are available to address crime victim needs?
What steps are being taken to prevent or reduce crime?
What resources are available to respond to crime problems?

Based on the ad hoc advisory committee's review of the background papers at
several meetings, the materials were revised and modified. Relevant background
information was also summarized in the workbooks for discussion groups
convened at the Assembly. Recipients of the workbooks were asked to consider
several questions in preparation for the Assembly:
-

What are the specific implications of the findings in the
background papers for the invitee's agency?
What additional issues/areas need further discussion or review?
What are the implications for available federal and state grant
funds? Where are additional resources needed?
What goals/objectives for the state are recommended?

Participants in the Assembly articulated how issues discussed in the background
paper impact different segments of the justice system, their impact in different
geographic areas of the state, and the resources available (and/or needed) to
address them.
Pre-Assembly Survey
All persons invited to the Criminal Justice Planning Assembly were asked to
complete a survey requesting them to identify critical issues in each of six broad
topic areas: (1) drug and violent crime; (2) juvenile crime; (3) victims of violent
crime; (4) offender services; (5) community capacity building; and (6)
information systems and technology. Information compiled from this survey was
used to frame discussion questions for the groups convened at the Assembly.

15

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Discussion Groups
Assembly discussions groups, as expected, raised many additional issues and
questions, requiring further data collection, analysis and discussion. As a
consequence, several post-Assembly advisory committees were formed and
convened to:
-

Follow up on areas identified as needing further inquiry;

-

Review and discuss staff analyses of updated data, recent research
and/or evaluation findings, current and past funding priorities, and
other relevant information; and

-

Consider additional public and professional input on the plan.

These committees each prepared reports, which form the bulk of this plan. The six
(6) advisory committees included:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Drug and Violent Crime
Victims of Crime
Offender Services
Juvenile Crime
Community Capacity Building
Information Systems and Technology

Professional Associations
In August of 2000, the Authority also convened a meeting of several professional
associations to discuss and comment on the planning process, and the issues,
goals, objectives, and action steps under development.
The following
associations were invited to participate in this discussion:
-

Illinois Probation and Court Services Association
Illinois Association of Chiefs of Police
Illinois Sheriff's Association
Illinois State's Attorneys Association
Illinois Public Defenders Association
Illinois Circuit Court Clerks Association
Illinois Juvenile Officers Association
Illinois Corrections Association
Illinois Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse Professional Certification
Association
Illinois MEG and Task Force Directors Association

16

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Governor Ryan's Summit on Gangs, Guns and Drugs
Governor George H. Ryan convened a Summit on Gangs, Guns and Drugs on
September 19, 2000, at McCormick Place in Chicago. Over 400 people took part
in the event including state and local governmental officials, mayors, legislators,
police chiefs, civic, business and community leaders, state's attorneys, circuit
court clerks, judges, public defenders, neighborhood organizers and others from
all areas of Illinois. The Summit was convened for two principal purposes:
(1)

To identify and affirm successful approaches to gangs, guns and drugs
which are presently in place; and

(2)

To propose additional programs, policies or legislation which will
improve Illinois' efforts to address problems associated with gangs, guns
and drugs.

Governor Ryan addressed the opening plenary session by describing his
administration's accomplishments in the areas of crime and criminal justice and
reaffirming his commitment to ensure that crime problems are effectively and
fairly addressed. The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority presented a
comprehensive statistical portrait on crime and criminal justice trends in Illinois.
Following the plenary session, attendees were divided into three groups for panel
presentations focusing on gangs, guns and drugs which were coordinated by the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, the Illinois Violence Prevention
Authority, and the Illinois State Police. The panels included several topic expert
presenters and discussants.
The three larger groups were broken into three workgroups to focus specifically
on prevention, intervention and suppression. Staff from a number of state
agencies facilitated these discussion groups which were focused on addressing
four specific questions:
(1)

What is the state doing right and why?

(2)

What could be done better and why?

(3)

What else could/should be done in the areas of policy, program and
legislation and why?

(4)

Should special consideration be given to urban, suburban or rural areas of
the state? If so, what and why?

The discussion groups developed responses to these questions over a two and
one-half hour period after which a final plenary session was convened and
17

 State Criminal Justice Plan

discussion group reports were presented. Some of this information was also
utilized in the development of this plan.
Other Input
Authority staff have also worked to ensure that information and recommendations
are shared between the Authority's planning activities and other similar efforts
underway in the State, including those undertaken by other state and local
governmental agencies as well as private organizations. Information on the
planning process has been widely shared within the agencies represented in the
various advisory committees as well.
Next Steps
Input derived from of all of these groups and activities has been taken into
consideration in the development of this plan. The Authority's Budget Committee
will be charged with designating implementing agencies for programs consistent
with the funding priorities outlined in plan; action steps relating to the Authority's
research and evaluation agenda will be overseen by the Planning and Research
Committee; legislative initiatives will be considered by the Authority's
Legislation and Regulations Committee; and, policy action steps will be
considered by the Authority and staff will continue collaborative planning and
coordination activities initiated in this effort.
Through the auspices of its Planning and Research Committee, the Authority will
convene subsequent assemblies to review the work of the advisory committees
and to review performance relative to the goals, objectives, and action steps
articulated in the plan. Based on its consideration of the input of staff, public
review and comment, and these ad hoc working groups, the Planning and
Research Committee will oversee the refinement of the state plan for presentation
and adoption by the full Authority.
The Criminal Justice Plan for the State of Illinois serves as a guide for ongoing
policy development, resource allocation and administrative and legislative
initiatives that is based on empirical data, research and expert opinion, and is the
product of a collaborative planning process.

18

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

III. THE STATE CRIMINAL JUSTICE PLAN

T

he Authority's planning process was guided by a tremendous amount of
research, data collection, professional input and consultation, highlighted
by a two-day Criminal Justice Planning Assembly held in June, 2000 in
which nearly 150 policymakers, service providers, researchers, private citizens,
and government officials participated. Following the Assembly, six (6) advisory
committees were formed and were convened several times to refine issues and
develop the strategic plans articulated in this document. This section of the State
Criminal Justice Plan is organized around the reports of these advisory
committees:
1.

Drug and Violent Crime

2.

Juvenile Crime

3.

Offender Services

4.

Victims of Violent Crime

5.

Community Capacity Building

6.

Information Systems and Technology

Each section summarizes advisory committee discussion, information derived
from data analyses, literature reviews and written input. Priority issues have been
identified, and goals and objectives for each are recommended. Finally, specific
action steps in the areas of further research, legislation, policy and other areas are
presented.

19

 State Criminal Justice Plan

DRUG AND VIOLENT CRIME

T

he priority issues discussed in this section cover a variety of topics ranging
from drug use and availability, to the differences in offenders violent in
nature versus offenders committing crimes of passion or for financial gain.
The priority issues also include discussion about identifying factors that
precipitate violence and drug use, the normalization of violence and drug use in
our society, and the need to increase early intervention and prevention efforts.
The need to continue attacking the drug and violent crime problem from a multifaceted approach is also emphasized. Advisory committee participants and data
supported collaborative efforts, including metropolitan enforcement groups and
task forces, as tools for combating drug and violent crime. These initiatives have
reinforced the importance of sharing information among criminal justice agencies,
as well as with communities where crime is occurring. Finally, these priority
issues acknowledge the importance of reducing the recidivism of drug and violent
crime offenders by preparing them for reintegration into the community.
Priority Issue 1
The criminal justice system must recognize the importance of
collaborations and information sharing as they pertain to the
reduction of drug and violent crime.
Discussions in the Drug and Violent Crime Advisory Committee focused on the
tools and partnerships the criminal justice system must employ to effectively
reduce and control drug and violent crime. While violent crime offenses and rates
have been decreasing since 1994, they remain higher than levels seen in the early
1980s. Reported violent Index offenses numbered 100,244 in 1998 (Figure 1),
with a rate of 832 per 100,000 population. Conversely, reported offenses in 1982
were less than half the number reported in 1998, with 51,057 reported violent
Index offenses in 1982 and a rate of 446 per 100,000. Despite the recent decreases
in violent offenses, arrests for drug offenses are at their highest level to date,
topping 107,145 in 1998. It is clear that arrests and enforcement alone will not
deter drug use and violent crime as long as drug use is perceived as "cool" and
violence continues to be a normal part of many communities.
It was recognized that law enforcement efforts, particularly multi-jurisdiction
efforts, are necessary to control crime and impact the supply and demand for
drugs. The Advisory Committee noted that there is an infinite supply of people
willing to sell drugs and as soon as an arrest is made, a replacement dealer will
step in. There is also a strong demand for drugs, and therefore, a profit to be made
selling them. The participants in the Advisory committee and pre-Assembly

20

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

survey results indicate that the State needs to continue current efforts that attack
drug offenses from all levels. It is necessary to support a multifaceted approach,
which makes local agencies responsible for targeting street-level sellers and
possessors, metropolitan enforcement groups (MEGs) and task forces responsible
for targeting mid-level sellers and dealers, and Federal agencies responsible for
targeting high-level traffickers.
Although the need varies across the State, there was also a perceived need to
Figure 1

Violent Index Offenses Reported in
Illinois, 1982 - 1998
140,000
120,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0
1982

1984

1986

1988

1990

Year

1992

1994

1996

1998

So urce: Illino is State P o lice

engage the support of Federal agencies to effectively share information and
prosecute certain cases. Participants in the Governor's Gangs, Guns and Drugs
Summit also expressed the need to increase the collection and dissemination of
information regarding all facets of the criminal enterprise. Information gathered
from the across the entire spectrum of criminal justice agencies can yield efficient
use of available resources for a rapid and effective response to criminal activity.
Those who enforce drug laws as part of MEGs or task forces stated that many of
the people they apprehend are the most serious dealers because selling drugs is
their livelihood. Survey results show that it is important to distinguish between
drug addicts (those who use drugs and may commit other offenses while under
their influence) and those who sell drugs and commit offenses to guard their
market. For the latter offenders, it was felt that sanctions should be severe
because these dealers are not deterred by short prison sentences. It was noted,
however, that the corrections system might not have the capacity to deal with long
sentences for lower-level drug law violators. Therefore, it is necessary to identify

21

 State Criminal Justice Plan

and target enforcement efforts and sanctions to affect the most serious type of
offender. The Advisory Committee discussed research from the Authority that
shows many Class 4 felony offenders in IDOC, which are primarily drug
offenders, are indeed an appropriate population to have in prison. This population
typically has a number of prior offenses, and many of them are violent in nature.
However, many committee members felt that incarceration is not the answer for
all offenders and diversionary programs, such as work alternative programs, are
best for low-risk offenders.
Regarding sentences and sanctions for violent offenders, the committee also noted
that many non-violent offenses and property offenses are classified as higher level
felonies than some violent offenses, particularly domestic violence offenses.
During discussions, participants also expressed concern that judges may have too
much discretion in sentencing offenders. Revising the Criminal Code was
acknowledged as a possible solution for balancing the seriousness of an offense
with the resulting sanction. Again, the issue was raised that they system may not
be able to handle the influx of inmates if mandatory minimums are enforced or
prison terms are increased.
The Advisory Committee felt that offenders really need to be better prepared to
join society through increased education, employment opportunities, and positive
and supportive influences. Offenders returning to the community after serving
time in prison or while on probation need strong support systems to prevent them
from recidivating. While the IDOC Pre-Start program provides pre-release
services and post-release follow-up services for Illinois inmates, the committee
felt that most releasees require a long-term, comprehensive and intensive support
network. This system of aftercare emphasized the role of communities in working
with offenders who return to society.
The Advisory Committee felt that prevention seemed to be the best way to deter
crime, particularly drug-related crime. Participants felt that the system of law
enforcement, prosecution and corrections is working for the most part by making
arrests, enforcing laws and punishing offenders. The prevention aspect, however,
also needs to be addressed by the criminal justice system. The Committee felt
that it is important to pursue efforts that engage the community and other partners
because prevention efforts often fall outside the purview of the criminal justice
system, and law enforcement deals with a small portion of the population in need
of treatment. Many discussants noted that problems with drugs and violence
begin in the family and by the time an offender comes in contact with the criminal
justice system it is really too late. Social agencies that deal with families must be
alert to these risk factors and work on preventative efforts.
Community capacity building was noted as an important tool in efforts to control
crime. There is a clear need to have the community involved, including faith-

22

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

based organizations, treatment, education and other social service providers. The
criminal justice system and its professionals, can take a leadership role in forging
these relationships. The discussion and survey findings pointed out some of the
difficulties in promoting community involvement, including gang intimidation of
the community and a tolerance of drug and violent crime. Discussion groups at
the Gangs, Guns and Drugs Summit noted that communities need to be an equal
partner in identifying problems and developing solutions to public safety issues.
It was also noted that violent crime task forces have been beneficial, and the
success reinforces the importance of collaborating and sharing information to
identify offenders. The notion of task forces was supported by the Authority
evaluation studies of multi-jurisdictional task forces and by experiences of group
participants. Programs that focus on one specific type of violence and enforce a
no-tolerance policy against that violence can reduce not only the targeted activity
but also other criminal activity. Sharing information with partnering agencies,
such as probation, prosecution and law enforcement is necessary to identify the
most serious offenders.
Gun-tracing technology was also cited as a powerful tool used to reduce violence.
Participants indicated that some local law enforcement agencies utilize this
technology through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF),
however, many departments are not aware of the opportunity to access this
technology. The use of gun tracing technology should be encouraged and
available statewide because an immeasurable amount of violence may be
prevented by seizing just one gun or tracing the use of one gun to a crime.
Finally, the Advisory Committee noted differences in the types of violent
offenders. While some offenders are emotional or impassioned when committing
violent offenses, others are simply predatory and violent in nature. Still others
may have been raised in a community or family where violence is a norm. In
conclusion, more information on offenders is necessary to identify factors
contributing to their behavior, and to determine who should be targeted for
treatment. The Advisory Committee reiterated the need for pre-sentence
investigation reports, risk factor assessments, and the sharing of information
between social service providers and the criminal justice systems, particularly for
juveniles.
The following goal, objectives and action steps were established to address drug
and violent crime:
A.

23

Goal: Increase the ability of the criminal justice system, community, and
other partners to more effectively reduce drug and violent crime.

 State Criminal Justice Plan

1.

Objective:
Increase the utilization of firearm tracing technology, and
the investigatory and prosecution efforts associated with gun-related
cases, to better impact the illegal firearm markets throughout Illinois.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Determine whether utilizing firearm tracing technology has an
impact on illegal firearms markets.
b.

Policy Action Steps:

• Increase the information available in the ATF gun-tracing
database by encouraging law enforcement agencies to complete
and submit necessary paperwork for gun-related incidents.

• Make local law enforcement agencies aware of gun tracking
capabilities and encourage them to utilize the available
technology.
2.

Objective:
Continue the support and operation of Illinois’ multijurisdictional drug and violent crime enforcement units to maintain the
ability of the system to identify, approach, and prosecute offenders.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Assess the resources multi-jurisdictional units are expending
on the methamphetamine problem to determine if units need
additional support to address the problem.

• Determine the impact of disposing of hazardous materials from
methamphetamine labs.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Encourage local departments to participate in multijurisdictional drug units by increasing the availability of funds
to support personnel costs.
c.

Policy Action Step:

• Encourage the development of multi-jurisdictional violent
offender task forces.

24

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

3.

Objective:
Increase communication and collaboration between local,
state, and Federal agencies to ensure that the most serious offenders can
be identified, incarcerated or monitored appropriately.
a.

Funding Action Step:

• Seek general revenue funding for diversionary programs for
the less serious offenders.
b.

Policy Action Step:

• Enhance communication between probation and police officers
to ensure awareness of each others' statutory powers.
c.

Legislative Action Step:

• Explore opportunities to modify the Illinois’ Criminal Code in
order to ensure a balance between the seriousness of an offense
and the resulting sanction.
4.

Objective:
offenders.
a.

Identify and target the most serious, repeat and dangerous

Research Action Steps:

• Determine whether it is possible to improve on existing
mechanisms (i.e., most wanted lists, etc.) for targeting these
offenders.

• Analyze pre-sentence investigation reports for violent
offenders and examine risk factors, and communicate these to
the criminal justice system.
5.

Objective:
To forge better partnerships between criminal justice
agencies and “the community,” including religious organizations,
treatment, education, and other social service providers, particularly with
respect to prevention efforts.
a.

25

Research Action Step:

 State Criminal Justice Plan

•
6.

Identify model programs that promote community partnerships.

Objective:
Build partnerships with criminal justice agencies and the
community to address aftercare.
a.

Research Action Step:
•

b.

Funding Action Step:
•

c.

Determine effectiveness of aftercare on recidivism.

Identify funding resources to support community involvement
in reintegrating the offender into the community.

Policy Action Step:
•

Require tracking of clients in aftercare.

Priority Issue 2
The criminal justice system must recognize the differences in
needs and resources for the various regions of the State.
The Drug and Violent Crime Advisory committee also discussed the differences
in crime, resources and responses as they related to rural, suburban and urban
areas of the state. Discussants addressed the differences in the arrests made in
suburban areas and those made in Chicago, as well as a disparity in arrests of
minorities. The circumstances of a crime, such as dealing drugs on a street corner
(which is more likely to happen in inner cities), as opposed to dealing drugs in
someone’s home (perhaps more likely in suburban areas), affects the likelihood of
an arrest being made. In addition, while some may feel that the system targets
minority or low-income areas with enforcement efforts, many communities want
those enforcement efforts there to address violent crime and street corner drug
activity.
Regarding treatment, there are a number of logistical issues involved. The
Advisory Committee mentioned that many offenders fail in treatment because
they lack the transportation needed to participate. Should parole or probation be
revoked because of this? Rural areas especially have problems with having

26

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

appropriate treatment services and transportation for offenders. The group felt
that programs should either provide tokens for public transportation or provide a
mechanism for transportation in rural areas to assure offender access to treatment.
Also, regarding gun ownership, it was pointed out that attitudes toward guns vary
across the state. In many downstate areas, juveniles own firearms for hunting and
sport, and firearm violence is not as prevalent there — however, other forms of
violence are. If a gun is available, it may be used for violence, but if not, another
weapon will be used. The committee also discussed the normalization of violence
in some communities and the media and how it is commonplace now to go
beyond an average use of force in fights and confrontations.

Figure 2

Violent Index Offense Rate in Illinois
by Region, 1988 - 1998
2,000
Cook

1,500
1,000

Urban
Rural

500
Collar

0
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998
Year
Cook

Urban

Collar

Rural

Source: ICJIA Calculation Using Illinois
State Police and U.S. Census Bureau Data

Domestic violence also was discussed, along with its impact on children who
witness it and how it precipitates the cycle of violence. Especially in rural areas, it
may be difficult to contact law enforcement for help in a domestic violence
situation, either because the victim is afraid to let everyone know of her situation
in a small town or police may not take domestic violence offenses seriously. And,
once a victim leaves a domestic violence situation, it may be particularly difficult
in rural areas to reach victim services, find alternative housing, and obtain job
skills to support a family. It may also be easier for an offender to locate a victim
in a rural area.
The nature and volume of crime is different in rural areas versus urban areas
(Figure 2). Attitudes toward gun use and the levels of drug use and violence

27

 State Criminal Justice Plan

differ, although they still remain problems. A solution for one area may not fit for
another. As attitudes toward domestic violence and gun use, and access to
intervention sources vary in different regions of the state, solutions must take
these variations into account to be successful. There needs to be recognition that
while the violent crime in rural communities may be different from that
experienced in large jurisdictions, it needs to be addressed just as much as crime
in urban areas. Due to the lack of resources in rural communities, investigating
and prosecuting violent and serious drug crimes may be more difficult.
Furthermore, violent crime rates in rural areas have surpassed those in the collar
counties surrounding Cook since 1993. State maps that displayed the number of
OASA programs with the number of treatment admissions and drug arrests (as an
indicator of need) show that while those counties with the most arrests and
treatment admissions have a majority of the programs, many rural counties that
indicate a high need for services have few programs. The value of a needs
assessment was discussed to better understand the nature and level of violent
crime and drug use, what resources are currently addressing them and where gaps
are seen. Also, it was felt that state-level policy decisions regarding the criminal
justice system focus on the more populous northern part of Illinois, and
jurisdictions outside of Cook County do not have a voice.
A.

Goal: To increase the ability of rural jurisdictions throughout Illinois to
effectively respond to and address substance abuse and violence.

1.

Objective:
To ensure that appropriate investigatory, court, correctional
and treatment services are available to offenders throughout Illinois.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Identify gaps by assessing the capacity and availability of
resources in local jurisdictions for responding to offenders,
including assessment, monitoring, treatment and sanctions.

• Conduct a needs assessment in rural areas that utilizes
information from the criminal justice system, public health,
and elected officials. This assessment should evaluate the
services available for meeting those problems; services needed
to properly address those problems; and practical issues to be
dealt with – such as public transportation, a limited local tax
base, and absence of treatment providers. Assessment of
available services should cover a wide range of services.

28

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

• Continue to gather information from other agencies on what is
currently available.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify funding for a needs assessments.
c.

Policy Action Step:

• Conduct a routine needs assessment every five years.
• Increase opportunities to gain input from rural jurisdictions on
criminal justice policy, such as convening meetings and
trainings in locations accessible to rural participants.

29

 State Criminal Justice Plan

JUVENILE CRIME

T

he Juvenile Crime Advisory Committee identified several critical issues,
including a lack of information, the need to better understand and utilize
information about factors which may predict future delinquency, how
juveniles with mental health needs are handled, the fragmentation of
current service delivery systems, and the decentralization of funding provided for
the juvenile justice system. Committee members identified several key goals,
objectives and specific action steps to address these issues.

Priority Issue 1
The State of Illinois lacks critical information about juvenile
offenders and the juvenile justice system.
The Juvenile Crime Advisory Committee identified critical information needs in
the following two (2) areas:
(1) individual case-level information on juvenile offenders or those at risk of
offending, which is necessary to support informed case-processing,
placement, and treatment referral decisions; and
(2) aggregate-level statistical information on the characteristics of juveniles at
various stages of juvenile justice processing and those at-risk, to support
research, evaluation and other policy analysis, and program planning efforts.
The Advisory Committee initially discussed the fact that the lack of case-level
information, and the lack of information sharing between agencies, impedes
efforts to coordinate juvenile justice services and to make informed, appropriate
decisions regarding “at-risk” youth. The sharing of information would allow
treatment providers to more efficiently determine the level and type of services
needed by avoiding redundancy of service and conflicts in treatment approaches.
It would eliminate the need for multiple agencies serving a single juvenile to
collect the same information, and ensure that children do not fall through the gaps
in service delivery systems.
For juvenile offenders who are arrested and enter the juvenile justice system,
there is no comprehensive statewide data on each contact with police, the courts,
probation, detention, corrections, and service programs. Although the state’s
criminal history record system represents a mechanism for such information, it
has not yet produced the type of comprehensive criminal history transcript needed
to support detention and placement decisions, juvenile court case dispositions,
and treatment/program referrals. The members discussed the fact that this lack of
information is much more than a technical issue; it strikes at the heart of juvenile
justice policy by challenging laws and practices.

30

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

There were also concerns about confidentiality discussed by the Advisory
Committee. Agencies that exchange juvenile record information must now follow
federal, state, and local statutes concerning the collection, maintenance, and
release of information. Illinois statutes, in particular, have long been grounded on
the philosophy of parens patrie (e.g., the State acting as parent in cases of
delinquency), which carries an overriding concern for the ability of juvenile
offenders to leave their troubled pasts behind them, and not be limited in later
opportunities for schooling, employment, and other normal life activities.
The concern of the committee was that the current confidentiality statutes did not
support the changing nature of juvenile justice under balanced and restorative
justice (BARJ). This philosophy introduces elements of youth accountability and
capacity building, and encourages individualized case decisions that consider the
totality of circumstances surrounding each delinquent offense and offender. These
decisions, as well as prevention efforts directed at “at-risk” youth, are to be
carried out with greater community-based involvement. Sound decision-making is
therefore predicated on the availability of more complete information surrounding
the juvenile justice, mental health, and school history of the youth as well as
family members.
Committee members discussed the fact that aggregate-level data collected from
criminal justice statistical repositories have been insufficient to support most
policy-related research, and state-level planning is undermined by the poor
quality of data that does exist. While local police, courts, probation departments,
and detention centers regularly submit statistics to state agencies, the information
generally provides little detail. This is partly due to the fact that repositories such
as the Illinois State Police's uniform crime reporting (UCR) program and the
Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts (AOIC) court statistics are set up to
capture only basic measures of offenders and case volumes at various stages of
the juvenile justice system. They were not designed to provide data resources to
support policy analysis, program evaluation, and other types of research. State
repository agencies are also reluctant to impose stringent reporting requirements
on local reporting agencies, which could divert them from their primary
operational responsibilities.
There has been a substantial amount of literature relating to the issue, primarily
through the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP). A
recent Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant (JAIBG) Bulletin (JAIBG
Bulletin: Establishing and Maintaining Interagency Information Sharing: March
2000) summarized the issues and described a strategy for implementing an
effective juvenile information-sharing system. The report provides strategies and
sources for the development of information-sharing programs, details the
functional requirements for effective and efficient programs, and identifies policy
concerns and key issues in the implementation and maintenance of informationsharing programs.

31

 State Criminal Justice Plan

The JAIBG Bulletin also contains detailed discussions of several key issues to be
considered by agencies building collaborative information-sharing programs.
These include possible legal restrictions in federal and state laws, the need for an
evaluation system to determine the effectiveness of the information-sharing
program, and potential barriers to successful programs. The report cited several
successful programs of this type and found that program success depended on the
completion of several functional requirements: identifying appropriate partners,
establishing program goals, focusing on intervention and prevention, developing a
common framework, knowing the law, communicating frequently, providing
technical assistance, and developing a computerized information-sharing system.
It was the consensus of the Juvenile Crime Advisory Committee that the action
plans for attaining each of its recommended goals and objectives must primarily
occur through a comprehensive, collaborative, community-based mechanism of
assessment and program development. Therefore, each action step should be
considered from the perspective of a county-level or regional planning body [such
as a juvenile justice county council or Local Area Network (LAN)], that is setting
out to implement this type of locally-based response mechanism to juvenile
offenders and other at-risk juvenile populations.
A.

Goal: The State must have high quality data about juvenile offenders that
allows for informed decision making at the individual case level, as well
as informed juvenile justice laws and policies.

1.

Objective:
Create and maintain a centralized and integrated reporting
system that links juvenile justice agencies, schools, and treatment
providers, and uses a common language.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Create a project advisory board to develop a list of the basic
elements – those which at a minimum need to be collected by
all agencies, as well as other operational parameters to be part
of the integrated reporting system. The Authority’s role would
be to research issues related to data quality, record
confidentiality, and legal issues, and to convene
interdisciplinary groups to develop and oversee the project.

b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Provide incentives for agencies to integrate information
systems (i.e., grant funds for software programs such as

32

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

records management, word processing, database, e-mail, and
spreadsheets).

• Identify funding for the training of users of the integrated
reporting system.

• Identify funding to afford a mechanism for the accuracy of
data/information maintained to be challenged and, if
appropriate, removed from the system or record repository.
c. Legislative Action Steps:

• Explore legislation that gives the responsibility for
coordinating the project to a central authority.

• Explore legislation that gives local agencies the authority to
collect or share certain information.
d. Policy Action Steps:

• Institute policies that establish uniformity in the way juvenilerelated data are collected and exchanged.

• Institute policies that put into place “firewalls” that, where
applicable, limit data access.
B.

Goal: Enhance the facilitation and exchange of information while
safeguarding privacy rights.

1.

Objective:
Ensure that confidentiality laws and policies are consistent
with the early intervention and community-based prevention objectives in
the Illinois Juvenile Justice Reform Act.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Develop an understanding of the safeguards and barriers that
currently exist surrounding confidentiality (e.g., mental health
codes, safety issues, perceptions that the juvenile justice
system can’t help, schools trying to protect their image),
including health and mental health data residing with private
sector agencies.

33

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• Use research to focus attention on what is best for kids, the
system’s mandate to provide “second chances”, and the role of
juvenile record information in meeting those objectives.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify funding for a booklet that educates agencies on which
types of record exchange is legal, which is not, and what needs
to be changed.
c.

Legislative Action Steps:

• Develop and support legislation that gives agencies
information-sharing privileges if they are participants in local
assessment centers, which bring together the fragmented
elements of service delivery in a collaborative, timely, costeffective, and comprehensive manner.

• Explore whether legislation is needed to change confidentiality
provisions in codes including but not limited to, the Juvenile
Court Act, Child Care Act, Mental Health Code, etc.
d.

Policy Action Step:

• Develop policies that govern who has access to specific
information, when they should receive that information, and
consequences for not following such policies.
e.

Other Action Steps:

• Encourage “buy-in” from all juvenile justice and other related
agencies regarding the value of sharing information to make
the system work better for children.

• Distinguish between practices that are better for institutions
versus better for kids.

34

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Priority Issue 2
The State must recognize the importance of identifying and
responding to risk factors as a delinquency prevention measure,
and understand that failure to do so can increase the likelihood
that a juvenile will offend or re-offend.
The Advisory Committee members noted the importance of juvenile justice
agencies being aware of what risk factors are associated with delinquency and
other subsequent problems, and how to determine if a child is experiencing them.
They specifically noted the importance for school personnel, health care workers,
and others who deal with youth being able to identify these problems and
intervene prior to criminal justice system involvement. In particular, the
committee members noted that there is a need to use the resources of educational
institutions more efficiently in terms of their role in early identification.
The committee members stressed the need for schools to provide not only
traditional academic classes, but also character development, mediation skills,
parenting skills (both to teens and to their parents), and anti-gang programs, and
other programs that enhance protective factors serving to mitigate risk.
The discussion focused on the fact that early intervention is more effective and
less costly than later intervention, and will minimize the need for long-term
treatment. It will also help prevent future delinquency, drug abuse, and other
maladaptive behavior. The discussion also focused on the need to provide
interventions that treat not only the individual youth, but family members as well,
particularly with regard to their parenting and socialization roles. They discussed
the need to also consider the role of the community in shaping the youth’s
behavior, and whenever possible, to employ home visits in the treatment process,
in order to assess these family and community factors.
The committee members also discussed the fact that certain risk factors – poverty,
unemployment, poor schools – were systemic in nature, that whole sectors of the
population were affected, and reducing those risk factors would be a formidable
task.
There is a wealth of research that has been generated in this topic area,
particularly during the past five years. OJJDP recently brought 22 researchers
together for two years to analyze current research on risk and protective factors
and the development of serious and violent juvenile offending careers.
In addition, 66 studies of the predictors of youth violence were examined in a
meta-analysis by M.W. Lipsey and J.H. Derzon in 1998. These research reviews
have resulted in the identification of 27 risk factors organized into five domains:

35

 State Criminal Justice Plan

1.

Individual factors include pregnancy and delivery complications,
low resting heart rate, internalizing disorders, hyperactivity,
aggressiveness, early initiation of violent behavior, involvement in
other forms of anti-social behavior, and beliefs and attitudes
favorable to deviant or anti-social behavior.

2.

Family factors include parental criminality, child maltreatment,
poor family management practices, low levels of parental
involvement, poor family bonding and family conflict, parental
attitudes favorable to substance abuse and violence, and parentchild separation.

3.

School factors include academic failure, low bonding to school,
truancy and dropping out of school, and frequent school
transitions.

4.

Peer-related factors include delinquent siblings, delinquent peers,
and gang membership.

5.

Community and neighborhood factors include poverty, community
disorganization, availability of drugs and firearms, neighborhood
adults involved in crime, and exposure to violence and racial
prejudice.

The Authority has also presented recent statewide trends for specific risk factors
in its publication Juvenile Crime and Justice System Activities in Illinois: An
Overview of Trends. In most instances, statewide risk indicators have abated in
recent years.

• The number of statewide unemployment cases has also been on the decline
since 1992 (see Figure 1).

• School drop-outs have been on the decline since the 1993-94 school year (see
Figure 2).

• Between State fiscal years 1995 and 1998, both reported and verified cases of
child neglect decreased (see Figure 3).

36

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Figure 1

Long-Term Statewide Trends in
Unemployment
500,000

Number of Unemployment Cases

450,000
400,000
350,000
300,000
250,000
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
1990

1991

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

1998

Year

Figure 2

Long-Term Statewide Trends in
School Drop-Outs
45,000

Number of Drop-Outs

40,000
35,000
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
8586

8687

8788

8889

8990

9091

9192

9293

School Year

37

9394

9495

9596

9697

9798

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Figure 3

Reported and Verified Cases
of Child Abuse and Neglect in Illinois
Reported and Verified Cases

160,000
140,000
120,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
85

86

87

88

89

90

91 92
Year

Reported Cases

93

94

95

96

97

98

Verified Cases

A.

Goal: Continue to emphasize the importance of identifying and
addressing factors that may lead to delinquency prior to a youth's
involvement in the juvenile justice system.

1.

Objective:
Provide practical information to all those who deal with
youth on how to recognize risk factors and how to respond to them in an
effective way.

a.

Research Action Steps:

• Encourage a collaboration between the Authority, and the
Department of Human Service (DHS), Division of Community
Health and Prevention to accomplish a research agenda, which
is designed to:

• Identify the specific factors that lead to delinquency.
• Identify effective programs that offset risk factors.
• Examine and document training already in place on
identification of risk factors.

• Identify programs for station adjusted youth based on risk
factor assessment.

38

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

• Identify effective programs for selected population groups.
• Study the potential negative effects of labeling youth as
"at-risk" or "in-need".
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Identify funding opportunities for training and cross training of
different groups and agencies to ensure that there is a common
understanding of risk and protective factors by those who are
in a position to observe and respond to those factors.

• Tie service provider funding to the use of risk factor
assessment in determining client/community needs.
c.

Policy Action Steps:

• Encourage the development of appropriate policies relying on a
common understanding of risk and protective factors in
agencies that are in a position to observe and respond to those
factors.

• Use risk and protective factors as a checklist to involve youth
in the most relevant treatment option.
2.

Objective:
Make better use of the educational system's resources in the
prevention of delinquency.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Identify effective school-based prevention programs, and
survey those programs with the cooperation of school officials
to gain an understanding of need.

• Research ways to reduce the use of the juvenile justice system
for school-related discipline issues.

• Determine how best to help schools become a place where risk
factors can be identified and preventive factors promoted.

• Examine the role of “youth development” programs in schools.
• Publish, from the above assessment activities, a “best
practices” report from ICJIA and the Illinois State Board of
39

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Education (ISBE), with assistance from DHS, IJJC, and local
law enforcement agencies.
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Coordinate funding for school-based programs with ISBE.
• Identify funding to train educators so they better understand
how to identify and respond to risk factors without stigmatizing
youth.

• Identify funding to expand effective school-based programs.
• Make the education community aware of out-of-school
resources available to assist them in prevention programming.
c.

Legislative Action Steps:

• Develop and support legislation that establishes a social skills
curriculum with lesson plans for all school districts.

• Develop and support legislation that establishes more
occupational training in the schools.
d.

Policy Action Steps:

• Establish policies that increase youth exposure to and
development of social skills, character development, and
mediation skills.

• Establish policies that encourage the teaching of parenting
skills to families of children who present at-risk behaviors for
violence at school.

• Promote policies that facilitate anti-gang programs at schools.
B.

Goal: Problem behaviors should be addressed before juveniles become
entrenched in the juvenile justice system.

1.

Objective:
a.

Develop a treatment strategy that centers on the family.

Research Action Step:

40

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

• Identify effective family-centered, community-based
prevention programs that address risk factors.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Require family-centered treatment be a component to be
addressed by any proposal for funding services for youth.
c.

Legislative Action Step:

• Explore legislation that changes the Illinois Medicaid law so
that family treatment would be reimbursed for psychologists,
social workers, and counselors.
e. Policy Action Steps:

• Establish policies that promote multi-modal strategies that
include family therapy, preferably in the offender’s home, as a
condition of probation.

• Establish policies that include, wherever possible, extended
family members – especially grandparents – in probation
monitoring and supervision of a child’s behavior.

• Establish treatment policies that emphasize the role of both
immediate family and the community as they impact the
youth’s behavior, and that strengthen inter-personal
relationships and social affiliations with family and
community.

• Develop policies that recognize the need for alternative living
arrangements if the family provides a harmful or dangerous
environment for the youth.
f. Other Action Steps:

• Promote the perspective that delinquency may be a symptom of
family dysfunction.

• Develop community and family support counselors who have
contact with a network of family-centered treatment service
providers.

41

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• Utilize family visits as an opportunity to report on youth
behavior within detention centers so parents can support staff
recommendations for particular values and principles for
behavior.

• Establish policies that incorporate strategies that recognize the
youth and siblings as future parents.

Priority Issue 3
The State's handling of juveniles with mental health needs must
be improved.
Youth with mental health and other special needs, including educational, medical,
drug dependency, females, crime victims, abuse and neglect victims, often come
into the juvenile justice system because there is nowhere else for them to go, even
though they would be better served by other systems.
The advisory committee members felt that youth with mental health problems
would be better served by the health care system, especially when they require
residential treatment. Unfortunately, treatment programs often do not want to
accept these cases until they are "stabilized" or reach conclusion in the court
system. In addition, they may not have room for additional youth in their
program. As a result, the parents or guardians will rely upon the juvenile justice
system once the problem behavior manifests itself in lawbreaking activity. The
committee discussed the possibility that at these early stages of delinquency, the
youth may be in the “wrong” system. Members felt that decisions should be made
based on which system is best equipped to help the youth rather than which
system is the most convenient in which to place the youth. Advisory committee
members felt that another important factor is cost. Private facilities are expensive,
and may be unaffordable to either the parents or the community.
Recent research reports by OJJDP have highlighted the fact that a large number of
juvenile delinquents have mental health disorders and substance abuse problems,
and a high percentage also have conduct disorders (OJJDP Fact Sheet #82:
Mental Health Disorders and Substance Abuse Problems Among Juveniles: July
1998). The research report recommends four steps:
(1) Supporting research and data collection. OJJDP is contributing to a multi-year
National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) study of substance abuse, antisocial behavior, and various treatment programs for children with attention
deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

42

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

(2) Assessment of juveniles when they first come into contact with the juvenile
justice system. OJJDP is promoting assessment center models which currently
operate in Orlando, Florida and Golden, Colorado.
(3) Increasing the number of quality treatment programs in the community and in
juvenile institutions.
(4) Focusing on juveniles who are at-risk for delinquency rather than those
already in the system.
A. Goal: Serve juveniles with mental health and other special needs in the most
appropriate system given their specific needs.
1. Objective: Seek alternative treatment approaches for special needs youth,
centering treatment around the family whenever possible.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Identify model family-centered programs for treatment of
youth with mental health and other special needs.

• Develop a better understanding of the systems that are best
equipped to facilitate services to special populations.

• Examine the barriers to families seeking therapy for special
populations.

• Identify how to best assess mental health and other special
needs.

• Research the effects of exposure to sexual and domestic
violence on the likelihood of future delinquency/criminal
behavior.

• Evaluate the possible negative effects of mental health labels
on juveniles (e.g., BD-Behavior Disorder, LD-Learning
Disabled, etc.) and look for solutions that do not just include
medication.
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Identify funding for assessment centers or other mechanisms
that routinely supply the courts with remedial

43

 State Criminal Justice Plan

recommendations.

• Fund follow-up services for children, linked to communitybased therapy to monitor progress.

• Fund generalized and regular local planning meetings (e.g.,
LANs, Juvenile Justice Councils) on common concerns over
special populations.
c.

Legislative Action Steps:

• Develop and support legislation that establishes parity of
mental health coverage with medical coverage in health
insurance policies.
d.

Policy Action Steps:

• Develop policies that promote the use of multi-modal and
multi-disciplinary therapy for special populations.

• Develop special units in juvenile probation with trained
probation officers, social workers and psychologists to work
with clients with special needs.

• Develop policies that develop linkages in juvenile detention
centers to health and mental health services in the community.

• Develop policies that allow for comprehensive wraparound
services for all clients of DHS, not just DCFS wards.
B.

Goal: To make accessible, on an equal basis, programs that address
problem behaviors of special populations.

1.

Objective:
Establish adequate resources for community-level
responses, including affordable treatment programs.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Conduct focus group research to clarify community service
needs.

• Examine if privatization of mental health services is less
expensive than in-house programs.

44

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Provide additional resources for programs that serve juvenile
sex offenders and juvenile sexual assault/abuse victims.

• Identify available funds for programs targeting “curiosity” fire
setters and other juvenile arsonists.
c.

Legislative Action Steps:

• Develop and support legislation for full health coverage for all
children modeled on Medicare.

• Develop and support legislation that results in reimbursements
to cover services from community-based agencies, not just
state agencies.
d.

Policy Action Steps:

• Develop policies that provide therapy on demand for pregnant
mothers with substance abuse problems, and for children with
substance abuse problems.
C.

Goal: Enhance follow-up capability for juveniles who have completed
treatment programs.

1.

Objective:
Establish more regular, comprehensive, collaborative
assessments of youth within the juvenile justice system – especially
regarding past and present risk factors and special needs.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Identify best practices, including the identification of state of
the art assessment tools.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify funding for assessment centers for minors referred to
the juvenile court, and which can perform follow-up
monitoring.
c.

45

Policy Action Steps:

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• Develop a policy that requires health and mental health
assessments for all youth in detention and youth on probation.

• Develop policies that increase the use of living skill
assessments to prepare teens for independent living.

Priority Issue 4
Current service delivery systems for juveniles are fragmented.
This issue deals with the problem of different agencies responding to various
components of a youth’s problem behavior or delinquency, without sufficient
coordination in the development of a treatment plan or in the actual delivery of
services. There is a need for a collaborative and multi-disciplinary response to
troubled youth.
Advisory committee members discussed the problems associated with the
fragmentation of service delivery. Specifically, many programs do not know what
treatments or interventions other programs are offering, and there is often
duplication of services and large gaps in other services. The committee felt that a
continuum of services is more cost-effective than a piecemeal approach, and
would ensure fewer gaps in services and fewer turf battles between agencies.
They acknowledged, however, that problems in coordinating services were rather
substantial. Different care providers often operate with differing terminology in
characterizing underlying problems to be addressed in treating the youth and
his/her family. Also, there is generally no single lead agency to define the
respective roles of the others. The problems are further exacerbated by
breakdowns in the sharing of information about individual youth. Committee
members also anticipated difficulties in establishing partnerships in which
agencies with different philosophies co-exist without any one agency co-opting
the others, especially when some are dependent on others for funding. Another
challenge involves creating a response mechanism that is supposed to be
community-based and “of the people”, and not a creation of state agencies and
institutions.
Very little research has been found which delineates this issue. There have been
several articles highlighting the notion of “wraparound services”, which are
intended to provide this continuum of services stemming from a centralized and
comprehensive needs assessment. In particular, Wraparound Milwaukee has been
cited as a model program of this type (Juvenile Justice: Journal of the Office of
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention: Vol. VII, No. 1, pp. 14-23)

46

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

A.

Goal: Create partnerships between agencies that deal with juveniles,
including criminal justice agencies, education, mental health, social
services, faith-based institutions, and neighborhood groups.

1.

Objective: Support, encourage, and market multi-disciplinary responses
by juvenile agencies, and pooling of resources.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Evaluate multi-systemic responses to juvenile delinquency.
• Identify predictors of success and failure in creating multidisciplinary partnerships.

• Examine the effectiveness of peer courts.
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Increase funding for non-profit agencies that provide services
within juvenile justice agency operations (i.e., substance abuse
services for juvenile detainees, or placement services for wards
of the court/probationers).

• Predicate funding for treatment services for delinquent and atrisk youth on real multi-disciplinary collaboration, not simply
letters of support or endorsement between agencies.

• Identify resources for community-based, multi-disciplinary
responses to delinquency.

• Identify funding for mentoring programs.
c.

Policy Action Steps:

• Develop policies that encourage the development and
implementation of a complete and seamless model treatment
approach with all agencies involved.

• Develop policies that encourage the creation of a case
management system for youth at early stages of contact with
police.

47

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• Develop policies to utilize a standard assessment tool so that
resources are targeted to youth at greatest risk.

• Develop policies that emphasize models of restorative justice
and agency participation in restorative justice planning
meetings.

• Support the use of university/college interns in service
provision and for other volunteer roles.
B.

Goal: The juvenile justice process should include greater community
involvement.

1.

Objective:
Support and encourage community input on program
planning and allocation of local resources.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Examine models and general theoretical approaches for local
involvement in program planning.

• Examine how community organizing is currently done in
selected test site locations, and how funding is generated.

Priority Issue 5
The State should decentralize funding for juvenile justice projects
and encourage collaboration.
The State should coordinate funding and encourage the juvenile justice and
service delivery systems to fund collaboratively instead of individually. Local
entities should have greater input on decisions about funding.
The Juvenile Crime Advisory Committee members discussed the need for
agencies and programs to pool their resources in order to be as effective as
possible and get the most benefit from funding sources. They discussed the fact
that this process should begin with coordination among the state agencies that
administer federal block grant funds and that take primary responsibility for
programming efforts in criminal and juvenile justice (the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority and the Illinois Juveniel Justice Commission), in crime
prevention (the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority), and in provision of
treatment services (the Illinois Department of Human Services). This would

48

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

represent a starting point, from which local community groups could then identify
local sources of funding.
A.

Goal: The State must make efficient use of funds available for juvenile
justice.

1.

Objective:
a.

Reduce the constraints on funding eligibility.

Funding Action Step:

• Focus on “smaller, faster, better,” grants that would be better
suited for smaller agencies/service providers rather than large
complicated grants.
2.

Objective:
Engage communities by asking them to be more involved
in the allocation process and assist with the identification of local
resources that have gone untapped.
a.

Funding Action Step:

• Provide an incentive to encourage collaborative, communitybased, comprehensive planning around juvenile justice, by
delivering funding to local multi-disciplinary LANs for their
allocation to local agencies within the LAN.

49

 State Criminal Justice Plan

OFFENDER SERVICES

T

he priority issues detailed in this section identify the critical need for a
continuum of intervention that begins and ends in the community. These
interventions must make use of the body of knowledge on best practices
and the effectiveness of treatment, and maximize the use of available
resources. In order to implement best practices, components of the criminal
justice system must enhance communication across disciplines and initiate
partnerships with the community to build capacity for change.

Priority Issue 1
The State of Illinois must develop more effective policies and
programs to identify and deal with drug and violent crime
offenders.
The Offender Services Advisory Committee specifically identified the overall
mission of the criminal justice system as the reduction of recidivism and
improvement of the safety and well being of individuals, families and
communities. Participants agreed that crime control policy is too often reactive,
and too infrequently based on research and established best practices. Group
members expressed concern regarding over-reliance on incarceration for certain
offenses, while others go unpunished.

Figure 1

Arrests for Violations of Illinois' Drug Laws,
1975 - 1998
120,000

Drug Arrests

100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0
1976

1978

1980

1982

1984

1986

1988

1990

1992

1994

1996

1998

Year
Total Drug Arrests

Cannabis Control Act

Controlled Substances Act

Other Drug Acts

Sour ce: Illinois St at e Police

50

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Figure 2

Availability of Drugs in Illinois, 1998
1 = Not Available 5 = Easily Available
5
4
3
2
1
0
Cocaine

Crack

Cannabis

Meth.

LSD

Heroin

PCP

Drug
Mostly Rural

Urban/Rural

Mostly Urban

Cook County

Source: M EG/TF Survey

The Drug and Violent Crime and Offender Services Advisory Committees
focused a substantial portion of their discussions on offender treatment services.
The groups acknowledged the effectiveness of various treatment programs, the
importance of identifying and monitoring offenders, and the need to foster
communication between the criminal justice system and treatment service
providers.

Figure 3

Percent of Chicago Arrestees Testing
Positive for Drugs
100%

Any Drug

80%
Cocaine

60%
40%

Opiates
20%
0%
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 *1999

Year
Any Drug (Including Marijuana)

Cocaine

Source: TASC, Inc. *1999 based on January -Sept ember and includes f emales

51

Opiates

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Both of the advisory committees initially concentrated their discussion on
offenders with substance abuse issues. The strong link between drugs and crime
was recognized, and it was noted that the current drug policy may place too much
emphasis on punishment and not enough on intervention. While drug interdiction
and dismantling major distribution syndicates clearly must continue to be an
integral part of Illinois' crime control strategy (Figure 1), these efforts alone
cannot reduce demand. Prosecution efforts should target those individuals
responsible for operating production, importation, and distribution networks, and
offer low level offenders who are drug users real opportunities for treatment. It is
only by supporting this two-pronged effort that Illinois can hope to reduce drug
use and its cost to society.
Those who use drugs are more likely to commit other crimes, and many offenders
are under the influence of drugs during the commission of a crime. Each year,
law enforcement and prosecution agencies arrest more offenders and seize more
drugs, yet the availability of drugs remains high (Figure 2). Household surveys
show drug use is declining for certain age groups in the general population, but is
remaining steady for young adults and offender populations. Based on
professional experiences, Drug and Violent Crime Advisory Committee
participants felt that drug use is higher than ever, and that law enforcement deals
with a population that consistently has a high rate of drug use. As seen through
the Arrestee Drug Abuse Monitoring (ADAM) program that was implemented in
the late 1980’s, 70 to 80 percent of the arrestee sample tests positive for an illicit
substance (Figure 3).
Figure 4

Comparison of Drug Arrests, Treatment
Admissions and Prison Sentences
120,000
100,000

Number

80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0

82 83

Drug Arrests

84 85

86 87

88 89 90 91 92
Year
Drug Tx Admissions

93 94 95 96 97 98
Drug Prison Sentences

Source: ISP; OASA;IDOC

52

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

The consistent growth in prison sentences for drug crime has swelled the
correctional population (Figure 4). While drug offenders account for a relatively
high proportion of Illinois Department of Correction (IDOC) prison admissions,
an even higher proportion of inmates are substance abusers. A 1994 study
conducted by the Illinois Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse (OASA,
formerly Department of Alcohol and Substance Abuse) showed that more than
three-quarters of the inmates surveyed had used illicit drugs in the past year, and
65 percent had used illicit drugs in the past month. More than half (55 percent) of
the 42,336 inmates surveyed had a lifetime dependence on one or more
substances. Illinois Department of Corrections data indicate that 57 percent of
adult male offenders and 63 percent of adult female offenders in prison are in
need of substance abuse treatment, and just over 3,100 treatment beds are
Figure 5

Prevalence of Probationer Drug Abuse History
& Treatment Orders, by Offense

Percent

60%

40%

20%

0%

Violent

Property

Drug

Conviction Offense Type
Percent w / History of Drug Abuse

Percent Ordered to Drug Treatment

So urce: 1997 A dult P ro batio n Outco me Study

available.
Regarding probationer history of substance abuse, a survey conducted in 1997 by
the Authority and AOIC found more than half of probationers had a history of
substance abuse (Figure 5).
Exhaustive research has demonstrated that drug treatment is effective, but only if
a comprehensive approach to treatment is undertaken and fully implemented.
Substance abusing offenders require a range of services including screening and
assessment, individual and group counseling, life skills, drug education,
residential treatment units, specialized case management services, and supervision

53

 State Criminal Justice Plan

and monitoring. A continuum of care that effectively provides treatment and
services is necessary to support the transition back into the community.
Offenders must be provided with opportunities for employment, outpatient
treatment, residential treatment, day reporting, daily living skill enhancement, and
educational/vocational training. The community needs to provide the strong
support structure necessary to help offenders become productive members of

54

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

society once they have ended their addictions or learned to control their abusive
behaviors.
Drug courts offer drug offenders a strong opportunity for change. Drug court
participants avoid prosecution by agreeing to enter into strict substance abuse
treatment, coupled with close supervision, frequent urinalysis testing, and
periodic status hearings. Research has supported the use of drug courts to monitor
offenders and assist in promoting more positive lifestyles. An Authoritysponsored evaluation of the Madison County drug court found that assistance in
developing job skills and obtaining employment contributed to participant
success. Further, in Research on Drug Courts: A Critical Review (1998), Steven
Belenko reports on consistent findings drawn from his examination of various
process and impact evaluations and cost analysis studies published in the U.S.
between 1993 and 1998. These studies found that the criminal behavior and drug
use of drug court participants is substantially reduced during program
participation, the courts generate savings in jail costs and programs successfully
bridge the gap between court and treatment/public health systems.
The Offender Services Advisory Committee acknowledged the growth in drug
courts but noted that this intervention is available in a small part of the State.
Furthermore, demand for treatment still far exceeds its availability.
Both Advisory Committees emphasized the need for the criminal justice system to
recognize the dynamics of treatment. One of the strengths of the drug court
model is its acknowledgement that it may take several attempts for a substance
abuser to overcome his/her lifetime of addiction. Understanding the dynamics of
recovery and the likelihood of relapse before recovery, the model builds in second
chances for treatment. Outside of these special drug courts, the scarcity of
treatment resources often limits offenders to only one chance to succeed in
treatment. Relapse often means the loss of a treatment slot and imposition of new
sanctions, effectively undoing progress made.
The Drug and Violent Crime Advisory Committee also noted that staying in
treatment is much more difficult than complying with other conditions of a
sentence, and success often depends on the duration of treatment. Recent
research on drug treatment availability and effectiveness shows that successful
programs should be long term and intensive (Lurigio, 2000). OASA data show
that of the criminal justice referrals to treatment, nearly two-thirds had received
treatment before, and only 45 percent of criminal justice referrals completed
treatment. However, the 1997 Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts
(AOIC) and the Authority probation study found that of those ordered to
treatment (96 percent of treatment orders were for substance abuse), 76.2 percent
completed or were still participating in treatment at the conclusion of the study.
While the discussion of treatment services initially focused on drug treatment, the
participants in the Offender Services and the Drug and Violent Crime Advisory

55

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Committees recognized the treatment needs of violent and domestic offenders,
sex offenders and offenders with co-occurring disorders. The data indicate
approximately 70 percent of adult inmates in IDOC mental health units have cooccurring mental and substance abuse disorders. In addition, there is an
increasing need for sex offender treatment. IDOC housed over 3,800 sex
offenders in state fiscal year 1999, and the majority of these inmates are expected
to be released into communities during the next five years.
While the response to drug offenses may be overly criminalized, Advisory
Committee participants agreed that the criminal justice system has still not
adequately accepted domestic violence as a crime. An overview of crime rates
showed that the overwhelming majority of the nearly 131,000 domestic offenses
reported in Illinois were violent in nature. While great strides have been made in
addressing domestic violence through the establishment of protocols and
specialized courts, members agreed that domestic violence courts are sometimes
implemented more to manage high caseloads than to effect change. Diversion
programs must be careful not to trivialize the crime of domestic violence by using
treatment as a sanction. Rather, treatment should be used in conjunction with
such sanctions as probation, jail or prison time.
Discussants noted a lack of support for treatment by the general public and certain
components of the criminal justice system, including law enforcement, judges and
prosecution. While there are many successful treatment programs in existence
across the State, treatment is not currently used to the extent possible. The Drug
and Violent Crime Advisory Committee recommended that information detailing
the availability of treatment, program capacity, provider qualifications, treatment
outcomes and successful program components be compiled and disseminated to
increase awareness of the potential use of treatment.
Timely pre-sentence investigations, assessments and offender evaluations are
powerful tools for identifying offender needs. Without an understanding of
offender needs, criminal justice partners often see little need for treatment
services. Survey results from the planning Assembly attendees also noted the
need for appropriate screening to make sure those most in need of treatment
receive it. Research has shown that the best intervention programs involve
thorough assessment that matches offender needs with appropriate treatment
(Lurigio, 2000).
Discussions at the Governor's Summit also identified the importance of a
systematic approach to identification and screening for substance abuse,
assessment and treatment. However, it was noted that pre-sentence investigations
for every offender may tax the abilities of the system. Until resources are
available for assessment of all offenders, it is important to determine priorities for
offender assessment and treatment.

56

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

The Drug and Violent Crime Advisory Committee also discussed the financial
burdens associated with treatment. Participants noted that when sliding fee scales
are not available and the State does not absorb treatment costs, some offenders are
unable to afford the cost of necessary treatment.
In addition, participants expressed concern over the lack of standards for
treatment providers across the State. Research shows that effective programs
maintain providers that are trained, experienced and credentialed. These
successful programs carefully and consistently implement treatment protocols
(Lurigio, 2000). While OASA maintains standards for the treatment programs it
supports, it is not required that all providers adhere to these standards
To understand the establishment or priority populations, the criminal justice
system must be more involved with the treatment community, particularly at the
level of policy making and resource allocation. Criminal justice officials need to
learn more about the provision of substance abuse treatment, including its positive
effects and limitations. Conversely, the treatment community needs to better
understand the criminal justice system, including needs, requirements, and
expectations for treatment provided to offender populations.
In order for decision-makers to support effective programs, they must also be
willing to revise or discontinue ineffective programs. Members emphasized the
need for research and criminal justice professionals to critically assess the
effectiveness of interventions, share this information with partner agencies, and
actively implement best practices while eliminating the use of weaker programs.
The groups recognized that most criminal justice and treatment service agencies
may lack the skills and tools necessary to accomplish program assessment, and
advocated for the development and institutionalization of ongoing evaluation
training for program staff and administrators.
One of the critical tools necessary for such assessments is quality data.
Information on Illinois offenders and the services they receive might best be
described as a patchwork quilt, with little standardization across the criminal
justice system and treatment service providers, and varying levels of automation.
This lack of uniformity gives partner agencies incomplete information to
determine appropriate services and sanctions for each offender and inhibits the
ability of agencies to accurately assess the efficacy of their interventions.
In order to address the issue of developing effective policies and programs for
offenders, the following goals, objectives, and action steps have been
recommended:
A.

57

Goal: Work toward the development of information-based perceptions,
policies and programs.

 State Criminal Justice Plan

1.

Objective:
Identify and address gaps in knowledge affecting offender
services in Illinois.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Conduct a comprehensive review of research and literature to
identify effective interventions and best practices. At
minimum, this review should include drug treatment; mental
health; vocational, education and job training services; and
services to special populations, including females, sex
offenders, older offenders and those with dual diagnosis. This
review should aim to identify gaps in research and recommend
areas for evaluation and study.

• Develop an ongoing mechanism to review new research and
update progress toward filling knowledge gaps on best
practices and the effectiveness of current intervention
programs.

• Determine the availability of program information and
treatment data to key stakeholders, and look at how the
information is disseminated.
2.

Objective:
Disseminate information on program effectiveness and best
practices to stakeholders, policy makers and the public.
a. Policy Action Steps:

• Disseminate a body of knowledge on program effectiveness
and best practices research to policy makers, funders,
stakeholders and other key representatives of the public to be
identified.

• Identify mechanisms, such as publications, outreach, training,
and public information initiatives, to disseminate information
about program effectiveness and best practices.

b.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify ongoing resources to support staff and production
costs associated with the collection and dissemination of vital
information, which will ensure criminal justice and treatment
58

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

dollars are not wasted on ineffective programs.
c.

Legislative Action Step:
•

3.

Support research-based crime policy over reactive legislation
by advocating for the criminal justice system to partner with
treatment agencies, the legislature and other funding entities to
review legislation in light of research findings.

Objective:
Enhance the capacity of agencies to evaluate the impact of
services and interventions.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Assess the existing capacity of agencies to evaluate services
and interventions.
b.

Funding Action Steps

• Establish funding criteria that require offender service
programs to incorporate evaluation into program operations
and data collection systems.
c.

B.

59

Policy Action Steps:
•

Foster the growth of research-based programming and policy
by encouraging funders to move toward funding only those
programs that implement interventions that have been proven
effective or will be used as evaluation models, and move to
discontinue programs that cannot prove their effectiveness.

•

Obtain information on program effectiveness by making data
collection tools available that facilitate tracking and assessment
of comprehensive offender information. Specifically, develop
and operate a statewide data collection system that provides
case-level offender information, and allows agencies to track
offenders across agency boundaries.

•

Develop and implement an evaluation training program to
build the capacity of agencies to perform self-evaluation.

Goal: Increase the ability of the criminal justice system to: 1) effectively
identify and verify the risks and needs of drug and violent crime offenders,
and 2) enhance treatment capacity.

 State Criminal Justice Plan

1.

Objective:
Ensure that treatment services are available at the
appropriate time in the offender’s criminal career.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Survey gaps in the availability of treatment services by
collecting information that describes waiting lists and the
ability of offenders to pay for necessary treatment services.
•
b.

c.

Assess current treatment needs relative to system capacity.

Funding Action Steps:
•

Identify funding to make treatment resources available
immediately upon sentencing.

•

Expand the number of drug courts in Illinois.

Policy Action Steps:
•

Increase the availability of client information at the point of
sentencing or pre-trial release decisions, including pre-sentence
investigations, assessment, and urinalysis results.

• Implement policies that mandate pre-sentence investigations
and assessments for domestic violence and sex offenders, as
well as drug abusers.

• Include assessments with pre-sentence investigations, and
establish practical turn-around time for the completion of
assessments.
2.

Objective:
Ensure treatment programs are responsive to the needs of
the criminal justice system by involving criminal justice practitioners in
the development of treatment policy and the assessment of quality
programs.
a.

Policy Action Steps:
•

Enhance accountability by supporting policies that require
grant recipients to document and publish success rates of
treatment services.

•

Establish State protocols for offender treatment, and mandate
compliance with protocols for court-ordered treatment.

60

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

3.

•

Employ sanctions if providers do not comply with mandated
treatment or tests.

•

Involve all stakeholders, including criminal justice partners and
treatment providers, in the development and evaluation of
treatment programs.

•

Consider evaluation and research findings when establishing
criteria for Authority-funded programs.

•

Explore opportunities, such as multi-disciplinary training, for
criminal justice practitioners and treatment providers to
exchange information.

Objective:
Ensure the criminal justice system has sufficient resources,
including technology and personnel, to effectively and efficiently monitor
offenders under correctional supervision.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Survey practitioners responsible for monitoring offenders to
determine their needs, and to establish priority for making tools
and personnel available.
b.

Funding Action Step:
•

c.

61

Identify financial resources to provide a manageable
staff/offender ratio.

Policy Action Steps:
•

Ensure that failure to pass monitoring tests has prompt and
consistent consequences.

•

Mandate ratio of staff to offender.

•

Require training for criminal justice practitioners to educate
them about treatment services.

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Priority Issue 2
The State lacks a continuum of offender services.
Recidivism in part can be linked to low levels of education, lack of a work history
and/or employment opportunities, a history of substance abuse, and a number of
other dysfunctions that hinder an inmate’s ability to make an incident free
adjustment to the community. Much of the Offender Services Advisory
Committee's discussion focused on the current fragmentation of service delivery
for offenders. This Advisory Committee called for the criminal justice system
partner agencies to work with service and treatment providers to build a
continuum of services.
Even when offenders successfully complete treatment, continuing this success
after release from corrections requires the availability of ongoing services.
Offenders released from prison or serving terms of probation need supportive
services to build alternatives to crime and substance abuse through employment,
education, and ongoing treatment services. Throughout 2000, the Illinois
Department of Corrections has undertaken a restructuring that is designed in part
to strengthen its transitional services. Plans are underway to convert adult
community correctional centers (work release centers) to Adult Transition
Centers (ATC). The ATC will be a community-based structured environment that
prepares adult offenders for eventual release. The unique component of the ATC
is that programs and services will be provided to ensure the continuity of care that
was initiated within the adult prison system.
In addition, the department has initiated a comprehensive review of its programs.
Staff are engaged in an analysis of needs, program criteria, anticipated outcomes,
gaps, and barriers to programs and processes that serve offender populations.
Plans are underway to re-direct resources and renew policies, procedures, and
practices to ensure targeted offenders receive the programming necessary to meet
their needs.
The Offender Services Advisory Committee agreed that additional resources will
be required for enhanced transitional services to provide offenders the opportunity
to remain drug-free and rebuild their lives after release, and asserted that
transitional services and other programs that have proven effective in addressing
offender needs must be supported.
While the Advisory Committee acknowledged the need for additional
community-based services for offenders, it also recognized that there may still be
a lack of qualified treatment professionals available throughout the state. In
addition, many areas of the state have major transportation barriers that make it
difficult for offenders to access available services. The Advisory Committee
recommended that the criminal justice system seek to facilitate the development

62

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

of community-based agency capacity to meet the growing need for qualified
treatment throughout the state.
A considerable part of the committee's discussions focused on offender
participation in treatment. While some members expressed frustration at offender
non-participation in treatment, others noted that the system does not always foster
that participation. Members emphasized the need to focus on offender
criminogenic factors in designing interventions which must begin the process of
changing a lifetime of anti-social attitudes and associates. Members advocated
for the use of incentives and rewards to encourage offender participation in
services and agreed that it is the responsibility of the system to foster offenders'
willingness and ability to change.
In order to maximize the effectiveness of offender services provided, the system
must acknowledge that many offenders have multiple needs that require intensive
services. Incomplete assessment of offenders with co-occurring disorders such as
mental illness and substance abuse leads to ineffective interventions.
A 1994 study conducted by Linda Teplin looked at psychiatric and substance
abuse disorders among 728 male jail detainees in the Cook County Department of
Corrections between November 1983 and November 1984. The study found that
more than 30 percent of 728 men studied had a severe mental disorder or
substance abuse disorder at the time of the study, and nearly 62 percent had had
one of these disorders during their lifetime.
Many male detainees were found to have multiple disorders. The Teplin study
found that the vast majority of ill detainees in the sample met the criteria for
alcohol disorders, drug disorders, or antisocial personality disorders. They were
more likely to have two or three disorders than to have only a single severe
disorder. In fact, the prevalence of co-disorders among severely ill detainees is
substantially higher than that found in the general population with no severe
disorder.
The Advisory Committee members discussed the need for services presented by
the State's pre-trial jail population. Unable to make bail, indigent defendants
often spend many months in jail before their cases come to trial. Group members
stated that by not assessing and providing services to these detainees, the criminal
justice system misses real opportunities to begin the process of offender
rehabilitation. Medical care, medical counseling and substance abuse treatment
were identified as the most critical services that could be provided to these
defendants.
In addition to multiple need offenders, services must be developed and provided
that are sensitive to the specific needs of female and juvenile offenders. The
incorporation of services for offenders’ families was recommended as a vehicle
for offender reintegration and the reduction of recidivism.
63

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Much of the Advisory Committees' s discussion focused on the special needs of
female offenders and the additional obstacles to reintegration that they face. At
the end of fiscal year 1999, women comprised 6.2 percent of the total adult
population and 7 percent of the total juvenile population in the Illinois
Department of Corrections. For many of these women, the incarceration period is
brief and is generally for a drug-related or non-violent offense. Many women are
arrested for drug offenses related to their own addiction or a lack of economic
alternatives for supporting themselves or their children. By the time these women
are incarcerated within IDOC, a limited number previously participated in
outpatient or residential drug treatment in the community.
Female offenders enter IDOC with a myriad of long-standing deficiencies and
self-destructive tendencies. Many women offenders live in a cycle of dependency
whether the key focus is destructive relationships, drugs, alcohol, or welfare
programs. Many have been victims of sexual or physical abuse and most are the
primary caregivers of their children. Women committed to IDOC suffer from
illnesses and conditions that have been chronically undiagnosed and untreated for
prolonged periods of time. Female offenders are at considerable risk for a range
of infectious diseases including tuberculosis, hepatitis, HIV, and sexually
transmitted diseases. Many women have a history of mental illness.
About 80 percent of IDOC adult female offenders are mothers. These women feel
intense guilt and shame about their children and society’s labeling them as bad
mothers. Although women leave prison hoping to be reunited with their children,
years of incarceration make the women uncertain about how their children will
react or whether the relationships can be renewed. In situations involving foster
care, regulations may make it difficult for incarcerated women to regain custody
of their children.
Many female offenders lack fundamental daily living skills including financial
planning, parenting, accessing support and services, productive use of leisure
time, and cultivating and maintaining relationships. Women must find jobs that
pay enough to support them and their children despite a lack of education,
training, and the stigma of prison records.
According to national surveys, nearly 40 percent of females in state prisons
reported being the victim of past sexual abuse, and 46.5 percent reported being
the victim of past physical abuse. More than half of abused women reported their
spouse or boyfriend had abused them, and about one-third reported parents or
guardian as abusers. Among abused men, more than half reported parents as
abusers.
According to a U.S. Department of Justice report, nearly 90 percent of state
inmates said they were abused (physically or sexually) reported using drugs in the
past. Seventy-six percent of abused men and 89 percent of abused women used

64

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

drugs regularly. Of those who did not report abuse, 82 percent said they had used
drugs in the past. Sixty-eight percent of non-abused men and 65 percent of nonabused women reported using drugs regularly.
Past Physical and Sexual Abuse Among
Offenders Under Correctional Supervision, 1997
Male

Female

Total

13.4%
6.0%
10.7%
7.4%

46.5%
32.3%
37.3%
33.5%

15.4%
7.9%
13.3%
12.8%

5.8%
2.2%
5.6%
4.1%

39.0%
22.8%
37.2%
25.2%

7.9%
3.7%
8.8%
8.4%

Physical Abuse
State Prison
Federal Prison
Jail
Probation

Sexual Abuse
State Prison
Federal Prison
Jail
Probation

Source: U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics (1997). Special report: Lifetime Likelihood
of Going to State or Federal Prison.

The Offender Services Advisory Committee strongly agreed that programs must
be built to meet the special needs of female offenders to facilitate their
reintegration and provide their children with opportunities to avoid substance
abuse and crime.
While the group supported targeted services for offenders with special needs, it
was agreed that an improvement in the quality of assessment, treatment, and
transitional services was necessary for the general population of offenders in
order to effect any real change. The group cited a need to expand the pre-release
services for incarcerated offenders to help them make successful transitions to the
community. Members also agreed that the best intervention is early intervention.
The criminal justice system and policy makers must develop ways to involve
offenders in effective solutions without more serious involvement in the criminal
justice system.
The effectiveness of offender services is determined by the effectiveness of
offender assessment. In its presentation at the July 2000 Offender Services
Advisory Committee meeting, the Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts
reported that risk classification instruments are used to match levels of treatment
to the risk level of the offender, match offenders to programs, and deliver
intervention in a style and mode that is consistent with the abilities and learning
styles of the offenders. The most sophisticated of these instruments targets
criminogenic need by identifying those areas of offenders' lives that are linked to
criminal behavior, including substance abuse, attitudes, values and peers.

65

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Adult probation in Illinois currently uses a risk instrument developed in 1984.
This instrument is neither gender nor culturally sensitive, does not measure
critical criminogenic needs, and is not always effectively employed across the
state. Approximately 40 percent of juvenile probation departments in Illinois use
the Strategies for Juvenile Supervision instrument (SJS) in conjunction with an
Illinois risk instrument. This instrument provides a set of predictions about
juvenile offender motivation for offending and likely response to supervision, and
provides four distinct supervision strategies based on juvenile characteristics.
Advisory Committee members agreed that attention must be focused on
supporting the adoption of a state-of-the art assessment instrument and
implementation of best practices across all departments. This initiative must
include comprehensive training on the critical value and effectiveness of using
assessment instruments to determine supervision strategies and appropriately
sharing this information with criminal justice and treatment partner agencies.
Comprehensive assessment can enable the system to match offender needs to
services and provide the system with a map to guide successful intervention.
Without adequate understanding of the range of alternatives available, the system
cannot follow this guide. Participants agreed that a critical step in this process is
the reasoned application of research findings to influence practice. Participants
supported training to build these partnerships between members of the criminal
justice system and treatment providers to assure the system makes full use of the
available options to best tailor interventions to need and understand the full
dynamic of these interventions. A key step in building this partnership is
acknowledgement of the common goals of criminal justice and treatment agencies
and collaboration to enhance resources available to provide offender services.
The Advisory Committee examined the range of services necessary for a holistic
approach to offender service and rehabilitation. In addition to substance abuse,
mental health and vocational services, members agreed that medical services,
medical counseling and defense services are also critical components of this
approach. As the needs of offenders become more complex and more
sophisticated assessment instruments are used to identify complex offender needs,
the system must also build a more unified and comprehensive mix of services to
meet these needs.
Participants acknowledged that it is the system's responsibility to provide
opportunities for change, and the responsibility of offenders to take advantage of
these opportunities. Even where specialized courts with treatment focuses have
been started, staff members rotate through these assignments too quickly to
establish any continuity, institutionalize relationships between the partner
agencies or to effectively implement the program strategy. The criminal justice
system needs to make a real commitment to these new strategies for intervention
by making specialized courts attractive to staff and by providing sufficient
training regarding the research guiding the strategy. In order to be effective, all

66

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

system participants must understand the range of available treatment services and
sanctions and how they are best used in specialized court settings.
Similarly, the great disparity between the need for offender services and the
availability of these services demonstrates the system's current inability to
implement necessary interventions. In the Authority-sponsored Results of the
1997 Illinois Adult Probation Outcome Survey, researchers found that only
slightly more than half of the 2,438 probationers studied had been ordered to any
treatment. Few substance abusers are able to end their addictions on their first
attempt, yet the shortage of services forces the system to mete out limited
treatment resources so that few offenders receive sufficient services to truly effect
change.
In summary, the system must make a commitment to fully implement
interventions by greatly increasing the availability of quality treatment resources
and building interventions that take into account the dynamics of offender
responsivity.
A.

Goal: Close the gap between offender needs and available services.

1.

Objective:
Standardize the implementation of accurate and
comprehensive assessment of offender risk, need and responsivity.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Identify gender and culture sensitive tools that are shown to
accurately assess offender risk, need and responsivity. As
Illinois' offender population becomes increasingly diverse and
includes offenders with more complex needs, use of the most
sophisticated instruments available is necessary to pick the
most effective interventions for each offender.
b.

Policy Action Steps:

• Develop statewide standards for case assessment and planning,
and effective use of resources and interventions for offenders
in all jurisdictions. This may be accomplished through the
development of a plan to implement a statewide assessment
process which includes a cost/benefit analysis.

• Establish policies that support implementation of these
standards.

67

 State Criminal Justice Plan

c.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify funding for the implementation of the assessment
process, including adequate ongoing training for staff to enable
them to accurately use new tools.
2.

Objective:
Provide a continuum of interventions to ensure that all
components of the criminal justice system maximize opportunities for
rehabilitation and reintegration of offenders into the community.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Assess the capacity of the criminal justice system and its
partner agencies to provide a continuum of services that meets
offender needs. Funding and implementation of this
assessment must be ongoing to continue to develop and refine
agency capacity relative to need.
b.

Policy Action Steps:

• Utilize criminal justice/treatment research and best practices to
inform program agencies, funders and decision-makers as to
the most effective programs available to fill service gaps.

• Foster adoption of policies requiring protocols for offender
reintegration to maximize the use of resources available for
offenders.
3.

Objective:
Expand offender access to competent, effective, and
comprehensive habilitative services.
a.

Policy Action Step:

• Establish programs that provide cognitive-behavioral
interventions that target the criminal thinking, attitudes, beliefs
and values which support criminal behavior, and provide
interventions that provide alternatives to criminal behavior and
support offender families. Programs that employ this holistic
approach to offender intervention and those that seek to should
be identified, piloted and supported.
4.

Objective:
a.

Expand service capacity to meet the needs of all offenders.

Research Action Step:

68

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

• Assess the capacity of the system to meet the specialized
service needs of offenders, specifically special need offenders
such as female, older, mentally ill and dual diagnosis
offenders, and to evaluate pilot programming.
c.

Funding Action Steps:

• Support and evaluate pilot programming that addresses the
needs of special populations while expanding the availability
of the full range of services available to all offenders.

• Provide adequate funding to meet the growing need for
intervention services for offenders and their families to prevent
further criminal justice system involvement.
5.

Objective:

Create and maximize resources.

a. Funding Action Step:

• Explore the availability of resources outside the criminal
justice system that may be used for services for offenders and
their families, create partnerships with agencies to avoid
competition for resources, and work toward use of these
resources to coordinate their effective use.
b. Policy Action Steps:

• Use partnerships to foster policies that emphasize coordinated
planning between all agencies serving offenders and their
families. Programs that have demonstrated effective
intervention should be fully funded.
•

Provide adequate resources for the defense of indigent
offenders.

c. Research Action Steps:

• Assess system capacity, current funding and professional
services that meet the need for competent and effective defense
of indigent offenders. This assessment should include a costanalysis of alternative strategies.

69

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• Examine current procedures, funding and legislation affecting
defense services to determine if adequate resources are
available for the defense of indigent offenders.

Priority Issue 3
The cohesion and communication among criminal justice
agencies must be improved.

One of the key issues identified by the committees was the lack of cohesion and
communication among criminal justice agencies. Participants agreed that all
criminal justice entities need to act as part of a system, rethinking the role each
plays and developing strategies to best effect needed change and maximize
limited resources. This evolving partnership of agencies must understand its
power to help offenders change and its responsibility to provide them access to
the services that will facilitate that change.
Offender Services Advisory Committee members considered the
recommendations of the Victims of Violent Crime Advisory Committee that
called for the criminal justice system to become victim focused. Members
strongly rejected this notion, saying that while the criminal justice system can do
more to be senstitive to the needs of victims and to work toward elimination of
revictimization by the system, the focus must remain on offenders.
Advisory Committee members pointed to the Balanced and Restorative Justice
model embraced by the juvenile justice system as a good example of the
appropriate role victims play in the administration of justice. In this model,
victims are given a voice in the sanctions imposed on offenders and emphasis is
placed on making amends for offenses, but the core of this model is the
restoration of the offender to the community. Members stongly stated that
without this focus on offender restoration, the criminal justice system cannot
reduce recidivism and may create more victims. Committee members agreed that
the criminal justice system does not have to choose between justice for offenders
or victims, and instead advocated for a balanced allocation of resources for
offender and victim services and continued efforts to make the criminal justice
system more victim sensitive.
The Advisory Committee felt that communities are the key to earlier intervention
and offender rehabilitation. Sensationalized media coverage fosters inaccurate
perceptions of crime and promotes crime policy that reacts to community fears
rather than accurate information. Communities that have better access to more
balanced and impartial information on crime demand more balanced and
reasonable policy from decision-makers.
Members noted, however, that

70

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

communities too often feel that programs are imposed upon them without
appropriate input and due consideration of the culture of the community, and
supported strong initiatives to involve communities in partnerships for change. In
order to be full partners, however, communities need to accept that both the
offenders and their families are part of the community.
In his work on a national assessment of Strategic Approaches to Community
Safety Initiatives (SACSI), Dr. James Coldren of the University of Illinois at
Chicago observed that involvement of communities as full partners is a complex
process. The first steps necessary are system acceptance and commitment to
change, and the development of common goals across system agencies.
Communities must receive training to be full partners in this collaboration, and
the partnership must build a broad base of involvement and employ open
communication to be successful. Though the development of this type of
community and system collaboration will involve sharing power as well as
responsibility, it promises to be one of the most effective steps toward building
offender capacity for change.
A.

Goal: Build partnerships among stakeholders.

1.

Objective:
Create a dialogue involving criminal justice professionals,
service providers, researchers, community leaders, and members of the
faith and medical communities, to foster collaboration and develop a
common goal(s).
a.

Research Action Step:

• Identify opportunities for collaboration.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Establish funding criteria supportive of collaboration.
2.

Objective:
Identify and address barriers to information sharing among
partners and potential participants.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Research the informational needs of collaborating agencies,
and identify benefits, restrictions, and limitations for sharing
information between agencies and service providers.

71

 State Criminal Justice Plan

3.

Objective:
Implement ongoing evaluation of the collaboration and
train partners to equip them for full participation.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Identify best practices for community capacity building, and
assessing training needs of collaborating partners.

• Compile collaborative models and assessment tools used to
assess the health of partnerships.
b.

Policy Action Step:

• Support policies that require collaboration and training to
foster effective collaboration.

72

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

VICTIMS OF VIOLENT CRIME

D

iscussion group participants at the Criminal Justice Planning Assembly
and members of the Victims of Crime Advisory Committee identified a
number of critical issues facing the criminal justice system and victim
service providers. A variety of issues and topics relating to the system's
response to victims were discussed, and these issues have been prioritized, and
associated goals and objectives to address them have been developed.
The overarching need identified was to foster a paradigm shift to encourage the
system to be more responsive to victims. It was felt the system as a whole needed
to be more focused on the victim. While much is being done well, a number of
ways to improve the system were identified. The continuation of programs and
policies that have proven to be effective was encouraged, as was their use as
models. It was felt that the paradigm shift needed to start with those in leadership
roles and it must be actively encouraged and conveyed to all members of the
system.
Specific goals for the group included making the system more accountable,
enhancing data collection, providing training for all members of the criminal
justice system and victim service providers, strengthening and expanding victim
services, and increasing collaboration among those involved with victims of
crime. After the Assembly, the Authority solicited written feedback on the
outcomes of the Assembly related to victims of crime. Responses to the request
supported these goals and objectives.
These goals and objectives closely mirror those developed on a national level.
The document, New Directions from the Field: Victims' Rights and Services for
the 21st Century (Office for Victims of Crime, 1998), lists five global challenges
for responding to victims of crime. All of these challenges were identified, in full
or in part, by the Advisory Committee as needing to be addressed in Illinois and
they are a part of this plan for improving the response of the criminal justice
system in Illinois.

Priority Issue 1
The State can learn more about the needs of victims and the
impact of current efforts through additional data and enhanced
data collection efforts.
In the course of its meetings, the Victims of Violent Crime Advisory Committee
reviewed various data and identified numerous gaps and additional information
needs for making sound decisions about victim service needs and policy
considerations. Participants felt that available data was particularly insufficient in

73

 State Criminal Justice Plan

terms of victimization trends and service needs. Additional data was also needed
to determine the impact of services and to identify the most effective services.
Improvements in several areas were deemed especially needed to help
characterize the provision of crime victim services and the criminal justice
system’s response to victims of crime. These included:

• Enhancements to the Illinois State Police's uniform crime reporting
(UCR) program to capture more victim and incident information;

• The creation of a statewide crime victimization survey; and,
• The collection and sharing of complete and accurate information about
criminal case decisions (e.g. filing of charges, final disposition, etc.).
Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Data
The Advisory Committee felt that UCR data maintained by the Illinois State
Police is limited and should include more information about the crime victim such
as age, race, and relationship to offender. In addition, they indicated a need to
collect data related to children who may have witnessed the crime. Current UCR
data related to victim information is extremely limited. Without this information,
the group felt that it is difficult to accurately assess who victims are and what
their needs might be. For example, it was noted that current UCR data does not
distinguish between child and adult victims of sexual assault. This inability to
distinguish the age of the victim makes it difficult to make decisions about where
to place resources, because crime-specific victimization rates, costs, and other
factual information is not available for analysis.
Victimization Survey
The Advisory Committee also felt there is a need for a victimization survey
specific to Illinois. Participants felt such information was necessary to more
accurately capture victimization rates in Illinois, as many victims never report
crimes to the police. According to information collected in the National Crime
Victimization Survey (NCVS), only a fraction of crime victims actually report
their victimization to police. The group felt a state victimization survey would
allow service providers and criminal justice professionals to better understand
victims' perceptions of services and treatment by the system. The survey may also
identify factors impacting a victim's decision to report a crime to the police.

Information on Criminal Case Decisions

74

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

The Advisory Committee also felt information related to decisions made at both
the law enforcement and prosecution levels were needed. Participants agreed that
case-level information such as why an offender was not arrested or why charges
were not filed needs to be collected. It was felt that this information would
provide insight into the reasons for these outcomes and would help to hold the
system more accountable for its decisions. For this reason, the objective and
action steps related to this topic are addressed elsewhere.
Information Sharing
The Advisory Committee also emphasized the need for agencies to share data
whenever possible so that the system can be more effective. While information
sharing should not impinge on the need to maintain confidentiality, it is felt that
information sharing allows individual agencies and groups of agencies to plan
more effectively and make better-informed decisions. Therefore, data collection
by service providers and criminal justice agencies needs to be coordinated to
reduce duplication of efforts and to collect data that benefits as many as possible.
Users must also be able to extract data so that it is as useful and reliable as
possible.
Participants in the group were cognizant of the fact that while additional data
collection was needed, such collection would have an impact on the system.
Group members acknowledged that increased workloads from additional data
collection could not only lessen time available for service provision, but also
increase the likelihood of inaccurate data. Thus, careful planning for these
foreseen hardships is essential before designating additional data collection
responsibilities. Specifically, the Advisory Committee stated that as systems are
developed and rolled out, funds should be identified to train personnel and to hire
additional staff to accommodate any increase in workloads.
A.

Goal: Improve the State's information about crime victims and their
victimization experiences.

1.

Objective:
Implement a revised uniform crime reporting program in
the State that captures more information about the incident, crime victims,
and offenders.
a.

Policy Action Steps:

• Form an interagency committee to determine what additional
data needs to be collected and to develop a data collection plan.

• Develop a policy that makes UCR reporting compliance a
requirement for the funding of law enforcement agencies.

75

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• As agencies adopt systems that can be integrated, policies
should be written that address how and with whom information
can be shared.

• Encourage information sharing among agencies by making it a
condition of funding.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify funding available to support the development and
implementation phases of the enhanced data system.

• As the system is developed and/or software implemented,
identify funds to train personnel on the system and to allow for
the hiring of additional personnel as needed to cover any
increases in workloads.
2.

Objective:
a.

Implement a statewide crime victimization survey.

Research Action Step:

• Examine statewide and local victimization surveys conducted
in other states.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify potential funding sources for a victimization survey
project.

Priority Issue 2
Training can be improved to enhance the quality of service
provided to victims by criminal justice personnel and victim
service providers.
The Advisory Committee felt strongly that additional training was necessary for
all persons in the criminal justice system and for victim service providers.
Training was seen as a priority in all areas of the system, because many of the
current training initiatives for professionals do not sufficiently address the needs
and rights of victims. Training for all entities should incorporate a victim focus in
the training curriculum to ensure victims are treated with sensitivity and
compassion, and to insure their rights are being met. By including a victim-

76

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

perspective in all training, criminal justice professionals will more effectively
respond to victims.
Support for this training issue is also found in the Handbook on Justice for
Victims (United Nations Office for Drug Control and Prevention, 1999) which
calls for practitioners to be sensitive to the needs, concerns, and rights of victims.
The handbook was developed as a manual on the use and application of the
Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice For Victims of Crime and Abuse of
Power that was adopted by the United Nations in 1985. It found that in many
areas, victims have not received the attention and support they deserve from the
criminal justice system.
The Advisory Committee also felt those who need training the most are often the
ones who do not receive it and, therefore, mandatory training was recommended.
It was noted that officers and prosecutors frequently do not attend victim specific
training when given the choice to attend training on another topic area.
In addition to training for individual entities based on their roles in the system, the
Advisory Committee felt that balanced, multidisciplinary training is needed for all
professions in the criminal justice system. Multi-disciplinary training was
recognized as a way to help professionals from different parts of the system work
more effectively together and to allow the parties involved to better understand
each other’s roles in the system and how they effect victims.
Training must also be sensitive to the culture and context of the community in
which it is being presented. This is particularly important when working with
underserved communities, such as minorities and residents of rural geographic
areas.
Advisory Committee members agreed that curriculum requirements should be
instituted, and training should be provided before individuals enter their
profession. The group also agreed training should be provided on an ongoing
basis to reinforce what was previously learned, to expand knowledge, and to
acquire new information as it becomes available.
A.

Goal: The State should improve and expand training to all criminal
justice professionals who work with victims.

1. Objective:
Develop or revise training for criminal justice professionals
to include a victim perspective, and ensure that training is tailored to the
context of the community and its population.
a.

77

Research Action Steps:

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• Undertake an evaluation of existing training to determine
where gaps exist in the current curriculum.

• Evaluate existing training with a victim perspective to
determine if it is having the intended impact.

• Determine ways to make training more accessible to
professionals in rural areas, which may require greater
financial assistance to overcome accessibility issues.
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Identify funding to develop and implement training programs
that incorporate a victim perspective.
c.

Policy Action Steps:

• Encourage funding agencies to require grant recipients to
include a victim perspective in any training initiatives being
funded.

• Develop standardized training and materials that can be
tailored to meet the needs of local agencies.
2.

Objective:
Provide training for new professionals as well as experienced
professionals to improve their response to victims.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Determine effective programs and also cost effective ways of
training large numbers of new and experienced professionals.
b.

Policy Action Steps:

• Develop policies and enact legislation (as appropriate) to
increase the number of required training hours for criminal
justice professionals on victim issues and rights.
3. Objective:
Develop multidisciplinary training for criminal justice
professionals to help them understand each other's roles and responsibilities as
they pertain to victims.
a.

Research Action Step:

78

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

• Standardize training, based on identification of successful
models, which help criminal justice professionals understand
each other's roles and responsibilities as they pertain to victims.
b.

Policy Action Steps:

• Encourage criminal justice professionals to include support
personnel who interact directly with victims in any training
initiatives.

• Give encouragement to professional degree programs to
increase the amount of time spent learning about victim issues.

Priority Issue 3
Criminal justice system personnel and victim service providers
can improve their response to victims by increasing
collaboration.
The Advisory Committee felt that collaboration was the key to addressing many
of the critical issues identified. While true collaboration is not easily achieved,
members determined that collaboration to improve the system's response to
victims was a major priority. The group believes that community members and
allied professionals, such as health care providers and educators, need to be
included in collaborative efforts.
Participants also felt that collaboration would allow limited resources to be used
more effectively by minimizing any duplication of efforts. Members of the
Advisory Committee acknowledged that true collaboration could not happen
without buy-in from the heads of agencies. Members of the group felt those in
leadership positions must make the commitment to improving the system's
response to victims and must reinforce this priority through their protocols,
actions, and words.
Incentives for collaboration were also discussed. Some participants thought
grants should require collaboration and others felt additional resources were
needed to promote system collaboration. Others stated that the addition of
resources or grant requirements should not be what induces collaboration. They
felt collaboration should be an inherent part of the system's philosophy and the
incentive should be the improved response of the system to victims of crime.
Discussion also centered on the need for funders to collaborate in their efforts to
make the best use of limited resources. Collaboration would allow for more
creative uses of available resources, help to avoid duplication of services, and

79

 State Criminal Justice Plan

allow funding agencies to better determine gaps in services. Participants also
discussed the problems encountered by service providers who are required to
report different information to multiple funding agencies. Many of the
participants called for uniform grant reporting requirements and felt collaboration
among funding agencies could help facilitate a resolution to this problem.
The Advisory Committee also felt service providers need to collaborate with each
other to reduce the duplication of services, and ensure a more coordinated effort
in serving victims. Further, participants agreed that collaboration might alleviate
competition among service providers for funding and territories.
A.

Goal: Increase and improve collaboration among criminal justice
personnel and other professionals who work with victims to minimize the
impact of victimization.

1.

Objective:
Identify and implement ways for all criminal justice and
victim service professionals to gain an increased understanding of other
agencies’ goals and perspectives.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Conduct a study to identify programs that effectively improve
the understanding of agencies' roles and responsibilities.
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Identify the availability of funds for roundtable discussions and
conferences that allow criminal justice personnel the
opportunity to interact and learn more about each other’s roles.

• Identify funds to support continuing multidisciplinary
meetings.
2.

Objective:
Promote commitment and collaboration from top-level
agency employees.
a.

Policy Action Steps:

• Provide necessary information to top level employees so that
they understand the benefits collaborative initiatives.

• Hold agencies involved in collaborative efforts accountable for
their participation.
b.

Funding Action Step:

80

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

• Funding agencies should support projects that include a
collaborative component.
3.

Objective:
collaborate.
a.

Develop and offer training on how to effectively

Research Action Steps:

• Identify existing training programs that focus on collaboration
and evaluate which programs would work best in Illinois.

• Determine the goals to be accomplished through the training.
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Make funding available for basic training and on-going
technical support as collaborative efforts are undertaken.

• Foster collaboration by making training a funding requirement
for collaborative projects.
4.

Objective:
Develop policies of collaboration that include all levels of
personnel within agencies.
a.

Policy Action Step:

• Develop policies for collaboration among all levels of
personnel within an agency.
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Provide funding to support the development of protocols.
• Encourage funding agencies to require grant recipients to
develop protocols with partner agencies, even if the funded
project is not collaborative in nature.

• Encourage funding agencies to support evaluation of
collaborative efforts.
The Advisory Committee agreed that the system needs to be more accountable to
victims and the community at large. Three primary issues were identified: the
lack of awareness of victims’ rights by criminal justice professionals and victims

81

 Priority Issue 4

State Criminal Justice Plan

The criminal justice system should be held more accountable to
crime victims.
themselves, the lack of recourse for victims who believe their rights have been
violated, and the need to hold the system accountable for its actions.
While the committee believes that victims, criminal justice professionals, and the
public all need to be better informed on victims' rights and issues related to
victimization, they felt it was best to divide these into two separate objectives.
The Advisory Committee believed this was necessary in order to emphasize the
more in-depth needs of victims and the fact that victims may require different
methods of receiving this information than criminal justice professionals or the
public.
The Advisory Committee felt that criminal justice personnel were often unaware
of the specific rights of victims. Often times, criminal justice professionals are
unfamiliar with victims' rights or they do not know who is responsible for
protecting these rights. As with criminal justice personnel, it was also noted that
victims are often unaware of their rights. The committee discussed the need to
inform victims of their rights as they proceed through the criminal justice system,
in much the same way that offenders are informed of their rights. The group felt
training for criminal justice professionals on the rights of victims is extremely
important as is developing additional means of informing victims of their rights.
The group also discussed how the media could be instrumental in increasing
public knowledge of victim issues. The group felt that the media can have a very
positive impact on getting information out about available services, helping to
identify victims, overcoming myths and misconceptions, and increasing public
understanding of the issues faced by victims. However, it was felt that as of late,
the media has shifted it sympathies away from victims and has instead become
more sympathetic towards offenders. Recent attention to inmates on death row
was cited as an example of this shift.
The discussion then focused on how media attention can lead to an increase in
disclosure, which in turn can lead to an increase in requests for services. For
example, after airing programs on sexual assault or domestic violence, it was
noted that hotline calls increase dramatically. It was felt that victim service
agencies must be prepared to provide additional services after attention is focused
on victimization issues. Participants agreed that a strong partnership between
service providers and the media could help to improve the coverage given to
victims, and help to prepare service providers for an increase in requests for
services after media attention. Members also felt that service providers need to be
aware of prevention /education programs taking place in their communities in
order to respond effectively to any resulting increases in the need for services.

82

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Discussion also ensued on the lack of recourse for victims who believe their
rights have been violated. While a bill of rights exists for victims in Illinois, there
is no formal method of addressing violations of those rights. Ideas such as a
statewide review board were suggested, but participants felt when and how such a
board would be used would need to be discussed at length.
The lack of remedies for violations of victims' rights is not unique to Illinois, but
is recognized as a problem nationally. The document, New Directions from the
Field: Victims' Rights and Services for the 21st Century (Office for Victims of
Crime, 1998), finds that the rights of victims are frequently not enforced. It is
believed that this is due in large part to the fact that enactment of these rights has
not been incorporated into the everyday actions of the criminal justice system. As
there is also a lack of enforcement mechanisms, victims are often without a means
of recourse when they believe their rights have been violated.
In addition to the need to develop a means of recourse for violation of victims’
rights, participants felt that the system needed to be held accountable in other
ways. As was discussed under the section addressing the need to improve data
collection efforts, members of the group believe collecting information on arrest
and charging decisions is important. It was felt that by reporting this information,
prosecutorial and law enforcement decisions could be monitored and that these
entities could be held more accountable for their actions.
The group
acknowledges that it will be difficult to collect information on decision making
for a number of reasons, including the fact that these agencies may perceive the
sharing of this type of information as a risk to agency discretion.
A.

Goal: Hold the criminal justice more accountable to crime victims and
the community at large.

1.

Objective:
Collect data related to decisions made at both the law
enforcement and prosecution levels.

a.

Research Action Steps:

• Review what other states have done to make case decision
information available to victims.

• Convene groups to discuss the possibility of undertaking an
initiative in Illinois to better inform crime victims of case
decisions.

83

 State Criminal Justice Plan

2.

Objective:
Develop a strategy to ensure victims are informed of
available services and educated about their rights.

3.

Objective:
Educate the public and criminal justice professionals about
victims’ rights and the availability of victim services.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Conduct a study to determine the extent to which victims are
currently being informed of their rights throughout the criminal
justice process.

• Identify formal efforts on both the national and local level to
inform victims of their rights.

• Research the most cost-effective means of educating the
greatest number of people about victims' rights and the
availability of services.
b.

Policy Action Step:

• Convene a statewide committee to review information and to
develop a comprehensive strategy for informing victims of
their rights and available services. This committee should also
be responsible for coordinating the development of training
and resource materials.
c.

Funding Action Steps:

• Identify available funds for the development and dissemination
of resource materials, training, and publicity campaigns.

• Identify available funds to support education efforts and to
evaluate their impact.

• Meet additional demands for services due to increased
awareness by asking funders to make additional funds
available to service providers.
4.

Objective:
Develop a system of recourse for victims who feel their
rights have been violated.
a.

Research Action Steps:

84

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

• Determine the types of recourse currently available in Illinois
for each individual right.

• Research ombudsman programs and programs in other states
that have been established to ensure the rights of victims are
being met.
b.

Policy Action Steps:

• Form a committee to evaluate these programs and recommend
a system of recourse to be adopted by the state. The work of
the committee should include input from victims of crime, an
analysis of the status of services currently available to victims,
the importance of a system of recourse relative to the other
service needs of victims, consideration of whether legislation
would be necessary to institute a system of recourse for
victims, and possible funding sources to support a system of
recourse for victims.

Priority Issue 5
Minimize the impact of victimization by ensuring the minimum
provision of basic services to all victims of crime.

The Advisory Committee identified the need to strengthen and expand services to
victims of crime to minimize the impact of victimization. It was felt that
strengthening and expanding basic services would help improve the system’s
response to victims and their families. The committee discussed the need to
reinforce the infrastructure of what is currently being provided. They felt
opportunities for higher salaries, training, and funding for materials and
equipment needs would help to improve the overall quality of services being
provided. The committee noted that it is important to build upon services known
to be effective. These services need to be identified among all providers, and
coordinated to ensure they are complementing each other. Several members felt
that funding agencies should not pressure service providers to expand services but
allow them to strengthen what already exists.
Discussants noted that the expansion and strengthening of services should not be
limited to those service providers within the criminal justice system. The
advantage of external victim services is that many victims do not report crimes
and never enter the system. Therefore, they are not eligible for the services the
system provides. It was also noted that external advocates can be used as a means
of monitoring the response of the criminal justice system to victims of crime.
85

 State Criminal Justice Plan

The Advisory Committee also identified a number of barriers to services
including the lack of childcare services for children of victims receiving services;
gender difference between victim/service provider for crimes of a sensitive
nature; a lack of housing options for domestic violence victims; familiarity of
residents in rural areas and the lack of transportation in these areas; and the fact
that some victims do not desire services from the criminal justice system.
In the course of a series of Advisory Committee meetings, data presentations
stimulated conversation on a number of different topics and led to requests for
additional information. Based on this additional information, participants
discussed the need to increase services to populations with special needs such as
those in rural areas, the elderly, the disabled, children, female offenders, and nonEnglish speaking victims. There was a great deal of discussion as to what
constituted basic services and what was meant by specialized services for special
populations. For example, participants disagreed as to whether children should be
considered a special population as they have been receiving services for quite
some time.
Members of the committee talked about the needs of children as victims of and
witnesses to crimes. Participants agreed that children have special needs in
responding to victimization experiences and therefore need specialized services.
It was noted that children are often victimized by a member of their household,
and this makes the provision of services more difficult. It was noted that the
immediate health and safety needs of children must be addressed before helping
them deal with experiences of victimization. Thus, more collaboration is needed
between DCFS, child advocacy centers and other victim service agencies working
with children so that all service needs can be effectively coordinated. Members
also felt that through increased education-prevention efforts there could be
quicker recognition and more accurate assessments by teachers and school
administrators of child victimization.

86

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

The Advisory Committee was also very interested in preventing child victims
from becoming abusers themselves. The group requested additional information
on this cycle of victimization and perpetration. The literature suggests that any
child maltreatment, especially during the early years, does increase the victims’
likelihood of committing future acts of delinquency. One study found that 68
percent of the incarcerated adult male felons reported some form of early
childhood victimization before age 12, either physical abuse, sexual abuse, or

Reports of Employee Abuse of Long-Term Care
Residents, FYs 1994-2000
1200

1000

Reports

800

Physical
Sexual

600
Verbal
Neglect

400

200

0
FY94

FY95

FY96

FY97

FY98

FY99

FY00

Source: Illinois Department of Public Health, Central Complaint Registry

neglect (Widom and Weeks, 1998). This study also found that violent offenders
reported more childhood neglect (20 percent) than nonviolent offenders (6
percent). This suggests the need for criminal justice and social service agencies to
take a proactive, preventive stance to stop the cycle of violence. Members of the
committee support the need for early, comprehensive services for children who
are victims of crime.
During a presentation on the profile of victims receiving services in Illinois, it
was noted that male victims of crime receive services less often than female
victims. From experience, members identified several reasons they believe men
are less likely to seek services including the idea that men grieve differently and
that they tend to seek services later in the process such as when the offender is
released. This led to a discussion on how services might need to be targeted in
non-traditional ways to meet the needs of this population.
Participants also discussed the challenges facing victims and service providers in
rural areas. Geographic isolation, the closeness of community members, and the
fear of outside support are unique issues facing victims from rural areas. Even

87

 State Criminal Justice Plan

when victims desire services, the availability of services in geographic proximity
to the victim is often very limited or non-existent. Map 1, entitled, "Combined
Crime rates and Victim Witness Programs by County, 1999" indicates, victims of
violent crime in many rural counties do not have a victim assistance program to
turn to for support and information.
The challenges faced by rural residents can be even greater for those in special
population groups. Map 2 entitled, “Counties with Highest Proportions of Special
Populations’ indicates, many of the counties with the highest proportion of
disabled and elderly populations are rural jurisdictions. Persons age 60 or older
are heavily concentrated in southeastern rural counties and along the Illinois
River. Disabled persons were also more prevalent in the southeastern section of
the State and a few counties bordering the Illinois River.
In addition, persons with limited or no English-speaking ability reside primarily
in the Chicago area. Members of the group noted that these factors need to be
taken into consideration when assessing need and determining the allocation of
resources. Members noted that elder abuse victims are often reluctant to
seek/utilize services. It was felt that elderly victims are a hidden population as no
one is actively looking for them and that many elderly persons do not realize they
are victims. While it was felt that education has helped to increase awareness of
elder abuse, it was agreed that more outreach is necessary. For example, many
members of the group stated that they would not know whom to contact if they
became aware of an elder abuse situation.
Statewide, the number of reported incidents of long-term care residents being
abused by employees has increased substantially, especially for neglect, as
illustrated in Figure 1. It is important to note that these are the number of reports
before being investigated. It should also be noted that disabled victims, especially
those who are reliant upon others to care for their personal needs, face many of
the same issues as elderly victims of crime. Both groups are at risk for abuse by
caretakers and often are concerned about retaliation by the caretaker for reporting
any incidents of abuse. In addition, elderly and disabled victims are often
concerned about other possible effects that reporting may have on their lives. Due
to a lack of caretaking resources, the reporting of abuse by a caretaker may result
in institutionalization of the victim against their will. Both groups also face issues
of physical accessibility to service providers and the court system.
Although the group felt that specialized services are needed, the group agreed that
additional specialized services should not be implemented until basic services are
sufficient. This recommendation was supported by the written input received as a
result of the Authority's solicitation for feedback on the goals and objectives of
the Victims of Crime Workgroup at the Assembly, and in the findings of a recent
survey of all VOCA grantees funded by the Authority.
MAP 1

88

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Jo
JoDaviess
Daviess
Daviess
Jo
Daviess
Jo
Jo
Daviess
Daviess
Jo
Jo
Daviess
Jo
Jo
Daviess
Daviess

Combined Crime Rates*
and Victim-Witness
Programs by County, 1999

Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone

Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson

Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago

177
177
177
177
177
177

311
311
311

Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake

McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry

Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle

Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll

Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane

De
DeKalb
Kalb
Kalb
De
De
De
Kalb
Kalb
De
DeKalb
Kalb
De
De
Kalb
Kalb

Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside

Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook

Du
DuPage
Page
Page
Du
Page
Du
Du
Page
Page
Du
Du
Page
Du
Du
Page
Page

Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall

Rock
Rock
Island
Island
Rock
Rock
RockIsland
Island
Island
Rock
Island
Rock
Island
Rock
Rock
Island
Island

Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau

Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry

Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam

Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer

Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark

Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson

Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston

409
409
409

212
212
212

Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell

Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton

21
21
21
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass

Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown

Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion

Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason

Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler

110
110
110

Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan

De
De
Witt
Witt
De
Witt
De
De
Witt
Witt
De
DeWitt
Witt
De
De
Witt
Witt

36
36
36
36
36
36

Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon

Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan

Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie

Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott

116
116
116
116
116
116

572
572
572
572
572
572

Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby

Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin

Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland

Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery

Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham

Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison

Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond

81
81
81
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion

209
209
209
209
209
209

Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay

Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton

Victim-witness program located within county
87
87
87
87
87
87

252
252
252

Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton

150
150
150

Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin

Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson

Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson

1,460 to 3,450 (24)

168
168
168

164
164
164

53
53
53
53
53
53

White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White

Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline

Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin

Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin

Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson

249
249
249
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski

Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac

Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander

* Crimes include violent Index offenses, domestic offenses, and verified
child abuse and neglect cases. Offenses that are both violent Index and
domestic are double counted; however, violent Index offenses comprise
less than 20 percent of domestic offenses.
Sources: Illinois State Police, Illinois Department of Children and Family
Services, Illinois Attorney General’s Office, and the U.S. Census Bureau

89

Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence

Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash

Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards

587
587
587
112
112
Union
Union
Union
112
Union
Union
Union
112
112
Union
Union
Union

319
319
319
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford

Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland

30
30
30
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne

Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson

Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington

Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark

Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper

St.
St.Clair
Clair
Clair
St.
Clair
St.
St.
Clair
Clair
St.
St.
Clair
St.
St.
Clair
Clair

Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe

Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph

1,010 to 1,460 (26)
690 to 1,010 (25)
270 to 690 (27)
*Rates based on 1998 population estimates

Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles

94
94
94

Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian

Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey

Rates per 100,000 population*

Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign

92
92
92

Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard

Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon

Boundaries enclose multiple counties served by
one victim-witness program

Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford

McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean

215
215
215

Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock

20
20
20

Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois

Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford

Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria

McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough

20
20
20
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun

Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee

Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall

Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox

313
313
313

Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike

Will
Will
Will
Will
Will
Will
Will
Will
Will

La
La
Salle
Salle
La
La
LaSalle
Salle
Salle
La
Salle
La
Salle
La
La
Salle
Salle

185
185
185

 State Criminal Justice Plan

MAP 2

Counties
Counties with
with
Highest Proportions
Proportions
Highest
of
of Special
Special Populations
Populations

Jo
Jo
Jo
Daviess
Daviess
Jo
Jo
JoDaviess
Daviess
Daviess
Daviess
Jo
Jo
Jo
Daviess
Daviess
Daviess

Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone
Boone

Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson
Stephenson

Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago
Winnebago

Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake
Lake

McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry
McHenry

Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle
Ogle

Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll
Carroll

Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane
Kane

De
De
DeKalb
Kalb
Kalb
Kalb
De
De
De
Kalb
Kalb
Kalb
De
De
De
Kalb
Kalb

Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside
Whiteside

Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook
Cook

Du
Du
Page
Page
Du
Du
DuPage
Page
Page
Du
Page
Du
Page
Du
Du
Page
Page

Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Lee
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall
Kendall

Rock
RockIsland
Island
Island
Rock
Island
Rock
Rock
Island
Island
Rock
Rock
Island
Rock
Rock
Island
Island

Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau
Bureau

Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Henry
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer
Mercer

Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Grundy
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam
Putnam

Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark
Stark

Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren
Warren

Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee
Kankakee

Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Marshall
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston
Livingston

Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox
Knox

Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson
Henderson

Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell
Tazewell

Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton
Fulton

Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois
Iroquois

Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford
Woodford

Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria
Peoria

McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough
McDonough

Will
Will
Will
Will
Will
Will
Will
Will
Will

La
La
Salle
Salle
La
La
LaSalle
Salle
Salle
La
Salle
La
Salle
La
La
Salle
Salle

Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford
Ford

McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean
McLean

Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock
Hancock

Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Adams
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown
Brown

Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion
Vermilion

Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason
Mason

Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler
Schuyler

Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan
Logan

Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard
Menard

Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass
Cass

Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Piatt
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon
Macon

Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Sangamon
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Morgan
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike
Pike

Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun
Calhoun

Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign
Champaign

De
De
De
Witt
Witt
De
De
DeWitt
Witt
Witt
Witt
De
De
De
Witt
Witt
Witt

Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Douglas
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie
Moultrie

Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott
Scott

Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Edgar
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles
Coles

Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Christian
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby
Shelby

Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Greene
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin
Macoupin

Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland
Cumberland

Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery
Montgomery

Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Jersey
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Fayette
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison
Madison

Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham
Effingham

Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper
Jasper

Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion
Marion

Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay
Clay

Counties
Counties
Countieswith
with
with24%
24%
24%---28%
28%
28%of
of
ofpersons
persons
persons
who
whoare
are
are60
60
60years
yearsof
ofage
ageor
orolder**
older**
who
are
60
years
of
age
or
older**
years
of
age
or
older**
who
who
who
are
are
60
60
years
of
age
or
older**
Counties
Counties
Counties
with
with
15%
15%
24%
24%
of
of
persons
persons
Counties
Counties
Counties with
with
with
with 15%
15%
15%
15% ------ 24%
24%
24%
24% of
of
of
of persons
persons
persons
persons
with
with
with aaa severe
severe
severe disability
disability
disability age
age
age 16
16
16 and
and
and
older*
older*
older*

Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence
Lawrence

Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland
Richland

Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash
Wabash

St.
St.
St.
Clair
Clair
St.
St.
St.Clair
Clair
Clair
Clair
St.
St.
St.
Clair
Clair
Clair
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson
Jefferson

Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington
Washington

Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe

Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford
Crawford

Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond
Bond

Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton
Clinton

Counties
Counties
Counties with
with
with 1%-5%
1%-5%
1%-5% of
of
of persons
persons
persons who
who
who
with
1%-5%
of
persons
who
Counties
Counties
Counties
with
1%-5%
of
persons
who
speak
speak
speak
English
English
"not
"not
well"
well"
or
or
"not
"not
well
well
speak
speak
speak English
English
English
English "not
"not
"not
"not well"
well"
well"
well" or
or
or
or "not
"not
"not
"not well
well
well
well
at
at
at all*
all*
all*

Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark
Clark

Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne
Wayne

Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards
Edwards

Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Hamilton
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph
Randolph

Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry
Perry

White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White
White

Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Franklin
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson
Jackson

Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson
Williamson

Union
Union
Union
Union
Union
Union
Union
Union
Union

Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline
Saline

Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin
Gallatin

Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Pope
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin
Hardin

Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson
Johnson

Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski
Pulaski

Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac
Massac

Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander
Alexander

* Based on 1990 census data
** Based on 1999 population estimates
Source: U.S. Census Bureau

90

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Defining basic services was one of the objectives established at the Criminal
Justice Planning Assembly. During a subsequent meeting, a lively and at times
difficult discussion ensued as to what constitutes basic services. In the end, the
group came to consensus that basic services vary by type of victimization and by
population. For example, shelter services would be a basic service for domestic
violence victims but would not be considered a basic service for robbery victims.
The group determined that a victim has a right to the following basic services:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Crisis Intervention
Advocacy (Legal, criminal justice, personal, and medical)
Counseling/Therapy
Shelter
Case Management
Referrals and Information
Transportation
Compensation Assistance and Emergency Assistance

The Advisory Committee also felt that services should be victim-centered,
confidential, and appropriate. It was also felt that certain services needed to be
available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In addition to these basic services
for victims of crime, the group felt that prevention, education, and community
outreach were basic services that the community has a right to expect.
A.

Goal: Strengthen and expand basic services to victims of crime, and
develop additional services to minimize the impact of victimization.

1.

Objective:
being met.
a.

Ensure that the basic service needs of victims of crime are

Funding Action Steps:

• Continue current initiatives.
• Provide services to underserved or unserved areas.
• Expand and strengthen current services.
• Implement new initiatives after the first three funding
recommendations are adequately addressed.

b.

91

Policy Action Steps:

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• Continue discussion and definition of basic victim services.
• Determine what constitutes basic services for each individual
type of service provider.
2.

Objective:
a.

Identify the most effective services and strengthen them.

Research Action Steps:

• Conduct victim-centered evaluations of programs that target
impact measures of performance and utilize methodologies that
include victim input.

• Evaluate innovative and experimental programs in addition to
existing programs.

• Identify the tools and resources needed to strengthen existing
programs.

• Identify agencies with waiting lists for services.
• Identify geographic areas with gaps in services.
b.

Legislative Action Steps:

• Consider requesting legislative changes in the VOCA
guidelines to broaden the range of allowable activities to
include areas such as program administrative costs.
c.

Policy Action Steps:

• Provide technical assistance to grant-funded programs
performing below expected levels.

• Discontinue programs that are found to be ineffective even
after assistance is provided.
3.

Objective:
Develop priorities for specialized services after basic
services are fully sufficient.
a.

Research Action Steps:

92

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

• Continue to assess the availability of victim service programs
and gaps in services.

• Assess and prioritize specialized service needs.
4.

Objective:
a.

Identify non-traditional resources to augment existing ones.

Policy Action Steps:

• Funding agencies should provide technical assistance to grant
recipients to identify additional funding sources.

• Give special emphasis to the identification of additional
funding sources for resource needs such as administrative costs
that may not be covered by current funding sources.

• Encourage local government to provide additional financial
support to victim service programs.
5.

Objective:
Encourage funding agencies to work together to identify
any duplication of efforts and gaps in services and to also use the funds in
ways so they compliment each other.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Identify instances of duplication of victim services.
b.

Policy Action Steps:

• Encourage state-level funding agencies to coordinate funding
efforts in order to maximize resources and ensure victim
services are accessible statewide.

• Encourage funding agencies to establish priority areas and
recommend funding levels in light of other initiatives.

• Encourage local funding agencies to coordinate funding efforts
in order to maximize the use of available resources.
In conclusion, the Victims of Violent Crime Advisory Committee felt that much
was being done well, but that the achievement of the above listed goals would
enable the criminal justice system and victim service providers to be more
responsive to victims of violent crime.

93

 State Criminal Justice Plan

COMMUNITY CAPACITY BUILDING

M

embers of the Community Capacity Building (CCB) Advisory
Committee worked to define terms and concepts associated with
community capacity building. Participants also explored the process of
mobilizing communities to define problems and develop solutions to
public safety concerns. In addition, participants shared their experiences with
CCB efforts and identified issues that foster and inhibit the ability of stakeholders
to embrace CCB. Based on a series of meetings, the CCB Advisory Committee
identified three priority issues and corresponding goals to serve as a philosophical
overlay for the work being done in the other advisory committees, and to support
the facilitation of CCB in Illinois.

Priority Issue 1
There needs to be a commitment on the part of Illinois' justice
system stakeholders to change. Criminal justice stakeholders
need to find public safety solutions in concert with communities.
Systems Change
The discussions of the CCB Advisory Committee focused on the need for
criminal justice agencies to recognize the community as a critical partner in
identifying problems and developing solutions related to public safety. While
several agencies throughout Illinois are already working closely with the
community, it is important for all criminal justice agencies statewide to think
more broadly to include the community as an equal partner. Non-traditional
partnerships should be formed with groups such as residents, community groups,
faith leaders, schools, social service providers, and the media. These entities
should become permanent partners in the actions, policies, and philosophies of
the criminal justice system. By maximizing their ability to identify and resolve
problems, the community will become a collective body of resources providing
valuable partnerships to criminal justice agencies.
Advisory committee participants discussed possible barriers to proposing a
statewide goal of including the community as a stakeholder in public safety
partnerships. First, stakeholders must be willing to implement policies that
encourage collaboration. This collaboration will require compromise, honest
discussion, and coalition building. Review of the relevant literature supported the
concerns presented by the Advisory Committee. For example, in an overview of
a Bureau of Justice Assistance workshop in 1998, representatives discussed the
obstacles they had to overcome in their efforts to implement community courts.
They found that system resistance to collaboration often includes issues of turf or
boundaries. Collaborative community-focused issues often disrupt the status quo

94

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

by requiring partners to share or reallocate resources to achieve the common goal
of the collaborative.
In addition, involving the community as a stakeholder will challenge traditional
thinking about how the criminal justice system operates, and agencies that
embrace the philosophy may have to commit to “systems change.” The inclusion
of the community may challenge existing policies and require reorganization.
Based on experience, several Advisory Committee members insisted that
bureaucracy could not be ignored because it may be a factor in an agency’s ability
to commit to systems change. Certain stakeholders have an obligation to operate
within established parameters, and existing legislation, mandates, agency policies,
or leadership may not permit the flexibility needed to implement changes that
foster the inclusion of the community as a genuine partner.
Advisory committee participants requested that Authority staff administer a
survey to assess policies and efforts within their own agencies that support the
community as a partner. Survey responses were received from representatives
affiliated with criminal justice, community and state-based planning, health care,
and academic institutions. The surveys provided some interesting feedback
regarding organizational philosophies and the application of philosophies. In
general, respondents expressed organizational support for community
partnerships. However, most of respondents were not actually displaying CCB
support in their efforts. The majority of responses to the question about their
agencies’ role in community capacity building indicated that agencies are
supportive of collaborative efforts but do not directly place themselves in the role
of partner.
Statewide Approach
The group agreed that making the community a genuine stakeholder was an
important first step for the criminal justice system. As discussions continued, it
was obvious that the availability of a model for community capacity building
would then ensure that all stakeholders shared the same vision for including the
community in the functions of the criminal justice system. The group insisted
that a statewide approach does not mean adopting a formula for addressing public
safety concerns in individual neighborhoods. Rather, a statewide approach means
defining terms and concepts, and providing stakeholders with the tools to foster
CCB.
The need to identify a successful approach to CCB became even more evident as
the theme of “community” continually emerged during the discussions of each of
the other Advisory Committees, including Drugs and Violent Crime, Offender
Services, Victims of Violent Crime, Juvenile Crime, and Information Systems and
Technology. These groups discussed the importance of engaging communities in
public safety problem solving, and they were looking to develop solutions based
on models identified in the CCB Advisory Committee. While the CCB Advisory

95

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Committee also talked briefly about specific populations that could benefit from
community capacity building – such as juvenile and adult offenders -- they
concluded that their work should focus on defining CCB and emphasizing the
need to integrate the concept into the criminal justice system.
In addition, during various presentations on the work of the CCB Advisory
Committee, including presentations to state associations and the Authority’s
Planning and Research Committee, attendees continued to ask for clarity on the
definition of CCB. Questions were raised concerning the composition of
stakeholders and the community, the concept of CCB and its timing: (1) is it
really community development?; and (2) does it only need to occur when a
specific event occurs or is it ongoing?
The CCB Advisory Committee started to craft definitions and concepts of
community capacity by sharing their experiences with community partnerships,
and then highlighting necessary elements for successful collaborations. Authority
staff also started to compile a literature review to support the work of the group.
Throughout the group discussions and the literature review, collective efficacy
was defined as the ability of a community to marshal the resources needed to
improve the overall community well being. Communities that understand their
current needs and available resources can be mobilized into action.
Governmental agencies have a responsibility to reach out to community
organizations and develop cooperative approaches to utilize community resources
(Spergel and Kane, 1991). This ability to respond collaboratively to community
needs is often seen in areas that do not seem to need extra social resources.
Unfortunately, areas in need of social support services often do not display a trust
of social institutions, agencies or other community residents.
The issue of collective efficacy is being studied in-depth as part of the Project on
Human Development in Chicago Neighborhoods. Preliminary findings of the
study conducted by researchers at Harvard School of Public Health (Felton and
Visher, 1997), indicate that there is a strong connection between crime in a
neighborhood and the level of collective efficacy. Those neighborhoods with
higher levels of collective efficacy demonstrate lower levels of crime. Further,
researchers from Northwestern University evaluated the Chicago Alternative
Police Strategy and learned that community mobilization is often most needed in
neighborhoods with the least resources for mobilization or lack of collective
efficacy (Skogan, 1999).
Advisory committee participants noted that they have faced several challenges
when working within communities. First, while the most affected people need to
lead a mobilization, this population is usually the least responsive. Sustainability
of community partnerships was also addressed as a barrier faced by stakeholders
with the responsibility of leading community mobilization efforts. Mobilizing a
community after a crisis is always easy; the challenge is keeping the community

96

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

involved when things are working well. Similarly, it is difficult to keep
communities interested in developing solutions once problems have been
identified.
Advisory committee members agreed that it is necessary to integrate issues of
concern relative to geographic needs as well as needs of certain populations.
Specific responses must be tailored because no two communities or
neighborhoods are the same. Every neighborhood will have distinct strengths and
weaknesses, and therefore, the wealth of each group must be assessed
individually.
At the Governor’s Summit on Gangs, Guns, and Drugs, convened in September
2000, representatives from criminal justice agencies and community-based
organizations reinforced the need to empower communities by allowing them to
identify their local needs and priorities. The discussions in the gang prevention
breakout also insisted that State agencies must be responsible for coordinating
programming and funding strategies in order to avoid duplication and
disorganization at the local level.
Certain components continued to surface in the dialogue about the strengths and
weaknesses of CCB efforts undertaken by advisory committee members. Again,
while participants indicated that there is not a “one-size-fits-all” program, they
agreed that there are certain elements that can be identified in successfully
mobilizing communities to positively impact public safety. Specifically, based on
the experiences of the advisory committee members, they agreed that the
following components are essential to successful CCB efforts:

97

"

Assessing the Community. The assessment of a community includes
collecting and analyzing data, identifying leadership, determining
available resources, and examining community assets.

"

Community Mobilization. Mobilization can occur through education,
communication, and evidence that community participation will make
a difference. Mobilization can begin when a community is provided
with information in a way that is valuable and meaningful to them. It
is necessary to inform the community and then get their input. The
community must also be active in making choices because it is
imperative that a community buy into proposed solutions. Further, the
most affected people should lead the mobilization.

"

Continued Outreach. Once solutions have been identified and
programs have been implemented, key stakeholders must continue to
have a presence in the community.

"

Ongoing Assessment. Communities, as well as cooperating agencies,
need to re-evaluate the community, re-assess the composition of an

 State Criminal Justice Plan

ever-changing population, observe who the program is reaching and
who is not being helped, determine whether displacement is occurring,
and revisit solutions. The community must engage in an ongoing selfassessment of the problems and solutions.
"

Evaluation. Formal evaluation should be built into initiatives to
assess whether programs have the intended effect.

"

Coordinated System Response. Criminal justice agencies have a
responsibility to make sure their responses enhance, not duplicate,
existing efforts. Redundancy of efforts on the community level may
create confusion and frustration.

"

Training. Training, education and technical assistance are necessary
for all of the stakeholders. Training will enhance stakeholders' ability
and willingness to work collectively. Education and technical
assistance can also teach communities how to play an integral part in
planning and assessment.

The literature reviewed for this group supported the elements identified by the
members. In addition, the community mobilization model suggested by Spergel
and Kane delineates the following necessary components:
"

Community sense of need is necessary to get the attention of
stakeholders.

"

Community leadership is important to provide stakeholders with the
ability to guide planning and initiate activities.

"

Government and community collaboration is necessary to allow
community stakeholders the benefit of support in the form of grant
funding or technical assistance.

"

Problem assessment is an initial concrete activity holding the
stakeholders responsible for clearly identifying the specific needs of
the community.

"

Clarity of the problem prior to decision making is essential to keep
participants working toward a common goal.

"

Resource assessment facilitates the beginning of planning a response
to needs.

"

Systemic and cooperative solution plans will provide the guidelines
and evaluation indicators necessary to assess productivity and allow
activities to be adapted as needs change.

98

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

The components listed above appear almost universally in the literature that was
reviewed to reinforce the work of the group. This information supported the
recommendation of the Advisory Committee to include the community as a
stakeholder in public safety partnerships, and identify a CCB model defining key
concepts and tools.
The group recommended the following goal and
corresponding objectives and action steps to address the priority of having
stakeholders commit to systems change, and the need to identify a statewide
approach to public problem solving that involves the community.
A.

Goal: The Authority should assume a leadership role in promoting the
philosophy of community capacity building. The group felt that the
Authority could influence the inclusion of “community” by establishing a
set of goals addressing CCB in a statewide criminal justice planning
document.

1.

Objective:
Encourage criminal justice agencies to develop
organizational philosophies that include the community as a stakeholder.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Seek input from stakeholders to identify key themes and
perspectives in CCB. The Authority staff started this initiative
by administering a survey to advisory committee members to
assess their agencies’ policies and efforts in the area of CCB.
b.

Funding Action Steps:

• Establish funding criteria that are supportive of CCB.
• Provide CCB training opportunities to stakeholders.
• Explore opportunities to market CCB philosophy.
c.

Policy Action Steps:

• The Authority should make a commitment to embrace CCB
both formally and informally in everyday activities.

• The Authority will be responsible for providing education and
leadership to foster organizational support of CCB.
2.

99

Objective:
Work toward the identification of a coordinated process
that supports collaborative initiatives and problem solving solutions
between stakeholders.

 State Criminal Justice Plan

a.

Research Action Steps:

• Compile a literature review to begin to identify key
components and definitions, as well as national and
international efforts in the area of CCB.

• Examine and compile available planning and assessment tools.
b.

Legislative Action Step:

• Identify restrictions in funding that may prohibit community
involvement or collaborations.
c.

Policy Action Step:

• Once a literature review has been completed and planning and
assessment tools have been examined, the Authority should be
prepared to recommend a model and then publish this
information.
3.

Objective:
Develop an approach to public problem solving that
engages community stakeholders in a mutually beneficial inductive
process.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Refine definitions and concepts of CCB through research.
b.

Policy Action Step:
•

Establish policies that will give communities the opportunity to
take ownership of problem identification and solution
strategies.

Priority Issue 2
Including the community as a key stakeholder challenges the
traditional thinking about how the criminal justice system
functions. Stakeholders need training that achieves agreement on
the concepts of community capacity building, and teaches
stakeholders how to partner to develop solutions to public safety
issues.

100

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

The Advisory Committee agreed on the need to utilize training and technical
assistance to promote the philosophy of CCB. Participants visualized the
availability of a “toolbox” that would include orientation and educational
resources delineating the components and concepts of CCB, promoting the notion
of shared responsibility, and defining the roles and responsibilities of
stakeholders. The group felt strongly that stakeholders, such as neighborhoods,
community groups, and criminal justice agencies, would benefit from orientation
because the inclusion of the community may be a concept unfamiliar to them.
The training would be an opportunity to bring all partners to the table, including
traditional and non-traditional stakeholders, to facilitate a coordinated and
collective approach to CCB by leveling expectations and fostering a “shared
vision” between stakeholders.
In addition, the toolbox would include instruments to be used by communities for
assessment, planning, and evaluation. The availability of technical assistance and
planning and assessment tools would help communities identify local problems,
assess capacity, evaluate the impact of solutions, and measure the relationships of
collaborations. The Advisory Committee recognized that there are already tools
available that are being used to aid the successful mobilization of communitybased efforts. For example, Dr. James R. "Chip" Coldren from the Institute for
Public Safety Partnerships at the University of Illinois presented a tool developed
to enable communities to assess their readiness for partnerships in support of
community policing initiatives.
Also, the Authority recently secured a
discretionary grant from the Justice Research and Statistics Association to
identify "model" development, evaluation and assessment tools to guide the work
of local juvenile justice councils in Illinois.
The group felt that these types of resources should be compiled, assessed, and
then made available to stakeholders. Given the appropriate tools, accompanied
by technical assistance, communities can identify problems relative to them, and
develop solutions that will work in their neighborhoods.
The CCB Advisory Committee recommended the following goal and
corresponding objectives and actions steps to emphasize the need to provide
education, tools and technical assistance to stakeholders so that they understand
the concept of CCB, and they are prepared to implement efforts.
A.

Goal: Educate stakeholders on their ability and responsibility to foster
community capacity building.

1.

Objective:
Provide orientation to stakeholders that will support a
coordinated and collective approach to CCB.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Inventory available training and how it is delivered.
101

 State Criminal Justice Plan

b.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify funding sources to support orientation/training.
c.

Policy Action Step:

• Involve all potential partners in orientation sessions, including
traditional and non-traditional stakeholders.
2.

Objective:
Provide technical assistance to communities so that they
have the capacity to identify problems and develop solutions.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Identify tools that can be used by communities in assessment,
planning, and evaluation.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• Identify funding sources to support technical assistance.
c.

Policy Action Step:

• The Authority should provide staff development to foster CCB.

Priority Issue 3
Information must be disseminated to stakeholders as a tool for
mobilization.

The Advisory Committee discussed the importance of compiling and
disseminating CCB information to promote the philosophy of CCB and then
mobilize stakeholders. First, the Advisory Committee agreed that the State would
benefit from the development of a central repository addressing CCB efforts.
This compilation of materials would include a directory of Illinois initiatives, and
national and international CCB. The library would be used as a foundation for
supporting the goals relevant to CCB, and by the justice community as they carry
out CCB. Authority staff has already started to compile a body of knowledge
examining CCB to assist the work of the Advisory Committee.
102

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

It was also clear from the work of the Advisory Committee that information
sharing and dissemination is at the core of community mobilization. The criminal
justice system should be responsible for “packaging” and distributing information
to communities so that they understand issues and problems relevant to them. An
essential component -- and also the area of need identified by the Advisory
Committee -- is the lack of social service data in planning or community profiles.
As stated in the literature, strategies should be developed based on relevant
research with stakeholder input. The frustration of practitioners in the field is the
difficulty of getting information about activity in other jurisdictions and finding
out about effective and innovative criminal justice programs (NIJ, August 1996).
Several of the other Authority advisory committees involved in the planning
process also agreed that communities should have access to more accurate
information in order to understand public safety issues relevant to them. Law
enforcement officers in the Drug and Violent Crime Advisory Committee
discussed the need to provide better information to communities in order to dispel
misperceptions associated with crime occurring in their neighborhoods. They
were concerned that the police are frequently forced to respond to neighborhood
perceptions of crime instead of the actual situation on the street. Also, the
Victims of Crime Advisory Committee discussed the need to work with the media
to ensure crime coverage includes a victim perspective. Finally, the Offender
Services Advisory Committee addressed the need to provide better information
and data to communities so they understand offender population profiles,
recidivism rates, and the need for post-release and treatment services.
It was noted that the Authority is currently undertaking several initiatives to
provide communities with information that is relevant to them. For example, the
Authority produces profiles detailing crime and trends in counties. Criminal
justice agencies and communities use these documents to help them understand
criminal justice related-issues in their jurisdictions. In addition, the Authority’s
web site makes county-level crime data available in a user-friendly format. Since
the release of this module last year, the Authority has started to see this data in the
grant applications submitted by grantees to support statements of need.
The CCB Advisory Committee recommended the following goal and
corresponding objectives and action steps to emphasize the need to make
information available to stakeholders.
A.

Goal: Assemble and disseminate a body of knowledge examining
community capacity building, and disseminate information to
communities.

1.

Objective:
Compile a library of materials addressing CCB that is
accessible to all stakeholders.

103

 State Criminal Justice Plan

a.

Research Action Step:

• Compile information inclusive of international, national, state
and local CCB efforts.
2.

Objective:
Package and disseminate information to communities as a
tool for mobilization.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Identify informational materials that should be available and
disseminated to communities.

• Determine a user-friendly format for materials that will give
communities the capacity to identify needs and develop
solutions.
b.

Policy Action Step:

• Develop a means to disseminate information to communities in
understandable terms.
The three goals capture the preliminary work of the CCB Advisory Committee.
The group hopes that the recommendations to promote the philosophy of CCB in
public safety partnerships, and then identify a means for implementing the
philosophy, will serve as an overlay for the work conducted in the other Authority
advisory committees.

104

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

T

he Information Systems and Technology Workgroup at the Assembly,
which was comprised of 23 criminal justice managers and executives
representing key municipalities and state justice agencies including the
courts, judiciary, Illinois State Police, prosecution, criminal defense, clerks
of the circuit court, law enforcement, corrections, and the Governor’s Office,
identified the lack of a coordinated statewide information-sharing scheme as the
underlying problem responsible for most of the State’s deficiencies in the area of
justice information systems. Subsequent to the Assembly, the Authority's
Information Systems Committee has spearheaded the identification of additional
issues, as well as the refinement of goals, objectives and action steps in the
information system and technology area.

Priority Issue 1
The State of Illinois lacks a coordinated criminal justice informationsharing scheme.

While there are shared systems in Illinois, including a statewide criminal history
system, these systems are not significantly integrated with the courts, prosecution
or law enforcement, though some electronic arrest and disposition reporting is
taking place. The current investment in integrated justice information systems in
Illinois has been primarily at the municipal level. At present, several counties are
considering investment in countywide integrated justice initiatives and some are
asking for guidance from the state. While there has been significant investment at
this level, in order to expand integration initiatives throughout the state a
statewide plan must be implemented to establish standards, guidelines,
communications protocols. In addition, a physical network must be created to
allow real-time exchange of critical information beyond county borders.
The major challenges in building support for integrating justice information
systems will be related to making a compelling business case for the integration
of justice information systems in Illinois which must include quantification of
both financial and functional benefits. Also, it is important to allay the fears of
officials who believe that the adoption of an integrated justice approach will cause
a loss of autonomy and security. Many of the challenges of designing, developing
and implementing integrated systems have already been experienced by other
states and will not come as a surprise to criminal justice planners. Turf issues, for
example, can be a particular problem in environments where the concept of
sharing information is foreign to managers and staff. As such, education and
outreach will be necessary for the success of an integration project. Two other
crucial and related challenges are gaining executive support and end-user buy-in
for the initiative. The necessity of significant inclusion of all stakeholders in the
process, and at all stages, will be difficult but essential for the ultimate success of

105

 State Criminal Justice Plan

the project. There will be many other challenges — financial, technical, and
human — but if the above listed challenges are not met, the project will have little
chance of succeeding.
In addition to traditional turf problems and system incompatibility issues, Illinois
has a wide range of municipalities, ranging from very small counties with no
information technology infrastructure to large municipalities with significant
technology infrastructure. Because of the independent nature of municipalities
and court jurisdictions, there must be a separation of responsibilities between the
State and local entities. In most counties, several independently elected officials
are responsible for the administration of justice including administration of justice
information systems within the county. In Chicago and Cook County, the justice
technology infrastructure is significant but justice information systems are a
disparate patchwork of inconsistently communicating systems. Meeting the needs
of the larger metropolitan areas while addressing the information needs of the
smaller municipalities will be a significant challenge and will require a different
mindset on the part of criminal justice decision-makers throughout the state. The
most effective way to do this will be to create representative justice integration
governance bodies in order that these key decision-makers are either represented
or directly involved in the process. In addition, the customary problems of oneyear budgets, unrealistic expectations, lack of standards for criminal justice
information systems in Illinois, and difficult procurement processes must be
recognized and accounted for in any long-term plan.
Illinois is far behind many other states in its efforts toward integration of justice
information systems. Over the years, Illinois criminal justice agencies, at both the
local and state levels, have invested in technologies that are proprietary and not
easily integrated, with little regard for standards or concern for data sharing.
Agencies responsible for the administration of criminal justice in Illinois have
focused almost exclusively on the operational needs of their own organizations.
The result is that criminal justice information is fragmented and frequently
inaccurate, information processing is less efficient than it could be, and criminal
justice decision-making is much less informed than it is in some other states.
Continuing to delay the integration process forces municipalities and their
vendors to create more disparate, inconsistent, and expensive municipal systems
in Illinois, compounding an already difficult problem. These deficiencies can lead
to the release of offenders who may be dangerous to the general public, and
increased risk to police officers at the hands of dangerous offenders for whom
criminal records are missing or incomplete due to system deficiencies.
There are notable exceptions to the lack of integration in Illinois, particularly at
the local level. However, most of those integrated systems have been developed
exclusively for use by the municipal or county agencies and not for sharing with
neighboring communities or state agencies. An important example of a local
integrated justice system in Illinois is one designed jointly by TRW Corporation

106

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

and McLean County. Serving the criminal justice enterprise in McLean County,
the system primarily illustrates horizontal integration — that is, integration
between agencies serving the same court system (police, circuit court clerks,
prosecutor, public defender, judiciary, probation, and social service agencies).
Another example of horizontal integration in Illinois is the Cook County Sheriff's
Department Criminal Apprehension and Booking System (CABS). CABS
completely integrates the booking and electronic fingerprinting process among all
police agencies in Cook County. This effort is just now being implemented and
will greatly improve the accuracy of arrest data reported to state and federal
criminal history repositories. In this respect, CABS also provides an example of
vertical integration, that is, information shared among different levels of
jurisdiction between local, state and federal agencies. CABS will also enhance
timely and accurate identification of offenders which will result in improved
warrant handling, bonding decisions, and charging decisions.
These isolated efforts are examples of the need for coordination and standards.
Both systems were created by different vendors to satisfy the needs of particular
jurisdictions and the two systems will not communicate or share data without
extensive modifications. Of course, while it may not be critically important for
McLean and Cook counties to share information, there is a compelling need for
Cook County to share with bordering Lake, DuPage, Will, and McHenry counties.
Historically in Illinois, there has been little interest in coordination of statewide
justice information systems. While, in some instances, great sums of money have
been directed at automating certain criminal justice functions, no overall
standards have been created for justice information systems in Illinois. As a
result, agencies have created a patchwork of disparate, non-communicating
systems.
Another known challenge is the prevalence in Illinois of many diverse and
disparate systems. This problem may be addressed, at least in part, through the
use of creative implementations of middleware products to translate and pump
information between systems in a real-time fashion. Such use of middleware has
already enabled integration projects in Colorado, California, and Pennsylvania to
share data between systems having totally different data dictionaries, software
and hardware platforms, and allowable data values.
The time is right in Illinois for a coordinated, over-arching plan which will bring
agencies together to work towards implementation of an effective network of
justice information systems in Illinois. Integration will not happen overnight, but
each day that passes without the adoption of an overall strategy for integration
delays the realization of integration benefits including timely and accurate
information on offenders as well as reductions in redundant, inconsistent, and
inaccurate criminal offender information spread throughout multiple disparate
systems.

107

 State Criminal Justice Plan

A.

Goal: The State must create an integrated statewide justice information
network to ensure that all public, private, and individual stakeholders have
accurate, timely, and easily accessible information that they need, when
and where they need it, to administer justice and enhance the safety and
well-being of the people of Illinois.

1.

Objective:
Create a consortium of state and local criminal justice
agencies that will foster an information technology environment which
facilitates timely communication of critical justice events, adoption of
information technology standards, and create efficiencies within the
criminal justice enterprise in Illinois.
a.

Research Action Steps:

• Determine if a viable model for Illinois is to make local agencies
responsible for developing and deploying systems that meet the
operational needs within their local jurisdictions while
communicating with state and federal criminal justice systems.

• Explore strategies for adopting and encouraging standards while
respecting the rights of locally elected officials to create
operational systems for their own purposes.
b.

Legislative Action Steps:

• Create a representative governing body to oversee the integration
process - an Integrated Statewide Justice Information Network
Workgroup. The advisory workgroup recognized that the
governing body must be inclusive of key stakeholders, agencies
and associations in order to ensure participation of the many local
and state-level justice-related entities in Illinois. A critical step in
the process of realizing integrated justice in Illinois is bringing
together a strategic planning group which represents the many
functional entities operating criminal justice systems in the state as
well as other major state and local-level stakeholders. This group
should direct a complete statewide needs assessment and craft a
strategic plan, both which will be needed to guide Illinois as it
embarks upon the process of integrating its justice information
systems.

• Secure executive buy-in for the process that would result in an
appropriate Executive Order. This means that chief executives of
justice-related agencies all the way up to the Governor must be

108

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

significantly included in the process.
c.

Policy Action Steps:

• The Authority, in conjunction with the Governor’s Office, will provide a
central point of operations, meeting space, administrative resources, staff
support, communications via an intranet site for the strategic planning group,
and supply an Internet/Intranet site that will document the project.

• Involve actual users in the process since they best know the procedural needs
and business rules of our vast justice information enterprise. They must
participate in order for the network to meet their needs and in order to have a
sense of ownership. The word “network” was preferred by the Workgroup
over “system” since the ideal result of a statewide integration effort will be a
network of communicating, but securely autonomous, systems.

• The Authority should actively solicit participation and buy-in from those
whose input is needed to build an effective justice system in Illinois.

• The Authority should disseminate research results to participants in order to
allow them to have the best data to aid in their understanding of the many
complex issues facing criminal justice in Illinois.

• The Authority will also seek the participation of national experts in the
planning process, and continue to identify nationally recognized best practices
for the participants of the planning process.

• The Authority will examine the roles of local entities and the State, and
incorporate decisions regarding roles and responsibilities into an overall
strategy for integrating systems in Illinois.

• Determine whether databases other than state-level systems such
as state criminal history systems, statewide fingerprint databases,
licensed driver files, and motor
B.

109

Goal: The Integrated Statewide Justice Information Network Workgroup
must ensure that a statewide network: (1) Captures data at the originating
point and not require re-entry by other criminal justice agencies as cases
progress through the criminal justice process; (2) Captures data once but
reuse it many times, creating operational efficiencies while reducing
opportunities for data entry errors that compound over time as the same
information is entered successively by multiple agencies; (3) Is driven by
and supports the operational needs of participating agencies, and connect
existing individual agency case and records tracking systems; and (4)

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Incorporates the flexibility to accommodate changes required by the
evolution of criminal justice processes.
1.

Objective: Develop a fully integrated, networked criminal justice system
that will reduce duplicative efforts and enhance information accuracy.
a.

Research Action Step:

• Explore the use of "middleware" to span multiple, diverse
information systems currently in operation.
2.

Objective: Protect the privacy and civil liberties of the people of Illinois
by implementing proper security and auditing procedures to ensure that
only accurate, appropriate criminal history information is released to
authorized recipients.
a.

Policy Action Step:

• Undertake an intensive effort to educate those managers and
staff as to the advantages that can be gained by eliminating
redundancy resulting from the existence of duplicative
systems, and the desirability of increased accuracy that will
result by reducing the duplicate data entry that accompanies
redundancy. They also must be assured that data in their
agency will be completely secured and not shared unless
specifically authorized by them. Education and outreach
should seek to guarantee agencies that integration of systems
will not cause increased security risks.
3.

Objective:
Improve the completeness and accuracy of criminal justicerelated information in Illinois.
a.

Policy Action Step:

• Define the state’s role in developing and encouraging use of
data standards (file formats, platform specifications,
communication protocols, XML tag specifications) that will
allow criminal justice integration among all Illinois criminal
justice agencies.
4.

Objective:
Reduce the high cost of criminal justice information
technology to Illinois taxpayers through elimination of redundancies,
exploitation of economies of scale and group purchasing, and the
aggressive pursuit of federal funding and other types of funding
assistance.

110

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

a.

Research Action Steps:

• Investigate whether it will be more beneficial for the state to
custom-develop software that will be the basis of an integrated
justice system or purchase off-the-shelf software (software
developed by vendors that already may have been implemented
in other states or jurisdictions) that can be tailored to meet the
needs of Illinois.

• Examine existing mobile data, police records management,
livescan, jail, courts, prosecution, probation/pretrial, social
services/psychiatric, public defender, prison, and other related
systems to determine how to make the most of existing
resources.

• Examine the feasibility of adopting translation/data exchange
software (middleware) that will expedite data sharing between
agencies. Such software creates virtual systems without
replacing existing state and local agency systems. When
implemented it allows real-time transfer of shared data and
interactive access to data stored on remote systems. Such
translation middleware solutions may be right for Illinois.

• Investigate the possibility of a statewide Web browser-based
system that would organize, format, and display information
entered into the system. Such a system could work as a
complete criminal history/case history repository for
participating agencies.
b.

Funding Action Step:

• The Authority should seek funding for a statewide integrated
justice needs analysis and, based on the analysis, create a
proof-of-concept system that can serve as a model for
integrated justice in Illinois.

• If funds for the first year are approved, the Authority should
seek general revenue funds for implementation in the
subsequent fiscal year. This amount will be reinforced, if
possible, by federal grants for criminal history improvement.

Priority Issue 2

111

There is a critical need to gather, analyze and preserve digital
evidence.

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Cybercrime includes a number of offenses, ranging from the unauthorized use of
a computer, to releasing a malicious computer program, to cyber stalking. Modern
technology has also eased the process of committing crimes such as
embezzlement, identity theft, pornography, extortion, larceny, and fraud. The
National Consumers League reported that consumers lost over $3.2 million to
Internet fraud in 1999. Online auction sales accounted for 87 percent of those
fraud cases. In addition, according to a recent FBI Congressional Report,
computer viruses and hacking take a $1.6 billion yearly toll on the global
economy. The FBI Computer Security Institute published a survey in May 2000,
reporting that out of 273 respondents (mostly large companies and government
agencies), 90 percent had detected intrusions over the last 12 months. Seventyfour (74) percent of those respondents claimed financial losses resulting from the
intrusion.
Because of the apparent increase in computer-related crime, the need to gather,
analyze and preserve digital evidence is at an all-time high. At present, there is
an extreme shortage of qualified forensic computer labs and examiners, and local
jurisdictions often lack the knowledge and expertise necessary for handling
technology-related crimes. The conclusion reached in the FBI Congressional
Report is that cooperation among government agencies and between the
government and industry is the key to combating cybercrime. The need to share
resources is apparent from the collaborations demonstrated in the current efforts
in Illinois addressing cybercrime.
Since cybercrime is receiving much attention from law enforcement agencies and
prosecutors, a number of state entities have teamed up to combat these crimes. In
order to begin the investigation of computer crimes, Illinois Attorney General Jim
Ryan established the statewide Internet Criminal Activity Unit (ICAU), which
also coordinates the efforts of the statewide Internet Child Exploitation Task
Force. The multi-jurisdictional effort includes law enforcement and legal
representatives from all across the state. The task force has also consulted with
several local states’ attorneys’ offices on litigation strategy and the drafting and
execution of computer search warrants.
Because computers are popular educational tools for children across the state,
parents and law enforcement officers are concerned that children will become the
most vulnerable targets of cybercrime. Therefore, the Task Force members
monitor the Internet for child sexual exploitation and target offenders who use
computers to find their victims and distribute child pornography. The ICAU,
funded through the Authority, seeks to prosecute those individuals who post, sell,
trade, request, disseminate, possess with the intent to disseminate, or download
child pornography on the Internet, in violation of Illinois law. The project also
seeks to prosecute those individuals who employ the Internet to commit the
indecent solicitation of a child in violation of Illinois law.

112

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Through another project, the Computer Evidence Recovery project, the Illinois
State Police will be able to provide expertise in responding to requests by
criminal justice agencies for child pornography-related computer evidence
recovery and services. The goal of these projects is to assist criminal justice
agencies in carrying out their work more efficiently and effectively using the
Internet as a tool, and to increase the scope of sophistication of Internet use in the
criminal justice community.
The Illinois State Police have also established an Internet Task Force for
proactive and reactive case investigation and prosecution. Made up of twomember teams, each unit has an investigator for online crimes such as identity
theft and a computer recovery specialist. The Division of Operations computer
recovery unit hired new employees to provide training that includes the technical
assistance and guidance to the task force. At the same time, the Illinois Attorney
General’s Office and the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
developed the Illinois Computer Crime Institute (ICCI), which is guided by a
multi-agency board. The ICCI was created to provide computer crime training to
investigators and to develop a web site to facilitate communication between
investigating agencies.
A.

Goal: Illinois should establish a state-level capability for handling digital
evidence collection and analysis.

1.

Objective: Create a state-run computer forensics lab.
a.

Policy Action Steps:

• Aggressively hire, train and certify examiners.
• Bring pay rates into alignment with the private industry in
order to retain these examiners.

• Moreover, because of the fast-changing nature of the field,
schedule retraining of examiners on a regular basis in order for
examiners to remain effective.
2.

Objective: Establish standards and procedures for handling computerrelated evidence.
a.

Policy Action Steps:

• Make local law enforcement officials aware of computerrelated evidence handling procedures in order to avoid
accidental destruction or contamination of evidence.

113

 State Criminal Justice Plan

• Make law enforcement officials aware the basic issues
surrounding computer crime and forensics.

• Provide local law enforcement officials with ongoing support
and assistance in dealing with computer-related forensics
issues.

Priority Issue 3
The State must make expanded use of current and new forensic
science technology.
There are significant problems involving the use of forensic science technology in
Illinois. The state faces an ongoing challenge to provide assistance in the
collection and analysis of physical evidence. Innovative programs require
expansion to address issues of violence. Partnerships between law enforcement
agencies need to be continued and augmented to improve efficiency,
effectiveness, and to enhance coordination and communication toward this end
goal. This partnership applies to all aspects of violent crimes, including forensic
services. Although the Illinois State Police is mandated by statute (20 ILCS
2605/55a-4) to provide forensic services, the committee believes this is an issue
which impacts the entire Illinois criminal justice community. In fact, of the
118,410 cases submitted to the laboratories in 1998, 98 percent were from
agencies outside the ISP.
Although technology currently exists, such as DNA or latent fingerprint testing to
examine forensic evidence that can literally incarcerate or exonerate a person,
crime laboratories in Illinois are critically backlogged. Consequently, some
criminals have not been incarcerated while other persons may remain imprisoned
for crimes they may not have committed. The importance of an updated statewide
forensics system is fundamental to Illinois= criminal justice system.
One of the most pressing issues in forensic science in Illinois and nationally is the
advancement of DNA technology. The ability for forensic scientists to link a
suspect to a violent crime is truly remarkable; however, this technology also
instills a heightened sense of justice to the criminal justice system as the unjustly
accused are exonerated. The use of DNA technology is expected to increase over
the next decade. The most critical problems currently facing the State's forensic
science system are the acute need to expand our DNA data base, and the lack of
adequate scientific personnel to process the ever increasing demand for DNA
testing as well as insufficient staffing for all the forensic disciplines.
The CODIS (Combined DNA Index System) is the FBI=s national DNA database.
Comparisons in the CODIS have resulted in linking many crimes to a serial
114

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

criminal which had been previously thought to be committed by different
criminals, as well as proving that some crimes, thought to be committed by the
same person, are unrelated. Unsolved cases in Illinois can be searched against
convicted offenders not only in Illinois, but in all other states throughout the
nation which are part of the CODIS system. The problem is that the CODIS data
base relies on new, highly efficient, DNA technology, but existing data is held in
the old standards which must be converted to be useful.
Additionally, recently passed legislation (Public Act 91-0528 - SB 644) will
increase the number of offenses legislatively mandated to be entered into CODIS.
When the legislation becomes effective in 2003, individuals convicted of crimes
such as homicide, attempted homicide, kidnaping, aggravated kidnaping,
burglary, and other serious crimes will add an additional 20,000 offender samples
to CODIS each year and will substantially increase the power of the DNA data
base to solve crimes and get the repeat violent offenders off the streets. Hopefully
too, many future crimes will be prevented by catching the criminal earlier in their
career.
Presently, the backlog in forensic DNA analysis is as high as 29 months. In
reality, a forensic examination which is backlogged over 30 days is unacceptable.
Such a backlog dilutes the benefits of forensic testing to criminal investigations
because in many cases, the trail turns Αcold.≅ The longer these investigations
take, the longer repeat violent offenders remain unidentified. In addition, lengthy
delays in forensic investigations may cause innocent people to remain unjustly
confined behind prison walls or on death row. In order to provide the necessary
assistance to the criminal justice system, this backlog must be dramatically
reduced.
Two additional forensic projects on the horizon are a Forensic Science Institute
and DNA microchip technology. The establishment of a Forensic Science
Institute would provide consolidated forensic science and crime scene training for
Illinois, and serve as a regional and national center for the advancement of
forensic technology. A Forensic Science Institute would:

115

∃

Provide initial forensic science discipline and crime scene
investigation training to all Illinois agencies and offer these
services both regionally and nationally;

∃

Provide continuing education programs for forensic scientists and
crime scene investigators;

∃

Provide law enforcement user agency training to all Illinois
agencies;

 State Criminal Justice Plan

∃

Expand and operate a research and development program for
forensic disciplines and crime scene investigation in cooperation
with academia and other governmental/private entities;

∃

Enhance a standard quality assurance program for forensic
disciplines and crime scene investigations;

∃

Organize visiting scientist and crime scene technician programs to
maintain a dynamic learning environment;

∃

Develop and consult in teaching practical forensic science and
criminal justice curricula; and

∃

Organize and hold state, national, and international symposia to
improve communication and forensic services.

The Forensic Science Institute would be a focal point for the forensic sciences
and would enhance Illinois= stature as a leading technological state. The
projected cost for the 125,000 square foot facility is approximately $60 million.
The Αinstitute≅ would house approximately 125 administrative, professional and
support staff, and would have dedicated space for both indoor and outdoor crime
scene processing and training. This would serve to increase the Αpool≅ of
forensic scientists, as well as provide continuing education programs for forensic
scientists and crime scene investigators.
Finally, the Illinois State Police in conjunction with Argonne National
Laboratories is developing a DNA microchip for use in Forensic DNA analysis.
DNA microchips are pieces of glass about the size of a microscope slide and
contain thousands of DNA tests. This Αlaboratory on a chip≅ may eventually
allow for the portability of DNA analysis possibly even to the crime scene. Like
computer chips, which perform millions of mathematical operations per second,
DNA microchips can perform thousands of biological reactions in a few seconds.
The ISP is one of only three forensic laboratories nationwide working with
companies to develop this technology.
The project provides the state of Illinois with the opportunity to continue to be a
leader in the forensic community. This Αcutting edge technology≅ will be a
benefit because it will allow the DNA analyst to develop more information on a
wider variety of samples. Currently, the development of this type of DNA
microchip for use in the forensic laboratory is approximately three to seven years
away. However, an increase interest and allocation of resources may reduce the
time to bring this technology to fruition.
Many believe forensic science is the future of law enforcement and as a result, it
is critical to invest in its identified needs.

116

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

A.

Goal: In order to effectively address the forensics needs of
Illinois= law enforcement and legal communities, officials must
implement multi-step programs.

1.

Objective:
Diminish current backlogs in all forensic science
disciplines by increasing staffing of both scientist and support
personnel, expanding laboratory facilities and acquiring needed
equipment.
a. Funding Action Step:
•

Identify funding to staff, equip and train forensic
scientists in DNA analysis and a variety of other
disciplines.

b. Legislative Action Step:
•

SB644 (PA 91-0528) became law effective January 1,
2000 with staggered implementation through 2003.

2. Objective: Provide consolidated forensic science and crime scene training.
This would enhance the expertise of those agencies which serve as ISP
customers, as well as provide training at the regional and national level in
these areas.
a.

Funding Action Step:
•

The projected cost for the Forensic Science Institute is
approximately $60 million. Since there are greater
needs in the areas of staffing and equipment, this
should only be funded secondarily or through federal
funds.

3. Objective: Continue to expand the usage of new technologies such as
Microchip applications to improve forensic science services.

117

 State Criminal Justice Plan

APPENDICES

I.

References

122

II.

Background on the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority

123

III.

Participants in the Planning Process:

133

A. Post-Criminal Justice Planning Assembly Advisory
Committees
B. The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority's
Committees
C. Ad Hoc Advisory Committee for the Assembly
D. Criminal Justice Planning Assembly Discussion Groups

118

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

APPENDIX I
REFERENCES
Felton, E. and Visher, C. (1998, April) Project on Human Development in
Chicago Neighborhoods: A Research Update. Research in Brief. National
Institute of Justice, Washington, DC.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (April, 1999). Drug court provides
treatment alternative to incarceration. On Good Authority, April 1999.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (April, 1999). Homicide task force
helps solve tough cases in St. Clair and Madison Counties. On Good Authority,
March 1998.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (December, 1998). Results of the
1997 Illinois Adult Probation Outcome Study.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (July, 1996). A Review of
Incarcerated Illinois Class 4 Felony Offender: Are Alternative Sanctions
Appropriate?
Illinois Department of Human Services; Office of Alcoholism and Substance
Abuse; additional information provided on prevalence and need for treatment.
Kennedy, D (1996, August) Neighborhood Revitalization: Lesson form Savannah
and Baltimore. As presented in Journal, pp. 13-17. National Institute of Justice;
Washington, DC.
Lurigio, A.J.. (2000). Drug treatment availability and effectiveness. Criminal
Justice and Behavior. 27, 495-528.
Robinson, L (1996, August) Linking Community-Based Initiatives and
Community Justice: The Office of Justice Programs. As presented in Journal, pp.
4-7. National Institute of Justice; Washington, DC.
Skogan, W. (1999, May) Community Policing in Chicago, Years Five and Six:
An Interim Report. Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority; Chicago, IL.
Spergel, I. and Kane, C. (1991, April) Community Mobilization Model. Office of
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Washington, DC.
http://www.ncjrs.org/txtfiles/d0003.txt

119

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Teplin, L. Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Disorders Among Male Urban Jail
Detainees. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 84, No. 2 (1994)
Northwestern University. Chicago, Illinois.
Teplin, L. The Prevalence of Severe Mental Disorder Among Male Urban Jail
Detainees: Comparison with the Epidemiologic Catchment Area Program.1990.
American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 80, No. 6. (1990). Northwestern
University. Chicago, Illinois.
Teplin, L. Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Disorders Among Male Urban Jail
Detainees. American Journal of Public Health, Vol. 84, No. 2. (1994).
Northwestern University. Chicago, Illinois.
United States Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) (1998,
November) Overcoming Obstacles to Community Courts: A Summary of
Workshop Proceedings. Washington, DC.

120

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

APPENDIX II
Background on the Authority
The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority was created in 1983 to
coordinate the use of information in the criminal justice system; to promulgate
effective criminal justice information policy; to encourage the improvement of
criminal justice agency procedures and practices with respect to information; to
provide new information technologies; to permit the evaluation of information
practices and programs; to stimulate research and development of new methods
and uses of criminal justice information for the improvement of the criminal
justice system and the reduction of crime; and to protect the integrity of criminal
history record information, while protecting the citizen's right to privacy (see 20
ILCS 3930 et seq.).

1.

Information systems, technology, and data quality

The Authority: (1) Develops, operates, and maintains computerized information
systems for police agencies; (2) Serves as the sole administrative appeal body for
determining citizen challenges to the accuracy of their criminal history records;
and (3) Monitors the operation of existing criminal justice information systems to
protect the constitutional rights and privacy of citizens.

2.

Research and analysis

The Authority: (1) Publishes research studies that analyze a variety of crime
trends and criminal justice issues; (2) Acts as a clearinghouse for information and
research on crime and the criminal justice system; (3) Audits the state central
repositories of criminal history record information for data accuracy and
completeness; and (4) Develops and tests statistical methodologies and provides
statistical advice and interpretation to support criminal justice decision making.

3.

Policy and planning

The Authority: (1) Develops and implements comprehensive strategies for drug
and violent crime law enforcement, crime control, and assistance to crime
victims, using federal funds awarded to Illinois; (2) Advises the governor and the
General Assembly on criminal justice policies and legislation; and (3) Develops
and evaluates state and local programs for improving law enforcement and the
administration of criminal justice.

4.

121

Grants administration

 State Criminal Justice Plan

The Authority: (1) Implements and funds victim assistance and violent crime and
drug law enforcement programs under the federal Anti-Drug Abuse Act, Victims
of Crime Act, Violence Against Women Act, and other grant programs as they
become available; (2) Monitors program activity and provides technical
assistance to grantees; (3) Coordinates policy-making groups to learn about
ongoing concerns of criminal justice officials; and (4) Provides staff support to
the Illinois Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Council, an 11-member board
working to curb motor vehicle theft.

Composition & Membership
The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority is governed by a 18-member
board of state and local leaders in the criminal justice community, plus experts
from the private sector. The Authority is supported by a full-time professional
staff working out of the agency's office in Chicago. The Authority is led by a
chairman, who is appointed by the governor from among the board's members. By
law, the Authority meets at least four times a year in public meetings. Authority
members are responsible for setting agency priorities, tracking the progress of
ongoing programs, and monitoring the agency's budget.
By law, the Authority includes:

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Two police chiefs (Chicago and another municipality)
Two sheriffs (Cook and another county)
Two state's attorneys (Cook and another county)
Two circuit court clerks (Cook and another county)
Illinois attorney general (or designee)
Director, Illinois State Police
Director, Illinois Department of Corrections
Director, Office of the State's Attorney's Appellate Prosecutor
Executive Director, Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Five members of the public

The Authority accomplishes its goals through efforts in four areas: 1) information
systems, technology and data quality; 2) research and analysis; 3) policy and
planning; and 4) grants administration.

Federal and State Grants
The Federal & State Grants Unit (FSGU) administers grant programs overseen by
the Authority. Authorized under the Authority's power "to apply for, receive,
establish priorities for, allocate, disburse and spend grants of funds," this
responsibility includes assuring compliance with federal and state regulations.

122

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

FSGU's predecessor unit, the Office of Federal Assistance Programs, was created
in 1985 to administer two federal grant programs totaling $4.1 million. In 1999,
34 staff members administered a variety of grant programs, with $33.5 million in
expenditures for the fiscal year.
With the support of legal, fiscal, research and administrative staff, FSGU staff
perform a variety of functions in developing, implementing, and monitoring state
and local programs while ensuring compliance with numerous federal and state
laws and guidelines. These tasks include planning, monitoring, program
development, technical assistance, coordination, and administration.

The Need for a Single Planning Process
In 1999, the Authority launched a project to develop a single and comprehensive
plan that would guide its administration of federal and state grant funds. Each of
the programs, until that time, involved its own planning process including
separate cycles for public input, data analyses and consideration of strategies. It
was also clear that the new planning process had to be consider how the resources
of other federal and state agencies were allocated to prevent and combat crime,
improve criminal justice, and address victim service issues in the State.
Therefore, with the Authority's input, and direction from the Governor's office,
staff embarked on the development of this Criminal Justice Plan for the State of
Illinois. The affected grant programs are described below.

1.

Anti-Drug Abuse Act Program

The federal Anti-Drug Abuse Act (ADAA) of 1988, also known as the Edward
Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Program, supports
government programs that enable the enforcement of Illinois drug laws and help
decrease the likelihood of violent crime. Illinois received a federal award of $19.8
million under ADAA for Federal Fiscal Year 2000. The State is required to set
aside five percent of the award to improve criminal history records. Of the
remaining funds, after administrative costs are deducted, a minimum of 64.51
percent must be passed through to local units of government and the remainder
may be spent by state agencies. ADAA guidelines require a cash match to support
at least 25 percent of each funded project's total cost. A federal fiscal year's
program funds may be spent over a three-year term in accordance with a detailed
strategy prepared every three years. Projects, which support all components of the
criminal justice system, are funded for a maximum of 48 months with some
exceptions.
For Federal Fiscal Year 2000 funds, the Authority has identified seven priorities,
which are consistent with and build on the National Drug Control Strategy:
(1)

123

Support prevention programs that help youth recognize the true
risks associated with violent crime and drug use and that target

 State Criminal Justice Plan

youth to reduce their use of violence, illicit drugs, alcohol and
tobacco products.
(2)

Support programs that strengthen multi-agency linkages at the
community level among prevention, treatment and criminal justice
programs, as well as other supportive social services, to better
address the problems of drug abuse.

(3)

Support programs that enhance treatment effectiveness, quality and
services so that those who need treatment can receive it.

(4)

Support programs that reduce drug related crime and violence.

(5)

Support research that identifies Αwhat works≅ in drug treatment
and the prevention of drug use and violent crime, and develop new
information about drug use and violent crime and their
consequences.

(6)

Support programs that promote the efficiency and effectiveness if
the criminal justice system.

(7)

Support programs statewide that target prevention and early
intervention for juveniles, with particular emphasis on the
principles of balanced and restorative justice.

2.

Victims of Crime Act Program

The Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), funded by fines paid by those convicted of
violating federal laws, supports direct services to victims of crime. The act
requires that priority be given to services for victims of sexual assault, domestic
violence, child abuse, and other groups identified by the state as underserved
victims of crimes. Funds may only be used to support direct services to victims of
crime. VOCA guidelines require either a cash or an in-kind match to support at
least 20 percent of the funded project’s total cost. Since 1995, states have been
allowed to retain up to five percent of VOCA funds for administrative purposes.
For Federal Fiscal Year 2000, the Authority has been awarded $15.5 million in
VOCA funds. These funds are used to support victim advocacy and other direct
services throughout Illinois, including those provided by agencies that are
members of the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence and the Illinois
Coalition Against Sexual Assault. VOCA funds have also supported services to
survivors of homicide victims, victims of drunk driving crashes, and victims of
violent crime with special needs, such as those with disabilities and the elderly.

3.

Violence Against Women Act Program

124

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Congress passed the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in 1994. Among the
provisions of the act is a section authorizing grants to states for programs that
would improve the response of the criminal justice system to victims of sexual
assault and domestic violence. As the agency charged with administering VAWA
awards in Illinois, the Authority is responsible for developing a plan for
distributing the federal money. Relying on statistical data, public testimony, and
surveys of criminal justice and victim service agencies, the Authority established
the S.T.O.P. (Service, Training, Officers, Prosecution) Violence Against Women
in Illinois plan. Among the objectives for the plan are:
•

Expansion of services to women who are victims of sexual assault or domestic
violence;

•

Improved training for law enforcement officers and the establishment of
protocols for handling sexual assault and domestic violence reports;

•

Improved training for prosecutors and the establishment of protocols for
handling sexual assault and domestic violence cases; and

•

Promotion of multidisciplinary training programs for criminal justice agencies
and health care systems.

The Authority received $5.1 million in VAWA grant funding for Federal Fiscal
Year 2000. The act specifies that states must allocate a minimum of 25 percent of
the funds they receive in each of three categories: law enforcement, prosecution
and victim services. The remaining funds may be spent in one or more of these
areas or for other purposes. Funds have a two-year life and must be spent in
accordance with the plan submitted to the Violence Against Women Office, U.S.
Department of Justice. A 25 percent cash or in-kind match is required for each
project; not-for-profit victim service providers are exempt from the match
requirement. States are allowed to retain five percent of the award for
administrative costs.
VAWA program funds have been used to implement, test, and evaluate model
protocols and guidelines for responding to victims of domestic violence and
sexual assault. Several counties throughout the state were selected to implement
the model protocol for handling domestic violence cases by coordinating the
responses of law enforcement officers, prosecutors, service providers and the
judiciary. In other regions, model guidelines have been implemented for
responding to victims of sexual assault. These efforts link law enforcement
officers, the state's attorney's office and victim advocates. The goal is to heighten
sensitivity while improving evidence collection, initial response, victim
interviews and victim referrals. Each program has incorporated training sessions
into its development to emphasize the spirit of interagency cooperation, while
providing participants with the necessary skills to combat domestic violence and
sexual assault.
125

 State Criminal Justice Plan

4.

National Criminal History Improvement Program

The National Criminal History Improvement Program (NCHIP) was established
in 1995 to promote the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of criminal history
records. Funds are used at the state and local levels to improve the quality of
criminal history records, or "rap sheets," which are used by police, prosecutors,
judges and non-criminal justice agencies. Through Federal Fiscal Year 2000,
Illinois has received $11 million for the program. About approximately 82 percent
of these funds have been awarded to the Illinois State Police for improvements to
the state's criminal history program. At the local level, funds are primarily used
for the electronic capture and transfer of fingerprints and associated information
about alleged offenders.

5.

Local Law Enforcement Block Grant Program

Under the Omnibus Federal Fiscal Year 1997 Appropriations Act, Public Act
104-208, the U.S. Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Assistance makes
funds available to units of local government under the Local Law Enforcement
Block Grant program for purposes of reducing crime and improving public safety.
In Federal Fiscal Year 2000, Illinois received $25 million for this program. The
federal government directly awarded about $23.9 million of this amount to units
of local government in Illinois according to a formula based on population and
violent crime rates. The Authority is the state agency that administers the
remaining $1.1 million in funds. Units of local government that did not qualify for
the direct federal award funds are eligible to apply for these funds. The Authority
issues request for proposals to provide funds for equipment related to officer
safety and essential police services in local police and sheriffs' departments. Local
units of government are required to provide cash match of 10 percent of each
project’s total cost.

6.

Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Program

Enacted in 1994 with the first funds appropriated in Federal Fiscal Year 1996, the
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment (RSAT) program for state prisoners
provides formula grants to state and local correctional agencies for the
implementation of treatment programs for offenders housed in residential
facilities. To be eligible for funding the act requires that treatment programs meet
the following criteria:
•

Length of treatment must be 6 to 12 months;

•

Offenders must receive treatment services in a residential setting away from
the general inmate population; and

126

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

•

The primary focus of the program must be on the substance abuse problems of
the inmate, but must also develop inmates' social, cognitive, behavioral and
vocational skills.

In addition, treatment should be limited to offenders who are nearing the end of
their incarceration so that they may be released upon completion of the substance
abuse program. The Authority has been awarded $1.9 million for Federal Fiscal
Year 2000, with approximately 90 percent of the funds passing through to the
Illinois Department of Corrections. The remainder is reserved for the Cook
County Department of Corrections. RSAT requires a cash match to support at
least 25 percent of each project’s total cost.

7.

Violent Offender Incarceration and Truth-in-Sentencing
Incentive Grant Program

The Violent Offender Incarceration and Truth-in-Sentencing (VOI-TIS) incentive
grant program was established in 1996 and provides funding to states to build or
expand correctional and juvenile detention facilities in order to increase secure
confinement space for adult and juvenile violent offenders. The Violent Offender
Incarceration grants are allocated to states using a three-tiered formula based on
eligibility criteria. States also must comply with specific conditions to qualify for
Truth-In-Sentencing incentive grants, which are awarded to states that implement
laws requiring that people convicted of Part 1 violent offenses to serve not less
than 85 percent of the sentence imposed.
Through Federal Fiscal Year 2000, the Authority has been awarded $99.2 million.
These funds have a 10 percent cash match requirement and may be spent over a
six-year term according to a plan submitted by the Authority to the Office of
Justice Programs, Corrections Program Office. Fifteen percent of VOI-TIS funds
are distributed at the local level for construction of additional bed space for
violent juvenile offenders.

8.

Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grants Program

The Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grants (JAIBG) program was
enacted in 1998 to promote greater accountability in the juvenile justice system.
Program grants support local efforts to reduce delinquency and crime, and hold
young people, their families and the juvenile justice system accountable for
improving the quality of life in every community. The JAIBG program focuses on
the development and administration of accountability-based sanctions for juvenile
offenders, making funding available to prosecutors to more effectively address
drug, gang and youth violence problems, and establishing information-sharing
programs that would allow schools, criminal justice systems and social service
centers the tools needed to make informed decisions regarding the treatment and
prevention of young criminals. Program objectives include:

127

 State Criminal Justice Plan

•

Build or expand juvenile detention facilities;

•

Hire judges, prosecutors, probation officers and court-appointed defenders to
ensure the expeditious administration of juvenile justice;

•

Fund pretrial services for juveniles;

•

Provide technology, equipment and training to assist prosecutors in
identifying and expediting the prosecution of violent juveniles;

•

Establish gun court and drug court programs; and

•

Implement a drug-testing policy for juveniles within certain categories of the
criminal justice system.

For Federal Fiscal Year 2000, the Authority has been awarded $8.3 million.
Seventy-five percent of the funds must be passed through to local units of
governments. Based on a formula of criminal justice expenditures and violent
crime rates, communities eligible for $5,000 or more receive automatic funding.
Request for proposals and a need based allocation process has been used for the
remaining local pass through funds. The Illinois Department of Corrections uses a
majority of the state level funds for juvenile parole agents. JAIBG requires a cash
match of 10 percent of the total project’s cost, except for construction of juvenile
detention facilities which requires a 50 percent match.

9.

State Identification Systems

The State Identification Systems (SIS) program enhances the capability of state
and local governments to identify and prosecute offenders by establishing or
upgrading information systems and DNA analysis capabilities. SIS also advances
efforts to integrate these systems with national databases operated by the FBI.
The purpose of the SIS program is to assist states in establishing, developing,
updating or upgrading the following types of identification systems:

• Computerized identification systems that are compatible and integrated with
the databases of the FBI’s National Crime Information Center (NCIC);
• DNA forensic laboratory analysis that is compatible and integrated with the
FBI’s Combined DNA Index System (CODIS); and
• Automated fingerprint identification systems that are compatible and
integrated with the FBI’s Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification
System (IAFIS).
The Authority administers these funds and subcontracts all funds to the Illinois
State Police (ISP). ISP uses these funds under the purpose area of computerized

128

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

identification systems. In Federal Fiscal Year 1999, the Authority was awarded
$163,156 for this program. Federal funding for this program has been
discontinued.

10.

National Sex Offender Registry Program

The National Sex Offender Registry Assistance Program (NSOR-AP), a
component of the United States Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics
(BJS) National Criminal History Improvement Program (NCHIP), supports the
goal of establishing an effective national registry of sexual offenders. The registry
will ensure that accurate and complete information about released sex offenders is
appropriately made available to protect the public and prevent further
victimization. Specifically, the program will help States ensure that:

• Sexual offender registries identify, collect, and properly disseminate
relevant information which is consistent, accurate, complete, and up-todate;

• Appropriate interfaces with the FBI's national system are established so
that State registry information on sexual offenders can be obtained and
tracked from one jurisdiction to another.
The FY 1998 BJS budget includes $25 million to support the national sexual
offender registry. Although all States currently have some form of registry in
place, many cannot efficiently or accurately share information. Accordingly, all
States will be eligible for an award from these funds. The BJS NSOR grant
program will assist States in meeting the requirements of federal legislation (The
Jacob Wetterling Crimes Against Children and Sexually Violent Offender
Registration Act, Megan's Law and the Pam Lychner Sexual Offender Tracking
and Identification Act) and related State standards. In 1999, this federal grant
program was absorbed under the NCHIP program described above.

11.

Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Council Grant Program

The General Assembly established the Illinois Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention
Council in 1991 to combat vehicle theft, insurance fraud, and related crimes. The
11-member council is made up of law enforcement and insurance industry
officials. The Council's responsibilities, as listed in the Illinois Motor Vehicle
Theft Prevention Act, include: assessing the scope of the problem of motor
vehicle theft, particularly in those areas of the state with the highest incident
rates; allocating funds made available for the purpose of the Act; and developing
and implementing strategies to combat motor vehicle theft. The Act requires that
insurance companies pay into a special trust fund in the state treasury. All
insurance companies licensed to write private passenger comprehensive coverage
are required to pay $1 into the fund annually for each vehicle insured. Collected
and administered by the Council, the funds total about $5.6 million each year.

129

 State Criminal Justice Plan

The Council allocated grants to support programs such as special auto theft task
forces and investigative teams, prosecutions, statewide audits of salvage yards,
juvenile diversion, public education, officer training, data analysis and other
activities. The Council funded 16 programs in 2000.

130

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

APPENDIX III
PARTICIPANTS IN THE PLANNING PROCESS
A.

Post-Criminal Justice Planning Assembly Advisory Committees:

Community Capacity Building

Drug and Violent Crime

Dr. James R. Coldren
University of Illinois at Chicago

Lieutenant Mark Bramlett
M.E.G. of Southwestern Illinois

Deputy Superintendent Barbara McDonald
Chicago Police Department

Chief Ken McCabe
Kankakee County Sheriff’s Department

Lynda Dautenhahn
Illinois Department of Health

Amy Davis
McLean County Public Defender’s Office

Darrell McGibany
Madison County Probation

William O’Brien
Narcotics Prosecution Bureau
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office

Janice DiGirolamo
Illinois Violence Prevention Authority
Chief William D. Miller
Elgin Police Department
Lee Gregory
Gang Crime Prevention Center
Illinois Attorney General’s Office
Captain Dave Sanders
Illinois State Police
Director Leslie Landis
City of Chicago
Mayor’s Office of Domestic Violence
Dr. Greg Scott
DePaul University
Jim McAuliff
McHenry County State’s Attorney’s Office
Paula Wolff
Metropolis 2020

131

Phyllis DeMott, Executive Director
A Safe Place
Dr. Gary Slutkin
Chicago Project for Violence Prevention
University of Chicago
David Dierks
Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse
Illinois Department of Human Services
Dave VanLandegen
Director of Court Services
14th Judicial District
Honorable Lawrence Fox, Judge
Cook County Drug Court
Dr. Ralph Weisheit
Illinois State University
Steve Karr
Illinois Department of Corrections

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Information Systems and Technology

Juvenile Crime

Rich Adkins
Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts

Ron Ellis
Illinois State Police

Sgt. Jonathan Lewin
Chicago Police Department

David Reed
Northwestern University School of Law

David Baer, Director
Bradley University Police Department

Honorable Sophia Hall
Presiding Judge, Juvenile Division
Cook County Circuit Court

Randall Murphy
Lake County Administrator
Brent Crossland
Deputy Technology Officer
Illinois Governor’s Office
Gerald E. Nora
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Brian Goggin, Systems Manager
Cook County, Illinois
John Roe
City of Chicago
Terry Gough
Illinois State Police

Barbara Shaw, Executive Director
Illinois Violence Prevention Authority
Dr. James M. Janik
Cook County Juvenile Temporary Detention
Center
Bill Sifferman, Deputy Director
Cook County Probation and Court Services
Ms. Paula Wolff
Senior Executive, Metropolis 2020
Glen Steinhausen
Illinois State Board of Education
David Kliment
Kane County Public Defender’s Office

Jerry Sciaraffa
Office of the Clerk of the Court
Cook County

Anne Studzinski
Illinois Department of Human Services

Lt. Col. Teresa M. Kettelkamp
Illinois State Police

Gary Leofanti, Executive Director
Illinois Collaboration on Youth

Ms. Carol Gibbs
Illinois State Police

Dick Walsh
Illinois Juvenile Officer’s Association

Giacomo A. "Jack" Pecoraro
Illinois Department of Corrections

Kip Owen, Division Chief
Juvenile Justice Bureau
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office

132

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Offender Services

Victims of Crime

Olga Becker, Executive Director
Chicago Abused Women’s Coalition

Susan Catania
Illinois Department of Human Services

Margie Groot
Illinois Department of Corrections

Polly Poskin, Executive Director
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault

Craig Chval, Executive Director
Illinois Gang Crime Prevention Center

Sanders Darbonne
Office of Rehabilitation Services

Gerald L. Hanson
Pretrial Services Coordinator
Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts

Joan Rappaport
Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence

Sister Pat Davis
Prison and Family Ministry
Dr. Arthur Lurigio
Loyola University of Chicago
William Doster, Superintendent
Sangamon County Sheriff’s Department
Maureen McDonnell
Treatment Alternatives for Safe Communities
Rita Fry
Cook County Public Defender
Allen Nance, Deputy Director
Adult Probation Services, 18th Judicial Circuit
Michael Tardy
Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts
Honorable Theodore Paine
Associate Judge
Macon County Courts Facility

Ann Henslee, Victim Witness Coordinator
McHenry County State’s Attorney’s Office
Proshat Shekarloo
Horizons Community Center
Billie Larkin, Executive Director
McLean County Child Advocacy Center
Holly Zielke
Department on Aging
David Mallham
Mothers Against Drunk Driving
Martha Newton
Illinois Attorney General’s Office
Jerri Lynn Fields
Rape Victim Advocates
John Millner, Chief
Elmhurst Police Department
John Kinsella
DuPage County State's Attorney's Office
Judith Martin
Chicago Police Department
John Kocinski
DuPage County State's Attorney's Office
Mike Maloney
Department of Human Services

133

 State Criminal Justice Plan

B.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Committees

PLANNING AND RESEARCH

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

Hon. James E. Ryan, Chair
Illinois Attorney General
Designee: Robert B. Spence

Hon. Michael J. Waller, Chair
State's Attorney of Lake County

Albert A. Apa
Member of the General Public

Sam W. Nolen
Director, Illinois State Police
Designee: Asst. Dep. Dir. Kenneth
Bouche

Sam W. Nolen
Director, Illinois State Police
Designee: Asst. Dep. Dir. Kenneth
Bouche

Hon. Timothy Bukowski
Sheriff of Kankakee County

Terry G. Hillard
Superintendent, Chicago Police
Department
Designee: Dep. Supt. Barbara McDonald

Hon. Richard A. Devine
State's Attorney of Cook County
Designee: Gerald E. Nora

Hon. John C. Piland
Member of the General Public

Norbert J. Goetten
Office of the State's Attorney Appellate
Prosecutor
Designee: Scott Manuel

Dr. Thomas J. Jurkanin
Illinois Law Enforcement Training
and Standards Board

Terry G. Hillard
Superintendent, Chicago Police
Department
Designee: Dep. Supt. Barbara McDonald

Donald N. Snyder, Jr.
Director, Illinois Department of
Corrections
Designee: Asst. Dep. Dir. Giacomo A.
"Jack" Pecoraro

Hon. Michael Sheahan
Sheriff of Cook County
Designee: Jim McGing

134

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

C.

Ad Hoc Advisory Committee for the Planning Assembly

Hon. Steven R. Allendorf
Sheriff, Jo Daviess County

William Siffermann
Circuit Court of Cook County

William Gilbert
Illinois Department of Corrections

Phyllis DeMott
Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence

Dan Roach
Quad City MEG Unit
Kenneth Bouche
Illinois State Police
Margie Groot
Illinois Department of Corrections
Michael J. Rohan
Circuit Court of Cook County
Dr. James R. Coldren
University of Illinois at Chicago
Victoria Gwiasda
Illinois Violence Prevention Authority
Dr. Greg Scott
Gang Crime Prevention Center

William D. Miller
Chief, Elgin Police Department
Dr. James Swartz
Treatment Alternatives for Safe
Communities
Kim Donahue
Illinois State Police
Gerald E. Nora
Office of the Cook County State's
Attorney
Mike Tardy
Administrative Office of the Illinois
Courts
Jo Anne Durkee
Illinois Department of Human Services

Carol Corgan
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual
Assault

Polly Poskin
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault

Barbara McDonald
Chicago Police Department

Brenda Welch
Illinois Juvenile Justice Commissions
Paul D. Fields
Office of the Cook County Public
Defender
Joan Rappaport
Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence

D.

135

Criminal Justice Planning Assembly: Discussion Groups

 State Criminal Justice Plan

Drug and
Violent Crime

Juvenile
Crime

Victims of
Violent Crime

Staff:

Staff:

Staff:

Dr. David Olson
Robert Bauer
Tracy Hahn
Robert Taylor

Mark Myrent
Sharyn Adams
Mildred Cox
Phil Stevenson

Karen Richards
Jennifer Hiselman
Kelly MacDowell
Anne Tillett

Participants:

Participants:

Participants:

Steven Allendorf
Albert Apa
Matt Bettenhausen
Mark Bramlett
James Donahue
Steve Fermon
Lawrence Fichter
Norbert Goetten
David Gould
Mary Griffin
Mark Henry
Michael Hughes
Sam Nolen
William O'Brien
John Piland
Bill Simmons
Jude Skallurep
Gary Slutkin
Mike Smith
Robert Spence
Margarette Truschel
Dave VanLandegen
Ralph Weisheit
Timothy Witney

Rodney Ahitow
Cheryl Cesario
Kevin Downey
Gary Duerkoop
Ron Ellis
Michael Fendrich
Ralph Grayson
Victoria Gwiasda
Sophia Hall
John Harris
James Janik
Esther Jenkins
Marcia Nicklas
Kip Owen
Barbara Shaw
Bill Sifferman
Loren Simmons
Anne Studzinski
Eileen Subak

Stephen Baker
Jackie Buckley
Nancy Carlson
Susan Catania
Mike Costigan
Martha Daly
Rick Einfeldt
Kris Hamilton
Stephanie Hugle
John Kinsella
Billie Larkin
Karen McKenna
Jeffrey McNeal
John Millner
Martha Newton
Cheryl Peterson
Polly Poskin
Joan Rappaport
Maureen Robinson
Erin Sorenson
Deborah Whitworth

136

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Offender
Services

Community Capacity
Building

Information Systems
and Technology

Staff:

Staff:

Staff:

Maureen Brennan
Christine Martin
Erica Morrow
Ron Reichgelt

Karen Griffiths
Gary Kupsak
Karen McCanna
Gail Woods

Steve Prisoc
Laura Egger
John Evans
Dan Higgins

Participants:

Participants:

Participants:

Olga Becker
John Bentley
Jennifer Black
Craig Chval
Pat Davis
Phyllis DeMott
Kim Donahue
Robert Dougherty
Rita Fry
Margie Groot
Gerald Hanson
Barbara Hayler
Dimitri Kesari
Arthur Lurigio
Michael Mahoney
Maureen McDonnell
Manny Mill
Allen Nance
Theodore Paine
Jody Sundt
William Watts

Rick Barkes
Diane Bedrosian
Jan Bond
Jane Buckwalter
Anthony Chiesa
James Coldren
Lynda Dautenhahn
Janice DiGirolamo
Barbara Engel
Lee Gregory
Jerry Hughes
Frank Kaminski
Katherine Klimisch
Leslie Landis
William Miller
Cecilia Peeler
Dave Sanders
Greg Scott
Irving Spergel
Jennifer Welch
Rob Willey
Paula Wolff

Rich Adkins
David Baer
Diana Clegg
Brent Crossland
Paul Fields
Carol Gibbs
Brian Goggin
Joseph Gordon
Terry Gough
Susan Johns
Teresa Kettelkamp
Jonathon Lewin
Paul Logli
Mark Maton
Michael Mowen
Randall Murphy
Gerald Nora
Jack Pecoraro
John Roe
Tom Sanders
Elizabeth Scholz
Jerry Sciaraffa
John Towns

137

 