ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
AD HOC AUTHORITY BOARD COMMITTEE MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
September 18, 2018 at 10am – Noon
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Roll Call
Chair Paula Wolff welcomed board members and guests to the Ad Hoc Authority
Board Committee Meeting. The meeting was called to order at 10:06 a.m. and
Acting General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz called the roll.
Committee Member Attendance
Director Paula Wolff (Chair)
Honorable Elizabeth Robb
Deputy Director Antwan Turpeau
Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Other Authority Members Present
Carla Barnes
James O’Grady
Nicole Kramer
Era Laudermilk
David Olson
Cynthia Hora

Present Telephone Absent
X
X
X
X
Present Telephone Absent
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
Dr. Megan Alderden, ICJIA Research Director
Malgorzata Bereziewicz, ICJIA Acting General Counsel
Wanda Block, ICJIA Grant Monitor
Marilyn Jackson, ICJIA, Administrative Specialist
Bryant Jackson-Green, ICJIA Strategic Policy Analyst
John Maki, ICJIA Executive Director
Robin Murphy, ICJIA Deputy Counsel
Gregory Stevens, ICJIA Acting Associate Director of the Federal and State Grants
Unit
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 Ms. Bereziewicz stated a quorum had been achieved.
Chairman’s Remarks
Chair Wolff welcomed all attendees and introductions were made. She asked if
there were any changes to the July 12, 2018, meeting minutes. Seeing there were
none, she asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Ms. Kramer made a motion
to approve the minutes and Ms. Laudermilk seconded the motion. The motion
passed by unanimous vote.
Executive Director’s Report
Director John Maki opened a discussion on the role of the ICJIA Board. He said
the meetings might be more effective if they were structured like seminars with an
overview of ICJIA programs and the process behind them and opportunities for the
board to ask questions.
Discussion: Committee Recommendation for Meetings and Materials
Mr. Maki said the agency was challenged to staff the various committees and task
forces created via legislative mandate and manage other mandated projects. He
added that with several different funding sources, there is no easy way around the
complexity of ICJIA’s work.
Ms. Wolff noted her request in the minutes for a flow chart of the grant-making
process. Mr. Maki said that will be part of work presented to the Board.
Judge Robb suggested ICJIA staff reports back to the Board on the research that is
under way.
Ms. Hora said she would like to see the Board work on programmatic issues that
currently are only addressed at the committee level.
Ms. Wolff suggested taking a look at new research recommendations from Board
members, discussing local context and focus based on the county coordinating council
work, and asking questions of those involved in the studies.
Mr. Maki asked the committee for their thoughts on offering a Board orientation
similar to the one that was created two years ago for the Board. Jennifer VollenKatz suggested having the committee conduct Board orientation with the goal of
creating a fully functioning Board. Judge Robb agreed that orienting Board
members on a regular basis was a good idea. Ms. Vollen-Katz suggested Board
members should orient other Board members so they know what to expect.
Ms. Kramer suggested that Board members are notified ahead of time which
notices of funding opportunity (NOFOs) are coming. Mr. Maki said staff could

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 start notifying the Board of NOFOs with the hope that members would circulate
the NOFOs broadly to increase participation.
Ms. Laudermilk stated that ICJIA could empower Board members by putting them
in charge of a project. Ms. Kramer said she can appreciate Board member
availability, and asked if there’s another way for providing updates to, and
answering questions/issues from Board members.
Review and Discuss ICJIA’s Enabling Statute
Director Maki turned the committee’s attention to ICJIA’s statute and
administrative rules. He said Section 2 of the statute concerning evaluation of
information practices and programs does not precisely reflect ICJIA’s work. He
also noted victim services were not included in the statute’s definition of a
criminal justice system in Section 3(a). The section primarily includes references
to enforcement, prosecution, and the rehabilitation of offenders through
imprisonment, probation, parole, aftercare release and treatment, he said.
Mr. Maki asked whether mandated Board membership should be reconsidered,
especially in light of difficulties in achieving quorum at meetings. He asked
whether a victim services representative should be added to the board. Ms. Wolff
noted victim service representatives could be added as members of the public. Mr.
Maki also suggested the possibility of focusing only on local and regional
representation on the Board.
Dr. Olson noted the lack of Board representation in the area of probation. Mr.
Maki agreed and added that juvenile justice also is not represented. Ms. VollenKatz asked whether a parole representative should be considered.
Mr. Maki gave an example of a new Board meeting structure, which would include
a presentation on an issue or topic from the Research & Analysis Unit and
information on programs in place or in development to address it. He said he
would forward an example of the structure to Board members.
Ms. Wolff suggested having time after the meeting’s main discussion and before
New Business for a quick critique of the meeting by board members. Mr. Maki
said it would be good to have staff provide feedback on how the meeting went.
With no further comments, Chair Wolff asked for a motion to adjourn. A motion
to adjourn was made by Ms. Kramer and seconded by Mr. O’Grady. The meeting
adjourned at 11:27 a.m.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 