ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312)
793-8550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board
Meeting Minutes
March 29, 2018, 1:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Era Laudermilk called the meeting to order at 1:07 p.m. ICJIA Associate General Counsel
Simeon Kim called the roll.
Member Name
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Executive Director John Maki, ICJIA
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak
Dr. Ana Lucic

Present
X
X

Absent

By Telephone

X
X
X
X
X

Four members were present in person and a quorum was established.
II. Approval of Meeting Minutes: February 2, 2018.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Dr. Cooper moved to approve the
minutes. Director Maki seconded the motion. Ms. Laudermilk abstained. The motion passed by
voice vote.
III. Applications for Review
A. Examining Hospital Records of Prisoners
Principal investigators: Jessica Reichert
Ms. Reichert said that researchers will examine patterns to learn the characteristics of
prisoners more likely to have certain and multiple health issues based on hospital
Page   1

 discharge data held by IDPH. Health issues may include drug overdose, asthma, diabetes,
hepatitis, or HIV/AIDS; and indicators of community and interpersonal violence such as
gun shots. Analyses will aid in understanding the complex needs and costs of care for the
formerly incarcerated.
Era Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the application. Mr. Maki moved to
approve the application. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
B. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) Alteration to or
Waiver of Individual Authorization
Principal investigator: Jessica Reichert
Ms. Reichert reminded the IRB that they approved the Outcome Evaluation of the Safe
Passage Initiative last May. She said a part of it was to look at drug treatment provider
data. She said that some of the drug treatment providers want a HIPAA waiver for data
that has already been collected.
Ms. Laudermilk asked that Ms. Reichert go line by line through the checklist. Ms.
Reichert went through the checklist, and the IRB found that items 1 – 4 exist.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the HIPAA waiver. Dr. Cooper moved to
approve the waiver. Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous
voice vote.
C. Evaluation of Transitional Housing Programs in Illinois
Principal Investigators: Alysson Gatens
Ms. Gatens said that she will be doing a process evaluation of transitional housing
programs that have been funded for over a year. She said that they will be doing
interviews with staff and clients of the program. She said that they will also get
administrative data and intake information that will be de-identified. Dr. Cooper asked if
the interviews will take place in a private location, and he wanted an assurance that the
locations are actually private. Ms. Gatens replied that the interviews would take place in a
private conference room at the sites.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the amendment. Dr. Cooper moved to
approve the application. Director Maki seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
D. Victim and Family Member Interviews: Linking Systems of Care for Children, Youth,
& Families
Principle Investigator: Amanda Vasquez
Page   2

 Ms. Vasquez said that the purpose of the present study is to identify the needs of
child/youth victims and family members/caregivers of young victims. This study also
seeks to explore the capacity of systems of care to meet those needs from the perspectives
of adults with childhood victimization histories and family members/caregivers of child
victims. Study participants will participate in a brief online survey seeking to better
understand child/youth victimization experiences and child/youth and family
member/caregiver interactions with systems of care following victimization. Select
participants will be invited for a phone or in-person interview to obtain a more
comprehensive understanding of child/youth victimization and systems of care
involvement.
Ms. Laudermilk asked if Ms. Vasquez is screening out subjects who are on probation or
parole. Ms. Vasquez replied that they are not asking if the subjects are on probation or
parole. Dr. Cooper said that he would consider the research slightly more than minimal
risk. It is like moderate risk because Ms. Vasquez is asking about experiences of
victimization. He said that the consent form should be a little more explicit; people may
not recount these experiences in their everyday life. He said that they should be aware
that they may experience discomfort, and be given information about services if they feel
discomfort. Ms. Vasquez said that she will change both consent forms.
Dr. Lucic had concerns about the questions regarding self-harming. She said that people
should know up front that these questions may also cause discomfort. Ms. Laudermilk
said that the warning should stated on the informed consent forms. Ms. Vasquez said that
she will make the changes.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve of the application. Dr. Cooper made a
motion for conditional approval of the application. Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. The
motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
E. Preliminary Study of LGBTQ Victimization and Help-Seeking amendment.
Principle Investigator: Amanda Vasquez
Ms. Vasquez said that the amendment is proposing to add research staff, add two selfharm questions, and retain participant contact information for follow-up and Phase 2.
Dr. Lucic said that there are a number of questions that could make the subject
uncomfortable, so there should be a more information in the consent form about this
aspect of the study. Ms. Laudermilk said that there is potential for the subject to relive
some trauma, so people should know up front when giving consent to participate. Ms.
Vasquez asked if the board is suggesting, like in the last study, that she should add some
language that there may be increased risk in answering some of the questions of distress.
Ms. Lucic said yes and that Ms. Vasquez should include resources for the subjects to talk
to after the survey. Ms. Vasquez said that a resource list is provided with providers who
know about the study.

Page   3

 Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve of the application. Director Maki made a
motion for conditional approval of the application. Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. The
motion passed by unanimous voice vote. Ms. Laudermilk said that the approval is
conditioned upon the addition of language in the informed consent notifying people of the
potential of more than minimal harm that can result.
F. Evaluation of PERC (Pathway to Enterprise for Returning Citizens) amendment
Principle Investigator: Justin Escamilla
Mr. Escamilla said that the amendment adds a client exist survey, staff exit survey, and
the organizational information tool survey.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve of the application. Dr. Cooper made a
motion to approve the application. Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
IV. Old business
None.
V. New Business
A. Ms. Laudermilk informed the board that two IRB application were approved through
the expedited review process – Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice Recidivism Study
and Evaluation of Dual Diagnosis in Logan Correctional Center.
VI. Adjourn
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to adjourn. Director Maki moved to adjourn. Dr. Cooper
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
The IRB meeting adjourned at approximately 1:53 pm.

Page   4

 