ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
June 21, 2018, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 10:25 a.m. Deputy
General Counsel Robin Murphy called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Present Telephone
Peter Kocerka for Cook Co. Public Defender Amy
X
Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
X
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
X
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Jim O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
X
Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Present Telephone
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State Appellate Defenders Office Director James Chadd
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson

Absent

X

X

X
Absent
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 6/21/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
David Olson
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Kathryn Saltmarsh
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Antwan Turpeau for Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services Director Beverly Walker

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Rick Krause, Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Executive Director John Maki
ICJIA Deputy General Counsel Robin Murphy
ICJIA Program Supervisor Mary Ratliff
Sheila Regan, CeaseFire
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Acting Associate Director Greg Stevens Other
Authority staff members and guests

1. Minutes of the February 28, 2018, Budget Committee Meeting
Ms. Hora requested a correction to the minutes to reflect that Judge Robb chaired the
February 28, 2018, meeting and that Ms. Hora was absent.
Ms. Kramer requested a correction to the motion under Item 3 on Page 3 of the minutes
(corrected text in italics):
Ms. Campanelli moved to approve the recommended designations. Ms. Kramer
seconded the motion.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the minutes of the February 28, 2018, Budget
Committee Meeting as corrected. Mr. O’Grady seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 6/21/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

2. State Appropriated Programs
Mr. Stevens referred the Budget Committee members to a memo dated June 21, 2018,
on State Appropriated Programs.
2A - CeaseFire / Chicago Project for Violence Prevention
Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman called attention to the Designation Recommendation
Form describing CeaseFire / Chicago Project for Violence Prevention (CPP). He said
staff recommended designating $5,484,870 in SFY19 CPP funds to the University of
Illinois at Chicago School of Public Health to support the program in 15 communities.
Sheila Regan, representing the CeaseFire program, explained some of the statistics
listed in the Grant Recommendation Report.
2B - Community-Based Violence Prevention and Intervention
Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman called attention to the Designation Recommendation
Form describing Community-Based Violence Intervention and Prevention (CB-VIP)
programs. He said staff recommended designating approximately $6.8 million in SFY19
CB-VIP funds to support 17 programs addressing community coalitions, public
awareness, and direct services.
2C - Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Councils
Program Supervisor Mary Ratliff called attention to the Designation Recommendation
Form describing the Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Councils (IFVCC). She said
staff requested $439,950 in SFY19 IFVCC funds to support 13 local family violence
coordinating councils in judicial circuits around Illinois.
2D – Safe from the Start
Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman called attention to the Designation Recommendation
Form describing Safe from the Start (SFS) programs. He said staff recommended
designating $1,031,400 in SFY19 SFS funds to entities as described in the table on Page
45 of the meeting materials.
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve the recommended designation of SFY19 CPP
funds to CeaseFire. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Mr. O’Grady.
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve the recommended designations of SFY19 CBVIP, IFVCC, and SFS funds. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 6/21/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

3. Justice Assistance Grants FFY13, FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 Plan Adjustments
Designation Reductions
Acting Associate Director Stevens referred the Budget Committee members to a memo
dated June 21, 2018, regarding the Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) programs. He
described FFY13, FFY14, and FFY15 funds recently returned to ICJIA.
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve the recommended FFY13, FFY14, and FFY15
JAG designation reductions. Mr. O’Grady seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Recommended Designations
Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime
Acting Associate Director Stevens called attention to the meeting materials describing
recommended designations. He described $61,146 in FFY16 JAG funds recommended
for designations to provide continuing support to two Illinois Partnerships to Reduce
Violent Crime programs.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended FFY16 JAG designations to
two Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime programs. Mr. Kocerka seconded the
motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Notice of Funding Opportunity: JAG Operations
Acting Associate Director Stevens described a Notice of Funding Opportunity to
support a three-pronged strategy for court, prosecution, and defense programs. The
funding opportunity was released during the first quarter of 2018. He described funding
issues resulting from the delay in the receipt of FFY17 JAG funds from the U.S.
Department of Justice. He described recommended designations to entities to support
Operational Effectiveness.
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve the recommended designation of $74,878 in
FFY14 JAG funds to support Operational Effectiveness at the Winnebago County Youth
Court program. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 6/21/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve recommended designations to the Cook County
Public Defender’s Office of $133,514 in JAG FFY14 funds and $29,771 in JAG FFY15
funds, to support Operational Effectiveness in the office’s Mitigation and DNA & Digital
Evidence programs. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Mr. Kocerka.
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve recommended designations to the Cook County
State’s Attorney’s Office of $225,000 and $124,350 in JAG FFY16 funds to support
Operational Effectiveness in the office’s Community Justice Centers and Human
Trafficking programs. Mr. Kocerka seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Ms. Kramer.
4. Victim Assistance Discretionary Grant Training Program FFY15 Plan
Adjustments
Acting Associate Director Stevens referred the Budget Committee members to a memo
dated June 21, 2018, regarding the FFY15 Victim Assistance Discretionary Grant
Training (VADGT) program introduction.
Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt explained that VADGT funds were received via a
discretionary grant from the U.S. Office for Victims of Crime. He said $103,886 in
FFY15 VADGT funds were recently returned to ICJIA. He also described a staff
recommendation to designate $150,000 in FFY15 VADGT funds to the Illinois
Coalition Against Domestic Violence to develop and hold a statewide conference for
VOCA grantees in August 2018. He said the conference would focus on traumainformed services in Illinois and grantee compliance issues involving grant applications
and reporting as they relate to the Grant Accountability and Transparency Act.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the designation of $150,000 in FFY15 VADGT
funds to the ICADV to develop and hold a statewide conference. Mr. O’Grady seconded
the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
5. Victims of Crime Act FFY15 and FFY16 Plan Adjustments
Acting Associate Director Stevens referred the Budget Committee members to a memo
dated June 21, 2018, regarding the FFY15 and FFY16 VOCA plan adjustments.
Designation Reductions
Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt described FFY15 and FFY16 VOCA funds recently
returned to ICJIA. He said many grantees lapsed unusually large amounts because their
agreements were terminated in a transition from the old funding system of annual

 6/21/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

continuations to a new competitive process. He said original program agreements were
terminated as programs were awarded funds via the competitive process and their new
agreements started. Grantees experienced no interruption in programming, he said.
Motion: Mr. O’Grady moved to approve the recommended FFY15 and FFY16 VOCA
designation reductions. Mr. Olson seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote with a recusal by Ms. Kramer.
Recommended Designations
Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt described recommended designations totaling
$5,985,738 in FFY16 VOCA funds to continue Comprehensive Legal Assistance
programs for an additional 12 months.
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve designations totaling $5,985,738 in FFY16
VOCA funds to support Comprehensive Legal Assistance programs. Mr. O’Grady
seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
6. Violence Against Women Act Sexual Assault Service Program FFY18 Plan
Introduction
Acting Associate Director Stevens referred the Budget Committee members to a memo
dated June 21, 2018, regarding the FFY18 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
Sexual Assault Service Program (SASP) plan introduction.
Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey said that VAWA SASP was created to support rape
crisis centers, direct intervention, and related assistance to victims of sexual assault. She
said the recommended designation of $503,870 to the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual
Assault (ICASA) would support rape crisis centers statewide that provide core services,
direct intervention, and related assistance including the provision of hotline, advocacy,
counseling, and outreach services to victims of sexual assault. The funded agencies will
be selected through a competitive process in which applicants will be evaluated based
on demonstrated need in the service area, previous and proposed performance,
reasonableness of program plan, consistency of budget, and program plan compliance
with ICASA’s service standards.
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve the recommended designation of $503,870 in
FFY18 VAWA SASP funds to ICASA to support rape crisis centers statewide. Mr.
O’Grady seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 6/21/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 7

Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and
the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:31 a.m.

 