ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 7938550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board
Meeting Minutes
October 19, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

I. Call to Order
Era Laudermilk called the meeting to order at 3:30 p.m. ICJIA Associate General Counsel Simeon
Kim called the roll.
II. Roll Call
Member Name
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Executive Director John Maki, ICJIA
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak

Present
X
X

Absent

By Telephone

X
X
X
X

Four members were present in person and a quorum was established.
III. Approval of Meeting Minutes: October 19, 2017
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Dr. Harrington moved to approve the
minutes. Ms. Szilak seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice vote.
IV. Applications for Review
1. Full IRB applications
a. Evaluation of Pathway to Enterprise for Returning Citizens (PERC) Program: Focus
Groups
Principle investigators: Jessica Reichert and Justin Escamilla
Page   1

 Mr. Escamilla said that researchers will complete an evaluation of the PERC program. The
program offers intensive business training and planning to formerly incarcerated/returning
citizens and the opportunity to receive a business loan to start their own business. The first
component of the evaluation is to conduct five focus groups with each of the five agencies
that will conduct the business training (and possible follow up interviews). The purpose is
to better understand the training aspect including its training structure and process.
There was no discussion. Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the application.
Mr. Maki moved to approve the application. Dr. Harrington seconded the motion. The
motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
b. Building capacity for recidivism analysis: Examining the recidivism of sex offenders
using state criminal history and sex offender registry data
Principle investigator: Christine Devitt Westley
Mrs. Devitt-Westley said that The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA)
has received a federal grant from the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice
Statistics to determine the historic recidivism rates of the 29,620 individuals currently on
the Illinois Sex Offender Registry (SOR), using multiple sources of data. Of particular
interest will be whether these recidivism rates differ by type of sexually motivated crime,
particularly regarding the characteristics of victims (child vs. adult, male vs. female, etc.).
Criminal History Record Information (CHRI) data will be matched to persons listed on the
SOR as of February 1, 2017, to determine their rates of re-arrest since their first offense
that mandated registration as a sex offender in Illinois. These records will also be matched
to any corresponding prison records from Illinois Department of Corrections (IDOC) and
the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice (IDJJ) data, to allow for determination of
incarceration periods during which there was no risk of reoffending in the community. As a
further refinement of recidivism estimates, the 29,620 registrants will also be linked to
Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) death certificate records. From these records,
it will be possible to determine if some proportion of SOR registration non-compliance is
due to the death of the person. The State Police will be informed of the magnitude of
underreporting of death events in the SOR, if any, at the end of the project. The State
Police Sex Offender Registration Unit will also provide another snapshot of the Sex
Offender Registry on February 1, 2018, in order to be able to assess the extent to which
registrant information changes over the typical yearly registration period. This new
registrant list (estimated to be of similar magnitude to the 29,620 individuals registered in
2017) will be matched to the 2017 registrant list, as well as the CHRI, corrections and
death record systems in order to determine any changes to recidivism rates established on
the 2017 registrant group.
Dr. Harrington asked if there are different categories of sex offender registrants, with some of
the levels not being accessible to the public. He asked if there should be different levels of risk.
Lily Gleicher said that only juveniles do not appear on the public sex offender registry. Mrs.
Devitt-Westley said that she may or may not have juvenile records. Dr. Harrington said that,
Page   2

 if juvenile records do not appear on the public web page and the information that is
coordinated together does, then his recommendation is that it is greater than minimal risk.
Mrs. Devitt-Westley said that she will amend the application.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the application. Dr. Harrington moved to
approve the application with the modification to the privacy risk. Ms. Szilak seconded the
motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
c. Evaluation of a CVE/TVP Workshop for Mental Health Professionals
Principle Investigators: Megan Alderden and Lily Gleicher
Ms. Gleicher said that the research will measure if the workshop met its goals. The findings
may be used to improve future workshops and inform other jurisdictions on holding
workshops/training on countering violent extremism (CVE) and targeted violence
prevention (TVP). There are four components to the study:
1. Workshop observations: Workshop observations to document workshop content and
questions asked during the workshop.
2. Pre-workshop and post-workshop surveys: Paper and pen pre- and post-workshop
surveys will be used to document knowledge attainment and perceptions of the
workshop.
3. 3-month post-workshop follow-up survey: An online, 3-month post-workshop follow-up
survey will be used to gauge knowledge retention and information use.
4. 3-months post-workshop phone interviews: 3-month post-workshop phone interviews to
obtain additional detail about information usage and how the workshop can be
improved.
Ms. Szilak said that she does not like CVE and is opposed to it, but it would be nice to see
what is going on with it. Dr. Harrington asked if there is any risk of the identification of
people that Homeland Security would be interested in. Ms. Laudermilk said that the
subjects are licensed professionals who are being asked about what they learned at the
workshop in a professional capacity, not about the clients that they serve.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the application. Mr. Maki moved to approve
the application. Ms. Laudermilk seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous
voice vote.
V. Old business
None.
VI. New Business
None.
Page   3

 VII. Adjourn
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to adjourn. Mr. Maki moved to adjourn. Dr. Harrington
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote at 1:30 p.m.

Page   4

 