ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
September 24, 2015
1:00 p.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Budget Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority met on
Thursday, September 24, 2015, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room,
Chicago, Illinois. Authority Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora (representing
Attorney General Lisa Madigan) called the meeting to order at 1:04 p.m. Authority
Associate General Counsel Simeon Kim called the roll.
Other Authority members and designees present were:
Nicole Kramer for State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Parul Desai for Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Marlena Jentz for Sheriff Tom Dart
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb (via teleconference)
Col. James Winters for Director Leo Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Also in attendance were:
Authority Executive Director John Maki
Authority Associate Director, Federal and State Grants Unit, Kevin Givens
Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
Authority Program Supervisor Greg Stevens
Authority Program Supervisor Mary Ratliff
Authority Program Supervisor Mary Ann Dyar
Authority Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Authority Federal and State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
Other Authority staff members and guests.

 1. Public Comment
None.

2. Minutes of the June 19, 2015 Budget Committee Meeting
Ms. Wolff noted that the attendance listed Hon. Robb twice and requested that the second
listing be removed.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the Minutes of the June 19, 2015 Budget
Committee meeting, as corrected. Col. Winters seconded the motion and it passed by
unanimous voice vote.

3. Minutes of the August 6, 2015 Budget Committee Meeting
Ms. Hora requested that Rebecca Janowitz of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
be added to the attendance list.
Ms. Hora said that the second sentence of the third full paragraph on Page 3 should read:
There were some attempts to do this in recent years, but they did were not quite as
effective as they could have been.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the Minutes of the August 6, 2015 Budget
Committee meeting, as corrected. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and it passed by
unanimous voice vote.

4. Justice Assistance Grants (JAG)
Authority Program Supervisor Greg Stevens, referring to the memo from Director Maki
dated September 24, 2015 regarding JAG FFY10, FFY11, and FFY12 plan adjustments
and FFY13 and FFY14 plan introductions and contained at Item 4 in the meeting
materials, described funds recently returned to the Authority, introduced the FFY13 and
FFY14 federal awards to the Authority, and described recommended designations.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended JAG FFY10 through FFY14
adjustments and designations. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and it passed by
unanimous voice vote, with an abstention by Ms. Kramer regarding recommendations
relating to the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
September 24, 2015
Page 2

 5. National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act (NFSIA)
Authority Program Supervisor Greg Stevens, referring to the memo from Director Maki
dated September 24, 2015 regarding the FFY15 NFSIA plan introduction and contained
at Item 5 in the meeting materials, described recommended designations.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended NFSIA FFY15 designations.
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.

6. Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act (RSAT)
Authority Program Supervisor Greg Stevens, referring to the memo from Director Maki
dated September 24, 2015 regarding the FFY15 RSAT plan introduction and contained at
Item 6 in the meeting materials, described recommended designations.
Mr. Stevens said that 10 percent of the award must be set aside for local use, but no
recipient has yet been identified; staff is currently working on a request-for-proposals
(RFP) for these funds. He said that the Budget Committee would have an opportunity to
review the RFP before it is let out.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended RSAT FFY15 designations.
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.

7. Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt, referring to the memo from Director Maki
dated September 24, 2015 regarding the FFY09 and FFY11 through FFY14 plan
adjustments and designations contained at Item 7 in the meeting materials, described
funds recently returned to the Authority and recommended designations.
Motion: Col. Winters moved to approve the recommended VAWA FFY09 and FFY11
through FFY14 plan adjustments and designations. Ms. Paziotopoulos seconded the
motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote, with an abstention by Ms. Hora regarding
recommendations relating to the Illinois Attorney General’s Office.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
September 24, 2015
Page 3

 8. Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Sexual Assault Services Programs (SASP)
Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt, referring to the memo from Director Maki
dated September 24, 2015 regarding the VAWA SASP FFY15 plan introduction
contained at Item 8 in the meeting materials, described a recommended designation.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended RSAT FFY15 designations.
Col. Winters seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.

New Business
Director Maki introduced Kevin Givens as the new Associate Director of the Authority’s
Federal and State Grants Unit.
Director Maki said that DuPage County has done considerable work on a crime reporting
system and they recently requested further funding to support that effort. That
designation recommendation will be presented separately in the near future so that the
Budget Committee can be properly informed about and focused on that program.
State-Funded Programs
Adult Redeploy Illinois
Authority Program Supervisor Mary Ann Dyar said that she oversees the Adult Redeploy
Illinois (ARI) program. The program funds local jurisdictions to support alternatives to
incarceration for non-violent offenders. ARI operates 21 sites serving 39 counties. ARI
costs about $7 million to operate over a year. The lack of a state budget since July 1,
2015 has the ARI program owing its participating sites about $1.1 million for the first
quarter of state fiscal year 2016. So far, the sites have been able to find ways to cover
their costs, but the situation is growing more tenuous every day without ARI funding as
participating sites are beginning to lay off ARI program staff. The Governor’s Office of
Management and Budget has authorized the Authority to reimburse these grantees
retroactively to July 1, 2015 if and when a budget is passed that includes ARI funding. In
the interim, some sites have closed their doors to new referrals; others have scaled back
evidence-based practices, clinical assessments, drug testing, treatment services, and
relapse prevention. Community service providers who receive subcontracts from these
sites are also laying off staff. These layoffs and reductions in activities will have longterm repercussions. The Governor’s Commission on Criminal Justice and Sentencing
Reform has recommended reducing Illinois’s prison population by 25 percent by 2025
and has often mentioned ARI as a key component in making that happen. Besides the
impact on the clients, the effect on the system is chilling; courts are less likely to refer

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
September 24, 2015
Page 4

 offenders to ARI if they think ARI’s funding and existence is in jeopardy; programs are
losing valuable staff; and there is a loss in fidelity of evidence-based practices. During
any given quarter, ARI serves approximately 1,400 offenders who would otherwise be in
Illinois Department of Corrections (IDOC) custody. Without ARI, the potential cost of
sending half of those offenders (700) to IDOC upon revocation of probation, as well as
denying entry to 200 more offenders who would otherwise enroll in ARI, is estimated at
$15 million; ARI costs about $7 million annually.
Safe From the Start
Authority Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman said that Safe From the Start (SFS) has nine
community-based agencies throughout Illinois providing services to children aged 0-5
and their families who have been exposed to violence in the home and/or in the
community. SFS supports training and education for community members and
professionals, direct services, and collaboration and coalition building. Due to the budget
shortfall, most agencies have stopped performing collaboration and coalition building
work; they are only focusing on direct services. During the first two months of state fiscal
year 2016, these programs have had to come up with about $150,000 to make up for the
lack of SFS funding. As those resources dwindle, most of these agencies have stopped
accepting new clients. If the budget impasse continues, then these programs will stop
direct services sometime over the next six months.
Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Councils
Authority Program Supervisor Mary Ratliff said that the Illinois Family Violence
Coordinating Councils (IFVCC) exists to improve the justice system’s institutional,
professional, and community response to family violence. This is done via training,
community awareness, and committee work to bring about system changes. 23 councils
serve all of Illinois’s 102 counties. Most counties receive about $17,000 to support these
activities. Across the 23 councils, eight coordinators have stopped working, seven are on
reduced schedules, and three have vacant coordinator positions that have not been filled
as a result of the budget crisis. The IFVCCs also receive funding via a grant from the
United States Department of Justice’s Office for Violence Agianst Women (OVW) that
supports law enforcement and prosecution protocol development. As the IFVCCs
abilities have been compromised, the programs are not able to continue to meet the goals
and objectives of the OVW’s award.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
September 24, 2015
Page 5

 Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and
it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 2:39 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
September 24, 2015
Page 6

 