ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, September 8, 2017, at 9 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-502
Chicago, Illinois
Roll Call
ICJIA Vice Chair Patrick Delfino welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. He called the meeting
to order at 9:04 a.m. and asked Deputy General Counsel Robin Murphy to call the roll.
Chair Robb participated by phone, but was absent for OMA purposes. Quorum requires
12 of 22 members, which was not achieved during this meeting.
ICJIA Board Member Attendance
Director John Baldwin
Public Defender Carla Barnes
Clerk Dorothy Brown (after roll call)
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino, Vice Chair
Director Brent Fischer
State’s Attorney Kim Foxx
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Chief Jerry Mitchell
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director BJ Walker
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff

Present

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki spoke briefly about ICJIA’s two most recent notices of funding
opportunity, including one for community-based violence intervention (state) and one for
victims of community violence (federal). He also said ICJIA was staffing two unfunded
initiatives: the Sex Offenses and Sex Offender Registration Task Force and Criminal
Justice Coordinating Councils.
ICJIA Financial Report
ICJIA Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz compared ICJIA’s FY17 grantmaking to that
projected for FY18. He reported:
-

-

Total state grants received from ICJIA will rise from $7 million in FY17 to $20.6
million in FY18.
o Adult Redeploy Illinois’ state grant will increase to$6.7 million in FY18,
up from $5 million in FY17.
o Ceasefire received the largest appropriation in its history
o Violence intervention/prevention became a new spending category in
FY18, with ICJIA granting $6.3 million to support violence intervention
and prevention programs.
o Safe from the Start and Family Violence Coordinating Councils together
received $1.5 million for FY18 after being unfunded in FY17.
Total federal grants received by ICJIA rose from $36 million in FFY17 to $82.8
million in FFY18.
o Violence Against Women Act funds, Edward Byrne Memorial Justice
Assistance Grants, and other federal program funding remained about the
same.
o Victims of Crime Act funding projected to more than triple from $22.3
million in FFY17 to $70 million in FFY18.

Mr. Kurtz said ICJIA has spent or formally obligated 100 percent of its VOCA award,
while the national spending average was 69 percent. He added that most states simply
increased funding for existing grantees, where the Authority put together an Ad Hoc
committee on victim needs, and conducted research to identify gaps in services.
Committee Reports
Ms. Hora reported $67.2 million was designated at the May and July Budget Committee
meetings, including $6.8 million in state funding and $60.4 million in federal funding.
She said the committee approved $7.2 million for the community-based violence
intervention grant funding opportunity.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
September 8, 2017
Page 2

 Ms. Wolff informed the Board that the Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) had
received a presentation on the ICJIA’s violence prevention mandate, which included
discussion on community involvement and how federal funding plans complement and
agree with one another. She said attendees of the August meeting participated in a
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats analysis of the SOC and Budget
committee.
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats Analysis
Director Maki introduced the analysis by outlining some of the challenges the agency has
met in recent years:
-

-

Managed an increase in grants (from $37.6 million in FY15 to $103 million in
FY18) without an increase in staff.
Strengthening research and technical assistance, including an increase in
publications that inform practice; participation in statewide policy initiatives; and
involvement in national projects, such as Data-Driven Health & Justice and the
National Criminal Justice Reform Project.
Grant Accountability and Transparency Act implementation.

Director Maki spoke about changes in the role of the Board throughout ICJIA’s history
and introduced Dr. Megan Alderden to explain the SWOT procedure.
Dr. Alderden described how a SWOT analysis is used to build awareness of weaknesses
and threats and devise ways to respond to them with strengths and opportunities. The
most heavily discussed topics were on improving attendance at Board and committee
meetings with possible date and time changes and ways to orient new members, including
the possibility of a new committee.
The following strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats were discussed by ICJIA
Board members. Bolded suggestions were made during the Board meeting. Italicized
suggestions were made at the August SOC meeting. A list of potential solutions to some
of the issues and challenges discussed follows the SWOT table.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
September 8, 2017
Page 3

 STRENGTHS
-

WEAKNESSES
-

Some Board members willingness to engage
Board represents criminal justice system
Clear, transparent grant process
Board protects process
Information provided to board has improved
Committee structure
Public information

-

OPPORTUNITIES
-

Attendance (quorum, participation,
preparedness)
Meetings lack purpose, topics not relevant to
members
Board members are busy
Appearance of Chicago/Cook County focus
Technical capabilities (video/
teleconferencing)
Lack of clarity about internal grant process
Some funds lack strategic plans
Board members may have conflicts of
interest
Lack of board orientation (acronyms,
dates, quorum, voting, committee
requirements)
Voices of IDJJ and ex-offender
communities missing from board
Need to improve materials to illustrate
work the board has done

THREATS
-

Alternative meeting locations (Springfield,
Peoria, Champaign)
GATA provides better organization, clearer
vision, greater transparency and
accountability
Use of designees for committees
Voting as draw for attendance
Tapping into board member connections
with local associations and data sources

-

Changes in Board membership
Multiple external interests in funds and how
to use them (potential influence)
Lapsing funds
ICJIA offices in Chicago (and many board
members based here)
Grant work technicalities difficult to
understand
Statutes determining designee
participation

Board members offered several potential solutions to the issues discussed. These include:
-

Enhanced materials (with a combination of macro- and micro-level information)
Establishment of an orientation committee (with a team of ICJIA staff and Board
members familiarizing new members with statutes and goals)
Questionnaire to board (asking for topics of interest that deserve research
presentations, biggest agency and jurisdictional concerns, and how to ensure
attendance)

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
September 8, 2017
Page 4

 -

Full criminal justice system SWOT
More robust designee process (altering ICJIA’s administrative code to allow exofficio members to send designees, while requiring these designees are in high
enough positions that they can speak with the voice of the Board member and that
the same designee attends consistently)

Adjourn
Vice Chair Delfino invited members of the public to comment. Seeing none, he
adjourned the meeting at 10:57 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
September 8, 2017
Page 5

 