ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016, at 9 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Budget Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority met on
Thursday, August 18, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room, in
Chicago, Illinois. Authority Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora, representing
Attorney General Lisa Madigan, called the meeting to order at 9:04 a.m. Authority
General Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Authority members and designees present were:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Jennifer Greene for Budget Comm. Vice Chair /
Cook Co. State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Daynia Sanchez-Bass for Cook Co. Public
Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
James O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director
Leo Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Members Present
Authority Chair Judge Elizabeth Robb
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office
Director Pat Delfino

Present

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Present
X
X

Telephone

Absent

 Also in attendance were:
Authority Executive Director John Maki
Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
Authority Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Authority Deputy Director Randy Kurtz
Authority Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
Andy Munemoto, representing the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget
Mark Payne, representing Ceasefire
Authority Research & Evaluation Center Manager Jessica Reichert
Authority Program Supervisor Greg Stevens
Authority General Counsel Angie Weis
Other Authority staff members and guests
Minutes of the May 12, 2016, Budget Committee Meeting
Ms. Hora requested that a correction to the minutes be made on Page 4 in the first
sentence of the third paragraph. The correction should read (correction in italics):
“…the reason some VOCA grantees did not receive a 25-percent increase was…”
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes of the May 12, 2016, Budget
Committee Meeting, as corrected. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and the motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
Senate Bill 2047 Grants / Bullying Prevention & Ceasefire
Senate Bill 2047Appropriation Summary
General Counsel Angie Weis said the language of Senate Bill 20147 limits the
appropriations to cover grant costs incurred through December 31, 2016. However, the
grants themselves could support programs until June 30, 2017. In this scenario, the
Authority would have to provide advanced grant payments to the grantees prior to
December 31, 2016, so that the Authority’s costs would be incurred prior to December
31, 2016, even though the grantees would incur costs past that date. This would be
contrary to best grant-making practices and would violate the Authority’s policy
stipulating a maximum advanced payment of 90 days.
Andy Munemoto, representing the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget
(GOMB), said GOMB’s position was that advanced payments to grantees are allowable
under law, if not under the Authority’s policies. Safeguards against loss could be put in
place, such as increased grantee reporting frequency.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 2

 A discussion ensued regarding the merits of making an advance payment for these
programs. A consensus emerged it would violate Authority policy to make such an
advance payment and that doing so would create potential for an adverse audit finding. It
was further agreed that that this issue should be presented to the full Authority Board at
the September 16, 2016, Regular Meeting.
Bullying Prevention & Ceasefire
Associate Director Kevin Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016,
regarding the state fiscal year 2017 funding for Senate Bill 2047-supported programs. He
described proposed designations of Bullying Prevention and Ceasefire program funds
made available via the bill. A discussion ensued regarding the merits of funding these
programs for six months.
Mark Payne, representing Ceasefire, explained how Ceasefire would expend the grant
funds by December 31, 2016.
Executive Director John Maki, in response to a question by Ms. Dunne, said that further
budgetary details regarding Ceasefire would be made available at the September 16,
2016, Regular Meeting.
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the recommended SFY17 Bullying Prevention &
Ceasefire fund designations. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded the motion and the motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
Justice Assistance Grants
U.S Bureau of Justice Assistance Special Conditions
Director Maki called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, regarding U.S. Bureau
of Justice Assistance Special Conditions for Justice Assistance Grants Section 1373, 8
USC information. He said Authority staff worked with the National Criminal Justice
Association and the Bureau on this issue, which resulted in the Bureau establishing
special conditions for grantees affected by Section 1373, 8 USC, and identified in the
inspector general’s report, including the City of Chicago and Cook County, to allow their
respective grants to run until June 30, 2017. This will provide time for affected grantees
to work with ICJIA to come into compliance with the law, find ways to justify current
policy and practice under federal law, or lobby Congress to change the law. A discussion
ensued regarding possible strategies and preparations for the Authority and affected
grantees to become compliant with the law.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 3

 No action on this item was necessary and none was taken.
Analysis: Metropolitan Enforcement Groups (MEGs) and Task Forces (TFs)
Authority Research & Evaluation Center Manager Jessica Reichert delivered a
PowerPoint presentation entitled “MEG/TF Process & Outcome Evaluation
preliminary findings.”
No action on this item was necessary and none was taken.
Justice Assistance Grants: FFY10-FFY15 Plan Adjustments
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, on FFY10-FFY15 Justice
Assistance Grant plan adjustments. He described:





FFY10 and FFY11 funds recently returned to the Authority.
Recommended designations of FFY11-FFY15 funds for expanding
multijurisdictional narcotics units /task force programs.
Multijurisdictional drug prosecution programs.
Other programs.

Program Supervisor Greg Stevens said the Grant Recommendation Report for the
recommended designation to Be Well Partners in Health indicated a request for a
matching funds amount less than the standard 25 percent and that the Grant
Recommendation Reports for Haymarket Center and Winnebago County indicated
requests for matching funds waivers. All three requests would continue the matching
funds requirements for the existing grants for their respective programs.
Motion: Ms. Hora called for itemized motions to approve the plan adjustments described
in the memo. All items received motions and seconds and all were unanimously
approved, with noted abstentions.
Item / Grantee
Designation
Reductions
Expanding
Multijurisdictional
Narcotics Units
Multijurisdictional
Drug Prosecution
Be Well Partners in
Health
Coles Co.

Motion
Ms. Wolff

Second
Ms. Greene

Abstentions
None

Director Delfino

Ms. Greene

Mr. O’Grady

Ms. Dunne

Hon. Robb

Ms. Wolff

Ms. Greene

Director Delfino
Ms. Greene
Ms. Dunne

Ms. Wolff

Ms. Greene

None

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 4

 Cook Co. Public
Defender’s Office
Cook Co. State’s
Attorney’s Office
Haymarket Center
Illinois Center of
Excellence for
Behavioral Health
and Justice
Illinois Department
of Juvenile Justice /
Lake County
State’s Attorney’s
Office / State’
Appellate
Defender’s Office
State’s Attorney’s
Appellate
Prosecutor’s Office
Winnebago County
Circuit Court

Ms. Greene

Ms. Wolff

Ms. Sanchez-Bass

Ms. Wolff

Director Delfino

Ms. Greene

Ms. Wolff
Ms. Wolff

Ms. Greene
Ms. Dunne

Ms. Dunne
Hon. Robb

Ms. Greene

Ms. Dunne

None

Ms. Sanchez-Bass

Ms. Greene

Director Delfino

Ms. Sanchez-Bass

Ms. Dunne

None

Notices of Funding Opportunity
Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime
Mr. Givens listed staff designation recommendations for the Illinois Partnerships to
Reduce Violent Crime program. They included:

Name of Applicant
Rockford Metropolitan
Agency for Planning
City of Champaign
Totals:

Jurisdiction Served
City of Rockford
Cities of Champaign and
Urbana

FFY14
Amount

Required
Match

$155,894

$51,965

$127,028
$282,922

$42,343
$94,307

Mr. Givens said staff would likely recommend two more designations for this program at
the Budget Committee Meeting on September 16, 2016.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 5

 Medication-Assisted Treatment for Opioid Addiction
Mr. Givens said that at the January 19, 2016, meeting, the Budget Committee approved
use of federal fiscal year 2013-2015 Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act (RSAT)
local funding for a competitive funding initiative for the selection of a county jail or
detention center to implement a medication-assisted treatment program addressing opioid
addiction. At that time, it was anticipated that RSAT local funds could provide one case
management program for a two-year period. After the meeting, staff learned increased
funding is needed to implement the program. Requested were $557,786 in FFY13 JAG
local formula set-aside funds to augment available RSAT funds designated for the
program.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended Illinois Partnerships to Reduce
Violent Crime Program designations and the use of $557,786 in FFY13 JAG local
formula set-aside funds to support jail-based medication-assisted treatment for opioid
addiction programs through a competitive funding initiative. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded
the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, on the FFY16 National
Forensic Sciences Improvement Act (NFSIA) Plan Introduction. He said that the
Authority expects receipt of Illinois’ FFY16 NFSIA award in the amount of $313,276 by
September 30, 2016. He said staff requested permission to make designations in
anticipation of these funds in an effort to expedite their expenditure.
Mr. Givens said that NFSIA funds principally are used to purchase new lab equipment
and support required proficiency testing, lab accreditation, and conference travel. In
addition, the funds support staff overtime and contractual toxicology testing to help labs
meet testing demand. Staff proposed using FFY16 NFSIA funding to support ongoing
improvements at the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office and nine crime labs across
Illinois. The following designations were recommended:
Facility
Illinois State Police
Northeastern Illinois Regional Crime Lab
DuPage County Crime Lab
Office of the Cook County Medical Examiner
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority administration costs
Total:

NFSIA FFY16
$204,119
$29,160
$29,160
$29,160
$21,677
$313,276

Mr. Givens said staff asked for permission to make across-the-board reductions of the
recommended designations amounts in the event Illinois’ award is less than expected. Mr.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 6

 Givens said staff will update the Budget Committee on any designation changes related
to this item at the next Budget Committee meeting.
Motion: Judge Robb moved to approve the recommended FFY16 RSAT funding
designations. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote with an abstention by Mr. O’Grady.
Prison Rape Elimination Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, on the FFY15 Prison Rape
Elimination Act (PREA) Plan Introduction. He said that PREA was “enacted to address
the problem of sexual abuse of persons in the custody of U.S. correctional agencies.
PREA calls for federal, state, and local corrections systems to have a zero-tolerance
policy regarding prison rape (as defined by PREA) in prisons, jails, police lock-ups, and
other confinement facilities…” The Illinois Department of Corrections plans to open the
Joliet Treatment Center in 2017 and IDOC seeks to improve security and prevention at
the facility by increasing surveillance capabilities. Staff recommended designating the
entire FFY15 PREA award, $119,942, to IDOC to purchase security cameras and
peripheral equipment for its Inmate Sexual Assaults Prevention and Intervention
Program.
A discussion ensued regarding PREA facility assessment and compliance with federal
guidelines.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY16 PREA fund
designation. Judge Robb seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, regarding the FFY13-16
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act plans. He introduced recommended
designation reductions and new designations. The Authority expects receipt of the FFY16
RSAT award to Illinois in the amount of $334,121 by September 30, 2016. He said staff
requested permission to make designations in anticipation of these funds in an effort to
expedite their expenditure. After deducting $27,591 for administrative costs, $306,530 is
expected to be available for grant-making. He said the Budget Committee would be
updated on designation changes related to this item at the next Budget Committee
meeting.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 7

 Local-Use Funds
Mr. Givens said to maximize impact of available funds, staff is supplementing RSAT
local funds with $557,786 in FFY13 JAG local dollars to support at least two
comprehensive medication assisted treatment for opioid addiction programs. A
competitive process is under way to identify agencies for program implementation.
State-Use Funds
Mr. Givens said that RSAT funds may only be used for jail and corrections-based
assessment and treatment of incarcerated persons or for aftercare programs. RSAT
Program guidelines state treatment must be provided during the last three months of a jail
sentence or the last six months of a prison sentence. The programs recommended for
funding provide screening and assessment for juvenile males at Illinois Youth Center-St.
Charles and juvenile drug treatment at Illinois Youth Center-Harrisburg and IYC-St.
Charles. RSAT funding also was recommended to support ongoing implementation of the
dual-diagnosis treatment program for incarcerated women at the Logan Correctional
facility. All treatment and assessment services are evidence-based, provided through
vendor contracts that are competitively bid and meet all staff education and certification
standards. Staff recommended a total of $208,987 in FFY16 designations to support these
programs.
Motion: Judge Robb moved to approve the recommended FFY13-16 Residential
Substance Abuse Treatment Act plan adjustments. Mr. Delfino seconded the motion and
the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act
Mr. Givens called attention to a memo dated August 18, 2016, on the FFY16 Sex
Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA) Plan Introduction. He said that the
Authority expects receipt of the FFY16 SORNA award to Illinois in the amount of
$249,593 by September 30, 2016. He said staff requested permission to make
designations in anticipation of these funds in an effort to expedite their expenditure. Mr.
Givens said the Budget Committee would be updated on designation changes related to
this item at the next Budget Committee meeting.
Mr. Givens said staff recommended designating the SORNA funds to the Illinois State
Police to support its electronic filing system. Mr. Hoffman said the funds would support
ISP staff overtime incurred by digitization/scanning of paper records.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 8

 Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended FFY16 SORNA fund
designation. Ms. Sanchez-Bass seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote with abstentions from Mr. O’Grady and Ms. Wolff.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business
None.
New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Sanchez-Bass moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Wolff seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
11:13 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 18, 2016
Page 9

 