ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 19, 2015 at 1:30 p.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
1. Call to Order
The Strategic Opportunities Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority met on Monday, October 19, 2015, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large
Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois. Authority Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair
Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 1:30 p.m.
Other Authority members and designees present were:
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director Patrick Delfino
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Director Michael J. Pelletier
Lanetta Haynes Turner for President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Also in attendance were:
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Randy Kurtz, Authority Deputy Director
Megan Alderden, Authority Research and Analysis Unit Associate Director
Lisa Stephens, Authority General Counsel
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Administrative Assistant
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Ron Reichgelt, Authority Program Supervisor
Shai Hoffman, Authority Program Supervisor
Mary Ann Dyar, Authority Program Supervisor
Linda Taylor, Authority Criminal Justice Specialist
Elizabeth Pike of the National Criminal Justice Association (via teleconference)
Nicole Kramer of the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Other Authority staff members and guests.

 2. September 16, 2015 Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) Meeting Minutes
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to approve the Minutes of the September 16, 2015 Strategic
Opportunities Committee (SOC) meeting. Sheriff McCoy seconded the motion. SOC
Chair Wolff requested that the draft of the Authority’s Guiding Principles, included in the
meeting materials, be approved and incorporated into the Minutes of the September 16,
2015 SOC meeting. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

3. Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) National Picture
Elizabeth Pike, of the of the National Criminal Justice Association and participating via
teleconference, described the background and current status of the Edward Byrne Memorial
Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) as implemented throughout the United States. She said that JAG
began in 1968 and focused primarily on law enforcement and drug-related issues and that
remained the case until fairly recently when Laurie Robinson, serving as the Director of the
Office of Justice Programs (OJP), began to focus on using research to direct policy. In 2008, JAG
funding was cut from approximately $500 million to approximately $170 million, effectively
spurring a needs-based focus on how these funds should be spent. She said that in the past five or
six years, JAG spending has focused on two things:
1. Statewide community-based bottom-up strategic planning to guide JAG and other
programs’ funding.
2. Evidence-based practices and the replication of good practices with fidelity.
Ms. Pike said that many states have begun to use strategic planning to guide funding toward datadriven practices and away from legacy projects. This shift is not coming as a result of a
devaluation of multi-jurisdictional task forces, as that is a focal point of the criminal justice
reform community, but rather the process for deciding what to fund has been invigorated. She
said nationally that about half of all JAG funding supports law enforcement in one capacity or
another. Other popular uses of JAG funding have been to support specialty courts and alternatives
to incarceration. Another popular use for JAG has been re-entry and other programming as many
states are now working to reduce incarcerated populations and recidivism. Generally, JAG in
most states is anchored in law enforcement with the rest of the funds being used to test reform
ideas with the goal of transferring those programs to state and/or local funding sources if they
prove to be successful.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 19, 2015
Page 2

 4. Federal and State Funds
Authority Research and Analysis Director Megan Alderden delivered a PowerPoint presentation
entitled Federal and State Grants by Funding Category, Region, and Source for Fiscal Year
2015. The presentation examined:
• The Authority’s State Fiscal Year 2015 funding by Region.
• 2014 Index Crime Incidents and Drug Arrests by Region.
• A Comparison of 2014 Total Index Crime Incidents and Drug Arrests and FY 2015
Funding by Region.
• FY 2015 by Category and Funding Source.
Director Alderden said that further analysis of specific program funding by category would be
forthcoming at the next SOC meeting.
Executive Director Maki said that the goal here was not to simply understand what funds have
been spent where, but to also begin to develop a framework for the expenditure of future funds.
We must measure success carefully in this context, as sometimes reverse incentives can come
into play.
Director Alderden suggested that as strategic plans are developed and goals are developed for
individual programs, that the goals be used as a way for researchers to orient the outcome
measures.

5. Discussion: Creating an Outcome-Based Funding Plan to Guide the Authority’s JAG
Grant-Making
Executive Director Maki said that because JAG funding affects everything that the Authority
does, plans for JAG funding will in some ways serve as plans for all of the Authority’s funding.
Director Alderden delivered a PowerPoint presentation entitled Improving the Quality of Data
Reporting of Funded Programs that addressed performance measurement issues.
Executive Director Maki said that he wanted to establish March 1, 2016 as the deadline for the
delivery of the Authority’s JAG funding plan. The plan would establish both the quantity
outcomes and join them with qualitative goals while performing assessments of grantees and
programs.
Executive Director Maki said that Board members should identify qualitative goals for specific
programs and how those programs use JAG funds to complement the Authority’s other spending
and research.
SOC Chair Paula Wolff said that tasks to be completed and presented at the next SOC meeting
were:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 19, 2015
Page 3

 1. Refine the information contained in the charts in Federal and State Grants by Funding
Category, Region, and Source for Fiscal Year 2015 to provide further analysis of specific
program funding by category.
2. Draft a document that captures the essence of the discussion about creating an outcomebased funding plan to guide the Authority’s JAG grant-making.
3. Draft a preliminary list of JAG funding priorities.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Campanelli seconded the motion
and it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 3:28 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 19, 2015
Page 4

 