ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550 

 

ICJIA Institutional Review Board (IRB)
Meeting Minutes
Thursday, August 18, 2016 – 1:00 P.M.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606
I.

Call to Order/Roll Call

The IRB Chair, Dr. Rachel Johnston, called the meeting to order at 1:05 P.M. Simeon Kim,
Associate General Counsel for the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, called roll.
Member Name
Dr. Rachel Johnston, Chair
Director John Maki, ICJIA
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak

Present

Absent

By Telephone

X
X
X
X
X

X
X

Six members were present in person, and a quorum was established.
II.

Approval of Meeting Minutes – May 19, 2016.

Dr. Johnston asked for any comments regarding the meeting minutes of May 19, 2016. There
were no questions or comments. Dr. Cooper moved to approve the meeting minutes. Ms.
Laudermilk seconded the motion. Dr. Harrington abstained because he was not present at the
meeting. The motion passed by a majority voice vote.
III.

Full IRB Application Review

A. Capacity and Victim Needs Assessment of Illinois Victim Service Providers and
Criminal Justice Practitioners
Principal Investigator: Dr. Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik
Brief Background: The purpose of the present study is to identify the needs, gaps, and capacity
of victim service providers and criminal justice practitioners to meet the needs of victims of
Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 violent crime in Illinois. The proposed study consists of three parts: 1. A survey of victims
service providers; 2. Focus groups to dive deeper into the results revealed by the survey; 3.
Interviews with criminal justice practitioners to understand their perspectives on victims’ needs,
gaps and their capacity.
Discussion: Dr. Harrington suggested that Question 20 should be answered with “waiver of
consent documentation” instead of “no consent needed.” Dr. Houston-Kolnik agreed, and said
that she would make that modification. Dr. Harrington stated that for focus groups, he would like
to see a separate line affirming consent for the audio recordings. There would be a signature for
the informed consent, and also initials for consent for the audio recording. Ms. Reichert said that
they can add that to the template. Dr. Harrington stated that in some online survey systems there
is an asterisks on each item that makes it a mandated response. You can’t go onto the next page
until you answer that question. Ideally, the only place that should apply is on the “I agree” part;
all the other questions should be optional. Dr. Houston-Kolnik said that she will make sure that it
is that way.
Vote: Dr. Cooper moved to approve the application with the modifications that were discussed.
Dr. Harrington seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. Safe Passage Initiative
Principal Investigators: Dr. Lynne Mock and Jessica Reichert
Brief Background: Researchers will complete an evaluation of a police-assisted addiction and
recovery initiative called Safe Passage, operating in Lee, Whiteside, and Livingston Counties in
Illinois. The initiative is coordinated by the Dixon Police Department in collaboration with law
enforcement, state’s attorney’s office, and community organizations. The goal of the Initiative is
to significantly increase access to detox and substance abuse treatment for persons suffering
from opiate addictions and decrease fatal overdoses. Researchers will (1) analyze administrative
data of the initiative, (2) survey police department staff of the initiative, (3) survey former clients
of the Safe Passage initiative, (4) interview former Safe Passage clients, and (5) conduct focus
group with Safe Passage stakeholders including volunteers and representatives of community
agencies working in the Safe Passage partnership.
Discussion: Ms. Laudermilk stated that she had one question and one suggestion. The question
was regarding the gift cards to Walgreens. Dr. Mock stated that those who complete the
interview would get a $25 gift card, and those who partially complete the interview would get
something with a lesser value based on the number of questions that they answered, but it would
take time to get it to them. Dr. Harrington stated that that could constitute an element of coercion
to engage in the survey. It was decided that, since the interview will only take one hour,
everyone would get a gift card, in the same amount, just for showing up. Ms. Laudermilk
suggested reordering the questions.
Dr. Harrington stated that on the online survey, it should be a “waiver of consent documentation”
instead of “no consent needed.” With regards to the client interviews, Dr. Harrington stated that
the question of clients’ experience with police borders on the upper edge of minimal risk. The
client could admit to committing a crime that was never prosecuted. Ms. Reichert stated that they
would not do anything about it. Dr. Harrington stated that there should be a clause that gives
Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 clients an option not to answer a question that could get the person in trouble. Ms. Laudermilk
suggested using different language for “drug problem” such as drug usage, drug use, impact of
drug use, or something along those lines that does not provide a negative indication of behavior.
Dr. Harrington asked if there should be a statement regarding the limits of privacy and
confidentiality. He asked if someone states that they wanted to kill themselves, is that an
exception to the confidentiality that should be expressed in the informed consent. He stated that
there should be some type of statement that informs clients that are some limits to
confidentiality. Dr. Johnston stated that the motion should be contingent on creating a protocol
on reporting – what they need to do.
Vote: Dr. Long moved to approve the application. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
IV.

Renewal IRB Application Review
A. 2015 Study of Illinois Drug Task Forces
Principal Investigator: Jessica Reichert

This renewal was removed from the agenda because it was published that morning.
B. Study of Official Counts of Human Trafficking Cases in the U.S.
Principal Investigator: Jessica Reichert
Brief background: This study examines the variations of official counts of human trafficking
collected by criminal justice system agencies in the U.S. Researchers will explore the challenges
of criminal justice system identification and reporting of human trafficking through surveys and
interviews of state statistical analysis centers (SAC), Uniform Crime Report (UCR) managers,
and law enforcement officers. We will focus on two states for case studies—Illinois and
Tennessee—based on their higher level of UCR reporting of human trafficking offenses and
arrests in 2014.
All data collected. Online surveys received from 28 subjects. Phone interviews conducted with
six subjects. A journal article has not been published.
Discussion: Dr. Johnston asked if there were any questions or concerns. There was no
discussion.
Vote: Dr. Cooper moved to approve the renewal application. Ms. Laudermilk seconded the
motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
C. Survey of Illinois prisoners in substance abuse treatment on drug use and trauma
Principal Investigation: Jessica Reichert

Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 This study seeks to inform practitioners and policy makers on the issue of criminal offender
patterns of drug use (with intentional focus on synthetic and prescription drugs) and
trauma/PTSD in order to guide practice and policy and add to the knowledge and discussion of
synthetic drugs. The methodology is a survey of approximately 950 men housed at Sheridan
Correctional Center and Adult Transition Center (ATC) Crossroads. (WestCare is the treatment
provider at both facilities). Researchers will administer a paper survey to prison inmates.
All data collected. The sample size is 613 prisoners. A final report has not been published. Add
research staff, William Dustin Cantrell, Ph.D., from WestCare Foundation Illinois.
Discussion: Dr. Johnston asked if he is IRB certified. Ms. Reichert stated that he has Ph.D, he is
their researcher, he is legit.
Vote: Dr. Harrington moved to approve the renewal application. Dr. Cooper seconded the
motion. The motion was approved by unanimous voice vote.
D. Process Evaluation of the Don’t Shoot Initiative and Evaluation of the Don’t Shoot
Initiative Peoria
Principal Investigator: Dr. Megan Alderden
Brief background: Researchers will complete a process evaluation of a focused deterrence, group
violence intervention called Don’t Shoot which is operated by the Peoria Police Department in
collaboration with other law enforcement, municipal, and community organizations. The goal of
the Initiative is to significantly reduce the number of shootings and homicides in its city.
Researchers will (1) survey police department staff and other stakeholders of the initiative, (2)
interview a small, select group of key team leaders, (3) survey participants of the program who
attended “call-in,” a key part of the initiative, and (4) survey community members.
Dr. Mock is writing the implementation evaluations which she hopes will be ready by the next
IRB meeting.
Don’t Shoot Peoria is a focused deterrence, policing strategy with community-wide education
and outreach to reduce gun violence. Authority researchers will conduct a process and impact
evaluation using police department administrative data. Researchers will examine data on
participants before and after the intervention (a forum called a “call-in”), as well as on crime
trends.
All data has been collected and analyzed. The principal investigator is completing the final
report. The final report has been drafted, and it is under review. There may be additional data
analysis
Discussion: Dr. Alderden stated that she would discuss these two together. Dr. Johnston asked if
there were any questions or concerns. There was no discussion.
Vote: Dr. Cooper moved to approve the renewal applications. Ms. Long seconded the motion.
The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
V.

Old Business
Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 There was no old business.
VI.

New Business




VII.

Dr. Mock stated that she renewed the IRB registration and Federal-Wide Assurances.
Dr. Mock stated that we are 95% compliant with IRB Human Subjects Research Training
compliance.
Dr. Alderden stated that she wanted the IRB to review the application documentation to
ensure that the application materials are helping to properly document the information as
well as working on a more structured consent form; this includes protocols. Dr. Johnston
stated that there should be clarification on what is expedited, and what that means for the
protocol.
Adjourn

Ms. Laudermilk moved to adjourn. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.

Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 