 

 

CPP/ SFY18
July 27, 2017

 

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Chicago Project for Violence Prevention/CeaseFire

Funding Source:

CeaseFire / SFY2018 / $5,484,870

Program Description
CeaseFire, a partner of Cure Violence, is an evidence-informed public health approach to reduce violence. The
Chicago Project for Violence Prevention/CeaseFire (hereinafter referenced as CeaseFire) was first implemented
by the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) School of Public Health in West Garfield Park in 2000 which led
to a 67 percent reduction in shootings. CeaseFire reverses the spread of violence by using methods and
strategies associated with disease control: identification and detection of potentially violent events, individuals,
and groups; interrupting transmission of violence and risk reduction; and changing behaviors and social norms
of the communities where violence occurs. Data collection and ongoing evaluation (internal & external) help to
inform and enhance program impact.
Program Activities
CeaseFire’s work revolves around the efforts of hospital responders, violence interrupters, case managers and
outreach workers who are professionally-trained and streetwise individuals who are familiar with street violence
in the communities where CeaseFire and its Community Partners/Sub-contractors are active. Hospital
responders (at local trauma centers) and violence interrupters (on the streets) interact with individuals involved
in violence at critical moments to prevent retaliations and influence behavior change. Both roles coordinate
referrals to case management staff, case managers in the hospital setting, and outreach workers in the
community setting. Case managers and outreach workers help with on-the-spot problem solving and exploring
nonviolent means to address problems while simultaneously connecting participants with resources and
supports (employment, continued education, social service, healthcare or housing resources, etc.). In addition to
work focused on individuals, CeaseFire staff also conduct group level events, such as focus groups and peace
summits. Focus groups are small events that provide opportunities for participants from a range of communities
to have deeper conversations about issues connected with violence while peace summits are larger events in
which the planning stage is the main force for community-level behavior change.
For the purposes of this grant period, CeaseFire will directly implement the intervention in several high need
communities in addition to those listed in the sub-grantee chart below, including expansion of existing efforts
and new implementation sites. This funding will allow for continuation and expansion of the South Shore
community site and the hospital response program (both currently operational) as well as expansion of a
community site in West Englewood (funded but not yet operational.) CeaseFire will launch a new direct
implementation site in the Greater Grand Crossing community area. This project will also include partnership
with DePaul University to support implementation of phone app technology across six highest need Chicago
CeaseFire communities designed to improve conflict mediation outcomes and to enhance worker safety.
CeaseFire and its sub-contractor DePaul University will work closely with ICJIA to develop approved reporting
templates and will adhere to UIC and ICJIA policy and procedures.

 CPP/ SFY18
July 27, 2017 

Goals
Goal 1: Reduce the number of shootings and homicides in targeted areas by 10 percent, as compared to SFY17.
Goal 2: Change group and community norms associated with violent behavior.
Goal 3: Develop a professionalized staff to effectively implement the CeaseFire Model.
Goal 4: For conflict mediations using recommended "customized guidance" feature, a 10% increase in conflicts
resolved (i.e., conflict resolved; conflict resolved as long as certain features are met; conflict resolved
temporarily) as compared to Chicago CeaseFire conflicts entered into centralized database (over past three
years) identical by type and strategies implemented (as evidenced by conflict mediation outcome data stored in
centralized database).
Priorities
CeaseFire stops the spread of violence in communities by using the methods and strategies associated with
disease control, detecting and interrupting conflicts, identifying and treating the highest risk individuals, and
changing social norms to help young people avoid involvement in the criminal justice system.
Past Performance
Numbers below represent an analysis of CeaseFire interventions efforts and progress across SFY2014, the last
12-month performance period funded by ICJA.
Number of Mediations
Number of
successful mediations

734
283 (39%) successfully resolved, 233 (32%) resolved as long as conditions met,
115 (16%) temporarily resolved

Number of Participants

888

Number of case notes

23,936

Number Hours spent with
participants

21, 598 hours Average of 24 hours per participant

Budget Detail
Budget Item

Total
 $2,011,668 

Personnel: Salary and fringe for 47 direct service workers (including violence interrupters,
hospital responders, outreach workers, hospital case managers, field supervisors), partial
funding 18 support staff, including program management/implementation support staff,
evaluation/monitoring, and fiscal operations.

Revision Date:  8/6/15 

 CPP/ SFY18
July 27, 2017 

 $37,712 

Commodities: These include office supplies and programmatic supplies.

 $‐ 

Travel: Mileage Reimbursement
Contractual: To fund nine community-based organizations sites to implement CeaseFire
activities in targeted communities (see Sub-Grantee Designations below); background checks,
programmatic management services; implementation of phone app technology; rent and
utilities; telephone services

 $2,804,563 

 $630,927

Indirect Costs: UIC federally approved indirect rate, 26%.

 $5,484,870 

Total:

Sub-Grantee Designations:
Program Agency

Community

Designation

Alliance of Local Service Organizations

Hermosa/Humboldt

Sub-Grantee

Claretian Associates

South Chicago

Sub-Grantee

ENLACE

South Lawndale (Little Village)

Sub-Grantee

Grand Boulevard Prevention Services

Washington Park/Grand Boulevard

Sub-Grantee

TBD

Roseland/Washington Heights

Sub-Grantee

ONE

Rogers Park/Uptown

Sub-Grantee

TARGET Area Development Corporation

Auburn-Gresham/Chatham

Sub-Grantee

The Southwest Organizing Project

Chicago Lawn/West Lawn

Sub-Grantee

UCAN

North Lawndale

Sub-Grantee

TOTAL

 

Revision Date:  8/6/15 

Maximum Amount
$150,000 
$300,000 
$150,000 
$250,000 
$500,000 
$250,000 
$500,000 
$300,000 
$150,000 
$2,550,000 

 