ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Strategic Opportunities Committee Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

April 21, 2017

Re:

April 27th Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Information

This memo provides a brief overview of the Strategic Opportunities Committee meeting
on Thursday, April 27th from 1:00-3:00 p.m.
At the meeting, ICJIA’s Research & Analysis Unit will brief members on victim-centered
and victim-initiated restorative justice practices and facilitate a discussion about ICJIA’s
potential role in expanding that work in Illinois. While a variety of restorative justice
models exist, there are varying philosophies and practices about the role of victims in the
process. Victim-centered and -initiated practices are central to restorative programs that
facilitate victim healing and empowerment and are newly allowable under the Victim of
Crime Act. Following a presentation on these practices and models employed in other
states (most notably in Pennsylvania), we hope to be better informed about the potential
of these models for serving victims in Illinois.
Following that briefing and discussion, members will receive an update on the current
status of various federal funding initiatives.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
Thursday, April 27, 2017
1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois

AGENDA
I.
II.

Call To Order and Roll Call
Approval of the July 18, 2016; October 27, 2016; and February 27, 2017
Meeting Minutes

III.

Potential Future Funding Opportunity: Victim-Centered Restorative Justice

IV.

Funding Updates
a. VOCA
i. What money has been spent?
ii. What opportunities are in the pipeline?
iii. What lessons have been learned?
b. Other Federal Funds
i. JAG Comprehensive Law Enforcement Responses to Drugs
ii. Technical Assistance Opportunity for County Criminal Justice
Planning Partnerships
iii. Residential Substance Abuse Treatment and Aftercare Services

V.
VI.
VII.

Other Business
Public Comment
Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent state and
federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should
contact by telephone or letter John Klaer, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200, Chicago,
Illinois, 60606-5150, (312) 793-8946. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE MEETING
Monday, February 27, 2017, at 11 a.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Roll Call
Committee Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order and asked General Counsel
Angie Weis to call the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Paula Wolff (Chair)

X

Telephone

Gladyse Taylor for Director John Baldwin

Absent

X

Director Patrick Delfino

X

Steven Caluris for Superintendent Eddie T.
Johnson

X

Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan X
Sheriff Michael McCoy
James Chadd for Director Michael J. Pelletier

X
X

President Toni Preckwinkle
Other Authority Members Present

X
Present

Telephone

Public Defender Amy Campanelli

X

Elizabeth Robb, Authority Chair

X

Jim O’Grady for Leo Schmitz

X

Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X

Also in attendance were:
Maureen Brennan, Authority Criminal Justice Specialist
Caitlin DeLong, Authority Executive Assistant

Absent

 Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Kevin Givens, Authority Associate Director of Federal and State Grants Unit
Randy Kurtz, Authority Chief Financial Officer
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Angie Weis, Authority General Counsel
After the initial roll call, three of the five Board members needed for a quorum were
present. Chairman Wolff suggested moving to agenda items that did not require a
quorum.
Chairman’s Remarks
Chair Wolff welcomed the group and mentioned that a board’s contributions fall into
three categories: fiduciary, strategic, and generative/creative. She said while the other
responsibilities are often clear, it can be difficult to make time for the generative/creative
function, and it is the Strategic Opportunity’s Committee job to step back and think about
what big-picture intentions for the justice system in Illinois might look like. This meeting
will provide an opportunity for this work.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki thanked Chair Wolff for her insight and said his intention for the meeting
was to describe projects that are moving from planning to implementation. He asked for
the members’ feedback on the Authority’s progress and future.
Justice Assistance Grant Updates
Director Maki reported that the Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program had been moved
into a Grant Accountability and Transparency Act-compliant structure. Conflicts between
the state and federal calendars, staffing bandwidth, designing strategic funding groups,
and including research staff were cited as hurdles overcome during implementation.
Goals of delivering statewide benefit through JAG programs have been reached by
incorporating research and information sharing, Director Maki said, particularly with the
inception of the Department of Information and Technology. Competing with the private
sector in recruiting talent has proven difficult, though ICJIA has a history of innovation
in crime-mapping technology, he said.
Chair Wolff encouraged the group to define “statewide benefit,” and give their thoughts
on whether progress had been made toward the goal. Director Maki answered that it did
not have a static definition, but rather was an orientation that the Authority uses to

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 2

 interpret research on what the state needs at different points in time. Ms. Campanelli said
the benefit that ICJIA can provide is violence prevention by meeting client needs, such as
reentry programs. Ms. Vollen-Katz added that statewide benefit does not necessarily
mean every citizen profits from every program, but that funding decisions should be
made with intentionality toward learning how to solve a problem so that the knowledge
can be shared.
When Director Maki added that geographic diversity was also a piece of achieving
statewide benefit, Ms. Vollen-Katz said she appreciated the Authority hosting training
and events outside of Cook County.
Mr. Delfino stated that he is seeing progress in including all jurisdictions, but many
southern counties still have unmet basic needs. He said his office has plans to organize a
meeting with new prosecutors who may not know what resources are available to them
and Chair Wolff suggested including ICJIA in the event. Judge Robb suggested Authority
representation at bi-annual state’s attorneys' and public defenders' associations meetings
to discuss how to apply for grants.
Ms. Hora asked about conducting a needs assessment for JAG funding similar to what
was conducted for Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funds. Director Maki said JAG was
initially set up to address law enforcement equipment needs rather than programs and it
can be difficult to allocate funds to innovative programming or research.
Chair Wolff revisited Ms. Campanelli’s statement on violence prevention as the goal of
the justice system. Mr. Chadd responded that the goal should be achieving accurate
convictions, and Ms. Campanelli agreed. Ms. Vollen-Katz summarized both goals by
suggesting that the common objective is reduced justice system contact. Ms. Desai
reminded the group of the JAG priorities that had been agreed upon in 2016. Judge Robb
suggested that those goals should be discussed regularly in committee meetings.
Director Maki said that percentages of JAG funding will not be set aside for particular
program areas. Though available amounts are indicated in public Notices of Funding
Opportunities, they can be adjusted based on the volume and quality of responses,
especially during this first year.
Ms. Hora suggested the committee could receive a presentation of how the $4.2 million
in JAG funding is divided. Director Maki welcomed future discussions about whether
specific amounts or proportions should be set aside for innovative approaches. He added
that all policies will be taken to the Authority Board for approval.
Director Maki said the committee had moved JAG into a competitive funding structure,
informed by the Research & Analysis Unit’s work. ICJIA also has adopted a no-match

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 3

 policy, following guidance from the U.S. Department of Justice. Director Maki also
relayed the recommendation that the Authority follow the GATA structure in offering
three-year grant cycles.
Victims of Crime Act and Violence Against Women Act Updates
Director Maki laid out the anticipated Victims of Crime Act and Violence Against
Women Act funding calendar. He said the first notice of funding opportunity under the
new competitive structure was for comprehensive legal assistance and the next will be for
unmet needs for victims of child abuse, community violence, financial exploitation, and
impaired driving. Ms. Brennan said legal assistance funding has been offered by ICJIA in
the past, but not to this degree ($6 million). She said VOCA guidelines now allow for a
greater range of services to be covered. Director Maki added that the Authority will be
following federal recommendations in centralizing victim services, rather than funding
single legal experts at various locations.
Policy Updates
Director Maki reported that the Criminal Justice & Sentencing Reform Commission
report was released in January and the next Board meeting will include a panel of
Commission members. Chair Wolff asked what the mechanism would be for monitoring
progress on implementing the Commission’s recommendations. Director Maki answered
that it would likely be the combined responsibility of ICJIA, the Sentencing Policy
Advisory Council, and local criminal justice coordinating councils, and that he would be
seeking the input of the Board to assign state-level accountability.
Director Maki reported ICJIA also recently became responsible for coordinating the Sex
Offenses and Sex Offender Registration Task Force. He said the task force is charged
with developing a report on sex offender registration, recidivism, and risk-assessment,
and how Illinois aligns with national best practices in the treatment of people who
commit sexual crimes.
Future Meeting Dates
The 2017 SOC meeting schedule was proposed. The next meeting will be held at the end
of March. The committee then will convene every two months.
Public Comment
There was no public comment.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 4

 Adjourn
With no further business, Chair Wolff asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Hora motioned
to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Ms. Vollen-Katz. The meeting was adjourned at
12:42 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 5

 Victim-Centered Restorative Justice
Megan Alderden, Ph.D.
Associate Director – Research
Research and Analysis Unit

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   1

 Office for Victims of Crime:
Funding for Restorative Justice
Activities in support of opportunities for crime victims to meet with perpetrators, including, but
not limited to, tribal community-led meetings and peacekeeping activities, if such meetings are
requested or voluntarily agreed to by the victim (who may, at any point, withdraw) and have
reasonably anticipated beneficial or therapeutic value to crime victims. SAAs that plan to fund
this type of service should closely review the criteria for conducting these meetings, and are
encouraged to discuss proposals with OVC prior to awarding VOCA funds for this type of activity
(emphasis added). At a minimum, the following should be considered:
(1) The safety and security of the victim;
(2) The cost versus the benefit or therapeutic value to the victim;
(3) The procedures for ensuring that participation of the victim and offenders are voluntary
and that the nature of the meeting is clear;
(4) The provision of appropriate support and accompaniment for the victim;
(5) Appropriate debriefing opportunities for the victim after the meeting; and
(6) The credentials of the facilitators.
VOCA Victim Assistance Program Final Rule (81 FR 44528, August 8, 2016), 94.120(g) Restorative Justice

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   2

 Three Pillars of Restorative Justice1

Harms & Needs

Obligations
(to put it right)

Engagement
(of stakeholders)

1. Zehr, H. and Gohar, A. (n.d.) Little book of Restorative Justice. Available at: https://www.unicef.org/tdad/littlebookrjpakaf.pdf

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   3

 Victim Needs

2

Information
Tell their story
Empowerment
Restitution/Vindication
2. Zehr, H. and Gohar, A. (n.d.) Little book of Restorative Justice. Available at: https://www.unicef.org/tdad/littlebookrjpakaf.pdf

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   4

 Critique of Restorative Justice
• Victims feel. . .
Restorative justice in practice focuses on offender needs
Obligated to assist offenders, prevent future victimization
Restorative justice is an alternative to reduce penalties
Restorative justice is being used to achieve system goals
They are an afterthought, they are unprepared and their
needs unaddressed
– They have little or no input in the planning process
– Limited to cases in which the offender is identified, agrees to
participate, meets criteria established by cjs personnel3
–
–
–
–
–

3. Mika, H., Achilles, M., Halbert, E., Amstutz, L., & Zehr, H. (2004). Listening to victims: A critique of restorative justice policy and
practice in the United States. Federal Probation, 68(1), 32-38.

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   5

 Victim-Centered Restorative Justice
• Victim involvement at all stages: planning,
implementation, participation
• Restorative justice options follow victim direction
and initiation
• Direct dialog with offender is an option
• Fully inform victims of options and potential
outcomes
• Victim interests and needs first4
4. Mika, H., Achilles, M., Halbert, E., Amstutz, L., & Zehr, H. (2004). Listening to victims: A critique of restorative justice policy and
practice in the United States. Federal Probation, 68(1), 32-38.

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   6

 Victim-Centered Restorative Justice
• Encourage involvement of advocates and family
• Guarantee confidentiality, ability to choose to be
involved, change one’s mind, give voice, safe
environment
• Restorative justice include training and education of
practitioners, public and offenders about
victimization and trauma5
5. Mika, H., Achilles, M., Halbert, E., Amstutz, L., & Zehr, H. (2004). Listening to victims: A critique of restorative justice policy and
practice in the United States. Federal Probation, 68(1), 32-38.

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   7

 Victim-Centered Restorative
Justice in Practice
• Victim-offender dialog
Use volunteer facilitators
Victim initiated
Outside of the criminal justice process
Screening process to ensure appropriateness
6 month to year long process in which the facilitator works with both
the victim and offender
– Small dialog group – typically facilitator, offender, victim
– Used with a wide variety of crimes, often sexual assault, homicide,
agg. assault
–
–
–
–
–

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   8

 Victim-Centered Restorative
Justice in Practice
• Apology Letter “Bank”
– Following conviction or entry into programs, offenders are
told about the apology letter bank
– Individuals may submit an apology letter at any time
– Letter is held until victim requests
– Victim advocate works with the victim to prepare for
receiving the letter and follow-up services as needed

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   9

 Effectiveness of Victim-Centered
Restorative Justice
• Data effectiveness of restorative justice
– Some studies have produced mixed findings, although a
recent meta-analysis indicates positive overall findings
– Caution, however, is needed as these studies suffer from
self-selection bias and include limited offender
populations6
– Often evaluations use victim satisfaction surveys or
measures of offender outcomes (recidivism, restitution
completed), few examine other types of victim outcomes
6. Latimer, J. Dowden, C., & Muise, D. (2005). The effectiveness of restorative justice practices: A meta-analysis. The Prison
Journal, 85(2), 127-144.

4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   10

 Recommendation
 Clear guidelines and expectations for what
constitutes victim-centered restorative justice
 Ample oversight of funded programs to ensure they
are meeting OVC guidelines and final rule
 Need for evaluation using rigorous design
 Need for examining multiple types of outcomes
4/26/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   11

 