ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
December 13, 2017, at 1:00 p.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 1:09 p.m. General
Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Jim O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler

Present Telephone
X
X
X

Absent

X
X
X
X
Present Telephone

Absent
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

X

 12/13/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy
Peoria Police Chief Jerry Mitchell
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director Beverly Walker

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Associate General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Executive Director John Maki
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis
Other Authority staff members and guests.
1. Minutes of the November 16, 2017, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the minutes of the November 16, 2017, Budget
Committee Meeting. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion.
Ms. Wolff said that the second sentence of the fifth paragraph on Page 5 of the minutes
should read (corrections in italics):
“…with a recusal by Ms. Wolff due to her involvement with the University of Chicago
Hospital.”
Vote: The motion, including the correction, passed by unanimous voice vote.
2. Victims of Crime Act
Associate Director Givens referred to a memo dated December 13, 2017, regarding
FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Plan Adjustments. He
called attention to the charts on Pages 1, 2, and 3 of the memo describing FFY14 and
FFY15 funds recently returned to ICJIA. He also called attention to a supplemental
memo dated December 13, 2017, regarding an Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence (ICADV) designation reduction. He said ICADV had originally reported
$128,575 remained unspent at the end of the grant period of performance for its FFY15
VOCA designation of $4,691,328 for the Services to Victims of Domestic Violence
program. He said that staff had since learned that only $123,367 remained unspent at the

 12/13/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

end of the performance period, a difference of $5,208. The adjusted total amount of
returned VOCA FFY15 funds was $719,089.
Associate Director Givens then described recommended FFY16 designations resulting
from the VOCA Law Enforcement, Prosecution, and CASA Victim Assistance Program
Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO).
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said that the only notable rescission of funds
resulted from staff not being able to negotiate a contract with the Salvation Army. Most
of the other returned funds were a by-product of pre-existing grants ending early in
order to begin the new NOFO-based funding process. He said that the large amount of
funds returned by the ICADV was a result of the ICADV’s sub-grantees not spending
all of their grant funds.
Ms. Hora called attention to the following text in the second paragraph on Page 5 of the
memo: “All activities funded under this grant must fall outside of the normal scope of
law enforcement and prosecution activities. Grant funds may not be used to facilitate
participation by witness/victims in the criminal justice proceedings.” She said that these
activities are exactly what victim/witness staff in prosecutors’ offices do. She said that
the directive was confusing, as was the description of case management under Track
One / Item #2(c) at the bottom of Page 5 of the memo; “Advocacy that includes one or
more of the following… writing victim impact statements…” She said that victim impact
statements represent the most significant point of victims’ participation in the criminal
justice system. She said that victim impact statements facilitate the criminal justice
process and, thus, this directive renders the NOFO internally inconsistent. She also
noted that the NOFO summary did not address victims’ rights.
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said that the actual NOFO was in excess of 30
pages and provided much more detail than the summary provided in the memo. He said
that victims’ rights and specific allowable activities were addressed in the NOFO.
Ms. Hora stated that she had not reviewed the NOFO, but said that future NOFOs
should be internally consistent.
Ms. Hora noted that she works with more than 75 law enforcement agencies that would
have been interested in applying for these funds and that efforts should be made to
allocate funds statewide as opposed to concentrating funding in the major urban areas.
Executive Director Maki said that staff do their best to disseminate NOFOs as widely as
possible, but reminded Board members that they should also help in this effort,
particularly if they know of potentially interested applicants.
ICJIA Associate General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz said that great effort was put
into crafting the NOFO so that it properly conveyed what activities were and were not
allowable. Although the NOFO summary may not have accurately captured it, the
NOFO’s language was drafted to convey that funds could not be used for prosecutorial or

 12/13/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

investigative activities that go beyond victim services. Specific types of advocacy were
identified as intended or required within the scope of the NOFO.
Ms. Hora asked for clarification regarding budgetary line items presented in the Grant
Recommendation Reports. In particular, she asked for clarification of personnel costs
listed in the budget for the recommended grant to the Arlington Heights Police
Department; she wanted to know if the funds would support one or multiple staff
members.
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said that in the case of the Arlington Heights
Police Department, the funds would support a contract with a victim services agency and
multiple advocates would be supported.
Ms. Hora said personnel costs should be reasonable and that there should not be great
disparities between salaries for similar positions at different agencies. She said that it
would be helpful if future meeting materials specified details such as how many
individuals the dollar amounts in the personnel line items for recommended designations
would fund.
Associate Director Givens said that ICJIA staff at multiple levels review all funding
requests so that all recommended designations have been vetted by the time they are
presented to the Budget Committee.
Executive Director Maki said that all program costs presented in the designation
recommendations have been heavily vetted.
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis said that line-item scrutiny of budget details,
including salaries, is outside of the scope of the Budget Committee.
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt the Grant Accountability and Transparency Act
has requires staff to present designations for recommendation during the grant
development process, rather than at the end. The figures presented in the memo represent
the amounts requested in the applications and in many cases will be revised downward
before the completion of the grant agreements.
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis said that in the future, grant recommendations can
provide the number of full-time-equivalent staff that are intended to be supported by the
figure in the personnel budget line items.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16
VOCA plan adjustments. Ms. Dunne seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Ms. Kramer due to her involvement with the
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.

 12/13/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and
the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 1:47 p.m.

 