ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Strategic Opportunities Committee Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

August 21, 2017

Re:

August 29th Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Information

This memo provides a brief overview of the Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC)
meeting on Tuesday, August 29th from 1:00-3:00 p.m. For members who cannot attend
in person, please use the following conference-call number and password: 888-494-4032,
password 764-088-4751. If individual members are unable to attend or call-in to the
meeting, but wish to contribute to the discussion, please contact me by email or phone.
(john.maki@illinois.gov, 312-793-8550).
At the August meeting, we would like your opinion about how the SOC and the Budget
Committee can strengthen their capacity to oversee ICJIA’s policy and grant making and
inform the agency’s overall strategic planning process. This discussion was prompted by
the SOC’s June meeting on ICJIA’s violence prevention plan mandate. After the June
meeting, ICJIA’s staff followed up with stakeholders and board members. Through these
discussions, it became clear that rather than thinking about its violence prevention plan in
isolation, it would be beneficial for ICJIA to consider all of its planning activity together
to address the State’s most important criminal justice needs. While ICJIA’s funding
decisions are often constrained by state and federal mandates, the more ICJIA can help
stakeholders communicate how the state’s greatest criminal justice needs and priorities
are connected, the more the agency can use its funding and policy work to encourage and
drive comprehensive responses to crime and victimization.
Your advice about how we can support your decisions about integrating our priorities is
essential to ICJIA’s future work. To help inform this meeting’s discussion, ICJIA’s staff
will provide a brief overview of the agency’s strategic planning mandates and major
strategic planning efforts, with an emphasis on its most recent JAG plan and the Ad Hoc
Victim Service Report, which has guided the agency’s VOCA funding. ICJIA’s Research
Director, Dr. Megan Alderden, will then facilitate a discussion of the Strengths,
Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) of the SOC and the Budget Committee.
This SWOT discussion will provide members of both committee an opportunity to
examine what these committees are doing well and what continues to need improvement.
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

After the meeting, ICJIA staff will use a summary of the meeting’s discussion to
facilitate a broader conversation at the September Board meeting of how the Board can
oversee a strategic planning process that improves the agency’s policy work and grant
making.
We look forward to your participation and guidance. Thank you.
John Maki
Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
Tuesday, August 29, 2017
1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois

AGENDA
I.
II.

Call To Order and Roll Call
Approval of June 27, 2017 Meeting Minutes

III.

Review of ICJIA’s Planning Mandates, Past Strategic Planning Activities, and
Missions of SOC and Budget Committees

IV.

Discussion: Strength, Weakness, Opportunities, and Threats Analysis of the
SOC and Budget Committees

V.
VI.
VII.

Other Business
Public Comment
Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent state and
federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should
contact by telephone or letter John Klaer, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200, Chicago,
Illinois, 60606-5150, (312) 793-8946. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, June 27, 2017, at 1:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Roll Call
Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 1:06 p.m. and asked General Counsel Angie
Weis to call the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Telephone

Absent

Paula Wolff (Chair)

X

Director John Baldwin

X

Director Patrick Delfino

X

Chief Barbara West for Superintendent Eddie T.
Johnson

X

Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan X
Sheriff Michael McCoy
James Chadd for Director Michael J. Pelletier

X
X

President Toni Preckwinkle
Other Authority Members Present

X
Present

Public Defender Carla Barnes
Peter Kocerka for Public Defender Amy
Campanelli

X
X

Nicole Kramer for State’s Attorney Kim Foxx
Chief Jerry Mitchell

X
X

Judge Elizabeth Robb
Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz

Telephone

X
X

Absent

 Also in attendance were:
Junaid Afeef, Authority Targeted Violence Prevention Program Director
Malgorzata Bereziewicz, Authority VOCA Attorney
Maureen Brennan, Authority Grant Monitor
Caitlin DeLong, Authority Executive Assistant
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Mary Ann Dyar, Adult Redeploy Illinois Associate Director
Dawn English, Authority Human Resources
Kevin Givens, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Associate Director
Shai Hoffman, Authority Grant Manager
Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik, Authority Research Manager
Lindsay LaPointe, Adult Redeploy Illinois Program Manager
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Robin Murphy, Authority Deputy Counsel
Angie Weis, Authority General Counsel
After the initial roll call, only three of the five Committee members needed for a quorum
were present. Director Maki suggested moving to agenda items that did not require a
quorum.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki explained that ICJIA received a violence prevention mandate when the
Illinois Violence Prevention Authority (IVPA) was absorbed by the agency in 2012.
Along with IVPA programs, ICJIA inherited IVPA’s mandate to create a statewide
violence prevention plan. Since the programs are funded through state line items,
however, there is no funding to support creating statewide violence prevention plan.
Violence prevention programming is ineligible for funding under Victims of Crime Act
(VOCA), but Governor Rauner’s proposed budget included a $5 million appropriation for
community-based violence prevention. Director Maki expressed his desire for violence
prevention programming to benefit from the rigorous planning processes developed for
the Authority’s VOCA and Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) funding.
Violence Prevention Presentation
Reshma Desai, ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor, presented on the current state of
evidence-based violence prevention. According to Ms. Desai, since the 1980s, when the
Centers for Disease Control began research on homicide and suicide, violence has been
increasingly conceptualized as preventable. A 2001 report on youth violence by the
Surgeon General added to this body of research by consolidating information on risk and
protective factors, cost effectiveness, and patterns of offending. Ms. Desai explained that
risk factors refer to biological, individual, family, and community factors that increase
one’s risk of harmful behavior, and protective factors defend against the negative
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
June 27, 2017
Page 2

 outcomes. Therefore, while a child may exhibit a risk factor (such as low academic
achievement) that often predicts delinquency, a protective factor (such as a supportive
school environment) may intervene to balance the individual’s chances of success. Ms.
Desai presented the violence prevention plan drafted by IVPA, which was designed to
include all age groups and ecological levels (individual, family, community); promote
non-violence, respect, and tolerance; reduce risk and support protective factors; tackle
emerging issues; and embrace multi-disciplinary relationships between criminal justice,
public health, and community groups. Ms. Desai also explained the levels of prevention:
primary/universal (which educate the entire population), secondary/targeted (which focus
on at-risk groups), and tertiary/selected (which intervene with populations that are
already justice system-involved). The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration’s National Registry of Evidence-based Programs and Practices
(https://www.samhsa.gov/nrepp), Model Programs Guide at the Office of Juvenile Justice
and Delinquency Prevention (https://www.ojjdp.gov/mpg/), and Blueprints for Healthy
Youth Development (http://www.blueprintsprograms.com/) were presented by Ms. Desai
as robust resources for locating evidence-based programs that address violence.
Chiefs Mitchell and West described cooperative efforts in their jurisdictions to share
crime control practices. Chief Mitchell described a quarterly meeting that he attends with
the 10 largest police departments outside of Chicago, and Chief West added that the
Chicago Police Department provides a toolbox of prevention tactics to their districts.
They both noted that a statewide, multi-disciplinary database of ongoing and evidencebased interventions would be extremely useful. Ms. Houston-Kolnik reminded the group
that prevention work in the state has been severely impacted by the budget impasse,
especially as there is an inherent time delay in measurable results from primary and
secondary interventions. Mr. Afeef was called upon to describe his Targeted Violence
Prevention Program, which includes partnerships with the Department of Public Health
and the Department of Human Services.
Members discussed the need for representatives from education, public health, and social
services to join criminal justice system actors in these efforts. Ms. Hora suggested
forming a committee or task force and Director Maki added that violence prevention
recommendations for the legislature might be helpful. He noted that violence prevention
work through the Authority should focus on packaging programs in a way that fights siloing of funds and supports local planning without imposing agency perspective.
Approval of Minutes
Once quorum was achieved, committee members voted on meeting minutes from July
18, 2016; October 27, 2016; February 27, 2017; and March 27, 2017. Ms. Hora noted a
spelling error on the second page of the July 18 minutes: ”stop gap bull” should read
”stop gap bill.” Mr. Chadd moved to accept the four sets of minutes as corrected, and
Chief West seconded. They passed unanimously.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
June 27, 2017
Page 3

 Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Adjourn
With no further business, Ms. Hora asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Vollen-Katz
moved to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Ms. West. The meeting was adjourned at
2:39 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
June 27, 2017
Page 4

 