ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES

Roll Call

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
COORDINATING COUNCIL ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, October 18, 2018, at 1:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

ICJIA Board Chair Elizabeth Robb called the meeting to order at 1:06 p.m. Acting
General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz called the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Telephone

Paula Wolff (Chair)

Mary Ann Dyar (Adult Redeploy)
Shataun Hailey (VAWA MDT)
Marcus Hardy (IDOC)

X

Mary Ratliff (FVCC)

Hon. Elizabeth Robb

Present

Marty Malowitz for ISP Director Leo
Schmitz

X

Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa
Madigan

X

Peter Kocerka for Cook Co. Public
Defender Amy Campanelli

X
X

Luisa Salazar (Focused Deterrence)
Other Authority Members Present

X

X

Dr. David Olson (CJCC)
Hon. George Timberlake (Juvenile
Justice Councils)

Absent

X

Telephone
X

X
X
X

Absent

 Barbara West for CPD Superintendent
Eddie Johnson
Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X
X

Also in attendance were:
Lily Gleicher, ICJIA Research Analyst
Bryant Jackson-Green, ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor
John Maki, ICJIA Executive Director
Malgorzata Bereziewicz, ICJIA Acting General Counsel
Approval of Minutes

With no quorum present, approval of minutes was scheduled for the next meeting.
Member Updates

The meeting began with program updates. Mr. Jackson-Green gave an update on the
Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils. He reported that Loyola University drafted
crime trends and issues reports for Mason County and Madison County and
meetings were scheduled with county stakeholders to present the information. Mr.
Jackson-Green also discussed ICJIA’s CJCC website. He said content for the website
had been drafted and that the site was being developed.
Ms. Ratliff gave an update on Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council (IFVCC)
projects. She said IFVCC developed and provided training for police and other
criminal justice practitioners to improve knowledge about domestic violence and
support evidence-based approaches to prosecution and orders of protection. She
reported IFVCC was working with the Illinois Imagines state team to develop an
advocate guide for working with people with disabilities who have experienced
sexual violence. Additionally, she said IFVCC staff is working with the Envision
Illinois state team to develop trauma-informed assessments for domestic violence
agencies and disability providers. She reported materials focusing on strangulation
and stalking were under development for use in trainings.

Ms. Hailey provided an update on the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
multidisciplinary teams (MDT). She said the VAWA Notice of Funding Opportunity
for an additional year of VAWA MDT support was released and scored and program
funding would begin January 1, 2019.

Presentation on research article on Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 2

 Ms. Gleicher gave an overview of a Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils research
review, which included lessons learned for CJCCs and similar coordination-focused
groups. She said while research on CJCCs is limited, important insights for effective
criminal justice coordination include having a clear mission, vision, and goals;
having qualified staff to coordinate the council’s work; and developing a
commitment to promoting evidence-based practices, including revising/modifying
current policies, processes, and procedures. She said CJCC evaluation may have
multiple focuses, including examining collaboration within the CJCC, evaluating
implementation processes of new policies, programs, and/or practices, and
measuring the outcomes of a new program, practice, or policy, including how the
processes impact those outcomes.
Discussion on incorporating research in coordinating council programming

Following the presentation, CJCC members had a discussion on how research
insights on CJCCs can be incorporated in notices of funding opportunities and
approaches to evaluating CJCC programming. Ms. Vollen-Katz asked if there is an
ideal evaluation framework for coordinating councils. Dr. Gleicher responded that
even though randomized control trials are considered the gold standard in research,
they are likely very difficult, and may not be the best option, for CJCCs due to the
varying nature of potential problems between and within individual jurisdictions.
She added that jurisdictions that coordinate well often have centralized data
systems and research partners, which allows for more readily accessible
information needed and the assistance in utilizing that data to inform criminal
justice planning.
New Business

There was no new business.
Public Comment

There was no public comment.
Adjourn

Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Hora seconded the motion and
the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting adjourned at 1:52 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 3

 