ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 27, 2016, at 1 p.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) of the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority met on Monday, October 27, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200,
Large Conference Room, in Chicago, Illinois. Authority General Counsel Angie Weis
called the meeting to order at 1:05 p.m. Quorum was not attained.
Committee Member Attendance
Director John Baldwin
Director Patrick Delfino
David R. McNaughton for Interim Superintendent
Eddie Johnson
Wendy Cohen for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle
Rick Tanksley
Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

Present

Other Authority Members Present
Daynia Sanchez-Bass for Public Defender Amy
Campanelli
Elizabeth Robb, Authority Chair (substitute
committee chair)
Jennifer Vollen-Katz

Present

Telephone
X
X

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Telephone

X
X
X

Absent

 Also in attendance were:
Megan Alderden, Authority Research & Analysis Unit Associate Director
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Mary Ann Dyar, Authority Program Supervisor
Shai Hoffman, Authority Program Supervisor
Rebecca Janowitz, representing the Cook County Justice Advisory Council
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal & State Grants Unit Administrative Assistant
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Mary Ratliff, Authority Program Supervisor (via teleconference)
Ron Reichgelt, Authority Program Supervisor
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Angie Weis, Authority General Counsel
Other Authority staff members and guests
July 18, 2016, Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
The minutes of the July 18, 2016 Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting were not
presented or discussed and there was no action taken due to a lack of quorum.
Lead Entity Policy Core Components
Authority Executive Director John Maki called attention to a memo entitled Questions
and Considerations for Lead Entity Policy Discussion and he delivered a PowerPoint
presentation entitled Lead Entity Policy Discussion that addressed these Core
Components:
1. Criteria for Lead Entity selection
2. Oversight of Lead Entity’s Grantmaking
3. Authority monitoring of Lead Entity’s and sub-grantees
Executive Director Maki said that the Authority has never had a defined policy regarding
the practice of issuing grants to Lead Entities, to be later subgranted out by those Lead
Entities.
Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt explained the unique relationships that the
Authority has historically had with the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence and
the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault and the Coalitions’ roles as Lead Entities.
He said that these agencies have specialized standards and expertise in their respective
fields that qualifies them to engage in subgrants with partner agencies. ICJIA staff have,
therefore, been able to oversee the administration of the grants employing the expertise of
the lead entities.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 27, 2016
Page 2

 Executive Director Maki said that the Lead Entity arrangement can be very cost-effective
since hiring the number of staff necessary to manage these funds directly would be costprohibitive.
Core Component 1: Criteria to select Lead Entities
Primary policy question: What criteria should the Authority establish to determine
whether Lead Entities not designated by statute are necessary for, and capable of,
efficient and effective grant administration?
Executive Director Maki suggested that the first question to ask is whether or not a Lead
Entity is necessary in any given situation.
Mr. Reichgelt said that for federally funded programs potential Lead Entities submit their
policies to Authority staff for review and any agreements that the Authority enters into
with Lead Entities includes federal financial and program guidelines. There are no similar
guidelines governing state funds, although the Grant Accountability and Transparency
Act (GATA) is intended to address this.
Executive Director Maki said that sometimes Lead Entities are established by statute.
Primary policy question: What criteria should the Authority establish to determine
whether Lead Entities not designated by statute are necessary for, and capable of,
efficient and effective grant administration?
Authority Chair Elizabeth Robb said that auditors had concerns of the Authority’s
methods of the disbursal of funds via Lead Entities in the past. The audit called for Lead
Entity policy and procedure development. These policies and procedures will be applied
to all Lead Entities whether or not they are statutorily mandated.
Authority Research and Analysis Unit Director Megan Alderden said that the Authority
has recently revised its Budgeting for Results performance metrics and they will be
applied to state-appropriated funds.
Executive Director Maki said that periodic reviews of Lead Entities for effectiveness and
compliance should be built into the policies and procedures.
Core Component 2: Oversight of Lead Entity’s Grantmaking
Primary policy question: How should the Authority strengthen its oversight of Lead
Entities?

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 27, 2016
Page 3

 A discussion ensued regarding whether or not the use of Lead Entities creates too much
distance between their subgrantees that perform the programmatic work and the
Authority, thereby affecting its ability to provide effective oversight. Executive Director
Maki said that Lead Entities perform vital roles given that the Authority simply does not
have the resources to absorb their work. Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Reshma Desai said that the Authority collects a lot of data from subgrantees, so it is not
as if Authority staff has no idea what the programs are achieving. Authority Program
Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said that staff regularly meets with Lead Entities such as the
Coalitions and their subgrantees; the Authority is very visible to the subgrantees.
Authority Grant Specialist Maureen Brennan said that the policy under development
should emphasize that the use of Lead Entities would be the exception, not the rule. She
said that Lead Entities such as the Coalitions have a level of clinical expertise above and
beyond the capabilities of the Authority’s grant staff, permitting them to address
program-specific issues with their subgrantees. She said that the draft policy calls for
Lead Entities to have clinical and subject-matter expertise beyond the scope of grant
monitoring; they offer something exceptional and unique.
Jennifer Vollen-Katz said that it is important to ensure that Lead Agencies perform at
consistently acceptable levels from year to year. The Authority staff needs to be able to
evaluate their administrative and substantive performance even though they have the
clinical and subject-matter expertise.
Executive Director Maki said that Authority policy should require Lead Entities should
adopt the Authority’s strategic priorities to qualify for funding.
Core Component 3: How should the Authority monitor Lead Entities’ and SubGrantees’ activity?
Primary policy question: How should the Authority monitor Lead Entities and SubGrantees activity?
Executive Director Maki said that Authority policy should define how the Authority can
monitor Lead Entities’ subgrantee performance.
Strategic Planning Work
Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) Plan Updates
Authority Research and Analysis Unit Director Megan Alderden said staff has moved
toward an iterative research process regarding two JAG – funded areas:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 27, 2016
Page 4

 1. Violent crime and the implementation of informed/best practices overlaid with
Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) planning so that violent crime is addressed from a
system perspective as well as a victim perspective.
2. Substance abuse issues in the criminal justice system and the implementation of
informed/best practices.
Executive Director Maki said that a draft policy recommendations regarding JAG
matching funds requirements and program funding duration would be forthcoming.
Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) and Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Updates
Executive Director Maki described recent Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) and Violence
Against Women Act (VAWA) activity. He said that the Victim Services Ad Hoc
Committee (VSAHC) had recently met and that committee will work to help establish
spending priorities for VOCA and VAWA. Research to support the VSAHC’s plan is
under way.
Notice of Funding Opportunity / Request-for-Proposals Protocol
Executive Director Maki said that the Federal and State Grants Unit (FSGU) is working
to implement the Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA). FSGU is also
working to transition the Authority to a request-for-proposals (RFP) program funding
model.
Policy Updates
Committees and Task Forces
Executive Director Maki said that:
1. The Illinois Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform Commission will vote on
final recommendations in December.
2. The E-Discovery and Information Sharing Task Force has been working toward a
report that is due in January.
3. The Sex Offenses and Sex Offender Registration Task Force will ramp up activity
as the Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform Commission winds down. This
task force will examine the registry and ensure that it is aligned with best
practices and manage risk appropriately.
Data-Driven Health and Justice

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 27, 2016
Page 5

 Executive Director Maki said that the Data-Driven Health and Justice Initiative was
promoted by The White House and it is aimed at helping local jurisdictions use datadriven approaches to reduce reliance on incarceration and strengthen health systems for
people with substance abuse and mental disorders. He said that Authority Program
Supervisor Mary Ann Dyar had led these efforts and delivered a webinar entitled the
Sequential Intercept Model that analyzes when individuals enter the criminal justice
system. This initiative will be the subject of an event in Champaign in December.
Discretionary Funding Working Group
Executive Director Maki said that the Discretionary Funding Working Group helps local
agencies access federal and private funding. Preparations are under way for the next
federal grant cycle. Last year, the group raised about $3 million.
State Programs
Authority Program Supervisor Mary Ann Dyar said that Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI)
received stop-gap funding that allowed the Authority to pay back SFY16 program
expenses and fund the programs through SFY17. Some administrative funds will be made
available to support training and technical assistance for ARI grantees.
Other Business
None.
Public Comment
None.
Adjourn
Authority General Counsel Angie Weis adjourned the meeting at 2:43 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
October 27, 2016
Page 6

 