ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, June 3, 2016, at 9 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-502
Chicago, Illinois

Roll Call
Authority Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting
to order and asked General Counsel Angie Weis to call the roll.
Authority Board Member Attendance
State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Director John Baldwin
Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli (after roll call)
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino
Director Brent Fischer
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan,
Committee Chair
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle (after roll call)
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director George Sheldon
Rick Tanksley
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

Present
X
X
X
X

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 Ms. Weis stated that a quorum had been achieved. Chair Robb asked for the approval of
the meeting minutes of March 11, 2016. Ms. Hora moved to accept the minutes and Ms.
Wolff seconded the motion. There were a few corrections noted: On page 2, insert “has”
into the following sentence: Chair Robb reminded members that the Authority has two
committees. On page 3, insert “to” in the following sentence: Chief Fiscal Officer Randy
Kurtz said the Authority hopes to hire a victim needs assessment contractor in May or
June with a six-month timeline to complete the project.
The motion was adopted by unanimous vote.
Chairman’s Remarks
Chair Robb thanked everyone for their attendance at the meeting and especially
acknowledged Paula Wolff, Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair, and staff for their
work on the committee. She also thanked Board members that participated in the
committee’s work by seeking feedback from stakeholders and other interested parties.
ICJIA Audit Hoc Committee
Chair Robb directed the member’s attention to item IV on the agenda. She stated that the
recently released audit of several Authority grant programs should remind Board members
of their duties and responsibilities. As a result of this audit, the Authority has formed an
Audit Ad Hoc Committee, chaired by Amy Campanelli. Other members include Maureen
Josh, Mike McCoy, and Jennifer Vollen-Katz. This committee will review the audit to
ensure the audit findings are not repeated. Chair Robb thanked the members for their
leadership in making certain protocols and procedures are in place so that the audit
recommendations can be carried out.
Director Maki echoed Chair Robb’s remarks stating that he and Authority Executive Staff
are committed to presenting the Board with transparent funding recommendations backed
by research. He went on the say that the Board’s role is to protect the legitimacy of the
agency. Ms. Campanelli stated that she was honored to take on this task and feels that the
Committee and staff will be able to review the report and provide an update to the Board
soon. Ms. Hora stated that much of the report’s recommendations relate to staff and that
she wished she could have done something. She stated that she hopes this committee will
give guidance to Board members on this. Director Maki reminded the group that the
Strategic Opportunities Committee and the VOCA/VAWA planning process will inform
and strengthen the agency’s grant making in the future. He went on to state that one of his
big goals is to create an infrastructure which board members can use to make decisions.
The Audit report is available on-line and the staff will resend the link. Hearing no additional
questions regarding the audit, Chairman Robb asked Director Maki for this his report.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 2

 Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki began his remarks by thanking Board members for their engagement, which
has really improved over the last year. He also wanted to thank Illinois Department of
Children’s Services Director George Sheldon for attending the meeting. Director Sheldon
said he is looking forward to working with the Authority. Director Maki thanked him and
said he hopes the agency’s resources can be coordinated with those of the Illinois
Departments of Corrections and other agencies.
Director Maki next introduced the Authority’s new General Counsel and Chief of Staff
Angie Weis, who recently joined the agency.
Director Maki then provided an update since the last quarterly Board meeting. He said the
Authority hosted training on swift, certain, and fair probation practices for almost 90
practitioners. He noted the Authority also hosted a training on posttraumatic stress and
trauma in the criminal justice system that was very well attended.
Director Maki also updated the Board members on the VOCA and VAWA planning
process. He said the Authority was in the final stages of procuring a technical assistance
provider, will hire a victimologist to lead the research aspects of the effort, and was meeting
weekly internally to prepare for a huge increase in grant making. Director Maki stated that
the agency will go from a spend rate of about $15 million to approximately $70 million.
Given this, many Board members may be fielding questions regarding VOCA funding.
Director Maki asked Board members to direct those questions to him. Director Maki
concluded his report by stating that a big piece of the Authority’s work has been around
the implementation of the Grants Accountability & Transparency Act. Hearing no
questions, Director Maki asked Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz for the financial
report.
Authority Financial Report
Authority Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz outlined major fiscal matters for the
Authority members. He stated that through 10 months of the state fiscal year, the Authority
spent about $25.5 million, including $19 million under federal programs and the balance
for administrative costs. VOCA expenditures to date were at approximately $10 million;
VAWA spending was at approximately $2.2 million; JAG spending was about $5.5
million; and the balance of $1.5 million in spending was for other federal programs. He
referred to Director Maki’s comments earlier regarding VOCA funding. The Authority
received $78 million last federal fiscal year and will be receiving another $88 million this
federal fiscal year, he said. Each award has a three-year grant cycle. He said the Authority
completed a very transparent and comprehensive state procurement process to hire a

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 3

 technical assistance firm. Aeffect has been hired to provide this technical assistance, which
is a woman-owned firm. The firm won the project through a competitive process and had
the best price and presentation. Their victim needs assessment will be completed by
December 1, 2016. Finally, Mr. Kurtz reiterated that during calendar year 2017 the
Authority will reach a spending rate of about $70 million a year. Hearing no questions,
Chairman Robb thanked Mr. Kurtz for his report and moved on to the next agenda item.
Committee Reports
Chair Robb asked Ms. Hora for Budget Committee updates. Ms. Hora said the committee
last met on May 12. The Budget Committee approved new grants and several budget
reductions. The reductions totaled $140,000. Two new grants were made, including one to
the Authority for a drug strategy impact evaluation and one to Illinois Department of
Corrections for transitional services for females. Funding opportunities for information
sharing among criminal justice agencies and for Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime
were also approved. She noted that an award to the Illinois State Police made in 2013 was
rescinded and then designated to the Illinois Department of Human Services to enhance the
integration of systems used by ISP to collect, evaluate, and exchange criminal background
information. ISP and DHS will be working closely on this project.
With respect to the Violence Against Women Act funding, the committee approved
reductions and then approved funding designations to the Illinois Coalition Against
Domestic Violence and Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault. With respect to the
Victims of Crimes Act funding, the committee approved designations to currently funded
victim service programs. Most programs received designation amounts that reflect an
increase of 25 percent over the previous year.
Ms. Hora also informed the members of approved designations to the Illinois State Police
to augment its electronic filing system for the Sex Offender Registration and Notification
program. As for state funding, FY16 funding for Illinois Family Violence Coordinating
Councils and Safe from the Start was approved in case appropriations for the two programs
were made in the state’s stop gap budget. Chair Robb thanked Ms. Hora for her report and
asked for a Strategic Opportunities Committee Report from Ms. Wolff.
Ms. Wolff began her report by thanking Chair Robb for the kind words in her report. She
reiterated her thanks to the staff and committee members for their participation in the
committee’s important work.
Ms. Wolff referred members to a yellow piece of paper, entitled “Strategic Plan for the
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant FFY 16-19.” She said the committee
approved the draft report, which includes four sections: Strategic Plan, Principles,
Priorities, and the Process by which the Authority will achieve the strategic plan’s goals.
The Guiding Principles describe the values of the Authority’s work while the Grant Making

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 4

 Principles describe the operational procedures used to actualize the Guiding Principles. She
explained the principles came from a great deal of input and revision from members,
stakeholders, and other experts. The report also included the JAG Goals. Those, too, were
developed with much input and revision from the committee and stakeholders beginning
in November and ending with committee approval in March. Finally, the report included
the process by which the Authority will work toward the goals. This process, or Staff
Objectives, included staff activities and Committee Action Steps. Ms. Wolff highlighted a
few of the next steps in the plan. Research staff will be engaging Board members and other
criminal justice system stakeholders to identify needs of the criminal justice system.
The Committee also discussed the rigorous use of Request for Proposals (RFP) for JAG
funding and agreed to exempt the “Planning, Evaluation and Technology Improvement”
purpose area from the RFP process as the Research and Analysis Unit as well as the
Information Sharing project are functional areas of the Authority’s work.
Ms. Wolff asked that Director Maki’s memo dated May 25, 2016 be included in the notes,
as it explains the next steps well (Attachment A). State’s Attorney Kibler asked for a
timeline on when Authority staff will be conducting the focus groups. Mr. Maki said focus
groups will be completed over the next 8 to 12 months. Staff will begin with focus groups
that will include many Board members, he said. The results of these focus groups will
inform questions to survey a larger group of criminal justice agencies, associations, etc.
Chair Robb asked for a motion to put the JAG Strategic Plan on the next Board meeting
agenda. President Preckwinkle made the motion and Ms. Josh seconded it. The motion was
approved and adopted by unanimous vote.
Research & Practice Presentation and Panel Discussion
Director Maki introduced the Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils presentation and
panelists. He stated that the Illinois Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform Commission
has recommended coordinating councils partly because the Commission identified one
major problem with the Illinois criminal justice system—state agencies fund criminal
justice separately. This siloed funding approach prevents coordination. The Commission
report asked the Authority to establish councils across the state. Director Maki introduced
the panelists and referred members to their biographies in the meeting packet (see
Attachment B). Panelist David Olson, Ph.D., began his presentation by explaining that
councils should create learning systems within local jurisdictions so that all systems get a
better understanding of how agencies operate but also to see themselves as interconnected
and part of the local system (Attachment C).
Next, Director Maki asked Sentencing Policy Advisory Council Analyst Mark Powers to
present the Authority’s online data tools. Mr. Powers shared the tools and their utility

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 5

 with the Board members. It is available to any jurisdiction and can be found here:
http://www.icjia.state.il.us/sac/tools/DataProfiles/CriminalJusticeDataProfiles.cfm.

Director Maki then introduced the panelists. They included Judge Robb, founder of
McLean County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council; Donna Jo Maki, director of Lake
County’s Coordinating Council; Kathryn Bocanegra, violence prevention director at
Enlace and member of Governor’s Commission on Criminal Justice & Sentencing
Reform; and MaryAnn Dyar, program director of Adult Redeploy Illinois. (See
attachment C for biographies.)
Director Maki asked the panelists to explain their projects. Judge Robb explained the
origins for the McLean County’s Coordinating Council, which developed as a response to
the issue of jail overcrowding in McLean County. Two main advocacy groups pushed the
community to look at alternatives to building a new jail.
Ms. Maki also explained the 30-year origin of the Lake County Executive Justice
Council. Lake County’s work also began from the issue of jail overcrowding. Ms.
Bocanegra spoke to the need for community members and ex-offenders to be included in
councils planning and activities. She used the example of the health systems’ inclusion of
consumers in system planning. She argued that the principle of inclusion also applies to
the criminal justice system.
Ms. Dyar explained the Adult Redeploy Illinois model and ARI’s approach to local
communities. Program administrators identify natural leaders in the community and
present incarceration data to spark interest and discussion. As a multidisciplinary group
coalesces, principles and outcomes can be discussed and agreed upon.
A conversation ensued on the natural geographic boundaries for councils, essential
system players, high utilizers, and how information sharing is essential at council
meetings. Several Board members and panelists reiterated the importance of data sharing
to inform planning and suggested that assisting local communities understand available
data is one important way that the Authority can help.
Judge Robb reminded the group how important relationships are in developing effective
collaborations. Director Baldwin discussed the importance of using assessment tools to
assess risk and focusing post-release supports on one or two needs provided by one or
two providers.
Director Maki thanked the panel and presenters.
Public Comment

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 6

 Chair Robb then allowed Director Maki to facilitate the public comment. The first speaker
was Theresa DuBois from Family Rescue, a domestic violence agency on the South Side
of Chicago that provides services and advocacy for victims of domestic violence. She
spoke on the importance of VOCA funds to domestic violence agencies. She said the Office
of Victims of Crime priorities include salary parity, restoration of VOCA funds lost in
previous years, and expanding services. She said she and her colleagues believe this is an
appropriate use of the VOCA funds. Ms. DuBois went on to say that the domestic violence
community has also done extensive work to evaluate the efficacy of services provided to
victims. She cited several evaluations. She encouraged the Board members to keep victims
on the agenda as the VOCA plan proceeds. Director Maki thanked Ms. DuBois for her
comments.
The second speaker was Kathy Doherty, executive director of the Chicago Metropolitan
Battered Women’s Network, a member organization for domestic violence agencies in the
Chicagoland area. She cited an example of a 25-percent increase to a local domestic
violence agency’s VOCA grant. A 25-percent increase would total $12,000, which, she
said, doesn’t do much for expanding programming or salary parity. She said a 100-percent
increase would allow her program to hire another advocate who could provide 200 victims
with services at the domestic violence courthouse. She said legal services are the second
most requested service by people calling the Statewide Domestic Violence Helpline. In
conclusion she stated that she has gained much insight from attending Authority meetings
over the past few months. She stated that her agency and member organizations look
forward to the strategic planning process and look forward to being at the table to expand
services for domestic violence victims. She stated the network has been involved in the
Authority’s Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in the past and has a lot to contribute,
including research and exceptional collaborative projects with law enforcement. She
thanked the Board for their ongoing partnership.
The third speaker was Kathryn Bocanegra. She echoed the importance of victims’ voice in
the planning process but also stressed the necessity to include the voice of community
survivors of street violence. She stressed that victims’ voices are often equated with
punitive regimes, but many families from high stakes communities want rehabilitation and
restoration of their communities. She stated that she hoped this, too, would be considered
in the expansion of victim support.
Adjourn
Chair Robb asked if there were any other members of the public who wished to make a
comment. Seeing none, she asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Hora moved to
adjourn the meeting and the motion was seconded by Ms. Wolff. The meeting was
adjourned at 11:30 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 7

  

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016

Page 8

ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY

Attachment A

300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

To: Strategic Opportunities Committee Members
From: John Maki, Executive Director
Date: May 19, 2016
Subject: May 25, 2016, Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Information

This memo provides a brief overview of the Committee’s work ahead of the May 25, 2016,
Strategic Opportunities Committee meeting.
At the Committee meeting April 27, 2016, we discussed action steps to be completed as outlined
in the FFY16 Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Strategic Plan approved in March. At the
conclusion of the meeting, we asked staff to develop and present recommendations on how to
move forward on these action steps.
Please find below an outline of the action steps we approved and staff’s corresponding
recommendations. These recommendations will be discussed in more detail on May 25th.
1.

Action Step: “The Committee will explore whether it should establish percentages priorities
of for Byrne JAG funding that should be set aside for particular program areas.”
•

Staff recommendations:
o Over the next 8-12 months, the Authority’s Research & Analysis Unit will survey
stakeholders to determine needs and emerging issues for the Byrne JAG priorities.
Stakeholders will include practitioners in law enforcement, prosecution, defense,
courts, probation and parole, correctional facilities, and prevention and education.
 To inform the survey, research staff will first conduct small focus groups of
stakeholders representing both JAG priority areas and Illinois’ regional and
demographic diversity. The results will be used by staff and the committee to
refine priorities consistent with the Guiding Principles and JAG Goals.
 The research staff will create a survey based on information collected in the
focus groups and disseminate it to Illinois’ larger public safety community.
o Authority staff also will gather funding information from other Illinois state agencies
that addresses or could address the needs and emerging issues identified. This
information will help us to further refine Byrne JAG priorities.
o The survey results and funding assessment will be presented to help the Committee
determine priorities

 o Staff will recommend an impact and feasibility tool to help the Committee determine
priorities.
2. Action step: “The Committee will develop particular goals and objectives for the Authority’s
use of research-informed RFPs on all of its federal grants, informed by the 2014 Illinois
Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA).”
•

Staff recommendation:
o As the Research & Analysis Unit helps identify Illinois funding priorities for Byrne
JAG programs, the Authority’s Federal & State Grants Unit will develop a timeline to
roll out competitive requests for proposals based on the Committee’s
recommendations and the findings from Action Step #1.

3. Action step: “The Committee will create criteria for how the Authority will define and assess
Byrne JAG programs that deliver a statewide benefit” and be used to potentially exempt
funding requests from a competitive process, pending Budget Committee approval.
•

Staff recommendation:
o The Authority should define “statewide benefit” as that which supports ICJIA’s
mandated purposes: “[T]o coordinate the use of information in the criminal justice
system; to promulgate effective criminal justice information policy; to encourage the
improvement of criminal justice agency procedures and practices with respect to
information; to provide new information technologies; to permit the evaluation of
information practices and programs; to stimulate research and development of new
methods and uses of criminal justice information for the improvement of the criminal
justice system and the reduction of crime; to protect the integrity of criminal history
record information, while protecting the citizen's right to privacy[.]” (20 ILCS
3930/2)
 This criterion would enable the Authority to support its research and
information-sharing capacities without the necessity of a competitive RFP
process, pending Budget Committee approval.

As you can see, we plan to have an important discussion and we will greatly appreciate your
time. Please notify Reshma Desai of your attendance status, if you haven’t already done so. We
look forward to seeing you.

2

 Attachment B

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
REGULAR QUARTERLY BOARD MEETING
Presenter Biographies
Mary Ann Dyar
Mary Ann Dyar is the Program Director for the Adult Redeploy Illinois program created by the
Crime Reduction Act of 2009 (P.A. 96-0761). Just prior to her work at the state level, Mary Ann
was Program Manager with the Justice/Violence Initiative of Chicago Metropolis 2020, a
regional planning not-for-profit organization, working on policy issues related to childhood
exposure to trauma and violence, juvenile justice, prisoner reentry, criminal law and sentencing
reform. Mary Ann holds a Master’s degree in Public Policy from the University of Chicago’s
Harris School, and undergraduate degrees in Accounting and Political Science from Indiana
University-Bloomington. She served two years as a Peace Corps volunteer in Kenya, East Africa
(1991-1993).
Kathryn Bocanegra
Kathryn Bocanegra is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker and leads Enlace Chicago’s violence
prevention department. In her career in public safety she has managed community coalitions on
early prevention and programmatic initiatives that range from school-based efforts, street
intervention, to re-entry. Her efforts received recognition for outstanding community strategy in
violence prevention from LISC Chicago (Chicago Neighborhood Development Awards) and
MetLife Foundation (Community- Police partnership). Kathryn is a member of the Illinois
Sentencing Policy Advisory Committee. In addition, Kathryn is a doctoral student at the
University of Chicago in social work and her research interests encompass community violence
prevention, developmental life course criminology, and sentencing policy.
Donna Jo Maki
Donna Jo Maki (no relation to John Maki) has been the coordinator for the Executive Justice
Council of Lake County (EJC) since October 2014. As the dedicated staff for the EJC, she is
supervised and funded by the Lake County Administrator. Prior to her coordinator position she
served as an Illinois Assistant Attorney General prosecuting persons under the Illinois Sexually
Violent Persons Commitment Act for nine years. She also served as an Assistant State’s
Attorney in McHenry County (1995-2005) and Assistant Public Defender in Lake County (19911995) on misdemeanor, juvenile and felony cases. In addition, she has served as interim Director
of the Child Advocacy Center of McHenry County (2001) and has authored numerous successful
local, state, and federal justice grants for McHenry and Lake County.

Dave Olson
David Olson is as a Professor in the Criminal Justice and Criminology Department at Loyola
University Chicago, where he is also the Graduate Program Director, and previously served as
Department Chairperson and Director of Loyola’s interdisciplinary Forensic Science Program.
For nearly 20 years, Dr. Olson worked at the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority,
where he was a Senior Scientist responsible for overseeing the evaluation of federally funded

 Attachment B

drug and violent crime control efforts in the State of Illinois. During his 29 years in the field of
criminal justice, David has worked with a variety of federal, state and local agencies to develop,
implement and evaluate programs and policies, particularly in the area of community and
institutional corrections.
Dr. Olson has published more than 100 articles, research bulletins and research reports, and has
made more than 100 presentations at professional conferences, hearings, and training symposia.
Dr. Olson received his B.S. in Criminal Justice from Loyola University Chicago, his M.A. in
Criminal Justice from the University of Illinois at Chicago, and his Ph.D. in Political
Science/Public Policy Analysis from the University of Illinois at Chicago, where he was the
recipient of the Assistant United States Attorney General’s Graduate Research Fellowship. In
2011, Dr. Olson received the Hans W. Mattick Award for outstanding accomplishments in the
field of criminology and criminal justice research from the Illinois Academy of Criminology.

Mark Powers
Mark Powers is a research analyst at the Illinois Sentencing Policy Advisory Council and
previously worked for the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA). His interests
include population projections, corrections, recidivism, applied statistics, and record linkage, and
has worked with Illinois criminal justice data for over ten years. His work that improved access
to data on the ICJIA website garnered two national awards since 2011. He received an M.A. in
Criminology from the University of South Florida and B.A.’s in Sociology and Anthropology
from the University of Illinois.
Elizabeth Robb
Former Chief Circuit Judge (11th Circuit) Elizabeth Robb was named chairman of the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority in March 2015. Ms. Robb brings more than 30 years of
legal experience to ICJIA. She served as a trial judge for 22 years on the 11th Judicial Circuit
Court of Illinois, and was the chief judge from 2004 to 2014. In that role, in addition to presiding
over trials, she had administrative responsibility for the 20 judges in the court, oversaw court
reporters, probation officers, and other court staff. Prior to becoming a judge, Ms. Robb was an
attorney at Reynard & Robb Law Offices (1982-1987) and the Robb Law Office (1987-1993).
Ms. Robb earned her bachelor’s degree from Illinois Wesleyan University and her law degree
from Loyola University of Chicago.

 Attachment C

Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils:
The Necessity, Potential and Challenges
Presented by
David E. Olson, Ph.D.
Department of Criminal Justice & Criminology and
the Center for Criminal Justice Research, Policy &
Practice
Presented to the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority, Chicago Illinois, June 3, 2016

 Program/Policy/Strategy Development &
Evolution
Identification of
What Works,
EvidenceBased Practice

2) Strategy
Development/
Strategic Planning

Logic
Model

Agency
1) Problem
Identification/Assessment,
Gap Analysis, Performance

Impact
Evaluation
Outcome
Measures

Unit
Individual
4) Program
Operation

3) Strategy
Implementation
Process
Evaluation
Performance
Measures

 Performance Measurement & Policing
• SARA
– Scanning, Analysis, Response, Assessment

• Comp-Stat
– Combined the bureaucratic model of police
management with the community-problem solving
policing approach, and real-time data analysis
capacity

 State of Illinois

50,000 ft view

Region of Illinois
Judicial Circuit

5,000 ft view

County
Agencies/Organizations in
County

Results get
“added up” to
determine the Unit/Division within Agencies
effectiveness
of system, county, Individuals within Agencies
department, &
individuals

500 ft view

1 ft view

 “Good” Policy, Management and Practice
Includes Research and Evaluation
• Research is used on an ongoing basis by agencies,
government and businesses to identify “performance
gaps” as part of an effective management process;
• The formulation of solutions/responses to identified
performance gaps relies on research and policy analysis
as a guide;
• Implemented solutions/responses are
monitored/evaluated to gauge implementation & impact
as part of an effective management process—individual,
unit, agency, system.
• However, this is rarely done ……...why?

 The Criminal Justice “System”
• Individual components (units of government, agencies,
organizations, communities) that collectively seek to
prevent and reduce crime.
– County-level makes the most sense in most places (but
not limited to county agencies)

• Not necessarily coordinated, no overarching goal or
strategy, limited systematic examination or evaluation,
and limited synthesis of information about the system’s
operations.
• No statutory “leader” or “czar” of the justice system,
but opportunities exist for leaders to emerge.
– Multidiscplinary councils (ad hoc or on-going)

 The Need for, and Benefits of, Coordinated
Strategic Plans (or at least communication)
• Need to understand how “system” operates and
how individual organizations are impacted by, and
impact, other organizations (silos;
communication).
• Need for objective information to be available to
support (or question) policy, go beyond rhetoric
towards research, and to create “learning
environments” (figuring out the “why”)
• Need to respond effectively and in an informed
way to funding opportunities, media inquiries,
crises

 What role could (should) ICJIA play?
• The origins and evolution of the “county profiles”
– State strategy and geographic allocation of resources
required extensive data collection and analyses.
– A lot of data gets collected/reported “up” but very little
gets communicated back down
– First iteration: 5,000 foot view, economy of scale, lots
of data/perspective, lots led to the water, but was there
drinking and were the dots connected?
– Ok, so now what ………….

• What now?
– Even greater amount of data available, increased
technological capacities, increased “interest”

 Opportunities and Challenges
• Challenges
– Forming, maintaining, and making the process routine
within changing political environments
– Analytic capacity to examine data at a more
detailed/localized level
– Ensuring objectivity, developing trust in the process

• Benefits
– Individual agencies/organizations having a better
understanding of how the system as a whole operates
– Having information available to answer policyrelevant questions (good or bad policy)
– Increased coordination (or at least communication)

 