ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
June 19, 2015
9:00 a.m.
300 West Adams
Main Building Conference Room – 2nd Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Budget Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority met on
Friday, June 19, 2015, at 300 West Adams, Main Building Conference Room - 2nd Floor,
Chicago, Illinois. Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb called the meeting to order at
9:02 a.m. Authority Deputy General Counsel Junaid Afeef called the roll. Other
Authority members and designees present were Jennifer Greene for State’s Attorney
Anita Alvarez, Patricia McCreary for Clerk Dorothy Brown, Amy Campanelli, Kathryn
Dunne for Sheriff Tom Dart, Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Madigan, James Hickey
for Superintendent Garry McCarthy, James Chadd for Director Michael J. Pelletier,
Rebecca Janowitz for President Toni Preckwinkle, Director Leo Schmitz, Vicki Wilson
for Director Nirav Shah, and Rick Krause for Acting Director Gladyse Taylor. Also in
attendance were Authority Executive Director John Maki, Authority Deputy General
Counsel Junaid Afeef, Authority Deputy Director Randy Kurtz, Authority Program
Supervisor Ron Reichgelt, Authority Program Supervisor Greg Stevens, Authority
Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman, Authority Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow,
and other Authority staff members and guests.

 1. Minutes of the January 30, 2015 Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Greene called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January 30, 2015
Budget Committee meeting. Ms. McCreary seconded the motion and it was approved by
unanimous voice vote.

2. Discussion of the Budget Committee Process
Authority Board members, Budget Committee designees, and Authority staff seated at
the table briefly introduced themselves.
Executive Director Maki said that he had previously served as an Authority Board
member. He said that he felt that the Budget Committee had become broken and that he
wanted to steer it in a new direction so as to provide more oversight at the policy level.
He said that he wanted policy to become more research driven. He said that a new
Strategic Opportunities Committee had been created to address some of the overlap in
programming and disconnects in policy among state agencies. He said that one of
Governor Bruce Rauner’s goals is to reduce the prison population in Illinois.
Ms. Hora said that in the past, many Budget Committee members came to meetings
under-prepared. She said that there is potential for more opportunities for new and
innovative pilot projects and that the Budget Committee should not be reduced to only
approving lists of continuation grants.
Executive Director Maki said that he wanted the Authority to become more active in
seeding innovation.
Ms. Greene said that a past problem had been that the Authority manages different
funding streams, not all of which are discussed at every Budget Committee meeting, and
there has been a rotating cast of participants at Budget Committee meetings, resulting in
meeting participants not being familiar with programs and issues. Budget Committee
members were also given little lead time to review meeting materials.
Authority staff member Jude Lemrow said that over time the Budget Committee had
asked for more and more information on designation recommendations, resulting in timeconsuming work for staff and lengthy documents for Board members to review. The
Budget Committee began to examine budget and program details of individual grants. He

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
June 19, 2015
Page 2

 said that it appears that the committee’s new direction will have the Budget Committee
making more over-arching policy decisions about funding under the assumption that
details regarding grant and program viability will have been vetted by staff before
designation requests are made.
Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said that in the case of the victim services programs,
the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee (VSAHC), consisting of various victim services
stakeholders, meets every three years to develop spending and programming priorities,
which Authority staff then implements. At the last VSAHC meeting, the decision was
made to continue current funding for current programs for 2014 through 2016. There will
be changes coming to this process in response to the new Grant Accountability and
Transparency Act (GATA) law requires that grants be awarded via a competitive process.
Ms. Hora said that it is important for the Budget Committee to know how grantees are
doing financially; audits and other financial information should be reviewed. It is a bad
idea to designate funds to unstable grantees.
Executive Director Maki said that the Budget Committee would not serve simply to
“rubber stamp” designation recommendations. He said that the Authority is developing a
new granting process that would address concerns sooner and shorten the time between
grant designation and execution. He said that federal and state fund work in different
ways and that new processes will require strategic thinking.
Ms. Greene said that an orientation meeting would be helpful.

3. Victims of Crime Act (VOCA)
Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt, referring to the memo in the materials dated June 19,
2015 and regarding the FFY13 and FFY14 VOCA Plan Adjustments and the FFY15
VOCA Plan Introduction, said that the chart on Page 1 of the memo described FFY13 and
FFY14 VOCA funds recently returned to the Authority.
Mr. Reichgelt described FFY13, FFY14, and FFY15 designation recommendations as
presented in the memo. He called attention to a hard copy of Page 2 of the memo that had
been distributed to the Budget Committee members at their places identifying corrections
made to the chart beginning on Page 2 of the memo and describing recommended
designation amounts to Child Advocacy Center Services programs. The corrected table is
as follows, with corrections in italics:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
June 19, 2015
Page 3

 DESIGNEE
All Our Children's Advocacy Center
Amy Schultz Child Advocacy Center
Champaign County Child Advocacy Center
Chicago Children's Advocacy Center
Child Advocacy Center of East Central Illinois
Child Network
Children's Advocacy Center of Northwest Cook County
Children's Advocacy Center of Northwest Cook County
Children's Advocacy Renewal & Enlightenment
(Williamson Co. CAC)
Court Appointed Special Advocates of Adams County
DuPage County Children's Center
Kane County Child Advocacy Center
Lake County Child Advocacy Center
LaRabida Children's Hospital
LaRabida Children's Hospital
McHenry County Child Advocacy Center
McLean County Child Advocacy Center
Procare Centers / Proviso Child Advocacy Center
Sangamon County Child Advocacy Center
Shining Star Child Advocacy Center
St. Clair County Child Advocacy Center
Tazewell County
The Guardian Center, Inc.
Will County Child Advocacy Center
Will County Child Advocacy Center
Winnebago County Children's Advocacy Center
TOTAL – Child Advocacy Center Services

FFY13

FFY14

FFY15
$75,342

$32,239
$50,338
$151,384
$38,367
$30,880
$34,314
$57,893
$81,741
$25,337
$58,347
$22,254
$89,981
$47,826
$39,217
$32,756
$119,426
$24,478
$84,603
$62,159
$34,472
$45,766
$25,661
$25,877
$38,944
$83,684
$172,389

$243,756

$997,141

Mr. Reichgelt described the recommended designations throughout the memo.
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to approve the VOCA FFY13 and FFY14 Plan Adjustment
and the FFY15 Plan Introduction. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and it passed by
unanimous voice vote, with an abstention by Mr. Krause with regard to the recommended
designation to the Illinois Department of Corrections.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
June 19, 2015
Page 4

 4. Discussion of State Funded Programs
Executive Director Maki said that state grant funds are given to the Authority by the
Illinois General Assembly and are not subject to a request-for-proposals or other
competitive process. He said that since the Illinois SFY16 Budget had not yet been
approved, staff was unable to present pending state-funded grant designation requests. He
said that this situation would force the Budget Committee to meet on short notice when
the SFY16 Budget is approved so as to expedite the designation approval process for
affected state-funded grant programs.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and
it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 9:51 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
June 19, 2015
Page 5

 