ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 12, 2016
9:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Budget Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority met on
Thursday, May 12, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room, in
Chicago, Illinois. Authority Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora (representing
Attorney General Lisa Madigan) called the meeting to order at 9:03 a.m. Authority
General Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Authority members and designees present were:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Jennifer Greene for Budget Comm. Vice Chair /
Cook Co. State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Illinois State Police Director Leo Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Members Present
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John
R. Baldwin
State’s Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor’s Office
Director Patrick Delfino
Authority Chair Judge Elizabeth Robb

Present

Telephone

Absent

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Present

X
X
X

 Also in attendance were:
Mary Ann Dyar, Authority Program Director
Kevin Givens, Authority Associate Director, Federal and State Grants Unit
Shai Hoffman, Authority Program Supervisor
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Mary Ratliff, Authority Program Supervisor
Ron Reichgelt, Authority Program Supervisor
Megan Rose representing the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Other Authority staff members and guests.
Minutes of the January 19, 2016, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes of the January 19, 2016, Budget
Committee Meeting. Judge Robb seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
Adult Redeploy Illinois Presentation
Authority Program Director Mary Ann Dyar delivered a presentation for information
purposes describing the impact of the budget impasse on ARI programs. She distributed
and discussed handouts describing ARI’s goals, significant achievements, SFY16 budget
concerns, and local commitment and sustainability.
Justice Assistance Grants
Authority Associate Director Kevin Givens called attention to a memo dated May 12,
2016, regarding the FFY10-FFY14 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) plan adjustments and
an introduction to the FFY15 plan. He described FFY10, FFY11, and FFY12 funds
recently returned to the Authority and recommended designations. He also introduced the
FFY15 JAG funding plan.
Authority Executive Director John Maki said that the recommendation to provide $1
million to support Information Sharing Environment (ISE) Coordination Investment
Partnerships is intended to standardize data systems, making data collection and use more
efficient. Executive Director Maki called attention to two letters of support for the ISE
project, including one from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence –
Information Sharing Environment that identified Illinois as a state employing best
practices in its creation of a state ISE and invited Illinois to participate in a national ISE
initiative, and another from Illinois Public Safety Director Rodger A. Heaton and Illinois

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 12, 2016
Page 2

 Department of Innovation and Technology Director Hardik Bhatt identifying ISE
implementation as a recommendation of the Illinois Commission on Criminal Justice and
Sentencing Reform and complementary to the overall Illinois information system
envisioned by Governor Bruce Rauner.
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the recommended JAG FFY10-FFY14 plan
adjustments and the FFY15 plan introduction. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the
motion passed by unanimous voice vote. Director Baldwin abstained from voting on the
recommended designation to the Illinois Department of Corrections.
National Instant Criminal Background Check System Act Reporting Improvement
Program
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo dated May 12, 2016, regarding
the FFY13 National Instant Criminal Background Check System Act Reporting
Improvement Program (NARIP) plan adjustment. He said that since the original
designation of $1.5 million was made to the Illinois State Police (ISP) in 2013, the
program’s focus shifted. He said staff recommended rescinding the unspent $1.5 million
NARIP designation to ISP and re-designating $1,403,100 to the Illinois Department of
Human Services (IDHS) to enhance its data collecting partnership with ISP.
Motion: Judge Robb moved to approve the recommended NARIP FFY13 plan
adjustment. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote. Director Schmitz abstained from voting on the recommended designation to ISDHS
Safe from the Start
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo dated May 12, 2016, regarding
the SFY16 Safe from the Start (SFS) plan. He said that while the Authority does not have
active SFS grants at this time, grant activities are continuing, and staff continues to report
the numbers of those served by the program to the Governor’s Office. The purpose of
making the designations without an appropriation was to ensure that when an
appropriation became available, staff could forward grant agreements to the agencies in a
timely manner.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended SFY16 SFS designations. Ms.
Greene seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Violence Against Women Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo dated May 12, 2016, regarding
the FFY09, FFY12, FFY13 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) plan adjustments

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 12, 2016
Page 3

 and the FFY15 VAWA plan introduction. He described FFY09, FFY12, and FFY13
funds recently returned to the Authority and recommended designations. He also
introduced the FFY15 VAWA funding plan.
Motion: Ms. Paziotopoulos moved to approve the FFY09, FFY12, FFY13 VAWA plan
adjustments and the FFY15 VAWA plan introduction. Ms. Greene seconded the motion
and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Victims of Crime Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo dated May 12, 2016, regarding
the FFY10, FFY13, FFY14, and FFY15 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) plan adjustments.
He described FFY13 and FFY14 funds recently returned to the Authority and
recommended designations.
Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt, in response to a question by Ms.
Campanelli, said that the reason some VOCA grantees did not receive a 25-percent
increase was that staff were instructed to identify programs that were not in good
standing and make the appropriate funding recommendations. In any case, these
designations will be the last for all programs under the current VOCA plan.
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the recommended FFY10, FFY13, FFY14, and
FFY15 VOCA plan adjustments. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed
by unanimous voice vote. Ms. Greene abstained from voting on the designation to the
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.
Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Councils
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo dated May 12, 2016, regarding
the SFY16 Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Councils (IFVCC) plan adjustments.
He described the recommended designations.
Motion: Authority Chair Robb moved to approve the SFY16 IFVCC designations. Ms.
Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo dated May 12, 2016, regarding
the FFY15 Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA) plan introduction.
He described the recommended designation.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 12, 2016
Page 4

 Motion: Authority Chair Robb moved to approve the SORNA FFY15 plan introduction.
Ms. Paziotopoulos seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote,
with an abstention by Director Schmitz.
Public Comment
Megan Rose, representing the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network
(CMBWN), said that representatives of CMBWN and other domestic violence and sexual
assault victim service agencies were present at the March 11, 2016, Quarterly Authority
Meeting to advocate for a continuation Victims of Crime Act designation increase in
excess of 25 percent. She said the request was being made due to the urgencies created by
the state’s current budget situation. She said that outcome data for such programs
supports the case of an increase greater than 25 percent.
A general discussion ensued regarding the issue of supplanting and what funding
situations do and/or do not result in supplanting.
Old Business
None.
New Business
Executive Director Maki asked for feedback from the committee and board members
regarding form and content as staff continues to develop and improve the presentation of
information in the meeting materials.
Ms. Campanelli asked whether or not public defenders can become partners in multidisciplinary teams. Executive Director Maki said that future funding will involve requests
for proposals and an effort will be made to consider public defender participation.
Budget Committee Chair Hora requested that future meeting materials be organized so
that the appendices are grouped with their associated memos.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to adjourn the meeting. Director Schmitz seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
10:24 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 12, 2016
Page 5

 