ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Ad Hoc Authority Board Committee Meeting
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Tuesday, November 13, 2018 at 10am – Noon
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200 – Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

AGENDA

I.
II.

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of Minutes

III.

Review Recommendations Memo

IV.

Discuss Next Steps

V.

Adjourn

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
AD HOC AUTHORITY BOARD COMMITTEE MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
September 18, 2018 at 10am – Noon
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Roll Call
Chair Paula Wolff welcomed board members and guests to the Ad Hoc Authority
Board Committee Meeting. The meeting was called to order at 10:06 a.m. and
Acting General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz called the roll.
Committee Member Attendance
Director Paula Wolff (Chair)
Honorable Elizabeth Robb
Deputy Director Antwan Turpeau
Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Other Authority Members Present
Carla Barnes
James O’Grady
Nicole Kramer
Era Laudermilk
David Olson
Cynthia Hora

Present Telephone Absent
X
X
X
X
Present Telephone Absent
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
Dr. Megan Alderden, ICJIA Research Director
Malgorzata Bereziewicz, ICJIA Acting General Counsel
Wanda Block, ICJIA Grant Monitor
Marilyn Jackson, ICJIA, Administrative Specialist
Bryant Jackson-Green, ICJIA Strategic Policy Analyst
John Maki, ICJIA Executive Director
Robin Murphy, ICJIA Deputy Counsel
Gregory Stevens, ICJIA Acting Associate Director of the Federal and State Grants
Unit
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 Ms. Bereziewicz stated a quorum had been achieved.
Chairman’s Remarks
Chair Wolff welcomed all attendees and introductions were made. She asked if
there were any changes to the July 12, 2018, meeting minutes. Seeing there were
none, she asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Ms. Kramer made a motion
to approve the minutes and Ms. Laudermilk seconded the motion. The motion
passed by unanimous vote.
Executive Director’s Report
Director John Maki opened a discussion on the role of the ICJIA Board. He said
the meetings might be more effective if they were structured like seminars with an
overview of ICJIA programs and the process behind them and opportunities for the
board to ask questions.
Discussion: Committee Recommendation for Meetings and Materials
Mr. Maki said the agency was challenged to staff the various committees and task
forces created via legislative mandate and manage other mandated projects. He
added that with several different funding sources, there is no easy way around the
complexity of ICJIA’s work.
Ms. Wolff noted her request in the minutes for a flow chart of the grant-making
process. Mr. Maki said that will be part of work presented to the Board.

Commented [PW1]: I know he said this but I am not sure if it
was here or later in the process

Judge Robb suggested ICJIA staff reports back to the Board on the research that is
under way.
Ms. Hora said she would like to see the Board work on programmatic issues that
currently are only addressed at the committee level.
Ms. Wolff suggested taking a look at new research recommendations from Board
members, discussing local context and focus based on the county coordinating council
work, and asking questions of those involved in the studies.
Mr. Maki asked the committee for their thoughts on offering a Board orientation
similar to the one that was created two years ago for the Board. Jennifer VollenKatz suggested having the committee conduct Board orientation with the goal of
creating a fully functioning Board. Judge Robb agreed that orienting Board
members on a regular basis was a good idea. Ms. Vollen-Katz suggested Board
members should orient other Board members so they know what to expect.
Ms. Kramer suggested that Board members are notified ahead of time which
notices of funding opportunity (NOFOs) are coming. Mr. Maki said staff could

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [PW2]: I am not sure what I meant by this, but let’s
leave it.

 start notifying the Board of NOFOs with the hope that members would circulate
the NOFOs broadly to increase participation.
Ms. Laudermilk stated that ICJIA could empower Board members by putting them
in charge of a project. Ms. Kramer said she can appreciate Board member
availability, and asked if there’s another way for providing updates to, and
answering questions/issues from Board members.
Review and Discuss ICJIA’s Enabling Statute
Director Maki turned the committee’s attention to ICJIA’s statute and
administrative rules. He said Section 2 of the statute concerning evaluation of
information practices and programs does not precisely reflect ICJIA’s work. He
also noted victim services were not included in the statute’s definition of a
criminal justice system in Section 3(a). The section primarily includes references
to enforcement, prosecution, and the rehabilitation of offenders through
imprisonment, probation, parole, aftercare release and treatment, he said.
Mr. Maki asked whether mandated Board membership should be reconsidered,
especially in light of difficulties in achieving quorum at meetings. He asked
whether a victim services representative should be added to the board. Ms. Wolff
noted victim service representatives could be added as members of the public. Mr.
Maki also suggested the possibility of focusing only on local and regional
representation on the Board.
Dr. Olson noted the lack of Board representation in the area of probation. Mr.
Maki agreed and added that juvenile justice also is not represented. Ms. VollenKatz asked whether a parole representative should be considered.
Mr. Maki gave an example of a new Board meeting structure, which would include
a presentation on an issue or topic from the Research & Analysis Unit and
information on programs in place or in development to address it. He said he
would forward an example of the structure to Board members.
Ms. Wolff suggested having time after the meeting’s main discussion and before
New Business for a quick critique of the meeting by board members. Mr. Maki
said it would be good to have staff provide feedback on how the meeting went.
With no further comments, Chair Wolff asked for a motion to adjourn. A motion
to adjourn was made by Ms. Kramer and seconded by Mr. O’Grady. The meeting
adjourned at 11:27 a.m.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [EC3]: Was this in response to Eva? Was she
saying they are too busy to manage a project?
Commented [JM4R3]: Era suggested a concrete, ongoing
project the board could deal with. Yes…she was.
Commented [EC5R3]: She was saying they’re too busy to
manage a project? Sorry –I can’t tell what she is suggesting. Please
re-write.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM

To:

Ad Hoc Board Committee Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Date:

November 8, 2018

Subject:

Ad Hoc Board Committee Recommendations

In summer of 2018, ICJIA Chair Judge Elizabeth Robb created an Ad Hoc Board Committee
(Board Committee) to examine the effectiveness of the Board’s operations and to make
recommendations to strengthen its oversight and policy-making functions. Since that time, the
Board Committee and ICJIA staff have reviewed the structure of its quarterly meetings and
discussed ways to improve member engagement and to possibly amend the agency’s enabling
statute to allow for improved effectiveness.

Quarterly Board Meetings
ICJIA’s enabling statute requires that “the Authority shall meet at least quarterly, and all
meetings of the Authority shall be called by the Chairman” (20 ILCS 3930/4). Historically,
these meetings have been used for various purposes, including making funding
recommendations. Since 2015, most quarterly meetings have included updates from executive
staff and then turned to a research and practice presentation, which tends to focus on a critical
public safety issue, such as gun violence or the opioid crisis. While Committee members think
these meetings have been effective, they recommended that the meetings could be more focused
on board member priorities and provide an opportunity to learn more about ICJIA’s programs.
Based on members’ feedback, the Board Committee recommends the following structure for the
Board’s quarterly meetings:
● All meetings should begin with key updates by ICJIA’s executive director and the
associate directors of the agency’s research and analysis and federal and state grants
units. As part of these updates, executive staff should emphasize upcoming Notice of
Funding Opportunities, ensuring that members have the information they need to help
disseminate them to potential applicants. The chairs of the Board’s committees should
also provide high-level summaries of their meetings and remind members of upcoming
meetings.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Created in 1983, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) is a state agency dedicated to
improving the administration of criminal justice through research and grant making (20 ILCS 3930 et.
seq). ICJIA’s independent, statutorily created 25-member Board oversees the agency’s operations,
including approving the funding for its grant-funded programs. ICJIA’s statutory responsibilities fall
under the categories of grants administration, research and analysis, policy and planning, and
information systems and technology.
ICJIA Grant Administration Core Activities:
• Implements and funds criminal justice, victim services, violence prevention programs under the
Violence Against Women Act, Victims of Crime Act, Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
program, Adult Redeploy Illinois, and other state and federal grant programs.
• Monitors program activity, ensures accountability, and provides technical assistance to grantees.
ICJIA Research and Analysis Core Activities:
• Publishes research studies that analyze a variety of crime trends and criminal justice issues.
• Acts as a clearinghouse for information and research on crime, crime trends, and the criminal justice
system.
• Audits the state central repositories official criminal history record information for data accuracy and
completeness.
• Develops and evaluates state and local programs for improving law enforcement and the
administration of criminal justice.
• Provides or directs partners to technical assistance opportunities.
• Identifies and provides information about evidence-based and promising practices for implementation
by policymakers and practitioners.
ICJIA Policy and Planning Core Activities:
• Develops and implements comprehensive strategies for a coordinated response by the various
components of the criminal justice system for crime prevention and control and crime victim assistance
using federal funds awarded to Illinois.
• Advises the Governor and the General Assembly on criminal justice policies and legislation.
• Convenes groups of policymakers and practitioners to identify and address ongoing concerns of
criminal justice officials.
• Participates in initiatives that improve the impact and cost effectiveness of the criminal justice system.
ICJIA Information Systems and Technology Core Activities:
• Designs, develops, and supports systems, including Infonet, which enhance the quality of victim
service data.
• Serves as the sole administrative appeal body for determining citizen challenges to the accuracy of
their criminal history records.
• Monitors the operation of existing criminal justice information systems to protect the constitutional
rights and privacy of citizens.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ICJIA GRANT-MAKING PROCESS
Phase 6: Fund
and Evaluate

Phase 1:
Establish
Priorities

Phase 5:
Recommend
Applicants for
Funding

Phase 2:
Design Notice
of Funding
Opportunities

Phase 4: Score
Applications

PHASE 1: ICJIA establishes public safety priorities by completing a needs assessment that
includes (1) documentation of existing state and local practices; (2) information gathered
through surveys, focus groups, and interviews with key stakeholders; (3) analysis of trends
and patterns using administrative data; and (4) summary of relevant research literature. The
public safety priorities identified through the needs assessment are presented to the Board
for input and approval. ICJIA’s Strategic Opportunities Committee typically oversees this
stage of ICJIA’s grant-making process.

Phase 3:
Publish Notice
of Funding
Opportunities

should fund. To ensure that funding is spread equitably throughout the state, ICJIA
typically divides the state into regions—Chicago, Northern, Central, and Southern, and
Southern Illinois—and first selects applications with the highest score in each region. ICJIA
staff then select the applications with highest scores irregardless of where they’re located
until the available funding exhausted. This phase takes about one week to complete.

PHASE 5: Once staff have determined the successful applicants, ICJIA recommends them
to its Budget Committee. The Budget Committee is ultimately responsible for final funding
PHASE 2: ICJIA staff uses the agency’s approved public safety priorities to inform Notice decisions, basing their decisions on whether the recommended programs address the
agency’s public safety priorities.
of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) design. NOFOs are publicly available requests for
applications for state- and federally funded programs. When designing a NOFO, ICJIA’s
staff uses established priorities, research of best practices, and guidance and requirements PHASE 6: Upon approval by the Budget Committee, ICJIA executes grant agreements. The
of the state or funding source. NOFO design typically takes four to six weeks. During this execution process typically takes between six to eight weeks, but can take longer depending
on the complexity of the agreement and program. The length of a grant program is
time, ICJIA notifies the Board’s Budget Committee of the agency’s intent to publish a
determined by the funding source. Programs that are supported by state funds depend on an
NOFO, describing its scope and the amount of funding available. As part of the design
process, ICJIA staff also solicits members’ feedback on the NOFO and incorporates their annual appropriations in the state’s fiscal year budget, while programs that are supported by
federal funds can last up to three years. Regardless of the length of the grant, the Budget
recommendations.
Committee receives at minimum an annual update on the program. If the program runs for
PHASE 3: Once the design process is complete, ICJIA publishes the NOFO on its website. multiple years, the Budget Committee is responsible on an annual basis for deciding
whether to continue funding based on performance over the previous year. During this
By state law, NOFOs must remain open and available to the public for at least 30 days.
phase, ICJIA staff also review programs to identify those that can be formally evaluated.
During that period, ICJIA staff provides information and responds to questions from
Evaluation decisions are based on the program’s implementation quality, importance of the
potential applicants. All questions and answers are published on the agency’s website.
study to the state and larger research community, intentions to continue funding similar
programs in the future, and other factors related to an evaluation’s feasibility and value (e.g.,
PHASE 4: After the NOFO closes, ICJIA’s staff score the applications. After the
applications are scored, staff determine which ones they will recommend that ICJIA
resources, research design).

 ● The year’s first quarterly meeting should aim to provide a kind of state of the state in
criminal justice, with an overall presentation on ICJIA’s grant-funded programs and
research initiatives, presentations by Board members on what they see as the most critical
public-safety priorities, and public comment. Based on the input of this state-of-the-state
quarterly meeting, the Board and staff should select topics for the next three meetings,
focusing particularly on areas that ICJIA’s programs address, as members agreed that
they all wanted to know more about the agency’s grantees. After the executive staff
provide key updates, the agency’s research and analysis unit should frame the meeting’s
key topic from a national, state, and local perspective. The meeting should then focus on
how state and local are or could be addressing this issue. Time permitting, the Board
Committee suggested providing members an opportunity to give the Board updates on
their key initiatives, perhaps focusing on work that is related to the meeting topic. After
ICJIA completes a quarterly cycle of meetings, it should begin the process again and plan
for a new state-of-the-state quarterly meeting and subsequent set of three quarterly
meetings.
Improving Member Engagement
The Ad Hoc Board Committee agreed that more should be done to educate and engage members.
To that end, the Committee recommended that following:
● Conduct ongoing Board orientation for new members and refreshers for current members.
(To help with this objective, see the attached two-page text on ICJIA’s Grant-Making
Process.)
● Incorporate presentations from grantees at more Board meetings and provide more
opportunities for members to understand ICJIA’s grant programs.
Enabling Statute
ICJIA was created by state in 1983. Since then, the General Assembly has added several
mandates, but it has neither removed obsolete mandates nor amended the language of some
requirements so that it more accurately reflects the agency’s actual work. The Board Committee
discussed the following changes to the statute:
(20 ILCS 3930.2)
“The purpose of this Act is to coordinate the use of information in the criminal justice system; to
promulgate effective criminal justice information policy; to encourage the improvement of
criminal justice agency procedures and practices with respect to information; to provide new
information technologies; to permit the evaluation of information practices and programs; to
stimulate research and development of new methods and uses of criminal justice information for
the improvement of the criminal justice system and the reduction of crime; to protect the
integrity of criminal history record information, while protecting the citizen's right to privacy;
and to coordinate statewide violence prevention efforts and develop a statewide plan that

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

includes public health and public safety approaches to violence prevention in families,
communities, and schools.”
(20 ILCS 3930/3)
Sec. 3. Definitions. Whenever used in this Act, and for the purposes of this Act unless the
context clearly denotes otherwise:
The term "criminal justice system" includes all activities by public agencies and nongovernmental agencies pertaining to the prevention or reduction of crime or enforcement of the
criminal law, and particularly, but without limitation, the prevention, detection, and investigation
of crime; the apprehension of offenders; the protection of victims and witnesses; the
administration of juvenile justice; the prosecution and defense of criminal cases; the trial,
conviction, and sentencing of offenders; services provided to victims of crime; community-based
efforts to address crime and violence; as well as the correction and rehabilitation of offenders,
which includes imprisonment, probation, parole, aftercare release, and treatment. (20 ILCS
3930/3(a)

(20 ILCS 3930/7) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-7)
Sec. 7. Powers and duties. The Authority shall have the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
To develop and operate comprehensive information systems for the improvement and
coordination of all aspects of law enforcement, prosecution, and corrections;
To define, develop, evaluate, and correlate State and local programs and projects associated with
the improvement of law enforcement and the administration of criminal justice;
To act as a central repository and clearing house for federal, state, and local research studies,
plans, projects, proposals, and other information relating to all aspects of criminal justice system
improvement and to encourage educational programs for citizen support of State and local efforts
to make such improvements;
To undertake research studies to aid in accomplishing its purposes;
To monitor the operation of existing criminal justice information systems in order to protect the
constitutional rights and privacy of individuals about whom criminal history record information
has been collected;
To provide an effective administrative forum for the protection of the rights of individuals
concerning criminal history record information;
To issue regulations, guidelines, and procedures which ensure the privacy and security of
criminal history record information consistent with State and federal laws;
To act as the sole administrative appeal body in the State of Illinois to conduct hearings and
make final determinations concerning individual challenges to the completeness and accuracy of
criminal history record information;
To act as the sole, official, criminal justice body in the State of Illinois to conduct annual and
periodic audits of the procedures, policies, and practices of the State central repositories for

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 criminal history record information to verify compliance with federal and state laws and
regulations governing such information;
To advise the Authority's Statistical Analysis Center;
To apply for, receive, establish priorities for, allocate, disburse, and spend grants of funds that
are made available by and received on or after January 1, 1983 from private sources or from the
United States pursuant to the federal Crime Control Act of 1973, as amended, and similar federal
legislation, and to enter into agreements with the United States government to further the
purposes of this Act, or as may be required as a condition of obtaining federal funds;
To receive, expend, and account for such funds of the State of Illinois as may be made available
to further the purposes of this Act;
To enter into contracts and to cooperate with units of general local government or combinations
of such units, State agencies, and criminal justice system agencies of other states for the purpose
of carrying out the duties of the Authority imposed by this Act or by the federal Crime Control
Act of 1973, as amended;
To enter into contracts and cooperate with units of general local government outside of Illinois,
other states' agencies, and private organizations outside of Illinois to provide computer software
or design that has been developed for the Illinois criminal justice system, or to participate in the
cooperative development or design of new software or systems to be used by the Illinois criminal
justice system. Revenues received as a result of such arrangements shall be deposited in the
Criminal Justice Information Systems Trust Fund;
To establish general policies concerning criminal justice information systems and to promulgate
such rules, regulations, and procedures as are necessary to the operation of the Authority and to
the uniform consideration of appeals and audits;
To advise and to make recommendations to the Governor and the General Assembly on policies
relating to criminal justice information systems;
To direct all other agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor to provide whatever assistance
and information the Authority may lawfully require to carry out its functions;
To exercise any other powers that are reasonable and necessary to fulfill the responsibilities of
the Authority under this Act and to comply with the requirements of applicable federal law or
regulation;
To exercise the rights, powers, and duties which have been vested in the Authority by the Illinois
Uniform Conviction Information Act;(Blank); To exercise the rights, powers, and duties vested
in the Authority by the Illinois Public Safety Agency Network Act;
To provide technical assistance in the form of training to local governmental entities within
Illinois requesting such assistance for the purposes of procuring grants for gang intervention and
gang prevention programs or other criminal justice programs from the United States Department
of Justice;
To conduct strategic planning and provide technical assistance to implement comprehensive
trauma-informed recovery services for violent crime victims in underserved communities with
high levels of violent crime, with the goal of providing a safe, community-based, culturally
competent environment in which to access services necessary to facilitate recovery from the
effects of chronic and repeat exposure to trauma. Services may include, but are not limited to,
behavioral health treatment, financial recovery, family support and relocation assistance, and
support in navigating the legal system; andTo coordinate statewide violence prevention efforts
and assist in the implementation of trauma recovery centers and analyze trauma recovery
services. The Authority shall develop, publish, and facilitate the implementation of a 4-year

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

statewide violence prevention plan, which shall incorporate public health, public safety, victim
services, and trauma recovery centers and services.
Sec. 7.1. Sexual assault nurse examiner pilot program. (a) Legislative findings and intent.
The General Assembly finds that the compassionate treatment of sexual assault victims in
hospital emergency rooms is necessary to help alleviate the suffering of sexual assault victims.
The General Assembly also finds that the effective collection and presentation of forensic
evidence in sexual assault cases is necessary to increase the success rate of prosecutions for sex
crimes in Illinois. The General Assembly intends to create a pilot program to establish 4
sexual assault nurse examiner (SANE) projects in the State of Illinois. For each project, specially
trained sexual assault nurse examiners or specially trained sexual assault physician examiners
will provide health assessments and collect forensic evidence from sexual assault victims in the
emergency room. The sexual assault nurse examiners or sexual assault physician examiners will
also testify to victims' injuries during criminal prosecutions. (b) Definitions. In this Section:
(1) "Sexual assault nurse examiner" means a registered nurse who has completed a sexual assault
nurse examiner (SANE) training program that meets the Forensic Sexual Assault Nurse
Examiner Education Guidelines established by the International Association of Forensic Nurses.
(2) "Sexual assault physician examiner" means a physician licensed to practice medicine in all its
branches who has completed a sexual assault nurse examiner (SANE) training program that
meets the Forensic Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Education Guidelines established by the
International Association of Forensic Nurses.
(3) "Hospital" means a facility licensed by the
Department of Public Health under the Hospital Licensing Act or that meets both the definition
of hospital and the exemption provisions of that Act.
(4) "Hospital emergency services"
means the health care delivered to outpatients within or under the care and supervision of
personnel working in a designated emergency department or emergency room of a hospital. (c)
SANE pilot program. The Authority shall, subject to appropriation, establish a SANE pilot
program to operate 4 pilot projects in Illinois. The projects shall be established in the emergency
rooms of hospitals in 4 counties geographically distributed throughout the State. Hospitals
located throughout the State may apply to the Authority to participate in the program. Each
project must provide the following services:
(1) Compassionate health assessment and
effective forensic evidence collection for sexual assault victims by a trained sexual assault nurse
examiner or sexual assault physician examiner in a hospital emergency room as part of the
provision of hospital emergency services.
(2) Presentation of testimony regarding victims'
injuries during criminal prosecutions for sex offenses. (d) Each of the SANE projects
established under this pilot program must, at a minimum, meet the Sexual Assault Nurse
Examiner Standards of Practice established by the International Association of Forensic Nurses.
(e) Each of the 4 pilot projects established by the Authority under this Section shall be in
existence for a minimum of 3 years. (f) Report. No later than 2 years after the establishment of
pilot projects under this Section, the Authority must report to the General Assembly on the
efficacy of SANE programs. (g) Rules. The Authority shall adopt rules to implement this
Section. (Source: P.A. 91-529, eff. 1-1-00.) (20 ILCS 3930/7.2) Sec. 7.2. Custodial
Interview Pilot Program. (a) Legislative findings and intent. The General Assembly finds that
technology has made it possible to electronically record custodial interviews of suspects during

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 first degree murder investigations. This technology will protect law enforcement agencies against
claims of abuse and coercion by suspects while providing a memorialized account of interviews
at police stations. The technology will also provide a better means for courts to review
confessions of suspects with direct evidence of demeanor, tone, manner, and content of
statements. The General Assembly intends to create a Custodial Interview Pilot Program to
establish 4 pilot programs at police stations in the State of Illinois. For each program, video and
audio experts shall install equipment and train participating law enforcement agencies to
electronically record custodial interviews at their respective police stations. Participating law
enforcement agencies shall choose how to use the equipment in cooperation with the local State's
Attorney's office. The participating law enforcement agencies may choose to electronically
record interviews of suspects for offenses other than first degree murder if they adopt local
protocols in cooperation with the local State's Attorney's office. (b) Definitions. In this
Section:
(1) "Electronically record" means to memorialize by video and audio electronic
equipment.
(2) "Custodial interviews" means interviews of suspects during first degree
murder investigations or other investigations established by local protocol by law enforcement
authorities that take place at the police station. (c) Custodial Interview Pilot Program. The
Authority shall, subject to appropriation, establish a Custodial Interview Pilot Program to operate
4 custodial interview pilot programs. The programs shall be established in a police station in the
County of Cook and in 3 other police stations geographically distributed throughout the State.
Each participating law enforcement agency must:
(1) Promulgate procedures for recording
custodial interviews of suspects during first degree murder investigations by video and audio
means.
(2) Promulgate procedures for maintaining and storing video and audio recordings.
(d) Each of the 4 pilot programs established by the Authority shall be in existence for a minimum
of 2 years after its establishment under this Act. (e) Report. No later than one year after the
establishment of pilot programs under this Section, the Authority must report to the General
Assembly on the efficacy of the Custodial Interview Pilot Program. (f) The Authority shall
adopt rules in cooperation with the Illinois Department of State Police to implement this Section.
(Source: P.A. 93-605, eff. 11-19-03.)
(20 ILCS 3930/7.5) Sec. 7.5. Grants for electronic recording equipment. (a) The
Authority, from appropriations made to it for that purpose, shall make grants to local law
enforcement agencies for the purpose of purchasing equipment for electronic recording of
interrogations. (b) The Authority shall promulgate rules to implement this Section. (Source:
P.A. 93-206, eff. 7-18-03; 93-517, eff. 8-6-03.) (20 ILCS 3930/7.6) Sec. 7.6. Capital Crimes
Database. (a) Subject to appropriation, a Capital Crimes Database shall be created within the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA). (b) The ICJIA shall collect and retain
in the Capital Crimes Database all information on the prosecution, pendency, and disposition of
capital and capital eligible cases in Illinois. The Capital Crimes Database shall serve as a
repository for all of the foregoing collected information. (c) The ICJIA shall develop
administrative rules to provide for the coordination and collection of information in the Capital
Crimes Database. (d) Agencies required to provide information on capital cases to the ICJIA,
as the ICJIA may request, for the Capital Crimes Database shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Office of the Attorney General.
(2) Illinois Department of Corrections.
(3) Illinois
State Police.
(4) All county State's Attorneys.
(5) All county public defenders.
(6)
Office of the State's Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor.
(7) Office of the State Appellate
Defender. (e) Agencies requested to provide information on capital cases to the ICJIA for the

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Capital Crimes Database shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Administrative Office of
Illinois Courts.
(2) All county circuit court clerks. (f) The ICJIA shall develop procedures
and protocols for the submission of information relating to capital and capital eligible cases to
the Database in conjunction with the agencies submitting information. (Source: P.A. 95-688, eff.
10-23-07.) (20 ILCS 3930/8) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-8) Sec. 8. Criminal Justice Agency. The
Authority shall be deemed a criminal justice agency under all federal and State laws and
regulations, and as such shall have access to any information available to criminal justice
agencies. (Source: P.A. 82-1039.)

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 