ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 19, 2016
9:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Budget Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority met on
Tuesday, January 19, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room,
Chicago, Illinois. Authority Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora (representing
Attorney General Lisa Madigan) called the meeting to order at 9:04 a.m. Authority
Deputy General Counsel Junaid Afeef called the roll.
Other Authority members and designees present were:
Jennifer Greene for State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director Patrick Delfino (via teleconference)
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb (via teleconference)
Col. James Winters for Director Leo Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Also in attendance were:
Authority Executive Director John Maki
Authority Associate Director, Federal and State Grants Unit, Kevin Givens
Authority Program Supervisors Greg Stevens, Ron Reichgelt, and Shai Hoffman
Authority Federal and State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
Sharmili Majmudar representing Rape Victim Advocates
Other Authority staff members and guests.

 1. Public Comment
None.

2. Minutes of the October 20, 2015 Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to approve the Minutes of the October 20, 2015 Budget
Committee meeting. Col. Winters seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice
vote.

3. Justice Assistance Grants (JAG)
Associate Director Kevin Givens called attention to the memo from himself dated
January 19, 2016 regarding the FFY14 JAG plan adjustment and contained at Item 3 in
the meeting materials. He said that staff recommends designating $331,569 in FFY14
funds to the Illinois Department of Corrections (IDOC) to support its Community-Based
Residential Treatment for Adults program. He said that this pre-release program provides
for a structured environment that includes strict expectations for behavior, participation,
and active involvement during substance abuse treatment programming at an IDOC Adult
Transition Center (ATC). He briefly described the program’s budget details.
Motion: Ms. Campanelli moved to approve the recommended JAG FFY14 plan
adjustment. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.

4. Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act (RSAT) Local Program Request for
Proposal (RFP)
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo from himself dated January 19,
2016 regarding the FFY13 - FFY15 RSAT Local Program RFP and contained at Item 4
in the meeting materials. He said that the RFP would support local post-detention
programs to treat heroin addiction.
Mr. Stevens said that after the RFP is let out and the responses are scored, staff will
present to the Budget Committee a set of designation requests to support the winning
proposals.
This information was provided for informational purposes only. No Budget Committee
action was taken.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 19, 2016
Page 2

 5. Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA)
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo from himself dated January 19,
2016 regarding the FFY13 and FFY14 SORNA plan adjustments and contained at Item 5
in the meeting materials. He described designations of $159,098 in lapsing FFY13 funds
and $263,394 in FFY14 funds to the Illinois Sheriff’s Association to enter into a oneyear contract for statewide provision of Offender Watch © services. He said that this
effort would move Illinois closer to compliance with the Adam Walsh Child Protection
and Safety Act of 2006.
Ms. Wolff said that, ultimately, full compliance with the Adam Walsh Act would require
legislative action by the General Assembly.
Director Maki said that there are two issues here:
1. There is a larger compliance issue that includes needed statutory changes that
have not happened yet.
2. There is the question as to whether this is a worthwhile program in and of itself.
Mr. Reichgelt said that these funds resulted from a five percent fine on the Authority’s
JAG awards for Adam Walsh Act non-compliance. These funds are returned to these
states to support programming to move the states toward compliance. The Authority has
been using these funds to support a statewide reporting system via the Illinois State
Police (ISP). However, these funds pay for participating counties’ fees for using the
Offender Watch system as made possible by the Illinois Sheriff’s Association. Offender
Watch is not a statewide system and the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) has informed
the Authority that starting with the FFY15 award support for Offender Watch will no
longer be an allowable use of SORNA funds. Therefore, the remaining FFY13 and
FFY14 funds are being used to continue to support Offender Watch until those funds are
exhausted. Staff is working with ISP to develop a use of the FFY15 SORNA funds in
support of a statewide system. Neither of these things will bring Illinois into full
compliance with the Adam Walsh Act.
This information was provided for informational purposes only. No Budget Committee
action was taken.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 19, 2016
Page 3

 6. Victim Assistance Discretionary Grant Training (VADGT) Program
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo from himself dated January 19,
2016 regarding the FFY15 VADGT plan introduction and contained at Item 6 in the
meeting materials. He said that the designations recommended by staff and described in
the table below would support training and technical assistance for victim assistance
service providers and would have program start dates of January 1, 2016.
DESIGNEE
Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault
Illinois Attorney General’s Office
TOTAL

FFY15
$100,000
$100,000
$100,000
$300,000

Ms. Wolff said that research should be a component of any program as a means of
evaluating training program effectiveness.
Ms. Greene said that these training programs are fairly standardized across the country.
Mr. Reichgelt said that Illinois received the FFY15 VADGT award of almost $1 million
as a discretionary grant and a result of a competitive process. The basis for this program
is the drastic expansion of Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funding; the Office for Victims
of Crime (OVC) didn’t want VOCA-funded programs to hire lots of new people without
making the proper training available to them.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended VADGT plan introduction. Ms.
Greene seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote, with an abstention
by Ms. Hora with regard to the designation to the Illinois Attorney General’s Office.

7. Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo from himself dated January 19,
2016 regarding the FFY12, FFY13, and FFY14 VAWA plan adjustments and contained
at Item 7 in the meeting materials. He called attention to the table on Page 1 of the
VAWA memo describing FFY12 and FFY13 funds recently returned to the Authority and
said that staff recommended that those funds be made available for other programming.
He said that the table on Page 2 of the VAWA memo described recommended
designations to support Multi-Disciplinary Team Response programs (MDTs).

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 19, 2016
Page 4

 Ms. Campanelli said that despite the large volume of information presented in the
materials regarding the designation recommendations, a more focused presentation would
be helpful.
Mr. Reichgelt said that every three years the Authority hosts a Victim Services Ad Hoc
Committee (VSAHC) meeting, the most recent one having been in 2013. This is done to
satisfy VAWA Implementation Plan requirements. The VSAHC consists of Authority
Board members and stakeholders from throughout Illinois. At the meetings, staff
provides the VSAHC with data showing victimization, crime rates, service gaps, etc., and
the VSAHC uses that data to develop a spending plan. The VSAHC also develops
priorities for the use of VAWA funds which are then presented to the Authority Board
along with the Implementation Plan. One aspect of the current plan is that VAWA funds
should support MDTs; coordinated programs and specialized personnel across specific
disciplines – law enforcement, probation, prosecution, and service providers. The
designations recommended in this memo are the winning responses to a Request-forApplications (RFA) that was let in 2015. While each participating agency will receive its
own grants, each MDT will be evaluated as a whole; the whole MDT will be held
accountable if a single participating entity fails. Evaluations of past MDT programs have
shown them to be very successful.
Ms. Wolff suggested that future Budget Committee memorandums addressing
designation recommendations derived from RFA or RFP processes include summaries of
said processes so that the necessary background information will be available to the
Board members as they review the materials.
Director Maki suggested scheduling pre-meeting conference calls so that Board
Members’ questions can be addressed between the time that they receive the Budget
Committee agenda/materials and the Budget Committee meetings themselves.
Mr. Reichgelt said that these programs would have program start dates of January 1,
2016.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended VAWA FFY12, FFY13, and
FFY14 plan adjustments. Ms. Campanelli seconded the motion and it passed by
unanimous voice vote, with an abstention by Ms. Greene with regard to the designations
involving Cook County.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 19, 2016
Page 5

 8. Violence Against Women Act Grants to Encourage Arrest and Enforcement of
Protection Orders Program (VAWA A)
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo from himself dated January 19,
2016 regarding the FFY14 VAWA A plan adjustment and contained at Item 8 in the
meeting materials. He said that Rock Island County originally received a VAWA A
FFY14 grant for $9,260 to support its Judicial Circuit Family Violence Coordinating
Council (FVCC), but these funds had been rescinded and made available for other
programming purposes. He said that staff recommends designating $234,070 in
additional FFY14 funds to support the second year of the original FVCC designations
that were approved in 2014, as described in the attached Budget Committee Grant
Recommendation Report. These programs normally receive additional funding from the
state, but such funding has not been disbursed in SFY16 due to the budget impasse.
This information was provided for informational purposes only. No Budget Committee
action was taken.

9. Victims of Crime Act (VOCA)
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo from Director Maki dated
January 19, 2016 regarding the FFY12, FFY14, and FFY15 VOCA plan adjustments and
contained at Item 9 in the meeting materials. He called attention to the table on Page 1 of
the VOCA memo describing FFY12 and FFY14 funds recently returned to the Authority
and said that staff recommended that those funds be made available for other
programming. He said that the table on Page 2 of the VOCA memo described
recommended designations to support Multi-Disciplinary Team Response programs
(MDTs) in conjunction with the VAWA MDT designations described in Item 7.
Sharmili Majmudar, representing Rape Victim Advocates (RVA), delivered a
presentation describing services provided by RVA and RVA’s role in its respective MDT
program.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended VOCA FFY12, FFY14, and
FFY15 plan adjustments. Col. Winters seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous
voice vote, with an abstention by Ms. Greene with regard to the designations involving
Cook County.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 19, 2016
Page 6

 10. 2016 Budget Committee Meeting Schedule
Associate Director Givens called attention to the memo from himself dated January 19,
2016 regarding the 2016 Budget Committee Meeting Schedule and contained at Item 10
in the meeting materials. He called attention to the schedule, as described in the table
below:
Date
May 12, 2016
August 18, 2016
November 10, 2016

Time
9AM
9AM
9AM

Location
Authority’s Offices
Authority’s Offices
Authority’s Offices

Associate Director Givens said that:
• If significant conflicts with these dates arise for the committee members,
alternative dates will be considered.
• If staff determines that no Budget Committee action is necessary on any of the
above dates, board members will be notified in advance of such dates as to the
meeting’s cancellation.

Old Business
None.

New Business
None.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Greene moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Dunne seconded the motion and
it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 10:42 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 19, 2016
Page 7

 