ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, March 11, 2016 at 9:01 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-502
Chicago, Illinois

Roll Call
Authority Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting
to order and asked Assistant General Counsel Robin Murphy to call the roll.
Authority Board Member Attendance
State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Director John Baldwin
Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli (after roll call)
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino
Interim Superintendent John Escalante
Director Brent Fischer
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director George Shelton
Rick Tanksley
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

Present

Telephone

Absent
X
X
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Judge Robb stated that there was not a quorum, however, if more members arrived and a
quorum was achieved, the December meeting minutes and other matters needing votes
would be addressed.

 Chair Robb thanked everyone for their attendance at the meeting and especially
acknowledged Rodger Heaton, Illinois Director of Public Safety, for attending the meeting.
Mr. Heaton is the chair of the Governor’s Commission on Criminal Justice and Sentence
Reform.
Chair Robb then welcomed new Board Member Brent Fischer, who was appointed
executive director of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board in
December. She then asked Director Maki to give the Director’s Report.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki began his remarks by sharing that the audit resulting from House Resolution
888 (HR 888) will be released in the near future. HR 888 calls for the Office of the
Inspector General to conduct an audit of the Authority’s Community Violence Prevention
Program.
Next, Director Maki explained the framework that has been developed for the upcoming
VOCA/VAWA planning process and asked members to refer to the VOCA/VAWA
Planning Memo in their materials. The intent of this planning process, as outlined in the
memo, is to present a framework to implement a fair, research driven, comprehensive plan
while working closely with victim service agency partners to shore up current services and
address unmet needs of victims of crime in Illinois through an unprecedented increase in
funding. Board members will have oversight over this process at the Victim Service
Advisory Committee meeting, where victims’ needs will be presented and addressed; at
the Budget Committee meeting, where funding recommendations will be presented, and at
the Authority’s regular quarterly meeting.
Director Maki reviewed the four pillars that will inform the planning process: federal rules
and regulations; state laws, including the 2014 Illinois Grants Accountability and
Transparency Act (GATA), which requires a rigorous use of competitive requests for
proposals to determine funding; Authority rules and guidelines; and the three-year
VOCA/VAWA Plan. He then provided an overview of the three main points in the memo
(Attachment A): technical assistance and Authority internal capacity building; expansion
of services under the current plan, and the strategic plan and implementation.
Chair Robb reminded members that the Authority has two committees—the Budget
Committee and the Strategic Opportunities Committee—and has assigned members for the
purposes of quorum. Any Authority member can attend either committee and by attending
may vote on items.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 2

 Chief Fiscal Officer Randy Kurtz said the Authority hopes to hire a victim needs
assessment contractor in May or June with a six-month timeline to complete the project. In
addition, the other internal staffing needs are being addressed immediately. In response to
a question regarding the 2017 VAWA plan deadline, VAWA and VOCA Program
Administrator Ron Reichgelt said the plan will most likely be due in March 2017. He also
reminded the members that all states are waiting for the federal government to approve and
release new guidelines related to grant making. With no other questions, Director Maki
introduced Junaid Afeef to discuss the Authority’s new Targeted Violence Prevention
Program.
Mr. Afeef made a short presentation of the Targeted Violence Prevention Program that will
identify youth at risk for engaging in criminal domestic terrorism activities, identify the
issues that caused the youth to become interested in domestic terrorism, and provide
supportive services to the youth. He said in the 14-and-a-half years since September 11,
2001, 45 deaths have been the result of terrorism caused by individuals inspired by AlQueda or ISIS. In addition, the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) has 900 open
investigations in every state for individuals that are radicalizing online as well as
individuals trying to recruit others, he said. The FBI is investigating these crimes with the
goal of interdicting before the individuals act. Mr. Afeef explained there is a fear that
individuals will slip through the crack and/or choose to act so quickly that the FBI will not
have the ability to prevent an attack. There is also a concern that many of the individuals
being investigated are impressionable young people who may be set up, through
undercover investigations, to be successfully prosecuted. The end result of that scenario
does nothing to change their belief system, he said. Therefore several national groups have
begun to develop prevention programs for targeted violence across the spectrum of
ideology. Mr. Afeef said the FBI sees the Authority as perfectly situated to develop such
an initiative, as the agency marries research and grant making with board leadership that
touches on all the critical aspects of a prevention program. Mr. Afeef said with Rodger
Heaton’s leadership, the Governor’s Office has agreed to bring this program to Illinois. In
addition, at this time, the project will be supported with homeland security funds, he said,
adding the objective is to bring more resources as they become available at the federal level
to fund community-led prevention work. Mr. Afeef closed his remarks by saying that there
was great interest in this project and he looks forward to being able to present a more
thorough presentation in the near future. After a question from Ms. Hora, Mr. Afeef
clarified that the program is being supported with a grant from the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA) to support his position.
Chairman’s Remarks
At this point in the meeting, a quorum was established so Chair Robb asked for the approval
of the meeting minutes of September 11, 2015, and December 16, 2015. President
Preckwinkle moved to accept the minutes and Ms. Wolf seconded the motion. The motion

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 3

 was adopted by unanimous vote. Then Chair Robb called the members’ attention to two
resolutions and summarized them for the members. The first was to honor Authority staff
member Lisa Stephens and the second was to honor former Authority member Kevin
McClain. Ms. Stephens served as the Authority’s general counsel and chief of staff from
April 2010 until January 2016, leaving to become the chief operating officer for a Chicago
non-profit aimed at addressing gun violence. The resolution outlined Ms. Stephen’s
important achievements and thanked her for her leadership.
Mr. McClain served on the Authority as director of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training
and Standards Board from August 2009 until he retired in December 2015. The resolution
outlined Mr. McClain’s achievements and commended him for his dedicated service. Judge
Robb asked for a unified motion to adopt the resolutions. President Preckwinkle made the
motion which was seconded by Ms. Wolff and unanimously adopted.
Authority Financial Report
Authority Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz outlined major fiscal matters for the
Authority members. He stated that in the first eight months of the state fiscal year, the
Authority spent about $22 million, with $17 million in grant expenditures, and
administrative costs comprising the balance. The expenditures included only federal funds
due to the lack of a state budget. Ninety-two percent of the $17 million were spent from
VOCA, VAWA and JAG funds. He said the Authority has maintained staff, is ready to
move quickly when the state budget is resolved, and continues to look for ways to reduce
costs. Mr. Kurtz highlighted the importance of diligently managing the funding sources
during a budget impasse so as to not supplant funds. He also emphasized the impact the
increased VOCA funds will have on the Authority, especially in regard to long term
financial forecasting.
Committee Reports
Chair Robb asked Ms. Hora for Budget Committee updates. Ms. Hora stated that the
committee last met on January 19th. The Budget Committee approved several budget
reductions and also approved new grants. In summary, those new grants were made to the
Illinois Department of Corrections using JAG funds, and the Illinois Attorney General’s
Office, Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence, and Illinois Coalition Against Sexual
Assault for training new advocates. In addition, five multidisciplinary team awards were
approved, as well as the awards under the VAWA Discretionary Fund. Ms. Hora asked if
the Victim Needs Assessment RFP will come to the Budget Committee for approval. Mr.
Maki said administration funds will be used and will not require Budget Committee
approval.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 4

 Chair Robb then asked Ms. Wolff if there were any Strategic Opportunities Committee
updates. Ms. Wolff said the committee last met on February 24th. She summarized the
committee is designed to establish a framework and process for the Authority’s grant
making. The committee has developed normative principles as well as principles for the
grant making process. She said the normative principles will be brought to the next
Authority meeting and that the grantmaking principles were approved at a previous
Authority meeting. The Committee most recently focused on the JAG goals, which
committee members took to their constituency groups for feedback. Ms. Wolff thanked
members for obtaining that feedback as it was incorporated at the last meeting. She
appreciated the member participation and reiterated that everyone is welcome at the
meeting.
Research and Practice Presentation & Panel Discussion
Director Maki introduced Dr. Laura Kunard, criminologist at CNA, a non-profit research
and analysis agency. She is working with the U.S. Department of Justice on police
reform. Dr. Kunard’s presentation, “Fairness, Voice, Transparency, and Impartiality:
How the Principles of Procedural Justice Can Strengthen Legitimacy in the Criminal
Justice System and Improve Public Safety Outcomes,” focused on public perception of
government. She defined legal cynicism, legitimacy, and procedural justice and presented
research, national trends, and reforms taking place at the national and state levels
(Attachment B).
After her presentation, she was joined by four additional criminal justice reform
advocates. These guests included Reverend K. Edward Copeland, senior pastor, New
Zion Baptist Church; Justice Shelvin Louise Marie Hall, appellate judge of Illinois’ First
District, 6th Division; Father Dave Kelly, executive director, Precious Blood Ministry of
Reconciliation, and Chief Rick Tanksley, Oak Park Police Department. The panel
discussion addressed the criminal justice system’s task of building community trust.
Several panelists emphasized how much of this will come to fruition as positive
interactions and relationships are developed between local law enforcement and
community members. Productive relationships also extend across criminal justice
agencies to improve collaboration. The panelists discussed disproportionate minority
contact, police training and department management, implicit and unconscious bias, and
developing positive relationships with at-risk youth and community members. Director
Maki and Chair Robb thanked the panelists.
Public Comment
Chair Robb then offered the public an opportunity to address the Board. She reminded all
members of the public who wish to speak that comments must be limited to three minutes,

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 5

 according to the rules of the Authority, and also that any comments must be germane to
the topic of the meeting.
The first person to address the Board was Judge Shelia Murphy. She wanted to follow up
on a point that was made regarding offenders with addiction issues. She said judges outside
of the drug treatment court context are making decisions without knowledge of addiction
and mental health issues. Medical input must become part of every court, she said.
The second person to address the Board was Joyce Coffee, executive director of Family
Rescue. She said her organization is a member of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered
Women’s Network. Ms. Coffee thanked the Authority for its support of the domestic
violence community over the years. She expressed that domestic violence agencies cannot
wait another year for VOCA funding. She described years of fiscal distress that has had a
negative impact on providers and their ability to serve victims of domestic violence. She
stated that she understands the strategic planning process the Authority plans to embark
upon, however, she requested the Authority augment that process by utilizing the vast
amount of information domestic violence agencies can provide.
The third person to address the Board was Karina Agala-Berjejo, executive director of the
Legal Aid Society of Metropolitan Family Services and general counsel for Metropolitan
Family Services. Her agency is a member of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s
Network. She said a victim assistance survey was conducted statewide and addresses all
crimes. She concluded by saying that she and other domestic violence advocates can
provide subject matter expertise so that the Authority can save money and time in the
planning process.
The fourth person to address the Board was Denice Wolf Markham, executive director of
Lifespan, which is a member of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network.
She said her agency provides counseling, advocacy, and legal services to about 4,000
victims of domestic and sexual violence and their children in Cook County every year. She
commended the Authority for the deliberate and thoughtful VOCA planning process. She
echoed previous comments regarding providers’ fiscal crisis and increased needs of victims
and stated that her understanding of the federal government goal in increasing the VOCA
funds is to increase capacity of existing services.
The fifth person to address the Board was Hedal Shalabi, co-founder and executive director
of Arab American Family Services, which is a member of the Chicago Metropolitan
Battered Women’s Network. Ms. Shalabi expressed that her agency has been waiting for
almost 15 years to be able to apply for VOCA funds and that victims of domestic violence
cannot wait for increased funding. She requested that the Authority release $16 to $20
million and said data on domestic violence services is available.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 6

 The sixth person to address the Board was Michelle Valiukenas, supervisor of the Domestic
Violence Court for Metropolitan Family Services, which is a member of the Chicago
Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network. Ms. Valiukenas expressed that domestic
violence crosses many boundaries and other crimes. She referenced an editorial, written by
President Preckwinkle, and agreed with the president that society shouldn’t just wait to
intervene after violence. Ms. Valiukenas stated that childhood exposure to domestic
violence leads to future violence. She also referenced a quote by panelist Father Kelly that
domestic violence is at the root of much of the violence seen in the streets.
The last person to address the Board was Kathleen Doherty, executive director of the
Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network. She said the organization has been
around since the 1980s, includes 45 member agencies, operates the Statewide Domestic
Violence Hotline, does legislative and strategic advocacy, and includes a Centralized
Training Institute. Over 24,000 calls come in on average of which about 20% of requested
services are not met. She said her agency has been involved in many evaluation projects
and can share this information with the Authority. She echoed previous statements that
waiting for the VOCA funds to be distributed is very disappointing given that they know
what needs to be addressed. She respects the Authority’s planning process but requests that
additional funds be distributed now.
Adjourn
Chair Robb asked if there were any other members of the public who wished to make a
comment. Seeing none, she asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Hora moved to
adjourn the meeting and the motion was seconded by Ms. Vollen-Katz. The meeting was
adjourned at 11:30 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 7

 