ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Regular Board Meeting
Wednesday, December 16, 2015 9:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m.
300 W. Adams, 2nd Floor Conference Room
Chicago, IL
AGENDA
I. Call to Order and Roll Call
II. Approval of the Minutes of September 11, 2015 (Minutes to be provided.)
III. Public Comment
IV. Approval of ICJIA’s Guiding Principles
V. Chairman’s Remarks
VI. Executive Director's Report
VII. ICJIA Financial Report
VIII. Committee Reports
a. Budget Committee
b. Strategic Opportunities Committee
IX. Presentation & Panel Discussion: Crime Victimization in Illinois: Prevalence,
Consequences, & Progress, Jennifer Hiselman ICJIA
a. Panel Discussion with
• Eddie Bocanegra, M.A. Executive Director, Youth Safety and Violence
Prevention, YMCA of Metro Chicago
• Mark Parr, LCSW, Executive Director, Child Advocacy Center of North
and Northwest Cook County
• Polly Poskin, Executive Director, Illinois Coalition Against Sexual
Assault
• Vickie Smith, Executive Director, Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence
• Marlita White, Director, Office of Violence Prevention and Behavioral
Health, Chicago Department of Public Health
X. Adjourn
This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive
Order #5 and pertinent State and Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with
disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should contact by telephone
or letter to Randy Kurtz, Deputy Director, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300
W. Adams St. Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150 or at (312) 793-8550. TDD services are
available at (312) 793-4170.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY PRINCIPLES

The goal of this document is to establish principles to guide the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority’s (Authority) work in the areas of policy, grant making and research. The administrative grant
making guidelines for the implementation of these principles are outlined in the Authority Resolution #2
(2001).
The criminal justice system should promote public safety through the following principles:
•

•
•

•
•

•
•
•

•

•

Legitimacy: Criminal justice practices and policy should provide an equitable justice system for
all Illinois residents by strengthening the trust between citizen and the justice system and
promoting the fair distribution of rights, resources and opportunities. These practices and
policies must intentionally acknowledge disproportionate minority contact and create systemic
change to address this issue.
Due Process: Criminal justice practices and policy should ensure that all individuals are afforded
equal access to fair treatment under the law.
Fair and Just: Criminal justice practices and policy should ensure that all individuals are treated
equally and that punishment is proportional to the seriousness of the offense committed,
designed to achieve offender accountability and public safety, and limited to the amount
necessary to achieve the intended outcomes.
Restoration: The criminal justice system should address the needs of crime victims and respect
and support victims’ rights and choices.
Rehabilitation: The criminal justice system should require and support offender rehabilitation
services to offenders who want them. These services should be provided in a culturally
competent and gender sensitive manner.
Strengthen Communities: The criminal justice system should strengthen communities and their
informal capacities to prevent crime and violence.
Prevention: The criminal justice system should prevent crime and violence to mitigate its
harmful effects on individuals and communities.
Research Informed: Criminal justice policies and practices should be informed by statistics,
research, and community input. Criminal justice data, statistical analyses, and research should
be accessible to all communities.
Collaboration: The sectors of criminal justice system should collaborate to provide efficient,
effective and expedient justice. This collaboration should foster cross-system coordination and
information sharing.
Efficient: The criminal justice system should avoid unnecessary costs and maximize its limited
resources to achieve its intended outcomes.

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
December 16, 2015
Presenters

Mark Parr
Mark Parr is the Executive Director of the Children’s Advocacy Center of North and
Northwest Cook County in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. He is a Licensed Clinical Social
Worker in the State of Illinois with more than thirty years of experience providing
services for children and families in a variety of settings, including residential treatment
centers, community mental health clinics, and Children’s Advocacy Centers.
Mark has been the Executive Director of the Children’s Advocacy Center of North and
Northwest Cook County since 1998. Prior to coming to the Children’s Advocacy Center,
Mark worked as Clinical Director of the Columbus Hospital Child Protection Center in
Chicago, Illinois (1996-1998) and as a Supervisor of Forensic Services at La Rabida
Children’s Hospital in Chicago, Illinois (1989-1996).
Mark received his BA in Psychology from the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign and his MSW from Loyola University.
Vickie Smith
Vickie Smith, began her work in the battered women’s movement over 30 years ago by
providing direct services to survivors of domestic violence. She helped open a nonresidential crisis intervention program, first serving on the Board of Directors and then
serving as the first non-paid director. Vickie joined the staff of the Illinois Coalition
Against Domestic Violence in March, 1988 as a Grant Monitor, and then became
Executive Director in 1993.
Vickie has done work in the battered women’s movement on the national level. She is a
founding Board member of the National Network to End Domestic Violence, a national
advocacy agency located in Washington D.C. During the development of the National
Network, Vickie worked with other state and national advocates on drafting the historic
1994 Violence Against Women Act, which has had a significant impact on services for
battered women.
In May, 1999 she relocated to Texas where she joined the National Center on Domestic
and Sexual Violence and participated in technical assistance and training all over the
United States. Vickie resumed the position of Executive Director of ICADV in August,
2008.

 CHILDREN’S ADVOCACY CENTER
OF NORTH AND NORTHWEST COOK COUNTY
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
The programs of the Children’s Advocacy Center of North and Northwest Cook County
are the Coordination, Advocacy and Sensitive Interviewing Program (CASI), the Family
Support Services Program (FSS) and the Safe From the Start Program (SFTS).
Coordination, Advocacy and Sensitive Interviewing Program (CASI)
The CASI Program is the primary service provided at the agency. This program is
unique in that it works to bring members of local law enforcement agencies, investigators
from the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS), and the State’s
Attorney’s Office together with the Center staff in a coordinated way to investigate
allegations of sexual and severe physical abuse. The CAC staff arranges for the child and
her/his family, and the professionals, to come to the Center so that the investigators may
observe an interview of the child who has made an allegation of abuse. These interviews
are conducted by a specially trained CAC interviewer and take place in a
developmentally appropriate setting at the Children’s Advocacy Center. This
coordinated approach helps minimize the trauma of the investigative process and leads to
better outcomes for the investigators, the child, and her/his family.
The CASI Program provides front-line intervention for children and families, during and
following the investigation of the alleged abuse. Each family is assigned an Advocate at
the time of referral to the agency. Families depend on their Advocate for support,
guidance, and information, and as a result, an Advocate is on-call 7 days a week, 24
hours a day. Professionals also depend on the Advocate to help support the family during
the investigation, prepare the child and family for the experience of going to court, and
link the family to other services in the community.
The Children’s Advocacy Center remains actively involved with each family until their
case has reached a formal resolution, whether or not the alleged offender is criminally
charged. In all situations, the child victim and her/his needs remain the focus of the
Center’s services. Although the average case remains open for eight months, each child
and family situation is unique. In cases where a criminal trial occurs, the Center may
remain involved for more than two years.
CASI Program services include:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

24-hour availability for referral and investigative response
coordination between the family and mandated investigators
expert interviewing of alleged child victims of abuse
linkage to expert medical evaluations
support services for children and families
crisis intervention
linkage to counseling and other community services

1

 •
•

court preparation and advocacy
services available in Spanish

Family Support Services (FSS)
The Family Support Services Program is designed to complement the existing services of
the Center by assessing, monitoring and intervening with children and families where an
allegation of abuse has been investigated and risk to the child (or children) is not
sufficient to warrant protective placement or intact family services through the
Department of Children and Family Services. The FSS Program services are provided
through intensive case planning; child abuse assessments; trauma-focused individual,
family and group counseling; and linkages to community services. Services are generally
completed within one year of the referral to the FSS Program. The services are available
in English or Spanish and are provided for families free of charge.
FSS Program services include:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

case planning
crisis intervention
community referrals and linkages
abuse assessments and evaluations
short-term therapy
support and therapy groups for child victims and non-offending parents
case staffing

Safe From the Start
The Safe From the Start Program began as a multi-year, demonstration project, funded in
part through a grant from the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority. Safe From the Start
developed and implemented a comprehensive and coordinated system for preventing and
responding to the harmful effects of exposure to violence on young children (birth
through age 5). “Exposure to violence” is defined as being a victim of abuse, neglect or
maltreatment, or a witness to domestic violence, physical or sexual violence, or other
crime.
The Children’s Advocacy Center, as the lead agency for a coalition of more than 25
agencies and organizations, implemented a program that began serving residents of the
communities of Hoffman Estates, Schaumburg, Streamwood and Hanover Park in 2001.
The program currently serves children and families in the northwest suburbs of Cook
County. Safe From the Start Program services include centralized intake; specialized
child assessments; case coordination; evidence-based, trauma-focused therapeutic
services; community education and violence prevention activities; and professional
consultation.

2

 Safe From the Start Fact Sheet – FY 2015

Public and personal safety are essential building blocks of individual success and community prosperity. For almost 15
years, Illinois has been at the forefront of one such aspect of safety: Childhood Exposure to Violence.
The financial costs of children’s exposure to violence are astronomical. The financial burden on other public systems,
including child welfare, social services, law enforcement, juvenile justice, and education is staggering when combined
with the loss of productivity over children’s lifetimes. 1
Without intervention, young children exposed to violence are at risk for cognitive delays, emotional and social difficulties
that can lead to additional victimization and later juvenile justice involvement.
Safe From the Start (SFS) programs focus on collaborating with state and community agencies to provide individual,
family and community level supports. It is a unique, multi-disciplinary, research driven and targeted intervention that
reaches urban, suburban and rural Illinois families.
In FY 15, nine SFS grantees received funding to identify, assess, and serve children (primarily ages 0-5) who have been
exposed to and traumatized by violence. Program components include direct services, collaboration and coalition
building, and public education.
In FY15, Safe From the Start grantees provided 8,598 direct service hours to 1,967 children and families. Another 33,827
individuals were impacted through trainings, community presentations and events. 23% of children were exposed to
multiple types of violence, with referrals due to domestic violence (82%), child abuse (16%), sexual abuse (6%), and
community violence (8%).

• Most children (57%) came from families with annual
household incomes of $15,000 or less.
• The average age of children identified for services was
4.7 years of age.
• 52% of children were male, while 48% were female.
• Across all sites, the average child was exposed to more
than six risk factors. Caregivers reported that the most
common risk factors for violence were parent/caregiver
distress (62%), poverty (61%), and father in jail (55%).
• Families attended on average 10-12 sessions.

Ethnicity
(self identified)

African
American
30%

Hispanic
25%

MultiRacial
11%
Asian
American
1%

Caucasian
32%

Other 1%

Impact of Violence on Children and Caregivers
The most recent evaluation report demonstrated how exposure to violence can have a detrimental impact children’s
behavioral functioning and caregiver’s levels of stress. 2 At intake:
• 36% of children were identified as at-risk for developmental delays
• 43% of children experienced significant emotional and behavioral problems: clinging behavior (46%), sleep
difficulties and night terrors (39%), and aggression towards siblings (43%), parents (38%) and peers (30%)
• 45% of caregivers experienced significant amounts of parental stress
Impact of Services
• 34% improvement in child behavior
• 26% improvement on parental stress
Listenbee, R. L., Jr., et al. 2012. Report of the Attorney General’s National Task Force on Children Exposed to Violence. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice,
Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
2 Schewe, P.A., Chehade, S., et al. (2015). Safe From the Start, Year 13 Report: 2001‐2014. Chicago, IL: Interdisciplinary Center for Research on Violence at the
University of Illinois at Chicago.
1

 Rape Crisis Services:
What They Are and How They Help

The Beginning

The Illinois Coalition Against
Sexual Assault (originally
Illinois Coalition of Women
Against Rape) was founded
to link the efforts of the first
Illinois rape crisis centers.
In the 1970s, groups of
women – some of them
rape victims – began to set
up the first 24-hour rape
crisis hotlines. These
volunteers, from all over the
state, began meeting to
share information and
resources about volunteer
training, fundraising and the fundamentals of nonprofit management. They helped each other
incorporate their organizations, secure 501(c)(3) status, write volunteer training manuals and
develop services. Recognizing the breadth of needs and the value of collaboration, these
founders established a statewide association, ICWAR, to share resources, pursue sweeping public policy changes, advocate for funding and develop service standards. The Coalition’s vision and
leadership in the establishment of services and standards made it practical for state and federal
agencies to rely on ICASA to administer funds to rape crisis centers. As funds became available,
ICASA’s recognized expertise in sexual assault services expanded to include comprehensive policies and processes for subcontracts management.

Since 1982, the Coalition has served the State of Illinois as a
funding pass-through, building a statewide network of quality
supportive services for sexual assault victims and prevention
education for communities.

State and federal agencies have turned to ICASA to expand the scope of services, define
geographic service areas and evaluate outcomes. ICASA has established and oversees
mandatory training for workers, routine monitoring of grantees, uniform records management and
systematic reporting to ensure that state and federal funds are programmed efficiently and
effectively to aid victims and prevent sexual assault. ICASA looks forward to continued
collaboration to sustain and expand the services available through its statewide network.

1

 Statewide Response

Founded in 1977, the Illinois
Coalition Against Sexual
Assault (ICASA) is a 501(c)3
nonprofit organization
comprised of a statewide
network of 29 rape crisis
centers and 29 satellite and
outreach offices. Over a 33year period, ICASA has
developed services based on
both geographic location and
population density to
guarantee access to the
maximum number of Illinois
residents. Rape crisis
centers and their offices
operate in 85 of Illinois’ 102
counties, providing service
access to 98 percent of
Illinois residents. From
Danville to Quincy, Chicago
to Carbondale, centers are
located in every population
center in the state. These
rape crisis centers serve
adults and children and the
communities they
reside in.

Rape Crisis Centers
FY 2016
Jo Daviess

Stephenson

Boone
Winnebago

Carroll

Ogle

Whiteside

Rock Island
Mercer

Henderson

Hancock
Adams

Brown
Pike
Calhoun

Menard

Cass

Morgan

Jersey

Christian

Macoupin

Monroe

LOCATED WITHIN COUNTY

Montgomery

Madison

St. Clair

CENTER

Macon

Sangamon

Scott

Greene

DeWitt

Bond

Perry

Chicago
- 3 Centers
- 4 Satellites

Will
Kankakee
Iroquois

Ford

Piatt

Champaign

Moultrie

Shelby

Edgar

Coles

Cumberland
Jasper

Clay
Wayne

Jefferson

Vermilion

Douglas

Effingham
Marion

Washington

Randolph

SATELLITE OFFICE LOCATED WITHIN COUNTY

Grundy

Fayette

Clinton

Suburban Cook
- 3 Centers
- 1 Satellite

DuPage

Kendall

McLean

Logan

Lake

Livingston

Woodford

Tazewell

Mason

Schuyler

LaSalle

Marshall

Peoria

Fulton

McDonough

DeKalb

Kane

Putnam

Stark

Knox

Warren

Lee

Bureau

Henry

McHenry

Clark

Crawford

Richland
Lawrence
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton
White
Franklin

Jackson

Saline

Williamson

Union

Johnson
Pope

Gallatin
Hardin

Alexander
Massac
COUNTY SERVED BY A CENTER
Each grantee organization is
a non-profit 501(c)(3) with a
COUNTY SERVED BY A SATELLITE OFFICE
mission of providing victimcentered rape crisis services. Each center provides a specific array of services to sexual assault
victims and communities. These services meet ICASA Service Standards which reflect best practices
in the field of sexual violence prevention and response.
Pulaski

FY15 , 29 centers and their satellite and outreach offices provided 66,950 hours of
in-person and hotline counseling and 25,758 hours of advocacy services to 9,929 victims
and their significant others. 24-hour hotline workers responded to 9,593 calls for crisis
In

680,708

intervention and information. Center staff conducted prevention education programs with
Illinoisans.

2

 Rape Crisis Center Services

Since the first 24-hour hotline was established, ICASA has worked to develop service standards
based on experience in the field, related literature and evaluation of outcomes. No matter where
they live, victims of sexual violence receive a victim-centered, trauma-focused response. All
services are provided by staff and volunteers meeting specific credentials for education, training
and supervision.
Services available at each rape crisis center include:

24-hour Hotline – Crisis intervention and advocates dispatched to aid victims at hospitals or
police departments.

24-hour Medical and Criminal Justice Advocacy – In-person support and information for
procedures. Accompaniment throughout the medical and forensic exam and reporting to law
enforcement.

Counseling – Ongoing in-person or telephone counseling for individuals, families or groups.

Prevention – Community mobilization, education programs, bystander intervention and male
engagement.

Professional Training – Skills-building to prepare medical personnel, law enforcement officers,
prosecutors, teachers, social service workers and others who may be responding to victims of
sexual violence.

Institutional Advocacy with Medical and Criminal Justice Systems – Work with institutions
to promote and ensure sensitive, effective policies and procedures for related professionals
responding to sexual assault victims.

Information and Referral – Sharing additional sources on the subject of sexual assault and
refer callers for services within the rape crisis centers as well as to other community agencies
that may be helpful.

State and Federal Funding

Since 1982, ICASA has served the State of Illinois as a funding administrator for the statewide
delivery of comprehensive rape crisis services. Beginning with $148,889 in 1982 through the
Preventive Health and Health Services Block Grant, and continuing to the FY15 budget of
$15,198,574, ICASA administers an effective and efficient system for programming state and
federal funds for community based services. The funds are primarily subcontracted to the rape
crisis centers to support 24-hour hotlines, counseling, advocacy and prevention services. A portion
of the funds support monitoring, training, technical assistance and evaluation of rape crisis centers
as well public awareness campaigns, website and other communication tools to inform victims and
communities about rape crisis services and prevention strategies.

3

 ICASA Funding History
1982
98 - Presen
se t

16,000,000

OVW/DHS IL Imagines
begins; IVPA, CFW

First SASP;
ARRA;

14,000,000
12,000,000
First DOJ
Coalitions;
Computer Prrj

10,000,000
8,000,000
6,000,000

GRF
Restoration

GRF
reduction;
VOCA
restoration

GRF
reduction;
First Special Tax
Revenue

First DCFS

4,000,000
First
PHHS-BG

First GRF; First
AG

First VAWA - RPE and
VAWA Satellite

2,000,000
-

VOCA
reduction

First VOCA

General Revenue, VOCA and VAWA

The State of Illinois first awarded General Revenue Funds to rape crisis services in 1986. The
following year, the federal Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) authorized the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority (ICJIA) to use VOCA funds for victim services, which included counseling
and advocacy for rape victims. ICJIA contracted with ICASA for this welcome expansion of
counseling and advocacy services.

With the 1994 passage of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), the Office on Violence
Against Women (OVW) spearheaded funding to the states. VAWA S.T.O.P. funds were awarded
to Illinois and appropriated to ICJIA. As the state administrator, ICJIA conducted planning through
the Ad Hoc Victim Services Committee for the allocation of these funds. ICJIA and ICASA agreed
to use VAWA S.T.O.P. funds to establish satellite offices of current rape crisis centers in areas
that were unserved or underserved by sexual assault services. Through a competitive allocation
process, ICASA selected 15 satellite projects to serve rural areas, African-American and Latino
neighborhoods in Chicago/Cook and the LGBT community in Chicago.

Rape Prevention Education (RPE), an original component of VAWA and administered by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Illinois Department of Public Health, is the
cornerstone of prevention strategies in Illinois. The Sexual Assault Services Project (SASP)
added funding to 2010 VAWA, specifically for advocacy and counseling services statewide.

4

 In their own words ...

“I’m less depressed and I’m not
getting into much trouble at school anymore.”
12-year-old survivor
Glendale Heights, IL

Rape Crisis Centers in Illinois

m Arlington Heights - Northwest Center Against Sexual Assault
m Aurora - Mutual Ground, Inc.
m Belleville - Call for Help, Inc.
m Bloomington - Stepping Stones Sexual Assault Services, YWCA of McLean County
m Carbondale - Rape Crisis Services of the Women’s Center, Inc.
m Charleston - Sexual Assault Counseling and Information Service
m Chicago - YWCA Metropolitan Chicago Sexual Violence and Support Services
m Chicago - Rape Victim Advocates
m Chicago - Mujeres Latinas En Accion
m Danville - Vermillion County Rape Crisis Center
m Decatur - Growing Strong Sexual Assault Center
m DeKalb - Safe Passage, Inc.
m Elgin - Community Crisis Center
m Freeport - VOICES
m Galena - Riverview Center
m Hickory Hills - The Pillars Community Services
m Joliet - Sexual Assault Service Center, Guardian Angel Community Services
m Kankakee - Kankakee County Center Against Sexual Assault
m Macomb - WIRC/CAA Victim Services
m Peoria - Center for Prevention of Abuse
m Princeton - Freedom House, Inc.
m Quad Cities - Rape/Sexual Assault Program, Family Resources, Inc.
m Quincy - Quanada Sexual Assault Program
m Rockford - Rockford Sexual Assault Counseling, Inc.
m Springfield - Prairie Center Against Sexual Assault
m Sterling - YWCA of the Sauk Valley
m Streator - ADV & SAS
m Urbana - Rape, Advocacy, Counseling and Education Services
m Vandalia - Sexual Assault and Family Emergencies

5

 One Mission, One Voice

ORGANIZATION HISTORY & DESCRIPTION
ICADV was founded in January 1978 when representatives from twelve domestic violence
organizations met to plan a unified request for funding through the Governor’s Donated Fund
Initiative. ICADV incorporated in September 1978.
In 1978, the majority of women and children in Illinois had no safe place to go, little or no legal
protection, and no one to talk with who understood the fear and pain. Most victims stayed in
the home because there were no options. Many were killed. The grass roots efforts of those
twelve small Illinois community groups that recognized the unmet need for services to battered
women formed the Coalition. The goals of the coalition founders were to:
• provide safe places for women and children
• explain options to victims/survivors
• secure ongoing funding
• seek passage of protective legislation
• train domestic violence staff and volunteers
• educate the public about the issue
Now, ICADV has 52 domestic violence member programs across the state. Through a collective
effort, the landmark Illinois Domestic Violence Act was passed in 1982 and was strengthened in
1986. Ongoing information is provided to the criminal justice and law enforcement agencies,
hospitals, other social service agencies and the general public. In spite of all of these
accomplishments, each month more than 1,200 women and children are turned away from
programs due to the lack of space and an inadequate number of staff.
Through its 52 member programs, ICADV has developed a network of community organizations,
businesses and individuals, working together to end domestic violence. Many of the domestic
violence programs around the State of Illinois have networking agreements with local clergy,
police, social workers, schools, social service agencies, and criminal justice system personnel.
Membership is now extended to Community Partners and individuals.
At this writing there are approximately 66 total domestic violence programs in the state that
receive funding from IDHS. ICADV’s 52 member programs are a part of the 66 programs.
From 1980 until SFY1992, ICADV contracted with the state of Illinois through the Department of
Public Aid and then the Department of Human Services(DHS) to provide advocacy, training and
technical assistance to local agencies and other professionals interacting with domestic
violence victims and their dependents. Through these annual contracts ICADV also provided
funds to support the community based crisis interventions services to victims and their
EMPOWERING WOMEN. EXPANDING AWARENESS. ERADICATING VIOLENCE.

ICADV ~ 801 South Eleventh Street ~ Springfield, IL 62703
www.ilcadv.org ~ ilcadv@ilcadv.org ~ phone: 217-789-2830 ~ fax: 217-789-1939 ~ TTY: 217-241-0376

 dependents. Since SFY 1993, the DHS has contracted directly with the community based
agencies.
Beginning in SFY 1986, ICADV also began contracting with the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority (ICJIA) to provide monitoring and technical assistance to community
based agencies to provide legal advocacy and child witness services to domestic violence
victims and their dependents. ICADV currently allocates over $4 million federal Victims of
Crime Act funds for these services. Beginning in SFY 1996, ICADV also allocates over $3 million
of Violence Against Women Act STOP funds to victims services through a contract with ICJIA.
ICADV continues to work in close concert with its state government allies to increase adequate
safety and services to victims in crisis.

EMPOWERING WOMEN. EXPANDING AWARENESS. ERADICATING VIOLENCE.

ICADV ~ 801 South Eleventh Street ~ Springfield, IL 62703
www.ilcadv.org ~ ilcadv@ilcadv.org ~ phone: 217-789-2830 ~ fax: 217-789-1939 ~ TTY: 217-241-0376

     
     

ICADV
Member

- Main site of
member agency

County shared by
I more than one agency

