MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Wednesday, December 16 2015 at 9:01 a.m.
300 West Adams Street, 2nd Floor Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois

I. Roll Call
Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the December 16, 2015
quarterly Board Meeting of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information authority. She
called the meeting to order and asked General Counsel Lisa Stephens to call the roll.
In addition to Chair Robb, Authority Board Members in attendance were:
State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Director John Baldwin (arrived after roll call)
Clerk Dorothy Brown (arrived after roll call)
Director Patrick Delfino
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Ms. Cindy Hora
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael Pelletier
Director Leo Schmitz (arrived after roll call)
Ms. Paul Wolff
Ms. Stephens stated that at the beginning of the meeting there was not a quorum.
II. Approval of Minutes of September 11, 2015 Board Meeting
Chair Robb noted that the September 11, 2015 Board meeting minutes are not ready to be
read and voted on, so this will be deferred to the next Board meeting.

III. Public Comment
Chair Robb then opened the meeting to public comment. In response, an attendee
identified herself as Queen Sister, saying that she represents “It Takes A Village
Organization”. She expressed frustration that the Authority has not responded to her

1

 proposal for $500,000 to support her agency’s Project Safe Neighborhoods project. It is
an “at-risk resident, child protection, community awareness, and public safety initiative”.
Chair Robb asked if there were any other members of the public wishing to speak and
heard none.
IV. Approval of the Authority’s Guiding Principles
Chair Robb then proceeded to the next item on the agenda by asking Mr. Maki and Ms.
Wolff to present the attached Guiding Principles. Mr. Maki explained that the Strategic
Opportunities Committee chaired by Paula Wolff revised the Authority’s Grant making
Principles and now has developed Guiding Principles included in the Board’s materials.
Mr. Maki explained the Guiding Principles help the Authority envision what the
Authority grants should achieve. Mr. Maki shared excitement regarding the Principles
stating that many State Administering Agencies (SAA), like ICJIA, typically do not put
these kinds of principles in front of their grant-making. He then asked the Strategic
Opportunities Committee (Committee) Chair, Ms. Paula Wolff, if she had anything else
to add. Ms. Wolff noted the document in member’s materials and explained that the
Committee members developed and discussed the Principles two or three times. The
intended outcome is that the members are in agreement about the fundamental values or
principles under which we operate.
In response to Chair Robb’s request for additional comments, Ms. Hora explained that
she understood these Principles to only apply to the JAG funds. She stated that if they are
to apply to all funds, such as VOCA and VAWA, then more language regarding victim’s
right should be added. Ms. Wolff stated that she is comfortable going back to the
Committee for additional input. Chair Robb agreed and added that since there is no
quorum no voting could occur today anyways. She asked the members to take another
look at the Guiding Principles before the next Strategic Opportunities Committee and the
revised document can be brought to the March board meeting.
V. Chairman’s Remarks
Chair Robb took this opportunity to reiterate her thanks to all the Board members for
their appearance today and for their work on the two committees, Budget Committee and
the Strategic Opportunities Committee. In addition, the new Board members attended an
orientation several weeks ago. Chair Robb also attended and found it to be extremely
helpful. Now there is a procedure in place with orientation materials available for all
Board members, new and long term members. Chair Robb also thanked Mr. Maki and
staff involved in the Governor’s Sentence and Reform Commission. After this, she
moved on to the next agenda item, turning the meeting over to Executive Director John
Maki.
VI. Executive Director’s Remarks
Mr. Maki began his remarks by thanking Chair Robb for her fine work. He then notified
the Board that Lisa Stephens, General Counsel, will be leaving state government to take

2

 on a new job as the Chief Operating Officer of a new program addressing gun violence in
Chicago. Mr. Maki conveyed his sincere appreciation for Ms. Stephens’ indispensable
assistance, stewardship of her office and her assistance in leading the agency. Ms.
Stephens’ thanked Mr. Maki.
Mr. Maki also updated the Board on the Reform Commission. There will be two reports.
The first one will come out on December 31, 2015. Mr. Maki explained that he, Dr.
Alderden and research staff have put many, many hours into this. He looks forward to
hearing feedback and believes it will produce good results.
Mr. Maki shared that in November the Authority, in partnership with the City of Peoria
and the US Attorney’s Office-Central District, hosted a conference for mid-level
jurisdictions with high level gun violence to learn about various strategies, both local and
national, that address violent crime. Several Board members attended and the feedback
was very positive.
In addition, Mr. Maki stated it there is still no state budget which has been very difficult.
Staff members have been in close contact with state grantees. These grantees have been
operating day-to-day. Mr. Maki explained how the Authority has been involved in
developing outcomes for the State public safety agencies. This process will move from an
input based approach to one that is outcome-oriented. Dr. Alderden has been working
with the public safety agencies to help their staff develop new outcomes. He also stated
that he was recently appointed to the Budgeting For Results Commission which will be
revising the current Budgeting For Results Metrics. Finally, Mr. Maki thanked the
panelists in attendance today.
Chairman Robb stated that with the arrival of Clerk Brown and Director Schmitz a
quorum has been established.
VII. Authority Financial Report
Mr. Kurtz provided summary level information regarding the Authority’s finances,
stating that additional financial information can be added but this is the information
chosen to share today. Mr. Kurtz summarized that to date this fiscal year the Authority
has made approximately $10 million in grants with total expenditures through the first
five months of the fiscal year at $14 million. These are federal grants as there is no state
budget authorizing expenditure of state funds. 90 % of the federal programs are the three
main federal programs: Victims Of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) and Justice Assistance Grants (JAG). Pursuant to VOCA, the Authority
received the FFY 15 Award totaling 77.6 million. Mr. Kurtz explained that this is a
substantially larger than prior three year awards. There is an ad hoc committee that will
meet early in the new year to begin the planning process for these funds.
Mr. Kurtz went on to explain other fiscal matters including that the agency’s payroll
remains fully funded and other state grants and expenses are unappropriated. While SB
2042 allows for the federal programs to continue and pay some expenses, every month

3

 that goes by without a state budget it becomes a little more challenging. Finally, Mr.
Kurtz referred to a series of detailed presentations regarding the Authority’s grants which
will be made available and have been very helpful to Board members.
VIII. Committee Reports
Chair Robb asked Mr. Hora if there were any Budget Committee updates. Ms. Hora
stated that the committee met twice in which grants were approved using the Justice
Assistance Grant, Violence Against Women Act STOP funds, National Forensic Science
Improvement Act funds, the Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act funds and well
as the Violence Against Women Act Services fund. Future Budget Committee meetings
will be scheduled in advance so members can reserve the date and time on their
calendars. These meetings can then be canceled if not needed.
Chair Robb then asked Ms. Wolff if there were any Strategic Opportunities Committee
(Committee) updates. Ms. Wolff summarized that the Committee has met twice and has
appreciated the input from the members that were able to attend. Ms. Wolff shared that
the staff provided great helpful information regarding funding sources, how and where
they are spent. She encouraged Board members to access the minutes and presentation
materials as she found them very helpful. Ms. Wolff went on to explain that, as was
mentioned discussed earlier in this meeting, the Committee developed three different
levels of principles: the procedural or Grant making principles passed at the last Board
meeting; the fundamental or Guiding Principles that will be revise and brought back to
the Board in March; and finally the Committee is currently developing goals for the
specific JAG priorities. Committee members have also shared various stakeholder groups
to obtain feedback regarding these goals.
Mr. Maki ended this portion of the meeting by reminding Board members that while they
were assigned to specific meetings to the purposes of quorum, all are welcome at all
committee meetings.
Mr. Maki welcomed Director Baldwin and invited him to introduce himself to the Board
as this is his first in person meeting. Director Baldwin shared that he is honored to be
here in Illinois. He recently retired from the Iowa Department of Corrections after 42
years where he began his career in the Iowa Forensic Psychiatric Hospital. He was the
Director of the Iowa Department of Corrections for 8 years and Acting Director for 3
years prior to that. Director Baldwin plans to address Illinois’ high recidivism rate and
other needed improvements. He ended his introduction by stating how impressed he has
been with the Illinois DOC staff and how helpful many of the other key state agency staff
have been. Chair Robb thanked Director Baldwin and directed the meeting to the next
agenda item.

4

 IX. Presentation and Panel Discussion
Mr. Maki explained that, in addition to business items, he hopes to present a high-level
issue for discussion at every Board meeting. He plans to bring research and experts to
discuss important topics with the Board that will inform the agency’s research, grant
making and policy work. He then turned the agenda item over to Dr. Alderden and her
staff.
Dr. Alderden informed the members that her staff, Jennifer Hiselman will provide
victimization data and then she will ask the panelists questions with the goal of having a
rich discussion so Board members should feel comfortable asking questions as well.
Then Ms. Hiselman presented victimization prevalence, both lifetime and last year
nationally and within Illinois. She also presented the current research and best practices
on the impact of victimization. In response to a question from the public, Ms. Hiselman
stated that yes the slides will be made available.
Dr. Alderden then asked the panelists to share their thoughts on the presentation. The five
panelists thanked everyone for the opportunity to speak today. The speakers addressed a
number of issues. In summary, the speakers identified the need for community and victim
input; challenges victims face when accessing services; the need to increased services
across the state and the impact of violence on brain development and behavior. Dr.
Alderden asked the panelists for their ideas regarding needed improvements in the
response for victims. The panelists touched on the need for cross system collaboration
and multi-disciplinary teams; the importance of understanding and addressing criminal
justice system staff biases and how systems should adapt to how victims respond to the
victimization immediately after and over the life span. Mr. Maki engaged Board
members and the panelists in a few questions and then thanked the panelists and
community members for their attendance today.

X. Adjourn
Chair Robb asked if there was any old business. Hearing none, Chair Robb wished
everyone a happy holiday season. Clerk Josh made a motion to adjourn the meeting. The
meeting was adjourned at 11:34 am.

5

 