ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 7938550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board
Meeting Minutes
June 1, 2017, 3:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

I. Call to Order
Era Laudermilk called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m. ICJIA Associate General Counsel Simeon
Kim called the roll.
II. Roll Call
Member Name
Dr. Rachel Johnston, Chair
Executive Director John Maki, ICJIA
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak

Present

Absent
X

By Telephone

X
X
X
X
X
X

Five members were present in person and a quorum was established. Dr. Long arrived at
approximately 3:10 pm.
III. Approval of Meeting Minutes: February 16, 2017
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Mr. Maki moved to approve the
minutes. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
IV. Applications for Review
1. Full IRB applications
a. Study of Police-Led Referrals to Treatment Initiatives in Illinois
Principle investigator: Jessica Reichert
Page   1

 Ms. Reichert said researchers will survey and interview police agency staff about police-led
substance use disorder diversion initiatives operating in Illinois. She said the purpose is to
learn more about the characteristics and implementation issues of these initiatives. She said
the initiatives are new, but growing across the country, and more information is needed to
understand how they operate, ways in which they differ, and the challenges and successes
of these initiatives to inform other police agencies interested in implementing similar
initiatives.
Ms. Szilak asked if it would be 10 departments. Ms. Reichert stated that it would be mostly
police chiefs or sheriffs. Ms. Laudermilk asked if there is a survey portion and an interview
component. Ms. Reichert said yes.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the application. Mr. Maki moved to
approve the application. Ms. Szilak seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
b. Outcome Evaluation of the Safe Passage Initiative
Principle investigator – Ms. Reichert
Ms. Reichert said data will be collected and analyzed for an evaluation of the police-led
substance use disorder treatment initiative (or diversion initiative) called Safe Passage,
operating in Lee, Whiteside, and Livingston counties. The outcome evaluation will analyze
administrative program data, including client treatment records, and data collected through
a pre- and post-test survey.
Dr. Cooper asked about the linking mechanism to clarify that information is stored
separately. Ms. Reichert stated that there was going to be a key that would have identifiers,
and she would remove the key.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the application. Mr. Maki moved to approve
the application. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
2. Renewal application.
a. Evaluation of the Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council’s Protocol Training
Principle investigator – Dr. Lynne Mock
Dr. Mock said the purpose of the study is to evaluate the Illinois Family Violence
Coordinating Council’s (IFVCC) training on model protocols and mini-tool kits for
assisting victims of domestic violence, elder abuse, and abuse of persons with disabilities.
The evaluation will inform efforts to enhance the program and document progress toward
its goals.

Page   2

 She said the renewal was requested to continue data collection through September 30,
2017, to complete a report for the Office for Violence Against Women, which is supporting
the evaluation.
She said amendments included a pre/post-test for the mini-tool kits and changes in the
types and number of participants.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the application. Dr. Cooper moved to
approve the application. Mr. Maki seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous
voice vote.
V. Old business
None.
VI. New Business
1. Expedited applications:
a. Evaluation of Illinois Bullying Prevention Programs – Year 1 & 2 (Dr. Mock)
b. Study of the Impact of Legal Debts (Lily Gleicher)
c. Process and Outcome Evaluation of Illinois Drug Task Forces (J. Reichert)
2. Ms. Reichert said she would like to hold a brief IRB meeting for a new study before the
August meeting.
VII. Adjourn
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to adjourn. Mr. Maki moved to adjourn. Dr. Cooper seconded
the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote at 3:15 p.m.

Page   3

 