ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

1. MINUTES OF PRIOR BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
January 30, 2015
10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams
Main Building Conference Room – 2nd Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Budget Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority met on
Friday, January 30, 2015, at 300 West Adams, Main Building Conference Room - 2nd
Floor, Chicago, Illinois. Authority / Budget Committee Vice Chair designee Jennifer
Greene called the meeting to order at 10:03 a.m. Authority General Counsel Lisa
Stephens called the roll. Other Authority members and designees present were Patricia
McCreary for Clerk Dorothy Brown, Daynia Sanchez-Bass for Hon. Abishi Cunningham,
Kathryn Dunne for Sheriff Tom Dart, Rick Krause for Director S. A. Godinez, Felix
Gonzalez, Lt. Col. James Winters for Director Hiram Grau, John Harvey, Lisa Jacobs,
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Madigan, Lanetta Haynes Turner for President Toni
Preckwinkle, and Angela Rudolph. Also in attendance were Authority Associate Director
Wendy McCambridge, Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt, Authority Special
Projects Manager Mike Carter, Authority Program Supervisor Reshma Desai, Authority
Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council Director Mary Ratliff (via
teleconference), Chicago Department of Public Health Director of Violence Prevention
Marlita White, Chicago Department of Public Health First Deputy Commissioner Joe
Hollendoner, and other Authority staff members and guests.

 Executive Director’s Remarks
Director Maki said that he was the first Authority Executive Director who had also been
an Authority Board member. He said that he was thrilled to be in his new position. He
said that one of his goals for the Authority was to make better use of its board; he said
that he wants it to be more issue-driven. The Authority’s board is the embodiment of the
justice system and its leaders should be asked to lead. The board should think about how
it makes the most effective use of its time as an oversight board, particularly given the
state’s precarious finances. He said that pursuant to Executive Order 15-08, which froze
spending on state grants, staff is working with the Governor’s Office of Management and
Budget (GOMB) to comply with the order and to identify essential expenditures and that
the budgetary situation was very fluid at this time.

1. Minutes of the December 5, 2014 Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Hora called for a motion to approve the minutes of the December 5, 2014
Budget Committee meeting. Mr. Gonzalez seconded the motion.
Ms. Jacobs and Ms. Sanchez-Bass requested that their names be added to the list of
attendees on Page 1 of the minutes.
Ms. Hora corrected the text of the second sentence of the fifth full paragraph on Page 9 of
the minutes. She said that it should read (correction in italics):
“They provide support to organizations that write grants and provide fiscal support
and information for other grant use across the state.”
Ms. Hora corrected the text of the third sentence of the fifth full paragraph on Page 10 of
the minutes. She said that it should read (correction in italics):
“We need a holistic view of what these services and training actually do.”
The motion was approved by unanimous voice vote.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 2

 2. Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) FFY10 and FFY12 Plan Adjustments
Designation Reductions
Associate Director McCambridge, referring to the memo in the materials dated January
30, 2015 and regarding the FFY10 and FFY12 JAG Plan Adjustments, said that a total of
$245,342 in FFY10 funds had recently been returned to the Authority, as indicated by the
chart on Pages 1 and 2 of the memo.
Recommended Designations
Addison Police Department - DuPage County Judicial Information System
Associate Director McCambridge said that staff recommended designating $87,676 in
FFY10 funds to the Addison Police Department to support the DuPage County Judicial
Information System (DCJIS). She said that this program was first introduced last year.
The Village of Addison was spearheading an effort to upgrade the DCJIS. The village
sought a project manager for this job. The request-for-proposals (RFP) process took
longer than expected. When the RFP was issued, the market cost for the project was
unknown, so only $125,000.00 was requested. This designation of $87,676 would
supplement the existing funding designated for this project so that the village can engage
the winning RFP bidder. The program’s goals and objectives have not changed. This is
simply a request for additional funding.
Authority Special Projects Manager Mike Carter, in response to a question by Mr.
Gonzalez, said that the purpose of this project is to create a vertical information sharing
environment for the entire county. There are several phases to this project:
1) Planning governance – bringing together the county’s criminal justice & public
safety agencies and units of government to develop a strategy creating a countywide
information sharing environment. The strategy prioritized bringing together the
county’s 33 law enforcement agencies with the goal of creating a unified Records
Management System (RMS). Approximately 30 of the 33 agencies agreed to move
forward. The countywide RMS will be capable of forwarding essential data to county
agencies such as prosecution, defense, circuit court clerk, and the jail. A project
manager was hired to lead the future process.
2) Issue an RFP for an RMS. That was done in January 2015. The RMS development
will likely be completed in 2016.
3) Work to integrate the county agencies so they are capable of receiving the RMS
data and working to a virtually paperless system.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 3

 4) Develop the standardized exchange that will deliver data directly to the Illinois
Department of Corrections (IDOC).
Mr. Carter said that this is a massive project that should take about three years to
complete.
Associate Director McCambridge said that the Village of Addison requested a waiver of
the matching funds requirement.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority – Strategic Planning
Associate Director McCambridge said that staff recommended designating $2,221 in
FFY10 funds to the Authority to support strategic planning for the Illinois Family
Violence Coordinating Councils (IFVCC). There are 23 separate councils throughout
Illinois representing all of the circuits of the courts. The IFVCCs have existed for over 14
years. The purpose of the IFVCCs is to establish a forum to improve the institutional,
professional and community response to family violence including child abuse, domestic
abuse, and elder abuse; to engage in education and prevention; the coordination of
intervention and services for victims and perpetrators; and, to contribute to the
improvement of the legal system and the administration of justice. Each council is led by
a chief judge. Illinois is the only state that has such a program led by a state agency. The
goal of a strategic planning meeting is to bring IFVCC stakeholders from across the state
together to in order to develop a statewide strategic plan, including:
• A vision statement,
• A mission statement,
• Clear objectives,
• Viable strategies,
• And action plans to implement those strategies.
Associate Director McCambridge said that a strategic planning meeting would be
planned for May or June of 2015. The Authority’s Research and Analysis Department
would lead a strategic planning process that will fit the needs and goals of the program
over the coming years.
Mr. Harvey asked if this request was in some way in response to past Budget Committee
discussions and, thus, an effort to get everybody to use protocols.
IFVCC Director Mary Ratliff said that the protocols and protocol training are in use
throughout Illinois. The Authority’s Violence Against Women Act Arrest (VAWA A)
program supports an evaluation of the protocols over the last three years that seeks to
identify a future path for the protocols. It has been a long time since the IFVCCs have

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 4

 met to formulate a strategic plan. Since the VAWA A funding has been continued, now is
a good time to come together to identify gaps in the system and work to fill those gaps.
Mr. Harvey asked if documentation was being collected regarding current protocol use by
each IFVCC.
Ms. Ratliff said that the IFVCCs have been working with the Authority’s Research and
Analysis Unit (R&A) to develop an implementation evaluation plan and an evaluation of
the protocol trainings that are happening now and for at least the next three years. This
evaluation will guide further training.
Associate Director McCambridge, in response to a question by Ms. Rudolph, said that
facilitation would be provided by R&A staff.
Ms. Hora asked if a synopsis or executive summary would be made available.
Associate Director McCambridge said that such information would be made available to
the Authority Board. She said that there is also information relating to the IFVCCs on the
Authority’s website.
Designation Reallocation
Be Well Partners in Health - Mental Health Discharge Coordination
Associate Director McCambridge said that this designation had originally been made to
the Cook County Sheriff’s Office (CCSO), but they have since requested that this
designation be made directly to their programming partner, Be Well Partners in Health.
She said that there would be no changes to the program itself.
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to approve the JAG FFY10 and FFY12 plan adjustments. The
motion was seconded by Ms. Rudolph and approved by unanimous voice vote, with an
abstention by Ms. Dunne with regard to the CCSO line item.

3. Death Penalty Abolition Funds (DPA)
Authority Program Manager Reshma Desai, referring to the memo in the materials dated
January 30, 2015 and regarding the Death Penalty Abolition Funds (DPA), said that the
DPA was created in 2011. One of the charges of the fund was for the Authority to
implement services for family members of homicide victims. The Authority convened an
advisory group that developed a pilot project in Cook County. A request-for-proposals
was issued and The Association for Individual Development (AID) was selected to

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 5

 receive grant funding. AID works in suburban Cook County to provide services for
family members of homicide victims. Parallel to this work the City of Chicago received a
grant from the federal Department of Justice (DOJ) to develop a similar system called the
Crisis Response and Recovery System which would serve family members of homicide
victims within Chicago in six police districts during the pilot period.
Recommended Designations
City of Chicago’s Department of Public Health - Crisis Response and Recovery Program
Training
Ms. Desai said that staff recommends designating $197,264 in SFY15 DPA funds to the
City of Chicago’s Department of Public Health (CDPH) to support the Crisis Response
and Recovery Program Training program. This two-year grant would allow the CDPH to
develop a unified protocol. This would train crisis response, recovery providers, court
officers and personnel, and mental health and social service agencies to implement the
protocol. These funds would primarily support a coordinator to develop the protocol and
implement the training. She described further program and budget details in the Grant
Recommendation Report. She noted a typographical error in the Year 2 budget; the
equipment line item should indicate $1,045 – this did not affect the Year 2 total.
Ms. Hora asked if, while this protocol would be unique to Chicago and Cook County,
there would be portions of the protocol that other communities and counties could use.
Ms. Desai said that there is a planning process underway that prioritizes other areas of the
state that have high homicide rates. Staff is meeting with people in the St. Clair and
Madison County area and the Winnebago through Lake County area in an effort to
convene the local stakeholders. One major aspect to this program is that law enforcement
and state’s attorneys need to be on-board. Once sufficient interest is generated, RFPs will
be let for those areas. Whatever aspects of the existing protocols or training that can be
duplicated elsewhere will be duplicated.
Mr. Carter said that Ms. Desai had done a lot of work identifying the priority locations in
the state where this program should be rolled out. Those multi-county regions are:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Lake – Winnebago and northern border counties region.
St. Clair region.
Peoria region.
Champaign region.
Sangamon region.
DuPage, Will, and Kankakee region.
Rock Island region.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 6

 Ms. Rudolph asked how the police districts were identified.
CDPH Director of Violence Prevention Marlita White said that six police districts were
identified as representing a combination of factors such as high crime and homicide rates.
CDPH staff felt that it was important to build this program in different communities
throughout the city. This way, the training products and the individuals who the program
needed to engage Chicago’s various demographic communities; there was a conscious
effort to avoid serving only the African-American community.
Ms. Rudolph asked for details regarding the potential long-term vision regarding any
public-awareness campaigns or community partner outreach. When something happens,
people are usually caught up in the moment and do not recognize the need to seek
services. There has been a push to try to reach people immediately. How is this being
addressed?
Ms. White said that the program has two phases:
1) Crisis Response – CDPH will work with its vendor to administer training and
ensure that the protocols have appropriate dispatch systems so that information about
homicides can be relayed to the response team so that they can be on-site in a timely
fashion.
2) Recovery Component – CDPH knows that its crisis responders need to be nimble
so as not to be tied up with a single family for too long a period of time. The program
is designed so that two or three days after the immediate support and stabilization of
the family, those families are handed off to a family support specialist. This usually
happens before the funeral, for example. That specialist stays with that family
throughout that experience and assists in bereavement and grief recovery activities
and helps them navigate the maze of paperwork to ensure that they have a functional
and effective relationship with law enforcement so that the investigation is not
hampered by the family’s needs to grieve and disconnect.
Ms. Rudolph asked if there was any potential for research relating to this program.
Ms. White said that the agreement that CDPH has with the DOJ includes an expectation
of an evaluation. Electronic case management records are being built and longer-term
evaluation relationships are being identified so that this can be a model for Chicago and
contribute to the knowledge of what works and what doesn’t work.
Ms. Jacobs said that Cook County, via a non-profit partner, has recently received a grant
to use Cook County / Stroger Hospital as a leverage point to work with survivors of
violent crime, particularly gun violence with a violence reduction and prevention goal

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 7

 based on data that survivors and victims of gun violence have themselves much higher
rates of also becoming victims or perpetrators. Immediate crisis response, immediate
medical response, and follow-up are critical.
Ms. Desai said that in relation to the DOJ grant and the work being done in suburban
Cook County, staff is working with the CDPH to establish data fields that will be parallel
for both programs. The next step is to develop an evaluation plan.
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office - Homicide Response Liaison
Ms. Desai said that staff recommends designating $93,460.41in SFY15 DPA funds to the
Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office (CCSAO) to support its Homicide Response
Liaison (HRL) program. The HRL position is necessary to coordinate services and
facilitate confidential communications between CCSAO and external agency agencies,
law enforcement, and family and community members. The HRL would also work
internally with staff and victims and witnesses. The HRL will carry a small case-load
consisting of more complicated cases; for example, instances where charges were not
filed immediately. She described further program and budget details in the Grant
Recommendation Report.
Mr. Harvey asked what experience and credentials would be required for this position.
Ms. Greene said that the budgeted total was a high estimate and included salary and
fringe benefits. The estimate was high because it is not possible to know exactly what the
fringe benefits costs would be until an individual is hired. This would be a master’s
degree level position. Law enforcement usually wants prosecution’s buy-in on a project
like this; law enforcement wants to know how prosecution feels about an advocate at the
front end and how confidential information will be handled. This project will eventually
go statewide via the Illinois State’s Attorney’s Association. The idea is to get families
involved at an earlier stage in the court proceedings.
Associate Director McCambridge said that the execution of these grants, assuming
designation approval by the Budget Committee, is dependent on approval by the
Governor’s Office of Management and Budget (GOMB) pursuant to Executive Order 1508. By making these designations now, staff can process them as soon as they are cleared
by GOMB.
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to approve the recommended DPA SFY15 designations. The
motion was seconded by Ms. Sanchez-Bass and approved by unanimous voice vote, with
an abstention by Ms. Greene with regard to the CCSAO line item.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 8

 4. Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act (RSAT) FFY11 Plan Adjustment
Associate Director McCambridge, referring to the memo in the materials dated January
30, 2015 and regarding the FFY11 RSAT Plan Adjustment, said that at the August 6,
2014 Budget Committee meeting $54,337 in FFY11 RSAT local set-aside funds was
designated to Franklin County to support its Juvenile Methamphetamine Transitional
Aftercare Program. To ease administrative burdens, the program has requested that the
implementing agency for this designation be changed from Franklin County to the
Second Judicial Circuit. There will be no changes to the actual program.
Ms. Hora said that when we consider clothing, toiletries, gas cards, gift cards, etc. there
should be something in place to track their use because of the potential for abuse.
Associate Director McCambridge said that such language could be worked into future
contracts.
Mr. Harvey said that the Mental Health Criminal Justice project has protocols relating to
the use of grant funds.
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to approve the recommended RSAT FFY11 designations. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Harvey and approved by unanimous voice vote.

5. Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) FFY10, FFY11, and FFY12 Plan
Adjustments and the FFY14 Plan Introduction
Designation Reductions
Associate Director McCambridge, referring to the memo in the materials dated January
30, 2015 and regarding the VAWA FFY10, FFY11, and FFY12 Plan Adjustments and
the FFY14 Plan Introduction, called attention to the chart on Pages 1 and 2 of the memo
describing FFY10, FFY11, and FFY12 funds recently returned to the Authority.
FFY14 Plan Introduction
Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said that The FFY14 VAWA award to
Illinois is $4,960,602. In accordance with VAWA regulations, these funds are split into
five different pots. After setting aside ten percent of the award ($496,060) for
administrative purposes, 25 percent of the funds must go to law enforcement, 25 percent
to prosecution, 30 percent to service providers, and five percent to the courts. The

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 9

 remaining 15 percent can be allocated at the state’s discretion amongst the other
identified disciplines.
Recommended Designations
Domestic Violence / Sexual Assault Services - Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence (ICADV) and Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA)
Mr. Reichgelt said that historically, the Authority has split its Service Provider funds
between ICASA and the ICADV in equal amounts as a pass-through. These funds serve
underserved areas or victim groups throughout Illinois. ICASA uses these funds to
support satellite rape crisis services in counties where other services do not exist. ICADV
uses these funds to serve underserved populations, such as the Latina community, people
with substance abuse issues, the hearing impaired, etc. He said that staff recommends
designating FFY14 Service Provider funds in the amount of $669,681 to both ICASA and
ICADV.
Targeted Abuser Call (TAC) Program – Life Span
Mr. Reichgelt said this program has been funded as a partnership with the CCSAO
through the Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) as a discretionary grant for
several years. The program has not been funded for two years. The Authority has picked
up the victim services portion of this program, and so staff recommends a designation of
$81,474 in FFY11 funds to Life Span.
Ms. Hora asked, given that this is a multi-disciplinary approach, what other personnel
would be involved.
Ms. Greene said that the TAC program is a multi-disciplinary team that addresses highrisk cases coming into the domestic violence court. It is a homicide prevention program.
The team is made up of specially trained law enforcement investigator, a victim witness
assistant, a prosecutor, and Life Span provides a domestic violence advocate and a civil
legal attorney, who is not supported with these grant funds, that provides civil legal
remedies for victims of domestic violence for things such as child support issues, custody
issues, divorce issues, etc. TAC is a wrap-around approach that comes together at the
very beginning to encourage participation and meet other need outside of court.
Ms. Greene, in response to a question by Ms. Hora, said that social services and
probation are also parts of the multi-disciplinary team. They participate in monthly
meetings at the managerial level and they monitor the compliance component of the TAC
program.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 10

 Ms. Hora asked if this is a one-time bridge grant that has been funded in the past by
another source, what equipment would need to be purchased?
Mr. Reichgelt said that other than advocacy, he was not aware of any equipment other
than whatever the advocates might need, such as a laptop to use while outside of the
office. Under the new regulations, that might even fall under commodities. This is a onetime grant because there is an expectation that TAC will receive future funding from
OVW. This program is compliant with the recommendations made by the Victim
Services Ad Hoc Committee at its 2013 meeting regarding the expansion of civil legal
services. This grant would have a start date of January 1, 2015.
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to approve the recommended VAWA FFY10, FFY11, and
FFY12 Plan Adjustments and the FFY14 Plan Introduction. The motion was seconded by
Mr. Gonzalez and approved by unanimous voice vote, with an abstention by Ms. Greene
with regard to the Life Span line item.

6. Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) FFY11, FFY12, and FFY13 Plan Adjustments
Designation Reductions
Associate Director McCambridge, referring to the memo in the materials dated January
30, 2015 and regarding the VOCA FFY11, FFY12, and FFY13 Plan Adjustments,
described FFY11 funds recently returned to the Authority and called attention to the chart
on Pages 1 and 2 of the memo describing FFY12 and FFY13 funds recently returned to
the Authority.
Ms. Hora, citing the description of funds returned by the Kankakee Police Department for
its Law Enforcement/Prosecution-based Victim Assistance Services program that ended
on April 30, 2014, asked if the Kankakee Police Department simply no longer wanted to
participate in the program or if there was another issue.
Mr. Reichgelt said that he thought that the Kankakee Police Department will keep the
program, but has found another funding source. He said that he hoped other counties and
municipalities would use these funds as seed money, as was the case here.
Recommended Designation
Services to Chicago Victims of Violent Crime – Between Friends
Mr. Reichgelt said that this program had previously been run by the Roger’s Park
Community Council (RPCC). The program itself is operated through the City of

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 11

 Chicago’s Department of Family Support Services and it is called Resource Information
Advocates (RIA). The program activity takes place at the domestic violence court.
Domestic violence agencies throughout Chicago provide advocates to be at the
courthouse to work with victims who are not necessarily assigned to an advocate.
Advocates are usually assigned at their home offices and then go with the victims to
court. Often, a victim shows up at court because the police have told them to go there to
get an Order of Protection and they are not represented by an advocate. These advocates
stay in the lobby area and seek out individuals who look like they need help. Often, the
victim needs civil or legal services. The RPCC had been operating this program, but they
have since changed the emphasis of their operation to concentrate more on housing
issues, and so they have ended their involvement. Between Friends has agreed to pick this
program up. The remaining funds that were returned by the RPCC will be transferred to
Between Friend for the remaining eight months of the original grant and staff expects to
request an increase to the amount designated to Between Friends when the VOCA 2015
designations are made to include these services.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended VOCA FFY11, FFY12, and
FFY13 Plan Adjustments. The motion was seconded by Ms. Hora and approved by
unanimous voice vote.

Old Business
None.

New Business
None.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Sanchez-Bass moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Hora seconded the
motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:00 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
January 30, 2015
Page 12

 