ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, June 2, 2017, at 9 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-502
Chicago, Illinois
Roll Call
ICJIA Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting
to order at 9:09 a.m. and asked General Counsel Angie Weis to call the roll.
ICJIA Board Member Attendance
Director John Baldwin
Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino, Vice Chair
Director Brent Fischer
State’s Attorney Kim Foxx
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Chief Jerry Mitchell
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle (after roll call)
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah (after roll call)
Director George Sheldon
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff

Present

Absent
X
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

After the initial roll call, nine of the 12 Board members needed for a quorum were
present. Ms. Weis suggested moving to agenda items that did not require a quorum.

 Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki first welcomed new ICJIA Board Member Peoria Police Chief Jerry
Mitchell to his first meeting. The director then introduced Dr. David Olson as inaugural
recipient of ICJIA’s Dr. Candice Kane Lifetime Service Award.
Director Maki described ICJIA as being in a phase of rapid implementation. He said
ICJIA is establishing criminal justice coordinating councils and addressing unmet needs
for victims of crime. He invited the Board to an informational meeting about Dr. Alicia
Boccellari’s Trauma Recovery Centers Model, which provides healthcare services to
populations that are traditionally difficult to engage, such as those with mental illness. He
clarified that the agency was not proposing any specific program, but rather encouraging
discussion on a model that ICJIA researchers identified as potentially beneficial.
ICJIA General Counsel Report
Ms. Weis gave an overview of ICJIA Board Member responsibilities. She explained that
the Board’s role is to set priorities based on their experience and expertise across the
criminal justice system. Staff then use those priorities to drive funding opportunities
within the available state or federal funding sources. These sources often have strict rules
on how funding can be spent, she said, and staff must design the funding opportunities
accordingly. Staff then review and score applications to find programs that have the
capacity and experience to effectively serve the intended populations, and use that review
process to make funding recommendations upon which the Budget Committee votes. She
added that Board members also are responsible for providing oversight on internal and
external policy compliance to ensure integrity throughout the funding process, and that
Board members must recuse themselves from voting when conflicts of interest arise.
ICJIA Financial Report
ICJIA Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz was called upon by Chair Robb to give the
financial report. He informed the Board that ICJIA was operating at approximately the
same rate as the previous year and that 77 percent of the agency’s activity is funded
federally. Mr. Kurtz added that funding activity under Adult Redeploy Illinois was
increasing and acknowledged the commitment of administrators during the budget
impasse. He said the 2017 Victims of Crime Act award was expected to be $70 million,
of which the Budget Committee had just designated $47 million.
Committee Reports

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 2, 2017
Page 2

 Chair Robb explained that the $47 million approved by the Budget Committee included a
$6 million appropriation for civil legal services and $41 million for lead entities to
address sexual assault and domestic violence.
Ms. Wolff informed the Board that the Strategic Opportunities Committee had received a
research presentation on restorative justice, which included information on how different
jurisdictions define the practice.
Opioid Crisis Research Presentation and Panel
Jessica Reichert, manager of ICJIA’s Center for Justice Research and Evaluation,
presented slides and moderated discussion on the opioid crisis. She introduced the topic
by cautioning against use of the words addict or abuser, which imply moral failing, and
instead encouraging use of medical terminology, such as people with opioid use disorder
(OUD). She reported that 2.6 million people in the United States are thought to suffer
from OUD, which is a particularly dangerous substance use disorder (SUD) as opioids
suppress breathing.
Ms. Preckwinkle asked about a graph that displayed a jump in overdoses in 2010, and Dr.
Elizabeth Salisbury-Afshar, Medical Director of Behavioral Health at the Chicago
Department of Public Health, responded that prescribing practices changed; many
patients, who were no longer able to attain opioid prescriptions, sought illegal opioids,
such as heroin, which had fatal consequences. Dr. Salisbury-Afshar added that higher
concentrations of fentanyl in heroin makes the drug cheaper, more addictive, and more
likely to cause overdose.
Ms. Reichert returned to the subject of prescribed opioids, the use of which is tied to the
marketing practices of pharmacological companies. Misleading patient satisfaction
surveys and falsehoods about addictiveness led to over-prescribing pain-management
drugs, she said. Dr. Shah added that Illinois has seen a statistically significant increase in
the number of opioid-related overdose deaths partially because of the state’s proximity to
Ohio and West Virginia, which have high concentrations of pill mills and cartel traffic.
Ms. Reichert recommended increased compliance with the Prescription Drug Monitoring
Program, improved consumer education, and increased alternatives for pain management.
For those who have already developed OUD, Ms. Reichert endorsed treatment focused on
harm reduction, increased referral options, medication-assisted treatment (MAT), and
reducing the stigma surrounding OUDs. Ms. Reichert said MAT combines behavioral
therapy with FDA-approved medications, such as methadone, buprenorphine
(Suboxone®), and naltrexone (Vivitrol®), and naltrexone. Dr. Salisbury-Afshar said
naltrexone is under-studied, with low treatment retention, and a high risk of overdose
following the 28 days the medicine blocks the effects of opioids. In addition to continued

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 2, 2017
Page 3

 pursuit of traffickers, according to Dr. Salisbury-Afshar, the criminal justice system can
combat the epidemic by ensuring overdose reversal treatment, such as naloxone or
Narcan, and training to administer it, are provided to first responders and those leaving
supervision with a risk of overdose.
Ms. Reichert then introduced Dixon Police Chief Danny Langloss, who initiated the Safe
Passage program in his jurisdiction after his 16,000-person city experienced three
overdose deaths in 10 days. He said Safe Passage is a deflection program wherein
citizens voluntarily surrender themselves to the police department and, rather than being
arrested, are immediately ushered into treatment. He said the program had served 165
clients since August 2015 and focused on continuity of care from detox to inpatient or
outpatient services. When Dr. Shah asked him how he attained buy-in from officers
inclined toward arrest, Chief Langlos described a two-hour training program that explains
recovery as a process, introduces the perspectives of people who have been affected by
SUDs, and communicates the long-term benefits of addressing the problem with this
strategy.
When asked to make final comments, the chief stressed the importance of increasing
quality healthcare providers, Dr. Salisbury-Afshar emphasized the need for criminal
justice-public health partnerships, and Dr. Shah recommended rigorous studies on
treatment outcomes and cost-effectiveness.
Adjourn
Chair Robb asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Preckwinkle moved to
adjourn the meeting. The motion was seconded by Ms. Josh. The meeting was adjourned
at 11:15 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 2, 2017
Page 4

 