ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, January 27, 2017, at 9 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-502
Chicago, Illinois

Roll Call
Authority Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting
to order and asked General Counsel Angie Weis to call the roll.
Authority Board Member Attendance
Director John Baldwin
Clerk Dorothy Brown (after roll call)
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino
Director Brent Fischer
State’s Attorney Kim Foxx
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler (after roll call)
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle (after roll call)
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director George Sheldon
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff

Present

Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

After the initial roll call, 10 of the 11 Board members needed for a quorum were present.
Chairman Robb suggested moving to agenda items which did not require a quorum.

 Grant-Making and Ex-Parte Communications
Ms. Weis explained that to make the notice of funding opportunities-driven grant-making
process fair, all potential grantees must receive the same information at the same time.
She asked Board members to refer any questions about when notices will be released or
what they may contain to the ICJIA website, so that potential applicants will not be
unintentionally disqualified for having an unfair advantage. Ms. Hora recommended the
notices include a disclaimer stating that Board members are unable to speak about
funding opportunities and ICJIA Executive Director John Maki agreed.
Chairman’s Remarks
Chairman Robb thanked the ICJIA research team for their hard work on the Ad Hoc
Victim Services Committee Summit in Bolingbrook.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki announced that ICJIA will receive a grant from the Department of
Homeland Security for the Targeted Violence Prevention Program, which uses a public
health approach to address targeted crime. He said the final report from the State
Commission on Criminal Justice & Sentencing Reform was released at the beginning of
January. He reported that staff had initiated administration of the Sex Offender
Registration Task Force. A technical assistance grant from the National Criminal Justice
Reform Project also was received.
Authority Financial Report
ICJIA Deputy Director and Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz was called upon by
Chairman Robb to give the financial report. He explained that the agency was at a normal
run rate, excluding Adult Redeploy Illinois, which had been shrinking without state
funding, though the agency had begun funding Ceasefire again. He expected up to $250
million in Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) funding over the next four to five years.
Approval of Minutes
Ms. Weis stated a quorum had been achieved. Chairman Robb asked for approval of the
September 16, 2016, meeting minutes. Ms. Preckwinkle moved to accept the minutes and
Ms. Josh seconded the motion. One correction was noted by Ms. Hora. In the first
paragraph of page 3, “National imitative” should read “National initiative.” The motion
was adopted by unanimous vote.
Lead Entity Policy

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 2

 Director Maki described how the agency uses non-profits as pass-throughs for funding
and said ICJIA had been working to codify procedures for these entities. He explained
that creating policy to guide these cost-effective relationships would allow for subject
matter experts and community leaders to continue subcontracting to smaller
organizations, while employing thorough standards and auditing processes. In response to
a question from Ms. Hora, Director Maki clarified that individual agencies would still be
able to directly apply for other grants while receiving funding for core services under a
lead entity.
Justice Assistance Grant Schedule
Director Maki described changes that were being undertaken to comply with the Grant
Accountability and Transparency Act. He referred the Board members to a calendar of
anticipated notices of funding opportunity, and added that ICJIA will recommend
extending last year’s contracts to the Budget Committee to avoid gaps in funding until
money is available through the new process.
Committee Reports
Strategic Opportunities Chairman Wolff was not in attendance, so Director Maki reported
that the Ad Hoc Victim Services Committee Meeting served as the last meeting of the
Strategic Opportunities Committee and that Megan Alderden, Associate Director of the
Research & Analysis Unit, would summarize the outcome. Ms. Hora reported there was
no new business from the Budget Committee. Ms. Campanelli reported there was no new
business from the Audit Committee.
Victim Services Priorities
Dr. Alderden gave a presentation on victim service priorities. She began the presentation
by defining a victim as anyone who has incurred harm from a statutorily classified crime,
regardless of their circumstance. She explained that her research team began by
reviewing literature on victimization in Illinois and in the United States, the impact of
this victimization, and related evidence-informed practices. Staff researchers and Aeffect,
a research consultant hired for this project, then conducted interviews with focus groups
and providers to better understand what services were available and what was needed.
Dr. Alderden turned the presentation over to Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik, Manager of the
Center for Victim Studies, who described the first recommendation: raising awareness of
services. More than half of those surveyed responded that they did not know where to
receive support services for themselves or family members, nor that victims were eligible
for compensation.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 3

 Dr. Houston-Kolnik introduced Infonet Manager Jennifer Hiselman, who presented the
second recommendation: funding fundamental needs such as secure housing, utilities, and
employment. She illustrated this recommendation with Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs,
which posits that to achieve higher-level prosocial goals, basic physiological and safety
necessities must first be fulfilled. She said those services are most often provided by
victim services organizations, as opposed to core services, such as mental health and
legal assistance) endorsed in Recommendation 3. Funding advocates to help victims
navigate these complicated systems was Recommendation 4.
Ms. Hiselman introduced Research Analyst Amanda Velasquez who described
Recommendation 5: increasing services to underserved victims. Ms. Velasquez expanded
upon this by offering non-English speakers, the elderly, people with disabilities, and
members of the LGBT communities as examples of underserved groups.
Recommendation 6 stated that funds should be focused on victims with multiple
victimization experiences, as people who have been victimized are more likely to have
crimes committed against them in the future.
Ms. Velasquez presented Recommendation 7, increasing focus on multidisciplinary
responses, as a call for supporting collaboration among social services, universities, the
court system, and the medical community. Confidentiality and practical difficulties in
information sharing across systems were noted as potential barriers to this
recommendation.
Dr. Houston-Kolnik presented Recommendation 8, which was to fund services that are
trauma-informed (reflect the victim’s victimization history) and trauma-focused (address
the symptoms of trauma). Recommendation 9 called for investing in long-term mental
health services, rather than the overburdened crisis intervention or emergency systems.
Dr. Alderden called attention to victims of community violence in Recommendation 10.
This group, whose repeated exposure to violence as a witness or family member of a
victim, often goes unaddressed in high-crime areas, despite well-documented potential
for negative outcomes and harmful behavior. Recommendation 11 encouraged programs
to make use of evidence-informed and evidence-based programs that have been evaluated
to reduce harmful target behavior. Recommendation 12 supported strong data collection
and reporting to add to existing evidence-informed research, ensure fidelity to program
models, and promote sustainability through reflection and feedback.
During discussion of the recommendations, Ms. Hora questioned whether Violence
Against Women Act (VAWA) funding should be used to support the treatment of
community violence. Ms. Preckwinkle commented that community violence has a
relationship with the types of crimes that VAWA typically focuses on: domestic violence,

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 4

 sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence. Director Maki clarified that the presented
recommendations are for both VOCA and VAWA, but that some may be a better fit for
one fund versus the other. He noted that there are federal guidelines for how the specific
funds can be used, and ICJIA will adhere to those rules when considering the
recommendations. Ms. Brown expressed support for the recommendations, particularly
in advocating for legal assistance.
Kevin Givens, Associate Director of the Federal & State Grants Unit, described balancing
the recommendations with the federal regulations on how the funds can be spent. ICJIA
will design notices of funding opportunity with the priorities, review applications, and
bring the proposals to the Budget Committee.
Discussion continued about existing resources that address the recommendations,
including using Medicaid to provide trauma-informed services. Dr. Alderden added that
the findings provided to and gleaned from the Ad Hoc Victim Services Committee
Meeting would soon be available online and potential grantees will be encouraged to
incorporate the data into their applications.
Ms. Preckwinkle moved to approve the recommendations, Ms. Brown seconded the
motion, and they were adopted unanimously. Director Maki thanked the Board members
and Chair Robb opened the floor for public comment.
Public Comment
Candice Jones, Senior Advisor for the Emerson Collective and past director of the Illinois
Department of Juvenile Justice, praised ICJIA for its attention to trauma-informed
interventions, underserved groups, and others that might not traditionally be seen as
victims. She asked that the agency consider creating a coalition of violence intervention
representatives and that ICJIA not purposefully prioritize new programs to the detriment
of ones that are already operating.
Queen Sister advocated for a violence prevention program called It Takes a Village.
Joseph Stanford, with the Target Area Development Corporation, said sometimes victims
have difficulty asking for help, and even when they do, the average citizen does not know
where to seek assistance.
Roberta Williams, also with the Target Area Development Corporation, shared that
physical safety from gun violence, or a lack thereof, creates unbearable anxiety and
community tension.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 5

 Amalia Nieto-Gomez, with Alliance of the Southeast, read a letter from a member of the
organization’s Youth Leadership Council advocating for funding for mentoring and
restorative justice programs to counter violence.
Frederick Seaton, with the Institute for Non-Violence Chicago, described the challenges
of finding appropriate housing for victims.
Carlil Pittman, of Communities United, spoke of how constant violence can normalize
the experience for children and change their responses to trauma.
Michael Tidmore, with Teamwork Englewood, asked the room to not allow bureaucracy
to impede violence prevention goals.
Cynthia Sadkin, representing the Legal Assistance Foundation in Chicago, proposed that
legal assistance be considered for its own coalition so that it may pursue broader
objectives. She said funding long-term legal assistance is vital.
Charles Perry, Director of Community Organizing for West Side Health Authority and
staff member at Cook County Jail, advocated for effective reentry programs to interrupt
the cycle of violence.
Kathy Doherty, of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network, expressed
support for the recommendations, and promoted breaking down the silos for funding. She
said the problems of domestic, sexual, and community violence are connected and must
be treated simultaneously.
Ms. Brown asked for geographic maps to accompany budget proposals to ensure funding
would reach the neighborhoods represented by the public attendees.
Adjourn
Chair Robb asked if there were any other members of the public or Board who wished to
make a comment. Seeing none, she asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Mr.
McCoy moved to adjourn the meeting. The motion was seconded by Mr. Fischer. The
meeting was adjourned at 11:15 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
January 27, 2017
Page 6

 