ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
February 25, 2016 at 1:00 p.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200 - Large Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60606

1. Call to Order and Roll Call
The Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority met on Thursday, February 25, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference
Room, Chicago, Illinois. SOC Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 1:03 p.m.
Other Authority members and designees present were:
Jennifer Greene for State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Acting Director John Baldwin (via teleconference)
Richard Abrams for Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director Patrick Delfino
Interim Superintendent John Escalante
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb (via teleconference)
Lt. Col. James Winters for Director Leo Schmitz
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Also in attendance were:
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Megan Alderden, Authority Research and Analysis Unit Associate Director
Kevin Givens, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Associate Director
Simeon Kim, Authority Associate General Counsel
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Administrative Assistant
Ron Reichgelt, Authority Program Supervisor
Shai Hoffman, Authority Program Supervisor
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor (via teleconference)
Mary Ratliff, Authority Program Director (via teleconference)
Mary Ann Dyar, Authority Program Director
Nicole Kramer of the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office
Patricia McCreary of the Cook County Circuit Court Clerk’s Office
Rebecca Janowitz of the Cook County Board of Directors
Jim Hickey of the Chicago Police Department
Other Authority staff members and guests.

 2. December 8, 2015 Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) Meeting Minutes
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to approve the Minutes of the December 8, 2015 SOC
meeting. Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.

3. Strategic Opportunities Committee Report
SOC Chair Wolff provided an overview of recent SOC progress. She said that after three
months of review by SOC members, the drafts goals for Byrne JAG (Justice Assistance
Grants) had been distributed to the Authority Board for review and to constituencies
represented by the Board for their reactions. She called attention to two letters that had
been included in the meeting materials addressing concerns regarding the draft of the
Authority Goals; one letter from State’s Attorney Kibler and one letter from Assistant
Attorney General Hora.
State’s Attorney Kibler called attention to the letter, included in the meeting materials,
dated February 22, 2016 regarding problems with the proposed Draft Goals for JAG that
he had written to SOC Chair Wolff. He then explained the contents of the letter and the
issues that he had with the JAG Goals, as then drafted. He indicated that the Chair had
responded positively to the suggestions and offered some additional language which was
acceptable.
The SOC discussed proposed edits to the document in the meeting materials entitled
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Strategic Plan: Byrne JAG Activities for
Federal Fiscal Years 2016-2019 (DRAFT). Executive Director Maki explained the
various sections of the document. He also discussed the goals and processes that the SOC
and staff will implement over the next three years, emphasizing that staff are looking to
the SOC and the Board to define the goals for the agency’s programs, which staff will
help implement through an outcome-driven process. He further noted that the process
will be grounded in clear objectives and metrics that will allow the Board to assess the
agency’s progress. Committee members then provided feedback on the structure of the
SOC Strategic Plan which will be incorporated and the revised Plan will be presented at
the next SOC meeting. He said that he wanted to present the final version of the
document to the Authority Board at the June 3, 2016 Authority Regular Meeting and,
once approved, display it on the Authority’s website.
During this discussion, some SOC members indicated that their agencies had received
surveys, issued by Authority grant monitors. The surveys outlined the new Guiding
Principles that have been discussed for the past several meetings and on conference calls

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
February 25, 2016
Page 2

 with individual members, but not yet adopted by the SOC or the Authority Board. The
surveys also prompted other questions. Authority Associate Director Givens explained
the purpose of the surveys and said that staff would contact the Authority’s grantees to
provide any needed clarification or technical assistance. Chair Wolff asked those who
were concerned about the survey to work with Mr. Givens to develop a plan to get the
information he was interested in consistent with the expectation of grantees. Lt. Winters,
Ms. Green and Ms. Hora agreed to assist in this process.
Then Ms. Hora spoke to the letter submitted by her office that made specific suggestions
to improve the Draft JAG Goals. She shared the draft goals with victim service advocates
and agencies. Her letter summarizes their suggestions that incorporate victims’ rights,
safety and restitution into the appropriate goals and includes recommended changes. She
noted that her recommendations were reflected in the revised draft goals.

4. Discussion of Victim of Crime Act (VOCA) and Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) Planning Framework
Executive Director Maki called attention to a document in the meeting materials dated
February 18, 2016 and regarding the Proposed VOCA and VAWA Strategic Planning
Process. He explained the document and proposed planning process, including a
discussion about technical assistance and internal capacity building. Staff clarified that
the needs assessment will apply to both VOCA and VAWA and that the consultants
engaged in the assessment will have a firm understanding of these funds. Ms. Hora asked
for clarification regarding the relationship between the SOC and the Ad Hoc Victim
Services Committee. Both Mr. Maki and Chair Wolff assured members that the VOCA
VAWA Planning process be transparent and collaborative, include victim service experts,
and federally mandated representatives while also ensuring that this planning process is
strategically aligned with the rest of the Authority’s funds.

5. Other Business
SOC Chair Wolff said that the Authority’s Research and Analysis Unit had prepared
some program outcomes that will be presented at the next SOC meeting because time will
not permit those presentations to be made at this meeting.
SOC Chair Wolff said that the SOC’s next steps are to:
1. Have staff make the requested corrections to language in the Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority Strategic Plan: Byrne JAG Activities for Federal
Fiscal Years 2016-2019 (DRAFT) document.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
February 25, 2016
Page 3

 2. Have SOC members review the revised language and indicate if there are still
issues
3. Have SOC members and staff develop a strategy to reach out to grantees to clarify
the purpose and scope of the survey that had been sent to the Authority’s grantees.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Greene seconded the motion and
it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 2:41 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
February 25, 2016
Page 4

 