ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, March 3, 2017, at 10 a.m.
Adler University’s Community Hall, 17 N. Dearborn, 15th floor
Chicago, Illinois
Roll Call
Authority Vice Chair Patrick Delfino welcomed Board members and guests to the
quarterly Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. He called the
meeting to order at 10:05 a.m. and asked General Counsel Angie Weis to call the roll.
Authority Board Member Attendance
Director John Baldwin
Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino
Director Brent Fischer
State’s Attorney Kim Foxx
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director George Sheldon
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz (after roll call)
Paula Wolff

Present
X
X
X

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

After the initial roll call, 10 of the 11 Board members needed for a quorum were present.
Ms. Weis suggested moving to agenda items which did not require a quorum.

 Director Maki thanked Dr. Elena Quintana for facilitating the use of a large meeting
room at Adler University so that the ICJIA Quarterly Board Meeting could be expanded
to include the Sentencing Policy Advisory Council Oversight Board, and the two groups
could discuss the Criminal Justice Sentencing & Reform Commission Final Report.
Authority Financial Report
ICJIA Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz was called upon by Vice Chair Delfino to
give the financial report. He informed the Board that ICJIA is currently operating at
approximately the same rate as the previous year and that 77 percent of the agency’s
activity is under federal programs. Mr. Kurtz added that activity under Adult Redeploy
Illinois was increasing. He listed the amounts for the Notices of Funding Opportunity
(NOFOs) that had been introduced with the competitive grantmaking process: the
community partnership to reduce violence ($800,000), transitional housing ($2 million),
and comprehensive legal aid ($6 million).
Committee Reports
Ms. Hora summarized the Budget Committee items. She said the committee voted not to
require a match for federal Justice Assistance Grant funds, and the action will apply to all
new agreements. In addition, she said the committee approved grants to St. Clair County
and a community residential treatment program.
Ms. Wolff spoke for the Strategic Opportunities Committee and said the committee is
tracking how the funding opportunities are reflecting the priorities developed by ICJIA,
how to employ research to strengthen these ties, and how lead entities will be used going
forward.
Director Maki encouraged Board members to distribute ICJIA’s notices of funding
opportunity widely, especially as smaller organizations struggle during the budget
impasse.
Approval of Minutes
Ms. Weis stated a quorum had been achieved. Vice Chair Delfino asked for approval of
the January 27, 2017, meeting minutes. Ms. Wolff moved to accept the minutes and Ms.
Preckwinkle seconded the motion. The motion was adopted by unanimous vote.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki briefed the group on the state’s history with criminal justice commissions,
setting the stage for discussion of the recommendations of the Criminal Justice

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 3, 2017
Page 2

 Sentencing & Reform Commission. He shared that ICJIA began as the Illinois Law
Enforcement Commission, until the agency was launched through legislation in 1983,
and gave an overview of the causes of Illinois prison overcrowding dating back to the
1970s. He said Governor Rauner has set a goal to reduce the prison populations 25
percent by 2025 and reform the juvenile justice system and parole. The governor also
established the Criminal Justice Sentencing & Reform Commission, he said.
The group discussed whether Illinois’ recent appetite for criminal justice reform was
driven by the bipartisan nature of data analysis and its relationship to measurable
outcomes.
Criminal Justice Reform Commission Panel Discussion
Director Maki introduced Dr. David Olson, Professor of Criminal Justice and
Criminology, Loyola University, who spoke from his 30 years of experience in Illinois
criminal justice research. Dr. Olson said the strengths of the Reform Commission were its
inclusion of underrepresented groups, dedication of expert members, bipartisan
discussions, leadership by Rodger Heaton, reliance on empirical evidence, and timing, as
the state appeared to be ready for reform and technology was able to answer questions
quickly to take advantage of the momentum. He also noted areas for growth: county-level
commissions, rather than one for the whole state; a plan to review criminal justice
policies regularly; a more comprehensive understanding of how sentencing policies
operate in practice; and the effectiveness of large programs.
Director Maki introduced Ms. Kathryn Bocanegra, Director of Violence Prevention,
Enlace Chicago, who offered insight from her background as a community health
advocate. She expressed pride in serving on the Commission, as it engaged the
community and victims of violence. Ms. Bocanegra said she hopes Commission members
understood that safety and rehabilitation are often the desires of victims, rather than
harsher penalties. She said she was especially pleased that trauma-informed recovery was
the first recommendation in the final piece, and that de-incarceration strategies, local
community justice coordinating councils, community capacity for treatment, and data
accountability were included as well.
Dr. Elena Quintana, Executive Director of the Institute for Public Safety at Adler
University praised the Commission for having broad membership, including elected and
un-elected members, as well as employees of the criminal justice system and outside
advocates. She said she regretted not having included the voice of someone who was
currently or formerly incarcerated. She noted that it would have been beneficial to speak
more deeply about the disproportionate effect of mass incarceration on minority
communities, placing drug offenders in the healthcare system rather than the correctional

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 3, 2017
Page 3

 system, the harm of legal enhancements, the recidivistic benefits of education and job
training, and the importance of support and training for correctional officers.
Director Maki and Dr. Olson spoke about how, despite the expertise of the Commission
members, they observed changes in attitude and knowledge from all parties, indicating
the powerful nature of perspective in the group.
ICJIA Research Director Megan Alderden spoke about the difficulties of implementation
and monitoring. In addition to ensuring that recommendations are being adhered to, data
sharing will allow for effective troubleshooting of unintended consequences, she said.
She recommended future discussions on data examine confidentiality and privacy issues.
Ms. Kathy Saltmarsh, Executive Director of the Sentencing Policy Advisory Council,
discussed common misconceptions in data-driven policy change, including employment
requirements (people need housing near or transportation to currently available positions
rather than job market growth); immediate change (there will be an inevitable time delay
in results); and the fear of data sharing (by funding analysts as well as technology, data
cannot be misrepresented for use against the collector, and the resulting feedback loop
will increase problem solving capabilities).
Ms. Brown complimented the report and urged the Board members to support its
implementation. Director Maki agreed, and added that though ICJIA can share
information, provide access to funding, and incentivize best practices, it cannot mandate
change. Implementation of these recommendations must happen at the local level and
will require the commitment of the Board members and other stakeholders, he said.
Mr. Baldwin expressed pride in being a member of the Commission, and spoke of
anticipated changes in the Department of Corrections, such as electronic monitoring, the
Life Skills Reentry Center in Kewanee, and adherence to evidence-based practices. He
asked for patience and support from fellow criminal justice system actors, as his
department often receives more attention for anecdotal failure than systematic success.
Ret. Judge Stuart Palmer, First District Appellate Court, asked why New York was
reporting reductions in violent crime despite their use of mandatory minimums, which the
Commission recommends against. Director Maki answered that New York also
dramatically changed their policing tactics, moving away from stop-and-frisk. He also
talked about how overreliance on incarceration can normalize the experience for citizens,
making incapacitation a rite of passage rather than a punishment. Removing too many
people can erode the collective efficacy of the group, which is the process through which
communities informally guide the behavior of their own members, he said. Under the
supervision of the criminal justice system, people face barriers to employment, pro-social

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 3, 2017
Page 4

 relationships, and meaningful inclusion, which are all factors that protect against harmful
criminal behavior, he said.
State Rep. Marcus Evans also addressed Judge Palmer’s question, explaining that
homicide and gun crime rates in New York and Washington, D.C., were greatly affected
by gentrification within the city limits. Rather than permanently solving neighborhood
problems, legislation and rising property values pushed low-income residents into other
areas, and the crime was displaced with them, he said. Mr. Evans said, therefore,
mandatory minimums are not the answer to this problem, and the long-term solution will
require thoughtful and painstaking discussion, rather than knee-jerk reactions.
Mr. Olson added despite New York’s mandatory minimums, Illinois generally has a more
punitive sentencing scheme. He pointed out that New York offers more services to crime
victims, and that these services are valued more highly by victims than harsher
punishment, even though law-makers often respond to crime with enhanced prosecution
rather than victim services.
State Sen. Kwame Raoul, SPAC Vice Chair, described a bill that was related to those
concerns and the recommendations of the Commission. He said it did not include the
truth-in-sentencing provisions of previous bills, preserved judicial discretion in
departures from mandatory minimums for gun offenders, allowed for programming
credits for truth-in-sentencing inmates, reduced time on mandatory supervised release,
reduced Safe Neighborhood Act sentence enhancements, and lowered minimums for drug
possession cases.
Gladyse Taylor, Assistant Director of the Illinois Department of Corrections, reminded
the group that these changes are not cheap to make, and reduced funding to her
department makes some of the desired implementation insurmountable. Judge Gino
DiVito, SPAC Chair, seconded Ms. Taylor’s observation, saying that without increased
services that address criminological needs, legislative changes will be less impactful. Ms.
Campanelli added that the judiciary can push back against poor or overly harsh policy by
exercising their discretion. She said keeping low-risk people out of extended
incarceration, even when they are repeat offenders, and offering them meaningful
services when they are on release, will improve outcomes and divert the school-to-prison
pipeline. Mr. Raoul reiterated a point raised by many members: increased services
requires increased taxes or cuts and the proposed cuts are often of the service programs
referenced here. Judge DiVito suggested the state reinvests the money saved from
reduced prison populations in resources that will keep people away from harmful
criminal behavior, and Mr. Evans recommended that future publications address funding
and appropriations.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 3, 2017
Page 5

 Adjourn
Vice Chair Delfino asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Hora moved to
adjourn the meeting. The motion was seconded by Vice Chair Delfino. The meeting was
adjourned at 11:15 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 3, 2017
Page 6

 