ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Regular Board Meeting
Tuesday, December 11, 2018
1 p.m. to 3 p.m.
ICJIA Headquarters
300 West Adams Street, 2nd Floor Building Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois, 60606
AGENDA
I.
II.

Call to Order and Roll Call
Chairperson’s Remarks

III.

Executive Director’s Report

IV.

Research and Practice Presentation: Illinois’ Trauma Recovery Center

V.
VI.

Public Comment
Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State and Federal laws
upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should contact by telephone, email, or letter John Klaer: (312) 793-8946, john.klaer@illinois.gov, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200,
Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
August 22, 2018, 10:45 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.
3000 South Dirksen Parkway
Springfield, IL 62703
Roll Call
ICJIA Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting to order at
10:45 a.m. and asked General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz to call the roll.
ICJIA Board Member
Director John Baldwin
Public Defender Carla Barnes
Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director James Chadd
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino, Vice Chair
Director Brent Fischer
State’s Attorney Kim Foxx
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Director David Olson
President Toni Preckwinkle
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Kathy Saltmarsh
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director BJ Walker
Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Director Paula Wolff

Present

Absent
X
X
X
X
X
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 Leadership Panel: A Resilient and Trauma-Informed Illinois
Research Director Dr. Megan Alderden welcomed the panelists and introduced the topic of
trauma-informed services. She explained that trauma, often conceptualized as adverse childhood
experiences (or ACEs), can cause psychological harm to the victim and manifest in chronic
health problems, depression, alcoholism and substance use, low graduate rates, academic
underachievement, lost work time, and criminal conduct. She initiated a discussion with the
panelists on what it means to be trauma-informed and why it is important.
Director John Maki quoted Chicago Beyond Executive Director Liz Dozier, who described being
trauma-informed as moving from a framework where service providers ask, “What’s wrong with
you?” to one where they ask, “What happened to you?” He said government has a responsibility
to understand the influence it has on funded organizations and also give them time to collaborate,
plan, implement, research, and evolve. Rushing those steps heightens the risk of re-traumatizing
victims, he said. Lifespan Policy Director Jennifer Greene added that training all members of an
organization, even those who do not work directly with victims, is necessary to become fully
trauma-informed.
Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence Executive Director Vickie Smith explained that in
the field of domestic violence, providing trauma-informed services means listening to and
treating the entire family, including the abuser. This practice is borne of the understanding that
all people have been through some sort of trauma, she said. UCAN Vice President of Violence
Intervention and Prevention Services Norman Kerr compared trauma-informed practices to how
a massage therapist asks which areas of their client’s body have had surgery or broken bones, so
they can understand which areas need to be treated gently.
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault Executive Director Polly Poskin recommended the
book Trauma and Recovery by Dr. Judith Herman, which explains that children can come from
environments that destroy their sense of trust, autonomy, and identity, which leaves them illprepared for adulthood. Ms. Poskin described how we meet these victims as young adults and
rather than comparing them to their well-adjusted peers, service providers need to meet them
where to properly address their trauma. Ms. Smith said no one achieves anything alone and that
walking alongside victims to understand what they need will help them move forward.
Dr. Alderden then asked for input on creating a statewide effort while recognizing that services
should be locally informed.
Children’s Advocacy Centers of Illinois Executive Director Kim Mangiaracino said her
organization achieves the best responses by participating in multi-disciplinary teams, which
ensure that systems that work in partnership with service providers also are trauma-informed.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 2

 Ms. Greene noted that while the Guiding Principles of Trauma-Informed Care have been
available for many years from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration,
further guidance on their implementation is needed. Understanding that people cannot be
categorized solely by “caused harm” and “received harm” is key to the adoption of these
principles, she said. She also asserted that trauma is not usually resolved in a few months and
that funding timelines need to reflect the long-term needs of clients.
Director Maki said that in a state that is so diverse and decentralized, collaboration is the only
way to move toward this goal. He added that in his experience, face-to-face contact helps
dissipate adversarial attitudes.
Ms. Poskin encouraged the Board to remember that government is not an entity separate from the
people, because that attitude belittles the public’s responsibility to enact change. Mr. Kerr
reminded the Board and panel that when citizens do not feel represented by the government, they
are likely to disengage rather than become empowered and involved in advocacy.
Dr. Alderden asked the panel for thoughts on next steps and to identify anticipated barriers.
Ms. Smith highlighted the need for research to examine how trauma affects human biology
throughout the life course and how to integrate the findings into practice.
Ms. Poskin noted that while people of color are more likely to be victims of crime, inequity, and
oppression, services often were provided by white people whose perspective can be a disservice
to victims even when they’re driven by compassion. Mr. Kerr added that cultural competency
should not be limited to race and ethnicity and should include generational understanding. In
addition to compassion, he said, training to compartmentalize and manage biases is key.
Mr. Kerr also explained that resiliency can be misinterpreted, especially in children, partially
because they can physically recover so quickly. He said those who work with youth outside of a
service setting may not have the clinically prescribed tools to identify and address trauma. He
said there will never have enough clinicians, so society needs to take responsibility for asking
intimidating questions in a safe way, he said.
Dr. Alderden summarized the panel’s discussion on how Illinois could become a traumainformed state:
1. Comprehensive training. Training on trauma for service providers as well as other
practitioners (e.g., criminal justice and education stakeholders).
a. The training should build cultural competencies.
b. The training should include ways to help people be self-aware of their
experiences, privileges, and prejudices and how this might impact their views,
understandings, and approaches.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 3

 2. Acknowledge historical trauma. Recognize and acknowledge the impact of historical
trauma and the role government has played in creating and reinforcing it.
3. Increase access to long-term services. Fund in a manner that allows for longer-term
services. It takes time to build the relationships needed for people to disclose their
victimization experiences and address its impact.
4. Provide space for community voice. Engage residents of the neighborhoods being
served; consider what and how being trauma-informed will assist them in building
collective efficacy and strengthening their communities.
5. Use a multidisciplinary approach. Encourage adoption of multidisciplinary team
approaches. MDT approaches can increase impact of training, buy-in, and sustainability.
6. Identify trauma and consider its impact. It is important for individuals to identify,
acknowledge, and consider the impact of trauma. This starts with being willing to screen
for trauma and then building appropriate responses.
7. Build a systematic approach. Make sure all parts of the system are aware of and
consider trauma in everyday responses.
8. Fund research that informs practice. Fund research that furthers the understanding of
trauma and what victims need. Use results to aid program growth and modification.
Public Comment
Chair Robb open the floor to public comment.
Arkhawara Salih from Apna Gar related her experience of working with domestic violence and
gender-based violence outside of the United States, and asked that ICJIA assists providers in
finding resources to work with all victims, including the abuser.
Ashley Miller of BUILD seconded Ms. Salih’s comments, requesting that grants be allowed to
fund services for victims and offenders, as well as preventative services for youth who have not
been explicitly identified as victims through the traditional criminal justice system intercepts. He
added that the voices in this conversation need to reflect the people being served.
Adjourn
Director Maki invited other members of the public to comment. Seeing none, he requested a
motion to adjourn. Mr. Kibler moved to adjourn and Ms. Hora seconded. The meeting was
adjourned at 11:58 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 4

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606• (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Board Members

From:

Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair, and John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

December 4, 2018

Re:

December 11, 2018, Meeting Overview

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority’s (ICJIA) Quarterly Board Meeting will be
held Tuesday, December 11, from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at ICJIA headquarters, 300 West Adams,
Suite 200, in Chicago. All ICJIA Board meetings are subject to the Open Meetings Act.
Members of the general public are encouraged to attend.
ICJIA’s statutorily-created oversight Board serves a unique and vital role in improving the
State’s public safety outcomes. Composed of state and local public safety officials, policy
experts, and community leaders, the Board is designed to embody and represent the state’s
criminal justice system. It is tasked with setting agency priorities, tracking the progress of
ongoing programs, and overseeing the agency’s grant-making. To that end, ICJIA’s quarterly
Board meetings bring research and practical insights to bear on important and emerging issues
affecting public safety in Illinois, with the goal of identifying how the agency should address
them through research and grant-making.
The December Board meeting will provide members with a brief overview of recent research,
grant-making, and committees. This includes recommendations by the Ad Hoc Board
Committee, which was created by Chair Robb to examine the effectiveness of the Board’s
operations and to make recommendations to strengthen its oversight and policy-making
functions. Please see the attached memo for an overview of these recommendations.
Following these updates, the meeting will feature a panel discussion on ICJIA’s piloting of
Trauma Recovery Center (TRC) model. The TRC is an evidence-informed comprehensive model
designed to reduce barriers for traditionally underserved victims of crime. In 2018, ICJIA began
funding two TRC pilots, one through OSF Saint Francis Medical Center in Peoria, the other
through Advocate Health Care on the South Side of Chicago. The panel will begin with a brief
overview of how Illinois’ TRC grew out of ICJIA’s research and Board-established priorities and
then feature a conversation with ICJIA grant-staff and the leaders from the two pilot sites. To
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 2

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606• (312) 793-8550

learn more about TRCs, please read ICJIA’s 2017 article, “A Comprehensive Model for
Underserved Victims of Violent Crime: Trauma Recovery Centers,” which you can find on the
agency website at http://www.icjia.state.il.us/articles/a-comprehensive-model-for-underservedvictims-of-violent-crime-trauma-recovery-centers.
John Maki
Executive Director

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 3

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606• (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Board Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Date:

December 3, 2018

Subject:
Ad Hoc Board Committee Recommendations
___________________________________________________________________________________
In Summer 2018, ICJIA Chair Elizabeth Robb created an Ad Hoc Board Committee to examine the
effectiveness of the Board’s operations and to make recommendations to strengthen its oversight and
policy-making functions. Since that time, the Board Committee and ICJIA staff have reviewed the
structure of its quarterly meetings and discussed ways to improve member engagement and to possibly
amend the agency’s enabling statute to allow for improved effectiveness. The Board Committee’s
recommendations are below.
Quarterly Board Meetings
ICJIA’s enabling statute requires that “the Authority shall meet at least quarterly, and all meetings of the
Authority shall be called by the Chairman” (20 ILCS 3930/4). Historically, these meetings have been
used for various purposes, including making funding recommendations. Since 2015, most quarterly
meetings have included updates from executive staff and then turned to a research and practice
presentation, which tends to focus on a critical public safety issue, such as gun violence or the opioid
crisis. While committee members think these meetings have been effective, they recommended that the
meetings could be more focused on Board member priorities and provide an opportunity to learn more
about ICJIA’s programs.
Based on members’ feedback, the Board Committee recommends the following structure for the Board’s
quarterly meetings:
●

All meetings should begin with key updates by ICJIA’s executive director and the associate
directors of the agency’s Research & Analysis and Federal & State Grants units. As part of these
updates, executive staff should emphasize upcoming notices of funding opportunity, ensuring that
members have the information they need to help disseminate them to potential applicants. The

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 4

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606• (312) 793-8550

●

chairs of the Board’s committees should also provide high-level summaries of their meetings and
remind members of upcoming meetings.
The year’s first quarterly meeting should aim to provide a kind of state of the state in criminal
justice, with an overall presentation on ICJIA’s grant-funded programs and research initiatives,
presentations by Board members on what they see as the most critical public safety priorities, and
public comment. Based on the input of this state-of-the-state quarterly meeting, the Board and
staff should select topics for the next three meetings, focusing particularly on areas that ICJIA’s
programs address, as members agreed that they all wanted to know more about the agency’s
grantees. After the executive staff provide key updates, the agency’s Research & Analysis unit
should frame the meeting’s key topic from a national, state, and local perspective. The meeting
should then focus on how state and local agencies are or could be addressing this issue. The
Board Committee suggested providing members an opportunity to provide updates on their key
initiatives as time permits, perhaps focusing on work that is related to the meeting topic. After
ICJIA completes a quarterly cycle of meetings, it should begin the process again and plan for a
new state-of-the-state quarterly meeting and subsequent set of three quarterly meetings.

Improving Member Engagement
The Ad Hoc Board Committee agreed that more should be done to educate and engage members. To that
end, the committee recommended that following:
●
●

Conduct ongoing Board orientation for new members and refreshers for current members. (To
help with this objective, see the attached two-page document on ICJIA’s Grant-Making Process.)
Incorporate presentations from grantees at more Board meetings and provide more opportunities
for members to understand ICJIA’s grant programs.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 5

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Created in 1983, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) is a state agency dedicated to
improving the administration of criminal justice through research and grant making (20 ILCS 3930 et.
seq). ICJIA’s independent, statutorily created 25-member Board oversees the agency’s operations,
including approving the funding for its grant-funded programs. ICJIA’s statutory responsibilities fall
under the categories of grants administration, research and analysis, policy and planning, and
information systems and technology.
ICJIA Grant Administration Core Activities:
• Implements and funds criminal justice, victim services, violence prevention programs under the
Violence Against Women Act, Victims of Crime Act, Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant
program, Adult Redeploy Illinois, and other state and federal grant programs.
• Monitors program activity, ensures accountability, and provides technical assistance to grantees.
ICJIA Research and Analysis Core Activities:
• Publishes research studies that analyze a variety of crime trends and criminal justice issues.
• Acts as a clearinghouse for information and research on crime, crime trends, and the criminal justice
system.
• Audits the state central repositories official criminal history record information for data accuracy and
completeness.
• Develops and evaluates state and local programs for improving law enforcement and the
administration of criminal justice.
• Provides or directs partners to technical assistance opportunities.
• Identifies and provides information about evidence-based and promising practices for implementation
by policymakers and practitioners.
ICJIA Policy and Planning Core Activities:
• Develops and implements comprehensive strategies for a coordinated response by the various
components of the criminal justice system for crime prevention and control and crime victim assistance
using federal funds awarded to Illinois.
• Advises the Governor and the General Assembly on criminal justice policies and legislation.
• Convenes groups of policymakers and practitioners to identify and address ongoing concerns of
criminal justice officials.
• Participates in initiatives that improve the impact and cost effectiveness of the criminal justice system.
ICJIA Information Systems and Technology Core Activities:
• Designs, develops, and supports systems, including Infonet, which enhance the quality of victim
service data.
• Serves as the sole administrative appeal body for determining citizen challenges to the accuracy of
their criminal history records.
• Monitors the operation of existing criminal justice information systems to protect the constitutional
rights and privacy of citizens.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ICJIA GRANT-MAKING PROCESS
Phase 6: Fund
and Evaluate

Phase 1:
Establish
Priorities

Phase 5:
Recommend
Applicants for
Funding

Phase 2:
Design Notice
of Funding
Opportunities

Phase 4: Score
Applications

PHASE 1: ICJIA establishes public safety priorities by completing a needs assessment that
includes (1) documentation of existing state and local practices; (2) information gathered
through surveys, focus groups, and interviews with key stakeholders; (3) analysis of trends
and patterns using administrative data; and (4) summary of relevant research literature. The
public safety priorities identified through the needs assessment are presented to the Board
for input and approval. ICJIA’s Strategic Opportunities Committee typically oversees this
stage of ICJIA’s grant-making process.

Phase 3:
Publish Notice
of Funding
Opportunities

should fund. To ensure that funding is spread equitably throughout the state, ICJIA
typically divides the state into regions—Chicago, Northern, Central, and Southern, and
Southern Illinois—and first selects applications with the highest score in each region. ICJIA
staff then select the applications with highest scores irregardless of where they’re located
until the available funding exhausted. This phase takes about one week to complete.

PHASE 5: Once staff have determined the successful applicants, ICJIA recommends them
to its Budget Committee. The Budget Committee is ultimately responsible for final funding
PHASE 2: ICJIA staff uses the agency’s approved public safety priorities to inform Notice decisions, basing their decisions on whether the recommended programs address the
agency’s public safety priorities.
of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) design. NOFOs are publicly available requests for
applications for state- and federally funded programs. When designing a NOFO, ICJIA’s
staff uses established priorities, research of best practices, and guidance and requirements PHASE 6: Upon approval by the Budget Committee, ICJIA executes grant agreements. The
of the state or funding source. NOFO design typically takes four to six weeks. During this execution process typically takes between six to eight weeks, but can take longer depending
on the complexity of the agreement and program. The length of a grant program is
time, ICJIA notifies the Board’s Budget Committee of the agency’s intent to publish a
determined by the funding source. Programs that are supported by state funds depend on an
NOFO, describing its scope and the amount of funding available. As part of the design
process, ICJIA staff also solicits members’ feedback on the NOFO and incorporates their annual appropriations in the state’s fiscal year budget, while programs that are supported by
federal funds can last up to three years. Regardless of the length of the grant, the Budget
recommendations.
Committee receives at minimum an annual update on the program. If the program runs for
PHASE 3: Once the design process is complete, ICJIA publishes the NOFO on its website. multiple years, the Budget Committee is responsible on an annual basis for deciding
whether to continue funding based on performance over the previous year. During this
By state law, NOFOs must remain open and available to the public for at least 30 days.
phase, ICJIA staff also review programs to identify those that can be formally evaluated.
During that period, ICJIA staff provides information and responds to questions from
Evaluation decisions are based on the program’s implementation quality, importance of the
potential applicants. All questions and answers are published on the agency’s website.
study to the state and larger research community, intentions to continue funding similar
programs in the future, and other factors related to an evaluation’s feasibility and value (e.g.,
PHASE 4: After the NOFO closes, ICJIA’s staff score the applications. After the
applications are scored, staff determine which ones they will recommend that ICJIA
resources, research design).

 12/11/2018

Financial Management
Authority Board Meeting

• 5 month FY19 total expenses – through November 30, 
2018
– $40.4 mm total expenditures
– $31.7 mm expenditures under Federal programs (78%)

• Program totals year to date

December 11th, 2018
ICJIA Headquarters

–
–
–
–

VOCA ‐ $25.5 mm
JAG ‐ $3.2 mm
VAWA ‐ $1.9 mm
State programs ‐ $8.6 mm (ARI $2.6 mm)

• Program highlights
– $365 mm received under VOCA awards of October ‘15, ’16, ’17 and ’18
– VOCA 2018 award increased from prior year by ~80% to $128.2 million

12/11/2018   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   1

12/11/2018   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   2

Barriers to Seeking Help
• Awareness of victimization & services1

Trauma Recovery Centers

• Accessibility2
• Cultural beliefs & stigma3
• Previous negative experiences4
• Impact of disadvantage & trauma5

12/11/2018   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   3

1

 12/11/2018

Medical Needs

The TRC model engaged a higher 
percentage of clients in mental health 
services than the traditional service 
model in hospitals.6
72%

Traditional Services:
Information about 
Services & Victimization

Trauma Recovery Center (TRC):
Case Management
Clinical Care/Mental Health
Advocacy & Support Accessing Other Services

38%

Traditional Services

Traditional Services

Services at a TRC

• Victim seeks services 

• Services engage victim

• Service driven

• Patient driven

• Disconnected services

• Coordinated services

• Information & referral oriented

• Linking oriented

TRC

NOFO: Core Components of TRC
• Assertive outreach and engagement with 
underserved populations
• Comprehensive mental health and support 
services
• Case management & advocacy
• Evidence‐Based individual/group psychotherapy
• Medication support

• Coordinated care tailored to individual needs
• Evaluation of implementation fidelity & service 
delivery quality

2

 12/11/2018

NOFO: Phases of TRC
• Coordination Period: 3 months
•
•
•
•

Hiring & training
Protocol development
Forming internal, multidisciplinary team
Establishing data collection methods & systems

• Implementation Period: 12 months
• Direct service provision
• Internal evaluation of fidelity and quality

• Future External Evaluation

Alignment to Ad Hoc Victim Service Priorities
Promote awareness and access
Boost public awareness.
Put more advocates in more places.
Increase services for underserved victims.

Addressed
Addressed in part
Inadequately addressed

Address core needs
Address victims’ fundamental needs.
Fund core direct services.

Victim centered and informed
Address multiple victimization experiences. 
Promote multidisciplinary responses. 
Encourage trauma‐informed/trauma‐focused services.

Fill key gaps
Fund long‐term services.
Address community violence victimization. 

Implementation, outcomes, sustainability
Encourage use of evidence‐informed/evidence‐based practices and programming.
Promote data collection and evaluation. 

TRCs in Illinois

Discussion

Advocate Health‐ Cook
OSF Saint Francis‐ Peoria

3

 12/11/2018

References
1. Aeffect, Inc. (2017). 2016 Victim Needs Assessment. Chicago, IL: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. Retrieved 
fromhttp://www.icjia.state.il.us; Institute of State and Regional Affairs (2013). Crime victim needs: Insights from 
research.Harrisburg, PA: Pennsylvania Commission on Crime and Delinquency. Available at: http://www.pccd.pa.gov.

2. Aeffect, Inc. (2017). 2016 Victim Needs Assessment. Chicago, IL: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. Retrieved 
fromhttp://www.icjia.state.il.us; Elliott, D., Cellarius, K., & Horn, T. (2013). 2012 Oregon Crime Victims’ Needs Assessment: 
Final Report. Salem, OR: Oregon Department of Justice Crime Victims’ Services Division; Lowry, S., Reid, L., Feeley, L., 
Johnson, M., & Williamson, E. (2015). Massachusetts Office for Victim Assistance 2014 Needs Assessment. Massachusetts 
Office for Victim Assistance. Retrieved from http://www.mass.gov/mova/docs/voca/mova‐2014‐needs‐assessment.pdf; 
Vasquez, A. L., & Houston‐Kolnik, J. (2017). Victim Need Report: Service Providers’ Perspectives on the Needs of Crime Victims 
and Service Gaps. Chicago, IL: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. Retrieved from 
http://www.icjia.state.il.us/assets/articles/ICJIA_Victim_service_provider_Needs.pdf
3. El‐Khoury, M. Y., Dutton, M. A., Goodman, L. A., Engel, L., Belamaric, R. J., & Murphy, M. (2004). Ethnic differences in 
battered women’s formal help‐seeking strategies: A focus on health, mental health, and spirituality. Cultural Diversity and 
Ethnic Minority Psychology, 10, 383–393; McCart, M. R., Smith, D. W., & Sawyer, G. K. (2010). Help seeking among victims of 
crime: A review of the empirical literature. Journal of Traumatic Stress, 23, 198‐206; Tsui, V., Cheung, M., & Leung, P. (2010). 
Help‐seeking among male victims of partner abuse: Men’s hard times. Journal of Community Psychology, 38, 769‐780.
4. Liang, B., Goodman, L., Tummala‐Narra, P., & Weintraub, S. (2005). A theoretical framework for understanding help‐
seeking processes among survivors of intimate partner violence. American Journal of Community Psychology, 36, 71‐84.
5. Office for Victims of Crime. (2012). Homicide.Office for Victims of Crime Training and Technical Assistance Center’s 
website: https://www.ovcttac.gov; Schilbach, F., Schofield, F., & Mullainathan, S. (2016). The psychological lives of the 
poor. American Economic Review: Papers & Proceedings, 106, 435‐440; Yuan Yuan, N. P., Koss, M. P., & Stone, M. (2016). The 
psychological consequences of sexual trauma. National Online Resource Center on Violence Against Women. Retrieved from 
http://vawnet.org.
6. Boccellari, A. (2017). Reaching underserved victims of crime. [PowerPoint slides].

4

 