ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
COORDINATING COUNCIL ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, June 14, 2018, at 1:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Roll Call
Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 1:11 p.m. and Acting General Counsel
Malgorzata Bereziewicz called the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Paula Wolff (Chair)

X

Mary Ann Dyar (Adult Redeploy)

X

Shataun Hailey (VAWA MDT)

X

Absent

X

Marcus Hardy (IDOC)
Dr. David Olson (CJCC)

Telephone

X

Mary Ratliff (FVCC)

X

Luisa Salazar (Focused Deterrence)

X

Other Authority Members Present

Present

Director John Baldwin

Telephone
X

Hon. Carla Barnes

X

Hon. Kimberly Foxx

X

Jim O’Grady for ISP Director Leo Schmitz X
Era Laudermilk for Cook Co. Public
Defender Amy Campanelli

X

Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa
Madigan

X

Absent

 Barbara West for CPD Superintendent
Eddie Johnson

X

Also in attendance were:
John Maki, ICJIA Executive Director
Malgorzata Bereziewicz, ICJIA, Acting General Counsel
Bryant Jackson-Green, ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor
Bobae Kang, ICJIA Research Analyst
Meghan Peuterbaugh, ICJIA Research and Analysis Intern
Adriana Perez, Adult Redeploy Illinois Program Manager
Jessica Reichert, ICJIA Manager of the Center for Justice Research and Evaluation
Emma Rubin, Adult Redeploy Policy and Project Coordinator
Shay Hoffman, ICJIA Manager for Prevention Violence Grants
Tracy Hahn, ICJIA Manager of the Center for Sponsored Research and Program
Development
Tammy Woodhams, National Criminal Justice Association (phone)
Approval of Minutes
Minutes from the April 19th CCAC meeting will be approved at the next meeting on
August 9, 2018.
Overview of ICJIA’s Coordinated Activities
This meeting began with Executive Director Maki giving an overview of the purpose and
background of the Coordinating Council Advisory Committee (CCAC) and mentioning
various programs that ICJIA has been coordinating. Mr. Jackson-Green invited ICJIA
staff working on the Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils (CJCC), Adult Redeploy
Illinois (ARI), Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Partnership Focused Deterrence sites,
Family Violence Coordinating Councils (FVCC), and the Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) Multidisciplinary Team (MDT) program to share the purpose of their programs
and the programs’ main goals for 2018.
Ms. Dyar began the introductions with an overview of ARI. Ms. Dyar discussed how the
ARI program focuses on increasing local jurisdictions’ alternatives to incarceration for
non-violent offenders, and supporting local jurisdictions’ strategic plans that are
evidence-based and data driven. Ms. Dyar shared that ARI’s 2018 main goals included
hosting the ARI/CJCC summit, and preparing for potential legislative changes that would
allow counties to use ARI funding for services for probation-eligible offenders. Chair
Wolff asked Ms. Dyar how many people are served by ARI. Ms. Dyar answered stating
that over four thousand were served since January 2011. Ms. Dyar explained that those
served usually spend eighteen months in the program and that ARI saves money
compared to the cost of incarceration in DOC.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 2

 VAWA program manager Ms. Hailey continued the introduction of programs by
providing an overview of the VAWA MDT program. Ms. Hailey mentioned that the main
goal for the program is to promote coordination and a multidisciplinary response to
crimes against women, while also increasing offender accountability. Ms. Hailey then
stated that the VAWA program is currently funding four counties and twenty-one
agencies. Mr. Jackson-Green asked Ms. Hailey for any major updates for the MDT
program and Ms. Hailey answered by stating that VAWA is preparing to issue new grants
for the MDTs.
Ms. Salazar then provided an overview of the JAG Partnership Focused Deterrence sites,
which focus on targeting offenders to stop shootings. Ms. Salazar discussed the research
behind the focused deterrence model of crime prevention and how current Illinois sites
are implementing the program. Chair Wolff asked Ms. Salazar if the JAG program would
be evaluated. Ms. Salazar stated that at some point it would be, prompting a discussion on
evaluation, research, and multidisciplinary leadership involvement in the program.
Ms. Ratliff shared the purposes and main goals for 2018 of the Illinois FVCC and how
budget cuts have affected this council. Ms. Ratliff went on to explain that the FVCC runs
on a three prong-approach involving local council coordinators, trainings, and community
awareness with domestic violence services.
This discussion moved on to how ICJIA could better support coordination. Dr. Olson
mentioned the JAG Partnership Focused Deterrence sites, which led to a discussion of
multidisciplinary leadership. Ms. Dyar stated that a “common thread navigator”, a
designated staff person responsible for coordinating project efforts, would be beneficial.
Director Maki added that a dedicated project coordinator is a good, inexpensive
investment to support coordination.
Dr. Olson mentioned efforts to develop trends and issues reports for each CJCC
jurisdiction based on the area’s crime data reported to ICJIA and then providing these
reports to county stakeholders. This led to a discussion about the positive facets of
coordination which include helping stakeholders become better grant applicants by
helping stakeholders understand their data, and helping stakeholders use data to inform
appropriate actions in their jurisdictions. Dr. Olson added that giving stakeholders a
report of what their data shows may in turn incentivize county stakeholders to share with
ICJIA various data available to them and thus improve data exchanges within and among
state and local agencies.
Presentation on ARI/CJCC Summit Report
Mr. Jackson-Green then presented on the ARI/CJCC summit held in Bloomington, IL
from May 8th -10th. Mr. Jackson-Green opened the presentation explaining why a joint
summit was held, the goals of the summit, and the participants present at the summit.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 3

 Ms. Dyar explained the various break-out sessions held on critical issues including
emerging adults, being trauma-informed, procedural justice, and medication-assisted
treatment as well as ARI’s focus within the summit. Mr. Jackson-Green summarized the
various break-out sessions and that the overarching goal was to enable the joint sharing of
ideas among CJCC, ARI, and others in attendance.
The discussion of the summit continued with committee members sharing which
breakouts that they thought were helpful. Ms. Hora stated the full-session panel
concerning grant funding was enjoyable and helpful for attendees.
Mr. Jackson-Green continued by addressing the successes and challenges of the summit.
The successes included connections made with additional counties to which ICJIA may
be able to provide trends and issues reports, positive summit evaluations, and the
successful introduction of CJCC and ARI programming to new audiences. Challenges
discussed included the difficulty in developing a summit program relevant to both CJCC
and ARI stakeholders in terms of the summit’s structure and timing. Director Maki
commented on the difficulty of explaining the real-world benefits of coordination
because coordination is such an abstract concept. Ms. Dyar commented on how some
important roles within coordination, such as probation officers, are often not involved in
the conversation of coordination and so summit participants may not see their relevance.
Director Maki asked the Committee to consider whether planning grants should be
prioritized to support the CJCC.
Further discussion focused on the role of suburban and rural counties in CJCC and ARI
efforts and their unique challenges. The discussion continued around how these
jurisdictions deal with challenges, including available resources, funding, grants, and
problem-solving strategies, differently than more urban counties, and how ICJIA can
make a better effort to assist them.
Mr. Jackson-Green asked for further suggestions and comments regarding the summit
and mentioned that publication of the summit report is expected by the next CCAC
meeting on August 9, 2018.
New Business
There was no new business.
Public Comment
Chair Wolff offered the floor for public comment. Attendee Bobae Kang offered public
comment regarding ICJIA providing data collection and project evaluation training to
counties aimed at helping them develop self-sustainable programs. ICJIA should help
counties understand the data they collect and have the tools to conduct an independent
analysis. Then, ICJIA could function as a facilitator to the various stakeholders, rather
than taking on the task of this research for every locality.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 4

 After this, Chair Wolff asked for further public comment. After seeing none Chair Wolff
asked for a motion to adjourn. The motion was made and seconded.
Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 2:46 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 5

 