ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
September 16, 2015 at 9:30 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
1. Call to Order
The Strategic Opportunities Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority met on Wednesday, September 16, 2015, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large
Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois. Authority Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair
Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.
Other Authority members and designees present were:
Daynia Sanchez-Bass for Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director Patrick Delfino
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Steven Caluris for Superintendent Garry McCarthy
Director Michael J. Pelletier
Lanetta Haynes Turner for President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Director Nirav Shah (via teleconference)
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Also in attendance were:
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Randy Kurtz, Authority Deputy Director
Megan Alderden, Authority Research and Analysis Unit Associate Director
Lisa Stephens, Authority General Counsel
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Administrative Assistant
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Bob Boehmer, of the University of Illinois at Chicago
Jesse Tapia, Authority Accounting Manager
Ieva Massengill, Authority Staff Accountant
Lester Finkle, Chief of Staff for the Cook County Public Defender’s Office
Andrew Jatico, Chief Financial Officer for the Cook County Public Defender’s Office
Mary Ann Dyar, Authority Program Supervisor of Adult Redeploy Illinois
Other Authority staff members and guests.

 2. August 27, 2015 Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) Meeting Minutes
Motion: Ms. Hora moved approve the Minutes of the August 27, 2015 Strategic
Opportunities Committee meeting. Director Delfino seconded the motion and it passed by
unanimous voice vote.
3. Review of Documents Presented and Discussed at the August 27, 2015 Strategic
Opportunities Committee (SOC) Meeting
Authority Resolution #2 (2001) – Grant Making Principles (Revised 2015)
The SOC accepted the 2015 revisions of the Authority Resolution #2 (2001) – Grant
Making Principles by consensus.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Principles
Ms. Turner suggested the recasting these two Principles as follows:
1. Strengthen Communities – The criminal justice system should collaborate with
communities to strengthen their informal capacities to prevent crime and violence.
2. Efficient – The criminal justice system should maximize limited resources to
achieve its intended outcomes by investing in strategies shown to work.
SOC Chair Wolff said that once the language is finalized, the Principles would be
presented to the Authority Board. As the SOC and the Board work toward a strategic
plan, they should routinely refer to these principles for guidance.
4. Federal and State Funds Presentation
Deputy Director Kurtz delivered a PowerPoint presentation entitled Federal and State
Grants Inflows/Sources and Outflows/Grants Made for state fiscal years 2011 – 2015.
Associate Director Alderden said that with further guidance, staff could drill down
further into the data and provide a more detailed analysis of where the Authority’s grant
funds are actually going. Members suggested a number of additional analyses that they
would find helpful. Deputy Director Kurtz stated that he will work with staff to provide
some of these additional analyses at the next meeting.
Ms. Desai called attention to a handout describing the Justice Assistance Grants (JAG)
(including JAG’s seven Priority Areas, Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), and Violence
Against Women Act (VAWA) federal programs.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
September 16, 2015
Page 2

 Director Maki said that the federal programs have a certain structure to them that allows
for a degree of reliability and predictability. The introduction of state funds definitely
changed the Authority’s operations, especially because state funds rely on year-to-year
appropriation. There is still an on-going culture shift among the Authority’s long-time
staff in reaction to the introduction of state funds to the Authority. Staff is still trying to
work out best processes for managing state funds.
Committee Chair Wolff said that it would be interesting to see how the Authority’s
spending compares to that of similar agencies throughout the country and whether
anybody is doing anything significantly different from what the Authority is doing. It
would also be interesting to see a funding allocation history relative to substantive
priorities.
Director Maki said that we need to know what we’re doing to address the needs of the
state, but also what we’re getting out of that.
Director Delfino suggested developing a grid to track needs, goals, and priorities.
5. Proposed Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) Grant Making Process
Director Maki delivered a brief PowerPoint presentation with an associated handout
describing recommended processes for the distribution of JAG funds in keeping with the
overall grant-making principles and goals. He called attention to the following Goals and
Objectives:
Objective 1:
Objective 2:
Objective 3a:
Objective 3b:
Objective 3c:

Objective 4a:

Objective 4b:

Comply with federal requirements.
The Authority’s Research and Analysis Unit should have a role in
designing all JAG grant inputs and outputs.
Maintain State Impact Grants (grants benefitting the state as a whole, but
cannot be funded without the Authority’s support).
Majority of JAG funds should support grants in response to needs-based
analysis via request-for-proposals processes.
Issue JAG grants for programs for up to 48 months with a sliding
matching funds requirement (0%, 25%, 50%, 75% for years one through
four), which has proven to be a best practice for capacity-building.
Develop clear criteria for State Impact Grants to keep them aligned with
the Authority’s Guiding Principles and the Authority’s Grant-Making
Principles so as to deliver clearly measurable state-wide impact that
cannot otherwise be supported.
State Impact Grants should be exempt from the 48-month timeframe, but
should have a 25% matching funds requirement.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
September 16, 2015
Page 3

 Objective 5:

Provide oversight of grants to monitor outcomes to determine whether or
not the funds that the Authority expends produces desired outcomes.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the motion
and it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:07 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
September 16, 2015
Page 4

 