ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

AGENDA
Institutional Review Board
August 15, 2018 (2:00 – 3:00 PM)
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606

I.
II.

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of June 27, 2018 Meeting Minutes

III.

Applications for Review
a. New applications:
1. LGBTQ+ Victimization Survey (pp. 2 - 80)
Dr. Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik & Amanda Vasquez
b. Amendments:
1. Victim and Family Member Interviews: Linking Systems of Care for Children,
Youth, & Families (pp. 81-99)
Amanda Vasquez & Dr. Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik

IV.

Old Business: None

V.

VI.
VII.

New Business:
a. Expedited amendment to add staff:
1. Outcome Evaluation of A Way Out Program
Jessica Reichert
Next IRB meeting – November 1st, 1 – 3 pm
Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State and Federal
laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should contact by
telephone or letter John Klaer, Associate Director, Office of Administrative Services, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300
W. Adams St. Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150 or at (312) 793-8550. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Institutional Review Board Initial Application for Research Involving Human Subjects
IRB Application Checklist
Date: 8/9/2018
Title of Proposal: LGBTQ+ Victimization Survey
Principal Investigator: Dr. Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik; Amanda L. Vasquez

☒ Application
Title(s): Institutional Review Board
Initial Application for Research Involving
Human Subjects
Page(s): 15
☒ Recruitment flyer
Title(s): Recruitment Flyers
Page(s): 3
☐ Recruitment script

Page(s): Click here to enter text.
☐ Focus group protocol
Title(s): Click here to enter text.
Page(s): Click here to enter text.
☒ Survey
Title(s): LGBTQ+ Full Survey
Page(s): 46
☐ Observation protocol

Title(s): Click here to enter text.

Title(s): Click here to enter text.

Page(s): Click here to enter text.

Page(s): Click here to enter text.

☒ Contact script

☐ Follow-up script

Title(s): Contact Script

Title(s): Click here to enter text.

Page(s): 2

Page(s): Click here to enter text.

☒ Verbal or written consent

☒ Payment protocol

Title(s): Electronic and Written Consent

Title(s): Payment

Page(s): 3

Page(s): 1

☒ Intake form/screen
Title(s): Screener
Page(s): 3
☐ Interview protocol
Title(s): Click here to enter text.

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Institutional Review Board Initial Application for Research Involving Human Subjects

I.

PROPOSAL INFORMATION

1. Principal investigator(s): Dr. Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik; Amanda L. Vasquez
2. Principal investigator(s) email(s): Jaclyn.kolnik@illinois.gov; Amanda.L.Vasquez@illinois.gov
3. Office Address: 300 W Adams St Suite 200
4. Office Phone: 312-793-8945; 312-793-8645
5. Project staff:, Jennifer Hiselman, Paola Baldo, Megan Alderden
6. Start date of project: 8/17/2018
7. End date of project: 8/17/2019
8. Title of proposal: LGBTQ+ Victimization Survey
9. Initial approval type:
☒ Full IRB

☐ Expedited

☐ Exempt

10. Is this IRB linked to other IRB approval?
☒ Yes

☐ No

a. If yes, please explain: The previous LGBTQ+ study titled: “Preliminary Study of LGBTQ Victimization and HelpSeeking” was designed to ensure select study measures were worded appropriately for use with an LGBTQ+
population. The preliminary findings from that study have informed the survey items included in the present study.
11. Will the data be primary or secondary?
☒ Primary

☐ Secondary

a. If secondary, please briefly indicate the source of the data.

II. Will
VULNERABLE
12.
any of the SUBJECTS
following groups potentially be included in your sample?
☐ Adult prisoners or individuals in secure confinement

☐ Developmentally disabled, intellectually disabled, or cognitively impaired
☐ Individuals held in residential treatment, locked facilities, or hospitalized
☐ Juveniles in correctional or detention facilities
☐ Minors under age 18

☐ Non-English speakers

☐ Pregnant women, if focus of research
☒ Probationers, parolees, or individuals under court or correctional supervision: Who are over 18 years old

 ☒ Wards of the state: Who are over 18 years old
☐ Other (please specify):
13. For each project staff member, please list name, Human Subjects Research Certification date, and expiration
date.
Name

Certification date

Expiration date

Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik

7/17/2017

7/16/2020

Amanda Vasquez

3/9/2017

3/9/2019

Jennifer Hiselman

10/28/2015

Paola Baldo

2/01/2018

Megan Alderden

05/12/18

01/31/2021

III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. PROJECT SUMMARY
14. Please provide a brief summary (3 – 5 sentences), in lay terms, of the purpose of the study and the procedures
subjects will undergo.
The purpose of the present study is to administer a survey tool to examine the experiences with harm (e.g., sexual,
physical) and the help-seeking experiences of LGBTQ+ individuals in Illinois. Participants will be screened either
electronically via an online screener or over the phone to determine their study eligibility. Eligible participants can
choose to receive an email with a link to the online version of the survey, complete the online version immediately,
or receive a paper copy of the survey by mail. The questions will ask about their experiences with harm, disclosure,
and help-seeking experiences. Participants will be provided a list of community resources and the informed
consent. This study will offer an understanding of the experiences with harm and the subsequent disclosure and
help-seeking experiences of individuals identified as LGBTQ+.
B. PROCEDURES
15. Describe the procedures involving human subjects and list the steps you will take.
a. Time involvement of subjects:
The survey will take approximately 45 – 60 minutes to complete.
b. Location(s) where the study will be conducted, including a description, if applicable:
N/A. Surveys will be completed wherever the subject chooses to take our online or paper survey.
c. Amount of payment, if any (consent form must note plan for payment if they withdraw voluntarily):
3

 Participants will receive a $25 gift card for completing the online survey or returning the paper copy via the
mail.
d. What subjects will experience or do:
Prior to the screener, individuals will be informed about the content of the screener, what will be done with the
information collected in the screener and how such information will be protected; participants will be asked if
they would like to continue with the screener.
Interested individuals will be screened into the study via a brief online screener or can call to be screened.
Screening is estimated to take 5-10 minutes. Screening questions will ask the subjects about their age, sexual
orientation, Illinois residency, and whether they have had experiences with harm at any point in their lifetime,
along with contact information (e.g. phone number, email address, mailing address), and preferred contact
method. Contact information will be used to send study materials and participant payments. Research staff will
record participants’ names, addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses to send them the study materials,
including a community resource list and either a link to the online study or a paper copy of the study (including
the informed consent form), depending on the participant’s preferences as noted on the screener. All
identifying information (participant names, addresses, phone numbers, and e-mail addresses) will be kept in a
password protected document saved in a secure computer file accessible only to the assigned research staff. To
ensure participant’s safety, researchers will ask if these methods of contact are safe and whether a message
can be left.
If the subject is not eligible for the survey and they completed the screener online they can download a
community resource list at the end of the screener. If they are ineligible and screened by phone they can opt to
have the community resource list emailed or mailed to them.
If the subject is eligible for the survey, the participant may choose to receive an email with a link to the online
version of the survey, complete the online version immediately, or receive a paper copy of the survey by mail.
Individuals who choose to complete the online version immediately will be directed to the start of the survey.
Researchers will send study materials to all other participants via their preferred contact method (either email
or mail). Participants who select email will be sent an individualized study link that will direct them to the
online survey. Participants who select mail will be sent a printed copy of the survey. All participants will
receive the informed consent form and a list of community resources. Individuals participating by mail will also
receive a postage paid envelope to return the completed survey in to ICJIA. The informed consent form
includes the details and purpose of the study, information regarding ICJIA and the Center for Victim Studies,
4

 and their role and responsibilities as a participant of the study. On the informed consent form, participants will
be instructed to click a button on the screen to confirm their consent to participating in the survey, if
completing the survey online. For those who choose to receive a paper copy of the survey, there will be an
informed consent form included with the materials mailed to the participant. The sheet informs the participant
that in returning the completed survey to ICJIA they are consenting to participate in the study.
Once informed consent is obtained, eligible participants will be directed to a screen to certify they have not
previously completed the survey.
Following this certification, participants will be directed to the full survey. Survey content will seek to learn
more about participants’ experiences with harm and subsequent help-seeking, including questions about:
•

The types and characteristics of harm experienced

•

Disclosure and help-seeking following experiences with harm

•

Informal and formal reactions to disclosure and help-seeking

•

Well-being (e.g., mental health and coping)

•

Stressful life events, including discrimination experiences

•

Demographic information (e.g. age, race, ethnicity, income level, etc.)

•

Sexual and gender identity (e.g. sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression)

At the suggestion of allied professionals who the researchers have worked with to design the present study, we have
also included a page in the middle of the survey reminding participants to pause or take a break if needed to selfregulate potential triggers from the survey questions, before continuing through the remainder of the survey.
Research staff will follow-up, via phone or email, with eligible participants one week after the materials are sent to
ensure participant receipt of materials. Researchers may follow up approximately 2 additional times to remind
participants about the survey.
Within 3 business days of the survey completion, participants will be mailed or emailed a $25 gift card.
C. EQUITABLE SELECTION OF SUBJECTS
16. Please enter the following information about your proposed sample:
a. Anticipated total number of subjects in study: 1500
b. Number of subjects under 18: 0
c. Number of subjects 18 and older: 1500
d. Number of prisoners or individuals in secure confinement: n/a
e. Number of probationers, parolees, or other individuals under court or correctional supervision: Unknown
5

 f.

Race of subjects (please provide number of subjects after description, if known):
☐ African American
☐ American Indian
☐ Asian

☐ Hispanic
☐ White
☐ Other

☐ Bi-Racial
☒ Unknown
☒ Comments: We do not know the race of the subjects who will participate in this study.
17. How will the subjects be recruited?
Researchers will use the following methods to recruit eligible participants.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Distribution of recruitment materials (e.g., study flier, information cards) to LGBTQ+ specific and allied
service agencies.
Distribution of recruitment materials via email listservs.
Distribution of recruitment materials in public aid and other social service offices.
Distribution of recruitment materials to healthcare providers.
Distribution of recruitment materials to universities.
Distribution of recruitment materials at events, conferences, and meetings.
Use of online resources, such as ICJIA’s website, social media accounts, Craigslist.
Ask participants to share study information with others.
Invitation of past ICJIA research participants who have expressed interest in future research opportunities.

Recruitment materials will direct potential participants to the online screener or a phone number to call in order to be
screened for eligibility to participate in the study.
Participants will be screened via phone or online to determine their study eligibility. Participants in the present study
are those who:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Reside in Illinois;
Identify as LGBTQ+
Are 18 years or older; and
Have experienced at least one form of sexual or physical harm at some point in their lifetime.

18. Identify the criteria for inclusion/exclusion of subjects and provide a clear rationale for them.
Inclusion: Participants in the present study are those who:
1. Reside in Illinois;
2. Identify as LGBTQ+
3. Are 18 years or older; and
4. Have experienced a form of harm at any point in their lifetime.
6

 These criteria are necessary to better understand LGBTQ+ individuals’ experiences with harm and help-seeking
following these experiences in Illinois.
Given that the materials are written in English, participants will also be those who speak English.
Exclusion: Excluded individuals are those not meeting the above criteria. These individuals are excluded because
the present study seeks to better understand LGBTQ+ individuals’ experiences with harm and help-seeking
following these experiences in Illinois.
D. RISK/BENEFIT ASSESSMENT
19. Briefly describe the potential benefits of the project to subjects and/or society. Note: Social science research
typically does not provide a direct benefit to the subjects.
Each participant will receive a $25 gift card. The study may benefit society by expanding knowledge of LGBTQ+
identified individuals’ experiences with harm, help-seeking, and well-being. This study may also help to shape
processes, trainings, and services that are sensitive and tailored to the experiences of LGBTQ+ -identified persons.
20. Does the study involve any of the following?
☐ Use of deception by researchers

☐ Use of drugs by subjects for study purposes
☐ Covert and/or participant observation

☐ Induction of mental and/or physical stress to subjects by researchers
☐ Procedures which risk physical harm to the subject

☐ Materials or behaviors commonly regarded as socially unacceptable

☐ Procedures by researchers that might be regarded as an invasion of privacy or cause a degree of discomfort
☒ Possible/probable disclosure of information by subjects to researchers that may be harmful to the subject
(e.g. child abuse, criminal behavior, immigration status)

a. If you checked any of the above procedures, please explain in detail, as well as providing the methods being
used to control or minimize the danger to the subjects.
Participants will be asked to report if they have experienced harm at any point in their lifetime, and will be
asked to think about their disclosure, help-seeking, and well-being following experiences with harm, which may
be distressing. Researchers will provide participants with a list of community resources, including referral
information for victim services and LGBTQ+ service providers they can contact if they experience distress. At
the start of the survey, participants will be reminded of their ability to stop participation at any point, without
affecting compensation or their relationship with ICJIA.
7

 Additionally, there will be potentially distressing questions asked regarding suicidal ideations and attempts.
Provided the sensitivity of such questions, researchers will include the phone number and website for a suicide
hotline in the survey.
We will include a page in the middle of the survey reminding participants to pause or take a break if needed to
self-regulate potential triggers from the survey questions, before continuing through the remainder of the
survey. Participants will also be reminded that the survey does not need to be completed all at once. If they are
completing the survey online, the survey platform will save their progress, and they can use the individualized
link to return to the last question they answered.
b. Please indicate the theoretical and/or methodological necessity for employing each procedure checked
above.
These procedures are necessary as this study seeks to better understand LGBTQ+ identified individuals’
experiences with harm, to improve the state’s knowledge of this underserved victim population, and to
improve victim service delivery.
21. If the study involves deception, when and how will the subjects be debriefed? Generally, the nature of the
deception and its necessity should be explained to the subjects.
N/A, the study does not involve deception.
22. Will other care or counseling be available or referrals made for the subject should he or she become physically
injured, stressed, uncomfortable, angry, or experience psychological difficulties as a result of participating in the
research?
☒ Yes

☐ No

☐ Not Applicable

If yes, please explain: Since participants will be responsible for self-administration of the survey (either through
the online link or in a paper copy), researchers will not be able to explicitly see any potential signs of distress.
However, participants will be provided with a list of community resources, including referral information for victim
services and LGBTQ+ service providers. This list of resources will appear on the screen at the beginning, midway
through the survey when participants are reminded to pause or take a break if needed, and at the end of the
survey, for those who choose to take it electronically. For those who prefer to receive a paper copy, a hard copy of
this list of resources will be included in the package mailed to them along with the survey. Additionally, there will
8

 be a page in the middle of the survey reminding participants to pause or take a break if needed to self-regulate
potential triggers from the survey questions, before continuing through the remainder of the survey, along with a
suicide hotline number that appears directly following the set of questions regarding suicidal ideations and
attempts.
23. Indicate whether subjects will be exposed to minimal or greater than minimal physical, psychological, or other
(e.g. social, economic) risk. Risk is considered minimal where the probability and magnitude of harm or
discomfort anticipated in the proposed research are not greater, in and of themselves, than those ordinarily
encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or tests.
a. Degree of physical risk to the subject
☐ Greater than minimal

☒ Minimal

☐ High

Please explain why you chose this designation: Physical risk of taking the survey is no more than ordinarily
encountered in daily life.
b. Degree of psychological risk to the subject
☐ Minimal

☒ Greater than minimal

☐ High

Please explain why you chose this designation: Participants will be answering survey questions regarding
prior experiences with harm (e.g., physical, sexual), which could pose moderate psychological risk that is not
encountered otherwise in daily life.
c. Degree of other (e.g. social, economic) risk to the subject
☐ Greater than minimal

☒ Minimal

☐ High

Please explain why you chose this designation: Other risk of taking the survey is no more than ordinarily
encountered in daily life.

E. COMPENSATION
24. Will the participants be compensated monetarily for entering the study?
☒ Yes

☐ No

a. If yes, what is the amount and source of the funds?
Amount: $25 gift card
Source of funds: Victims of Crime Act
b. If yes, how will that money be distributed to subjects (e.g. gift cards, cash)? Please explain.
9

 Gift cards or e-gift cards will be mailed or emailed to participants as payment. Victims of Crime Act
administrative funds have been earmarked for participant compensation. ICJIA staff will distribute these funds.
25. Are there other inducements planned to recruit subjects?
☐ Yes

☒ No

a. If yes, please explain:
F. CONFIDENTIALITY
26. Will any data be gathered through photographic, video, or audio recording devices?
☐ Yes

☒ No

a. If yes, how will the confidentiality of the materials produced by such devices be protected? Note: A separate
line of the consent form for the subjects to agree to be video/audio taped or photographed must be
included.
No such data will be collected.
b. What will be done with the still photos, videos, or audio recordings after the study has been completed? Will
this information be destroyed, kept xx number of years, used in publications, etc.? How does the investigator
define “completion” of the study?
No such data will be collected.
27. Will names or individual identifiers of subjects be recorded?
☒ Yes

☐ No

a. If yes, where will the names or other individual identifiers be recorded (e.g. on test protocols, on a separate
list with code numbers, etc.)?
Identifying information such as names, addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses will be stored in a
master list in a password-protected document on password-protected computers accessible only to research
staff. Each individual who contacts the study will be assigned a unique code. Only research staff will have
access to this master list that links a participant’s identifying information to their unique code. This code will be
used to track their participation in the study and to distribute payment. The master list will be maintained
separately from all other study materials.
b. If yes, describe project procedures for maintaining the security of these records at every point in the data
collection process.
Information about who has participated in our study will only be accessible to the research staff at ICJIA
working on this project. Records with identifiable information (i.e., master list of participants) will be password
10

 protected files that will be stored on password protected computers accessible only to research staff working
on this project. In this master list, participant will be assigned a unique identifier; this code will be used on all
study materials and spreadsheets.
c. If yes, would it be possible to conduct the proposed project without recording names or other individual
identifiers? Please explain why or why not.
No, it would not be possible to conduct the proposed project without recording names or other individual
identifiers. Researchers need to record personally identifying information to send study materials, including
payment.
d. If yes, will access to names be under your exclusive control?
☒ Yes

☐ No

i. If no, what will be done to protect the confidentiality of subjects? Who would have access to names or
other individual identifiers? Describe the procedures for maintaining security of paper files, automated
files, or other records.
N/A
ii. Will the names of subjects be included in any publication based on this study? If yes, please explain.
No, names of subjects will not be included in any publication based on this study.
28. Sometimes research findings are presented in a manner that permits knowledgeable readers to infer the identity
of a person used as a subject, even if names are omitted. Do you expect to present finding that may possibly
provide such clues?
☐ Yes

☒ No

a. If yes, please explain: N/A
G. INFORMED CONSENT
29. Please indicate the type of consent you will collect.
☒ Written (answer question d.)
☐ Verbal (answer questions a-d.)
☒ Electronic (answer questions a-d.)
☐ No consent needed (answer questions a-d.)
☒ Waiver of consent documentation (answer questions a-d.)
11

 a. Why do you not intend to use written forms?
A waiver of consent is needed for the screener only, which is intended to be short, accessible, and gather initial
information to determine eligibility. Prior to the screener, individuals will be informed about the content of the
screener, what will be done with the information collected in the screener and how such information will be
protected; participants will be asked if they would like to continue with the screener. “These questions will ask
you about your age, sexual orientation or gender identity, whether you have had experiences with harm, and if
you qualify, your contact information. This information will be kept in password protected files that will be
stored on password protected computers accessible only to research staff working on this project. Participation
in this screener is voluntary and you can stop your participation at any time; would you like to continue with
the screening questions?”
Written consent forms will be mailed to participants who prefer to receive the survey in a mailed paper format.
The package that these participants receive will include the informed consent form, a list of community
resources, the survey itself, and a postage paid envelope for returning the survey. Participants will be
instructed in the consent form that by returning their survey to ICJIA they are consenting to participate in this
research study.
For those who choose to take the survey administered online, we cannot obtain written consent. Instead we
will display an informed consent form at the start of the survey, following the screening questions, and by
clicking the arrow to continue, participants will consent to participating in the study.
b. In what manner and to what extend would potential subject be given advance information about the
procedure in which they are asked to participate? If using a contact letter, please include it.
For our screener, interested individuals will be given advance information about the content of the screener
and the processes to maintain the confidentiality of the information collected in the screener. The language to
be used is at the start of the screener.
For our survey, potential participants will be given advance information about study procedures via our
recruitment flyer, online recruitment mediums (e.g., website, social media), or phone calls to research staff.
This information will also be displayed online after eligible participants have answered screening questions on
the survey website, as well as in paper format along with the survey for those who choose to receive the
materials in that format. Participants that call ICJIA for the screener, rather than completing it online, will also
receive this information from the researcher they are screened by at that time. Participants will also be asked if
they consent to participate in the study before the start of the survey.
12

 c. In what matter would potential subjects be advised that their participation and continuation in the project
would be entirely voluntary? Please provide a copy of the text to be used.
Prior to the screener, interested individuals will be advised that completing the screener is voluntary and they
can stop anytime. Individuals will be asked if they would like to proceed: “Participation in this screener is
voluntary and you can stop your participation at any time; would you like to continue with the screening
questions?”
The informed consent form provided to eligible participants for the survey portions of the study will tell
individuals that their participation and continuation in the project is voluntary and that they can discontinue
their participation or withdraw their consent at any time without penalty. Additionally, at the beginning of our
survey, the online or paper survey will restate the following: “Participation in this study is voluntary; You may
choose to not answer a question (e.g., select “prefer not to answer”), end the survey, or withdraw your consent
at any time without penalty.”
d. Please attach a copy of the script or the consent form you will use to the end of this document.
All communication and recruitment materials have been attached.
30. Please give a detailed description of the process that will be used to obtain consent and answer all applicable
questions.
a. Who will obtain consent?
A waiver of consent is requested for the screener; participants will be asked if they would like to proceed with
the screener after being information about the content and confidentiality of the screener.
Research staff will obtain informed consent from survey participants, either electronically or in paper form.
b. How will consent be obtained?
For those that choose to complete the survey online, informed consent will be obtained electronically from the
survey participant. They will be instructed to click an arrow on the bottom of the screen to progress to the
study to indicate they consent to participate in the study.
For those who choose to receive their survey as a paper copy in the mail, the informed consent form will be
mailed to them along with the survey and the community resource list. The consent form will state that by
returning the survey to ICJIA by email that they consent to participating in the research study.
c. How often will consent be obtained (e.g. longitudinal or long-term field studies)?

13

 Consent will be obtained one time at the start of the survey. In the informed consent form text for the online
survey and the paper format survey, participants will be told they can discontinue their participation or
withdraw their consent at any time without penalty.
d. How will you verify the subject fully understands the consent?
All participants will be provided with contact information for the principal investigator and the Authority’s IRB
secretary to request further information about the study and their rights as a research participant.

e. How will project staff be trained to use the informed consent process?
All Authority research staff are certified in human subjects research.
31. Will the consent form be translated for non-English speaking participants?
☐ Yes

☒ No

a. If no, please explain why.
The participants of the survey are all expected to be English-speaking.
b. If yes, please provide an explanation of who will translate the forms and their qualifications.
N/A
32. Does the consent form you have attached fully comply with ICJIA instructions for consent forms and general
requirements outlines in the Code of Federal Regulations 46.116?
☒ Yes

☐ No

a. If no, please explain why.
N/A
33. Will all project staff be IRB certified and trained to follow the basic guidelines for the ethical care of subjects?
☒ Yes

☐ No

a. If no, please explain why.
N/A

TO BE COMPLETED BY PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR:
Project Name:

14

  Wu aim/way

Ma?a/11A ?Mi @?ii Nb

Signa ure of Principgbj nvestigator Date

 

 

 

 

 

Request approved Request denied RB requests modifications

Modifications, if requested:

 

Signature of IRS Chair Date

 

 

 

 

 

The IRB approval granted for this project expires:

15

Recruitment Flyers

3 Pages

Do you identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, queer, or gender non-conforming?
Have you experienced harm?

We want to learn more about LGBTQ+ individuals’ experiences with harm in Illinois.
To express your interest in a paid survey of your experiences of harm as a LGBTQ+
identified person contact us or visit:
[Insert Study Link]
You will be asked a few questions so we can send invited individuals the survey.
Participants who take the survey will receive a $25 gift card for their time.
This study will help improve responses to and services for LGBTQ+ victims in Illinois.
You can also contact the researchers @ the Center for Victim Studies
XXX-XXX-XXXX or cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

LGBTQ Study – Center
for Victim Studies
XXX-XXX-XXXX
Cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

LGBTQ Study – Center
for Victim Studies
XXX-XXX-XXXX
Cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

Scan for more information

LGBTQ Study – Center
for Victim Studies
XXX-XXX-XXXX
Cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

LGBTQ Study – Center
for Victim Studies
XXX-XXX-XXXX
Cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

LGBTQ Study – Center
for Victim Studies
XXX-XXX-XXXX
Cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

LGBTQ Study – Center
for Victim Studies
XXX-XXX-XXXX
Cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

All correspondence is confidential

 Do you identify as lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender,
queer, or gender nonconforming?

Do you identify as lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender,
queer, or gender nonconforming?

Do you identify as lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender,
queer, or gender nonconforming?

Do you identify as lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender,
queer, or gender nonconforming?

Do you identify as lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender,
queer, or gender nonconforming?

Have you experienced
harm?

Have you experienced
harm?

Have you experienced
harm?

Have you experienced
harm?

Have you experienced
harm?

We want to learn more
about LGBTQ+ experiences
with harm in Illinois.

We want to learn more
about LGBTQ+ experiences
with harm in Illinois.

We want to learn more
about LGBTQ+ experiences
with harm in Illinois.

We want to learn more
about LGBTQ+ experiences
with harm in Illinois.

We want to learn more
about LGBTQ+ experiences
with harm in Illinois.

To express your interest in
a paid survey of LGBTQ+
experiences with harm
contact us or visit:

To express your interest in
a paid survey of LGBTQ+
experiences with harm
contact us or visit:

To express your interest in
a paid survey of LGBTQ+
experiences with harm
contact us or visit:

To express your interest in
a paid survey of LGBTQ+
experiences with harm
contact us or visit:

To express your interest in
a paid survey of LGBTQ+
experiences with harm
contact us or visit:

[Insertlink]

[Insertlink]

[Insertlink]

[Insertlink]

[Insertlink]

cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

Scan for
for more
more information
information
Scan

Scan for more information

Scan for more information

Scan for more information

Scan for more information

312-793-XXXX

312-793-XXXX

312-793-XXXX

312-793-XXXX

312-793-XXXX

 Do you identify as lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender, queer, or
gender non-conforming?
Have you experienced harm?

We want to learn more about LGBTQ+ individuals’
experiences with harm in Illinois.
To express your interest in a paid survey of your
experiences with harm as a LGBTQ+ identified
person contact us or visit:
[Insert Study Link]
You will be asked a few questions so we can send
invited individuals the survey.
Participants who take the survey will receive a $25
gift card for their time.
This study will help improve responses to and
services for LGBTQ+ victims in Illinois.

You can contact the researchers @ the Center for
Victim Studies
XXX-XXX-XXXX or cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov
All correspondence is confidential

 Contact Script
2 Pages

ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Dear [Participant],
Thank you for your interest in participating in our study to understand the experiences
with harm (e.g., sexual, physical) and the help-seeking experiences of LGBTQ+. We are trying
to learn more about LGBTQ+ individuals’ service needs and experiences with support sources
(e.g., family, friends, agencies), following experiences with harm.
We are asking you to participate in a 45-60 minute survey that will ask you questions
about your experiences with harm, service needs, help-seeking, overall well-being, and some
basic demographic information. You will be offered a $25 gift card for your participation. We
will send the gift card to you within three business days of receiving the completed survey.
Please read the enclosed materials. We have included an informed consent sheet, the
survey, a postage paid envelope for you to return the survey, and a list of community resources.
The consent form gives you some additional information about the study. The list of community
resources may be helpful if you wish to contact someone regarding your experiences.
Please contact us if you have any questions or if you need a replacement copy of the
survey. You can reach research staff at 312-793-XXXX or via email at
CJA.VictimStudies@illinois.gov.
Thank you for your assistance!
Center for Victim Studies
Research and Analysis Unit
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams St., Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606
O: 312-793-8550
F: 312-793-8422

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Dear [Participant],
Thank you for your interest in participating in our study to understand the experiences
with harm (e.g., sexual, physical) and the help-seeking experiences of LGBTQ+. We are trying
to learn more about LGBTQ+ individuals’ service needs and experiences with support sources
(e.g., family, friends, agencies), following experiences with harm.
We are asking you to participate in a 45-60 minute survey that will ask you questions
about your experiences with harm, service needs, help-seeking, overall well-being, and some
basic demographic information. You will be offered a $25 gift card for your participation. We
will send the gift card to you within three business days of receiving the completed survey.
Please use the following link to access the survey
[INSERT LINK]
At the start of the survey, you will see an informed consent sheet, and a community
resource list for you to download. The consent form gives you some additional information about
the study. The list of community resources may be helpful if you wish to contact someone
regarding your experiences.
The link is customized to you, which means you can begin the survey and return to it at a
later date or time to complete it. Please contact us if you have any questions or if you have any
trouble accessing the survey using the link. You can reach research staff at 312-793-XXXX or
via email at CJA.VictimStudies@illinois.gov.
Thank you for your assistance!
Center for Victim Studies
Research and Analysis Unit
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams St., Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606
O: 312-793-8550
F: 312-793-8422

 Electronic and Written Consent

3 Pages

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Research Information and Consent for Participation in Research
Study of LGBTQ+ Victimization and Help-Seeking
You are being asked to participate in a research study conducted by researchers with the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority, a state agency that seeks to improve the administration
of justice in the state. The agency’s Center for Victim Studies focuses specifically on exploring
the experiences of victims. Researchers are required to provide a consent form such as this one to
tell you about the research, to explain that taking part is voluntary, to describe the risks and
benefits of participation, and to help you to make an informed decision. You should feel free to
ask the researchers any questions you may have.
Principal Investigators Name and Title:

Amanda L. Vasquez
Research Analyst, Center for Victim Studies
Dr. Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik
Research Manager, Center for Victim Studies

Department and Institution:

Research and Analysis Unit
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Address and Contact Information:

300 W. Adams St., Suite 200, Chicago, IL 60606
Phone: 312-793-8550
Email: Amanda.L.Vasquez@illinois.gov
Jaclyn.Kolnik@illinois.gov

Why am I being asked?
You are being asked to be a subject in a research study to help the State of Illinois better
understand the nature of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer/questioning (LGBTQ+)
individuals’ experiences with harm, the service needs of LGBTQ+-identifying individuals and
their experiences with agencies following harm. You have been asked to participate in this study
because you are an LGBTQ+-identifying adult (i.e., aged 18 and up) who has experienced harm
at some point in your life.
Your participation in this research is voluntary. Your decision whether to participate will not
affect your current or future dealings with the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
(ICJIA). If you decide to participate, you are free to withdraw at any time without affecting
that relationship.
Approximately 700 subjects may be involved in this research.
What is the purpose of this research?
The purpose of this research is to better understand the nature of LGBTQ+ experiences with
harm in Illinois, the service needs of LGBTQ+ individuals, and their experiences with agencies
following harm. Researchers are seeking to increase the state’s knowledge of LGBTQ+
LGBTQ+ Victimization Study, Online Survey, Version 1, 07/18/2018, Page 1 of 3

 experiences with harm and the resulting impacts, including mental health, substance use, coping,
and experiences with agencies following the harm. Researchers also want to learn how serviceseeking and -receiving for LGBTQ+ individuals differs from heterosexual and/or cisgender
individuals, to inform future service provision for this target group.
What procedures are involved?
If you agree to participate, you will be invited to complete an online survey. You will be asked
questions about the harmyou have experienced, service needs, experiences with agencies
following these harmful experiences, and some basic demographic information. We will also ask
for your contact information (i.e., name, phone or email address, and/or mailing address) to send
you the survey and/or payment for participation.
What are the potential risks and discomforts?
Some questions may make you uncomfortable or may cause you some emotional or
psychological distress. Please remember, it is up to you to decide whether to answer any of the
questions. We have provided a community resource list of adult victim service providers you
may contact if you experience discomfort or distress that can be downloaded from the on-line
survey or as part of your mail survey packet.
There may be other risks from the study that are not known at this time.
Will I be told about new information that may affect my decision to participate?
During the course of the study, you will be informed of any significant new research information
(either good or bad), such as changes in the risks or benefits resulting from participation in the
research or new alternatives to participation, that might cause you to change your mind about
continuing in the research. If new information is provided to you, your consent to continue
participating in this research may be re-obtained.
Are there benefits to taking part in the research?
You will receive no direct benefit from completing the survey. Although you will not directly
benefit, your participation will help the state gain a better understanding of LGBTQ+
experiences with harm, the service needs of LGBTQ+ individuals, and their experiences with
agencies following harm.
What other options are there?
You have the option to not complete the survey. Even if you initially choose to participate you
may change your decision at any time without penalty. You may also not answer a question at
any time.
What about privacy and confidentiality?

LGBTQ+ Victimization Study, Online Survey, Version 1, 07/18/2018, Page 2 of 3

 Only the research team will know that you are a research subject.
If you agree to be contacted for the survey you will be asked to provide contact information (i.e.,
name, phone number or email address, and/or mailing address). Your contact information will be
separated from the survey responses and replaced with a unique code. Only research staff will
have access to this master list that links a participant’s identifying information to their unique
code. This master list will be kept in a separate password protected file on password-protected
computers.
The information collected in the study will be used to write a report. No potentially identifying
information that can be linked directly to you will be included in the report or discussed with
others.
What are the costs for participating in this research?
There are no costs to you for participating in this research.
Will I be reimbursed for any of my expenses or paid for my participation in this research?
To our knowledge there are no expenses for participating in this research. You will be
reimbursed with a $25 gift card for your participation.
Can I withdraw or be removed from the study?
If you decide to participate, you are free to withdraw your consent and discontinue participation
at any time.
Who should I contact if I have questions?
If you have any questions regarding this project you may contact Amanda L. Vasquez or Dr.
Jaclyn Kolnik at 312-793-8550 or CJA.VictimStudies@illinois.gov
What are my rights as a research subject?
If you feel you have not been treated according to the descriptions in this form, or if you have
any questions about your rights as a research subject, including questions, concerns, complaints,
or to offer input, you may call the IRB secretary at 312-793-8550.
Remember:
Your participation in this research is voluntary. Your decision whether to participate will not
affect your current or future relations with ICJIA. If you decide to participate, you are free to
withdraw at any time without affecting that relationship.

LGBTQ+ Victimization Study, Online Survey, Version 1, 07/18/2018, Page 3 of 3

 Screener

3 Pages

LGBTQ+ Victimization Survey Screener
Thank you for your interest in helping us better understand the experiences of LGBTQ+
individuals in Illinois who have experienced harm.
First, we would like to ask a few questions to see if you qualify for the study.
These questions will ask you about your age, sexual orientation or gender identity, whether you
have had experiences with harm, and if you qualify, your contact information. This information
will be kept in password protected files that will be stored on password protected computers
accessible only to research staff working on this project.
Participation in this screener is voluntary and you can stop your participation at any time; would
you like to continue with the screening questions?
o
o

Yes  Continue to Q1
No  End of screener/end of call

Q1. How did you hear about this study?
a. Flyer
b. Service provider
c. Someone other than a service provider
d. Email or listserv
e. Social media (e.g. Facebook, Twitter)
f. Other, please describe: ______________
g. Not sure or don’t remember
h. Prefer not to answer
Q2. How old are you today? (Age in years)
If <18 years old  Continue to Q6
If 18 years or older, THEN:
Q3. Do you currently live in Illinois?
a. Yes
b. No  Continue to Q6
Q4. Do you consider yourself to be lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, or
gender non-conforming?
a. Yes
b. No  Continue to Q6
Q5. Thinking about your whole life, have you ever been physically or sexually harmed?
a. Yes
b. No  Continue to Q6

 Q6. Thank you for your interest in helping us better understand the experiences of LGBTQ+
individuals who have experienced harm. Unfortunately, you do not meet the qualifications to
take part in this study.
If you have any questions regarding this project you may contact Amanda L. Vasquez or Dr.
Jaclyn Kolnik at 312-793-8550 or CJA.VictimStudies@illinois.gov
Go to  END SCREENER
Q7. Would you be interested in participating in a paid survey?
a. Yes  Continue to Q8
b. No END SCREENER
Q8. Invited participants can take part in this study by completing an online survey or by
returning a completed paper survey.
Participants who prefer an online survey have two options. We can email you a link that
customized to you, which means you can begin the survey and return to it at a later date or time
to complete it link. Participants can also choose to complete the full survey now, which will take
approximately 45-60 minutes. If you do not have approximately 60 minutes to complete the
survey now, we recommend selecting an emailed link or mailed paper survey.
Participants who prefer a paper survey will be mailed a survey packet, including a postage paid
envelope to return the survey.
If invited, please select how you would like to participate in the study.
a. Receive an emailed online survey link
b. Complete the online survey now (approximately 45-60 minutes)
c. Mailed paper survey
Q9. Invited participants who return the survey will receive a $25 gift card or e-gift card. Gift
cards can be mailed or emailed.
If invited, please select how you would like to receive the gift card.
a. Emailed e-gift card
b. Mailed gift card
Q10. Please provide your contact information in the space provided. If you are invited to
participate in this study we will use this contact information to send you the survey and to send
you payment in the form of a gift card.
Name: (text box)
Phone number: (text box)
Email address: (text box)
If “mailed paper survey” for Q9 or “mailed gift card” for Q10 selected THEN:

 Street Address: (text box)
City: (text box)
State: (text box)
Zip Code: (text box)
If both phone number and email address provided THEN  Continue to Q11
Q11. Please select how you prefer to be contacted. (Allow multiple response options)
a. Email
b. Phone
If phone number provided in Q10 THEN  Continue to Q12
Q13. Is it safe to leave a message at this phone number?
a. Yes
b. No
Q14. Thank you for your interest in helping us better understand the experiences of LGBTQ+
individuals who have been harmed by violence.
Participants invited to take part in this study of LGBTQ+ individuals’ will be sent a survey. The
survey will take 45-60 minutes to complete. Participants who return the survey will receive a $25
gift card. This study will help to improve responses to and services for LGBTQ+ victims in
Illinois.
If you have any questions please contact researchers by email at
CJA.VictimStudies@illinois.gov or phone at XXX-XXX-XXX.
END SCREENER
Thank you for your interest in helping us better understand the experiences of LGBTQ+
individuals who have experienced harm.
Online screen ONLY: Below is a link to victim service resources and LGBTQ+ providers that
may be helpful to you or others.
[CLICK HERE] for a downloadable PDF list of these resources.
A new tab or window will open.
Phone screen ONLY: If you would like, we can send you list of community resources that you
may find helpful now or in the future. Would you like us to send you this information?
If you have any questions please contact researchers by email at
CJA.VictimStudies@illinois.gov or phone at XXX-XXX-XXX.

  Full Survey
46 Pages

LGBTQ Victimization Survey
Introduction
Thank you for your interest in helping us better understand the experiences of LGBTQ
individuals in Illinois who have been harmed by violence. Please continue to the next page.
The following screen will give you more information about the study, including the goals of the
study, your rights as a participant, and what to expect.
Informed Consent
[Insert Informed Consent]

 Q1. To confirm, how old are you today? _____ (textbox)
VICTIMIZATION EXPERIENCES
Q2. The items listed below refer to experiences that may have taken place at any point in your life.
Please indicate if you have had any of the following experiences when you were a child (under the
age of 12 or youth (i.e., 12- 20 years old) or as an adult (i.e., at least 21 years old).
Child
Adult Older
(under Youth (21- Adult
12
(12 59
(60
years
20
years years
old)
years old ) or
old)
older)
1. Physical force was used
against me in a robbery or
mugging.
2. An immediate family
member, significant other,
or very close friend died
because of a serious injury or
homicide.
3. Someone (parent, other
family member, significant
other, friend, acquaintance,
stranger, or someone else) used
physical force against me to
have intercourse, oral or anal
sex against my wishes or when
I was helpless (Ex: I was asleep
or intoxicated).
4. Someone touched private
parts of my body, made me
touch their body, or tried to
make me have sex against my
wishes.
5. Someone has threatened me
with a weapon like a knife or
gun.
6. Someone, through force,
fraud, or coercion made me
provide labor services or
involved me in the commercial
sex trade.

I have not Not sure
Prefer not
had this
or don’t
to answer
experience remember

 7. Someone held me captive
against my will.
8. Someone purposely set my
house on fire.
9. Someone repeatedly watched
me, followed me, or made
unwanted contacts towards me.
10. I was hurt by someone's car
when they were driving under
the influence or were distracted.

Q3. The items listed below refer to experiences that may have taken place at specific points in your
life. Please indicate if you have any of the following experiences.

Yes

No

Not sure
Prefer
or don’t
not to
remember answer

1. As a child or youth (under the age of 21) a parent,
caregiver, or other person slapped me repeatedly, beat,
or otherwise attacked me.
2. As an adult (over the age of 21), a significant
other, date, family member, stranger, or someone else
kicked, beat, slapped, or otherwise physically harmed
me.
3. As an older adult (over the age of 60), someone,
such as a caregiver, child, or other person, physically
abused, threatened, or tricked me to give them money.
[SKIP LOGIC FOR ONLINE: If NO victimization experienced  End Survey Message
If YES to Q2 or Q3 THEN display Q4]
Q4. You indicated you have had the following experiences at some point in your life.
[ONLINE: Display “Yes” responses to Q2 and Q3]
Do you have any reason to suspect that any of the experiences you selected was a hate crime or
crime of prejudice or bigotry?
[CARRY FORWARD: “Yes” Selections from Q2 and Q3]

 Yes

No

Not sure
Prefer
or don’t
not to
remember answer

1. Physical force was used against me in a robbery or
mugging.
2. An immediate family member, significant other,
or very close friend died because of a serious injury
or homicide.
3. Someone (parent, other family member, significant
other, friend, acquaintance, stranger, or someone else)
used physical force against me to have intercourse,
oral or anal sex against my wishes or when I was
helpless (Ex: I was asleep or intoxicated).
4. Someone touched private parts of my body, made
me touch their body, or tried to make me have sex
against my wishes.
5. As a child, a parent, caregiver, or other person
slapped me repeatedly, beat, or otherwise attacked
me.
6. As an adult, a significant other, date, family
member, stranger, or someone else kicked, beat,
slapped, or otherwise physically harmed me.
7. Someone has threatened me with a weapon like a
knife or gun.
8. As an older adult, someone physically abused,
threatened, or tricked me to give them money.
9. Someone, through force, fraud, or coercion made
me provide labor services or involved me in the
commercial sex trade.
10. Someone held me captive against my will.
11. Someone purposely set my house on fire.
12. Someone repeatedly watched me, followed me, or
made unwanted contacts towards me.
13. I was hurt by someone’s car when they were
driving under the influence or were distracted.
[SKIP LOGIC FOR ONLINE: If NO to all items  Continue to Q5
If YES to Q4 THEN display Q4a]
Q4a. You indicated the following experience(s) was a hate crime or crime of prejudice or bigotry.
An offender(s) can target people for a variety of reasons, but we are only going to ask you about a few
today. Do you suspect the offender(s) targeted you because of:
[CARRY FORWARD: “Yes” Selections from Q4]

 Your Your Your
race religion ethnic
or
national
origin
1. Physical force was used against
me in a robbery or mugging.
2. An immediate family member,
significant other, or very
close friend died because of a
serious injury or homicide.
3. Someone (parent, other family
member, significant other, friend,
acquaintance, stranger, or someone
else) used physical force against
me to have intercourse, oral or anal
sex against my wishes or when I
was helpless (Ex: I was asleep or
intoxicated).
4. Someone touched private parts
of my body, made me touch their
body, or tried to make me have sex
against my wishes.
5. As a child, a parent, caregiver,
or other person slapped me
repeatedly, beat, or otherwise
attacked me.
6. As an adult, a significant other,
date, family member, stranger, or
someone else kicked, beat, slapped,
or otherwise physically harmed me.
7. Someone has threatened me
with a weapon like a knife or gun.
8. As an older adult, someone
physically abused, threatened, or
tricked me to give them money.
9. Someone, through force, fraud,
or coercion made me provide labor
services or involved me in the
commercial sex trade.
10. Someone held me captive
against my will.
11. Someone purposely set my
house on fire.

Any
Your
disability gender
you may
have

Your
Prefer
sexual
not to
orientation answer

 12. Someone repeatedly watched
me, followed me, or made
unwanted contacts towards me.
13. I was hurt by someone’s car
when they were driving under the
influence or were distracted.

 Q5. You indicated you have had the following experiences at some point in your life.
[Carry forward “Yes” Selections from Q2 and Q3]
Please select the experience that was most recent.

o
o

Physical force was used against me in a robbery or mugging.

o

Someone (parent, other family member, significant other, friend, acquaintance, stranger, or someone else)
used physical force against me to have intercourse, oral or anal sex against my wishes or when I was
helpless (Ex: I was asleep or intoxicated).

o

Someone touched private parts of my body, made me touch their body, or tried to make me have sex
against my wishes.

o
o

As a child, a parent, caregiver, or other person slapped me repeatedly, beat, or otherwise attacked me.

o
o
o

Someone has threatened me with a weapon like a knife or gun.

o
o
o
o

Someone held me captive against my will.

An immediate family member, significant other, or very close friend died because of a serious injury or
homicide.

As an adult, a significant other, date, family member, stranger, or someone else kicked, beat, slapped, or
otherwise physically harmed me.

As an older adult, someone physically abused, threatened, or tricked me to give them money.
Someone, through force, fraud, or coercion made me provide labor services or involved me in the
commercial sex trade.

Someone purposely set my house on fire.
Someone repeatedly watched me, followed me, or made unwanted contacts towards me.
I was hurt by someone’s car when they were driving under the influence or were distracted.

 Q5a. As you answer the next set of questions think of the most recent experience.
You indicated this experience was: [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE HERE].
When did this experience happen?
If this experience is ongoing, or happens often, please think of the last time this
experience happened.
Month _______(Dropdown menu)
Year _______(Text box)
Q5b. Did the experience occur more than once with the same person, or persons, over a period of
time?
o Yes
o No  Continue to Q5d
o Prefer not to answer  Continue to Q5d
Q5c. How many times have you had this type of experience?
o 1 time
o 2-4 times
o 5-10 times
o More than 10 times
o Prefer not to answer
Q5d. How old were you when this experience happened, or if it happened more than once with
the same person or persons, when did it first happen?
______(Drop down list of ages 1-100, and prefer not to answer)
Q5e. How many people did this?
o One
o Two
o Three or more
o Don’t know
o Prefer not to answer
Q5f. What was your relationship to the person(s) at the time who did this? (Check ALL that
apply).
Relative
Intimate Partner

 Well known or casual acquaintance (e.g., friends, dates, roommates, caregivers,
coworkers)
Police officer or other law enforcement official
Stranger
Other ____________________
Prefer not to answer
Q5g. What was the gender of the person(s) that did this? (Check ALL that apply).
Cisgender male
Cisgender female
Transgender male
Transgender female
Gender non-confirming
Don’t know
Prefer not to answer
Q5h. Where did this experience, [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE HERE] happen?
o In your home
o Near your home
o In or near a friend, relative, or neighbor’s home
o While riding in any vehicle
o In a commercial space (e.g. bank, store, dance club)
o In a parking lot or garage
o In an open area (e.g. park, sidewalk)
o At school
o At work
o Other __________
o Prefer not to answer
Q5i. Did you experience any of the following forms of physical injury? (Check ALL that apply).
None
Bruises, black eye, cuts, scratches, swelling, chipped tooth
Knocked unconscious
Internal injuries
Broken bones or teeth knocked out
Gun shot, bullet wounds
Knife or stab wounds
Other __________
Prefer not to answer

 Q5j. Were you or the person(s) who did this using any alcohol or drugs when this happened? If
the experienced happened more than once, were alcohol and drugs ever used?
o Yes
o No Continue to Q6
o Prefer not to answer  Continue to Q6
Q5k. You indicated that you or the person(s) had been using alcohol or drugs when this
experience, [INSERT MOST IMPACTFUL EXPERIENCE HERE] happened.
Please select who was using alcohol or drugs.
If this experience happened more than once please select who was most likely to be drinking of
using drugs when this type of experience happened. (Check ALL that apply).

Alcohol

1. I had been using
2. The person(s) who did this had been using

Drugs

Neither

Not sure
Prefer
or don’t
not to
remember answer

 HELP-SEEKING
Q6. As you answer the next set of questions think of the experience that impacted you most. You
indicated this experience was: [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE HERE].
Have you ever talked with anyone about the experience? (Check one)

o
o
o

Yes
No  Skip to QX
Prefer not to answer  Skip to QX

Q6a. We are interested in knowing who you talked to about this experience.
People may learn about your experience in a variety of ways. For instance, you may have
decided to tell them or due to some other circumstance you talked with them about your
experience (e.g., accessing medical care, missing work, the police came to talk to you, someone
witnessed the event and asked you about it).
Please indicate if you ever talked to any of the following people about the most recent
experience. You indicated this experience was: [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE
HERE].
Yes
1. A romantic partner
2. A parent or step-parent
3. A family member/relative other than parents
4. A friend
5. A minister, priest, rabbi, or other religious figure
6. A psychiatrist or other mental health counselor
7. A medical doctor, other medical person, or
emergency room staff
8. A police officer
9. Victim service provider (not LGBTQ-specific), such
as a victim advocate.
10. LGBTQ specific service provider
11. Employer
12. Teacher, professor or coach
13. Other school staff such as principals, school social
workers, or administrative staff
14. Community member
15. Co-worker
16. 1-800 number/hotline

No

Prefer not
to answer

  

17. Attorney/other legal service provider

 

 

18. Other person:

 

 

 

 

 

 

You indicated you talked to another person, not listed above, about your experience. Please describe
your relationship to this person.
(Text box available for answer).
Q6b. We are also interested in how individuals responded when you told them about the most recent
experience. You indicated this experience was: [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE HERE].
Thinking about the first person you talked to in each category, please answer the following
questions. For example, if you talked with more than one friend, tell us about the first friend you
talked with.
Was this person helpful?
Very
Somewhat
unhelpful unhelpful

1. A romantic partner
2. A parent or step-parent
3. A family member/relative other
than parents
4. A friend
5. A minister, priest, rabbi, or
other religious figure
6. A psychiatrist or other mental
health counselor
7. A medical doctor, other medical
person, or emergency room staff
8. A police officer
9. Victim service provider (not
LGBTQ-specific)
10. LGBTQ specific service
provider
11. Employer
12. Teacher, professor or coach
13. Other school staff such as
principals, school social workers,
or administrative staff
14. Community member
15. Co-worker
16. 1-800 number/hotline

Neither
helpful
nor
unhelpful

Somewhat Very
helpful
helpful

Prefer
not to
answer

 17. Attorney/other legal service
provider
18. Other person
Q5c. Listed below are the people you talked to about this experience: [INSERT MOST RECENT
EXPERIENCE HERE].
Who was the first person you talked to about this experience?

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

A romantic partner
A parent or step-parent
A family member/relative other than parents
A friend
A minister, priest, rabbi, or other religious figure
A psychiatrist or other mental health counselor
A medical doctor, other medical person, or emergency room staff
A police officer
Victim service provider (not LGBTQ-specific)
LGBTQ specific service provider
Employer
Teacher, professor or coach
Other school staff such as principals, school social workers, or administrative staff
Community member
Co-worker
1-800 number/hotline
Attorney/other legal service provider
Other person

Q5d. At what age did you first talk to this person?
_________(Drop down list of ages 1-100, and prefer not to answer)
Q5e. People may learn about your experience in a variety of ways. For instance, you may have
decided to tell them or due to some other circumstance you talked with them about your experience

 (e.g., accessing medical care, missing work, the police came to talk to you, someone witnessed the
event and asked you about it).
For the following questions, think about the first person you talked to in each category and select
the response that best corresponds with how they learned about the most recent experience that you
had: [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE HERE].
I wanted or
needed to
tell them.

1. A romantic partner
2. A parent or step-parent
3. A family
member/relative other
than parents
4. A friend
5. A minister, priest,
rabbi, or other religious
figure
6. A psychiatrist or other
mental health counselor
7. A medical doctor, other
medical person, or
emergency room staff
8. A police officer
9. Victim service provider
(not LGBTQ-specific)
10. LGBTQ specific
service provider
11. Employer
12. Teacher, professor or
coach
13. Other school staff
such as principals, school
social workers, or
administrative staff
14. Community member
15. Co-worker
16. 1-800 number/hotline
17. Attorney/other legal

They learned
about my
experience
and so I talked
to them.

They asked
me what was
wrong and I
felt I had to
tell them.

I did not want
to tell them, but
had to in order
to get what I
needed.

Prefer
not to
answer

  

service provider

 

 

18. Other person

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SOCIAL REACTIONS
Q6. The following is a list of reactions that other people sometime have when responding to a
person with this experience.
Please indicate how often you experienced each of the listed responses from the first person you
talked to about this experience, who you indicated was [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE
HERE].
Never

1. Told you that you were
irresponsible or not cautious enough.
2. Reassured you that you are a good
person.
3. Treated you differently in some
way than before you told them that
made you uncomfortable.
4. Told you to go on with your life.
5. Comforted you by telling you it
would be all right or by holding you.
6. Tried to take control of what you
did/decisions you made.
7. Has been so upset that they
needed reassurance from you.
8. Made decisions or did things for
you.
9. Told you that you could have
done more to prevent this experience
from occurring.
10. Provided information and
discussed options.
11. Told you to stop thinking about
it.
12. Expressed so much anger at the
offender that you had to calm them
down.
13. Avoided talking to you or
spending time with you.

Rarely

Sometimes Frequently Always

Prefer
not to
answer

 14. Treated you as if you were a
child or somehow incompetent.
15. Helped you get information of
any kind about coping with the
experience.
16. Made you feel like you didn’t
know how to take care of yourself.

 SECONDARY VICTIMIZATION
Q7. As part of this study, we are trying to understand how agencies in the community treat
victims of violence.
By agency, we mean an organization in your community such as a hospital, health clinic, police
department, social services, victim services, university offices, property managers, or other
groups in your community who provide services to or assist individuals.
These next few questions will ask you whether or not you have experienced certain things.
Please indicate if you had any of these experiences below when you connected with someone
from an agency.
Yes

1. Someone seemed reluctant to provide
services, take a report, or treat me
2. Someone refused to provide services,
take a report, or treat me
3. Someone stated that or asked if I could
have done anything to prevent or stop
the victimization
4. Someone asked me why my memory
was vague or scattered
5. Someone asked about my prior
victimization history in a way that
made me uncomfortable
6. Someone told you the case was not
serious enough to pursue or there was
not enough evidence
7. Someone seemed cold and
unwelcoming
8. Someone gave me information about
the victimization I experienced or the
impact of trauma
9. Someone seemed to believe my story
10. Someone supported my decisions
11. Someone said there was nothing they
could do
12. Someone blamed me for the
victimization
13. Someone used a gender pronoun that
does not match my gender identity

No

Not sure
or don’t
remember

Not
applicable

Prefer
not to
answer

 14. Someone seemed to treat me unfairly
or differently than others
15. Someone gave me information on
services for victims

 PAUSE – BREATHE
If you need a moment to pause, breathe, and return back to the study, please do so now.
When you are ready to move on, please click the arrow on the right to continue.

 LAW ENFORCEMENT REPORTING
Q8. Did you report [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE] to law enforcement/police?

o
o
o
o
o

Yes, I reported the incident
Yes, someone else reported the incident
No  Continue to Q9
Don’t know  Continue to Q9
Prefer not to answer  Continue to Q9

Q8a. Why didn't you report [INSERT MOST RECENT EXPERIENCE] to the police?
There is no right or wrong answer, we would just like to learn more about your decision to not
report to the police. Please select all that apply.
I feared retaliation against me or my family
I feared I would have to tell them I identify as LGBTQ
I didn’t want to get involved
I reported my crime to someone else (e.g. guard, school official, pastor, counselor,
etc.)
I was concerned I would not be believed
I was concerned I would be blamed
I was incapacitated
I wasn’t sure the crime took place
I didn’t have time to attend trials
I could not miss work
I didn’t want the offender to get in trouble
I didn’t trust the police
I didn’t trust the State’s Attorney
I didn’t think the police could do anything to help
I didn’t think the police would help me
Too young/I was a child/Did not know what to do
Other (Specify) _______________
Don’t know
Prefer not to answer

 SERVICES (NEED, SEEK, RECEIVE)
Q9. We would also like to learn more about what services you may have needed and your
experience in seeking or receiving these services.
As a result of the experience you noted was most recent, which was: [INSERT MOST RECENT
EXPERIENCE], did you need help or assistance with any of the following?

Yes

Child care: Someone to watch my child/ren while I take care of things
regarding my victimization.
Children’s services: Services to help my child/ren deal with directly
experiencing or witnessing victimization.
Civil legal assistance: Someone to help me with non-criminal legal issues
such as: acquiring identification or replacing documents, family matters
(e.g., divorce, custody, child support), financial matters (e.g., bill collection
or credit counseling), immigration matters (e.g., visas), or orders of
protection.
Counseling: Someone who is trained and trustworthy to talk about what
happened to me. You may talk with this person one-on-one, along with
family members, or as part of a larger group who may have similar
experiences.
Crime scene services: Someone to help clean-up the space in which a crime
occurred.
Criminal/juvenile justice system information/advocacy: Information
about the criminal/juvenile justice system and what I can expect will happen.
Crisis intervention: Someone to talk to about how you are feeling on an
immediate or short-term basis.
Emergency shelter: A safe place to stay on a temporary/emergency basis.
Emergency funds/loan: Financial help to pay for emergency costs such as
hygiene/basic need products, rental assistance, utilities, and shelter/hotel
stay, etc., resulting from my victimization.
Funeral/burial services: Financial help to pay for the for the funeral/burial
of a loved one who was murdered.
Help applying for crime victim compensation: Someone to help apply for
financial assistance due to costs resulting from my victimization.
Housing: Someone to help me find a safe place to live permanently.
Information/advocacy on public resources: Information about and help
with seeking public resources and benefits (e.g., Medicare, welfare) that may
be available to me.
Language/translation services: Someone to explain things to me in my
native language.

No

Prefer
not to
answer

 Life skills (e.g., employment, education, financial): Someone to help me
with finding a job, increasing my skills/education, or learning how to
manage a budget on my own.
Medical/health care services: Help for a physical injury resulting from my
victimization.
Mental health: Someone to provide therapy or to prescribe medication to
improve my mood.
Relocation: Someone to help me find a new safe place to live where the
offender(s) does not know where I am.
Substance abuse: Counseling or other services to help me deal with alcohol
and/or substance addiction/abuse issues.
Transportation: Someone to help me with getting to places that will help
me deal with my victimization.
Other (Specify) ____________________
None of these
Don’t know
If NO to all items  Continue to Q9
If YES to Q9 THEN display Q9a
Q9a. You indicated that you needed help with the following services. Did you seek help for any
of the following services?
Yes

Child care: Someone to watch my child/ren while I take care of
things regarding my victimization.
Children’s services: Services to help my child/ren deal with
directly experiencing or witnessing victimization.
Civil legal assistance: Someone to help me with non-criminal
legal issues such as: acquiring identification or replacing
documents, family matters (e.g., divorce, custody, child support),
financial matters (e.g., bill collection or credit counseling),
immigration matters (e.g., visas), or orders of protection.
Counseling: Someone who is trained and trustworthy to talk about
what happened to me. You may talk with this person one-on-one,
along with family members, or as part of a larger group who may
have similar experiences.
Crime scene services: Someone to help clean-up the space in
which a crime occurred.
Criminal/juvenile justice system information/advocacy:
Information about the criminal/juvenile justice system and what I
can expect will happen.

No

Don’t
Prefer
know/Can’t not to
remember
answer

 Crisis intervention: Someone to talk to about how you are feeling
on an immediate or short-term basis.
Emergency shelter: A safe place to stay on a
temporary/emergency basis.
Emergency funds/loan: Financial help to pay for emergency costs
such as hygiene/basic need products, rental assistance, utilities,
and shelter/hotel stay, etc., resulting from my victimization.
Funeral/burial services: Financial help to pay for the for the
funeral/burial of a loved one who was murdered.
Help applying for crime victim compensation: Someone to help
apply for financial assistance due to costs resulting from my
victimization.
Housing: Someone to help me find a safe place to live
permanently.
Information/advocacy on public resources: Information about
and help with seeking public resources and benefits (e.g.,
Medicare, welfare) that may be available to me.
Language/translation services: Someone to explain things to me
in my native language.
Life skills (e.g., employment, education, financial): Someone to
help me with finding a job, increasing my skills/education, or
learning how to manage a budget on my own.
Medical/health care services: Help for a physical injury resulting
from my victimization.
Mental health: Someone to provide therapy or to prescribe
medication to improve my mood.
Relocation: Someone to help me find a new safe place to live
where the offender(s) does not know where I am.
Substance abuse: Counseling or other services to help me deal
with alcohol and/or substance addiction/abuse issues.
Transportation: Someone to help me with getting to places that
will help me deal with my victimization.
Other (Specify) ____________________
None of these
Don’t know
If YES to any items in Q9a  Continue to Q12
If NO to any items in Q9a, THEN:

 Q9b. Why didn’t you seek the services and support you needed? Please select all that apply.
(Check box available).
Did not know how or where to get support services
Did not have child care
Unsure of how to find services in one’s primary language
Concerned that I would have to tell them my LGTBQ identity
Concerned services would not be sensitive to one’s beliefs
Concerned services would not be sensitive to one’s immigration status
Concerned services would not be accessible due to a disability
Assumed one did not qualify for services
No transportation to reach service providers
No service providers nearby
Wait list for services was too long
Worried about being blamed or not believed
Wasn’t sure these services would be able to help
Cost of counseling or services
Did not have insurance to cover it
Was a child or was too young
Other (Specify) _______________
Don’t know
Q10. You indicated that you sought help for the following services listed below.
Did you receive help you sought?
If you received any help, regardless of how good the assistance was, please select "yes."
We will ask about how well these needs were met later in the survey.
[CARRY FORWARD from Q9a]
Yes

Child care: Someone to watch my child/ren while I take care of
things regarding my victimization.
Children’s services: Services to help my child/ren deal with
directly experiencing or witnessing victimization.
Civil legal assistance: Someone to help me with non-criminal
legal issues such as: acquiring identification or replacing
documents, family matters (e.g., divorce, custody, child support),
financial matters (e.g., bill collection or credit counseling),
immigration matters (e.g., visas), or orders of protection.

No

Don’t
Prefer
know/Can’t not to
remember
answer

 Counseling: Someone who is trained and trustworthy to talk about
what happened to me. You may talk with this person one-on-one,
along with family members, or as part of a larger group who may
have similar experiences.
Crime scene services: Someone to help clean-up the space in
which a crime occurred.
Criminal/juvenile justice system information/advocacy:
Information about the criminal/juvenile justice system and what I
can expect will happen.
Crisis intervention: Someone to talk to about how you are feeling
on an immediate or short-term basis.
Emergency shelter: A safe place to stay on a
temporary/emergency basis.
Emergency funds/loan: Financial help to pay for emergency costs
such as hygiene/basic need products, rental assistance, utilities,
and shelter/hotel stay, etc., resulting from my victimization.
Funeral/burial services: Financial help to pay for the for the
funeral/burial of a loved one who was murdered.
Help applying for crime victim compensation: Someone to help
apply for financial assistance due to costs resulting from my
victimization.
Housing: Someone to help me find a safe place to live
permanently.
Information/advocacy on public resources: Information about
and help with seeking public resources and benefits (e.g.,
Medicare, welfare) that may be available to me.
Language/translation services: Someone to explain things to me
in my native language.
Life skills (e.g., employment, education, financial): Someone to
help me with finding a job, increasing my skills/education, or
learning how to manage a budget on my own.
Medical/health care services: Help for a physical injury resulting
from my victimization.
Mental health: Someone to provide therapy or to prescribe
medication to improve my mood.
Relocation: Someone to help me find a new safe place to live
where the offender(s) does not know where I am.
Substance abuse: Counseling or other services to help me deal
with alcohol and/or substance addiction/abuse issues.
Transportation: Someone to help me with getting to places that
will help me deal with my victimization.
Other (Specify) ____________________
None of these
Don’t know
If YES to any items in Q10  Continue to Q12

 If NO to any items in Q10, THEN:
Q10a. Why didn’t you receive the services and support you needed? Please select all that
apply.
Did not know how or where to get support services
Did not have child care
Did not have services in one’s primary language
Services were not sensitive to one’s beliefs
Services were not sensitive to one’s immigration status
Services were not accessible due to disability
Did not qualify for services
No transportation to reach service providers
No service providers nearby
Wait list for services was too long
Was blamed or not believed
Cost of counseling or services
Did not have insurance to cover it
Was a child or was too young
Scared
Other (Specify) ____________
Don’t know

 Q11. Overall, how well do you think your needs were met?
This
need
was
not
met
Child care
Children’s services
Civil legal assistance
Counseling
Crime scene services
Criminal/juvenile justice system
information/advocacy
Crisis intervention
Emergency shelter
Emergency funds/loan
Funeral/burial services
Help applying for crime victim
compensation
Housing
Information/advocacy on public
resources
Language/translation services
Life skills (e.g., employment,
education, financial)
Medical/health care services
Mental health
Relocation
Substance abuse
Transportation
Other (Specify)
____________________
None of these
Don’t know

A
little
of this
need
was
met

Some
of this
need
was
met

Most
of this
need
was
met

All of
this
need
was
met

Prefer
not to
answer

 STRESSFUL LIFE EVENTS
Q12. The items listed below refer to other stressful events that may have taken place at any
point in your entire life, including early childhood. Please indicate if you have any of the
following stressful experiences.
Yes

1. I have had a chronic illness or currently have a chronic illness,
such as HIV/AIDS.
2. I have been in a life-threatening accident.
3. An immediate family member, significant other, or very close
friend passed away because of suicide.
4. A parent, significant other, or family member repeatedly
ridiculed me, put me down, ignored me, or told me I was no
good
5. I was a witness when another person was killed, seriously
injured, or sexually or physically assaulted.
6. Someone used my identification without my permission for
purchases or employment, or lied to me for financial gain.
7. I have been in other situations in which I was seriously
injured or my life was in danger (e.g., involved in military
combat or living in a war zone).
8. I have been homeless, evicted, or had to find different places
to sleep for short periods of time, such as on a friend’s couch.
9. I was kicked out of my family home or have run away from
home.
10. Others have teased or threatened me, have spread rumors
about me, or hit, shoved, or otherwise hurt me, while I was at
school or work, or electronically (e.g., via text, Instagram,
Facebook, or other social media).
11. Someone has threatened to out me, or tell others about my
LGBTQ identity without my permission.
12. I have been placed in the care of the Department of Children
and Family Services or Child Protective Services, including
foster care, group homes, or rehabilitation/treatment facilities.

No

Prefer
not to
answer

 Q12a. Below are additional stressful events that may have taken place at any point in your
entire life, including early childhood. Please indicate if you have had any of the following
stressful experiences.
Yes

No

Prefer
not to
answer

13. At school or work, I was disciplined for fighting back against
bullies, or was disciplined more harshly than others.
14. A police officer or other law enforcement official refused to
take a complaint, or arrested me for making a complaint.
15. I have been unfairly denied medical care or provided medical
care that was worse than what other people get.
16. I have been unfairly denied a promotion or fired, or for
unfair reasons have not been hired for a job.
17. I have been unfairly prevented from moving into a
neighborhood because the landlord or realtor refused to sell or
rent me a house or apartment, or have moved into a neighborhood
where neighbors unfairly made life difficult for me.
Q12b. Have you been in other situations that were extremely distressing that have not been
covered above.
1. Yes (please describe):
_____________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________
2. No
3. Prefer not to answer
If YES to Q12, THEN:
Q13. Of the experiences you noted above, what do you think is the main reason for these
experiences?
1. Your Ancestry or National Origins
2. Your Race
3. Your Gender Identity
4. Your Gender Expression
5. Your Sexual Orientation
6. Your Age
7. Your Religion
8. Your Height
9. Your Weight
10. Some other Aspect of Your Physical Appearance

 11. Your Education or Income Level
12. Your Citizenship Status
13. Other (please describe): _________________
14. Prefer not to answer

 DEPRESSION
Q14. Below is a list of some of the ways you may have felt or behaved.
Please indicate how often you have felt this way during the past week.
Rarely
or none
of the
time
(less
than 1
day)
1. I was bothered by things that usually don’t
bother me.
2. I had trouble by keeping my mind on what
I was doing.
3. I felt depressed.
4. I felt that everything I did was an effort.
5. I felt hopeful about the future.
6. I felt fearful.
7. My sleep was restless.
8. I was happy.
9. I was lonely.
10. I could not “get going.”

Some
or a
little of
the
time (12 days)

Occasionally
or a
moderate
amount of
time (3-4
days)

All of
the
time
(5-7
days)

Prefer
not to
answer

 PSTD
Q15.
Below is a list of problems that people sometimes have in response to a very stressful
experience.
Please read each problem carefully and indicate if you have felt or experienced the following
during the past month:
Every
day
1. Had nightmares about
the event(s) or thought
about the event(s) when
you did not want to.
2. Tried hard not to think
about the event(s) or
went out of your way to
avoid situations that
reminded you of the
event(s).
3. Been constantly on
guard, watchful, or easily
startled.
4. Felt numb or detached
from people, activities, or
your surroundings.
5. Felt guilty or unable to
stop blaming yourself or
others for the event(s) or
any problems the
event(s) may have
caused.

Several
times a
week

2-3
times a
month

Once Never
a
Month

Prefer
not to
answer

 SUICIDE
Q16. Have you seriously thought about killing yourself (e.g., thought about how you would do it,
made a plan)? (Check one)

o
o
o
o

No, never
Yes, at some time in my life but not in the past 12 months
Yes, in the past 12 months
Prefer not to answer

Q17. Have you ever tried to kill yourself? (Check one)

o No, never
o Yes, at some time in my life but not in the past 12 months
o Yes, in the past 12 months
o Prefer not to answer
If you need someone to talk to about these experiences or thoughts, please call the Lifeline (800)
273-TALK (8255), or visit their website at National Suicide Prevention Lifeline

 COPING
Q18. This set of questions also asks you to think about ways you've been dealing with stress in
your life.
Please select how often you've been doing the following to deal with stress in the past month.
Every
day
1. I've been turning to work or other
activities to take my mind off things.
2. I've been concentrating my efforts on
doing something about the situation
I'm in.
3. I've been saying to myself "this isn't
real."
4. I've been using alcohol or other
drugs to make myself feel better.
5. I've been getting emotional support
from others.
6. I've been giving up trying to deal
with it.
7. I've been taking action to try to make
the situation better.

Several 2-3 times a Once a Never Prefer
times a
month
Month
not to
week
answer

 8. I've been refusing to believe that it
has happened
9. I've been saying things to let my
unpleasant feelings escape.
10. I’ve been getting help and advice
from other people.
Q18a. This set of questions also asks you to think about ways you've been dealing with stress in
your life.
Please select how often you've been doing the following to deal with stress in the past month.
Every
day

Several 2-3 times a Once a Never Prefer
times a
month
Month
not to
week
answer

11. I've been using alcohol or other
drugs to help me get through it.
12. I've been trying to see it in a
different light, to make it seem more
positive.
13. I’ve been criticizing myself.
14. I've been trying to come up with a
strategy about what to do.
15. I've been getting comfort and
understanding from someone.
16. I've been giving up the attempt to
cope.
17. I've been looking for something
good in what is happening.
18. I've been doing something to think
about it less, such as watching TV,
reading, exercising, sleeping, playing
video games, or shopping.
19. I've been accepting the reality of the
fact that it has happened.
20. I've been expressing my negative
feelings.

Q18b. This set of questions also asks you to think about ways you've been dealing with stress in
your life.
Please select how often you've been doing the following to deal with stress in the past month.

 Every
day
21. I've been trying to find comfort in
my religion or spiritual beliefs.
22. I’ve been trying to get advice or
help from other people about what to
do.
23. I've been learning to live with it.
24. I've been thinking hard about what
steps to take.
25. I’ve been blaming myself for
things that happened.
26. I've been praying or meditating.
27. I’ve been working to hide my
LGBT+ identity.
28. I’ve been changing what I say or
do to cover up my LGBT+ identity.
29. I’ve been taking care to avoid
places or people that are not LGBT+
friendly.
30. I’ve been seeking out places or
people that support LGBT+
identified persons.
31. I’ve been doing things (i.e.
cutting/scratching/burning myself,
engaging in unsafe sex, driving
recklessly, eating more or less than I
should, etc.) to hurt my body.
32. I’ve been doing things to put my
physical health at risk.

Several 2-3 times a Once a Never Prefer
times a
month
Month
not to
week
answer

 SUBSTANCE USE
Q19. Have you used alcohol or drugs in the past year?
By drug use we mean (1) using prescribed or over-the-counter drugs in excess of the directions,
and (2) any nonmedical use of drugs. These drugs may include cannabis (marijuana, hashish),
cocaine, opioids (e.g. heroin), solvents (e.g., paint thinner), tranquilizers (e.g., Valium),
barbiturates, stimulants (e.g., speed), or hallucinogens (e.g., LSD).
o Yes

o
o

No  Continue to Q20
Prefer not to answer  Continue to Q20

Q19a. For the following statements, please select whether you have done or felt the following in
the past year:
Please select all that apply, for instance select both alcohol and drugs if the statement is true for
both substances.
Alcohol

3. Have you spent more time drinking or using drugs than
you intended to?
4. Have you ever neglected some of your usual
responsibilities because of using alcohol or drugs?
5. Have you felt you wanted or needed to cut down on your
drinking or drug use?

Drugs

Neither

Prefer
not to
answer

 6. Has your family, friend, or anyone, else ever told you
they objected to your drinking or drug use?
7. Have you found yourself thinking a lot about drinking or
using drugs?
8. Have you ever used alcohol or drugs to relieve emotional
discomfort, such as sadness, anger, or boredom?

 DEMOGRAPHICS
This set of questions asks you for some additional information about yourself.
Q20. How old are you today? _________ (Text box to insert age)
Q21. What is your current relationship status?
o Single/Not in a relationship

o
o
o
o
o

In a relationship/Living with significant other
In a relationship/Not living with significant other
Married or Civil Union
Divorced/Separated/Widowed
Prefer not to answer

Q22. What is the highest level of education you have completed?
o High school incomplete or less

o
o
o
o
o

High school graduate or GED

o

Prefer not to answer

Some college or trade school
Four-year college degree/bachelor’s degree
Some postgraduate or professional schooling, no postgraduate degree
Postgraduate or professional degree, including master’s, doctorate, medical, or law
degree

Q23. Last year, what was your total household income from all sources, before taxes?
o Under $10,000

o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o

$10,000 to under $20,000
$20,000 to under $30,000
$30,000 to under $40,000
$40,000 to under $50,000
$50,000 to under $75,000
$75,000 to under $100,000
$100,000 to under $150,000
$150,000 or more
Prefer not to answer

 Q24. What is your race or ethnicity? (Check ALL that apply)
White
Hispanic, Latino, or Spanish
Black or African American
Asian
American Indian or Alaska Native
Middle Eastern or North African
Pacific Islander/Native Hawaiian
Another race or ethnicity not listed (Please describe: __________________)
Prefer not to answer
Q25. What county do you currently live in?
__________ (Drop down menu with all Illinois counties)
Q25. How do you describe the area you reside in?
o Urban

o
o
o

Suburban
Rural
Prefer not to answer

Q26. Do you prefer to communicate in a language other than English?
o Yes

o
o

No
Prefer not to answer

Q27. Were you born in the United States?
o Yes

o
o

No
Prefer not to answer

Q28. As you answer this next question please remember that all answers to questions in this
survey are confidential. You may also skip this next question.
What is the status of your citizenship? (Check ALL that apply)
I am a U.S. Citizen
I have a Visa (e.g., student, tourist, etc.)

 I am working to become a U.S. Citizen
I am undocumented
Other
Prefer not to answer
Q29. Do you have any medical or health-related disabilities, including physical, mental, or
emotional conditions that interfere with daily living conditions?
o Yes

o
o

No
Prefer not to answer

Sexual Orientation
Q30. Do you consider yourself to be:
o Heterosexual or straight

o
o
o

Gay or lesbian
Bisexual
Prefer not to answer

Q31. In the past year who have you had sex with?
o Men only

o
o
o
o

Women only
Both men and women
I have not had sex
Prefer not to answer

Q32. People are different in their sexual attraction to other people. Which best describes your
feelings? Are you:
o Only attracted to females

o
o
o
o
o
o

Mostly attracted to females
Equally attracted to females and males
Mostly attracted to males
Only attracted to males
Not sure
Prefer not to answer

 Gender Identity
Q33. What was your assigned sex at birth?

o
o
o

Male
Female
Prefer not to answer

Q34. What is your current gender identity? (Check all that apply)
Male
Female
Trans male/Trans man
Trans female/Tran woman
Genderqueer/Gender non-conforming
Different identity (please describe): ____________
Prefer not to answer
Gender Expression
Q35. A person’s appearance, style, or dress may affect the way people think of them.
On average, how do you think people would describe your appearance, style, or dress?
o Very feminine

o
o
o
o
o
o
o

Mostly feminine
Somewhat feminine
Equally feminine and masculine
Somewhat masculine
Mostly masculine
Very masculine
Prefer not to answer

Q36. A person’s mannerisms (such as the way they walk or talk) may affect the way people
think of them.
On average, how do you think people would describe your mannerisms?
o Very feminine

o
o
o

Mostly feminine
Somewhat feminine
Equally feminine and masculine

 0 Somewhat masculine
0 Mostly masculine
0 Very masculine

Prefer not to answer

RESEARCH FOLLOW-UP
Q37. Our center regularly carries out studies to inform our understanding of victimization. May
we contact you in the future regarding other research opportunities you may be eligible for?

o
o

Yes
No

 Payment

1 Page

ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Dear [Participant],
Thank you for participating in our study that is trying to learn more about the experiences
with harm and help-seeking of individuals who identify as LGBTQ+. Your participation is
invaluable in informing our understanding of the experiences of LGBTQ+-identified individuals
in Illinois who have experienced harm.
We have enclosed a $25 gift card in appreciation for your participation in this research
study.
If you have any questions please feel free to contact us. You can reach research staff at
312-793-XXXX or via email at CJA.VictimStudies@illinois.gov.
Thank you for your assistance!
Center for Victim Studies
Research and Analysis Unit
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams St., Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606
O: 312-793-8550
F: 312-793-8422

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
IRB

AMENDMENT APPLICATION: for Research Involving Human Subjects

Any change to an approved research protocol, including the research plan, consent process and
form, co-investigators, other research personnel, and/or methods of subject recruitment requires
the submission of an Amendment. Please clarify the change(s) to be made and the rationale for
the change(s). A cover letter or additional information may also be attached.
Amendments to approved IRB applications must be submitted to the chair or co-chairs of the
IRB and receive signed approval. Maintain for your records initial approvals and signatures.
Amendments to protocols may not be initiated until IRB approval has been obtained.

PROPOSAL INFORMATION
Principal investigator(s):

Amanda L. Vasquez & Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik

Principal investigator(s) email:
Unit:

Amanda.L.Vasquez@illinois.gov; Jaclyn.kolnik@illinois.gov

Center for Victim Studies, Research & Analysis Unit

Office Address:

300 W Adams St. Suite 200

City, State, Zip code: Chicago, IL 60606
Office phone:

312-793-8550

Initial start date of project:

March 2018

Initial end date of project:

February 2019

Title of proposal:

Victim and Family Member Interviews: Linking Systems of Care for Children,
Youth, & Families

Date of initial approval:
Initial approval
type:

March 29, 2018

Full IRB:

X

Expedited:

Exempt:

AMENDMENT INFORMATION
Amendment initiated by:

Jaclyn Kolnik
1

 What elements of the approved project are you proposing to change?
Investigators or research staff (I)
Project advisors or consultants (II)
X

Protocol (e.g., instruments, data collection, recruitment procedures, compensation) (III)
Consent procedures (IV)

X

Consent documents (V)

X

Project sites or study participants (VI)
Changes in confidentiality, privacy, or security (e.g., data dissemination, storage,
security, personnel, access) (VII)
Funding/sponsorship (VIII)
Start or end date change or modification (IX)
Other (please specify) (X):
Risk/benefits assessment (XI)

I. INVESTIGATOR CHANGE
Adding or

Changes

X

No changes

changing co-principal investigator

Name:
Title:
Reason for change
IRB certified

Yes

No

Certification course:

Date certified:

Certification number (if applicable)
Adding or

changing research staff

Name:
Title:
Reason for change
IRB certified

Yes

Certification course:

No
Date certified:

Certification number (if applicable)
2

 Other change(s) to personnel or staff
Explanation:
IRB certified

Yes

No

Certification course:

Date certified:

Certification number (if applicable)
Have updated privacy certificates been filed?

Yes

X

No (explain why):

Privacy certificates filed with the Department of Justice, Office for Victims of Crime will be
submitted in accordance with all outlined requirements.

II. PROJECT ADVISORS OR CONSULTANTS
Adding or

Changes

X

No changes

changing project advisor or consultant

Name:
Title:
Reason for change
IRB certified

Yes

No

3

 III. PROTOCOL CHANGE

X

Changes

No changes

1.) Please explain in detail what changes you plan to make to the study design or protocol (such
as changes to instruments used, data collection, recruitment procedures, or compensation).
To recruit individuals over the age of 18 who are in a juvenile corrections or detention facility,
the proposed changes add additional recruitment strategies, including fliers that remove language
about compensation to be sent to facilities and a study script that may be used to inform
individuals who are in juvenile correctional or detention facilities about the opportunity to
participate, the purpose of the study, and the criteria for participation. The researchers will work
with correction and detention staff to set up specific days that the researchers will be at the
facility to conduct interviews. Upon securing dates, the following script will be provided to the
facility to invite interested individuals to participate in interviews on the day the researchers will
be at the facility:
On [INSERT DATE/TIME], researchers will be in [LOCATION/ROOM] and are
interested in talking with individuals who are 18 and older about their experiences with
verbal, physical, or sexual harm and contact they may have had with different agencies
or organizations because they needed help after such experiences. This research is part
of an effort to improve services for young persons who have experienced harm.
If you are interested, you can visit [LOCATION] on [DATE/TIME] to answer a few
questions to see if you are eligible to participate in a 60-90 minute interview. The
questions will ask participants about their experiences with harm, needs, experiences
with agencies and organizations after the harm, and recommendations for how agencies
and organizations can better meet the need of young victims. All information given is
private and confidential.
Interested individuals may express their interest and/or meet with researchers on those days and
will complete the screener (paper or if available, online). Should they be eligible, an interview
will be conducted.
2.) Please explain in detail the rationale for the above change(s). What prompted the
investigators to propose the amendment? Is the amendment the result of an adverse/negative
event?
Researchers seek to explicitly include individuals over the age of 18 who are in a juvenile
corrections or detention facility in this study. To reach these populations researchers will need to
contact juvenile correctional and detention facilities. Researchers will obtain permission from
agency directors.

3.) Does this amendment alter, in any way, the assessment of potential risks described in your
approved protocol?

4

 Yes

X

No

4.) If you answered yes to question 3, please explain in detail how this alters the assessment of
potential risk and whether the benefits of the study outweigh the risks.

IV. CONSENT PROCEDURES

Changes

X

No changes

5.) If you are changing your consent procedures, please explain these alterations in detail.

6.) Please explain in detail the rationale for the above change(s). What prompted the
investigators to propose the change? Is this change the result of an adverse/negative event?

5

 V. CONSENT DOCUMENTS

X

Changes

No changes

7.) What types of changes are being made to the consent documents/forms?
Adding or removing information from the consent form so that it is consistent with an
already approved IRB statement (e.g., the cost section, or phone number change)
Revising the consent form to reflect what was already approved in the protocol
Defining a phrase(s) more clearly in lay language
Incorporating in the consent form updated IRB-mandated language
Minor editorial changes to the consent form which do not alter the meaning or procedures
(e.g., spelling changes, revising a statement)
Removal of questionnaires or instruments that required consent forms
X

Other (please specify): We are editing the language to compensation for individuals who
are over the age of 18 in a juvenile correctional or detention facility.

8.) Please explain in detail how you will alter the consent documents.
The interview consent forms will be amended to remove the language about compensation for
participants who are over the age of 18 in a juvenile correctional or detention facility.

9.) Please explain in detail the rationale for the above change(s). What prompted the
investigators to propose the change? Is this change the result of an adverse/negative event?
Individuals who participate in the study and who are in juvenile correctional or detention
facilities will not be offered compensation because compensation could be coercive for
individuals who are in correctional or detention environments.

6

 10.) Please submit the original and altered consent documents and highlight the changes. If filing
the amendment electronically, are these documents appended to this form or contained in a
separate document?
Appended

X

Attached form

VI. PROJECT SITES OR STUDY PARTICIPANTS

X

Changes

No changes

11.) What types of changes are being made to the project sites or study participants?
Changing who is included in the study sample
X

Inclusion of new or additional special populations as subjects
Changing sites or programs
Changing the number of subjects
Other (please specify):

12.) Please provide a detailed explanation of how you will change who will be included in your
study sample, if applicable.
Researchers propose the inclusion of individuals over the age of 18 who are in a juvenile
corrections or detention facility.

13.) Please provide the rationale for making these changes.
Young adults with involvement in the juvenile justice systems have high rates of victimization
and have had contact with one or more service provider groups. Thus, a study that seeks to
understand the victimization experiences of young adults and their contact with providers
following victimization must include these populations to truly inform the field’s understanding
of how to improve services and supports for these populations. Failing to include these
populations would lead to a gap in our understanding of young adults’ experiences in navigating
different systems of care following victimization.

14.) Will your study now include new or additional special populations? If yes, please indicate
which ones:
Minors under age 18
Adult prisoners or individuals in secure confinement

7

 X

Juveniles in correctional or detention facilities: Who are over the age of 18
Probationers, parolees, or individuals under court or correctional supervision
Developmentally disabled, intellectually disabled, or cognitively impaired
Individuals held in residential treatment, locked facilities, or hospitalized
Pregnant women, if focus of research
Non-English speakers
Wards of the states
Other—please specify:

15.) Please provide an explanation of why you are changing the sites or program of study, if
applicable.
N/A, the site of study is not changing, but rather we are proposing expanding the populations of
the study to include individuals who are over the age of 18 in juvenile corrections or detention
facilities.

16.) Please provide the rationale for making these changes.
N/A

17.) Are you changing the number of subjects that will be included in your sample?
No
Adding subjects to sample

Reducing sample size

18.) How many subjects will be added to or subtracted from your initial sample size and what
will your final sample size be?
N/A
Initial sample
size

Number
added

Number
reduced

Final sample size

19.) Pease provide the justification for making this increase/decrease.

8

 N/A

20.) Please explain any other changes you are making to the project sites or study participants
and provide the rationale or justification for these changes, if applicable.
N/A

VII. CONFIDENTIALITY, PRIVACY, OR SECURITY

Changes

X No changes

21.) What changes are being made that may affect the confidentiality or privacy of the subjects,
or security of the subjects or data?

22.) Please provide the rationale for making these changes.

23.) Please indicate what steps will be taken to ensure the privacy, confidentiality, and security
of the study subjects or data.

VIII. FUNDING OR SPONSORSHIP

Changes

X

No changes

9

 24.) How has the funding or sponsorship of this study changed?
Funding added

Funding
decreased

New funding
source

Funding
restored

25.) How will the changes in funding and/or sponsorship affect the protection of the human
subjects in the study?

IX. DATE CHANGE OR MODIFICATION

Changes

X

No changes

X

No changes

26.) What date changes are you making to the study?
Start date

End date

Initial start date

New start date

Initial end date

New end date

27.) Please explain the necessity for these changes.

X. OTHER CHANGES

Changes

10

 29.) Please provide the rationale for the changes and provide a statement as to how they may
affect the protection of human subjects in your study?

28.) Please provide a detailed explanation of other changes being made to the IRB that are not
covered in previous sections.

11

 XI. RISK/BENEFIT ASSESSMENT
30.) Discuss how these proposed changes may affect the risks posed to human subjects.
The study’s overall risk has not changed because the procedures involved are the same, but we
are proposing to expand recruitment to include a more vulnerable population, i.e., individuals
who are over the age of 18 and in juvenile corrections or detention facilities. Expanding the
inclusionary criteria to include individuals who are over the age of 18 and in juvenile corrections
or detention facilities could increase risk to those participants. They represent a highly victimized
population that has likely had considerable contact with systems following their experiences with
victimization. However, involvement in this research study is voluntary and participants may
discontinue their participation at any time without penalty. And in sharing their stories to help
others they may feel a sense of empowerment that outweighs or mitigates risks of participating.
31.) Discuss how these proposed changes may affect the potential benefits of the project to
subjects and or society.
Expanding the research study to include individuals who are over the age of 18 and in juvenile
corrections or detention facilities will likely increase the study’s benefit to society. Incorporating
these additional perspectives will increase the field’s understanding of victimization, and contact
with providers following victimization informing our understanding of how to improve services
and supports for young victims.

12

  

 

 

 

 

SIGNATURE PAGE
Victim and Family Member Interviews: Linking Systems of Care for Children, Youth, Families
Presented to IRB on: 

This page is to be signed by the principal investigator.

 

gf/W

 

 

 

tur of Principal Investigator Date
IRB ACTION:
Request Approved Request Denied

IRB Requests Modi?cations (see explanation below)

 

Signature of IRB Chair

 

Date

 

 

Modi?cations Requested by IRB:

 

IRB Expiration:

The approval granted for this project expires on

 

Date

 

13

 

 

 

Are you a young
adult aged 18-25?

OR

Are you the parent or
caregiver of a child
under 18 years old?

We would like to talk to adults aged 18-25 who have
been harmed by violence and parents/caregivers of
children under 18 who have been harmed by violence.
We hope to better understand their needs and
experiences finding help.

n

If you are interested, the
researchers will be here on
[DATE/TIME] in [LOCATION]
For questions, please contact:

Young Adults & Caregivers Study
[Date/Time]
[Location]
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

All correspondence is
confidential
Young Adults & Caregivers Study
[Date/Time]
[Location]
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

Young Adults & Caregivers Study
[Date/Time]
[Location]
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

Young Adults & Caregivers Study
[Date/Time]
[Location]
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

Young Adults & Caregivers Study
[Date/Time]
[Location]
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

Young Adults & Caregivers Study
[Date/Time]
[Location]
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

Young Adults & Caregivers Study
[Date/Time]
[Location]
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

As a study participant, you would complete a brief
survey. Eligible participants will be invited for an
interview.

Center for Victim Studies
872-276-3799
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

Young Adults & Caregivers Study
[Date/Time]
[Location]
cja.victimstudies@illinois.gov

This study will help guide a statewide initiative to
better serve young victims of crime and their families.

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Research Information and Consent for Participation in Research
Victim and Family Member/Caregiver Interviews – Detention/Corrections:
Linking Systems of Care for Illinois Children, Youth, & Families

You are being asked to participate in a research study. Researchers are required to provide a
consent form such as this one to tell you about the research, to explain that taking part is
voluntary, to describe the risks and benefits of participation, and to help you to make an
informed decision. You should feel free to ask the researchers any questions you may have.
Principal Investigators Name and Title:

Amanda L. Vasquez
Research Analyst, Center for Victim Studies
Dr. Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik
Research Manager, Center for Victim Studies

Department and Institution:

Research and Analysis Unit
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Address and Contact Information:

300 W. Adams St., Suite 200, Chicago, IL 60606
Phone: 312-793-8550
Email: Amanda.L.Vasquez@illinois.gov
Jaclyn.kolnik@illinois.gov

Sponsor:

Office for Victims of Crime: Linking Systems of
Care for Children and Youth State Demonstration
Project

Why am I being asked?
You are being asked to be a subject in a research study to help the state of Illinois better
understand the nature of child and youth victimization, and the needs of children, youth, and
their families and their experiences with systems of care following victimization. You have been
asked to participate in this study because you are a young adult (i.e., aged 18-25) who has
experienced victimization as a child or youth (i.e., under 21 years old) or you are the parent or
primary caregiver of a child (i.e., under 18 years old) who has experienced victimization.
Your participation in this research is voluntary. Your decision whether to participate will not
affect your current or future dealings with the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice (IDJJ) or
the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA). If you decide to participate, you
are free to withdraw at any time without affecting that relationship.
Approximately 100 subjects may be involved in this research at ICJIA.

Young Victims Study, Interview, Version 2, 06/11/2018, Page 1 of 5

 What is the purpose of this research?
The purpose of this research is to better understand the nature of child and youth victimization,
and the needs of children, youth, and their families and their experiences with systems of care
following victimization. Specifically, researchers are seeking to increase the state’s knowledge
of how systems of care are connected and whether they adequately meet the needs of child and
youth victims, and their families.
What procedures are involved?
If you agree to participate, you will have the option to participate in the interview. We estimate
that the interview will take approximately 60-90 minutes. The interview will be audio-recorded
with your permission. You can choose not to be audio-recorded. If you choose not to be audiorecorded, we will simply document your responses using paper and pencil. You will be asked
questions about different experiences from your childhood or your child’s experiences.
Specifically, we will ask you about your or your child(ren)’s victimization experiences,
your/your child(ren)’s needs and family members’ needs following victimization, the kinds of
resources you or your child(ren) may or may not have received, and the agencies and
organizations that you or your child(ren) had contact with.
What are the potential risks and discomforts?
Some questions may make you uncomfortable or may cause you some emotional or
psychological distress. Please remember, it is up to you to decide whether to answer any of the
questions. You will be provided with a community resource list of adult victim service providers
you may contact if you experience discomfort or distress, and a separate list of child victim
service providers.
There may be other risks from the study that are not known at this time.
Will I be told about new information that may affect my decision to participate?
During the course of the study, you will be informed of any significant new research information
(either good or bad), such as changes in the risks or benefits resulting from participation in the
research or new alternatives to participation, that might cause you to change your mind about
continuing in the research. If new information is provided to you, your consent to continue
participating in this research may be re-obtained.
Are there benefits to taking part in the research?
You will receive no direct benefit from participation in the research.
Indirect benefits include a better understanding of child and youth victimization, the needs of
children, youth, and their families and their experiences with systems of care following
victimization.

Young Victims Study, Interview, Version 2, 06/11/2018, Page 2 of 5

 What other options are there?
You have the option to not participate in this study. Even if you initially choose to participate
you may change your decision at any time without penalty. You may also not answer a
question at any time.
You will be asked to be audio-recorded. You may choose to participate in an interview but not be
audio-recorded. If you choose not to be audio-recorded, the information will be collected using
pencil and paper.
What about privacy and confidentiality?
The people who will know that you are a research subject are members of the research team.
If you agree, interviews will be audio-recorded and saved on secure computers and/or servers in
the Authority offices. Audio-recordings on the recording devices will be erased within 48 hours
of recording. Interview transcriptions in computerized word processing files will be stored
securely on the Authority’s computers and servers. Any information that might identify you will
be removed from the interview transcripts. Only the researchers will have access to the audiorecording, transcripts, and notes.
You may choose to participate in the study even if you do not want to be audio-recorded. In this
case, we will simply take notes using pencil and paper. These notes will be later typed and stored
securely on the Authority’s computers and servers. These notes will not contain any information
that might identify you.
The information collected in the study may be used to write a research report. No potentially
identifying information that can be attributed directly to you will be included in the report or
discussed with others.
Out of a concern for the safety of yourself and others, if during the interview, you say you are
going to cause serious harm to yourself or to someone else, the researcher may have to make a
report. A description of different types of serious harm are below:
a. Physical harm is any action that causes physical injury, pain, or leaves marks,
such as hitting, shaking, or burning.
b. Sexual abuse of a child includes any sexual contact with a child or youth. Sexual
abuse of an adult is any unwanted sexual activity. Sexual abuse of an adult also
includes any sexual activity with another person who is unable to understand or
consent (e.g., are sleeping, have been using drugs or alcohol, have a mental
disability).
c. Emotional abuse is yelling, swearing, or criticizing another person repeatedly to
make them feel bad about themselves.

Young Victims Study, Interview, Version 2, 06/11/2018, Page 3 of 5

 d. Neglect occurs when a parent or caregiver of a child or youth, or the caregiver of
an elderly person or a person with disability, does not meet their basic needs (e.g.,
food, clothing, medical care) or keep them safe.
If you share about any current harm to someone who is a child, elderly, or disabled, the
researcher may have to make a report. If the researcher needs to make a report, they may share
your name and contact information, or information about the person causing the harm or being
harmed, and a description of the harm to the appropriate agency such as the Department of Child
and Family Services, Adult Protective Services, or local law enforcement.
What are the costs for participating in this research?
There are no costs to you for participating in this research.
Will I be reimbursed for any of my expenses or paid for my participation in this research?
You will be not be reimbursed or paid for being in this study.
Can I withdraw or be removed from the study?
If you decide to participate, you are free to withdraw your consent and discontinue participation
at any time.
Who should I contact if I have questions?
If you have any questions regarding this project you may contact Amanda L. Vasquez or Dr.
Jaclyn Kolnik at 312-793-8550 or CJA.VictimStudies@illinois.gov
What are my rights as a research subject?
If you feel you have not been treated according to the descriptions in this form, or if you have
any questions about your rights as a research subject, including questions, concerns, complaints,
or to offer input, you may call the IRB secretary at 312-793-8550.
Remember:
Your participation in this research is voluntary. Your decision whether to participate will not
affect your current or future relations with IDJJ or ICJIA. If you decide to participate, you are
free to withdraw at any time without affecting that relationship.

Verbal consent (before the interview):
Now that I have reviewed with you the information contained in the consent form, do you have
any questions about the consent form or this project?

Young Victims Study, Interview, Version 2, 06/11/2018, Page 4 of 5

 If no: proceed below.
If yes: answer all questions.
Now that your questions have been answered, do you consent to participating in this research
study?
If no: thanked for your time (conversation ended).
If yes: proceed below.
Do you consent to being audio-recorded?
If no: no problem. I will take handwritten notes during the interview instead.
If yes: let me turn on the recorder and we will begin.

Young Victims Study, Interview, Version 2, 06/11/2018, Page 5 of 5

 