ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MEETING NOTICE
Institutional Review Board
July 7, 2017 – 3:30 PM
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, IL 60606
AGENDA
I.
II.

Call to Order
Roll Call

III.

Approval of June 2, 2017 Meeting Minutes

IV.

Applications for Review
Study of newspaper reporters’ coverage and understanding of human trafficking (J. Reichert and J.
Houston-Kolnik)

V.
VI.

Old Business: None
New Business
1. Exempt IRB applications: None
2. Expedited IRB applications: None
3. IRB application amendments: None
4. Upcoming IRB meetings:
a. August 17th, 2017
b. November 16th, 2017

VII.

Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State
and Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special
accommodations should contact by telephone or letter John Klaer, Associate Director, Office of Administrative Services,
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St. Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150 or at (312) 7938550. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
IRB
APPROVAL APPLICATION for Research Involving Human Subjects

PROPOSAL INFORMATION
Principal
investigator(s):

Jessica Reichert and Jaclyn Houston-Kolnik

Principal investigator(s)
email:
Office
Address:

Jessica.Reichert@Illinois.gov; Jaclyn.kolnik@illinois.gov

300 W. Adams St, Suite 200

City, State, Zip
code:

Chicago, IL 60606

Office phone: 312-793-8655
Project staff and affiliation: Amanda Vasquez, ICJIA
Start date of project:

7/7/17

End date of project:

7/7/18

Title of
proposal:
Initial approval
type:

Study of newspaper reporters’ coverage and understanding of human trafficking

Full IRB:

X

Is this IRB linked to other IRB approval?

Expedited:
Yes

X

Exempt:
No

If YES, please explain:

Will the data be primary data or secondary
data?

X

Primary

Secondary

If SECONDARY, please briefly indicate the source of the data:

1

 How is the end date of the study defined?
Publication of an article in Journal of Human Trafficking and on ICJIA website.

I. VULNERABLE SUBJECTS
Will any of the following groups potentially be included in your sample?
Yes

No

Minors under age 18

X

Adult prisoners or individuals in secure confinement

X

Juveniles in correctional or detention facilities

X

Probationers, parolees, or individuals under court or correctional
supervision
Developmentally disabled, intellectually disabled, or cognitively
impaired
Individuals held in residential treatment, locked facilities, or
hospitalized

X
X
X

Pregnant women, if focus of research

X

Non-English speakers

X

Wards of the state

X

Other—please specify

X

II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. PROJECT SUMMARY
1. Please provide a brief summary (3 – 5 sentences), in lay terms, of the purpose
of the study and the procedures subjects will undergo.
Researchers will conduct qualitative phone interviews with reporters who have covered
the topic of human trafficking in Illinois newspapers. These interviews will offer an
understanding of how reporters understand human trafficking, the process and sources
used to inform their coverage of the topic, and their perspectives on the role of
reporters in covering human trafficking.

2

 B. PROCEDURES
2. Describe the procedures involving human subjects and list the steps you will
take. Include the following information:
Reporters who have written about human trafficking for an Illinois newspaper will be
recruited to participate in phone interviews with ICJIA research staff.
a.) Time involvement of subjects: 30-60 minutes

b.) Location(s) the study will be conducted with subjects, including a description, if
applicable: By phone
c.) Amount of payment to subject, if any (consent form must note plan for payment
if they withdraw voluntarily): None
d.) What subjects will experience or do: Answer questions regarding their knowledge,
process, and role in reporting on human trafficking in Illinois newspapers

C. EQUITABLE SELECTION OF SUBJECTS
3. Please answer the following information about your proposed sample.
a.) Anticipated total number of subjects in study:
b.) Number in age
ranges:

50

18 and
older

Under 18

50

c.) Potential inclusion: race/ethnicity (check ALL that apply). If known, provide number:
African
American X

American
Indian

X

Asian X

Hispanic X

White X

Other

Unknown

Bi-racial

X

Comments

d.) Prisoners or individuals in secure
confinement(n):

0

e.) Probationers, parolees, or other individuals under court or
correctional supervision:

0

4. Describe the procedures for subject recruitment
Administrative data

Recruitment

X

3

 5. Identify the criteria for inclusion/exclusion of subjects and provide a clear
rationale for them.
Researchers will recruit reporters who have written about human trafficking in 2016 to 2017 for
an Illinois newspaper.
Researchers will use four different methods to contact reporters to participate in the interviews.
1. Conduct an online search of articles featuring human trafficking published in Illinois
newspapers. The online search will use the ProQuest and NewsBank newspaper
databases and google search engine.
2. Ask for names and contact information from researchers and other colleagues.
3. Post and recruit on listservs, such as the Investigative Reporters and Editors (IRE) and
Crime Reporters Association listservs.
4. Ask participants at the end of each interview if they know of other reporters who have
written about human trafficking recently that we might be able to interview (snowball
sample).
If we are unable to reach saturation (i.e., when new interviews do not lead to new themes or
information) from interviewing reporters within the timeframe above, we will expand the
timeframe by one year until we have reached saturation. For example, first we will expand the
timeframe to include 2015. If we are unable to reach saturation after expanding our sample to
include reporters who published articles in Illinois newspapers in 2015, 2016, and the first half
of 2017 we will expand our timeframe to 2014 and so on.

D. RISK/BENEFIT ASSESSMENT
6. Briefly describe the potential benefits of the project to subjects and/or to
society. Note: Social science research typically does not provide a direct benefit
to the subjects.
There are no direct benefits for those who choose to participate in this study. This study,
however, may result in greater understanding of reporters’ knowledge and reporting process in
relation to human trafficking. Content analyses of newspaper articles on human trafficking
have found varying levels of understanding about human trafficking, its causes, and potential
solutions. However, what remains unknown is what informs reporters’ work and the processes
they use to report on human trafficking. This research may lead to a dialogue that can inform
how crime reporters, advocates, and criminal justice personnel collaborate and view this issue,
potentially identifying areas for further training and development to improve the accuracy and
quality of human trafficking coverage.

7. Does this study involve any of the following?
Yes

No
X

Use of deception by researchers

X

Use of punishment by researchers

X

Use of drugs by subjects for study purposes

4

 X

Covert and/or participant observation

X

Induction of mental and/or physical stress to subjects by researchers

X

Procedures which risk physical harm to the subject

X

Materials and behaviors commonly regarded as socially unacceptable

X

X

Procedures by researchers that might be regarded as an invasion of
privacy to subjects or cause a degree of discomfort
Possible/probable disclosure of information by subjects to researchers
that may be harmful to the subject (e.g., child abuse, criminal behavior,
immigration status)

a.) If you checked YES to any of the above procedures, explain the procedure in
detail, as well as provide the methods being used to control or minimize the danger
to the subjects.

b.) Please indicate the theoretical and/or methodological necessity for employing
each procedure(s) checked YES.

8. If the study involves deception, when and how will the subjects be debriefed?
(Generally, the nature of the deception and its necessity should be explained to
the subjects).
Not applicable.

9. Are provisions for subject’s medical care available in the event of a personal
(physical or mental) injury resulting solely from subject’s participation in the
research? Please explain.
Yes

No

Not applicable

X

10. Will other care or counseling be available or referrals made to agencies for the
subject should he or she become stressed, uncomfortable, angry, or experience
other psychological difficulties as a result of participating in the research? Please
explain.
Yes

No

Not applicable

X

5

 Minimal risk: A risk is minimal where the probability and magnitude of harm or
discomfort anticipated in the proposed research are not greater, in and of themselves,
than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine
physical or psychological examinations or tests.
Greater than minimal risk: A risk is greater than minimal where the probability and
magnitude of harm or discomfort anticipated in the proposed research are greater than
those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during the performance of routine physical or
psychological examinations or tests.
High risk: A risk is high when a moderate-to-high probability of serious adverse effects
might occur as a result of participation in a research study.
Risks and benefits that would result even if the research weren’t undertaken should not
be considered.
11. Indicate the overall degree of the research’s physical risk to the subject,
according to the definitions provided below.
X

Minimal
Greater than minimal
High

12. Indicate the overall degree of the research’s psychological risk to the subject,
according to the definitions provided below.
X

Minimal
Greater than minimal
High

13. Indicate the overall degree of any other risk to the subject the research may
have (e.g., social, economic), according to the definitions provided below.
X

Minimal
Greater than minimal
High

E. COMPENSATION
14. Will the participants be compensated monetarily for entering the study?
Yes

No

X

6

 a.) If YES, what is the amount and source of the funds?
Amount $

Source of funds

b.) If YES, how will that money be distributed to subjects (e.g., gift cards, cash)?
Explain.

15. Are there other inducements planned to recruit subjects? If YES, describe other
inducements.
Yes

No

X

F. CONFIDENTIALITY
16. Will any data be gathered through photographic, video or sound recording
devices?
Yes

X

No

a.) If YES, how will the confidentiality of the materials produced by such devices be
protected?
Note: A separate line of the consent form for the subjects to agree to be video/audio
taped or photographed must be included.
Should participants consent to audio recording, the interview will be recorded using a
handheld recording device. Audio-recordings of interviews will be saved on secure computers
and/or servers in the Authority offices. Audio-recordings on the recording devices will be
erased within 48 hours of recording.
At the start of the interview, participants will be asked for their verbal consent to participate in
the interview in addition to their verbal consent to be audio-recorded. We will also take notes
during these interviews. No identifying information will be recorded during the notetaking
process. All notes will be stored in a filing cabinet in a locked office at the Authority. Only
ICJIA research staff will have access to these materials.
If a participant does not agree to participate, the interview will be terminated. If an individual
does not wish to be audio-recorded, the participant can still participate, and researchers will
instead only take handwritten notes.
The audio-recordings will be transcribed by research assistants associated with this project.
Any identifying information will be redacted during the transcription process. The
transcriptions will be maintained in a secure location separate from the project consent forms
and audio-recordings. Only the transcriptions and written notes will be analyzed.

7

 b.) What will be done with the still photos, video, or audio recordings after the study
has been completed? Will this information be destroyed, kept xx number of years,
used in publications, etc.? How does the investigator(s) define “completion” of the
study?
Audio recordings will be transferred to secured computers and deleted from the recording
device within 48 hours of the interview. Interview transcriptions will be maintained in
computerized word processing files will be stored securely on the Authority computers and
servers. The files will be maintained security for three years after the completion of the study,
which is defined as having completed the final research report.

17. Will names or individual identifiers of subjects be recorded? If YES, answer a
through d below.
Yes

X

No

a.) Where will the names or other individual identifiers be recorded (e.g., on test
protocols, on a separate list with code numbers, etc)?
Individual identifiers will be recorded on a master list in order to keep track of human subjects
that have been contacted and interviewed. This list will be maintained separately from all
other materials in a secure location only accessible to research staff. That list will indicate
names of potential participants and track recruitment efforts (e.g., follow up contact dates).

b.) Describe project procedures for maintaining the security of these records at every
point in the data collection process.
Information about who has participated in our study will only be accessible to the research
staff at ICJIA. Records with identifiable information (i.e., master list of study participants and
potential participants) will be password protected files that will be stored on password
protected computers in a secure office. Transcripts will be deidentified. Handwritten notes will
be deidentified and stored in a file cabinet in a locked office at the Authority.

c.) Would it be possible to conduct the proposed project without recording names or
other individual identifiers? Please explain why or why not.
Yes

X

No

Researchers will use the names to keep track of interviewees in a master list which will be
stored in a password protected excel file only available to the research team. Given that we
plan to ask for verbal consent to be interviewed, there will be no names recorded beyond the
excel sheet. The excel sheet will simply indicate whether researchers still need to contact the
potential participant.

d.) Will access to names be under your exclusive control?
Yes

X

No

If NO, what will be done to protect the confidentiality of the subjects? Who would
have access to names or other individual identifiers? Describe the procedures for
maintaining security of paper files, automated files, and other records.

8

 e.) Will names of subjects be included in any publication based on this study? If YES,
for what reason(s)?
Yes

No

X

18. Sometimes research findings are presented in a manner that permits
knowledgeable readers to infer the identity of a person used as a subject, even if
names are omitted. Do you expect to present findings that may possibly provide
such clues? If YES, explain.
Yes

No

X

19. Will information be obtained pertaining to persons other than immediate
subjects (e.g., their friends)? If YES, how will the confidentiality of such persons be
protected?
Yes

No

X

G. INFORMED CONSENT
20. Do you intend to obtain informed consent?
X

Verbal

Written

No consent
needed

Waiver of consent
documentation

If NO CONSENT NEEDED or VERBAL, please answer a through c below.
a.) Why do you not intend to use written forms?
The present study involves minimal risk and the only documentation that would link a
participant to the study would be the consent form.

b.) In what manner and to what extent would potential subjects be given advance
information about the procedure in which they are asked to participate? If using a
contact letter, please include it.
Consent forms will be sent in advance of the scheduled interview. Participants will be
asked if they have any questions about the consent form prior to beginning the
interview. Participants will also be asked if they consent to participate in the study
before the start of the interview.

9

 c.) In what manner would potential subjects be advised that their participation and
continuation in the project would be entirely voluntary? Please provide a copy of the
text to be used.
At the beginning of our research protocol, the interviewer will state: “Participation in
this study is voluntary; You may request that the recording stop, choose to not
answer a question or end the interview at any time.”

21. If receiving verbal or written consent, please attach a copy of the script or
the consent form that you will use.
Attached

X

Unable to provide

Not
applicable

a.) If you are unable to provide the script or consent form, please explain why

22. Please give a detailed description of the process that will be used to obtain
consent and answer all applicable questions:
a.) Who will obtain consent? Research staff

b.) How will consent be obtained? Verbally before the start of the interview.
c.) How often will consent be obtained (e.g., longitudinal or long-term field studies)?
Before the start of the interview, researchers will ask participants if they have any
questions about the consent form. After any questions are answered, the interviewer will
ask if the participant consents to the interview and to be audio recorded.

d.) How will you verify the subject fully understands the consent? The consent forms
are written in a 9th grade or lower reading level. Researchers will ask participants if they
have any questions about the consent form. The consent forms will also provide contact
information for the principal investigator, the Authority’s attorney/IRB secretary to
request further information about the studies, their rights as a research participant, and
the initiative.

e.) How will your investigators be trained to use the informed consent process?
All Authority research staff are certified in the National Institutes of Health Office of
Extramural Research’s web-based training course “Protecting Human Research
Participants.”

23. Will/is the consent form be translated for non-English speaking participants?
Yes

No

X

a.) If NO, please explain why.

10

 The newspapers are printed in English, so all should be English-speaking.

b.) If YES, please provide an explanation of who will/did translate the forms and
their qualifications.

24. Does the consent form you have attached fully comply with ICJIA instructions for
consent forms that are in compliance with general requirements as outlined in the Code of
Federal Regulations 46.116 and the Authority’s IRB procedures? Please refer to the
checklist. N/A
Yes

X

No

a.) If NO, please explain why.

25. Will all project staff be IRB certified and trained to follow the basic guidelines for
the ethical care of subjects?
Yes

X

No (explain below)

11

 SIGNATURE PAGE

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
IRB
APPROVAL APPLICATION: for Research Involving Human Subjects

PROJECT NAME: Study of reporters understanding of and work covering human trafficking
This page is to be signed by the principal investigator.

Signature of Principal Investigator

Date

IRB ACTION:

Request Approved

Request Denied

IRB Requests Modifications (see explanation below)

Signature of IRB Chair

Date

Modifications Requested by IRB:

IRB Expiration:
The IRB approval granted for this project expires on ______________
Date

12

 Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Research Information and Consent for Participation in Research
Study of News Reporters Understanding of and Work Covering Human Trafficking
You are being asked to participate in a research study. Researchers are required to provide a
consent form such as this one to tell you about the research, to explain that taking part in the
study is your decision, to describe the risks and benefits of participation, and to help you to make
an informed decision. You should feel free to ask the researchers any questions you may have.
Principal Investigator Name and Title: Jessica Reichert, Research Manager
Department and Institution: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Address and Contact Information: 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200
Sponsor: Justice Assistance Grant
Why am I being asked?
You are being asked to be a subject in a research study about news journalists/reporters
perspectives and experiences reporting on human trafficking. You have been asked to participate
in the research because you have been identified as a reporter who has written on human
trafficking in an Illinois newspaper in 2016 or 2017.
Your participation in this research is voluntary. Your decision to participate will not affect your
current or future dealings with the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA). If
you decide to participate, you are free to withdraw at any time without affecting that
relationship.
Approximately 50 subjects may be involved in this research.
What is the purpose of this research?
The purpose of this study is to gain an understanding of how reporters view human trafficking,
the process and sources used to inform their coverage of the topic, and their perspectives on the
role of reporters in covering human trafficking.
What procedures are involved?
If you agree to participate, a researcher will contact you to set up a telephone interview that the
researcher will ask to audio tape. You can choose not to be audio taped. If you choose not to be
audio taped we will simply document your responses using paper and pencil. You will be asked
questions on your experience writing news stories on human trafficking. You will also be asked
to provide a copy of any news stories you have published in an Illinois newspaper in 2016 or
2017 on the topic of human trafficking. You can choose not to answer any question(s) or to not
provide a copy of published news stories you have written on human trafficking. You will also
be asked if you would be willing to provide contact information for other persons you know who
have written a published news story in an Illinois newspaper in 2016 or 2017 on the topic of
human trafficking. You can choose not to provide this information.

 What are the potential risks and discomforts?
This study involves minimal risk. The interviews conducted will be analyzed and a final report
published in a scholarly journal and the ICJIA website. No specific data will be attributed to you,
nor will anyone outside the researchers on this project know you participated. Any personally
identifying information discussed during the interview will not be recorded in hand notes or
transcribed, should you choose to be audiotaped.
It is possible that someone who knows that you published a news article on human trafficking
will attribute findings or statements to you. Please know that the researchers will never share
information related to your participation to anyone outside the research project. Care will also be
taken to report findings in a manner that does not identify individual participants.
Please remember that you may choose to no longer participate at any time or you may choose not
to answer any question without penalty.
Will I be told about new information that may affect my decision to participate?
During the course of the study, you will be informed of any significant new research information
(either good or bad), such as changes in the risks or benefits resulting from participation in the
research or new alternatives to participation, that might cause you to change your mind about
continuing in the research. If new information is provided to you, your consent to continue
participating in this research may be re-obtained.
Are there benefits to taking part in the research?
You will not directly benefit from participation in the research. Although taking part in this
research study may not directly benefit you, the study may help researchers learn more about
how news stories on human trafficking are developed that could further inform the field.
What other options are there?
You have the option to not participate in this study. Even if you initially choose to participate
you may change your decision at any time without penalty. You may also not answer a
question at any time.
You will be asked to be audiotaped. You may choose to participate in an interview but not be
audiotaped. If you choose not to be audiotaped, the information will be collected using pencil
and paper.
What about privacy and confidentiality?
Only the researchers involved in this project will know that you participated in the study should
you choose to do so. When the results of the research are published or discussed in conferences,
no information will be included that would reveal your identity.

 Should you agree, interviews will be audio recorded and saved on secure computers and/or
servers in the Authority offices. Audio-recordings on the recording devices will be erased within
48 hours of recording. Interview transcriptions in computerized word processing files will be
stored securely on the Authority’s computers and servers.
You may choose to participate in the study even if you do not want to be audiotaped. In this case,
we will simply take notes using pencil and paper. These notes will be later typed and stored
securely on the Authority’s computers and servers.
What are the costs for participating in this research?
There are no costs to you for participating in this research.
Will I be reimbursed for any of my expenses or paid for my participation in this research?
You will not be offered payment for being in this study.
Can I withdraw or be removed from the study?
If you decide to participate, you are free to withdraw your consent and discontinue participation
at any time without penalty.
Who should I contact if I have questions?
Contact the researcher manager for this project, Jessica Reichert, at 312-793-8655 or email
address: Jessica.Reichert@Illinois.gov.
• if you have any questions about this study or your part in it, or
• if you have questions, concerns or complaints about the research.
What are my rights as a research subject?
If you feel you have not been treated according to the descriptions in this form, or if you have
any questions about your rights as a research subject, including questions, concerns, complaints,
or to offer input, you may call the IRB secretary, Simeon Kim, at 312-793-8550.
Remember:
Your participation in this research is voluntary. Your decision whether or not to participate will
not affect your current or future relations with ICJIA. If you decide to participate, you are free to
withdraw at any time without affecting that relationship.

Verbal consent (before the interview):
Before the start of the interview, you will be given an opportunity to ask any questions related to
the study and this consent form.

 •

Example: Before we begin, do you have any questions about the consent form that was
sent to you prior to this call?

In order to continue with the interview, the interviewer will need to get verbal consent that you
would like to participate in the study. Participating in the study and audio-recording are both
voluntary.
You will be asked:
Do you consent to participate in the research study?
If no, you will be thanked for your time and the conversation will be ended.
If yes, you will be asked about being audio-recorded.
Do you consent to the interview being audio-recorded?
If yes, the interviewer will turn on the recorder and may also take handwritten notes to
assist the transcription process.
If no, the interviewer will take handwritten notes during the interview instead.

 Pre-interview: Inclusion/Exclusion Questions
1. Do you consent to participate in the research study?
[IF NO, READ: Thank you for your time, but we cannot conduct the interview without your
consent.]
2. Do you consent to the interview being audio-recorded?
[IF NO, take handwritten notes only.]

[START RECORDER]
To confirm, you have consented to be interviewed and audio recorded. [Get affirmative response
recorded]
1. Have you ever contributed to at least one news story on human trafficking in an Illinois
newspaper?
[IF NO, READ: Thank you for your time, but our study is only focusing on reporters who have
written on human trafficking. Turn off recorder.]
2. Have you published an article on human trafficking in an Illinois newspaper in 2016 or
2017?
[IF NO, READ: Thank you for your time, but for our first round of interviews, we will focus on those
years. What was the last year you published a human trafficking article in an Illinois newspaper?]
a. If yes, for what newspaper(s)/agency(ies) did you write?
Human Trafficking Media Article:
Interviews with News Reporters/Journalist/Writers

[Note: The interview is organized into general themes with open-ended questions. This is an
unstructured interview; therefore, the topic flow and time spent on each theme will be unique for each
participant. Interview prompts may be used to elicit further elaboration.]
Introduction
Again, I want to thank you so much for taking time to discuss your experiences working on human
trafficking news stories. First, I will ask you some demographic questions, including your
experiences working in the news media field generally. Then I would be interested to hear about
your understanding of human trafficking and how you have incorporated this information into your
news media work. Lastly, I will ask your thoughts on the role of new media in making information
available to the public. Participation in this study is voluntary. You may request that the recording
stop, choose to not answer a question or end the interview at any time.

Experience and Demographics

I am going to start with a couple of questions to learn a little more about you and your history as a
[crime reporter, news journalist, writer, etc.]

1. How long have you been working in the news media field?
2. Please describe your history in writing print and/or online media.
3. What types of reporting/writing assignments (e.g., crime, public policy, investigative) have
you completed?

I also have a few quick general demographic questions:
4. What is your age __________

 5. What is your gender ___________
6. How would you describe yourself in terms of race/ethnicity ____________

General Knowledge

Before we talk more specifically about the work you have done about human trafficking, I would
like to ask some questions about your definition of human trafficking and your perspective on the
impact of human trafficking.
Definition of Trafficking

There are many definitions of trafficking and I’m curious how you define trafficking.

7. How do you define trafficking?
a. How extensive is the issue? (numbers)
b. Who is a typical victim? (e.g., labor vs. sex, international vs. domestic, gender,
age, sexual orientation/identity)
c. Is there a difference in your definition for domestic and international
trafficking? (Do you have a different definition for domestic and international
trafficking?)
d. How did you come about this definition? (Learned through reporting work or
other sources?)

Causes of Trafficking

I am also curious about what you see as the causes of human trafficking.
8. What do they see as the causes of human trafficking?
a. What might put someone at risk of being trafficked?

Impact of Trafficking

Human trafficking can have a broad impact on individuals and communities.

9. What do you see as the impact of HT on victims, and on the larger community?
10. What steps should be taken to address the issue of human trafficking?
a. Reduce prevalence
b. Address negative impact on victims

Work Process/Reporting

Now, in thinking about your role as a reporter, I’d like to hear more about your experience
reporting on human trafficking.

11. Can you describe your most recent experience working on an assignment focusing on
human trafficking?
a. Can you provide a brief description/summary of the story?
1) Did you include background information on human trafficking, such as a
definition, legislation, or prevalence in the news story?
2) Can you provide me a copy of the news story, or other news stories you have
done on human trafficking?
b. How was it assigned to you?

 c. What sources did you use?
1) Did you contact human trafficking victims? Why/why not? Can you describe
your contact with victims?
2) Was it easier/harder to obtain information from certain sources? Why?
3) Were there any sources you contacted, but didn’t include in your final piece?
Why?
d. How was reporting on this story similar to/different from other assignments?
e. How did others respond to the article?
1) By colleagues, managers, etc. within news agency
2) Externally (e.g., other news outlets, the public)?
f. What terms of words choices do you use when writing on human trafficking?
1) Any terms or word choices you avoid using (e.g., prostitution, pimp)?
2) Do you prefer to use the term survivor or victim to refer to individuals who
have been trafficked?
g. Have you noticed any changes over time in how human trafficking is reported,
generally or in the newspapers you have worked for? How does this compare to
how news reporting has changed in general?

12. Approximately how many articles have you written about human trafficking?
a. Can you describe the newspapers where your work on human trafficking has been
published?
1) Online/paper/both
2) Small/large media outlets
3) Rural/urban
4) High/low readership
b. Over the time you have been writing about human trafficking, how has your
perspective been shaped or changed?
c. What information/sources have informed your work on human trafficking?
1) What source has been the most salient to you?

Role of Reporters

13. What is the role of news reporting? What is the purpose of news media reporting on human
trafficking?
a. Inform public
b. Prevent future HT
c. Intervention
1) Services for human trafficking victims
2) Criminal justice system response
d. Enact legislative change
14. Do you have any additional comments on the topic of crime reporting and human
trafficking?

Thank you for your time. We appreciate your participation.

Finally, do you know of other reporters in Illinois that we might speak to who have reported on
human trafficking in the past year and a half?

 