ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
COORDINATING COUNCIL ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, August 9, 2018, at 1:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Roll Call
Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 1:05 p.m. and Deputy General Counsel
Robin Murphy called the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Paula Wolff (Chair)

X

Mary Ann Dyar (Adult Redeploy)

X

Shataun Hailey (VAWA MDT)

X

Telephone

X

Marcus Hardy (IDOC)
Dr. David Olson (CJCC)

X

Mary Ratliff (FVCC)
Luisa Salazar (Focused Deterrence)

X
X
X

Hon. George Timberlake
Other Authority Members Present

Absent

Present

Telephone

Hon. Elizabeth Robb

X

Director Baldwin

X

Rebecca Janowitz for President
Preckwinkle

X

Hon. Carla Barnes

X

Marty Malowitz for ISP Director Leo
Schmitz

X

Absent

 Era Laudermilk for Cook Co. Public
Defender Amy Campanelli

X

Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa
Madigan

X

Susie Park for CPD Superintendent Eddie
Johnson

X

Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X

Also in attendance were:
Caitlin DeLong, ICJIA Policy Coordinator
Dawn English, ICJIA Human Resource Specialist
Kalyn Hill, National Governor’s Association
John Maki, ICJIA Executive Director
Robin Murphy, ICJIA, Deputy General Counsel
Bryant Jackson-Green, ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor
Adriana Perez, Adult Redeploy Illinois Program Manager
Tracy Hahn, ICJIA Manager of the Center for Sponsored Research and Program
Development
Elise Simonson, National Governor’s Association
Tammy Woodhams, National Criminal Justice Association
Approval of Minutes
Minutes of the April 19th CCAC meeting were approved. Hon. Carla Barnes moved and
Dr. David Olson seconded. Minutes from the June 9, 2018, meeting were approved. Dr.
David Olson moved and Hon. Carla Barnes seconded.
Member Updates
The meeting began with members’ updates on their respective programs. Ms.
Salazar discussed the JAG Partnership grantees. She said ICJIA released the notice of
funding opportunity for the program’s third year, and applications are due
September 8. She said training is being given to the sites for the remainder of the
current grant year and that the grantees are focusing on building capacity for
program implementation. Director Maki noted ICJIA serves as fiscal agent for
Project Safe Neighborhoods Central and Northern district programs of and that sites
are required to develop strategic plans.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 2

 Ms. Janowitz raised a concern that social services involved in focused deterrence
programs struggle to connect with clients during the call-ins. Dr. Alderden
suggested Project Safe Neighborhoods sites should rethink how they connect clients
to social services, because the call-in is a stressful experience and it might not be the
best time. Chair Wolff asked if public defenders were involved in focused deterrence
efforts and Ms. Salazar confirmed that they play an active role.

Judge Timberlake gave an update on the Juvenile Justice Coordinating Councils
(JJCCs). He said the Illinois Juvenile Justice Commission funds seven JJCCs and that
the commission is planning an all-sites meeting.

Mr. Jackson-Green gave an update on the Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils. He
reported Winnebago County recently began to formalize its CJCC. He said ICJIA
provided a bylaw template and Dr. Olson connected Winnebago to McLean County
leadership for advice on the formalization process.

Mr. Jackson-Green said the next major project will be to develop a section on ICJIA’s
website for the CJCCs. He said these reports are based on analyses of crime trends in
partner CJCC counties and reports for McHenry and St. Clair are forthcoming.

Dr. Olson then gave an update on other CJCC developments. He said he is working on
completing draft analyses of crime trends for Macon and Madison counties, which
will then be presented to criminal justice stakeholders in each jurisdiction. He said
Lake County selected jail utilization as the focus of its research project. Loyola is. He
added Loyola is working with the Rockford mayor, who wants to make Rockford a
trauma-informed city.
Ms. Hailey gave an update on the Violence Against Women Act multidisciplinary
teams (MDT). She said the MDTs just finished the second quarter of their third and
final year of funding. She said the next notice of funding opportunity for MDTs
would be released soon, with a grant start date of January 1, 2019.

Ms. Dyar gave an update on the Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI) program. She said ARI
staff was nearly done processing continuation grants for 44 counties, totaling $7.56
million. She said ARI was able to maintain sites and add others this year. She said
ARI also will offer at least two funding opportunities for program expansion. She
noted the next ARI Oversight Board meeting was scheduled for August 20 and
would feature a discussion on process evaluations conducted at four ARI sites by
Southern Illinois University at Carbondale researchers

Ms. Ratliff gave an update on the Family Violence Coordinating Councils (FVCC). She
said there are 13 active councils for FY 2019, down from 24 councils in previous
years. She said the IFVCC program would be applying for an Office of Violence
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 3

 Against Women arrest grant program extension. In addition, she said they are
updating law enforcement and judicial protocols for elder abuse and abuse of
people with disabilities, which they hope to develop into a webinar training.

Chair Wolff asked if general revenue funds for the FVCC and ARI sites were received
in a timely manner. Ms. Dyar responded that they were not and that
reimbursements for Feb expenses were received in June. Ms. Ratliff added that some
coordinators have quit because they weren’t paid. Judge Timberlake mentioned the
JJCCs had received one payment in mid-May for February expenses.
ARI/CJCC Summit Report

Mr. Jackson-Green then presented on the ARI/CJCC summit held May 8-10. Mr.
Jackson-Green explained why the summit was held, the goals of the summit, and who
attended.
Ms. Hora asked how the ICJIA Board can help implement recommendations included in
the summit report. Director Maki said the Board developed the CCAC to systematize
how it addresses various issues.
Dr. Olson suggested making the recommendations more specific to the needs of small
counties, which are different from rural counties. Judge Robb added that the report
should be careful not to use the term “downstate” too inclusively.
Discussion on Designing a Funding Scheme for Planning and Coordination
Mr. Jackson-Green explained the need to develop a funding scheme for planning and
coordination activities in the state. Many counties are interested in coordinating
councils and similar initiatives, but they are unable to reliably support the staff
needed to facilitate the work, he said. Unfunded coordinators often get busy with
other work, as their primary jobs have to take priority, he added. Mr. Jackson-Green
said ICJIA wanted to fund coordination and planning through the Justice Assistance
Grant program, but the JAG appropriation had not been released to Illinois.

Ms. Dyar discussed ARI’s experiences with fund planning and coordination as an
example of how a funding process for coordinating councils might be designed. She
explained ARI issues grants specifically for a planning process. She said ARI typically
offers between $10,000 and $20,000 per county or group of counties to convene
stakeholders, and for data analysis, data collection, data review, and preparation of
the ARI program application.
Ms. Hailey mentioned that VAWA coordinators work full-time on their grant
programs. Ms. Ratliff said FVCC coordinators are no longer working full-time and
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 4

 that she was impressed by how some unfunded councils still meet despite funding
cuts. Director Maki suggested ICJIA staff investigate what other coordinators the
agency is funding to see if coordinators might be split between multiple projects.

Next, Ms. Salazar gave an overview of the planning components of the focused
deterrence notice of funding opportunity. A full-time project manager and research
partner are required during the planning stages of the program, she said, adding
that the project manager is required to study the focused deterrence model during
the first year. Ms. Salazar said research has been vital to the planning process for
focused deterrence sites. Director Maki mentioned ICJIA sometimes mediates
between grantees and researchers when issues arise and assists them in securing
new researchers when needed. Chair Wolff suggested placing a page on ICJIA’s
website that includes testimonials on research and why it is important in the
planning process.
New Business

There was no new business.
Public Comment
Chair Wolff offered the floor for public comment. Tammy Woodham from the National
Criminal Justice Association (NCJA) discussed VAWA funding, mentioning her
understanding that funding will be approved. Dr. Olson announced that Loyola
University will be hosting an event in partnership with the Administrative Office of
Illinois Courts on probation policy and practice in September.
Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 2:46 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2018
Page 5

 