ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
August 27, 2015
2:00 p.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Strategic Opportunities Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority met on Thursday, August 27, 2015, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large
Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois. Authority Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair
Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 2:05 p.m. Authority General Counsel Lisa
Stephens called the roll.
Other Authority members and designees present were:
Gladyse Taylor for Director John Baldwin
Director Patrick Delfino
Steven Caluris for Superintendent Garry McCarthy
James Chadd for Director Michael J. Pelletier
Lanetta Haynes Turner for President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb (via teleconference)
Chief Rick Tanksley
Also in attendance were:
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
John Baldwin (via teleconference), Director – Illinois Department of Corrections
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Shai Hoffman, Authority Program Supervisor
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Administrative Assistant
Mary Ratliff (via teleconference), Authority Program Supervisor
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Linda Taylor, Authority Federal Award Specialist
Rebecca Janowitz
Other Authority staff members and guests.

 1. Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) Charge
Executive Director John Maki said that when the Authority was created, it had two
principal functions; planning and securing funding. He said that he thought it would make
more sense to have separate planning and budget committee working in concert than it
would to have planning be a charge of the Budget Committee alone. He said that the
proposed charge for the SOC included a three-year strategic plan that would be timed to
coincide with gubernatorial elections so that the plan’s framework would be viable
beyond the current administration’s tenure and be useful for future administrations.
Director Maki, referring to the 2001 Criminal Justice Plan for the State of Illinois that
was included in the meeting materials, said that he wanted the Authority to get back to
that kind of framework; one in which planning for the state’s entire justice system is
addressed.
SOC Chair Paula Wolff said that, assuming the consensus is that the SOC wants to adopt
such a framework, the SOC would need to determine how to go about crafting it. This is
the core of the SOC’s charge.

2. Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) Principles
Director Maki called attention to a list included in the meeting materials entitled
Principles to Guide Authority’s Work. These principles are intended to guide the
Authority’s work and produce high-level outcomes.
Guest Rebecca Janowitz, of the Cook County Board of Commissioners’ President Toni
Preckwinkle’s office, said that the principles listed do not address some of the criminal
justice system’s daily challenges. She asked if it was the duty of the SOC to add to this
list of principles or to merely abide by them.
SOC Chair Wolff said that she wanted to ask staff to review Ms. Janowitz’s suggestions
(disproportionate minority contact, victims having voices, and efficiency and
effectiveness) and draft them as principles for review by the entire Committee.
Lanetta Haynes Turner said that the priorities should capture the principles to some
extent; the principles would be the overarching ideas and the priorities would be more
narrow goals.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
August 27, 2015
Page 2

 Director Maki said that the priorities might describe where we want to go, but the
principles would describe why we want to go there.
Director Patrick Delfino said that at some point he needs to know how much money is
coming into the Authority and via what pipelines; how much of it is committed to
continuation of existing programs; how much of it is new money with pre-existing
conditions. We need to define what resources are available to support a plan; who makes
the decisions as to who gets what; what are the criteria for those decisions; and how
develops the criteria?
Director Maki said that this is where the SOC and the Budget Committee intersect. The
Board’s job is to provide a general vision and framework under which the Authority
would operate. For example, it would guide how much money goes toward continuing
existing grants versus seeding innovation. He said that the Authority was very good at
this at one point and he would like to see it return to that kind of model. He said that an
overview of the Authority’s federal funding streams was provided at the June 19, 2015
Budget Committee meeting, but many state-funded programs allowed the Authority little
or no discretion regarding spending.
James Chadd representing Director Michael J. Pelletier said that due process and fair and
accurate procedures appeared to be under-emphasized in the list of Principles. While they
might be partially subsumed under the Legitimacy Principle, they are worthy Principles
themselves.
Ms. Haynes Turner said that rehabilitation and services should also be addressed. The
coordination of system services might be attached to the Efficiency Principle. With
regard to research, information sharing should be a core Principle not only among stakeholders, but also among the general public.

3. Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) Existing Grant Making Principles
Director Maki called attention to the Grant Making Principles described in the Authority
Resolution #2 (2001) that was included in the meeting materials. He said that since they
were approved by a prior Board, they are binding, but in recent years the Authority has
strayed from them. They address many of the concerns raised at this meeting and they
should serve as a guide for this Board.
Director Maki said that the Authority did not deal with state funds for most of its history,
which is why the Grant Making Principles only refer to federal funds. The SOC reached a
general consensus that these Grant Making Principles should apply to all funding
streams.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
August 27, 2015
Page 3

 Motion: Ms. Haynes Turner moved to amend the Grant Making Principles, as presented
in the meeting materials, to broaden their scope from applying to federal funds only to
applying to all funds and to recommend those amendments to the Authority Board. Chief
Rick Tanksley seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote. This motion
will be presented to the full Board for approval.

4. Authority Existing Mandates – Internal and Federal
SOC Chair Wolff called attention to the document included in the meeting materials
entitled Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Major Formula Funds.
Authority Program Supervisor Greg Stevens, referring to the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority Major Formula Funds document, explained the mandates of the
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). He said that the JAG
priorities are the most flexible of any of the major federal programs administered by the
Authority.
Director Maki said that JAG could be used to innovate and to seed new programs and that
JAG will fund some of the research-driven needs of the state.
Director Maki, referring to the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Major
Formula Funds document, explained the mandates of the Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA) and the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) programs.
SOC Chair Wolff suggested adding specific grant time-frames to the process principles;
that new grants would run for one year and be allowed to be renewed for up to three
years, or some similar set of conditions.
Mr. Stevens said that the new Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA)
requirements define grant time-frame eligibility.
It was agreed that the Committee should be briefed on the new GATA elements once the
federal rules and regulations are formally adopted.
Research and Analysis Unit PowerPoint Presentation
Authority Research and Analysis (R&A) Unit Associate Director Megan Alderden
delivered a PowerPoint presentation (available at ---site link) entitled Strategic Research
and Funding that described the role of the R&A Unit. She said that the creation of the
SOC provided an opportunity to focus the efforts of the R&A Unit.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
August 27, 2015
Page 4

 Director Maki said that it is critical for research to be related to funding from the
beginning of new programs, otherwise they will lack focus from the beginning. This
helps keep new funding in line with the visions endorsed by the Board.
The Committee discussed its next steps in developing a schedule of meetings at which it
would devise a process to create the priority framework and would implement that
process.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Gladyse Taylor moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Haynes Turner
seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned
at 3:52 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
August 27, 2015
Page 5

 