ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
AD HOC BOARD COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, July 12, 2018, at 11:00 a.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Roll Call
Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 11:05 a.m. and Acting General Counsel
Malgorzata Bereziewicz called the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Hon. Elizabeth Robb (Chair)

Absent

X

Deputy Director Antwan Turpeau

X

Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X

Director Paula Wolff

X

Other Authority Members Present

Present

Era Laudermilk for Amy Campanelli

X

Nicole Kramer for Hon. Kimberly Foxx

X

Chief Barbara West for Supt. Eddie Johnson

X

Dr. David Olson

X

Rebecca Janowitz for Pres. Toni Preckwinkle

X

Director Kathy Saltmarsh
Jim O’Grady for Leo Schmitz

Telephone

Telephone

X
X

Also in attendance were:
Dr. Megan Alderden, ICJIA Research Director
Malgorzata Bereziewicz, ICJIA Acting General Counsel
Wanda Block, ICJIA Grant Monitor
Caitlin DeLong, ICJIA Executive Assistant
Rise Evans, ICJIA Grant Monitor
Bryant Jackson-Green, ICJIA Strategic Policy Analyst

Absent

 Randy Kurtz, ICJIA Chief Financial Officer
John Maki, ICJIA Executive Director
Robin Murphy, ICJIA Deputy Counsel
Gregory Stevens, ICJIA Acting Associate Director of the Federal and State Grants Unit
Executive Director’s Report
After a warm welcome from Chair Robb and brief introductions, Director Maki gave an
overview of what he hopes to accomplish through the Authority Board Committee. He
recounted how increasing the transparency and accountability of the grantmaking process
readied the agency to strategically plan and effectively distribute more funds than ever
before. He expressed confidence that examination of the Board’s responsibilities and
procedures would further cement these positive changes. He suggested the committee
submit recommendations to the full Board on amending ICJIA’s statute and
administrative rules as needed and designing a system to regularly update Authority
members on grantee progress.
Discussion: Strengths and Weaknesses of Meetings and Committees
Director Maki asked members to share suggestions or concerns that could be addressed
by the committee. Ms. Vollen-Katz praised ICJIA staff for the increase in Board
productivity and functioning, and noted the 2013-14 audit made Budget Committee
members more sensitive to their fiduciary responsibilities. Ms. Wolff suggested a
flowchart that illustrates the checks and balances involved in the grantmaking process
might help members feel more comfortable with staff’s work on program development.
Ms. Janowitz shared that the Justice Advisory Commission keeps their Board informed
and engaged by building a presentation on their organization’s history and mission,
including old statutes, and holding public meetings that explain that year’s available
grants.
Ms. Kramer suggested more panel presentations where Authority members may ask
questions about program replicability, receive updates on program outcomes, and get
more information on how funding opportunities are developed internally.
Observing the ratio of designees to members, Dr. Olson recalled past iterations of the
Authority Board, when agency initiatives were not available online for viewing and
appointed members were compelled to attend meetings themselves to get information. He
suggested hosting presentations on pressing topics with national experts and advertising
the presentations to the broader community interested in justice outcomes.
Ms. Wolff asked attendees what presentation topic would interest them. Responses
included the need for community health providers; an annual ”State of the State” address
with prison, crime, arrest, and court data; an assessment of how ICJIA funds affect the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Board Committee Meeting Minutes
July 12, 2018
Page 2

 community; the needs of first responders; and status of the trauma recovery centers. Ms.
Saltmarsh added that she would be more interested in diverse Illinois presenters than
national experts. Ms. Laudermilk observed that agency heads make meetings a priority
when ICJIA asks to hear their point of view. Ms. Janowitz added that her organization
receives invitations tomany events with nationally recognized speakers, but presentations
that catch the attention of leadership are ones that specify why programs work in one
jurisdiction in Illinois but perhaps not others. Ms. Wolff suggested that the staff share
with the Committee at its next meeting what changes to the Authority statute and rules
they think would be important.
Adjourn
Ms. Wolff offered the floor for public comment. Seeing none, she moved to adjourn. A
motion to adjourn was made by Ms. Vollen-Katz and seconded by Dr. Olson. The
meeting adjourned at 12:06 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Board Committee Meeting Minutes
July 12, 2018
Page 3

 