ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, April 27, 2017, at 1:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Roll Call
Committee Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 1:06 p.m. and asked General
Counsel Angie Weis to call the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Paula Wolff (Chair)

X

Telephone

Director John Baldwin

Absent

X

Director Patrick Delfino

X

Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson

X

Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan X
Sheriff Michael McCoy

X

Director Michael J. Pelletier

X

President Toni Preckwinkle

X

Other Authority Members Present

Present

Clerk Dorothy Brown

X

Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Chief Jim O’Grady for Director Leo Schmitz

Telephone

X
X

Also in attendance were:
Junaid Afeef, Authority Targeted Violence Prevention Program Director
Megan Alderden, Authority Research Director
Malgorzata Bereziewicz, Authority VOCA Attorney
Maureen Brennan, Authority Grant Monitor

Absent

 Caitlin DeLong, Authority Executive Assistant
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Mary Ann Dyar, Adult Redeploy Illinois Associate Director
Kevin Givens, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Associate Director
Shai Hoffman, Authority Grant Manager
Jaclyn Kolnik, Authority Research Manager
Lindsay LaPointe, Adult Redeploy Illinois Program Manager
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Robin Murphy, Authority Deputy Counsel
Adriana Perez, Authority Grant Monitor
Elena Quintana, Adler University
Ronnie Reichgelt, Authority Grant Manager
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Angie Weis, Authority General Counsel
After the initial roll call, four of the five Committee members needed for a quorum were
present. Chairman Wolff suggested moving to agenda items that did not require a
quorum.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki thanked the Committee and Authority staff for their hard work in moving
from plans that had begun in the Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) to
implementation. At this point in the cycle, he explained, the SOC would be starting to
look at possibilities for 2018, especially as the Victims of Crime Act recently expanded
eligibility.
Victim-Centered Restorative Justice Research Presentation
The Victim of Crimes Act permits resources to be allocated for restorative justice.
Authority Research Director Megan Alderden explained the context for the use of these
resources and began by clarifying that while restorative justice philosophy has always
included the victim perspective, the victim-centered model is a specific type of
restorative justice that is defined by the desires of the victim rather than by an interest in
diversion of the perpetrator from the criminal justice system. She described three pillars
of victim-centered restorative justice: addressing harms and needs, meeting obligations to
restore the victim, and engaging stakeholders. Victim needs include information about
the crime, the ability to talk about how the crime affected them, empowerment, and
restitution or repair of harm. Dr. Alderden quoted expert Howard Zehr in listing critiques,
which include a focus on offender needs rather than victim needs, intrusion of system
goals (such as a reduction in criminal justice population), and a lack of victim input in the
planning process. She also reported that Zehr’s ideal restorative justice systems would

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
April 27, 2017
Page 2

 have victim involvement at all stages, optional dialogue with the offender, involvement
of the victim’s support network, practitioner training, and take place in a safe
environment. She said research support is mixed, with a meta-analysis of restorative
justice programs finding victim satisfaction and higher rates of offender restitution but
limited by the halo effect and self-selection bias. Dr. Alderden recommended explicit
guidelines, ample oversight to ensure compliance to guidelines prescribed by the Office
of Victims of Crime (OVC), and rigorous evaluation that focuses on victim outcomes.
Dr. Alderden described restorative justice in Pennsylvania, endorsed as victim-centered
by the OVC. Though other states use this process for lower-level, petty, or juvenile
crimes, in Pennsylvania, many violent and sexual crimes are processed through this
system. Dr. Alderden reported that Pennsylvania’s victim advocacy agency runs a victimoffender dialogue process and an apology letter bank.
Meeting attendees commented on barriers to operating this program outside of the
criminal justice system, what will be allowed under VOCA funding, success of
restorative justice in the United Kingdom, overlap between victim and offender
populations, cost and evaluation of the Pennsylvania restorative justice programs, and the
Restorative Justice Community Center in North Lawndale.
Victims of Crime Act Updates
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor, summarized recent progress
on VOCA funding opportunities. She said transitional housing grants had been executed,
programs began in March, and funding totaled to $2.1 million. She said legal civil
services applications were being reviewed and requests totaled $7.1 million. A notice of
funding opportunity for unmet needs of underserved populations was planned for release
in May 2017.
According to Director Maki and Ms. Desai, the combination of the new GATA grant
process and new rules on what is allowable under VOCA has challenged the staff to
refine the language used in notices and reach out to the philanthropic community to help
score applications and communicate gaps in what the agency is not allowed to fund.
Justice Assistance Grant Updates
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor, summarized recent progress on JAG
funding opportunities. Following Budget Committee approval, applications for grants to
support law enforcement responses to narcotics were due in May 2017, and, once scored,
suitable applications will be presented to the Budget Committee in September for a
anticipated program start date in October 2017. Mr. Stevens also described the residential

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
April 27, 2017
Page 3

 substance abuse treatment and aftercare services funding opportunity, for which
applications are due June 13, 2017.

Public Comment
There was no public comment.
Adjournment
With no further business, Chair Wolff asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Hora moved to
adjourn. The motion was seconded by Ms. Preckwinkle. The meeting was adjourned at
2:57 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
April 27, 2017
Page 4

 