ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312)
793-8550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board
Meeting Minutes
May 3, 2018, 1:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
Dr. Harrington called the meeting to order at 1:07 p.m. ICJIA Associate General Counsel
Simeon Kim called the roll.
Member Name
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Executive Director John Maki, ICJIA
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak
Dr. Ana Lucic

Present

Absent
X
X

By Telephone

X
X
X
X
X

Five members were present in person, and a quorum was established.
II. Approval of Meeting Minutes: March 29, 2018.
Dr. Harrington asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Dr. Cooper moved to approve the
minutes. Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. Ms. Szilak and Dr. Long abstained. The motion
passed by voice vote.
III. Applications for Review
a. Mental Health Crisis Response Survey
Principal investigators: Alysson Gatens and Megan Alderden
Ms. Gatens said that one respondent from each police department and sheriff’s
department in Illinois will complete an online survey regarding their department’s present
Page   1

 policies and practices when responding to mental health crisis incidents. She said that the
researchers will ask them about the availability of mental health services in their
community.
Dr. Lucic asked who would be responding to the questions because it should be someone
with knowledge of the department. She said that the questions seem more appropriate for
chiefs or superintendents. If an officer of lower rank responded to the survey, they would
probably have to consult someone of higher rank for help. Dr. Harrington asked if the
survey asks for people who are knowledgeable about policies and procedures to be
designated to answer the survey. Dr. Cooper said that he shared Dr. Lucic’s and Dr.
Harrington’s concerns and suggested using language such as you or whoever you think is
most knowledgeable. Ms. Gatens said that there isn’t any language like that, but she can
add it.
Dr. Harrington said that he read the survey, and felt that the survey would take more than
5 – 10 minutes as indicated on the survey. Ms. Gatens said that it may take some
participants as little as 3 minutes because they would not necessarily have to answer each
question, but she would change the survey time to 5 – 15 minutes.
Dr. Harrington asked for a motion to approve the application. Dr. Cooper moved to
approve the application. Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
b. Evaluation of Pathway to Enterprise for Returning Citizens amendment
Principle Investigators: Jessica Reichert and Justin Escamilla
Ms. Reichert said that the amendment is proposing to add research interns who will be
analyzing data as well as a project advisor. She said that the main changes will add two
components (1) client interviews, and (2) a single focus group.
Dr. Harrington asked how this amendment is different from what was done before. Ms.
Reichert said that they did a survey before, and now the researchers want to do a face-toface interview. Dr. Lucic said that there are parts of the amendment where the researcher
tells the subject that the researcher will never use your name. She said that there are other
identifying pieces of information that will be collected such as date of birth and place of
birth. Dr. Lucic recommended that Ms. Reichert include in her statement to subjects that
other personal information will never be used. Ms. Reichert said there are three places
where it appears, and that she will modify the forms to include “names and other
information”.
Dr. Harrington asked for a motion to approve of the application. Ms. Szilak made a
motion to approve the application. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The motion passed
by unanimous voice vote.

Page   2

 IV. Old business
None.
V. New Business
A. Caitlin DeLong notified the board that Chairperson Era Laudermilk approved the
Evaluation of the Safe Passage Initiative renewal application through the expedited IRB
approval process.
B. Ms. DeLong discussed new IRB application forms.
VI. Adjourn
Dr. Harrington asked for a motion to adjourn. Dr. Cooper moved to adjourn. Dr. Lucic seconded
the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
The IRB meeting adjourned at approximately 1:45 pm.

Page   3

 