ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 7938550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board
Meeting Minutes
December 7, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

I. Call to Order and Roll Call
John Maki called the meeting to order at 1:05 p.m. ICJIA Associate General Counsel
Simeon Kim called the roll.
Member Name
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Executive Director John Maki, ICJIA
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak
Dr. Ana Lucic

Present

Absent
X

By Telephone

X
X
X
X
X
X

Four members were present and a quorum was established. Dr. Cooper arrived at
approximately 1:10 p.m.
II. Approval of Meeting Minutes: October 19, 2017
Director Maki asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Ms. Szilak moved to approve
the minutes. Dr. Long seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously by voice
vote.
III. Applications for Review
A. Evaluation of Pathway to Enterprise for Returning Citizens (PERC) Program: Focus
Groups
Principle investigators: Jessica Reichert and Justin Escamilla
Page   1

 There was no discussion. Director Maki asked for a motion to approve the application. Ms.
Szilak moved to approve the application. Dr. Lucic seconded the motion. The motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. Evaluation of Dual Diagnosis Program in Logan Correctional Center
Principle investigator: Jessica Reichert
Ms. Szilak said that she noticed on the consent form subjects are advised that they can
withdraw at any time. She said that it might be wise to further specify to the inmates there
would be no penalty for withdrawing since they are in custody and might think they would
be subject to disciplinary action if they withdrew. Ms. Reichert said that she could add that
language.
Director Maki asked for a motion to approve the application. Dr. Cooper moved to approve
the application. Ms. Szilak seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
C. Preliminary Study of LGBTQ Victimization and Help-Seeking
Principle Investigators: Amanda L. Vasquez and Dr. Jaclyn Kolnik
Dr. Kolnik said in the study they will conduct cognitive mapping interviews with
individuals that identify as both LGBTQ and victims of crime. She said they were working
on appropriate wording for questions to be asked of the LGBTQ population.
Dr. Long said that in the interview protocol it might be helpful to ask in the beginning
how the subjects would like to be addressed, such as he, she, or they, so that they feel
more comfortable, and to give the researcher more knowledge.
Dr. Cooper asked whether the resources being offered to assist those who have an
adverse reaction to questions regarding past victimization are sufficient. Dr. Kolnik said
she was consulting with service providers, grassroots organizations, and LGBTQ
advocacy groups regarding resource list sufficiency. She added that a point of contact for
each resource will be provided. Dr. Cooper said that having a person who is on call that
knows about the study is important.
Director Maki asked for a motion to approve the application. Ms. Szilak moved to approve
the application. Dr. Long seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
D. Community Focus Groups to Inform Countering Violent Extremism Training
Curriculum
Principle Investigators: Dr. Megan Alderden and Lily Gleicher
Page   2

 Dr. Alderden said that the purpose of the focus groups is to get community input on
developing program components.
Director Maki asked for a motion to approve the application. Ms. Szilak moved to approve
the application. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
IV. Old business
None.
V. New Business
A. Director Maki informed the Board that an expedited IRB application was approved by
Era Laudermilk. The application was an amendment to a research project called Building
Capacity for Producing Unbiased Estimates of Recidivism: Examining the Recidivism of
Firearm Offenders Using State Criminal History and Mortality Data.
B. Outcome Evaluation of the Safe Passage Initiative amendment
Principle investigator: Jessica Reichert
Ms. Reichert altered the Board of a protocol change. She said the original IRB application
stated documents would be sent by mail, but many of the treatment providers prefer
encrypted emails. She also noted a change to the consent document. She said the number of
study participants was changed as an incorrect number was listed in the original
application.
Director Maki asked for a motion to approve the application. Dr. Cooper moved to approve
the application. Ms. Szilak seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
VI. Adjourn
Director Maki asked for a motion to adjourn. Ms. Szilak moved to adjourn. Dr. Cooper
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
The meeting adjourned at approximately 1:20 p.m.

Page   3

 