ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
May 25, 2016, 10 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority met on Wednesday, May 25, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference
Room, in Chicago, Illinois. Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair Paula Wolff called the
meeting to order at 10:05 a.m.

SOC Member Attendance
Director John Baldwin
Director Patrick Delfino
Steve Caluris for Superintendent Eddie Johnson
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Director Michael J. Pelletier
Lanetta Haynes Turner for President Toni
Preckwinkle
Rick Tanksley
Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

Present

Other Authority Members Present
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Sheriff Tom Dart
Jennifer Greene for State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Elizabeth Robb, Authority Chair
Jennifer Vollen-Katz

Present*
X

Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X

*All Authority members present were appointed by Authority Chair Robb to the SOC for the duration of
the meeting to attain a quorum.

Also in attendance were:
Megan Alderden, Authority Research & Analysis Unit Associate Director
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Kathleen A. Doherty representing the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network
Kevin Givens, Authority Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director

 Randy Kurtz, Authority Deputy Director
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Administrative Assistant
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Angie Weis, Authority General Counsel
Other Authority staff members and guests
April 27, 2016, Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
Motion: Authority Chair Robb moved to approve the minutes of the April 27, 2016,
Strategic Opportunities Committee meeting. Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the motion and the
motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
FFY16 Strategic Opportunities Committee Action Steps
Authority Executive Director Maki referred to the May 25th Strategic Opportunities
Committee Meeting Information memo that outlines the FFY16 Strategic Opportunities
Committee Action Steps (Attachment A). He presented action steps previously approved
by the Committee and Authority staff’s corresponding recommendations via a
PowerPoint presentation and handout (Attachment B).
In response to a request for feedback on the plan, Director Delfino said the process will
ensure needs are assessed in the context of other available funds. Ms. Vollen-Katz said
the process will allow the Board to have a clear and robust discussion on priorities. Chair
Wolff suggested posting the action steps on the agency’s website so that the plan and
goals are clear. She also suggested the group consider how and when to gather feedback
from the public.
Director Maki said the needs assessment process will require a lot from the staff and the
Board; however, it will allow a well-reasoned and developed process that achieves the
most good and helps the most people.
In response to Director Delfino’s question related to resource equity, Director Maki said
questions related to other revenue streams and resource allocation can be added to future
grant applications in Authority requests for proposals.
Associate Director Megan Alderden encouraged Committee members to attend the focus
groups and said the Research & Analysis Unit will be reaching out to them to solicit
interest in the focus groups and subsequent survey.
The group discussed the importance of the Authority’s Research & Analysis Unit and its
historical and current funding. Since the Research and Analysis Unit is in the Authority’s
mandate, it clearly fits the statewide benefit criteria outlined in Action Step #3.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
May 25, 2016
Page 2

 Steve Caluris, representing the Chicago Police Department, suggested strengthening
networking activities among state agencies that have research and development
components so they might help one another identify what kinds of data have already been
collected and how that might have cross-disciplinary impact.
Motion: Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to approve the action steps as described in the meeting
materials. Director Pelletier seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote.
Public Comment
Kathleen A. Doherty, representing the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s
Network, said that despite the 25-percent increase in most existing Victims of Crime Act
(VOCA) grant awards to sexual assault and domestic violence agencies, the agencies are
still in dire need of funding due to the state’s budget situation. She said due to the budget
situation, the 25-percent increase that many agencies will receive will not be enough to
maintain salaries at current levels. She asked that in order to avoid losing services, the
Authority consider increasing domestic violence and victim service VOCA grants beyond
the 25-percent many of them will see.
Other Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to adjourn the meeting. Director Delfino seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
10:57 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
May 25, 2016
Page 3

 