MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, September 11, 2015 at 9:15 a.m.
300 West Adams Street, 2nd Floor Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois

I. Roll Call
Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the September 11, 2015
quarterly Board Meeting of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. She
called the meeting to order and asked General Counsel Lisa Stephens to call the roll.
In addition to Chair Robb, Authority Board Members in attendance were:
Clerk Dorothy Brown (after Roll Call)
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director Patrick Delfino
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Ms. Cindy Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
President Toni Preckwinkle (after Roll Call)
Director Leo Schmitz
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Ms. Paula Wolff
Because there was not a quorum at roll call, Chair Robb said matters that did not require
one would be addressed first, until a quorum was established. She then asked for a
moment of silence to remember all the lives that were lost on the date of the Board
meeting 14 years ago during the World Trade Center tragedy, including many members
of the public safety community.
Next, she welcomed new Board Members and had them introduce and give brief
background about themselves. Included were Sheriff Michael McCoy, who has been in
law enforcement since 1971 and Peoria County Sheriff, starting 2002; Ms. Pam
Paziotopoulus, who practices family law, consults with companies on domestic violence,
and teaches at Kent College of Law; Maureen Josh, Circuit Court Clerk of DeKalb
County, who had been on the Authority Board previously from 2000 to 2006; and Bryan
Kibler, who was elected Effingham County State’s Attorney in 2012. Chair Robb again
welcomed and thanked them on behalf of the Board.

1

 With a quorum still pending, Chair Robb moved on to other matters not requiring one,
starting with Public Comment.
II. Public Comment
Chair Robb explained that Public Comment was the opportunity for members of the
public who wish to speak, and reminded everyone that pursuant to rules adopted at the
last Authority Board Meeting, there is a three-minute limit and comments must be
germane to the listed agenda items. With no response to Chair Robb’s request for Public
Comment, she moved on to make her remarks.
III. Chair’s Remarks
Chair Robb said that she was trying to speak with each of the new Board Members
individually, and although that has not been accomplished, she still planned to do so. She
noted that since the last Authority Board Meeting, Board Members and staff, and
particularly Executive Director John Maki, have been working extremely hard under
difficult conditions with no state budget as yet, which has been very challenging.
She also reported that since the last Authority Board Meeting, two Committees have been
very active: the Budget Committee which has been a part of the Authority for many
years, chaired by Cynthia Hora; and the new Strategic Opportunities Committee, which
had its first meeting recently, chaired by Paula Wolff. She thanked both Chairs and said
she was eager to work with them in moving forward the goals of the Authority. She
added that on behalf of all Board Members she also wanted to thank the staff for their
energy and teamwork putting together a great deal of strategic planning with the
leadership of the Authority.
She went on to say that for future meetings, it is important for Board Members to provide
input for subject areas of interest related to criminal justice and information issues. She
stressed the importance of having an engaged Board as a significant resource given each
Member’s expertise and welcomed suggestions. At that point, Clerk Dorothy Brown
arrived, making- up a quorum. Chair Robb returned to the agenda, calling for a motion to
approve the minutes of the June 5, 2015 Regular Authority Meeting.
IV. Approval of the Minutes of June 5, 2015, Regular Authority Meeting
{After Ms. Cynthia Hora corrected Paula Wolff’s name from “Paul” in the listing of
attendees, Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes as amended, with Ms. Hora
seconding the motion. With no response to a call for discussion, the motion was adopted
by unanimous voice vote.}
President Toni Preckwinkle then arrived and Chair Robb moved on to the next item on
the agenda, Resolutions of Commendation, for a unified motion to adopt.

2

 V. Old Business – Resolutions of Commendation
She explained that the Resolutions honored former staff and past Board Members for
their invaluable assistance toward meeting the Authority’s mission to advance the Illinois
criminal justice system by improving the quality of criminal justice information, research
and grant programs. She further explained that the Resolutions were unable to be moved
and adopted at the last Board Meeting because of lack of a quorum and went on to
mention the recipients:
Former staff members:
Jack Cutrone, Authority Executive Director from October, 2009 until January, 2015, who
started previously as the agency’s General Counsel in January, 2006, and with whom she
said she had the opportunity to work when she was a judge and was very grateful for his
friendship and for the calm and quiet way that he led the Authority;
Mark Myrent, Authority Associate Director of Research and Analysis Unit, from March,
2007, until January, 2015, who held prior Authority positions as a Statistical Research
Specialist starting in 1985, and a Senior Research Analyst and Manager for the
Integrated Justice Information Systems Project;
Wendy McCambridge, Associate Director of the Federal and State Grants Unit since
2012 who left the Authority June 18th to become City Clerk of Aurora;
Past Authority Board Members:
Peter M. Ellis, former Authority Chairman from January, 2011 until December, 2014, a
practicing attorney in the Chicago office of Reed Smith LLP, whose experience includes
criminal defense representation;
Abishi Cunningham, former Cook County Public Defender, who served on the Authority
Board from April, 2009 until March, 2015;
Ramon Escapa, Schuyler County State’s Attorney, who served on the Authority Board
from July, 2014 until January, 2015;
William T. Fitzpatrick, Chief of the Glenview Police Department, who served on the
Authority Board from November 30, 2011 until January, 2015;
Salvador Godinez, former Director of the Illinois Department of Corrections, who served
on the Authority Board from May, 2011 until March, 2015.
Felix M. Gonzalez, an attorney in private practice serving on boards of other non-profit
organizations dealing with disadvantaged youth, who served on the Authority Board from
January, 2010 until January, 2015;
Hiram Grau, former Director of the Illinois State Police, who served on the Authority
Board from April, 2011 until January, 2015.

3

 John R. Harvey, a Program Development and Grant Consultant for Chestnut Health
Systems, a not-for-profit mental health and substance abuse treatment agency, who
served on the Authority Board from November, 2011 until January, 2015;
Dr. Lamar Hasbrouck, former Director of the Illinois Department of Public Health, who
served on the Authority Board, from April, 2012 until January, 2015.
Lisa S. Jacobs, Program Manager for the Models for Change Initiative, funded by the
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and managed by Loyola University
School of Law, who served on the Board from November, 2011 until January, 2015.
Patrick B. Perez, former Kane County Sheriff, who served on the Authority Board from
January, 2009 until his retirement as Sheriff in November, 2014;
Randall B. Rosenbaum, Chief Public Defender of Champaign County since 1998, who
served on the Authority Board from May, 2011 until January, 2015.
Angela R. Rudolph, former President of Think. Plan. Do. Consulting, a firm providing
services addressing communications and government relations, policy analysis and social
media strategy development, who served on the Authority Board from November, 20 11
until January, 2015.
Chair Robb next presented the Resolutions of Commendation for a unified motion to
adopt:
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED that the aforementioned former staff and past Board Members
are hereby commended and cited for their dedication and contributions toward meeting
the Authority’s goal of improving the administration of criminal justice in Illinois.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the gratitude and best wishes of this Authority and
the people of the State of Illinois be conveyed to them through the presentation of
appropriate commemoration in honor of their dedicated service and achievement.
She then asked for a unified motion to adopt them.
{President Preckwinkle so moved, with Ms. Cindy Hora seconding the unified motion.
With no response to a call for discussion, the unified motion was adopted by unanimous
voice vote.}
VI. New Business – Revision: ICJIA’s Grant Making Principles
Chair Robb moved on to new business addressing the revision of the Authority’s Grant
Making Principles for approval. Executive Director Maki outlined the background of the
original Grant Making Principles, established and approved in 2011, noting that they deal
only with federal grant making. He said the ones currently being presented for adoption
include state grant making. He also covered the original review process which involved
before Board review and adoption, input from the Budget and Planning and Research
Committees.

4

 Continuing, he said that the Grant Making Principles now being presented for adoption
were reviewed by the Budget Committee along with the Strategic Opportunities
Committee. He stated that both entities agreed that with the addition of state grant
making, the current Grant Making Principles should be adopted. At that point, Chair
Robb asked Clerk Josh who was on the Board at the time the original Grant Making
Principles were adopted her opinion, with Clerk Josh agreeing with Executive Director
Maki. Chair Robb then asked for a motion to adopt the revised ICJIA Grant Making
Principles as presented.
{President Preckwinkle so moved, with Ms. Paula Wolff seconding the motion. With no
response to a call for discussion, the motion was adopted by unanimous voice vote.}
VII. Executive Director’s Report and Remarks
Chair Robb then moved on to the Executive Director’s Report and Remarks. Executive
Director Maki reported that the goal of his report was to give a high-level overview to
keep the Board apprised of the work in which the Authority has been engaged. He added
that if Board Members had feedback or would like other issues covered, he would like
to know so that those issues can be addressed at the next Board Meeting. He then said
that before giving his overview he would like to note that while there has been focus on
past practices and changes to make, he wanted to make clear that in no way he wanted to
diminish prior work of past Boards.
In that regard, he recognized Cindy Hora, a Member of the past and current Board, whom
he said has been a real stalwart, always reliable, particularly in reading the minutes,
evidenced by her amendment. He also recognized State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez, who
has served and continues to serve as Vice-Chair; and in her absence, her Designee
Jennifer Greene, who also is always there to assist. He added that it was in that spirit
that he looked forward to working with all Board Members.
Director Maki then reported that the most visible improvement was the Authority’s new
website. He said that Deputy Director Randy Kurtz was the project leader and the
Authority’s website is now an elegant streamlined presentation of the Authority’s work.
He continued to highlight some of the changes and thanked Deputy Director Kurtz as
well as thanking Anthony Jenkins, Associate Director of Information Technology and his
staff. He added that the improvements also came about through major interdisciplinary
work with all units providing information on the most concise, acceptable way to present
the work they do.
At that point, Deputy Director Kurtz said that in particular Cristin Evans, the Authority’s
Public Information Officer, and Chris Schweda, the Authority’s Webmaster, provided a
great deal of the website development, and reiterated that it was a considerable team
effort with many staff involved. Executive Director Maki then discussed the changes of
how the Authority’s research would be presented, making it more concise, accessible,
and web friendly. He again asked that if anyone had feedback, to please let him know
and added that the Authority was very proud and excited about its new website.

5

 Executive Director Maki moved on to report on another major activity of the Authority in
which he and Chair Robb have been involved, the Illinois Commission on Criminal
Justice and Sentencing Reform. He said they both chair Commission Committees, for
which they have arranged meetings, bringing in speakers and working with the
Committee Members to analyze use of prison crime data. He added that they also have
participated in Commission hearings.
In response to a question by President Preckwinkle as to preliminary findings before the
Commission’s report is released by the end of the year, Chair Robb noted that a
preliminary report was published in June. She said that it is available on the Authority’s
website, because the Authority is providing staff for the Commission. She added that all
the minutes of Commission and Commission Committee Meetings also are on the
website. In addition, she related that the involvement in the hearings by citizens and
communities affected by crime was very impressive and examples of how some
communities have addressed violence in the state of Illinois improving the situation was
hopeful.
Executive Director Maki added that Peoria was one of those communities and noted that
a presentation about its efforts would be made later in the meeting. He also said that he
felt positive about the nuance people are bringing to this issue, that it is not just about
reducing prison populations or controlling crime, but it is about doing both at the same
time. He remarked that there is a wealth of burgeoning effective practices around the
country and in the state that can be drawn upon, which he said gave him confidence.
He moved on mentioning the work of two of the Authority’s Committees: the Budget
Committee and the Strategic Opportunities Committee, noting that the Chairs of those
Committees would be giving updates shortly. He said that the activities of those
Committees have been very invigorating, toward the goal of not only providing
transparency but giving a sense of the reasons for actions taken, particularly with limited
and some cases, diminishing funding for programs to reduce crime and improve public
safety.
Executive Director Maki then reviewed two core units: Federal and State Grants, and
Research and Analysis. He said that the former had been without an Associate Director
for the past three or four months, with Deputy Director Randy Kurtz as acting head for
two of those months and himself serving as head the other period. He went on to say that
he anticipated naming a new Associate Director probably as early as the week after the
meeting. He then gave an overview of a request for proposals that closed the end of
August for the Service Training Officers Prosecutors (STOP) Program affiliated with the
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Program and that applications were currently
being reviewed. He also talked about some of the difficult state funding situations, but
added that the Authority’s federal funding was encouraging.
In response to a question by President Preckwinkle as to the specific impact of the state
funding situation, he said it was very difficult. He added that the Authority is in contact

6

 with the Governor’s Office and grantees trying to bring about solutions. State’s Attorney
Bryan Kibler then gave an example of the problems being experienced, citing the Adult
Redeploy Illinois Mental Health Court in Effingham County now having severely
restricted enrollments. President Preckwinkle then cautioned that after a conversation she
had with the Speaker regarding Cook County financial concerns, it appeared that a
resolution did not seem likely until next year.
Ms. Cynthia Hora then mentioned difficulties victim service programs that rely on state
funding are having, with a number of them laying off staff. In the discussion that
followed, Ms. Paula Wolff asked if the Board could be briefed on the impact of the
financial situation, given the Authority’s fiduciary responsibility for the state grants that
are administered. Executive Director Maki responded that for the next Budget
Committee Meeting there would be scenarios, which will be available to all Board
Members.
He next moved on to discuss and praise the work and direction of the Research and
Analysis Unit under the leadership of Associate Director Dr. Megan Alderden. He
pointed out that in line with the work of the Illinois Commission on Criminal Justice and
Sentencing Reform, there is a more concrete sense of how different counties are using
prison and are responding to crime, adding that it is a level of analysis that has been
missing from many state conversations in the last several years. Executive Director Maki
then noted a letter from the Bureau of Justice Statistics included in the materials thanking
the Authority for work that was done in partnership with the Illinois Department of
Corrections.
He explained that for almost 10 years the Department of Corrections was not able to
report basic vital statistics about its population because of a breakdown in its information
systems, which required a very expensive repair. He further explained that the Authority
received a grant to work with the Department of Corrections to fix the problem and for
the first time in nine years corrections data was able to be reported to the federal
government. Executive Director Maki said this outcome was significant for two reasons:
one, Illinois now is able to ascertain how the state compares nationally; and two, it is
important to the Authority’s federal partners that the Authority is seen as participating in
their information gathering, particularly for funding purposes.
In closing, Executive Director Maki described an evaluation that the Authority is doing
with the city of Peoria and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of their
focused deterrence program, known as “Don’t Shoot,” highlighting its success. He noted
that a presentation about that effort would be made as the last agenda item and also
announced a conference featuring it was going to be held November 4 and 5, in Peoria.
He explained that the conference will bring together representatives from law
enforcement, public safety and justice system communities throughout Illinois with
national and local experts presenting on innovative approaches for reducing serious
crimes and high levels of gun violence. He added that the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation and the Joyce Foundation were providing financial support for the

7

 conference and that Board Members were invited to attend. With no response to his call
for further discussion, he thanked everyone and turned the meeting over to Randy Kurtz,
ICJIA Deputy Director, for an ICJIA Financial Report.
VIII. ICJIA Financial Report
Deputy Director Kurtz began by stating that when he came to the Authority six months
ago, his goal was to deliver to the Board and other constituencies a schematic and
comprehensive yet concise view of the financial picture of the agency, which he said is
challenging because there are many different funding streams and different ways that
money is expended. He said that he would be discussing cash-on-cash expenditures for
fiscal year 2015, ending June 30, noting the amount of $57 million for that period. He
explained of that amount, $48 million went to grantees and about $8 million to operate
the Authority.
He further explained that 62 percent of the grant money expended was distributed from
the federal Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), and
Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) funding sources. He noted that Authority operations are
funded through both state budget and federal administrative money, and detailed the
ratios. He then discussed expenditures with the bulk of the cost payroll and associated
employee benefits, and outlined Senate Bill 2042 and what it allows to be covered.
Next, he previewed a new funding streams and grant making layout project developed in
direct response to Board Member Patrick Delfino’s question about this information,
which he said would be unveiled at next week’s Strategic Opportunities Committee
Meeting. He went to say that a great deal of work has been devoted to its creation by
staff members Jude Lemrow, Ieva Massengill, and Dr. Megan Alderden.
He outlined the information that will be on a link and PDF sent in advance of the
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting and interactive on the Authority’s website.
He asked that after reviewing it, comments be made as to what is included and not
included, stating that as Deputy Director and Chief Financial Officer, financial
transparency is absolutely critical. In closing he said that it is very important that
participants in the criminal justice system can ascertain how their part is funded and that
this project will not only provide that data, but will be used to drive and fund criminal
justice system policy and improvements. With no further discussion, Chair Robb thanked
Deputy Director Kurtz and moved on to the next agenda item, Committee Reports.
IX. Committee Reports
Chair Robb said the Chairs of two active Authority Committees would give reports with
the first by Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora. Ms. Hora reviewed the August 6,
Budget Committee Meeting, noting that mostly it was spent providing a framework for
the following: how the Budget Committee will be making decisions in the future, the
basis for those decisions and the kind of information that will be presented. She discussed
subjects covered including the new state law involving state grants, which will require

8

 more use of Requests for Applications (RFAs) and Requests for Proposals (RFPs) and
more transparency with some recording requirements.
She said it was noted in discussion that the role of the Budget Committee has become
more of a grants review Committee examining the individual grants themselves as
opposed to a policymaking body in deciding whether or not the grants comply or conform
with the Authority’s grant making principles and priorities. She continued to say that
also discussed was moving away from that approach and becoming more focused on
whether the grants meet the Authority’s policy and strategic opportunities that will
emerge from the Strategic Opportunities Committee.
Ms. Hora went on to state that other areas covered included how staff make award
recommendations, how requests are reviewed and agreements drafted, along with grant
recovery efforts that staff make to recover lapsed or misspent funds. In addition, she
reported that also reviewed was the format for staff recommendations to assure that the
Budget Committee receives all the information needed to make decision in these areas.
In closing, Ms. Hora said that one item of business was conducted with the Budget
Committee approving $40,000 to support the conference mentioned earlier featuring
Peoria’s successful “Don’t Shoot” focused deterrence program. She said she was
looking forward to the next Budget Committee Meeting when other recommendations
based on staff input that was outlined would be considered.
Chair Robb thanked Ms. Hora and clarified that the Budget Committee meeting discussed
was more of an orientation, and that an orientation for all new Board members was being
developed. She said she found the Budget Committee orientation helpful and thought
that even long-term Board members benefitted from it, encouraging all Board Members,
old and new, to attend the new Board Members orientation when it is scheduled.
Executive Director Maki followed saying that it may be a webcast, but that it is important
for all new Board Members to understand the Authority financially and programmatically
and the presentation will be the most accessible and transparent toward that end.
Chair Robb then called on Ms. Paula Wolff for a report on the meeting of the Strategic
Opportunities Committee, which she chairs. Ms. Wolff started by thanking Chair Robb
and Executive Director Maki for the assignment afforded to the Strategic Opportunities
Committee and invited all Board Members to undertake the Committee’s charge to
achieve the goals of the Authority, facilitating the most effective criminal justice system
possible in Illinois. She reported that the meeting was very much like the Budget
Committee’s format discussing basics, focusing on the Authority’s three elements:
research, grant making, and information and data collection.
Ms. Wolff continued to say that minutes and other materials presented at the meeting
would be made available to everyone, allowing those who were unable to attend to be
kept apprised and urged all Board Members to make it a regular practice to attend future
Strategic Opportunities Committee meetings. She then covered what was addressed
including the charge to the Committee, which was basically accepted; principles that

9

 underlie the Committee’s work; grant making principles; and federal government
guidelines governing how federal grants are spent.
Ms. Wolff went on to note that also discussed was the additional money that is expected
from the federal Victims of Crimes Act (VOCA) program and how the Committee could
develop a framework to make the best use of those funds in terms of meeting the goals
of the Authority overall. In addition, she reported that there were discussions as to how
past decisions have been made about grants, what future decisions would be made and
how that would actually happen. She then announced that the Strategic Opportunities
Committee plans to meet monthly, with the next meeting September, 16, 9:30 a.m., and
invited everyone to attend.
In closing, Ms. Wolff stated that everything the Committee recommends will come to the
full Authority Board for review and approval and that the Committee plans to have
recommendations as to its charge before the end of the calendar year. She again said how
pleased she is with the Committee, with Chair Robb thanking Ms. Wolff. At that point,
Executive Director Maki encouraged all Board Members to attend all Budget Committee
and Strategic Opportunities Committee meetings, whether a Member or not, explaining
that when they attend they become a Member of the committee as a whole.
He then announced the next agenda item, presentations on crime control and deterrence
in Illinois, featuring the program in Peoria and its evaluation by the Authority mentioned
earlier. He said that the intention is to disseminate the results of the evaluation
throughout the state, which he felt represents the Authority at its best: listening to local
law enforcement and local stakeholders, trying to ascertain what they are doing and what
resources the Authority can provide to help them be the most effective. He then called on
Dr. Megan Alderden, Associate Director of the Authority’s Research and Analysis Unit
to give a brief framework for understanding how deterrence currently works in Illinois.
X. Presentations & Discussion
The State of Crime Control in Illinois: Dr. Megan Alderden, Associate Director, ICJIA
Research and Analysis Unit
Dr. Alderden started by covering how deterrence works in the criminal justice system and
currently in Illinois. She pointed out that there are some limits in terms of data, therefore
some she was using are national level but are similar regardless of the source. She
continued to say that using such information can actually identify how to frame or
improve responses to a crime problem and specifically use a more targeted strategy than
the blanket approach that is currently very typical in the criminal justice system.
She went on to explain that there are two types of deterrence practiced: general
deterrence, basically trying to prevent people from committing crimes; and specific
deterrence, aimed at someone who actually already has committed the crime, to help
change that behavior. She continued to explain the three mechanisms by which the
deterrence methods are undertaken: certainty of punishment or some type of response;

10

 swiftness or how quickly the response happens; and the severity or strength of the
punishment provided.
In the ensuing discussion, Dr. Alderden gave statistics for violent and property offenses
committed, those reported to police, arrests by police and arrests resulting in conviction.
Also discussed was the median number of days between arrest and sentencing, the Illinois
adult population under correctional supervision, and the average length of stay of felons
exiting the Illinois Department of Corrections by class. She also talked about how many
crimes go unreported, with even fewer resulting in arrest and conviction; the processing
of cases taking time; and increased punishment with more people in contact with the
system longer, with only modest public safety improvements.
Various comments were made in response to Dr. Alderden’s presentation, including
President Preckwinkle’s pointing out that the United States has five percent of the
world’s population and 25 percent of the people in the world who are in jail or prison.
Dr. Alderden and others then discussed the negative aspects of this situation, with Dr.
Alderden noting how focused deterrence can help correct it by increasing certainty and
swiftness of punishment; using the right amount of punishment; including community
input; increasing perceptions of legitimacy; and producing dramatic impact without
significant dollar increases.
Don’t Shoot: Focused Deterrence in Peoria: Tate Chambers, Assistant U.S. Attorney for
the Central District
At that point, Chair Robb thanked Dr. Alderden, with Executive Director John Maki
introducing Tate Chambers, Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Central District to describe
the “Don’t Shoot: Focused Deterrence Program” in Peoria. After thanking the Board for
the opportunity to discuss the program, Assistant U.S. Attorney Chambers gave
background on how it developed in Peoria.
He mentioned being called to work at the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington,
D.C., from his position in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Peoria in 2007 to learn the
Department’s antigun violence program. He said that a team was formed representing all
the shareholders from the Department, and all the federal agencies that had a role in gun
violence along with federal firearm prosecutors from around the country.
He continued to explain that the team talked to crime researchers, judges, prosecutors,
victims and community representatives nationwide and kept hearing about a successful
drop in violent crime with less people being put in prison in High Point, North Carolina
that was continuing in that direction for six to seven years. He said the team became
aware that the program was based on focused deterrence, developed by David Kennedy
the author of the book, “Don’t Shoot.”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Chambers noted that what was especially impressive to learn
about this program in High Point, was that through it, the community, especially
distressed parts of the community, had bonded with law enforcement, developed trust in

11

 each other, and were listening to each other. He then outlined how the program in Peoria
started in 2011 after an eight-year old boy was shot and killed in his bed by a drive-by
shooter.
He related steps that were taken to educate the community, starting with the Peoria Public
Library featuring David Kennedy’s “Don’t Shoot” book for its yearly reading event and
also promoting it for book clubs and discussions all over the city, including radio shows,
David Kennedy appearing at public forums, a public awareness program with billboards,
bus signs, T-shirts, websites and appearances by law enforcement and others before
community organizations and schools. He talked about other activities undertaken to
promote the program, including communicating with gang members.
He gave further details about additional facets of how the “Don’t Shoot” program started
and continues to work successfully in Peoria, including the Police Chief totally
reorganizing his department, disbanding his narcotics and street crime units and creating
a target offender unit designed to support “Don’t Shoot.” He reiterated that the “Don’t
Shoot” program is working in Peoria. In closing, U.S. Attorney Chambers thanked
everyone and recounted additional positive impact of the focused deterrence and David
Kennedy’s “Don’t Shoot” approach. He related how in North Carolina the program
helped bring together communities that had been racially apart for hundreds of years.
Executive Director Maki thanked Assistant U.S. Attorney Chambers. In the discussion
that followed, subjects included how successful outcomes of the program are tracked,
with the biggest being that offenders who participate do not re-offend. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Chambers went on to say there are huge success stories about education and
bringing families back together, rather than continuing to take young men out of
communities with negative consequences. Also covered was the call-in aspect of the
focused deterrence program which requires those on probation or parole to participate
and helps them with areas such as social services and education opportunities and has
been found to be very beneficial.
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz then raised the issue of efforts to replicate successful initiatives
throughout the state such as the Peoria “Don’t Shoot” Program seem to be missing.
Executive Director Maki responded that the intention of the upcoming Conference on
focused deterrence and the success of the Peoria “Don’t Shoot” program was precisely to
bring attention to this deficiency and promote collaboration among stakeholders
statewide. Also, in response to comments about the need for funds to support such
programs, he said that subject would be addressed at the conference as well.
XI. Adjourn
Chair Robb then thanked everyone for attending the meeting and for their participation.
With several Board Members having left earlier, there was not a quorum at that point;
therefore, Chair Robb adjourned the meeting without a motion for adoption.

12

 