ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
February 28, 2018, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Call to Order and Roll Call
ICJIA Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb called the meeting to order at 10:05 a.m. General
Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Jim O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
Schmitz
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean County Public Defender Carla Barnes
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh

Present Telephone
X
X
X

Absent

X
X
X
X
Present Telephone

X
Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X

 2/28/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director Beverly Walker

X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Rebecca Janowitz, Cook County Justice Advisory Council
Rick Krause, Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis
Chief Barbara West, Chicago Police Department
Other ICJIA staff members and guests.
1. Minutes of the December 13, 2017, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Campanelli moved to approve the minutes of the December 13, 2017,
Budget Committee Meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Executive Director’s Remarks
Executive Director Maki discussed recent media attention focused on ICJIA regarding a
grant the Kane County State’s Attorney’s Office (SAO) applied for but did not receive.
He said ICJIA staff released a notice of funding opportunity for the grant and conducted a
competitive grant awarding process compliant with the Grant Accountability and
Transparency Act (GATA), the results of which did not produce a recommendation to
fund the Kane County SAO’s proposal. Executive Director Maki noted ICJIA policy of
not commenting on unsuccessful grant applications. ICJIA has been forthcoming and
transparent regarding the shift in recent years from a practice of funding legacy programs
to the adoption of a competitive process for awarding grant funds, but some organizations
that have been accustomed to the older legacy system have not come to fully understand
the new GATA environment, he said. He added that in his capacity as executive director,
he does not become personally involved in determining which applicant receives funding;
ICJIA staff makes those determinations in accordance with GATA and other established
policies and procedures. Executive Director Maki said the Kane County SAO appealed

 2/28/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

the rejection of its application, but the appeal was denied because ICJIA adhered to
GATA requirements and guidelines. Further discussions between ICJIA and the Kane
County SAO are anticipated and it is reasonable to assume that in the future similar
situations might arise regarding other rejected applications.
2. SFY18 Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal Fund
Associate Director Givens referred to a memo dated February 28, 2018, regarding the
SFY18 Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal (PPDD) Fund. He said that the Illinois
General Assembly passed Public Act 097-0545, which established the PPDD Fund. The
Act states, “Monies in the Fund shall be used for grants by the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority to local law enforcement agencies for the purpose of facilitating
the collection, transportation, and incineration of pharmaceuticals from residential
sources that are collected and transported by law enforcement agencies.” ICJIA asked
the Illinois Sheriff’s Association (ISA) to consider procuring approximately 70 drug
disposal kits/lock boxes with grant funding on behalf of its agencies. Staff recommends
designating $150,000 in SFY18 PPDD funds to the ISA to support this effort.
Motion: Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to approve the recommended designation. Ms. Kramer
seconded the motion.
Executive Director Maki said the PPDD program was a mandate and that developing it
has consumed considerable staff time.
Associate Director Givens said the PPDD program needed to be coordinated with the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency to ensure regulated materials are properly
disposed.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
3. FFY17 Violence Against Women Act Plan Introduction
Associate Director Givens referred to a memo dated February 28, 2018, regarding the
FFY17 Violence Against Women Act Plan Introduction. He said the FFY17 VAWA
award to Illinois is $5,160,091 with an expiration of June 30, 2019. Staff recommended
designating the award’s formula service provider funds to the Illinois Coalition Against
Domestic Violence (ICADV) and Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA) in
equal amounts of $696,613.
Motion: Ms. Campanelli moved to approve the recommended designations. Ms. Kramer
seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 2/28/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

4. FFY15 and FFY16 Victims of Crime Act Plan Adjustments
Associate Director Givens referred to a memo dated February 28, 2018, regarding FFY15
and FFY16 Victims of Crime Act Plan Adjustments.
1. Designation Reductions
Associate Director Givens called attention to a chart describing $279,908 in FFY15 and
FFY16 funds recently returned to ICJIA. He said staff recommended reducing the
original designations by their respective returned amounts and making those funds
available for other programming.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended designation reductions. Ms.
Campanelli seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Ms. Kramer.
2. Recommended Designations
A. Transitional Housing
Associate Director Givens called attention to a chart describing $1,070,954 in FFY15
funds recommended for designation to transitional housing programs. He said the funds
would allow the programs to operate until August 31, 2018.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended designations. Ms. VollenKatz seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. Lead Entities
Associate Director Givens said that staff recommended the following designations of
FFY16 funds to Lead Entities:
Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence (ICADV): $17,300,000
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA): $16,300,000
Children’s Advocacy Centers of Illinois (CACI): $7,100,000
Motion: Ms. Barnes moved to approve the recommended designations. Ms. Dunne
seconded the motion.
Executive Director Maki said that ICJIA has historically used these Lead Entities as passthrough agencies for grant funding. They provide subject-matter expertise that is beyond
the scope of ICJIA’s work, he said.

 2/28/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

ICJIA Program Manager Ron Reichgelt said staff works with the Lead Entities to
structure their policies and procedures to reflect those of ICJIA. Staff also reviews their
requests for proposals and approves funding recommendations, he said. ICJIA also serves
as a final tier of appeal in the event that an applicant to a Lead Entity request for
proposals is denied funding, he said.
Further discussion produced the proposal of the creation of a statewide interactive victim
services resource list that identifies which programs provide what services and in what
locations.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
C. Trauma Recovery Centers
Associate Director Givens said Trauma Recovery Center (TRC) hospital-based model
programs support comprehensive direct services for historically underserved or
marginalized victims of violent crime and their families through implementation of a
TRC. This model borrows greatly from the University of California-San Francisco’s TRC
model, he said. Staff recommended two designations of $1,100,000 in FFY16 funds; one
to Advocate Christ Medical Center and one to OSF Health Care System, dba St. Francis
Medical Center to develop and implement the TRC program for 15 months. He said three
months will be intended for development of mandatory protocols and 12 months of direct
services would then be supported.
Executive Director Maki said TRC pilot programs intended to address underserved
victims.
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai said staff have received technical
assistance from the founder of the TRC model, and technical assistance will also be
provided to the grantees.
General Counsel Weis said the funding at this point is intended to set up and establish the
pilot programs. Even though the two programs are in different settings with different
populations, the numbers of persons entering these programs at their respective locations
will be very similar, as both programs will have the same numbers of staff.
Executive Director Maki said working with hospitals has presented unique challenges
because they are structured very differently than the victim service agencies or
government agencies.
Motion: Ms. Barnes moved to approve the recommended designations. Ms. Dunne
seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 2/28/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

5. Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA)
Associate Director Givens referred to a memo dated February 28, 2018, regarding Sex
Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA) designations. At the September 28,
2017, Budget Committee meeting, the committee approved a notice of funding
opportunity for SORNA penalty funds to purchase equipment that would allow electronic
submission of sex offender documents to Illinois State Police. He called attention to a
chart describing $203,001 in FFY16 funds recommended for the purchase of scanning
and storage equipment to facilitate electronic transmission of sex offender documentation
between local registration agencies and ISP and acquisition of Livescan stations that
capture and transmit sex offender palm prints.
Associate Director Givens also called attention to a chart describing recommended
designations of FFY16 pending fund availability and FFY17 funds pending approval
from the U.S. Department of Justice.
ICJIA Program Manager Shai Hoffman said that colleges and universities that have their
own police departments and sworn officers were eligible to receive funds. He said that 13
of 19 grant applicants were recommended and in most cases the funds would be used to
replace equipment that is between five and 15 years old. He said in three cases, grantees
would be making initial equipment purchases.
Mr. O’Grady said that he was surprised to not see more grants to entities downstate,
where many small agencies are still processing information on paper.
Executive Director Maki said that there are many challenges in reaching out to smaller
under-funded agencies that lack grant-writing ability and/or capacity. ICJIA disseminates
information about funding opportunities to various statewide associations and in other
ways, but staff is open to suggestions about ways to share information.
General Counsel Weis said that many smaller entities do not have staff who are dedicated
to grant writing and that is a structural issue.
A discussion ensued around outreach on funding opportunities and problems agencies
have in responding to such opportunities. Executive Director Maki said that the issues
might be better addressed by the Strategic Opportunities Committee.
Motion: Ms. Barnes moved to approve the recommended designations. Ms. Vollen-Katz
seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Public Comment
None.

 2/28/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 7

Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Dunne seconded the motion
and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:20
a.m.

 