ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

October 5, 2018

Re:

October 18, 2018, Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting Overview

This memo provides an overview of the Coordinating Council Advisory Committee (CCAC) meeting on
Thursday, October 11, from 1:00-3:00 p.m. at ICJIA’s office at 300 West Adams, Chicago, Suite 200.
The meeting will begin with a member update, with each program representative being given the
opportunity to announce any upcoming activities or events of potential interest to other members. Updates
will include a discussion of web pages for Adult Redeploy Illinois (ARI), Family Violence Coordinating
Councils (FVCC), and Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils (CJCC), and Notices of Funding issued by
ARI and VAWA multidisciplinary teams.
Next, Lily Gleicher, ICJIA Research Analyst, will give an overview of her recent review of the literature
on Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils, included with our meeting materials. The review addresses
the history and development of Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils and where research is needed
regarding CJCC effectiveness.
This presentation will lead into a discussion about ways to incorporate best practices for collaborative
bodies like CJCCs into Notices of Funding for ICJIA programs. We will also discuss current or planned
efforts to evaluate processes and outcomes of collaborative programs.

We look forward to your participation.
John Maki
Executive Director,
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Meeting
Thursday, October 18, 2018
1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois

AGENDA

I.
II.

Call To Order and Roll Call
Approval of Coordinating Council Advisory Committee Minutes

III.

Member updates

IV.

Presentation on research article on Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils

V.

Discussion on incorporating research in coordinating council programing

VI.
VII.
VIII.

New Business
Public Comment
Adjourn

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent state and federal laws
upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should contact by telephone or
letter John Klaer, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150, (312) 793-8946.
TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 July 19, 2018

COLLABORATION IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE: A
REVIEW OF THE LITERATURE ON CRIMINAL
JUSTICE COORDINATING COUNCILS

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
CENTER FOR JUSTICE RESEARCH AND EVALUATION

LILY GLEICHER, RESEARCH ANALYST
JESSICA REICHERT, SENIOR RESEARCH ANALYST
CHRISTINE HEAD, RESEARCH INTERN

Abstract: The criminal justice system features multiple independent agencies working
parallel to each other. Criminal justice coordinating councils (CJCCs) foster agency
collaboration to better address county criminal justice issues. This article describes
CJCCs and examines the limited available research on them.

 Introduction
Most states, including Illinois, operate criminal justice systems at the county level and with little
coordination between them.1 Illinois’ 102 counties and 24 judicial circuits have unique issues
and needs with varying resources and support. Each department of the criminal justice system,
from police to parole, is individually funded with impact and success defined within the narrow
scope of each organization.2 Criminal justice coordinating councils (CJCCs) offer a way for
these agencies to collaboratively address county criminal justice issues.3 Much of the
quantitative and qualitative research on coordinating council efficacy and efficiency comes from
studies on domestic violence and family violence coordinating councils.
The Illinois State Commission on Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform recommended the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) establish county-based CJCCs.1 To help
jurisdictions implement CJCCs,
ICJIA partnered with the National
Criminal Justice Reform Project
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM IS
from the National Governors
Association; Loyola University’s
COMPRISED OF VARIOUS
Center on Criminal Justice Research,
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES AND
Policy and Practice; and the National
Criminal Justice Association to offer
ENTITIES THAT HAVE TRADITIONALLY
technical support, data analysis, and
OPERATED IN A “SILO” FASHION—
strategic planning assistance.4 In
2017, ICJIA awarded five
FOCUSING PREDOMINANTLY ON THEIR
counties—Lake, McHenry, McLean,
INDIVIDUAL GOALS, OBJECTIVES, AND
Winnebago, and St. Clair counties
ACTIVITIES.
technical assistance grants to
establish CJCCs.
Source: Nugent-Borakove & Beeman, 2013 5

CJCC Overview
CJCCs are committees that facilitate cross-agency collaboration and information exchange
within the criminal justice system.6 CJCCs assist counties in creating and sustaining
collaboration among a variety of criminal justice agencies and stakeholders while gaining a more
thorough understanding of criminal justice issues. Additionally, CJCCs can guide better use of
resources, reduce costs of the criminal justice system, and devise more effective and sustainable
criminal justice initiatives and programs.7 CJCCs may operate to address general criminal justice
issues or target specific criminal justice issues, including domestic violence, intimate partner
violence, family violence, and juvenile justice.8
The scope of CJCCs is broad and may vary based on legislative and internal mandates. CJCCs
feature committee membership and typically focus on policy development, resource allocation,
and problem solving complex social issues through coordinated efforts.9 Councils achieve this
through:
1

See https://bit.ly/2LicKBF

1

 •
•
•
•

Data collection and analysis of criminal justice operations.
Identification of the most pervasive problems.
Collaboration toward solutions.
Development of budget strategies.10

Research on 41 Family Violence Coordinating
Councils, which are similar in structure to CJCCS
but focus on the issue of family violence, found
their members participated in the following
activities:
•
Information sharing
•
Discussing issues
•
Identifying issues of system’s response
•
Promoting public/community education
•
Supporting and training key stakeholders
in the community response
•
Lobbying non-member stakeholders.

The country’s first CJCC formed in
the 1930s in Los Angeles, Calif., to
address a perceived juvenile “crime
wave.”11 CJCCs continued to develop
in the United States in the late 1960s
and early 1970s as state and local
governments collaborated on how
federal Law Enforcement Assistance
Administration funding would be
spent. Today, while the United States
is comprised of more than 3,000
counties, fewer than 100 CJCCs exist
in a capacity outside of collaborating
as a necessary condition of awarded
federal or state grant funding.12

Source: Javdani & Allen, 2011 13

Membership & Staff
CJCC membership varies based on county size, though most generally consist of elected and/or
appointed local justice agency directors, others with a vested interest in local government, and
community members. These may include substance use and mental health treatment providers;
victim’s advocates; those offering housing resources; workforce training or educational
assistance; veteran’s advocates; members of faith-based groups; offender rights group
representatives; and former offenders.14 To be effective, CJCCs need consistent engagement
from its members. Since many CJCCs form in response to an ad hoc need, after the urgency of a
problem wanes, some members may become less engaged.15 CJCCs include an executive
committee and some establish subcommittees to cover special topics or issues that arise.
Generally, CJCCs are housed within county administration offices; a survey of 60 CJCCs in 17
states found 70 percent of CJCC staff were housed in county administration offices.16 Some
CJCCs hire dedicated staff to aid in establishing long-term criminal justice system
coordination.17 These individuals typically report to the county manager. Job duties include
planning meetings; keeping records; grant writing or assisting agencies in applying for grants;
and writing briefs and reports.18 CJCC staff should be skilled in project management, data
analysis, grant management, and other skills based on county needs.19 The Justice Management
2

 Institute’s National Network of Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils offers sample CJCC staff
job descriptions and other CJCC resources.2
Funding
Counties with CJCCs are in a better position to apply for and be awarded grant funding to
address criminal justice issues. 20 Councils that can illustrate collaborative problem-solving may
be more attractive to funding agencies.21 A funding source, such as county or grant funds, can
help solidify agency buy-in and support coordination efforts because resources are available to
help reach set goals. However, in a study of 66 CJCCs in 17 states, 42 percent of CJCCs reported
having no budget.22 A challenge to CJJCs in accomplishing their goals are budgetary/fiscal
issues and internal structure/operational issues.23
Potential Benefits of CJCCs
Collaboration

COLLABORATION IS A MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL
AND WELL-DEFINED RELATIONSHIP ENTERED

CJCCs offer a way for criminal justice
system practitioners and advocates in the
community to collaborate on county
issues. For example, court budgets are
often developed without proper
consideration of how other agencies will
be affected.24 Therefore, limited funds
may not be used to the greatest advantage.
More effective resource allocation, as
well as more cooperative agencies and
more transparency, can help improve
public opinion and trust in the justice
system.25

BY ORGANIZATIONS TO ACHIEVE COMMON
GOALS. THE RELATIONSHIP INCLUDES A
COMMITMENT TO:

• A DEFINITION OF MUTUAL RELATIONSHIPS
AND GOALS;

• A JOINTLY DEVELOPED STRUCTURE AND
SHARED RESPONSIBILITY;

•

MUTUAL AUTHORITY AND
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR SUCCESS; AND

• SHARING OF RESOURCES AND REWARDS.
Source: Mattessich & Monsey, 1992 26

Problem-Solving
Problem-solving justice features criminal justice systems working on understanding their local
criminal justice issues to promote the most effective prevention and intervention on all types of
crimes and offenders.27 Principles of problem-solving justice include enhanced information to
improve justice decision-making, community engagement, collaboration, individualized justice,
and offender accountability. Problem-solving justice addresses crime but also collectively
attempts to prevent crime, improve public confidence in justice, and reduce recidivism. For
2

See https://bit.ly/2zW3AXp

3

 example, the Evidence-Based Policing Matrix produced by the George Mason University Center
for Evidence-Based Crime Policy3 suggests collaborative, problem-solving justice initiatives are
more likely to be successful than those that are not collaborative. 28 CJCCs promote problemsolving justice in which criminal justice system players to respond more creatively to local
crime.29
System-Change
Agency coordination through CJCCS can lead to system-wide impact, such as how resources are
allocated and initiatives developed. 30 Resource scarcity makes it necessary for organizations in
in the social, governmental, and business sectors to work together. In addition, CJCCs meet to
understand current evidence-based practices in their local criminal justice system, as well as
support the implementation of additional practices.
Cost-Savings
CJCC stakeholders work across agencies and jurisdiction to find the drivers of criminal justice
cost and investigate cost-effective alternatives.31 Given the size of local justice agencies, CJCCs
can create long-term cost saving plan that compensates for the initial high investment of
members’ time for coordination and set-up.32

During initial stages of formation, CJCCs should ask the
following questions to aid in planning.
•

•

•

Where are we now? CJCCs assess current
policies, practices, and programs and how they
have changed over time.
Where do we want to be in the future? CJCCs
creates a vision of success for the criminal
justice system.
How do we get from here to there? CJCCs plan
and implement strategies for change.

Source: McGarry & Ney, 2006 33

Best Practices of CJCCs
Based on discussions with criminal justice coordinating council chairs and directors, Wickman
and colleagues identified key components of effective and long-lasting CJCCs.34 These
components include:

3

See http://cebcp.org/

4

 •
•

•
•
•

•
•

Clearly stated mission and role to increase the CJCC’s legitimacy and enable the CJCC
to address criminal justice system data collection, analysis, and planning.
A council structure, particularly as it relates to the CJCC’s membership, general
governmental relationship, and policies and procedures for council operations and
organization. This includes a holistic, systemic approach to membership
(elected/appointed officials, community members, and other criminal justice agency
representatives and leaders), with a close, yet independent, link to county or city
government.
Quality staff that are trained, experienced, and have appropriate political, managerial,
and administrative skills to support planning and policy development.35
Data sharing, collection, and analysis on system operations to help fully assess systemwide performance.
Promotion of evidence-based practices into ongoing system-wide operations, including
quality assurance measures for implementation and sustainability. Most challenging for
CJCCs is identifying evidence-based practices and current programs that may need
revising, taking steps to make these revisions or seek alternatives, and start systematic
action planning.
Plans for system operations in case of an emergency such as floods, hurricanes,
tornadoes, blizzards, riots, flu pandemics, and bomb threats.
Fair budget and resource appropriation made collectively in a neutral and credible
manner to obtain system improvement goals.36

The following features foster an environment that helps initiate and sustain change:37
•
•
•
•
•

Sharing the power of decision-making within the CJCC.38
Flexibility in determining the scope of CJCC work.39
Providing equal distribution of rewards and benefits among members.40
Incorporating highly skilled members.41
Emphasizing quality, rather than quantity, of efforts.42
Measuring Performance

Little research exists on how CJCCs affect criminal justice outcomes.43 Research is needed to
examine the impact of collaboration on the criminal justice system. What limited research that
does exist has examined how CJCCs operate and components of effective CJCCs.44 Researchers
identified several studies, all focusing on coordinating councils that handle one criminal justice
issue, either domestic violence or family violence.45 CJCC members and staff, potentially in
collaboration with a university or government researcher, can conduct needs assessments,
establish criterion for success, and evaluate processes, outcomes, and cost-benefits.46 CJCCs
should gauge performance based on quantifiable measures, such as the number of grant
applications submitted or awarded, as well as system intervention outcomes and criminal justice
system cost savings.47 Public opinion also should be considered in evaluating success.48
CJCCs are encouraged to consider data systems integration to expedite information exchange on
criminal justice clients and allow data collection that would guide CJCC initiatives. Also, having
data collected uniformly across the system means that programs can be evaluated with more
5

 certainty and complexity.49 However, these data systems can be expensive, especially initially.
For cash strapped jurisdictions, finding the capital to replace older information system can be
prohibitive.
Conclusion
As the United States General Accounting Office noted,
The criminal justice process—from arrest through correctional supervision —in any
jurisdiction is generally complex and typically involves a number of participants
including police, prosecutors, defense attorneys, courts, and corrections agencies.
Because of the large number of agencies involved, coordination among agencies is
necessary for the process to function as efficiently as possible within the requirements of
due process. That is, all involved agencies need to work together to ensure proper and
efficient system operations, identify any problems that emerge, and decide how best to
balance competing interests in resolving these problems.50
To prevent and solve local crime problems and justice issues, CJCCs bring together the different
players in the criminal justice system and the community. While CJCCS can offer better
coordination and problem-solving approaches, commitment and investment is needed from its
members. Activities such as agenda setting, establishing staff, and data collection may take time
and money.
Administrators should measure program activities toward achieving their set goals, as well as
level of collaboration and sustainability.51 Little is known about outcomes of CJCCs, so more
rigorous research is needed. Research on effectiveness of CJCCs and the potential impacts on
crime is needed to recognize them as an evidence-based practice.

This project was supported by Grant #16-DJ-BX-0083, awarded to the Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority by the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice
Programs’ Bureau of Justice Assistance. Points of view or opinions contained within
this document are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official
position or policies of the U.S. Department of Justice.
Suggested citation: Gleicher, L., Reichert, J., & Head, C. (2018). Collaboration in criminal
justice: A review of the literature on criminal justice coordinating councils. Chicago, IL: Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority.

1

Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
2
Kania, J., & Kramer, M. (2011). Collective impact (SSIR). Retrieved from
https://ssir.org/articles/entry/collective_impact
6

 3

Also referred to as public safety coordinating committees and criminal justice advisory boards.
Commission on Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform. (2016). Illinois State Commission on
Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform final report. Springfield, IL: State of Illinois. Retrieved
from http://www.icjia.org/cjreform2015/pdf/CJSR_Final_Report_Dec_2016.pdf
5
Nugent-Borakove, M. E. & Beeman, M. (2013). Fostering and sustaining criminal just system
reform: The potential of criminal justice coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice
Management Institute.
6
Cushman, R. C. (2002). Guidelines for developing a criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.
7
Cushman, R. C. (2002). Guidelines for developing a criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.
8
Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
9
Nugent-Borakove, M. E. & Beeman, M. (2013). Fostering and sustaining criminal just system
reform: The potential of criminal justice coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice
Management Institute.
10
Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
11
Appier, J. (2005). “We’re blocking youth’s path to crime”: The Los Angeles coordinating
councils during the great depression, Journal of Urban History, 31(2), 190-218.
12
Center for Effective Public Policy. (2015). Collaborative justice: Who collaborates in criminal
justice? Silver Spring, MD: Author.; Nugent-Borakove, M. E., & Beeman, M. (2013). Fostering
and sustaining criminal justice system reform: The potential of criminal justice coordinating
councils. Arlington, VA. The Justice Management Institute.
13
Javdani, S., & Allen, N. E. (2011). Proximal outcomes matter: A multilevel examination of the
processes by which coordinating councils produce change. American Journal of Community
Psychology, 47, 12-27.
14
Center for Effective Public Policy. (2015). Collaborative justice: Who collaborates in criminal
justice? Silver Spring, MD: Author.
15
Nugent-Borakove, M. E., & Beeman, M. (2013). Fostering and sustaining criminal just system
reform: The potential of criminal justice coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice
Management Institute.
16
Ramsey County Sherriff Office. (2013). Criminal justice coordinating council staffing survey
summary. St. Paul, MN: Author.
17
Jones, M. R. (2012). Guidelines for staffing a local criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.
18
Jones, M. R. (2012). Guidelines for staffing a local criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.
19
Cushman, R. C. (2002). Guidelines for developing a criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.; Jones, M. R.
(2012). Guidelines for staffing a local criminal justice coordinating committee. Washington,
D.C. U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.
4

7

 20

Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
21
Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
22
Ramsey County Sherriff Office. (2013). Criminal justice coordinating council staffing survey
summary. St. Paul, MN: Author.
23
Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
24
Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
25
Cushman, R. C. (2002). Guidelines for developing a criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.
26
Mattessich, P. W., & Monsey, B. R. (1992). Collaboration: What makes it work? A review of
research literature on factors influencing successful collaboration. St Paul, MN: Amerst H.
Wilder Foundation.
27
Wolf, R. W. (2007). Principles of problem-solving justice. New York, NY: Center for Court
Innovation.
28
Coldron, C. (2015). Collaboration and law enforcement–Improving the outcome. Washington,
DC: United States Department of Justice, OJP Diagnostic Center, Data-Driven Justice Solutions.
29
Center for Court Innovation. (n.d.) Problem-solving justice in the united states common
principles. New York, NY: Author. Retrieved from
https://www.courtinnovation.org/sites/default/files/Problem_Solving_Justice_in_the_US.pdf.
30
Kania, J., & Kramer, M. (2011). Collective impact. Stanford Social Innovation Review.
Retrieved from https://ssir.org/articles/entry/collective_impact
31
Lachman, P., Neusteter, S. R., Davies, E. M., & LaVigne, N. G. (2013). The criminal justice
planners toolkit for justice reinvestment at the local level. Washington, DC: The Urban Institute.
32
Beeman, M., & Wickman, A. (2013). The criminal justice coordinating council network miniguide series: Measuring performance of CJCCs. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management
Institute.
33
McGarry, P., & Ney, B. (2006). Getting it right: Collaborative problem solving for criminal
justice. Washington, D.C. U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.
34
Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
35
Cushman, R. C. (2002). Guidelines for developing a criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections
36
Cushman, R. C. (2002). Guidelines for developing a criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections
37
Hage, J., & Aiken, M. (1970). Social change in complex organizations. New York: Random
House.
38
Allen, N. E. (2005). A multi-level analysis of community coordinating councils. American
Journal of Community Psychology, 35(1/2), 49-63.;Nugent-Borakove, M. E., & Beeman, M.
8

 (2013). Fostering and sustaining criminal just system reform: The potential of criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA. The Justice Management Institute
39
Clark, S., Burt, M., Schulte, M. M., & Macguire, K. (1996). Coordinated community
responses to domestic violence in six communities: Beyond the justice system. Washington, DC:
The Urban Institute.
40
Allen, N. E. (2005). A multi-level analysis of community coordinating councils. American
Journal of Community Psychology, 35(1/2), 49-63.
41
Allen, N. E. (2005). A multi-level analysis of community coordinating councils. American
Journal of Community Psychology, 35(1/2), 49-63.
42
Nugent-Borakove, M. E., & Beeman, M. (2013). Fostering and sustaining criminal just system
reform: The potential of criminal justice coordinating councils. Arlington, VA. The Justice
Management Institute
43
Shepard, M. (1999). Evaluating coordinated community responses to domestic violence.
Schituate, Massachusetts: National Electronic Network on Violence Against Women.
44
Allen, N. E. (2005). A multi-level analysis of community coordinating councils. American
Journal of Community Psychology, 35(1/2), 49-63.; Nugent-Borakove, M. E., & Beeman, M.
(2013). Fostering and sustaining criminal justice system reform: The potential of criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA. The Justice Management Institute.
45
Allen, N. E. (2005). A multi-level analysis of community coordinating councils. American
Journal of Community Psychology, 35(1/2), 49-63.; Allen, N. E., Shabnam, J., Anderson, C. J.,
Rana, S., Newman, D., Todd, N., Lehrner, A., Walden, A., Karsebm.,S. M., & Davis, S. (2010).
Coordinating the criminal justice response to intimate partner violence: The effectiveness of
councils in producing systems change. Washington, DC: National Institute of Justice.; Clark, S.,
Burt, M., Schulte, M. M., & Macguire, K. (1996). Coordinated community responses to domestic
violence in six communities: Beyond the justice system. Washington, DC: The Urban Institute.;
Gray, B. (1985). Conditions facilitating interorganizational collaboration. Human Relations, 38
(10), 911-936.; Javdani, S., & Allen, N. E. (2011). Proximal outcomes matter: A multilevel
examination of the processes by which coordinating councils produce change. American Journal
of Community Psychology, 47, 12-27.; Shepard, M. (1999). Evaluating coordinated community
responses to domestic violence. Schituate, Massachusetts: National Electronic Network on
Violence Against Women.
46
Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.; Cushman, R. C.
(2002). Guidelines for developing a criminal justice coordinating committee. Washington, DC:
U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections.
47
Beeman, M., & Wickman, A. (2013). The criminal justice coordinating council network miniguide series: Measuring performance of CJCCs. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management
Institute.
48
Cushman, R. C. (2002). Guidelines for developing a criminal justice coordinating committee.
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, National Institute of Corrections
49
Wickman, A., Mahoney, B., & Nugent-Borakove, M. E. (n.d.). Improving criminal justice
system planning and operations: Challenges for local governments and criminal justice
coordinating councils. Arlington, VA: The Justice Management Institute.
50
United States General Accounting Office. (2001). D.C. criminal justice system: Better
coordination needed among participating agencies. Washington, DC: Author.
9

 51

Guo, C., & Acar, M. (2005). Understanding collaboration among nonprofit organizations:
Combining resource dependency, institutional, and network perspectives. Nonprofit and
Voluntary Sector Quarterly, 34(3), 340-631.

10

 