ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
April 27, 2016, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200 - Large Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) of the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority met on Wednesday, April 27, 2016, at 300 West Adams, Suite
200, Large Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois. SOC Chair Paula Wolff called the
meeting to order at 10:06 a.m.
SOC Member Attendance
Director John Baldwin
Director Patrick Delfino
David R. McNaughton for Superintendent Eddie
Johnson
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Director Michael J. Pelletier
Lanetta Haynes Turner for President Toni
Preckwinkle
Rick Tanksley
Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

Present

Other Authority Members Present
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Sheriff Tom Dart
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Authority Chair
Jennifer Vollen-Katz

Present
X

Telephone
X

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Telephone
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Kevin Givens, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Associate Director
Angie Weis, Authority General Counsel
Robin Murphy, Authority Associate General Counsel
Reshma Desai, Authority Special Projects Program Advisor
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal and State Grants Unit Administrative Assistant

Absent

 Shai Hoffman, Authority Program Supervisor
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Ron Reichgelt, Authority Program Supervisor
Randy Kurtz, Authority Deputy Director
Mary Ann Dyar, Authority Program Director
Linda Taylor, Authority Criminal Justice Specialist
Rebecca Janowitz, Cook County Justice Advisory Council
Other Authority staff members and guests
Director Maki began the meeting by introducing the new Authority Chief of Staff and
General Counsel Angie Weis. Ms. Weis then took role and stated that there was not a
quorum.
Framing Our Work
Authority Executive Director Maki began to a PowerPoint presentation describing the
Authority’s Federal and State Grants Unit’s policies and procedures. He said that
adherence to these policies and procedures, which are well grounded in the Authority’s
governing rules and which will evolve to accommodate new initiatives such as the Grant
Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA), is critical to protecting the work of the
Authority and its grantees.
Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt, referring to a PowerPoint slide, entitled “Audit of
California VOCA,” said that the Authority’s Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) federal
awards will be in excess of $75 million for FFY15 and FFY16. He described a recent
federal audit of California’s VOCA programming and said that the Authority can expect
an audit by the federal government of its VOCA programming and spending in the near
future. He said that the California audit exposed issues relating to supplanting of state
victim service funds with VOCA funds and conflicts of interest concerning advisory
committees. He said that the Authority’s policies and procedures are designed to
safeguard against these issues.
Authority Associate Director Kevin Givens addressed a PowerPoint slide describing the
purpose and impact of GATA.
Director Maki, referring to a PowerPoint slide, entitled “HR 888 Audit: Lessons
Learned,” said that the audit results highlighted the importance of the Authority’s
policies and procedures and why it matters that they are crafted and followed in a fashion
that ultimately protects the Authority’s work.
Authority Associate General Counsel Robin Murphy, also referring to the PowerPoint
slide entitled “HR 888 Audit: Lessons Learned,” said that the audit focused on three state-

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
April 27, 2016
Page 2

 funded programs: the Illinois Community Violence Prevention Program, the After School
Program, and the Chicago Area Project. He described the causes and program
deficiencies and shared steps that the Authority has undertaken to ensure the issues that
prompted the audit are never repeated. He said that efforts were underway to recover
roughly $5.1 million in questionably spent funds from about 90 agencies and that
approximately $3.6 million has been recovered to date.
Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair Paula Wolff suggested creating an Authority
Audit Committee to address audit-related issues throughout all grant-making processes.
Authority Special Projects Advisor Reshma Desai referred to a PowerPoint slide, entitled
“IL Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime Request for Proposals & Guiding Principles.”
She described the purpose, eligibility, and overall goal of the process. Discussed was the
role public defenders could play in the program given that they were not included in the
list of multidisciplinary Team members required as part of the request for proposals.
All PowerPoint slides referenced are included in the minutes as Attachment A.
Discussion of the FFY16 Strategic Opportunities Committee Action Steps
Director Maki, referring to a PowerPoint slide, entitled “Committee Action Steps:
FFY16,” described three items that he wanted the Authority Board to accomplish by the
end of the federal fiscal year. They included:
1. Develop particular goals and objectives for the Authority’s use of researchinformed RFPs for all of its federal block grants, informed by the 2014 Illinois
Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA).
2. Create criteria for how the Authority will define and assess Byrne Justice
Assistance Grants (JAG) programs that deliver a statewide benefit.
3. Explore whether it should establish percentages of Byrne JAG funding that should
be set aside for particular program areas.
Director Maki, referring to Item #3, said that it would be important to prioritize the seven
JAG Purpose Areas and consider the possibility of assigning funding percentages to
particular program areas.
JAG Program Supervisor Greg Stevens delivered a brief history of the Authority’s use of
JAG funds and programming. He said that over the years, fewer RFPs had been released
for JAG programming. As a result, JAG funds have been used to maintain existing
programs rather than support innovative new programs.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
April 27, 2016
Page 3

 Director Maki said that his goal was to use ongoing strategic planning process to make
RFP-based grant-making a central focus of Authority JAG administration by 2019.
Director Delfino said that while the Authority develops priorities for spending JAG
funds, it must also consider the effects of targeted spending on the overall balance of the
criminal justice system; for example, the balance would be upset if public defenders
received support, but not prosecutors or law enforcement.
Committee Chair Wolff asked if there was Committee consensus on three action steps.
She summarized them as follows:
1) Use RFPS are much as possible.
2) Define statewide benefit and apply as a standard for Authority work.
3) Prioritize purpose areas and agree on what level of specificity and detail is appropriate
at the Committee level to set policy direction for this process.
Hearing no objections, Chair Wolff asked the staff to develop a set of more detailed
recommendations with measureable benchmarks for all three action steps.
Committee member Vollen-Katz suggested that the Board be provided with tools,
perhaps a checklist, to ensure that any decisions relate back to the Guiding Principles.
Director Maki agreed that the goal is for all grants to be tied back to the Guiding
Principles.

March 29, 2016, Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
With a quorum established, Committee Chair Wolff brought the March meeting minutes
to everyone’s attention. Ms. Hora requested a correction (corrected text in italics below):
On Page 5, the first paragraph should read: “…funds should be used for core
victim services.”
Motion: Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to approve the minutes of the March 29, 2016, SOC
meeting, as corrected. Ms. Hora seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice
vote.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
April 27, 2016
Page 4

 Research and Analysis Unit FY16 Goals
Authority Research and Analysis Unit Associate Director Dr. Megan Alderden delivered
a PowerPoint presentation, entitled “Research and Analysis Unit: Research Priorities.”
She addressed slides describing:
•
•
•

The Authority’s high-level performance metrics.
Research & Analysis Unit structure
The unit’s 2016 Priorities

6. Other Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to adjourn the meeting. Director Pelletier seconded the motion
and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 12:03
p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting
April 27, 2016
Page 5

 