ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
May 25, 2017, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Call to Order and Roll Call
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb served as Budget Committee Chair and called the
meeting to order at 10:07 a.m. Deputy General Counsel Robin Murphy called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Illinois State Police Director Leo Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie
Johnson
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle

Present Telephone
X

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
Present Telephone
X

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 2

Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director George H. Sheldon.
Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X
X
X
X

Chair Robb appointed Ms. Vollen-Katz and Mr. Baldwin to the Budget Committee for
the duration of the meeting for the purpose of attaining quorum.
Also in attendance were:
Megan Alderden, Authority Research and Analysis Unit Associate Director
Kevin Givens, Authority Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director
Jennifer Greene, representing Life Span
Shai Hoffman, Authority Program Supervisor
Susan Johnson, representing Chicago Survivors
Rick Krause, representing the Illinois Department of Corrections
Jude Lemrow, Authority Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant
John Maki, Authority Executive Director
Ron Reichgelt, Authority Program Supervisor
Greg Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor
Robin Murphy, Authority Deputy General Counsel
Other Authority staff members and guests
Minutes of the February 24, 2017, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the minutes of the February 24, 2017, Budget
Committee Meeting. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion.
Chair Robb requested that the minutes be corrected to indicate that the meeting began at
10:04 a.m.
The motion, including the correction requested by Chair Robb, passed by unanimous
voice vote.
Justice Assistance Grant Matching Funds Policy Discussion & Vote
Fund Reallocation
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated May 25, 2017, regarding the
FFY13, FFY14, and FFY15 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Plan Adjustments. He
described a staff recommendation to reallocate $453,781 in FFY13 funds and $546,219 in
FFY15 funds that were set aside to support Information Sharing Environment
Coordination Investment Partnerships but never used.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 25, 2017

 3

Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommendation to make for other
programming the FFY13 and FFY15 JAG funds originally set aside for Information
Sharing Environment Coordination Investment Partnerships. Ms. Campanelli seconded
the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Mr.
Baldwin.
Recommended Designation
Associate Director Givens, referring to the memo, said that staff recommended
designating $285,120 in FFY14 funds to the Illinois Department of Corrections to
support its Community-Based Residential Treatment for Female Offenders Females in
Transition program for an 18-month term.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY14 JAG designation. Ms.
Vollen-Katz seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote, with a
recusal by Mr. Baldwin.
3. Death Penalty Abolition Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated May 25, 2017, regarding the
Death Penalty Abolition Act (DPA). He described a staff recommendation to designate
$1,346,943 in SFY18 Death Penalty Abolition Act funds to Chicago Citizens for Change
to provide crisis response and recovery services to family members of Chicago homicide
victims. This designation was recommended pending the appropriation of these funds so
that if and when the Authority receives the funds staff can immediately disburse them in
support of the program.
Chicago Citizens for Change representative Susan Johnson provided a program overview.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended SFY18 DPA designation. Ms.
Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
4. Federal Fiscal Year 2013 National Instant Criminal Background Check System
Act Reporting Improvement Program
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated May 25, 2017, regarding
FFY13 National Instant Criminal Background Check System Act Reporting
Improvement Program (NARIP) Plan Adjustments.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 25, 2017

 4

Recommended Rescission
Associate Director Givens said that staff recommended rescinding $1,403,100 in FFY13
NARIP funds originally designated to the Illinois Department of Human Services (IDHS)
to enhance the integration of disparate systems used by the Illinois State Police to make
the collection, evaluation, and exchange of information timelier and less labor intensive.
This recommendation was made due to a conflict between IDHS’s billing policy and the
Authority’s means of providing funding.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended FFY13 NARIP designation
rescission. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
Recommended Designation
Associate Director Givens said that staff recommended designating the $1,403,100 in
FFY13 NARIP funds rescinded from IDHS directly to the ISP for the same scope of
work: to enhance integration of its disparate systems, making collection, evaluation, and
exchange of information timelier and less labor intensive.
Motion: Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to approve the recommended FFY13 NARIP
designation rescission. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
5. Victims of Crime Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated May 25, 2017, regarding the
FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Plan Adjustments.
1. Designation Reductions
Mr. Givens called attention to the table on Page 1 of the memo describing FFY15 funds
recently returned to the Authority. He said that staff recommended making the funds
available for future programming.
Motion: Ms. Campanelli moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VOCA
designation reductions. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Mr. Baldwin.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 25, 2017

 5

2. Recommended Designations
A. Law Enforcement & Prosecutor-Based Victim Assistance Services
Associate Director Givens called attention to the table on Page 2 of the memo describing
$415,322 in recommended FFY14 and FFY15 VOCA designations to support law
enforcement and prosecutor-based victim assistance services. He said the funds would
allow the programs to operate until the end of calendar year 2017 when a new funding
opportunity will open.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY14 and FFY15 VOCA
designation reductions. Ms. Campanelli seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Ms. Kramer.
B. Civil Legal Services for Victims of Domestic Violence
Associate Director Givens called attention to the table on Page 3 of the memo describing
$5,985,738 in recommended FFY15 and FFY16 VOCA designations to support civil
legal services for victims of domestic violence.
Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt called attention to a typographical error in
the table; the Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation was erroneously listed as
being recommended for both a $528,198 designation in FFY15 funds and a $528,198
designation in FFY16 funds. He said the correct designation recommendation was for
$528,198 in FFY16 funds only and that the FFY15 recommendation was in error.
Associate Director Givens said applicants who were not awarded funding were issued
letters outlining the basic reasons for rejection.
Mr. Reichgelt said applicants who received rejection letters cannot appeal their
application’s score, but they can appeal the review process if they feel the Authority
violated rules set forth for the process.
A discussion ensued regarding VOCA guidelines and program eligibility. Executive
Director Maki said that VOCA funds are only allowed to be used for programming that
addresses victimization, as defined by the Office for Victims of Crime, and therefore
programs that support other aspects of the criminal justice system might not be allowable.
Executive Director Maki said that it is not appropriate for Authority Board members to
advocate for specific applications. Ms. Wolff said that under the Procurement Act no
Board member who will vote on these items should talk specifically about material things
relating to any notice of funding opportunity or recommended designation and, if they do,
they must report themselves under the Procurement Act.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 25, 2017

 6

Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended FFY15 and FFY16 VOCA
designations. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
3. Recommended Designations to Lead Entities
A. Services to Victims of Domestic Violence
Associate Director Givens said that on January 10 and 11, 2017, ICJIA convened the
Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee (VSAHC) to review past priorities and define new
ones for the use of VOCA funds. The VSAHC prioritized strengthening and expansion of
core services. He said funding of core services will be processed through a lead entity
policy established by ICJIA in January 2017 stating lead entities can be used to distribute
funds to sub-grantees to implement federal- and state-supported programs. When a lead
entity is identified by ICJIA, he said, the entity is responsible for the fiscal oversight and
quality assurance of its sub-grants. He added lead entities conduct structured monitoring
and provide subject matter expertise and technical assistance to sub-grantees and that the
Authority monitors lead entity grants through periodic progress reports.
Associate Director Givens said that staff recommended designating $17,300,000 in
FFY15 funds to the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence (ICADV). ICADV is a
statewide network of service providers that provides direct services to victims to alleviate
trauma and suffering resulting from domestic violence.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VOCA designation.
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. Services to Victims of Sexual Assault
Associate Director Givens said that staff recommended designating $16,300,000 in
FFY15 funds to the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA). ICASA is a
statewide network of service providers that provides direct services to victims to alleviate
trauma and suffering resulting from sexual assault.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VOCA designation.
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote, with a
recusal by Ms. Vollen-Katz.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 25, 2017

 7

C. Child Advocacy Center Services
Associate Director Givens said that staff recommended designating $7.1 million in
FFY16 funds to the Child Advocacy Centers of Illinois (CACI). CACI is a statewide
association of child advocacy centers that provides direct services to child victims to
alleviate trauma and suffering resulting from child abuse.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY16 VOCA designation.
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Associate Director Givens said only $6,846 remained undesignated out of the
$77,586,941 FFY15 VOCA award.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and
the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:44 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
May 25, 2017

 