ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 7938550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board
Meeting Minutes
July 7, 2017, 3:30 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

I. Call to Order
Era Laudermilk called the meeting to order at 3:30 p.m. ICJIA Associate General Counsel Simeon
Kim called the roll.
II. Roll Call
Member Name
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Executive Director John Maki, ICJIA
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak

Present
X
X

Absent

By Telephone

X
X
X
X

Five members were present in person and a quorum was established.
III. Approval of Meeting Minutes: June 2, 2017
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the minutes. Mr. Maki moved to approve the
minutes. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. Dr. Harrington abstained from the vote. All other
members voted in favor by voice vote.
IV. Applications for Review
1. Full IRB applications
a. Study of newspaper reporters’ coverage and understanding of human trafficking
Principle investigator: Jessica Reichert
Page   1

 Researcher: Lily Gleicher
Ms. Gleicher said researchers will conduct qualitative phone interviews with reporters who
have covered the topic of human trafficking in Illinois newspapers. She said these
interviews will offer an understanding of how reporters understand human trafficking, the
process and sources used to inform their coverage of the topic, and their perspectives on the
role of reporters in covering human trafficking.
Dr. Harrington said that section F regarding audio recordings of the interviews is vague. He
said it should be made clear that the recording is going to be transferred from a portable
recording device to a more secure computer device, and that the same recording will exist
only on a different device. Dr. Harrington then asked what happens to the recordings after
three years, since the application states that the recordings will be kept securely for three
years, and why is it only kept for three years? Ms. Gleicher said that the recordings are
transcribed, the recordings are deleted, and the transcript will be kept.
There was discussion regarding the waiver of documentation of informed consent.
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to approve the application. Dr. Cooper moved to
approve the application. Dr. Harrington seconded the motion. The motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
V. Old business
None.
VI. New Business
None.
VII. Adjourn
Ms. Laudermilk asked for a motion to adjourn. Mr. Maki moved to adjourn. Dr. Cooper seconded
the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote at 3:49 p.m.

Page   2

 