ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
November 16, 2017, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 10:03 a.m. General
Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Jim O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
Schmitz
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler

Present Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Present Telephone

Absent
X
X
X

X
X
X
X
X

 11/16/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy
Peoria Police Chief Jerry Mitchell
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director Beverly Walker

X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Program Specialist Maureen Brennan
ICJIA Associate General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Peter Kocerka, Cook County Public Defender’s Office
Rick Krause, Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA Grant Specialist Luisa Salazar
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis
Other Authority staff members and guests

1. Minutes of the October 25, 2017, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes of the October 25, 2017, Budget
Committee Meeting. Ms. Dunne seconded the motion.
Ms. Wolff said that the fifth sentence of the fourth paragraph on Page 7 of the minutes
should read (corrections in italics):
“He explained the VSAHC recommended using FFY17-FFY20 VAWA funds...”
Ms. Wolff said that the first sentence of the fourth paragraph on Page 4 of the minutes
should read (corrections in italics):
“Ms. Wolff said that she considers the role of ICJIA board to be defining desired
outcomes...”

 11/16/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

Ms. Hora said that the sixth sentence of the fourth paragraph on Page 7 of the minutes
should read (corrections in italics):
“The Sexual Assault Services Formula Grant Program directs grant dollars to states
and to assist them …”
Ms. Hora said that the attendance record should indicate that Hon. Robb was absent and
did not attend the meeting via teleconference.
Vote: The motion, including corrections, passed by unanimous voice vote.

2. Justice Assistance Grants
A. FFY14 and FFY16 Plan Adjustments
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated November 16, 2017,
regarding the FFY14 and FFY16 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Plan Adjustments. He
described $120,108 in funds recently returned to ICJIA. He then described $685,226 in
recommended designations supporting Partnerships and Strategies to Reduce Violent
Crime.
Staff provided program-specific details relating to the recommended designations.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the FFY14 and FFY16 JAG Plan Adjustments.
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal
by Ms. Dunne due to her connections to Be Well Health and the McDermott Center.
B. Court Programs Notice of Funding Opportunity
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated November 16, 2017,
regarding the Court Programs Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO). He said that staff
requested permission to use $1,350,000 in available FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 JAG
funds to support the NOFO. He said the NOFO employs a three-pronged strategy
designed to offer mid-system agencies resources for planning, operations, and
implementation of new plan-based programming. He said that this NOFO would support:
1. Operational Effectiveness - Both local and state agencies that are current JAG
recipients will be eligible to apply under this funding category. Applicants will be
required to demonstrate effectiveness of and the ongoing need for their program.
Funding minimum and maximum values will be based on the population served,
as follows:

 11/16/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

Population of Area Served
1 - 499,999
500,000 - 1,499,999
1,500,000 - 4,999,999
5,000,000 +

Minimum Award
$40,000
$40,000
$40,000
$40,000

Maximum Award
$75,000
$125,000
$175,000
$225,000

2. Planning - The proposed NOFO will earmark $250,000 for grants ranging from
$25,000 to $50,000 to support cooperative local planning processes to identify the
drivers of local crime and the programs to address the identified problems.
3. Plan-based Implementation Projects - $500,000 will be earmarked to support the
implementation of prosecution and public defense projects identified through a
local planning process as addressing local criminal justice issues.
Associate Director Givens called attention to the NOFO timeline.
ICJIA Program Specialist Maureen Brennan said that the Operational Effectiveness
programming portion of the NOFO would only support currently-funded public defense
and prosecution agencies. The Planning and Plan-based Implementation Projects portions
of the NOFO would not be limited to any particular type of agency. Agencies that apply
for and receive Planning funding will be the ones that propose the most robust and
comprehensive planning processes. The Plan-based Implementation Projects
programming will support agencies that have already undertaken planning processes.
Executive Director Maki said that this NOFO was designed to attract as many
stakeholders as possible while accommodating local dynamics.
A discussion ensued regarding how best to attract as many stakeholders as possible,
particularly those with fewer available resources, while maintaining the integrity of the
competitive nature of the NOFO.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the Court Programs NOFO. Ms. Wolff seconded
the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.

3. National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated November 16, 2017,
regarding the FFY17 National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act (NFSIA) Plan
Introduction. He said that on September 29, 2017, ICJIA received the FFY17 NFSIA
award to Illinois in the amount of $307,162. He said staff was requesting permission to
make designations. He said after administrative costs, $284,492 was available for
programming. He explained NFSIA funds are used improve the quality and timeliness of
forensic science and medical examiner/coroner’s office services, including services
provided by laboratories operated by the state and/or units of local government. He called
attention to a chart describing which entities would receive the recommended
designations.

 11/16/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the NFSIA FFY17 Plan Introduction. Ms. Dunne
seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Mr.
O’Grady due to his relationship with the Illinois State Police.

4. Victims of Crime Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated November 16, 2017,
regarding the FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Plan Adjustments. He said that
staff recommended designating $999,506 in FFY16 VOCA funds to the Hektoen
Institute’s Healing Hurt People (HHP-C) program that combats community violence. He
said that at the October 25, 2017, Budget Committee meeting, the Budget Committee
acted to defer consideration of this designation due to unresolved legal issues. General
Counsel Weis said legal staff had concerns regarding the structure of the grant and
Hektoen’s ability to properly monitor the work described.
ICJIA Associate General Counsel Bereziewicz said Hektoen has acted as a fiscal agent
for Cook County Health Systems for decades. She said they provide pre-grant human
resources to direct service providers and grant fiscal management. She said the model
under consideration would support direct service providers in two locations for two
different entities and possibly a third. ICJIA wanted to ensure that the correct program
oversight was in place in the grant agreement, as well as in the two sub-grant
agreements, she said. She said program personnel will be employed by Hektoen, not the
hospitals in which they will work, and the direct services will be floating depending on
the locations at which the services are needed at any given time.
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said that the NOFO was written with
consideration given to all of the VOCA guidelines and mandates, so all approved
applications were VOCA-compliant. Hektoen’s application received one of the higher
scores, but the organization structure was so unique that it demanded special attention, he
said.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended FFY16 VOCA designation to
the Hektoen Institute. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice
vote, with a recusal by Ms. Wolff due to her involvement with the University of Chicago
Hospital.

Public Comment
None.

 11/16/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Mr. O’Grady moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion
and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 10:43
a.m.

 