ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

AD HOC BOARD COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, September 18, 2018
10:00am - 12:00 pm
300 West Adams St. Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, IL 60606
AGENDA

I.

Call to Order and Roll Call

II.

Approval of Minutes

III.

Discuss Committee Recommendations for Meetings and Materials

IV.

Review and Discuss ICJIA’s Enabling Statute

V.

Discuss Next Steps

VI.

Adjourn

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Board Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

September 12, 2018

Re:

August 18, 2018 Meeting Overview

This memo provides an overview of the Ad Hoc Board Committee meeting, which will be held on
September 18th at ICJIA’s Office at 300 West Adams, Chicago, Suite 200 from 10am to 12pm.
The purpose of this Ad Hoc Committee is to make recommendations that will strengthen the Board’s
oversight function. At this meeting, we will first review the discussion that took place at our first
Committee meeting about how to improve our quarterly full-board meetings. Some of the major themes
included:
• More information/presentations on ICJIA funded-programs,
• More local/agency perspectives on how they are addressing public safety issues and what
members can learn from them,
• And a better understanding of ICJIA’s process and the role the Board plays in it.
From this discussion, staff will present possible strategies to organize the Board’s quarterly meetings,
which we will review in greater detail at the meeting.
After this discussion, we will then examine ICJIA’s enabling statute. While the legislature has added
several mandates, it has neither removed obsolete mandates nor amended the language of some
requirements so that it more accurately reflects the agency’s actual work. I have attached the statute to
this memo and commented in the margins on parts of the statute that for members to discuss. I also think
we should read our mandated powers and duties and discuss if it reflects ICJIA today.
I have also attached the minutes from our last meeting for your review.

John Maki
Executive Director

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

EXECUTIVE BRANCH (20 ILCS 3930/) Illinois Criminal Justice Information Act.
(20 ILCS 3930/1) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-1)
Sec. 1. Short Title. This Act shall be known and may be cited as the "Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Act".
(Source: P.A. 82-1039.)
(20 ILCS 3930/2) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-2)
Sec. 2. Purpose of Act. The purpose of this Act is to coordinate the use of information in the criminal
justice system; to promulgate effective criminal justice information policy; to encourage the
improvement of criminal justice agency procedures and practices with respect to information; to
provide new information technologies; to permit the evaluation of information practices and programs;
to stimulate research and development of new methods and uses of criminal justice information for the
improvement of the criminal justice system and the reduction of crime; to protect the integrity of
criminal history record information, while protecting the citizen's right to privacy; and to coordinate
statewide violence prevention efforts and develop a statewide plan that includes public health and
public safety approaches to violence prevention in families, communities, and schools.
(Source: P.A. 97-1151, eff. 1-25-13.)
(20 ILCS 3930/3) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-3)
Sec. 3. Definitions. Whenever used in this Act, and for the purposes of this Act unless the context
clearly denotes otherwise:
(a) The term "criminal justice system" includes all activities by public agencies pertaining to the
prevention or reduction of crime or enforcement of the criminal law, and particularly, but without
limitation, the prevention, detection, and investigation of crime; the apprehension of offenders; the
protection of victims and witnesses; the administration of juvenile justice; the prosecution and defense
of criminal cases; the trial, conviction, and sentencing of offenders; as well as the correction and
rehabilitation of offenders, which includes imprisonment, probation, parole, aftercare release, and
treatment.
(b) The term "Authority" means the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority created by this Act.
(c) The term "criminal justice information" means any and every type of information that is collected,
transmitted, or maintained by the criminal justice system.
(d) The term "criminal history record information" means data identifiable to an individual, including
information collected under Section 4.5 of the Criminal Identification Act, and consisting of descriptions
or notations of arrests, detentions, indictments, informations, pre-trial proceedings, trials, or other
formal events in the criminal justice system or descriptions or notations of criminal charges (including
criminal violations of local municipal ordinances) and the nature of any disposition arising therefrom,
including sentencing, court or correctional supervision, rehabilitation, and release. The term does not
apply to statistical records and reports in which individuals are not identified and from which their
identities are not ascertainable, or to information that is for criminal investigative or intelligence
purposes.
(e) The term "unit of general local government" means any county, municipality or other general
purpose political subdivision of this State.
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [JM1]:
While ICJIA maintains a few data bases—for instance,
InfoNet, which tracks victim service data—this does not
precisely reflect our work.

Commented [JM2]:
This list does not include ICJIA’s work in victim services.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

(Source: P.A. 98-528, eff. 1-1-15; 98-558, eff. 1-1-14; 98-756, eff. 7-16-14.)
(20 ILCS 3930/4) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-4)
Sec. 4. Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority; creation, membership, and meetings. There is
created an Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority consisting of 25 members. The membership of
the Authority shall consist of the Illinois Attorney General, or his or her designee, the Director of
Corrections, the Director of State Police, the Director of Public Health, the Director of Children and
Family Services, the Sheriff of Cook County, the State's Attorney of Cook County, the clerk of the circuit
court of Cook County, the President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, the Superintendent of
the Chicago Police Department, the Director of the Office of the State's Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor,
the Executive Director of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board, the State Appellate
Defender, the Public Defender of Cook County, and the following additional members, each of whom
shall be appointed by the Governor: a circuit court clerk, a sheriff, a State's Attorney of a county other
than Cook, a Public Defender of a county other than Cook, a chief of police, and 6 members of the
general public.
Members appointed on and after the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 98th General
Assembly shall be confirmed by the Senate.
The Governor from time to time shall designate a Chairman of the Authority from the membership. All
members of the Authority appointed by the Governor shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor for a
term not to exceed 4 years. The initial appointed members of the Authority shall serve from January,
1983 until the third Monday in January, 1987 or until their successors are appointed.
The Authority shall meet at least quarterly, and all meetings of the Authority shall be called by the
Chairman.
(Source: P.A. 97-1151, eff. 1-25-13; 98-955, eff. 8-15-14.)
(20 ILCS 3930/5) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-5)
Sec. 5. No Compensation - Expenses. Members of the Authority, other than the Chairman, shall serve
without compensation. All members shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in
connection with their duties.
(Source: P.A. 82-1039.)
(20 ILCS 3930/6) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-6)
Sec. 6. Executive Director. The Governor shall appoint an Executive Director of the Authority with the
advice and consent of the Senate. The Executive Director shall employ, in accordance with the
provisions of the Illinois Personnel Code, such administrative, professional, clerical, and other personnel
as may be required. The Executive Director may organize the staff of the Authority as he may deem
appropriate.
(Source: P.A. 82-1039.)
(20 ILCS 3930/7) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-7)
Sec. 7. Powers and duties. The Authority shall have the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
To develop and operate comprehensive information systems for the improvement and coordination of
all aspects of law enforcement, prosecution, and corrections;
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [JM3]:
Question: Does this list encompass the system in which
ICJIA works? For instance, it does not include the
Department of Juvenile Justice, a victim service
representative, or a probation representative.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

To define, develop, evaluate, and correlate State and local programs and projects associated with the
improvement of law enforcement and the administration of criminal justice;
To act as a central repository and clearing house for federal, state, and local research studies, plans,
projects, proposals, and other information relating to all aspects of criminal justice system improvement
and to encourage educational programs for citizen support of State and local efforts to make such
improvements;
To undertake research studies to aid in accomplishing its purposes;
To monitor the operation of existing criminal justice information systems in order to protect the
constitutional rights and privacy of individuals about whom criminal history record information has been
collected;
To provide an effective administrative forum for the protection of the rights of individuals concerning
criminal history record information;
To issue regulations, guidelines, and procedures which ensure the privacy and security of criminal
history record information consistent with State and federal laws;
To act as the sole administrative appeal body in the State of Illinois to conduct hearings and make final
determinations concerning individual challenges to the completeness and accuracy of criminal history
record information;
To act as the sole, official, criminal justice body in the State of Illinois to conduct annual and periodic
audits of the procedures, policies, and practices of the State central repositories for criminal history
record information to verify compliance with federal and state laws and regulations governing such
information;
To advise the Authority's Statistical Analysis Center;
To apply for, receive, establish priorities for, allocate, disburse, and spend grants of funds that are made
available by and received on or after January 1, 1983 from private sources or from the United States
pursuant to the federal Crime Control Act of 1973, as amended, and similar federal legislation, and to
enter into agreements with the United States government to further the purposes of this Act, or as may
be required as a condition of obtaining federal funds;
To receive, expend, and account for such funds of the State of Illinois as may be made available to
further the purposes of this Act;
To enter into contracts and to cooperate with units of general local government or combinations of such
units, State agencies, and criminal justice system agencies of other states for the purpose of carrying out
the duties of the Authority imposed by this Act or by the federal Crime Control Act of 1973, as amended;
To enter into contracts and cooperate with units of general local government outside of Illinois, other
states' agencies, and private organizations outside of Illinois to provide computer software or design
that has been developed for the Illinois criminal justice system, or to participate in the cooperative
development or design of new software or systems to be used by the Illinois criminal justice system.
Revenues received as a result of such arrangements shall be deposited in the Criminal Justice
Information Systems Trust Fund;
To establish general policies concerning criminal justice information systems and to promulgate such
rules, regulations, and procedures as are necessary to the operation of the Authority and to the uniform
consideration of appeals and audits;

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [JM4]:
See above—this description does not precisely reflect
ICJIA’s work in this space.

Commented [JM5]:
ICJIA does not perform this function

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

To advise and to make recommendations to the Governor and the General Assembly on policies relating
to criminal justice information systems;
To direct all other agencies under the jurisdiction of the Governor to provide whatever assistance and
information the Authority may lawfully require to carry out its functions;
To exercise any other powers that are reasonable and necessary to fulfill the responsibilities of the
Authority under this Act and to comply with the requirements of applicable federal law or regulation;
To exercise the rights, powers, and duties which have been vested in the Authority by the Illinois
Uniform Conviction Information Act;
(Blank);
To exercise the rights, powers, and duties vested in the Authority by the Illinois Public Safety Agency
Network Act;
To provide technical assistance in the form of training to local governmental entities within Illinois
requesting such assistance for the purposes of procuring grants for gang intervention and gang
prevention programs or other criminal justice programs from the United States Department of Justice;
To conduct strategic planning and provide technical assistance to implement comprehensive trauma
recovery services for violent crime victims in underserved communities with high levels of violent crime,
with the goal of providing a safe, community-based, culturally competent environment in which to
access services necessary to facilitate recovery from the effects of chronic and repeat exposure to
trauma. Services may include, but are not limited to, behavioral health treatment, financial recovery,
family support and relocation assistance, and support in navigating the legal system; and
To coordinate statewide violence prevention efforts and assist in the implementation of trauma
recovery centers and analyze trauma recovery services. The Authority shall develop, publish, and
facilitate the implementation of a 4-year statewide violence prevention plan, which shall incorporate
public health, public safety, victim services, and trauma recovery centers and services
The requirement for reporting to the General Assembly shall be satisfied by filing copies of the report
with the Speaker, the Minority Leader, and the Clerk of the House of Representatives, the President, the
Minority Leader, and the Secretary of the Senate, and the Legislative Research Unit, as required by
Section 3.1 of the General Assembly Organization Act, and filing such additional copies with the State
Government Report Distribution Center for the General Assembly as is required under paragraph (t) of
Section 7 of the State Library Act.
(Source: P.A. 99-938, eff. 1-1-18; 100-373, eff. 1-1-18; 100-575, eff. 1-8-18.)
(20 ILCS 3930/7.1)
Sec. 7.1. Sexual assault nurse examiner pilot program.
(a) Legislative findings and intent. The General Assembly finds that the compassionate treatment of
sexual assault victims in hospital emergency rooms is necessary to help alleviate the suffering of sexual
assault victims. The General Assembly also finds that the effective collection and presentation of
forensic evidence in sexual assault cases is necessary to increase the success rate of prosecutions for sex
crimes in Illinois.
The General Assembly intends to create a pilot program to establish 4 sexual assault nurse examiner
(SANE) projects in the State of Illinois. For each project, specially trained sexual assault nurse examiners
or specially trained sexual assault physician examiners will provide health assessments and collect
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [JM6]:
ICJIA does not perform these functions

Commented [JM7]:
ICJIA does not perform this function—though it does, of
course, provide general technical assistance

Commented [JM8]:
While these are recent additions, I think they could
clearer and more reflective of actual capacities.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

forensic evidence from sexual assault victims in the emergency room. The sexual assault nurse
examiners or sexual assault physician examiners will also testify to victims' injuries during criminal
prosecutions.
(b) Definitions. In this Section:
(1) "Sexual assault nurse examiner" means a registered nurse who has completed a sexual assault
nurse examiner (SANE) training program that meets the Forensic Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner
Education Guidelines established by the International Association of Forensic Nurses.
(2) "Sexual assault physician examiner" means a physician licensed to practice medicine in all its
branches who has completed a sexual assault nurse examiner (SANE) training program that meets the
Forensic Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Education Guidelines established by the International
Association of Forensic Nurses.
(3) "Hospital" means a facility licensed by the Department of Public Health under the Hospital
Licensing Act or that meets both the definition of hospital and the exemption provisions of that Act.
(4) "Hospital emergency services" means the health care delivered to outpatients within or under
the care and supervision of personnel working in a designated emergency department or emergency
room of a hospital.
(c) SANE pilot program. The Authority shall, subject to appropriation, establish a SANE pilot program
to operate 4 pilot projects in Illinois. The projects shall be established in the emergency rooms of
hospitals in 4 counties geographically distributed throughout the State. Hospitals located throughout the
State may apply to the Authority to participate in the program. Each project must provide the following
services:
(1) Compassionate health assessment and effective forensic evidence collection for sexual assault
victims by a trained sexual assault nurse examiner or sexual assault physician examiner in a hospital
emergency room as part of the provision of hospital emergency services.
(2) Presentation of testimony regarding victims' injuries during criminal prosecutions for sex
offenses.
(d) Each of the SANE projects established under this pilot program must, at a minimum, meet the
Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Standards of Practice established by the International Association of
Forensic Nurses.
(e) Each of the 4 pilot projects established by the Authority under this Section shall be in existence for
a minimum of 3 years.
(f) Report. No later than 2 years after the establishment of pilot projects under this Section, the
Authority must report to the General Assembly on the efficacy of SANE programs.
(g) Rules. The Authority shall adopt rules to implement this Section.
(Source: P.A. 91-529, eff. 1-1-00.)
(20 ILCS 3930/7.2)
Sec. 7.2. Custodial Interview Pilot Program.
(a) Legislative findings and intent. The General Assembly finds that technology has made it possible to
electronically record custodial interviews of suspects during first degree murder investigations. This
technology will protect law enforcement agencies against claims of abuse and coercion by suspects
while providing a memorialized account of interviews at police stations. The technology will also provide
a better means for courts to review confessions of suspects with direct evidence of demeanor, tone,
manner, and content of statements. The General Assembly intends to create a Custodial Interview Pilot
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [JM9]:
This is an unfounded mandate

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Program to establish 4 pilot programs at police stations in the State of Illinois. For each program, video
and audio experts shall install equipment and train participating law enforcement agencies to
electronically record custodial interviews at their respective police stations. Participating law
enforcement agencies shall choose how to use the equipment in cooperation with the local State's
Attorney's office. The participating law enforcement agencies may choose to electronically record
interviews of suspects for offenses other than first degree murder if they adopt local protocols in
cooperation with the local State's Attorney's office.
(b) Definitions. In this Section:
(1) "Electronically record" means to memorialize by video and audio electronic equipment.
(2) "Custodial interviews" means interviews of suspects during first degree murder investigations or
other investigations established by local protocol by law enforcement authorities that take place at the
police station.
(c) Custodial Interview Pilot Program. The Authority shall, subject to appropriation, establish a
Custodial Interview Pilot Program to operate 4 custodial interview pilot programs. The programs shall be
established in a police station in the County of Cook and in 3 other police stations geographically
distributed throughout the State. Each participating law enforcement agency must:
(1) Promulgate procedures for recording custodial interviews of suspects during first degree murder
investigations by video and audio means.
(2) Promulgate procedures for maintaining and storing video and audio recordings.
(d) Each of the 4 pilot programs established by the Authority shall be in existence for a minimum of 2
years after its establishment under this Act.
(e) Report. No later than one year after the establishment of pilot programs under this Section, the
Authority must report to the General Assembly on the efficacy of the Custodial Interview Pilot Program.
(f) The Authority shall adopt rules in cooperation with the Illinois Department of State Police to
implement this Section.
(Source: P.A. 93-605, eff. 11-19-03.)

Commented [JM10]:
This is obsolete

(20 ILCS 3930/7.4)
Sec. 7.4. Inventory of paper systems. The Authority may conduct an inventory of law enforcement
agencies, county sheriff's offices, clerks of the circuit court, or circuit clerks in this State that operate
using a predominantly paper system.
(Source: P.A. 100-307, eff. 1-1-18.)
(20 ILCS 3930/7.5)
Sec. 7.5. Grants for electronic recording equipment.
(a) The Authority, from appropriations made to it for that purpose, shall make grants to local law
enforcement agencies for the purpose of purchasing equipment for electronic recording of
interrogations.
(b) The Authority shall promulgate rules to implement this Section.
(Source: P.A. 93-206, eff. 7-18-03; 93-517, eff. 8-6-03.)
(20 ILCS 3930/7.6)
Sec. 7.6. Capital Crimes Database.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [JM11]:
ICJIA no longer makes such grants.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

(a) Subject to appropriation, a Capital Crimes Database shall be created within the Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority (ICJIA).
(b) The ICJIA shall collect and retain in the Capital Crimes Database all information on the prosecution,
pendency, and disposition of capital and capital eligible cases in Illinois. The Capital Crimes Database
shall serve as a repository for all of the foregoing collected information.
(c) The ICJIA shall develop administrative rules to provide for the coordination and collection of
information in the Capital Crimes Database.
(d) Agencies required to provide information on capital cases to the ICJIA, as the ICJIA may request,
for the Capital Crimes Database shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Office of the Attorney General.
(2) Illinois Department of Corrections.
(3) Illinois State Police.
(4) All county State's Attorneys.
(5) All county public defenders.
(6) Office of the State's Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor.
(7) Office of the State Appellate Defender.
(e) Agencies requested to provide information on capital cases to the ICJIA for the Capital Crimes
Database shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Administrative Office of Illinois Courts.
(2) All county circuit court clerks.
(f) The ICJIA shall develop procedures and protocols for the submission of information relating to
capital and capital eligible cases to the Database in conjunction with the agencies submitting
information.
(Source: P.A. 95-688, eff. 10-23-07.)
(20 ILCS 3930/8) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-8)
Sec. 8. Criminal Justice Agency. The Authority shall be deemed a criminal justice agency under all
federal and State laws and regulations, and as such shall have access to any information available to
criminal justice agencies.
(Source: P.A. 82-1039.)
(20 ILCS 3930/9)
Sec. 9. (Repealed).
(Source: P.A. 94-896, eff. 7-1-06. Repealed by P.A. 100-621, eff. 7-20-18.)
(20 ILCS 3930/9.1)
Sec. 9.1. Criminal Justice Information Projects Fund. The Criminal Justice Information Projects Fund is
hereby created as a special fund in the State Treasury. Grants and other moneys obtained by the
Authority from governmental entities (other than the federal government), private sources, and not-forprofit organizations for use in investigating criminal justice issues or undertaking other criminal justice
information projects shall be deposited into the Fund. Moneys in the Fund may be used by the

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [JM12]: This is obsolete

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Authority, subject to appropriation, for undertaking such projects and for the operating and other
expenses of the Authority incidental to those projects.
(Source: P.A. 88-538.)
(20 ILCS 3930/9.2)
Sec. 9.2. The Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Fund is hereby created as a special fund in
the State treasury. Deposits to this Fund shall consist of receipts from the federal government under the
Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant program and interest earned from the investment of
moneys in the Fund. Disbursements from the Fund shall be made, subject to appropriation, through
fiscal year 2013 by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority and beginning in fiscal year 2014 by
the Department of Human Services in accordance with the guidelines established by the federal
government for the Juvenile Accountability Incentive Block Grant Program. Specifically, the Fund may be
used to provide financial support to State agencies (including the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority and the Department of Human Services) and units of local government and to pay the
Authority's or Department's administrative costs associated with the Juvenile Accountability Incentive
Block Grant Program.
(Source: P.A. 98-24, eff. 6-19-13.)
(20 ILCS 3930/9.3)
Sec. 9.3. The Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal Fund. The Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal Fund is
created as a special fund in the State treasury. Moneys in the Fund shall be used for grants by the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority to local law enforcement agencies for the purpose of facilitating
the collection, transportation, and incineration of pharmaceuticals from residential sources that are
collected and transported by law enforcement agencies under Section 17.9A of the Environmental
Protection Act; to municipalities or organizations that establish containers designated for the collection
and disposal of unused controlled substances and conduct collection of unused controlled substances
through mail-back programs; and for the publication or advertising of collection events or mail-back
programs conducted by municipalities or organizations. Before awarding a grant from this Fund but no
later than July 1, 2016, the Authority shall adopt rules that (i) specify the conditions under which grants
will be awarded from this Fund and (ii) otherwise provide for the implementation and administration of
the grant program created by this Section. Interest attributable to moneys in the Fund shall be paid into
the Fund.
(Source: P.A. 99-480, eff. 9-9-15.)
(20 ILCS 3930/10) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-10)
Sec. 10. Supersedure and Transfer. The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority created by this
Act supersedes and shall assume, exercise and administer all rights, powers, duties and responsibilities
vested in the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission by "An Act creating an Illinois Law Enforcement
Commission and defining its powers and duties", approved September 20, 1977, as amended, except:
(a) those rights, powers, duties and responsibilities created by that Act with respect to the operation
or administration of juvenile justice programs pursuant to applicable State or federal laws or
regulations; and

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

Commented [JM13]:
ICJIA no longer receives this fund

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

(b) the right, power, duty and responsibility to allocate, disburse and account for grants of funds
actually received by the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission prior to January 1, 1983 from the United
States pursuant to the federal Crime Control Act of 1973, as amended, or pursuant to other similar
federal legislation.
The transfer to the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority of the rights, powers, duties and
responsibilities of the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission as provided in this Section shall not be
deemed to abolish or diminish the exercise, by the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission or as otherwise
provided by law, of those rights, powers, duties and responsibilities described in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this Section which are not transferred to the Authority pursuant to this Section.
Personnel previously assigned to programs transferred pursuant to this Section from the Illinois Law
Enforcement Commission to the Authority, other than the Executive Director of the Illinois Law
Enforcement Commission, are hereby transferred to the Authority. Effective April 1, 1983, personnel of
the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission previously assigned to the function and responsibility
described in paragraph (b) above of this Section -- except such of those personnel who, immediately
prior to April 1, 1983, were either performing such function and responsibility for the primary benefit of,
or who were also assigned to the operation or administration of the juvenile justice programs referred
to in paragraph (a) above of this Section -- shall be transferred to the Authority. The rights of the
employees or the State under the "Personnel Code" or under any other contract or plan, however, shall
not be affected thereby.
All books, records, papers, documents, real or personal property, unexpended appropriations and
pending business in any way pertaining to the rights, powers, duties and responsibilities transferred by
this Section shall be delivered and transferred to the Authority. Effective April 1, 1983, all books,
records, papers, documents, real or personal property, unexpended appropriations, undisbursed grant
moneys, if any, and pending business pertaining to the rights, powers, duties and responsibilities
described in paragraph (b) of this Section -- except such of said items as pertain primarily to the juvenile
justice programs referred to in paragraph (a) above of this Section -- shall be transferred to the
Authority.
All rights, powers, duties and responsibilities transferred pursuant to this Act to the Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority shall be vested in and shall be exercised by that Authority subject to the
provisions of this Act. Each act done in the exercise of such rights, powers and duties shall be exercised
by that Authority subject to the provisions of this Act. Each act done in the exercise of such rights,
powers and duties shall have the same legal effect as if done by the Illinois Law Enforcement
Commission or divisions, officers or employees thereof.
Every person or corporation shall be subject to the same obligations and duties and any penalties, civil
or criminal, arising therefrom, and shall have the same rights arising from the exercise of such rights,
powers and duties as if such rights, powers and duties had been exercised by the Illinois Law
Enforcement Commission or divisions, officers or employees thereof.
Every officer and employee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority shall, for any offense,
be subject to the same penalty or penalties, civil or criminal, as are prescribed by existing law for the
same offense by any officer or employee whose powers or duties were transferred to him by this Act.
Whenever reports or notices are required to be made or given or paper or documents furnished or
served by any person to or upon the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission or divisions, officers or
employees thereof with respect to any rights, powers, duties or responsibilities transferred pursuant to

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

this Act, the same shall be made, given, furnished or served in the same manner to or upon the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority.
This Act shall not affect any act done, ratified or cancelled or any right occurring or established or any
action or proceeding had or commenced in an administrative, civil, or criminal cause before this Act
takes effect; but such actions or proceedings may be prosecuted and continued by the Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority.
No rule or regulation promulgated by the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission pursuant to an
exercise of right, power or duty which has been transferred to the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority shall be affected by this Act, and all such rules and regulations shall become the rules and
regulations of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.
(Source: P.A. 82-1039.)
(20 ILCS 3930/10.1)
Sec. 10.1. Transfer of Illinois Violence Prevention Authority.
(a) The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, through its board, existing committees, and any
committee or committees created on or after the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th
General Assembly by law or pursuant to administrative rules of the Authority shall assume the powers,
duties, rights, and responsibilities transferred from the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority to the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority on the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th
General Assembly, including the powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities:
(1) to coordinate Statewide violence prevention
efforts and development of a Statewide plan that incorporates public health and public safety
approaches to violence prevention in families, communities, and schools;
(2) to seek and receive funds that may be available
from private and public sources for violence prevention efforts;
(3) to distribute, pursuant to Authority rules and
subject to available appropriations and other funds received for the purposes of this Act or the Illinois
Violence Prevention Act of 1995, grants to community and Statewide organizations, other units of local
and State government, and public school districts that address violence prevention in a comprehensive
and collaborative manner, including, but not limited to, (A) community-based youth violence prevention
programs, such as mentoring programs, after-school programs, and job training or development
programs, (B) programs for the implementation and evaluation of comprehensive school-based violence
prevention programs from prekindergarten through 12th grade, (C) early childhood intervention
programs designed to prevent violence and identify and serve young children and families at risk, (D)
family violence and sexual assault prevention initiatives, (E) programs that integrate violence prevention
initiatives with alcohol and substance abuse prevention efforts, (F) programs that integrate violence
prevention services with health care provisions, and (G) programs to support innovative community
policing or law enforcement approaches to violence prevention; and
(4) to provide technical assistance and training to help build the capacity of communities,
organizations, and systems to develop, implement, and evaluate violence prevention programs.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

(b) As soon as practicable after the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th General
Assembly, the personnel of the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority shall be transferred to the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority. The status and rights of those employees under the Personnel
Code shall not be affected by the transfer. The rights of the employees and the State of Illinois and its
agencies under the Personnel Code and applicable collective bargaining agreements or under any
pension, retirement, or annuity plan shall not be affected by this amendatory Act.
(c) As soon as practicable after the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th General
Assembly, all books, records, papers, documents, property (real and personal), contracts, causes of
action, and pending business pertaining to the powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities transferred by
this amendatory Act of the 97th General Assembly from the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority to the
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, including, but not limited to, material in electronic or
magnetic format and necessary computer hardware and software, shall be transferred to the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority.
(d) As soon as practicable after the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th General
Assembly, all unexpended appropriations and balances and other funds available for use by the Illinois
Violence Prevention Authority shall be transferred for use by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority. Unexpended balances so transferred shall be expended only for the purpose for which the
appropriations were originally made.
(e) The powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities transferred from the Illinois Violence Prevention
Authority by this amendatory Act of the 97th General Assembly shall be vested in and shall be exercised
by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.
(f) Whenever reports or notices are now required to be made or given or papers or documents
furnished or served by any person to or upon the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority in connection
with any of the powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities transferred by this amendatory Act of the
97th General Assembly, the same shall be made, given, furnished, or served in the same manner to or
upon the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.
(g) This amendatory Act of the 97th General Assembly does not affect any act done, ratified, or
canceled or any right occurring or established or any action or proceeding had or commenced in an
administrative, civil, or criminal cause by the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority before this
amendatory Act of the 97th General Assembly takes effect; such actions or proceedings may be
prosecuted and continued by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.
(h) Any rules of the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority that relate to its powers, duties, rights, and
responsibilities and are in full force on the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th General
Assembly shall become the rules of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. This amendatory
Act of the 97th General Assembly does not affect the legality of any such rules in the Illinois
Administrative Code. Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority rules shall control in instances where
the rules overlap or are otherwise inconsistent.
Any proposed rules filed with the Secretary of State by the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority that
are pending in the rulemaking process on the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th General
Assembly and pertain to the powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities transferred, shall be deemed to
have been filed by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority. As soon as practicable after the
effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th General Assembly, the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority shall revise and clarify the rules transferred to it under this amendatory Act to
reflect the reorganization of powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities affected by this amendatory Act,
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

using the procedures for recodification of rules available under the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act,
except that existing title, part, and section numbering for the affected rules may be retained. The Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority may propose and adopt under the Illinois Administrative
Procedure Act such other rules of the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority that will now be
administered by the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.
(i) To the extent that, prior to the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th General Assembly,
the Executive Director of the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority had been empowered to prescribe
rules with regard to the powers, duties, rights, and responsibilities of the Illinois Violence Prevention
Authority, such duties shall be exercised solely by the Executive Director of the Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority, beginning on the effective date of this amendatory Act of the 97th General
Assembly.
(Source: P.A. 97-1151, eff. 1-25-13.)
(20 ILCS 3930/10.2)
Sec. 10.2. ICJIA Violence Prevention Fund.
(a) The ICJIA Violence Prevention Fund is hereby established as a special fund in the State Treasury
into which funds received from private, state, or federal sources specifically for violence prevention may
be deposited, and from which funds shall be appropriated to the Authority for the purpose of exercising
the powers specified in items (1) through (4) of subsection (a) of Section 10.1 of this Act.
(b) The Fund is a continuation of the Violence Prevention Fund, which was created under Section 20 of
the Illinois Violence Prevention Act and repealed by this amendatory Act of the 97th General Assembly.
(c) Unexpended balances transferred by this amendatory Act of the 97th General Assembly may be
expended by the Authority but only for the purpose for which the appropriation was originally made.
(Source: P.A. 97-1151, eff. 1-25-13.)
(20 ILCS 3930/11) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-11)
Sec. 11. Other Functions. Effective April 1, 1983, if any of the functions relating to the rights, powers,
duties and responsibilities described in paragraph (b) of Section 10 of this Act - other than such of said
functions, if any, as pertain primarily to the juvenile justice programs referred to in paragraph (a) of
Section 10 of this Act -- have not been fully completed and performed by the Illinois Law Enforcement
Commission, the same shall be transferred to and assumed by the Authority.
(Source: P.A. 82-1039.)
(20 ILCS 3930/12) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-12)
Sec. 12. Administrative Action and Review. The Illinois Administrative Procedure Act, as amended, and
the rules and regulations adopted thereunder shall apply to and govern all administrative actions taken
by the Authority, where applicable, unless otherwise prescribed by this Act. Judicial review of final
administrative decisions may be had in accordance with the Administrative Review Law, as now or
hereafter amended.
(Source: P.A. 82-1039.)
(20 ILCS 3930/13) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-13)
Sec. 13. Construction of Act. This Act shall be liberally construed to achieve the purposes set forth in
Section 2 of this Act.
Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Sections 1 through 13 of this Act shall in no respect be considered as a repeal of, nor, except as herein
provided with respect to the transfer to the Authority of certain rights, powers, duties and
responsibilities of the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission under "An Act creating an Illinois Law
Enforcement Commission and defining its powers and duties", as a limitation of the provisions of any
existing law of this State concerning law enforcement or criminal justice, but shall be construed as
supplemental thereto.
(Source: P.A. 82-1039.)
(20 ILCS 3930/14) (from Ch. 38, par. 210-14)
Sec. 14. Illinois Law Enforcement Commission. Effective April 1, 1983:
(a) The position of Executive Director of the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission is abolished;
(b) The Illinois Law Enforcement Commission is abolished, and the terms and appointments of its
members and Chairman are terminated; and
(c) "An Act creating an Illinois Law Enforcement Commission and defining its powers and duties",
approved September 20, 1977, as now or hereafter amended, is repealed.
(Source: P.A. 98-756, eff. 7-16-14.)

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 