ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
August 22, 2018, 10:45 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.
3000 South Dirksen Parkway
Springfield, IL 62703
Roll Call
ICJIA Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting to order at
10:45 a.m. and asked General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz to call the roll.
ICJIA Board Member
Director John Baldwin
Public Defender Carla Barnes
Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Director James Chadd
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino, Vice Chair
Director Brent Fischer
State’s Attorney Kim Foxx
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Director David Olson
President Toni Preckwinkle
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Kathy Saltmarsh
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director BJ Walker
Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Director Paula Wolff

Present

Absent
X
X
X
X
X
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 Leadership Panel: A Resilient and Trauma-Informed Illinois
Research Director Dr. Megan Alderden welcomed the panelists and introduced the topic of
trauma-informed services. She explained that trauma, often conceptualized as adverse childhood
experiences (or ACEs), can cause psychological harm to the victim and manifest in chronic
health problems, depression, alcoholism and substance use, low graduate rates, academic
underachievement, lost work time, and criminal conduct. She initiated a discussion with the
panelists on what it means to be trauma-informed and why it is important.
Director John Maki quoted Chicago Beyond Executive Director Liz Dozier, who described being
trauma-informed as moving from a framework where service providers ask, “What’s wrong with
you?” to one where they ask, “What happened to you?” He said government has a responsibility
to understand the influence it has on funded organizations and also give them time to collaborate,
plan, implement, research, and evolve. Rushing those steps heightens the risk of re-traumatizing
victims, he said. Lifespan Policy Director Jennifer Greene added that training all members of an
organization, even those who do not work directly with victims, is necessary to become fully
trauma-informed.
Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence Executive Director Vickie Smith explained that in
the field of domestic violence, providing trauma-informed services means listening to and
treating the entire family, including the abuser. This practice is borne of the understanding that
all people have been through some sort of trauma, she said. UCAN Vice President of Violence
Intervention and Prevention Services Norman Kerr compared trauma-informed practices to how
a massage therapist asks which areas of their client’s body have had surgery or broken bones, so
they can understand which areas need to be treated gently.
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault Executive Director Polly Poskin recommended the
book Trauma and Recovery by Dr. Judith Herman, which explains that children can come from
environments that destroy their sense of trust, autonomy, and identity, which leaves them illprepared for adulthood. Ms. Poskin described how we meet these victims as young adults and
rather than comparing them to their well-adjusted peers, service providers need to meet them
where to properly address their trauma. Ms. Smith said no one achieves anything alone and that
walking alongside victims to understand what they need will help them move forward.
Dr. Alderden then asked for input on creating a statewide effort while recognizing that services
should be locally informed.
Children’s Advocacy Centers of Illinois Executive Director Kim Mangiaracino said her
organization achieves the best responses by participating in multi-disciplinary teams, which
ensure that systems that work in partnership with service providers also are trauma-informed.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 2

 Ms. Greene noted that while the Guiding Principles of Trauma-Informed Care have been
available for many years from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration,
further guidance on their implementation is needed. Understanding that people cannot be
categorized solely by “caused harm” and “received harm” is key to the adoption of these
principles, she said. She also asserted that trauma is not usually resolved in a few months and
that funding timelines need to reflect the long-term needs of clients.
Director Maki said that in a state that is so diverse and decentralized, collaboration is the only
way to move toward this goal. He added that in his experience, face-to-face contact helps
dissipate adversarial attitudes.
Ms. Poskin encouraged the Board to remember that government is not an entity separate from the
people, because that attitude belittles the public’s responsibility to enact change. Mr. Kerr
reminded the Board and panel that when citizens do not feel represented by the government, they
are likely to disengage rather than become empowered and involved in advocacy.
Dr. Alderden asked the panel for thoughts on next steps and to identify anticipated barriers.
Ms. Smith highlighted the need for research to examine how trauma affects human biology
throughout the life course and how to integrate the findings into practice.
Ms. Poskin noted that while people of color are more likely to be victims of crime, inequity, and
oppression, services often were provided by white people whose perspective can be a disservice
to victims even when they’re driven by compassion. Mr. Kerr added that cultural competency
should not be limited to race and ethnicity and should include generational understanding. In
addition to compassion, he said, training to compartmentalize and manage biases is key.
Mr. Kerr also explained that resiliency can be misinterpreted, especially in children, partially
because they can physically recover so quickly. He said those who work with youth outside of a
service setting may not have the clinically prescribed tools to identify and address trauma. He
said there will never have enough clinicians, so society needs to take responsibility for asking
intimidating questions in a safe way, he said.
Dr. Alderden summarized the panel’s discussion on how Illinois could become a traumainformed state:
1. Comprehensive training. Training on trauma for service providers as well as other
practitioners (e.g., criminal justice and education stakeholders).
a. The training should build cultural competencies.
b. The training should include ways to help people be self-aware of their
experiences, privileges, and prejudices and how this might impact their views,
understandings, and approaches.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 3

 2. Acknowledge historical trauma. Recognize and acknowledge the impact of historical
trauma and the role government has played in creating and reinforcing it.
3. Increase access to long-term services. Fund in a manner that allows for longer-term
services. It takes time to build the relationships needed for people to disclose their
victimization experiences and address its impact.
4. Provide space for community voice. Engage residents of the neighborhoods being
served; consider what and how being trauma-informed will assist them in building
collective efficacy and strengthening their communities.
5. Use a multidisciplinary approach. Encourage adoption of multidisciplinary team
approaches. MDT approaches can increase impact of training, buy-in, and sustainability.
6. Identify trauma and consider its impact. It is important for individuals to identify,
acknowledge, and consider the impact of trauma. This starts with being willing to screen
for trauma and then building appropriate responses.
7. Build a systematic approach. Make sure all parts of the system are aware of and
consider trauma in everyday responses.
8. Fund research that informs practice. Fund research that furthers the understanding of
trauma and what victims need. Use results to aid program growth and modification.
Public Comment
Chair Robb open the floor to public comment.
Arkhawara Salih from Apna Gar related her experience of working with domestic violence and
gender-based violence outside of the United States, and asked that ICJIA assists providers in
finding resources to work with all victims, including the abuser.
Ashley Miller of BUILD seconded Ms. Salih’s comments, requesting that grants be allowed to
fund services for victims and offenders, as well as preventative services for youth who have not
been explicitly identified as victims through the traditional criminal justice system intercepts. He
added that the voices in this conversation need to reflect the people being served.
Adjourn
Director Maki invited other members of the public to comment. Seeing none, he requested a
motion to adjourn. Mr. Kibler moved to adjourn and Ms. Hora seconded. The meeting was
adjourned at 11:58 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
August 22, 2018
Page 4

 