Ideas &
Insights

From CompStat to RespectStat:

Accountability for Respectful
Policing
By Garry F. McCarthy, Superintendent, Chicago, Illinois, Police
Department, and Dennis P. Rosenbaum, Professor for Criminology,
Law and Justice, University of Illinois at Chicago

respondents are a diverse cross-section of
the community in terms of race and ethnicity
(55 percent minorities), gender (45 percent
female), income (43 percent under $50,000
per year), and age (average 47 years).

I

Using RespectStat Data for Training

n the aftermath of the Ferguson, Missouri,
incident and other highly visible force
incidents, public trust and confidence in the
police has been shattered in cities across
the United States. As a result, many police
departments have sought ways to restore
police legitimacy through community
policing initiatives, procedural justice training, and other strategies. In fact, many have
turned to Chicago, Illinois, for direction,
since the Chicago Police Department has
been involved in such initiatives for several
years. Yet surprisingly, the law enforcement
community has no way to evaluate the success of these efforts. Are the police treating
people respectfully or not? Is the department improving over time? How does one
city compare with other cities?
As part of the National Police Research
Platform, a team of researchers and practitioners developed the Police-Community
Interaction (PCI) Survey to allow community members to evaluate their contacts
with the police and determine whether officers were treating the public in respectful,
fair, and compassionate ways.1 After preliminary testing in Chicago and other cities,
this methodology was rolled out in more
than 50 U.S. jurisdictions in 2014.
A customer satisfaction survey not only
gives police executives a mechanism for
evaluating the success of their legitimacy
initiatives, but also can be an important tool
of innovation and reform. In the same way
that CompStat is used to establish norms
and expectations within the organization,
surveys can be used to reinforce desired
behaviors during police-citizen contacts.
The Chicago Police Department plans to
use this approach to increase accountability for police officer demeanor and procedural justice. In addition to holding district
commanders accountable for using effective strategies designed to reduce serious
crime (the CompStat process), why not use
76  THE POLICE CHIEF/AUGUST 2015

this approach to help strengthen accountability for respectful treatment of the public? Hence, a new approach—one called
RespectStat—analyzes data on the quality
of police-citizen interactions to provide
constructive feedback to command-level
personnel about performance in specific
geographic areas.
There are several elements that make
the RespectStat survey different than traditional community surveys. First, it focuses
specifically on the quality of police-citizen
contacts during traffic stops and crime
reports, rather than the views of all community members (the average person has no
knowledge about the quality of police services because they have no direct contact
with law enforcement). Second, the survey
focuses on procedural justice aspects of the
encounter and police legitimacy—things
that are important to the public. Third, the
survey is independently managed by the
University of Illinois at Chicago and, therefore, reduces public concern about giving
the police negative feedback. Finally, the
survey has the potential to be institutionalized as a core measure of police performance, rather than a one-time survey used
to confirm the agency’s legitimacy. It is this
last advantage that is being explored in
Chicago: building the survey findings into
the operations of the organization, which
is consistent with calls to integrate community policing and CompStat.2

The Survey Methodology

In Chicago, the survey is being used to
collect data from citizens who have had a
recent (within the past two weeks) contact
with a Chicago police officer as a result
of a traffic stop or crime report. A letter is
sent from the police superintendent to the
citizen, inviting him or her to complete the
RespectStat survey either online or by calling a toll-free phone number. The survey

The RespectStat survey results were initially used by instructors at the Chicago Police
Education and Training Academy as they
developed and implemented a new training
program on police legitimacy as requested
by the superintendent. The survey findings
provided some context for procedural justice
training, showing, for example, that “car-side
manners” during traffic stops, specifically
respectful treatment, can have a significant
influence on the driver’s overall satisfaction
with the traffic stop. The message to officers
is that writing a ticket will not automatically
guarantee a low rating from the driver—and
that respectful, fair treatment is a good way to
deliver bad news.

Using RespectStat for Accountability

Now that the RespectStat data system is
up and running, the Chicago Police Department is exploring different ways of utilizing
the data collected, including some of the
following possibilities.
District or area comparisons. Drawing
on the CompStat approach, the survey findings can show similarities and differences
between districts or between larger areas of
the city. Figure 1 illustrates the use of PCI
survey data to make comparisons between
districts using the results from a six-month
period in Chicago from July 2014 through
December 2014. The data show the percentage of respondents who reported being
“satisfied” or “very satisfied” with the way
they were treated by the officer and reveal
that there are substantial differences in
overall citizen satisfaction across the districts, with satisfaction figures ranging from
47 percent to 83 percent.
Within district trends. Police departments may want to look at district trends
over time. This is a promising approach
because it is free of the many constraints
associated with district-by-district comhttp://www.policechiefmagazine.org

 uses metrics to assist police agencies in
achieving this mission.
The RespectStat approach should be
viewed with a few cautionary notes or
restrictions. First, unlike CompStat, the
RespectStat program will not generate
enough data to provide weekly or monthly
feedback to district commanders. Chicago is planning semi-annual reports at
the district level. For smaller agencies,
annual reports could be generated for the
entire city or large areas of the city. The
more breakdowns requested by management (e.g., by shift, by district, by type of
assignment), the larger the required survey
sample and the longer the period needed
between accountability meetings.
Second, introducing a new way of measuring performance places an additional
burden on management and one that may
present a challenge to daily operations.
Specifically, some might argue that using
the survey places conflicting demands on
police commanders. In big cities, they are
under pressure to reduce gang activity,
eliminate drug markets, and get guns off
the street. This is especially true in lowincome, high-crime neighborhoods where
officers are, on average, likely to receive
lower scores under the RespectStat system.
Thus, the challenge for commanders is to
balance and integrate proactive policing
with respectful and fair policing.
Over the past few years in Chicago,
the superintendent and his command
staff have responded to this challenge by
introducing department-wide legitimacy
training (now in phase 2), placing the
right people in these critical commandlevel positions, and beginning to monitor
the quality of police-citizen interactions
via RespectStat. There is always room for
improvement, and RespectStat is another
avenue for enhancing organizational
performance.

Satisfaction with Traffic Stops and Crime Reports (from 9/1/2014 to 2/28/2015)
Percent “Somewhat” or “Very” Satisfied with Encounter

16

6

%
83

%

25

76

%

%

80

%

40%
30%
20%
City

8

14

17

22

Police District

http://www.policechiefmagazine.org

day (see Figure 2). The color differences
roughly reflect different shifts on a 24-hour
clock. Overall, the data show that people
are somewhat less pleased with the police
on the midnight shift than at many other
times, although it must be taken into consideration that the police are dealing with
a different group of people who are awake
and active late at night. In general, shifts
start off strong and end fairly strong, with a
dip in public satisfaction in the middle.

Closing Comments and Cautions

CompStat is a methodology that uses
accountability, metrics, and crime analysis
to successfully guide the implementation
and coordination of multi-faceted crime
control strategies. Building on this model,
the law enforcement community can measure process, as well as outcome, to confirm
that the profession values police officers
interacting with the public in ways that are
respectful, fair, and responsive to community expectations. RespectStat is a tool that

Figure 2

Satisfaction by Hour/Shift (from 9/1/2014 to 2/28/2015)
Percent “Somewhat” or “Very” Satisfied with Encounter

100%

Night
Day
%
78

78
%
71
%

%

%
74
65
%

67
%

66
%

%

Evening

57

60

%

65

%
65
%
62

57
%
61
%

60%

82

80
%

%

%

70%

76
%
79

80%

%

90%
78
%

parisons. In cities like Chicago, there are
sizable differences between districts in
their levels of violent crime, concentrated
poverty, racial and ethnic populations, and
other variables that have been shown to
significantly influence perceptions of the
police. Therefore, the comparison of a district against itself may be a better indicator
of performance. Many commanders have
been assigned to communities where the
ratings of the police are historically low
because of decades of negative experiences
and historical discrimination from all sectors of society. These commanders have
inherited these low ratings and should be
judged on whether they can show improvement over time, not whether they can
“catch up” with districts that do not have the
same level of concentrated disadvantage or
historical tensions with the police.
Mapping “hotspots” of dissatisfaction.
Why not map public perceptions in the same
way that crime patterns are mapped? Data
analytics, typically applied to crime data, can
be applied to public sentiment as well, allowing organizations to identify and visualize
geographic areas where the public is most
dissatisfied or concerned about procedural
fairness by the police. Using RespectStat data,
agencies have the capacity to map “hotspots”
of public dissatisfaction or disrespect during
police encounters. Hotspots may overlap district boundaries and help police departments
target areas where additional work is needed
to improve police-citizen interactions and
restore public trust.
Differences by hour, shift, or unit. In
larger cities, executives can drill down even
deeper if they would like, looking at community satisfaction rating by shift, unit,
employee, community demographics, or
other factors.
For example, Chicago looked at differences in citizen satisfaction by time of

73

4

%
67
%
68
%

10

66

10%

%

%

19

55

20

79

12

78

2

71

1

71

%

18

69

%

69

%

68

%

67

7

%
65

67

64
11

%

63
24

%

62
5

%

62
9

%

61
15

46

50%

%

60%

%

60
3

70%

%

%

%

90%
80%

%
81
%

92

%

100%

68

Figure 1

50%
40%
30%
20%
10%

23

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22

Hour
 

THE POLICE CHIEF/AUGUST 2015   77

 Ideas & Insights
As CompStat has shown, when something is measured, it begins to matter—it
takes on importance; it becomes a priority
within the organization. For this same reason, police executives and community leaders should be encouraged to explore new
systems of accountability like RespectStat
that can supplement and balance the current
emphasis on crime control effectiveness. v
Garry F. McCarthy became the
Superintendent of the Chicago Police
Department on May 16, 2011. In his role
as the superintendent, Garry McCarthy
moves forward with evidence-based initiatives to reduce violence and improve
the quality of life in the city of Chicago.
Among these strategic initiatives, he
has led the establishment of CompStat,
a command accountability process he
supported in New York and Newark to
reduce crime through a methodological system. Superintendent McCarthy stresses the integral relationship
between the community and beat officers to work together to report, solve,
and prevent crimes.
Dennis P. Rosenbaum, PhD, is
professor of Criminology, Law and
Justice and director of the Center for
Research in Law and Justice at the
University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC).
In 2014, he was elected the first chair
of the Division of Policing, American
Society of Criminology. Dr. Rosenbaum is the executive director of the
National Police Research Platform,
a research program initially funded
by the National Institute of Justice to
advance knowledge and practice in
U.S. policing. He is currently working
with police and sheriff departments
across the United States to establish
new metrics for evaluating individual and agency performance and to
improve police-community relations.
Notes:
1
Dennis P. Rosenbaum, Daniel S.
Lawrence, Susan M. Harnett, Jack McDevitt,
and Chad Poscik, “Measuring Procedural
Justice and Legitimacy at the Local Level: The
Police-Community Interaction Survey,” Journal
of Experimental Criminology (February 2015):
online.
2
James J. Willis, Stephen D. Mastrofski, and
Tammy Rinehart Kochel, “Recommendations
for Integrating CompStat and Community
Policing,” Policing: A Journal of Policy and Practice
4, no. 2 (2010): 182–193.

78  THE POLICE CHIEF/AUGUST 2015

Reply to RespectStat:

Good, Now Let’s Go One Step Farther
Ricky C. Tanksley, Chief of Police,
Village of Oak Park, Illinois

O

ver the past two decades, CompStat
has been widely used by police executives as a tool to increase accountability for crime problems in specific districts
or precincts. Although CompStat is controversial in some circles, it does show
that police managers can be held accountable for achieving management objectives.
Given its prominence in U.S. policing, I like
the idea of using an existing structure to
advance a renewed interest in community
oriented policing. Recently, the President’s
Task Force on 21st Century Policing called
upon the law enforcement community to
embrace a new model of respectful and
fair policing in this post-Ferguson United
States. The challenge is finding new ways
to do that. I like the idea proposed by
Superintendent McCarthy and Professor
Rosenbaum to use RespectStat as a mechanism for achieving this goal. Middle and
upper management could use a nudge in
redirecting their attention to matters other
than crime statistics, thus helping them to
send the message to frontline officers and
supervisors that all persons who have contact with the police, regardless of their age,
the color of their skin, or other variables,
deserve to be treated fairly and with dignity.
At the Oak Park, Illinois, Police Department, we were involved in the initial efforts
to field test the Police-Community Interaction (PCI) Survey for the National Police
Research Platform, which served as the
basis for Chicago’s planned RespectStat
program. We also participated in the rollout
to other cities. I can report that surveying
persons with a recent police contact is a
labor-intensive, but important, effort.
I commend the many chiefs and sheriffs
who participated in the PCI survey. In one
sense, it was a risky proposition because
they did not know in advance how well
their agencies would perform relative to
other agencies. (For every agency “above
the mean,” there is another agency “below
the mean.”) However, the findings can
motivate action; we used the survey findings as an impetus to introduce new training at roll calls and to communicate to our
command staff that the Oak Park Police
Department values respectful encounters
with the public. Feedback can provide an

incentive to improve performance, and,
when your agency performs well or shows
improvement, this is a tangible reward and
an opportunity to say, “Keep up the good
work.”
A program like RespectStat would be
implemented differently in cities of different
sizes. Regardless of the frequency of reports
or the size of the area being depicted, the
agency should provide a breakdown by citizen demographics to determine whether
officers are listening to and respecting all
segments of the community.
Finally, I will end with a suggestion. One
criticism of CompStat is that it is a centralized structure that may have little impact
on the frontline officers who do not attend
CompStat meetings. RespectStat may suffer the same problem unless departments
begin to collect data and provide feedback
to individual officers as part of their performance evaluations. Most police agencies already keep performance data on
citizen complaints, arrests, citations, and so
forth for individual officers. Why not add
one more indicator, namely their scores
on respectfulness and demeanor during
encounters with the public, averaged across
all of their public contacts? Granted, this
will not be popular among the rank and file
at first, but it will send the message that we,
as police leaders, value respectful and constitutional policing. v
Ricky C. Tanksley is a 31-year veteran of the Oak Park Police Department and was appointed as chief in
2001. Chief Tanksley holds a master
of social work from the Jane Addams
School of Social Work, University of
Illinois at Chicago and a master of
science in management and organizational behavior at Benedictine University. Chief Tanksley is a graduate of
the Northwestern School of Staff and
Command, FBI National Academy,
and the Senior Management Institute for Police. In 2012, Chief Tanksley was inducted into the Center for
Evidenced-Based Crime Policy Hall
of Fame at George Mason University,
and also received the Community
Leadership Award from Concordia
University.

http://www.policechiefmagazine.org

 