ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

To: Strategic Opportunities Committee Members
From: John Maki, Executive Director
Date: May 19, 2016
Subject: May 25, 2016, Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Information

This memo provides a brief overview of the Committee’s work ahead of the May 25, 2016,
Strategic Opportunities Committee meeting.
At the Committee meeting April 27, 2016, we discussed action steps to be completed as outlined
in the FFY16 Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Strategic Plan approved in March. At the
conclusion of the meeting, we asked staff to develop and present recommendations on how to
move forward on these action steps.
Please find below an outline of the action steps we approved and staff’s corresponding
recommendations. These recommendations will be discussed in more detail on May 25th.
1.

Action Step: “The Committee will explore whether it should establish percentages priorities
of for Byrne JAG funding that should be set aside for particular program areas.”
•

Staff recommendations:
o Over the next 8-12 months, the Authority’s Research & Analysis Unit will survey
stakeholders to determine needs and emerging issues for the Byrne JAG priorities.
Stakeholders will include practitioners in law enforcement, prosecution, defense,
courts, probation and parole, correctional facilities, and prevention and education.
 To inform the survey, research staff will first conduct small focus groups of
stakeholders representing both JAG priority areas and Illinois’ regional and
demographic diversity. The results will be used by staff and the committee to
refine priorities consistent with the Guiding Principles and JAG Goals.
 The research staff will create a survey based on information collected in the
focus groups and disseminate it to Illinois’ larger public safety community.
o Authority staff also will gather funding information from other Illinois state agencies
that addresses or could address the needs and emerging issues identified. This
information will help us to further refine Byrne JAG priorities.
o The survey results and funding assessment will be presented to help the Committee
determine priorities

 o Staff will recommend an impact and feasibility tool to help the Committee determine
priorities.
2. Action step: “The Committee will develop particular goals and objectives for the Authority’s
use of research-informed RFPs on all of its federal grants, informed by the 2014 Illinois
Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA).”
•

Staff recommendation:
o As the Research & Analysis Unit helps identify Illinois funding priorities for Byrne
JAG programs, the Authority’s Federal & State Grants Unit will develop a timeline to
roll out competitive requests for proposals based on the Committee’s
recommendations and the findings from Action Step #1.

3. Action step: “The Committee will create criteria for how the Authority will define and assess
Byrne JAG programs that deliver a statewide benefit” and be used to potentially exempt
funding requests from a competitive process, pending Budget Committee approval.
•

Staff recommendation:
o The Authority should define “statewide benefit” as that which supports ICJIA’s
mandated purposes: “[T]o coordinate the use of information in the criminal justice
system; to promulgate effective criminal justice information policy; to encourage the
improvement of criminal justice agency procedures and practices with respect to
information; to provide new information technologies; to permit the evaluation of
information practices and programs; to stimulate research and development of new
methods and uses of criminal justice information for the improvement of the criminal
justice system and the reduction of crime; to protect the integrity of criminal history
record information, while protecting the citizen's right to privacy[.]” (20 ILCS
3930/2)
 This criterion would enable the Authority to support its research and
information-sharing capacities without the necessity of a competitive RFP
process, pending Budget Committee approval.

As you can see, we plan to have an important discussion and we will greatly appreciate your
time. Please notify Reshma Desai of your attendance status, if you haven’t already done so. We
look forward to seeing you.

2

 