ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
October 25, 2017, at 1:00 p.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 1:02 p.m. General
Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Jim O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
Schmitz
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler

Present Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
Present Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 10/25/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy
Peoria Police Chief Jerry Mitchell
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director Beverly Walker

X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Research and Analysis Unit Director Megan Alderden
ICJIA Program Specialist Maureen Brennan
James Chadd, State Appellate Defender’s Office
ICJIA Executive Assistant Caitlin Delong
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Rick Krause, Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Executive Director John Maki
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA Program Supervisor Greg Stevens
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis
Chief Barbara West, Chicago Police Department
Other Authority staff members and guests

Opening Remarks
Executive Director Maki said that he attended a meeting of the Illinois Audit
Commission regarding the closure of the Community Violence Prevention Program and
the Neighborhood Recovery Initiative audits. He said that questions were raised as to
ICJIA’s efforts to prevent the issues uncovered in those audits. He said that given
ICJIA’s structure, the administrative details of proposed grants are attended to before
grants are recommended to the Budget Committee for designations. He said that the
Budget Committee should concern itself with higher level review of ICJIA activities.
Executive Director Maki said that state grant programs, unlike federal grant programs,
can be difficult to manage because there is often little or no lead time and staff has little
opportunity to prepare when state government makes program funding available. In July,
ICJIA received a new item in its General Revenue budget for Community-Based
Violence Intervention and Prevention (CBVIP) programs. While staff had not been
prepared for the receipt of funding for a new program of that size, Program Supervisor

 10/25/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

Shai Hoffman and other ICJIA staff put forth a tremendous effort to develop CBVIP
designation recommendations that are included in the materials for this meeting.
1. Minutes of the September 28, 2017, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the minutes of the September 28, 2017, Budget
Committee Meeting. Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the motion.
Ms. Kramer said that the motion described in the fourth paragraph on Page 4 of the
minutes should read (corrections in italics):
“Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended SFY18 IFVCC designations. Ms.
Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. Ms.
Vollen-Katz said that she voted yes with the caveat the she would not do so again
without first knowing who all of the stakeholders are for each designation.”
Ms. Kramer said that the second sentence of the fourth paragraph on Page 5 of the
minutes should read (corrections in italics):
“Staff should be trusted regarding the allowability…”
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
2. Community-Based Violence Intervention and Prevention
Notice of Funding Opportunity
Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman called attention to a memo dated October 25, 2017,
on page 9 of the meeting materials regarding SFY18 funding for the Community-Based
Violence Intervention and Prevention (CBVIP) programs. He said a Notice of Funding
Opportunity for CBVIP programs was released on July 19, 2017. He said 71 applications
for funding were submitted. He described the application scoring and selection process.
He said that applicants were allowed to request funding amounts between $100,000 and
$1 million.
Ms. Hora said that setting minimum funding amounts can cause problems for smaller
agencies because some agencies might not need the minimum amount to effectively
implement or support a program.
Mr. Hoffman said that budget details of individual CBVIP grant agreements were still
being negotiated at the time of this meeting and may be revised downward from the
amounts recommended for designation.
Ms. Hora said that ICJIA has an obligation to consider opportunities on a statewide basis.
Perhaps technical assistance should be made available to the smaller agencies who lack
the personnel or expertise to craft a competitive application.

 10/25/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

Recommended Designations
Associate Director Givens called attention to the table on page 1 of the memo describing
maximum recommended designation amounts that would likely result in budgets and
agreements for lower amounts during the pre-award process. He said staff recommended
designating $6,840,000 in SFY18 funds to 14 entities to support programs that combat
community violence. He said that the entities in the table on page 2 of the memo would
only receive an award if there are funds available once award amounts are reduced for the
agencies listed on the table on page 1.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended SFY18 CBVIP designations.
Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the motion.
Ms. Hora said that the materials presented in support of the CBVIP program appeared to
be similar to the materials that had been presented in support of the Neighborhood
Recovery Initiative (NRI). She said that she had concerns about effectively being asked
to trust staff’s discretion without having questions answered, particularly as no budget
information has been provided. She requested being on the record as not believing that
the Budget Committee should simply rubber-stamp everything; as believing that the
committee has a duty to review specific things and ask questions; as believing that two to
three sentences is rarely sufficient to describe designation proposals in the hundreds of
thousands of dollars; and she said that more time was needed for board members to
review the materials. She called attention to the text on Page 10 of the memo describing
the Springfield Urban League and said that she would have a hard time approving funds
to support community block parties because that sounds like the sort of thing on which
NRI grantees spent funds. She said that providing funds for employment opportunities
can yield dubious results. She said that as a Budget Committee member, she was
concerned about the lack of detail for some of the recommended designations. She said
that she needed more information on recommendations to designate millions of dollars on
programs that are likely to be heavily scrutinized.
Ms. Wolff said that she considers the role of ICJIA board to be defining desired outcomes
and granting money to achieve those outcomes and then measuring whether or not those
outcomes have been met. She said that the language in the meeting materials is important,
but not as important as the guarantee from staff and the reviewers that the outcomes
described in the NOFO are met and that there is a rigorous evaluation and data collection
process so that we will be able, as Budget Committee members, to have assurances that
the stated goals have been met. A well-crafted application does not necessarily translate
into a desired outcome. She said that she would rely on staff and on the reviewers to
recommend for designation programs that they feel confident about with regard to the
likelihood of said programs achieving the outcomes described in the NOFO per the
information submitted in their applications. She said that there is an inherent degree of
risk involved in issuing any grant, but it is the fiduciary responsibility of the Budget
Committee to ask the staff questions about their confidence in their recommendations and
to ask about the processes and timing of outcome measurements.

 10/25/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

Ms. Barnes said that she appreciated Ms. Wolff’s comments because, for example, block
parties are a good way to conduct outreach in certain communities.
General Counsel Weis said that funds supporting block parties would only be used for
specific allowable purposes in support of the goals stated in the NOFO. Block parties can
be critical to performing this kind of work.
Executive Director Maki said that it is not realistic to expect staff to produce in-depth
recommendation reports that provide a lot of specific details given the timeframe with
which they had; from having the funds announced on short notice in July through
processing a notice of funding opportunity to presenting designation recommendations.
He said that the Budget Committee best serves the interests of ICJIA by asking high-level
questions and trusting staff to handle grant-specific detail issues.
Ms. Vollen-Katz said that the board’s role should be to oversee process and the board
should recognize that staff has subject-matter expertise that should be trusted. With
regard to the audit findings, she noted that ICJIA is now under different leadership and
grant-making is now subject to rules set forth in the Grant Accountability and
Transparency Act.
Discussion ensued regarding the details of specific designation recommendations.
Executive Director Maki encouraged board members to call the appropriate members of
ICJIA’s executive staff with any question that they might have regarding future meeting
materials so that staff can be better prepared to respond at the Budget Committee
meetings.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote with an abstention by Ms. Hora.
3. Victims of Crime Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated October 25, 2017, regarding
the FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Plan Adjustments. He said that in keeping
with the priorities identified by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee, staff
recommended designating $7,444,293 in FFY16 funds to the entities described in the
chart on Page 1 of the memo to support programs that combat community violence. He
called attention to the line item in the chart for the recommended designation to
Hektoen Institute, marked with and asterisk (*), and he said that at the time that this
memo was written, there were still unresolved issues regarding the contract negotiation,
therefore, no Grant Recommendation Report was included in the materials for Hektoen
Instititue. He said that staff recommended approving the designation to Hektoen
Institute with the caveat that the designation’s approval would be contingent on the
resolution of said contract issues. He said that staff requested permission to rescind this
designation if the contract issues are not resolved by December 1, 2017. He said that

 10/25/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

staff will provide the Hektoen Institute Grant Recommendation Report at the November
16, 2017 Budget Committee meeting.
General Counsel Weis recommended removing the Hektoen Institute line item
designation recommendation from the list of items under consideration in this agenda
item. She suggested postponing the Hektoen Institute designation recommendation until
the Budget Committee meeting scheduled for November 16, 2017 when it could be
properly presented with the necessary background information.
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai said that the issue with the Hektoen
designation revolves around contractual issues between Hektoen and Stroger Hospital.
She said ICJIA’s legal staff wants to ensure that Hektoen is the entity responsible for
fiscal and programmatic oversight of the grant.
Motion: Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to approve the recommended FFY16 VOCA
designations, with the exception of the recommended designation to the Hektoen
Institute. She said it would be removed from this list of designations and presented for
approval at the November 16, 2017, Budget Committee meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded
the motion.
Ms. Hora said that there is a lot of misinformation regarding compensation programs. She
volunteered her staff to assist in conducting training sessions for new VOCA grantees so
that they have a good understanding of compensation.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
4. Justice Assistance Grants
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated October 25, 2017, regarding
the FFY14 and FFY16 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Plan Adjustments. He said that at
the July 27, 2017, Budget Committee meeting, the committee acted to reduce the FFY14
Justice Assistance Grant designation of $331,569 to the Illinois Department of
Corrections (IDOC) for its Community-Based Residential Treatment for Adults program
by $317,902, resulting in a revised designation of $13,667. The funds were later
reprogrammed.
He said staff had since learned that this designation reduction request was made in error;
the designation should have been reduced by $13,667 for a revised designation of
$317,902. Staff now recommends designating $304,235 in FFY14 funds to IDOC to
restore the designation to its correct amount of $317,902. To make $304,235 in FFY14
funds available to restore the IDOC’s designation, he said staff recommended rescinding
the $420,000 designation of FFY14 funds made to Haymarket Center at the July 27,
2017, Budget Committee meeting for its Women’s Residential Treatment program. He
said staff recommended re-designating the $420,000 for Haymarket’s program using
FFY16 funds. This would result in $115,765 in FFY14 funds being made available for
future programming, he said.

 10/25/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 7

Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY14 and FFY16 JAG plan
adjustments. Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous
voice vote, with a recusal by Ms. Dunne.
5. Violence Against Women Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated October 25, 2017, regarding
the FFY12 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Plan Adjustments. He said that the
Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network conducts a centralized training
program for Chicago-area domestic violence agencies that, each quarter, provides five
40-hour domestic violence training services to between 25 and 35 service providers and
15 advanced and specialized training services to between 150 and 200 service providers.
He said staff recommended a designation of $21,194 in FFY12 discretionary Violence
Against Women Act funds to the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network to
continue this program for an additional 12 months.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended FFY12 VAWA plan
adjustment. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
6. Violence Against Women Act – Sexual Assault Service Program
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated October 25, 2017, regarding
the FFY17 Violence Against Women Act – Sexual Assault Services Program (VAWA
SASP) Plan Introduction. He said that the FFY16 VAWA SASP award to Illinois was
$531,869 and $26,593 of that was set aside for administration purposes. He said the
designations recommended in this memo and future designations will be consistent with
the priorities set forth in the FFY17-FFY20 VAWA Multi-Year Plan. He said on January
10 and 11, 2017, ICJIA convened the Victim Service Ad Hoc Committee (VSAHC) to
review past priorities and define new ones for the use of STOP VAWA funds. He
explained the VSAHC recommended using FFY17-FFY20 VAWA funds principally to
continue to support successful programs previously funded through VAWA. The Sexual
Assault Services Formula Grant Program directs grant dollars to states to assist them in
supporting rape crisis centers and other nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations that
provide core services, direct intervention, and related assistance to victims of sexual
assault, he said.
He said staff recommended designating $505,276 in FFY17 VAWA SASP funds to the
ICASA to be subgranted to ICASA’s partner agencies through a request-for-proposals
process. Due to the delayed receipt of this federal award, staff requested making the
designation retroactive to August 1, 2017, he said.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended FFY17 VAWA SASP plan
introduction. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion.

 10/25/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 8

Associate Director Givens said that ICASA will submit the request for proposals that it
develops to ICJIA for approval. ICASA has its own internal review process and, upon
completion of which, ICASA will submit to ICJIA a list of grant awardees. ICJIA staff
will conduct site visits at ICASA to ensure that ICASA is properly monitoring its
grantees, he said. ICJIA staff can monitor ICASA’s grantees if staff feels that it would be
necessary, he said.
General Counsel Weis said that ICJIA must approve of ICASA’s monitoring processes,
policies, and procedures.
The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Vollen-Katz moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
2:25 p.m.

 