ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
October 18, 2018, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 10:12 a.m. ICJIA
Acting General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Present Telephone
Peter Kocerka for Cook Co. Public Defender Amy
X
Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
X
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
X
Marni Malowitz for Illinois State Police Director Leo
X
Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Present Telephone
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State Appellate Defenders Office Director James Chadd
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
David Olson

Absent

X

X
Absent
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 10/18/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Kathryn Saltmarsh
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Antwan Turpeau for Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services Director Beverly Walker

X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Acting General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz
ICJIA Grant Specialist Maureen Brennan
Mari Chistopherson, Illinois Court Appointed Special Advocates
ICJIA Grant Specialist Rise Evans
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey
Rick Krause, Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Executive Director John Maki
ICJIA Grant Accountability and Transparency Act Compliance Officer Adriana Perez
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Acting Associate Director Greg Stevens
Barbara West, Chicago Police Department
Other Authority staff members and guests
I. Minutes of the September 4, 2018, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve the minutes of the September 4, 2018, Budget
Committee Meeting. Ms. Dunne seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
II. Justice Assistance Grants FFY14, FFY16 and FFY17 Plan Adjustments
Mr. Stevens said while ICJIA had received the FFY17 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)
award, funds will not be available until certifications are completed. He said six-month
grant designations were made at the previous Budget Committee meeting to support JAG
programs in their second years. He said FFY17 funds will allow full-year funding, as
originally intended.
To ease the grant administration process, Mr. Stevens recommended combining the
funding for the second six-month period with a full year of funding for the third and final
year, thus creating 18-month grants. If the Grant Accountability and Transparency Unit
does not approve creation of 18-month grants, staff will recommend creating two nine-

 10/18/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

month grants, he said. The FFY17 funds also will allow staff to reconsider notices of
funding opportunity that had been set aside due to the lack of available funds.
Mr. Stevens referred the committee to a memo located at Page 8 of the meeting materials,
dated October 18, 2018, regarding FFY14, FFY16, and FFY17 JAG plans.
A. 1. Designation Reduction
Mr. Stevens said the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office returned $14,219 in FFY16
JAG funds designated to support a Human Trafficking Task Force due to personnel,
supplies, and travel costs being less than expected. He said staff recommended making
the funds available for future programming.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended FFY16 JAG designation
reduction. Mr. Kocerka seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
A. 2. Designation Adjustment
Mr. Stevens said that on September 4, 2018, the Budget Committee reduced a FFY14
JAG designation to the City of Springfield for its Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent
Crime Program from $197,313 to $148,909. He said a recent rule change by the Office
of Justice Programs forced FFY14 fund expiration on September 30, 2018, causing
Springfield’s grant to end two months and 12 days earlier than anticipated. He said that
at the September 4, 2018 Budget Committee meeting, the pro-rated balance of the
FFY14 designation, $48,404, was included in a new FFY16 designation of $146,933 to
support the program through June 12, 2019. Staff has since discovered an accounting
error; the original FFY14 designation should have been reduced to $130,590 and the
new FFY16 continuation designation should have been for $145,765. He said staff
recommended adjusting these designations accordingly.
Motion: Ms. Malowitz moved to approve the recommended FFY14 JAG designation
adjustment. Ms. Dunne seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. New Designations
Mr. Stevens said at its August 18, 2017, and September 16, 2017, meetings, the Budget
Committee designated funding to four jurisdictions through the competitive Partnerships
and Strategies to Reduce Violent Crime Request for Proposals. The Year One
designations supported research-informed planning to identify the drivers of violent
crime in each jurisdiction through formation of local multi-disciplinary teams,
community surveys, the Scanning, Analysis, Response and Assessment (SARA)
process, and other analytical tools.

 10/18/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

Mr. Stevens said staff recommended designations to these jurisdictions, as described in
the table, to complete their planning initiatives and begin implementation of focused
deterrence strategies targeting offenders at highest risk of reoffending, offering social
supports, and imposing swift, certain, and fair sanctions for non-compliance. He said the
designations support ongoing research partner contracts and salaries for local program
coordinators and community-based program navigators who facilitate offender call-in
meetings and foster offender participation.
Agency
City of Champaign
Rockford Metropolitan Agency for
Planning (RMAP)
Total:

FFY16 Designation
$79,652
$105,725
$185,377

Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve the recommended FFY16 JAG designations.
Ms. Malowitz seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
III. FFY17 Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Plan Adjustment
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey referred Budget Committee members to a
memo located at Page 16 of the meeting materials, dated October 18, 2018, regarding
FFY17 Residential Substance Abuse Treatment (RSAT) plans. She said staff
recommended the following continuation designations to support residential substance
abuse treatment and aftercare services for inmates:
PROGRAM
Dual Diagnosis Treatment for Women
IYC Harrisburg Treatment
Total
Available Funds

FFY17
$84,715
$46,060
$130,775
$175,541

Motion: Ms. Malowitz moved to approve the recommended FFY17 RSAT designations.
Ms. Dunne seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
IV. Victims of Crime Act Plan Adjustment FFY15 and FFY16 Plan Adjustments
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt referred the Budget Committee members to a
memo located at Page 19 of the meeting materials, dated October 18, 2018, on FFY15
and FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) plans.

 10/18/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

A. Designation Reductions
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt described funds recently returned to ICJIA.
He said FFY15 funds expired on September 30, 2018 and are no longer available for
use. He said staff recommended making the returned FFY16 funds available for future
programming.
Ms. Hora inquired about funds returned from the University of Illinois at Chicago/Cure
Violence program. Mr. Reichgelt said that the program was not implemented because
many of its proposed expenditures were not allowed under VOCA rules. He said despite
receiving a great deal of technical assistance from ICJIA, UIC decided not to pursue the
program.
Mr. Kocerka inquired about funds returned from Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence (ICADV) and the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA). Mr.
Reichgelt said the coalitions have been long-standing pass-through entities that
distribute VOCA funds; ICJIA issues the coalitions the grants to pass on to partner
agencies. The coalitions then take on monitoring responsibilities for the funds that they
pass on, he said. He explained the FFY15 grant awards were for significantly more
money than the coalitions had received in prior years; with a $14-million increase to
ICADV and a $10-million increase to ICASA.
Director Maki said the programs began during the state’s budget impasse and many of
the partner agencies were not ready to receive so much money so quickly. He said staff
does not anticipate these issues in the future.
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve the recommended FFY15 and FFY16 VOCA
designation reductions. Ms. Dunne seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. New Designations
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt described recommended FFY16 designations
to support Community Violence Programs for another six months.
Mr. Kocerka called attention to the fact that the $3,595,948 figure representing the total
of the FFY16 recommended designations in the paragraph describing the Community
Violence Programs designation table did not match the $2,545,946 figure listed in the
table itself. Mr. Reichgelt said that the $2,545,946 figure in the table was the correct
figure.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the recommended FFY16 VOCA designations.
Mr. Kocerka seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 10/18/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

V. Public Comment
Mari Christopherson of Illinois Court Appointed Special Advocates (ICASA) said last
year, ICJIA provided $2.1 million to 11 ICASA programs. She said that the 11 programs
serve 45 counties, but provide only spotty coverage. She said local programs had a lot of
questions about the granting process and that the Grant Accountability and Transparency
Act has proven difficult for the programs to navigate.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Kocerka seconded the motion.
The motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:19 a.m.

 