ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
JOINT STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES/COORDINATING COUNCIL
ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, April 19, 2018, at 2:00 p.m.
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Roll Call
Chair Paula Wolff called the meeting to order at 2:06 p.m. and Abraham Zisook called
the roll.
Committee Member Attendance

Present

Director Paula Wolff (Chair)

X

Telephone

Director John Baldwin
Director Patrick Delfino

X
X

Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa
Madigan

Absent

X
X

Director Michael J. Pelletier

X

President Toni Preckwinkle

X

Other Authority Members Present

Present

Peter Kocerka for Cook Co. Public
Defender Amy Campanelli

X

Hon. Bryan Kibler

X

Hon. Elizabeth Robb

X

Telephone

Absent

Shawn O’Toole for OSAD Director
James Chadd

X

Director Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X

Also in attendance were:
Dr. Megan Alderden, ICJIA Research Director

 Maureen Brennan, ICJIA Grant Specialist
Christine Devitt Westley, Manager of the Center for Criminal Justice Data and Analytics
Dawn English, ICJIA Human Resources
Kalyn Hill, National Governors Association (Phone)
Bryant Jackson-Green, ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor
Bobae Kang, ICJIA Research Analyst
Keeley Kolis, ICJIA Research and Analysis Intern
John Maki, ICJIA Executive Director
Adriana Perez, Adult Redeploy Illinois Program Manager
Mary Ratliff, Program Director, Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council (Phone)
Emma Rubin, Adult Redeploy Policy and Project Coordinator
Abraham Zisook, ICJIA Victims of Crime Act Attorney

Approval of Minutes
Minutes will be approved at the next meeting June 14, 2018.
Discussion on “Data, Planning, and Impact: A Joint Adult Redeploy Illinois and Criminal
Justice Coordinating Councils Summit”
This meeting began with an overview of the upcoming joint conference of Adult
Redeploy and Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils (CJCCs) entitled “Data, Planning,
and Impact: A Joint Adult Redeploy Illinois and Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils
Summit” hosted by ICJIA, Adult Redeploy Illinois, and Loyola University’s Center for
Criminal Justice Research, Policy, and Practice. Director Maki said attending the summit
will be a range of stakeholders from counties and judicial circuits either operating or
interested in developing CJCCs and ARI-funded local prison diversion programs. The
summit will take place in Bloomington May 8-10, 2018.
Director Maki, and Mr. Jackson-Green provided an overview of the agenda. Director
Maki emphasized that the strategic direction for the event will be at the local level. Mr.
Jackson-Green described the various sessions to be held. The summit will focus on issues
pertaining to ARI and CJCC work, with CJCCs being the focus on the first day, ARI
being the focus of the last day and joint sessions during the full day between them.
Participants were invited to attend all days of the summit. Mr. Jackson-Green said the
event will facilitate group discussion among stakeholders and serve as the first step in an
ongoing strategic planning process for each county in attendance.
Director Maki added that the abstract theme of discussion will revolve around how to
coordinate the coordination efforts. He said the overall purpose of the summit is to
identify common elements and themes and determine how ICJIA can then help facilitate.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2018
Page 2

 Director Maki requested feedback on how to best memorialize summit findings and
disseminate the information. Various types of products were discussed including
webinars, recordings, publications, and reports.
This prompted discussion about the release of notices of funding opportunity and
questions about what board members are and are not allowed to discuss with potential
grantees. Director Maki clarified that board members are allowed to discuss the
application process but should direct other questions to ICJIA. Ms. Hora suggested ICJIA
create a webinar with a question-and-answer session about funding opportunities.
Director Maki said ICJIA could provide general talking points and basic instructions. In
place of a webinar, Mr. Jackson-Green proposed providing a list of frequently asked
funding opportunity questions with answers to the SOC and other ICJIA board members.
Ms. Rubin, shared totals registered for the Summit for each day and noted maximum
capacity for each day is 250 participants.
Next Steps: ICJIA’s Coordination Work
Director Maki then led a discussion on next steps ICJIA should take after the summit and
encouraged members to think about what they wanted to get out of the event. He
elaborated that overlapping goals following the conference are to engage ARI to think
more broadly about current work, what it can do for county-level stakeholders and how
ICJIA can help them; strengthen and solidify ongoing work with community coordinating
councils; recruit additional counties as CJCC participants; build local constituency for
ICJIA; and for the SOC to think more broadly about issues (outside of funding).
Chair Wolff inquired whether ICJIA would be requesting evaluations from participants.
Director Maki said ICJIA will be administering evaluations to participants at the end of
each day of the summit. Chair Wolff said she was interested in questions ICJIA would be
asking. This prompted discussion about the ongoing research at ICJIA and about
evaluation of projects. Dr. Alderden said ICJIA is conducting evaluations on new
research projects based off an evaluation plan (as of January 2018) and has predetermined research questions for each project. Dr. Alderden said she would be share the
research plan, including research questions and goals, with the board. Planning efforts,
project goals, and evaluation were further discussed.
Mr. Jackson Green noted Juvenile Justice Coordinating Councils were invited to the
summit.
Chair Wolff asked what other state agencies are doing to facilitate coordination. Director
Maki said asking this question on the summit evaluations may be a ground-up approach
to engaging with local level entities and facilitating future discussion.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2018
Page 3

 Adjourn
Chair Wolff offered the floor for public comment. Seeing none, she asked for a motion to
adjourn. The motion was made and seconded. The meeting adjourned at 3:00 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Strategic Opportunities Committee Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2018
Page 4

 