ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
August 14, 2018, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 10:05 a.m. Acting
General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Present Telephone
Peter Kocerka for Cook Co. Public Defender Amy
X
Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
X
Jim O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
X
Schmitz
Paula Wolff
X
Other Authority Member Attendance
Present Telephone
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
X
Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes
X
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State Appellate Defenders Office Director James Chadd
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh

Absent

X
X

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X

 8/14/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
David Olson
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Kathryn Saltmarsh
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director Beverly Walker

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Research and Analysis Unit Associate Director Megan Alderden, Ph.D.
ICJIA Acting General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz
ICJIA Criminal Justice Specialist Maureen Brennan
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Rick Krause, Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Acting Associate Director Greg Stevens
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
Megan Mahoney, Heartland Alliance
ICJIA Executive Director John Maki
ICJIA Criminal Justice Specialist Lajuana Murphy
ICJIA Program Supervisor Mary Ratliff (via teleconference)
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
Victor Dickson, Safer Foundation
Mary Alston, Safer Foundation
Joe Urban, Safer Foundation
Dr. April Bernard, Safer Foundation
Other Authority staff members and guests
Executive Director’s Comments
Director Maki said ICJIA had not yet received its FFY17 Justice Assistance Grant (JAG)
award. He said staff has had little communication with the U.S. Department of Justice
and has little information about when ICJIA might receive the FFY17 award.
Mr. Stevens said grantees are using FFY13, FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 JAG funds to
operate their programs. He said at the September 4, 2018, Budget Committee meeting,
staff will request six-month designations of JAG funding to continue current programs as
there is not enough JAG money left to support grants beyond six months.

 8/14/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

1. Minutes of the June 21, 2018, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Hon. Robb moved to approve the minutes of the June 21, 2018, Budget
Committee Meeting. Mr. Kocerka seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
2. State Appropriated Programs
Mr. Stevens referred the Budget Committee members to a memo dated August 14,
2018, regarding State Appropriated Programs.
A. Community – Law Enforcement Partnership for Deflection & Substance Use
Disorder Treatment Notice of Funding Opportunity
Ms. Murphy said that the Community-Law Enforcement Partnership for Deflection &
Substance Use Disorder Treatment (CLEP) program received a $500,000 appropriation
in the SFY19 budget. She said CLEP is a police-led deflection program in which law
enforcement acts as a referral service to help individuals access treatment and that the
goal of CLEP is to build referral capacity. Staff requested making the $500,000
appropriation available for a competitive, standardized Notice of Funding Opportunity
(NOFO) for CLEP program awards. She said the opportunity would be available to law
enforcement agencies throughout Illinois and was scheduled for release August 30,
2018, with programs running from January 1, 2019 to June 30, 2019. She added grants
would be made for a minimum of $20,000 and a maximum of $80,000. Two years of
further funding would be available pending performance evaluation and available
funding, she said. She noted the NOFO would only be released if the Community-Law
Enforcement Partnership for Deflection and Addiction Treatment Act became law.
Members discussed that many state-appropriated programs do not include set-asides for
ICJIA administrative expenses and that work relating to these programs must be
assigned to ICJIA staff who are paid with general revenue funds. Director Maki
suggested that ICJIA Board members send a letter to the state’s appropriations chair
requesting an increase in general revenue funds to support administrative activities. He
said more funds appropriated for programs means more work and under the new Grant
Accountability and Transparency Act, grantmaking has become more complicated and
labor intensive.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve making the $500,000 SFY19 CLEP appropriation
available for a NOFO. Hon. Robb seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 8/14/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

B - Death Penalty Abolition Act Fund
Ms. Brennan said Death Penalty Abolition (DPA) Act funds can only support services
to survivors of homicide victims and law enforcement officer training. She said two
NOFOs were under development; one for providers of services to survivors of homicide
victims across Illinois and another for law enforcement officer training on focused
deterrence, implicit bias, and procedural justice. She said staff would consider other
priorities, as requested.
Motion: Hon. Robb moved to approve making the $6,500,000 SFY19 DPA fund
appropriation available for two NOFOs, as described. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
C - Duane Dean Behavioral Health Center Fund
Mr. Hoffman said that the Duane Dean Behavioral Health Center received a SFY19
line-item appropriation of $400,000. He said the center’s community diversion program
will incorporate community education and trainings, cognitive behavioral counseling,
medication-assisted therapy, case managers, a peer support specialist, and recovery
coaches. He said the program seeks to employ a broad-based comprehensive approach
in Kankakee County to educate and increase access to services to the local criminal
justice systems, the local community, and individuals with opioid use disorder.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to designate the $400,000 SFY19 appropriation to the Duane
Dean Behavioral Health Center to support its community diversion program. Mr. Olson
seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
D – Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal Fund
Ms. Brennan said earlier this year, ICJIA asked the Illinois Sheriff’s Association (ISA)
and the Illinois Association of Chief of Police (IACP) to consider procuring drug
disposal kits with SFY18 Prescription Pill and Drug Disposal (PPDD) funding on behalf
of their member agencies, since the negotiation and execution of many grants smaller
than $2,000 each would be onerous for both ICJIA and the recipient agencies. She said
ISA accepted and agreed to make the kits available to ISA and IACP members. She said
the ISA agreed to take on the role again this year using the $150,000 SFY19 PPDD
appropriation.
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to designate the $150,000 SFY19 PPDD appropriation to
the ISA for statewide distribution. Mr. O’Grady seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 8/14/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

E – Safer Foundation Fund
Mr. Hoffman said Safer Foundation seeks to implement a violence prevention program
by providing employment opportunities to at-risk individuals. He said Safer Foundation
will recruit, screen, and prepare program participants for sustainable employment in
auto mechanics, food service/culinary arts, woodworking/cabinetry, consumer goods
manufacturing, construction, and media.
Motion: Ms. Hora moved to designate the $500,000 SFY19 appropriation to the Safer
Foundation to support its violence prevention program. Hon. Robb seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Mr. Kocerka.
3. Victims of Crime Act FFY15, FFY16, and FFY17
Mr. Stevens referred Budget Committee members to a memo dated August 14, 2018,
regarding FFY15, FFY16, and FFY17 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) plans.
A. Designation Reduction
Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said the Southern Illinois Health Care Foundation’s
Services to Downstate Victims of Crime program returned $4,439 in FFY15 funds to
ICJIA due to personnel issues. He said the FFY15 funds, which expire on September 30,
2018, would be returned to the U.S Office for Victims of Crime.
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VOCA designation
reduction. Mr. Olson seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. Recommended Designations
Services to Victims of Domestic Violence
Mr. Reichgelt said staff recommended designating $455,000 in FFY16 funds to the
Chicago Department of Family and Support Services to support the Statewide Domestic
Violence Hotline.
Transitional Housing
Mr. Reichgelt said ICJIA issued a NOFO seeking applications for the development or
enhancement of transitional housing for victims of domestic violence and/or human
trafficking. He said 11 of 19 applicants were recommended for funding by the review
panel. He said the recommended 18 months of funding would complete the 36 months
of funding passed by the board. He said at the end of the 36-month period, staff will

 8/14/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

evaluate the transitional housing program and determine whether funds should be
offered again for the program in the future.
He noted goals and objectives described in the meeting materials were in addition to
what the grantees must respond to in OVC’s Performance Measuring Tool. Director
Maki said that the additional reporting allows for better analysis of the relationship
between grantee activity and the provision of qualitative services.
Ms. Hora said that she would rather see tangible numbers represented than percentages
to get a better idea of actual activity.
Dr. Alderden said GATA operates under the assumption that three years is an
appropriate programming timeframe. She said what is really needed is a pre-planning
period and then a program period of up to five years to allow programs to be fully
implemented and evaluated for process and outcomes.
Child Abuse, Financial Crime, and Impaired Driving
Mr. Reichgelt said child abuse and impaired driving programs were part of a NOFO
intended to serve as a catch-all for VOCA-eligible program types. He said the
designations constituted funding for the second of three 12-month periods for each of
the five programs.
Ms. Hora requested an explanation of the numbers in the child abuse programs’
performance reports; she said they appeared to be lower than expected.
Megan Mahoney, representing Heartland Alliance, said that a major challenge is finding
licensed clinicians who will accept the comparatively low-paying therapist positions in
these programs. Often, the positions go unfilled, causing delays in program
implementation and operation.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY16 designations for the
Statewide Domestic Violence Hotline and child abuse and impaired driving programs and
the recommended FFY17 designations for transitional housing programs, as described in
the memo. Mr. Olson seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.

 8/14/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 7

Adjourn
Motion: Director Baldwin moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Kocerka seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
11:33 a.m.

 