ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION
AUTHORITY

Meeting Notice
Budget Committee
Wednesday, October 25, 2017, at 1:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois, 60606

300 West Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Phone: (312) 793-8550
Fax: (312) 793-8422
TDD: (312) 793-4170
http://www.icjia.state.il.us

Agenda

_______________________________
_______________________________

Budget Committee

Cynthia Hora
Chair

Hon. Amy Campanelli
Sheriff Tom Dart
Hon. Kimberly Foxx

►

Call to Order and Roll Call

1.

Minutes of the September 28, 2017 Budget Committee Meeting: p.2

2.

Community-Based Violence Intervention and Prevention: p.9

3.

Victims of Crime Act: p.21

4.

Justice Assistance Grants: p.50

5.

Violence Against Women Act: p.53

6.

Violence Against Women Act – Sexual Assault Services Programs: p.56

7.

Public Comment

►

Old Business

►

New Business

►

Adjourn

Cynthia Hora
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Leo Schmitz
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff
_______________________________
_______________________________

Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority
Elizabeth Robb
Chair
Patrick Delfino
Vice-Chair
John Maki
Executive Director

This meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent
State and Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special
accommodations should contact by telephone or letter Mr. John Klaer, Office of Administrative Services, Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 West Adams Street, Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois 60606 (telephone
312/793-8550). TDD services are available at 312-793-4170.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
September 28, 2017, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 10:08 a.m. General
Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Jim O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
Schmitz
Paula Wolff

Present Telephone
X

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

Other Authority Member Attendance
Present Telephone
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes*
X
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy
Peoria Police Chief Jerry Mitchell
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
X
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director Beverly Walker
Jennifer Vollen-Katz*
X

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Chair Robb appointed Ms. Barnes and Ms. Vollen-Katz to the Budget Committee for the
duration of the meeting.
ICJIA Program Specialist Maureen Brennan
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
Rick Krause, representing the Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Program Supervisor Mary Ratliff (via teleconference)
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis
Other Authority staff members and guests

Opening Remarks
Associate Director Givens said that an emergency Budget Committee meeting would be
held in conjunction with the Strategic Opportunities Committee meeting scheduled for
October 25, 2017. The purpose of that meeting will be to address designation
recommendations resulting from recent Notices of Funding Opportunity (NOFOs) that
could not be processed in time to be placed on the agenda for today’s meeting. An agenda
and materials will be forthcoming.

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

1. Minutes of the July 27, 2017, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes of the July 27, 2017, Budget
Committee Meeting. This motion included a request to change the word “dismissed,” as
used in the last sentence of the fourth paragraph on Page 8 of the minutes to
“disregarded,” so that the corrected sentence reads (correction in italics):
“…the recommended designation to the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice for its
Youth Offender Re-Entry Program in the amount of $91,800 should be disregarded.”
Ms. Kramer requested that a correction be made on Page 7 of the minutes in the first
sentence of the first paragraph. The correction should read (correction in italics):
“Executive Director Maki said these JAG designation recommendations were the first
resulting from the GATA-compliant competitive process.”
Ms. Hora requested that a correction be made on Page 4 of the minutes in the second
sentence of the last paragraph. The correction should read (correction in italics):
“Staff recommended that approximately $6,700,000 to $7,200,000 be made
available…”
Ms. Hora requested that two corrections be made on Page 5 of the minutes in the second
full sentence of the first paragraph. The correction should read (correction in italics):
“He said the funding opportunity would be be open to public and not-for-profit
entities…”
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.
2. Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Councils
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated September 28, 2017,
regarding State Fiscal Year 2018 Funding for the Illinois Family Violence Coordinating
Councils (IFVCC). He said that there are 14 local family violence coordinating councils
that offer local forums to share and discuss information promoting a coordinated response
to family violence in communities. Each council is judicially led by the chief judge or a
judge appointed by the chief judge. A separate fiscal agent administers the annual
allocation of funds. Funds are used to support a part-time local council coordinator for
each council and coordination of committee work, training, travel, and other related
activities as determined by the Local Council Planning/Steering Committees.
Planning/Steering Committees and local council coordinators establish the goals and
objectives for the upcoming year. All local council activities are approved by the Illinois
Family Violence Coordinating Council. Staff recommends that $439,000 in SFY18

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council general revenue funds be designated to
the entities described in the table on Page 2 of the memo.
Ms. Vollen-Katz said that it is important that the entire criminal justice system be
represented in these coordinating councils. Public defenders and others who represent the
interests of the accused should be included in order to achieve a full view of the justice
system. She noted that the list of Implementing Agencies and Fiscal Agents in the table
on Page 2 of the memo did not specify all individual council partners.
Ms. Ratliff said that most councils include all of these elements; law enforcement,
prosecution, defense, victim advocates, etc.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended SFY18 IFVCC designations,
with the caveat the she would not do so again without first knowing who all of the
stakeholders are for each designation. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
3. Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated September 28, 2017,
regarding the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA). He said that the
Department of Justice’s Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending,
Registering, and Tracking (SMART Office) provided a report to Illinois outlining areas
in which Illinois was not in compliance with SORNA. One of the principal areas in need
of improvement was Illinois State Police’s (ISP) lack of an electronic records
management system for electronic collection, exchange and posting of registrant
information. Since that time, SORNA funds have been used by ISP to obtain an
electronic records management system and scan the backlog of paper records submitted
to the ISP Sex Offender Registration and Notification Unit. In August 2016, ICJIA
designated the entire FFY16 SORNA award of $259,576 to ISP for staff overtime to scan
the remaining backlog of paper records. While the project was successful in eliminating
the backlog, at the end of the period of performance, $214,904 of the funds remained
unspent. ICJIA has received the FFY17 SORNA award in the amount of $248,403. Staff
requests permission to issue one Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) using both
FFY16 and FFY17 funds for awards to law enforcement agencies for the procurement of
equipment to facilitate the electronic submission of sex offender documents to ISP.
Equipment would include scanners, computers, servers and related peripherals. The
timeline for this NOFO is described in the table on Page 2 of the memo.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended use of FFY16 and FFY17
SORNA funds to support the NOFO described above. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion.
Ms. Vollen-Katz said that it appeared that SORNA funds have very limited uses and that
they are primarily for supporting compliance with federal law. She said that she did not
think that the Authority Board had a thorough understanding of the limitations of
SORNA funding.

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

Ms. Hora expressed concern that SORNA funds might be used by the grantees for
purposes unrelated to SORNA. She said that she wanted to see more information on
SORNA funding and its possible uses by grantees before voting on the recommendation.
General Counsel Weis said that perhaps staff could provide an overview of SORNA to
the Authority Board at an Authority Regular Meeting. She said that discussions regarding
funding strategies are perhaps better suited to forums such as the Strategic Opportunities
Committee or the Authority Regular Meetings.
Ms. Hora said that she was not comfortable issuing the NOFO for the use of FFY16 and
FFY17 funds simultaneously. She noted that the last SORNA designation to the ISP was
for $259,576 and $214,904 went unspent. She suggested splitting the NOFO; one for
FFY16 funds and then a subsequent one for FFY17 funds, as doing so might allow for
tighter control of the use of the funds and ensure that they are used for SORNA-related
purposes. At the least, the NOFO needs to be specific about allowable uses of SORNA
funds.
Authority Chair Robb said that discussions about strategic uses of fund should happen at
the board level, not the Budget Committee level. Staff should be rusted regarding the
allowability of their funding recommendations.
Ms. Brennan said that the NOFO would be publicized via the Illinois Sheriff’s
Association, the Illinois Association of Chiefs of Police, existing grantees, and traditional
information outlets.
Ms. Hora offered a friendly amendment to the motion: The motion to approve the
recommended use of FFY16 and FFY17 SORNA funds to support the NOFO should
come with the caveat that the Strategic Opportunities Committee will review and evaluate
the SORNA fund spending plan.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote with a recusal by Mr. O’Grady.
4. Violence Against Women Act - Arrest Grants to Encourage Arrest and
Enforcement of Protection Orders Program
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated September 28, 2017,
regarding the State Fiscal Year 2018 Funding Adjustments for Violence Against Women
Act Arrest Grants to Encourage Arrest and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program
(VAWA A) for the Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council (IFVCC). He said that
in 2014, the IFVCC under the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority was
awarded renewal funding of $900,000 from the U.S. Department of Justice Office (DOJ)
for the VAWA A Program. The grant period was originally from October 2014 through
September 30, 2017, but the period was extended by the DOJ to September 30, 2018.
Macon Resources was designated $25,075 in SFY15 VAWA A funds and $24,981 in
SFY16 VAWA A funds for their IFVCC program. Blue Tower Solutions was designated

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

$17,000 in SFY17 VAWA A funds and took over the implementing agency and fiscal
agent roles for the program on April 1, 2017. Staff now recommends designating an
additional $35,000 to Blue Tower Solutions to allow the program to continue through
September 30, 2018.
Ms. Ratliff said that while this program does not address defense, victim services, or
prosecution directly, it does support experts and advocates.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended use of FFY14 VAWA A funds
to support the Blue Tower Solutions designation increase described above. Ms. Barnes
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
5. Victims of Crime Act
Designation Reductions
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated September 28, 2017,
regarding the FFY15 and FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Plan Adjustments. He
called attention to the chart on Pages 1 and 2 of the memo describing funds recently
returned to the ICJIA. Staff recommended that these funds be made available for future
programming.
Mr. Reichgelt said that the reason why so many programs returned funds is because their
direct grants from the ICJIA were terminated early. The grants were terminated early
because these programs are now supported by ICJIA grant funds passed through the
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault, the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence, or the Child Advocacy Centers of Illinois as a result of the new competitive
NOFO process which called for uniform grant start and end dates. There were no gaps in
the provision of services.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended reductions of FFY15 VOCA
designations. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
Recommended Designations
Associate Director Givens called attention to the list of recommended designations in the
table at the bottom of Page 2 of the memo. He said that in keeping with the priorities
identified by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee, staff recommends designating
$1,107,514 in FFY16 funds to the entities as described in the table to support services to
victims of child abuse, financial crimes, and impaired driving. He called attention to a
misprint in the first full line on Page 4 of the memo. The correction should read
(correction in italics):
“The total dollars requested from the received applications: $3,739,450.”

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 7

Mr. Reichgelt said that most of the applications that were not approved for funding were
disqualified because they did not meet specific criteria. He also said that since these are
new programs adjustments will likely be made to the reporting parameters.
Ms. Hora expressed concern that it was difficult to support the dollar amounts of the
recommended designations without more information.
General Counsel Weis said that the staff VOCA attorney had reviewed all designation
recommendations and that the dollar amounts were reasonable. Programs recommended
for funding all exhibited adherence to best and/or evidence-based practices.
Ms. Wolff said that the substance of the programming is an issue better left to the
Authority Board to discuss and should not be the concern of the Budget Committee.
Associate Director Givens said that staff would review these programs as they progress
and make recommendations regarding how much money they should receive in
subsequent years of funding, or even if they should continue at all.
Staff provided details regarding each program that was recommended for a VOA
designation.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY16 VOCA designations.
Ms. Barnes seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Campanelli moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
11:51 a.m.

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 1

ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY

300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM
To:

Budget Committee Members

From:

Kevin Givens, Associate Director, Federal & State Grants Unit

Date:

October 25, 2017

Subject:

CB-VIP Designations
_____

This memo describes designations for the SFY 2018 Community-Based Violence Intervention
and Prevention program.
RECOMMENDED DESIGNATIONS
Staff recommends designating $6,840,000 in SFY18 funds to the following entities to support
programs that combat community violence. Please note the maximum mount for each agency is
likely to be reduced during the pre-award process.

Applicant
Alternatives, Inc.
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metropolitan Chicago
Bright Star Community Outreach, Inc.
Cabrini Green Legal Aid
Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago
Children's Home + Aid
Gary Comer Youth Center
Heartland Alliance
Illinois Association of Juvenile Justice Councils
Lake County Crisis Center/DBA A Safe Place
Northeast DuPage Family and Youth Services
Pilsen Wellness Center Inc.
Rockford Metropolitan Agency for Planning
Springfield Urban League

Maximum Amount
$267,700
$336,832
$943,416
$238,948
$611,489
$114,621
$890,462
$856,325
$992,025
$518,085
$128,216
$300,000
$250,757
$391,124

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 2

RECOMMENDED DESIGNATIONS CONTIGENT ON AVAILABLE FUNDING
Each entity listed below would only receive an award if there are funds available once award
amounts are reduced for the agencies designated above. Please see the attached Grant
Recommendation Report for more information.

Applicant
Lawrence Hall
South Shore Drill Team and Performing Arts Ensemble
Westside Health Authority
Universal Family Connections

Maximum Amount
$ 231,164
$ 117,823
$ 968,106
$ 348,648

Funding Information: The purpose of this Notice of Funding Opportunity is to fund community-based
violence intervention and prevention services.
 Convene or expand an existing community coalition to engage service providers, governmental
agencies (local and/or statewide agencies), law enforcement, faith-based, and general community
members to ensure that service providers and all potential participants are aware of violence
prevention resources available in community; develop collaborative partnerships to ensure that
clients’ immediate needs are met; and provide pro-social activities for the community.
 Educate the public about program services through wide distribution and various types of
program materials, public presentations and awareness events.
 Provide at least one of the four following direct services:
o Street Intervention/Interruption-Active Outreach and Engagement – These programs
provide crisis intervention and de-escalation of high stress situations to at-risk youth and
young adults.
o Counseling and Therapy – These developmentally and culturally appropriate therapeutic
services are provided by a mental health professional.
o Case Management – Case management approaches that are more effective at long-term
client retention and developing trust between agency and youth/families require actively
engaging participants (i.e., active reaching out, meeting youth/families in the home,
community engagement).
o Youth Development – Engaging young people to develop their emotional, physical,
social, and intellectual selves provides opportunities for youth to practice conflict
resolution and prosocial life skills.
The total dollars request from the received applications: $31,342,764
Number of applications received: 71
Location of designated programs: Southern Region (1); Central Region (1); Northern Region (1); Collar
Counties (2); Cook County (11); Multi-Region (2)
Type of Service Proposed: Community coalition; Public awareness; Direct Services (Street
Intervention/Interruption, Counseling/Therapy, Case Management, and Youth Development)
Number of services proposed: 6
Number of designations approved: 18, including four contingent designations
Balance of funds available for future designations for this scope of services; None.

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 3

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community-Based Violence Intervention and Prevention

Funding Source:

SFY 2018 General Revenue Funds: $6,840,000

Agency Budgets:

See table

Request Type:

Notice of Funding Opportunity #1582-352

Program Description
Community violence includes a wide range of crimes, such as murder, gun violence, interpersonal and domestic
violence, sexual violence, robbery, and aggravated or simple assault and battery. Violence is important to
address because experiencing or witnessing this type of violence can increase fear and distrust among
community members, and often leads to a feeling that communities are unsafe. It can also result in posttraumatic stress disorder and other short- and long-term negative outcomes for individuals and communities.
Locations that experience high levels of violence also often experience high concentrations of other social
inequalities, including poverty and low social capital. Social capital is important to neighborhood cohesion as it
represents the networks individuals depend on to help them meet basic needs, such as employment and model
civil engagement. These networks are where norms of reciprocity are communicated
Over the last 40 years, great advancements have been made in the field of violence prevention. Violence is now
seen as a learned behavior that can be addressed through focused attention on increasing protective factors and
reducing risk factors. Protective factors, such as positive connections to family and friends, can foster a
resilience to violence, while risk factors, such as exposure to violence, create a vulnerability to violence Both
risk and protective factors exist within the individual, peer, family, community, and societal domains.
Goals
Each program must complete the following:





Convene or expand an existing community coalition to engage service providers, governmental
agencies (local and/or statewide agencies), law enforcement, faith-based, and general community
members to ensure that service providers and all potential participants are aware of violence
prevention resources available in community; develop collaborative partnerships to ensure that
clients’ immediate needs are met; and provide pro-social activities for the community.
Educate the public about program services through wide distribution and various types of program
materials, public presentations and awareness events.
Provide at least one of the four following direct services:
o Street Intervention/Interruption-Active Outreach and Engagement – These programs provide
crisis intervention and de-escalation of high stress situations to at-risk youth and young
adults.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 4

o Counseling and Therapy – These developmentally and culturally appropriate therapeutic
services are provided by a mental health professional.
o Case Management – Case management approaches that are more effective at long-term client
retention and developing trust between agency and youth/families require actively engaging
participants (i.e., active reaching out, meeting youth/families in the home, community
engagement).
o Youth Development – Engaging young people to develop their emotional, physical, social,
and intellectual selves provides opportunities for youth to practice conflict resolution and
prosocial life skills.
Priorities
When ICJIA absorbed the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority in 2012, ICJIA’s enabling statute was
expanded to include additional responsibilities related to violence prevention. These responsibilities include
distributing grants to community and statewide organizations, other units of local and state government, and
public school districts that address violence prevention in a comprehensive and collaborative manner.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA anticipates recommending funding past one year, contingent on future state fiscal year appropriations and
satisfactory performance.
Budget Detail
Category
Personnel and Fringe
Travel
Equipment
Supplies
Contractual
Indirect Costs
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

Maximum
$ 3,637,940
$ 130,812
$
23,031
$ 257,612
$ 2,355,197
$ 435,408
$ 6,840,000

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 5

Designations - Note: The amount for each agency is likely to be reduced during the remaining pre-award
process.
Unduplicated
Maximum
Applicant
Geographic Area
Number
Amount
Alternatives, Inc.
Chicago (All neighborhoods)
50
$ 267,700
Alternatives will reduce the risk of violence by building conflict resolution skills and employment experience while
fostering a more supportive surrounding environment. The program will use restorative justice practices as effective
ways of building the knowledge and skills of its youth leaders and its youth constituents across the dispersed network of
homeless shelters and transitional living centers.
The target population is young adults, 18 to 25, who are homeless or unstably housed and living in transitional living
centers and shelters in the City of Chicago.
Chicago (All municipalities and
neighborhoods); DuPage (Aurora)
Big Brothers Big Sisters of
and Lake (Waukegan)
270
$ 336,832
Metropolitan Chicago
Big Brothers Big Sisters will provide community-based mentoring and site-based mentoring programs. Mentoring
programming provides youth with positive adult relationships and a non-parental figure with whom they share more
peer-like relations. Positive relationships with adults and peers are vital to the development of youth, helping them to
overcome trauma and empowering them to navigate life's decisions in a beneficial manner. Adults that provide a positive
mentoring experience to youth can help them build and repair relations with other adults and peers, strengthening their
growth and decision-making skills.
The target population is youth ages 7-19 who have moderate to high exposure to external risk factors (which include
poverty, children with an incarcerated parent, previous exposure to violence, and/or children living in single-parent
homes) and moderate to high personal need (poor family relationships, poor academic progress, or misconduct).
Bright Star Community
Outreach, Inc.
Chicago (Bronzeville)
265
$ 943,416
Bright Star will provide Case Management will be provided through the Truancy Education and Mentoring (TEAM)
program, which serves youth ages 13 to 18 that are chronically truant, suspended or expelled from school, or are at
especially high risk for violent behavior or victimization. TEAM provides a safe, productive environment for youth to
receive help completing assignments missed during their suspensions, along with counseling services aimed at
addressing issues that resulted in suspension or expulsion. TEAM is intended to improve student attendance, increase
academic performance, strengthen families, and reduce truancy. Counseling will also be provided to high-risk and
justice-involved youth. The GREAT Schools and Families program was developed for middle school youth and their
families to decrease violence by promoting youth academic and social competence and improve parental skills, support,
and involvement with the schools. The program includes 16 sessions and is delivered through multiple family groups (46 families per group). The intervention was found to have positive effects not only for participating youth and families,
but also an “ecological” effect on school-level aggression because the decreasing aggressive behavior among youth
participating in the program had an impact on the behavior of other students in the same grade. Multisystemic Therapy
(MST) targets youth, ages 12-17, who exhibit criminal and non-criminal violent, delinquent, and antisocial behaviors.
MST provides services, delivered by therapists, to youth and their families in order to restructure the home, school, and
community environments. The aim of MST is to decrease problem youth behaviors, and to promote the development and
utilization of productive and prosocial youth behaviors. Findings from randomized controlled trials show that MST
reduces short- and long-term criminal behaviors, as well as out-of-home placements for serious juvenile offenders in
comparison to treatment as usual.
The target population is chronically truant, suspended, or expelled youth in middle and high school (and their families).

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 6

Cabrini Green Legal Aid
Chicago (all neighborhoods)
50
$ 238,948
Through the Supporting Successful Transition Program, Cabrini Green Legal Aid will serve at-risk youth leaving the
Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice to provide ongoing legal services (representation at parole hearing and criminal
records relief), social supports, accompaniment, and intensive case management through successful completion of
aftercare and the end of their involvement with the juvenile justice system.
The target population is youth who are returning home to Cook County from IDJJ, whose host sites are primarily in the
City of Chicago.
Catholic Charities of the
Chicago (Austin, Humboldt Park,
Archdiocese of Chicago
Garfield Park) and Waukegan
120
$ 611,489
Catholic Charities will serve youth, young adults, and their families who are at risk of or have been impacted by street
level violence with trauma informed, strengths-based mental health services, including intensive case management and
counseling/therapy, to ensure a systemic approach to meeting the needs of the clients. Access to services, including
family engagement and support as well as assistance with alleviating practical barriers through case management, will
result in enhanced safety in the community. It will also allow children and families to increase their ability to function so
that opportunities for youth to make unhealthy choices will decline. Individual work with youth and young adults also
involves parental support and family sessions as needed.
The target population is youth and young adults, specifically those who are identified as being at heightened risk, those
who engage in high risk behavior or violence, and those who have been victims of street-level violence.
Chicago (Englewood and W.
Children's Home + Aid
Englewood)
50
$ 114,621
Children’s Home + Aid will provide a therapeutic response with intervention and outreach to address the problem of
community violence in Englewood and West Englewood, and will target youth most likely to be involved with violence
as a perpetrator or a victim: those who have prior justice system involvement, youth who are disconnected from school
and work, and youth who are coping with symptoms of trauma. This program will provide Trauma-Focused Cognitive
Behavioral Therapy to help them manage their symptoms of trauma and fully participate in school and pro-social
activities. They also need help resolving crises and persistent support to engage with school, so this program will also
provide intensive, individualized case management. The program will provide mentoring and pro-social learning for atrisk youth. The youth frequently ask their mentor to accompany them to school meetings, help them reconnect with
school, attend court, and communicate with probation officers.
The target population is youth ages 13-18 with prior justice system involvement, be disconnected from school, or be at
risk of disconnecting from school due to chronic truancy or severe behavioral/disciplinary problems.

Gary Comer Youth Center
Chicago (Greater Grand Crossing)
400
$ 890,462
Program Activities: Out-of-School (OST) Programs for Ages 8-14 (middle school) are designed to increase decision
making skills and responsible behaviors in school, personal, and community interactions. Activities include programs for
middle school youth afterschool, on school holidays and Saturdays. The youth center will offer a full day of Saturday
programming for this age group and expand trips that provide an escape from the violence the youth face, spark new
passions/educational pursuits, and provide experiences they are not aware exist (or feel are accessible to them). Gary
Comer will also provide camps and specialty programs during days off of school, during which time youth can engage in
a wide variety of programming, including fitness and recreation programs, dance programming and video production
classes. These programs are a gateway to other programming, including academic supports. The Teen Empowerment
Program for Ages 14-18 programming includes teen employment opportunities, mature field trips, teen pro-social events
and more advanced programs in media, sound engineering, visual and preforming arts. Social Development Groups will
provide group mentoring for teen boys, teen girls and LGBTQ members. Programming focuses on managing positive

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 7

relationships (peers, family, authorty figures, and community) and pro-social skills. Individual Social Emotional
Coaching/Mentorship provides a team of caring adults assigned to all teens in the youth center. Coaches will serve as a
person to personally connect teens to programs and services offered by Gary Comer Youth Center and partners for
school, employment, legal advocacy (if needed), social emotional and trauma counseling services, and other areas.
Coaches will check in with the youth twice a month and will track youth progress.
The target population is… school aged youth (8-18).

Heartland Alliance
Chicago (North Lawndale)
350
$
856,325
Heartland Alliance will implement a program that offers street outreach and engagement, transitional jobs, and Cognitive
Behavior Therapy (CBT) program targeting young adults at highest risk of being victims or perpetrators of gun violence.
Participants will meet with coaches for employment and life coaching, family/child relationship support, education goal
setting, job search assistance, and to identify and address ongoing needs and challenges. After completing their
transitional jobs training, participants can access coaching and case management support for an additional six months.
Continued support is critical to sustaining behavior changes, offering support during difficult experiences, and helping
participants transition and stabilize in unsubsidized employment. Additional group sessions will focus on career pathing,
parenting, asset building, and conflict management, among others. Last, a clinician and a READI coach or outreach
worker will co-facilitate group CBT sessions, using the University of Cincinnati’s CBT-IMT curriculum and Seeking
Safety.
The target population are young adult males (over the age of 18) at high risk of involvement in gun violence and likely
have some history of criminal justice involvement.
St. Clair, Saline, Marion,
Illinois Association of Juvenile
Jefferson, Jackson & Franklin
Justice Councils
Counties
750
$ 992,025
Illinois Association of Juvenile Justice Councils will provide Trauma Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TFCBT),
case management, and youth development for youth with moderate to high risk for criminal behavior or violence who do
not meet criteria for Juvenile Redeploy. TFCBT is a 16 session individual treatment that combines cognitive, behavioral,
and family therapy. The project will utilize Cognitive Behavioral Intervention for Trauma in the Schools (CBITS) which
is a brief trauma-focused intervention that can address the needs of victims of violence and other traumas. This
treatment can be conducted by school mental health providers. Youth will also be provided Multisystemic Therapy
(MST), Functional Family Therapy (FFT), and Aggression Replacement Training (ART). All of these programs target
the reduction of youth criminal behaviors, reduction of antisocial behaviors such as drug abuse, and decrease out-ofhome placements. Youth Development includes two specific programs: Botvin Life Skills (LST) program will be
implemented with youth that show moderate to severe risk for future violence, and will be provided within the school
setting either during or after the school day by teachers or other support staff within the school. For individuals that
dropout of school will be connected to Youthbuild (YB) program, which support life skills, independent living skills, and
vocational training. Lastly, Individual & Family Case Management (IFCM) will be provided. IFCM activities will be
provided by Family Resource Developers that have lived experiences navigating the justice system or mental health
system for themselves or a family member. IFCM supports will provide outreach and engagement within the community
and client’s homes. These individuals will help individuals and families connect with the community, develop stability,
obtain employment, develop skills, and build support networks.
The target population are youth and young adults ages 14-24 who are identified as being at heightened risk for
committing violent acts or who have engaged in high risk behavior or violence.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 8

Lake County Crisis Center/DBA
A Safe Place
Lake County (Waukegan)
225
$ 518,085
Programming will include Individual Counseling (Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and Eye Movement Desensitization
and Reprocessing (EMDR) trauma counseling) to be provided at five middle schools and three high schools. Youth
Development services will include heathy relationships education and weekly groups focused on psychoeducation, life
skills, and trauma. A case manager will ensure that students can access services that the student needs, including those
that address their physical, mental, economic, social well-being, and educational needs. The Case Manager will facilitate
students into the program’s services and other needed services.
The target population is youth, grades 6-12, from five middle schools and three high schools.
Northeast DuPage Family and
Youth Services
Addison (DuPage County)
100
$ 128,216
Northeast DuPage Family and Youth Services will provide community mental health services to adolescents and their
families through counseling, case management, and youth development activities. Clinical framework is rooted in
Family Systems Theory and Metaframeworks. Training for this framework includes Trauma Focused Cognitive
Behavioral Therapy (TF-CBT), Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR), Structured Psychotherapy
for Adolescents Responding to Chronic Stress (SPARCS), Functional Family Therapy (FFT), Multi-Systemic Therapy
(MST), and Motivational Interviewing (MI). The framework used is dependent on the type of intervention determined to
best meet their needs based on. In addition to trauma-based clinical interventions, expanded services will include
individual and group interventions on anxiety, social-emotional skills, and, when warranted, girl-specific issues. These
include the SOAR Program (Students Overcoming Anxiety Reactively) which teaches youth the root causes of anxiety
and techniques that can reduce excessive worry and its physical symptoms. The Lions Quest Skills for Adolescence SEL
program helps middle school students cope with the physical, emotional, and social challenges of early adolescence. The
Attention, Focus and Plan for Success program helps youth (grades 6-9) build skills such as impulse control, emotional
control, flexible thinking, working memory, self-monitoring, planning and prioritizing, task initiation, and organization.
Last, Community Connections is a 12-week adjustment program that teaches youth interpersonal skills and connects
them to civic engagement and volunteer opportunities in the local area.
The target population are youth, young adults, and families as determined by a validated risk assessment tool.
63 (counseling/case
Chicago (Gage Park Lower West
management); and
Side [Pilsen], and South Lawndale
1,000 (youth
$ 300,000
Pilsen Wellness Center Inc.
[Little Village])
development)
Program Activities: Pilsen Wellness Center will provide counseling, case management, and youth development
strategies to mitigate the effects of existing trauma, while providing youth and their families with concrete resources and
skills that will increase community resources and support around violence prevention in the future. Case management
and counseling are provided by psychotherapists to help encourage engagement in services and relationship-building.
The psychotherapist will conduct at least one home visit. Cognitive-Behavioral Intervention for Trauma in Schools
(CBITS) will serve as the counseling component of this program. This model identifies children who have been exposed
to violence and show symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The program will take an active approach to
case management in which the team psychotherapists encourage engagement in services and relationship building. The
LifeSkills Training (LST) curriculum, the youth development component of the program, is a classroom-based, middle
school substance abuse prevention program to prevent teenage drug and alcohol abuse, adolescent tobacco use, violence
and other risk behaviors.
The target population is middle and high school youth.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 9

Rockford Metropolitan Agency
for Planning
Winnebago (Rockford)
30
$ 250,757
Program Activities: This is a trauma-focused approach targeting criminal justice-involved youth and youth identified as
high risk for future justice-involvement (ages 11-16 including their families) who have experienced trauma due to
violence. The proposed service delivery system will feature principles of positive youth development as well as Balanced
and Restorative Justice. Youth and families who are in crisis or at immediate risk will have access to crisis services
through YSN's Crisis Intervention Answering Service. The goal is to de-escalate the immediate situation and develop a
plan to meet the short-term needs to ensure the safety of the youth, family, and other involved parties. Youth will receive
Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TF-CBT), a hybrid treatment model that utilizes both cognitivebehavioral and social learning theory principles to help traumatized youth more effectively manage their thoughts and
feelings related to their trauma experience, examine and change inaccurate or unhelpful cognitions, and build skills to
relax, regulate emotions, and enhance safety. The program will also work with youth’s non-offending parent or caregiver
on building parenting skills, enhancing safety, growth, family communication and increasing supportive parent-child
communication. The program must address the particular stages of development and incorporate broad, holistic
approaches to healing youth rather than focusing on a single problem, and therefore offers a variety of options to allow
participants to choose services that align with their personal interests. Options include the following: Rockford Police
Department’s Police Athletic Club (PAC), a youth crime prevention program that utilizes mentorship and educational,
athletic, and recreational activities to foster trust and understanding between police officers and youth. Through PAC,
officers will promote the prevention of juvenile crime and violence by building relationships between kids, cops and
community, which research suggests decreases risk factors and increases protective factors for violence. The partnership
with the Center for Nonviolence and Conflict Transformation (CNCT), a movement to help transform inner-cities that
have been affected by gang and drug-related violence, will allow interested youth to participate in The Mobile Tech Lab
Project, a program that teaches at-risk youth skills in computer literacy, music education and recording, entrepreneurship
development, and nonviolence leadership development. Computer literacy education will teach youth web development
(coding), and Music and Recording participants will learn skills including an introduction to computerized recording in a
real studio. Leadership Development includes Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s Six Aspects of Nonviolent Leadership
Development. Another option for youth will be participation in the Youth Services Network (YSN) mindful movement
strategies such as yoga, which has been shown to help traumatized individuals tolerate physical and sensory experiences
associated with fear and helplessness, as well as increasing their emotional awareness and affect tolerance. Youth can
also participate in a life skills program and financial literacy program. Comprehensive Case Management Services will
be offered to youth and family on site in the community at home, school, or a location of their choice to encourage
improved engagement with staff. VIP team members will have a presence in client homes, schools, and neighborhood
Strong Houses, and will accompany them to court, medical appointments, and anywhere else they may go where VIP can
serve as an advocate or support system to help youth succeed. The project addresses cultural competence for youth with
special needs, including those who are pregnant and parenting; gay, lesbian, transgender, or questioning their sexual
orientation, and; physically, emotionally or developmentally challenged. Trauma-informed therapy will be used in all
cases.
The target population is male youth between the ages of 11-16 who have experienced trauma due to violence.
Springfield Urban League
Springfield
100
$ 391,124
Springfield Urban League will provide will apply the Cure Violence model. The model prevents violence through a 3prong approach: (1) Interrupt Transmission – early detection of an individual’s potential for violence; (2) Identify and
change the thinking of the highest potential transmitters; and (3) Change the group norms. Violence Interrupters will
implement the following strategies:
 Engage high-risk youth and young adults in the public places where they congregate, build a rapport with them,
and recruit them to participate in the program;
 Refer participants for case management, youth development, and supportive services;
 Identify potential violent incidents;
 Facilitate conflict mediation; and
 Contribute to changing group norms related to violence.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 10

Three types of events will be offered: Community Block Parties (designed to build relationships with the target
population, recruit participants, interrupt violent street activity, substitute peaceful activities for the duration of the event,
and facilitate relationship-building among neighbors who seldom interact due to fear and resentment; Safe Haven (these
monthly events occur during late-night hours when violence is most prevalent, and offers an opportunity to meet
representatives from social service agencies, gather information about the services they provide, sign-up for on-site
sessions about a variety of topics such as anger management, conflict resolution, employment, education, and/or
substance use); and Peace Summits (members of rival groups, emerging gang factions, and gang leaders are invited to
focus groups and small group sessions). Outreach Workers will provide case management services to assess the baseline
needs and strengths of individuals referred to the program and engage participants using Motivational Interviewing, an
evidence-based, client-centered counseling style that has been shown to be effective in eliciting behavior change by
helping individuals explore and resolve ambivalence. Outreach workers will also refer participants to supportive services
within the agency and/or at other agencies. Participants in the street intervention program will have the opportunity to
participate in the following youth development activities: Educational (tutoring, homework assistance, academic
enrichment, alternative school, GED preparation); Restorative Justice/Community Service/Service-Learning projects;
Workforce Development (occupational skills training leading to a credential, workforce readiness classes, job coaching,
employment placement); Personal Development (financial literacy classes, healthy relationships classes, goal-setting,
communication skills, leadership skills, computer literacy classes). One-on-one and group mentoring will also be
provided.
The target population are youth and young adults ages 14-26 who have a history of violent behavior, substance abuse,
and/or gang involvement.

Designations Contingent on Available Funding - Note: Each entity listed below would only receive an award
if there are funds available once award amounts are reduced for the agencies designated above.
Unduplicated
Maximum
Applicant
Geographic Area
Number
Amount
Lawrence Hall
Chicago (South Shore)
40
$ 231,164
Lawrence Hall will provide group and individual Trauma-focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy services to youth enrolled
in this program. The vast majority of these services will be individual appointments, and the length of service may vary
depending upon the individual characteristics of the youth. When feasible, group services will be offered and may focus on
shared learning with TFCBT, psychoeducation on their mental health needs, and prosocial skill development. Case
Management services will meet youth where they are, emotionally, developmentally and physically. After a formal
assessment, a youth-driven case plan will be developed that identify goals and action steps related to education,
employment, leisure time, family, relationship development, housing and justice system involvement. These action steps are
assigned to either the youth, case manager or youth’s support system (family, friends, teachers, mentors, etc.).
The target population is youth and youth adults, ages 14-26, who are involved in the juvenile justice system.
South Shore Drill Team &
Performing Arts
Ensemble
Chicago ( Greater Grand Crossing)
50
$ 117,823
South Shore Drill Team will provide twice-weekly performing arts training, a core curriculum of discussion groups and
special speakers, and counseling. South Shore Drill Team instructors help young people direct their ambition towards
developing short-term and long-term goals for performing and beyond. The core curriculum includes empirically-tested
elements (communication skills, actively listening, decision making) and traditional team discussion topics (teamwork,
conflict resolution, goal-setting, self-discipline, self-esteem, and overcoming adversity.) Team instructors use a repeating
12-month curriculum which is both age-appropriate and gender-based to facilitate discussions at rehearsals and when the
group travels. Mentors build on the core curriculum with additional activities and one-on-one mentoring. If necessary, the

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 11

Community Outreach Director or Social Worker will consult with school authorities at the participant’s school and link
youth to tutoring services.
The target population is youth age 8-18 who are at risk for involvement in gangs, drugs, and violence.
Westside Health
Authority
Chicago (Austin, Lawndale and Garfield Park)
150
$
968,106
Westside Health Authority will implement an enhanced supportive service model focused on reducing violence by
improving violent prone youth participants’ functioning and behavior, developing skills for productive living within the
community and engaging in behaviors that contribute to positive outcomes. Street Intervention and participant recruitment
will come from the violence reduction services call-ins and custom notifications in conjunction with Chicago Violence
Reduction Strategy/John Jay College. Case Management and Assessment will work with the participant to identify needs
and, if necessary, provide immediate basic needs including, clothing, food, hygiene kits, transportation, and access to
telephone and computers (not paid for by ICJIA funds). Once a comprehensive assessment is complete, the participant will
be offered a mix of job training/job assistance, mentoring, substance abuse counseling, and anger management counseling.
Job Readiness Training and job counseling services will include includes how to job interview, appropriate attire and
personal hygiene issues, timeliness and attendance, basic job search skills, communication with co-workers and managers,
and budgeting for work expenses. Participants that have not completed high school are encouraged to join GED classes held
at the WHA Community Technology Center. Once participants have completed job readiness training and counseling (if
needed), individuals will transition to job development and placement. With assistance, participants will be responsible for
submitting job applications, resumes, and interviewing for the position. Mentoring will be offered on an individual basis
once per week and in a group setting twice per week. Group activities are structured around 5 components: 1) Civic
Leadership, 2) Creative Expression, 3) Education, 4) Entrepreneurship, 5) Life Skills, and 6) Positive Interpersonal
Interactions. WHA can provide or refer participants for Substance Abuse counseling. The program offers comprehensive
assessments, prevention and psychosocial education, drug screening, and engagement of family support.
The target population is young men and women between the ages of 16-24 that have one or more of the following risk
factors: one or more arrests, have plead guilty to a crime, chronically truant, at risk of failing education, dropped out, exoffenders, homeless, substance users, gang affiliated, teen parent, ward of the state, and/or court mandated anger
management.
Chicago (Englewood, West Englewood,
Washington Heights, Auburn Gresham, Markham,
Universal Family
Harvey, Garfield Ridge and Roseland)
1,500
$ 348,648
Connections
Universal Family Connections will provide a variety of services to reduce gang membership and connect at-risk children,
youth, and young adults to positive opportunities. Street-level intervention will incorporate the Boston Community Centers'
Streetworkers Program along with education and supportive services treatment. The Boston Program provides advocacy for
gang members in the courts (when appropriate), helps the probation department with supervision, mediates disputes and
gang truces, and refers gang members and their families to existing government and community programs.
The program will use Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TF-CBT) evidence-based programming and the Trauma-Focused
Structured Psychotherapy for Adolescents Responding to Chronic Stress (SPARCS) to help reduce negative emotional and
behavioral acts born from experiencing traumatic events and train parents to cope with the family’s emotional distress and
develop skills that support their children utilizing the SPARCS (Structured Psychotherapy for Adolescents Responding to
Chronic Stress) Program. Case Management will be provided to help ensure participants fully understand their legal system
involvement, any resources available to them as well as supportive services when it comes to their safety, security and
personal health. Youth development and life skills training uses standards from various youth development models, such as
Comprehensive Community-Based Youth Services (CCBYS), TeenREACH, Out of School Time, Youth Working for
Success, Mayoral Mentoring Program, Independent Living Program and the Transitional Living Program.
The target population is youth and young adults, aged 6-24 who have been traumatized by violence in their homes or
community.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 CBVIP SFY18
October 25, 2017
Page 12

Agency Budgets
The information below is the most recent publicly available, retrieved from Guidestar.com on October 4, 2017.
Entities are required to submit total agency budget information to the Internal Revenue Service via Form 990 15
days on the 5th month after the end of their fiscal year. The forms are submitted by the IRS to Guidestar.com
monthly, but totals may take two or more months to appear on the site.
Applicant
Alternatives, Inc.
Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metropolitan Chicago
Bright Star Community Outreach, Inc.
Cabrini Green Legal Aid
Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Chicago
Children's Home + Aid
Gary Comer Youth Center
Heartland Alliance
Illinois Association of Juvenile Justice Councils
Lake County Crisis Center/DBA A Safe Place
Lawrence Hall
Northeast DuPage Family and Youth Services
Pilsen Wellness Center Inc.
Rockford Metropolitan Agency for Planning (City of Rockford)
South Shore Drill Team & Performing Arts Ensemble
Springfield Urban League
Universal Family Connections
Westside Health Authority

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

Total Agency
End of Agency’s 990
Budget
Fiscal Year
$3,627,046.00
6/30/2016
$4,203,015.00
6/30/2016
$1,545,313.00
6/30/2015
$1,438,608.00
6/30/2016
$169,978,714.00
6/30/2016
$63,111,544.00
6/30/2016
$2,511,091.00
12/31/2015
$9,210,315.00
6/30/2015
$54,931.00
6/30/2015
$2,377,901.00
6/30/2016
$20,162,591.00
6/30/2015
$412,428.00
4/30/2015
$14,478,154.00
6/30/2015
$255,700,000.00
12/31/2017
$808,395.00
6/30/2016
$13,374,100.00
6/30/2015
$1,112,213.00
6/30/2015
$3,389,735.00
6/30/2016

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY

VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 1

300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM
To:

Budget Committee Members

From:

Kevin Givens, Associate Director, Federal & State Grants Unit

Date:

October 25, 2017

Subject:

FFY16 Victims of Crime Act Plan Adjustment
_____

This memo describes Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Plan Adjustments for federal fiscal year
2016.
RECOMMENDED DESIGNATIONS
Victims of Crime Act: Community Violence
In keeping with the priorities identified by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee, staff
recommends designating $7,444,293 in FFY16 funds to the following entities to support
programs that combat community violence. Please see the attached Grant Recommendation
Report for more information.
Agency Name
FFY16 Amount
Lester and Rosalie Anixter Center
$78,333
BUILD
$309,834
Center on Halsted
$150,000
Chicago Survivors
$999,994
Children’s Home and Aid
$75,000
DeKalb County Youth Service Bureau
$60,000
East Aurora School District
$689,763
Family Resources, Inc.
$105,830
*Hekteon Institute-Healing Hurt People
$999,506
Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago
$537,209
St. Anthony Hospital Foundation
$999,967
UCAN
$982,973
UIC - Cure Violence
$455,884
YMCA
$1,000,000
TOTALS
$7,444,293
*At the time that this memo was written, there were still unresolved issues regarding the contract
negotiation with the Hekteon Institute. Staff recommends that this designation be contingent on
those issues being resolved, hence no Grant Recommendation Report is included in the materials
for this designation. Staff will provide the report at the November 16, 2017 Budget Committee
meeting. Staff requests permission to rescind this designation if the contract issues are not
resolved by December 1, 2017.

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 2

VOCA Community Violence Program NOFO Summary:
Funding Information: The purpose of this Notice of Funding Opportunity is to fund direct services for
victims of community violence.
Program Design: Program Design Requirements
1. Core Direct Services. The applicant agency is expected to provide the following services:
a. Crisis Intervention
b. Case Management Refers to assisting victim(s) in identifying and achieving their needs and
goals; including but not limited to:
o Assessment and development of service plan to facilitate a client’s progress
o Information and referral to needed services
o Advocacy:
o Ongoing emotional support
c. Individual Counseling:
d. Therapy for minor victims of community violence.
An applicant agency interested in serving adult victims is expected to provide at least one of the following
additional services. Additional service can be provided in one of three ways: 1) An applicant agency can
provide the service itself with funds outlined in its proposed budget; 2) The applicant agency can subcontract
for specialized professional services at a rate not to exceed a reasonable market rate; or 3) The applicant
agency can provide a Letter of Partnership indicating a collaborative partner agency will provide the service
and request no funds. Letter(s) of Partnership must be included with the application.
a. Group Support: Refers to the coordination and provision of support group activities including
self-help, peer, and social support. The group activities can also include skill building
development to address physical, psychological and interpersonal impacts of victimization.
b. Therapy. Refers to intensive professional psychological/psychiatric treatment, including
evaluation of mental health needs, through evidence-informed, developmentally-appropriate
individual, family or group therapy that addresses the impact of the victimization. Therapy should
be trauma focused where available and provided by licensed professionals.
c. Substance Abuse Counseling- Refers to out-patient treatment for alcohol and drug abuse directly
related to the victimization. Treatment must be provided at a licensed treatment facility and/or by
a licensed or certified professional.
The total dollars request from the received applications: $ 11,535,952
Location of applicant programs: Central Region (1); Collar Counties (1); Cook County (8); Multi-Region
(2); Northern Region (2)
Type of Service Proposed: Crisis Intervention, Case Management, Individual Counseling, Therapy for minor
victims of community violence, Group support therapy and Substance Abuse Counseling
Number of services proposed: 6
Number of designations approved: 14
Balance of funds available for future designations for this scope of services; None, no future NOFO for this
scope is planned.

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 3

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence – Anixter Center

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $78,333.00 / Match: $20,113

Agency Budget:

$19,898,974 (preliminary)

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
The Lester and Rosalie Anixter Center, through its Chicago Hearing Society division, will provide direct
services to deaf, deaf/blind, and hard of hearing (d/DB/hoh) victims of violent crime living in Cook and Collar
counties of Illinois. A Victim Assistance Advocate and a Program Manager (who are both deaf women) will
provide communication access to services and cultural advocacy/support that d/DB/hoh victims of violent crime
need but are not available through other agencies, police departments, court systems, and other organizations
that serve victims
Program Activities
Anixter Center will provide core services of crisis intervention, case management (including assessment and
development of the service plan, information and referral to needed services, advocacy, and ongoing emotional
support) and individual counseling. The program also will provide group support through our program, as well
as domestic violence services through Anixter Center’s Domestic Violence Prevention and Intervention
Program, and substance use disorder counseling through Anixter Center’s Substance Abuse Treatment and
Counseling Program. Anixter Center will partner with Mt. Sinai Hospital for psychiatric and psychological
therapy associated with the personal impact of an act of violence, including trauma, and rape victim advocates
for services to individuals who are victims of sexual assault. Additionally, a stakeholder group will be formed to
focus on the needs of d/DB/hoh victims, the availability of communication access and support services, and the
degree to which law enforcement, judicial, and other community organizations are addressing the needs of this
population, as these relate to the process of reporting, investigating, and adjudicating crimes.
Goals
The program has set a goal of serving 40 d/DB/hoh victims in FY18. This includes 35 victims living in Cook
County and five victims living in the collar counties of Lake, DuPage, Will, and Kane. Because communication
accessible services are typically not available in other outlying counties, the center anticipates serving d/DB/hoh
victims living in other counties in Northern and North Central Illinois, as well. These 40 victims will receive
information and referral services, personal advocacy/accompaniment, economic assistance, crisis intervention,
individual counseling, and criminal advocacy/accompaniment. Ten victims also will receive assistance with
employers, creditors, landlords, or academic institutions; five victims will receive transportation assistance (bus
cards); 20 victims will receive interpreter services; five victims will receive employment assistance; 20 victims
will receive emergency financial assistance (emergency cards); five victims will receive housing advocacy; 15

1 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 4

victims will have group support access; and two victims will receive counseling via the center’s Substance
Abuse Treatment and Intervention Services.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.
Past Performance
N/A New Funding.
Budget Detail (VOCA)
Personnel (Victim Assistance Advocate (100% FTE) for direct services; Manager (25% FTE)
for oversight and supervision; and Office Managers (7% FTE) for clerical support, scheduling
appointments, and provide information to victims and others on VOCA- related services
Fringe Benefits (24.73% of Personnel to cover FICA, Unemployment, Worker’s Comp, and
Dental/Hospitalization)
Travel (Program staff mileage, and conferences in Maryland and in Springfield)
Supplies (Postage, Office, Program, Emergency Cards, and Bus Cards)
Contractual (Sign language interpreter services, cell phone, telephone, rent and utilities,
consultation costs, and training)
Total:

$50,284

$12,436
$5,441
$2,325
$7,847
$78,333

2 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 5

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

VOCA Community Violence / BUILD

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $309,834 / Match: $109,430

Agency Budget:

$3,540,520

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
BUILD’s Victims Services Program will directly serve an additional 160 youth—including 60 receiving crisis
intervention, 60 receiving intensive case management, 40 receiving individual clinical services (plus 10 families
receiving family/group therapy)—who are victims of or witnesses to crime or have otherwise been exposed to
violence-related trauma. Participants will be supported with comprehensive services that promote healing, foster
life-skills, and prevent high-risk behaviors that make youth vulnerable to violence. The program also reinforces
broader efforts to increase access to trauma-informed care across the Austin community, by enhancing and
expanding our referral network of providers and raising public awareness of trauma issues, the needs of crime
victims, and the resources available to help.
Program Activities
The program deploys first-responder Crisis Intervention Specialists (CIS) recruited from our communities to
provide immediate support to youth and families after a shooting or other violent act, and then connect victims
to our Case Managers for full intake and assessment, which generates a treatment plan for clinical support and
mentorship, as well as external referrals as needed for issues that are beyond project scope and/or BUILD’s inhouse capabilities. Additional crisis intervention support may be provided by our Intervention team, such as
conflict mediation, intensive mentoring, art therapy, court advocacy, or restorative justice peace circles; or by
BUILD’s therapists, who conduct home visits to engage parents, provide individual and group therapy,
reinforce well-being, and identify and address unmet needs. Services take place at BUILD’s campus, in the
community, and at our school partners.
Goals
The overall goal of the Victims Services Program is to reduce the negative impact of victim trauma in
Chicago’s Austin community by expanding BUILD’s capacity to provide crisis intervention, case management,
direct clinical support, and other related trauma-informed services. Specific outcomes include: 60 clients will
receive referrals to other victims service providers; 20 clients will receive advocacy/accompaniment to
emergency medical care; 30 clients will receive individual advocacy; 30 clients will receive assistance
intervening with an employer, creditor, landlord, or academic institution; 50 clients will receive child or
dependent care assistance; 60 clients will receive transportation assistance; 15 clients will receive interpreter
services; 50 clients will receive employment assistance (e.g., help creating a resume or completing a job
application); 20 clients will receive education assistance (e.g., help completing a GED or college application);

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 6

50 clients will receive economic assistance (e.g., help creating a budget, repairing credit, providing financial
education); 60 clients will receive crisis intervention; 40 clients will receive individual counseling; 5 clients will
receive emergency financial assistance; 5 clients will receive relocation assistance; 10 clients will receive
housing advocacy, or help with implementing a plan for obtaining housing (e.g., accompanying client to apply
for Section 8 housing); 15 clients will receive criminal advocacy/accompaniment; 50 clients provided with
therapy (30 in individual therapy; 20 in group therapy); staff will provide 832 therapy sessions; 38 staff will
receive training on trauma; 4 stakeholder meetings will be scheduled, with an average of 20 stakeholder group
attendees at each scheduled meeting.
Priorities
Programs funded under this Notice of Funding Opportunity fall under priorities #3 Core Services, #5
Underserved, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10 Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc
Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
The Authority expects to fund these programs for three years. The Authority will analyze each program to
ensure that each is meeting their goals and objectives in order to decide if the next two years of funding will be
granted.
Past Performance
N/A
Budget Detail
Personnel (Salaries & Wages)
Fringe Benefits
Travel
Supplies
Contractual Services & Subawards
Total Direct Costs
Indirect Costs* (see below)
Rate: 8 % Base: $193,604
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$170,560
$50,108
$20,188
$14,300
$39,190
$294,346
$15,488
$309,834

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 7

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / Center on Halsted

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $150,000; Match: $41,229

Agency Budget:

$6,903,253

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
Through direct services, advocacy, and education, the Anti Violence Project at Center on Halsted (COH) will
address community violence related to LGBTQ populations broadly and through the Youth Program, with a
focus on anti-violence services to historically disenfranchised youth.
Program Activities
Center on Halsted will provide crisis intervention services for LGBTQ victims of community violence by
providing: core crisis services; an anti-violence warm-line; behavioral health line; walk-in services; Traumainformed individual, group, and couple’s psychotherapy; substance abuse counseling; advocacy and systems
accompaniment; and educational/training opportunities.
Goals
The primary goal of this grant program is providing LGBTQ youth and adult victims of community violence
with access to trauma-informed core direct services, advocacy, and substance abuse services.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.
Past Performance
N/A. New funding.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 8

 

Budget Detail
Salaries
Fringe
Travel
Equipment
Supplies
Contractual Services
Indirect Cost
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$89,220
$22,885
$1,850
$3,300
$2,340
$3,500
$26,905
$150,000

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 9

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / Chicago Survivors

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $999,994; Match: $249,999

Agency Budget:

$1,657,607

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
Chicago Survivor’s provides immediate crisis intervention to the families of Chicago homicide victims. VOCA
funding will enable Chicago Survivors to continue to provide these services and to expand its services to
children/youth exposed to respond to insufficient trauma-informed, culturally-appropriate counseling services
for minors; long waiting lists for appropriate counseling services that do exist; and geographic inaccessibility of
counseling services which are not in the community, coupled with unavailability of transportation funds except
on a reimbursement basis.
Program Activities
Chicago Survivors will provide citywide evidence-based, trauma-informed, survivor-centered crime victims’
services to surviving family members following Chicago homicides, including crisis intervention; six months of
field-based supportive counseling and case management; comprehensive referrals; court advocacy and
accompaniment; and a Community of Survivors for peer-based recovery and healing.
Goals
Among the range of services that will be delivered through this funding, Chicago Survivors projects 760 clients
will receive crisis intervention services; 608 will receive individual advocacy; 250 will receive group support
services; 100 will receive criminal advocacy/accompaniment; and 50 will receive therapy. All clients will
receive advocacy/accompaniment to emergency medical care as needed, and referrals to other victim service
providers as needed for poly-victimization.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
Contingent on satisfactory performance and the availability of funds, the program may be recommended for up
to 24 months of additional funding.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 10

Budget Detail
Personnel: 11.12 FTE direct service staff
Fringe Benefits: 11.15 FTE staff
Travel: Local mileage reimbursement; training travel costs
Supplies: Office desk/chair/computer for two new staff; community event supplies; client
emergency assistance; client information; and youth supplies related to supportive counseling.
Contractual: Pro-rated telephone, cell, internet and mobile wi-fi service; pro-rated rent and
copier lease; staff development; debriefing consultant; crisis responder pool; and infrastructure
development costs, including case management licenses and hotline costs.
Indirect Costs @ 10% of MTDC
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$628,854
$143,496
$27,171
$43,950
$67,160

$89,363
$999,994

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 11

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / Children’s Home and Aid

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $75,000; Match: $18,750

Agency Budget:

$63,748,767

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
The SAFE program will provide crisis intervention, mental health assessment, case management /referral, and
individual and family counseling to children and youth 18 and under who have experienced or witnessed
community violence and adults with children 18 and under who have experienced community violence.
Children’s Home + Aid will work with a stakeholder group to strengthen community support systems and will
serve underserved populations including males, people of color, and younger persons.
Program Activities
All therapeutic interventions will focus on addressing the impact of trauma and, if necessary, rebuilding and
strengthening the disrupted parent-child attachment following exposure to violence. The primary model used
will be trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy, and all services will be provided under the Attachment,
Regulation, and Competency framework, a model which considers developmental and cultural elements when
working with children dealing with trauma.
A therapist will serve 15 clients at a time and services will typically last for 6 to 12 months. Children’s Home +
Aid anticipates serving 30 clients over the course of the year. This is a typical caseload for therapists providing
services to this population, based on experience in similar programs.
Goals
The ultimate goals are to strengthen community support systems, minimize the impact of early trauma on the
child’s mental health and development, and foster increased awareness of children’s mental health issues and
increased access to mental health services following exposure to domestic violence. Mid-term outcomes are a
reduction in child symptoms and caregiver stress following exposure to violence and improved system response
to young children exposed to violence.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 12

Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.
Past Performance
N/A. New funding.
Budget Detail
Personnel
Fringe benefits
Travel
Supplies
Contractual
Indirect costs
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$43,075
$11,316
$3,549
$1,587
$6,959
$8,514
$75,000

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 13

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / DeKalb Youth Service Bureau

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $60,000; Match: $15,000

Agency Budget:

$570,182

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
Juvenile victims of community violence will be identified through multiple community referral sources (police,
schools, court system, other service providers), with all youth receiving services through DeKalb County Youth
Service Bureau being screened for exposure to community violence. Juvenile victims of community violence
and their families will be provided trauma certified counseling, case management, and advocacy services.
Program Activities
Funding will support crisis intervention, youth and family counseling (trauma certified), advocacy on behalf of
juvenile victims within the school and the courts, educational assistance to youth, and case management for the
family. Funding will also support community outreach and awareness, stakeholder meetings, and trauma
training.
Goals
Juvenile victims who directly experience or witness violent crime in the home, school, work or neighborhood
and their families will be provided with core direct services.
Stakeholders and the community at large will be informed of services available to victims of community
violence.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 14

Past Performance
N/A. New funding.
Budget Detail
Personnel
Fringe Benefits
Travel
Supplies
Contractual Services
Indirect Costs
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$62,205
$3,345
$1,330
$1,750
$915
$5,455
$75,000

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 15

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / East Aurora School District 131

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $689,763; Match: $142,789

Agency Budget:

$181,362,158

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
The Supporting East Aurora Victims of Community Violence (SEAVCV) project will serve a portion of Kane
County including all of East Aurora School District 131. The SEAVCV Project will develop and document an
intake and needs assessment process; facilitate the development and implementation of and improved
communication system to identify victims of community violence; coordinate, deliver, and/or verify the
completion of trauma informed training for SEAVCV staff; organize and direct activities of the stakeholder
group, AWARE LEA; develop, and execute an evaluation plan in consultation with the project evaluator;
providing services to victims of crime; and submit programmatic reporting, and (8) provide fiscal reporting
information to ensure accurate reporting.
Program Activities
VOCA funds will allow District 131 to serve those children whose problems stem from community violence,
but who are unable to receive the services they need through health-care focused systems. A project manager,
project assistant, and three case manager positions will be created for this project. The additional costs incurred
will be for Family Counseling Service (FCS) and Mutual Ground to provide trauma-focused cognitive
behavioral therapy, an evidence-based treatment.
Goals
The Supporting East Aurora Victims of Community Violence project has 21 goals. Some of the large goals are:
1.
2.
3.
4.

135 clients will receive referrals to Family Counseling Service (FCS) and Mutual Ground
15 clients will receive advocacy/accompaniment to emergency medical care.
150 clients will receive individual advocacy
150 clients will receive assistance intervening with an employer, creditor, landlord, or academic
institution.
5. 75 clients will receive transportation assistance.
6. 50 clients will receive interpreter services.
7. 100 clients will receive crisis intervention.
8. 50 clients will receive criminal advocacy/accompaniment
9. 1000 staff will receive training on trauma
10. 120 of clients will be provided with therapy.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 16

 

Priorities
This program addresses priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA expects to fund these programs for three years. ICJIA will analyze each program to ensure that each is
meeting their goals and objectives in order to decide if the next two years of funding will be granted.
Past Performance
N/A. New funding.
Budget Detail
1. Personnel (Salaries & Wages)
2. Fringe Benefits
3. Travel
4. Supplies
5. Contractual Services & Subawards
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$276,988
$104,891
$8,466
$24,755
$274,663
$689,763

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 17

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / Family Resources

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $105,830; Match: $26,458

Agency Budget:

$4,005,021

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
Family Resources proposes to provide SafePath Community Violence Program services to 30 survivors defined
as adult victims who directly experienced violent crimes and minor victims who directly experienced or
witnessed a violent crime in the home, school, work or neighborhood regardless of their creed, national origin,
race, sex, sexual orientation, color, ethnicity, religion, gender identity, marital status, familial status, age, and/or
disability in Rock Island County.
Program Activities
This funding will support the staff in providing case management services to meet both the short- and long-term
needs of survivors on a continuum; individual, family, and group counseling that includes in-person emotional
support, education/guidance, and information, safety planning; and provide follow up care, crisis counseling,
safety planning, medical services, legal advocacy, individual advocacy, and referrals as needed.
Goals
Family Resources has a projected goal of serving 30 survivors of community violence in the first year. Family
Resources also has the following goals that will be measured by client surveys:






80% of clients surveyed will report knowing ways to plan for their safety.
80% of clients surveyed reported feeling supported by SafePath staff.
80% of clients surveyed will report that they felt the services offered through SafePath met their needs.
80% of community members will have an increased understanding of SafePath services.
80% of clients surveyed will report knowing more about community resources.

Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 18

Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.
Past Performance
N/A. New program.
Budget Detail
Personnel (Survivor Services Supervisor, (2) Other Violent Crimes Specialists)
Fringe Benefits
Travel
Supplies
Indirect Costs
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$72,776
$21,833
$1,000
$600
$9,621
$105,830

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 19

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / Lurie Children’s Hospital

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $537,209 / Match: $134,303

Agency Budget:

$685,452,000

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
The overall goals of this program are to 1) provide direct, comprehensive, multidisciplinary, culturally sensitive,
and evidence based trauma informed care to children and families who are victims of community violence;
2) To provide training for young professionals in evidence based trauma informed care to children and families
who are victims of community violence to increase the amount of future direct service providers; and 3) set a
sustainable framework for current providers with the intent of program expansion.
Program Activities
The grant funds will enable multidisciplinary staff to provide individual, group, family and medication therapies
to victims of community violence. These funds will also allow staff and trainees to participate in evidence
based learning while expanding capacity in the ability to provide a variety of interventions for children and
families, allowing those clients to receive individualized care.
Goals
The acquisition of grant funds will 1) identify and provide empirically supported trauma informed care to
children and families who are victims of community violence; 2) expand mental health services at Lurie
Children’s Hospital enabling staff to provide interventions for a higher number of victims of community
violence; and 3) contribute to workforce development by training young professionals from the disciplines of
social work, psychology, and psychiatry to provide evidence based trauma informed care for children and
families who are victims of community violence.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 20

Past Performance
N/A - New Program
Budget Detail
Budget Category
Personnel
Fringe Benefits
Travel
Supplies
Indirect Costs
Total Project Costs

Federal/State Amount
$316,297
$82,237
$49,275
$40,024
$49,376
$537,209

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

Match Amount
$4,702
$1,223
$0
$0
$128,378
$134,303

Total Amount
$320,999
$83,460
$49,275
$40,024
$177,754
$671,512

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 21

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / St. Anthony Hospital

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $999,967; Match: $249,992

Agency Budget:

$1,788,258 (Department Operating Budget)

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
St. Anthony Hospital will work alongside various community partners to offer direct services for victims of
community violence by conducting community outreach, crisis intervention, case management, individual
counseling/mental health psychotherapy, family therapy, as well as group support.
Program Activities
Funding will support conducting community outreach, crisis intervention, case management, individual
counseling/mental health psychotherapy, family therapy, as well as group support.
Goals
The goal is to provide core direct services to community violence victims and conduct outreach throughout the
proposed 11 community service areas and create a strong system of referrals to connect eligible individuals to
the resources provided by this funding.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.
Past Performance
N/A. New program.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 22

Budget Detail
Personnel
Fringe Benefits
Travel
Equipment
Supplies
Contractual Services
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$549,200
$204,733
$6,955
$15,000
$22,700
$87,000
$999,967

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 23

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / UCAN Violence Intervention and Prevention Services

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $982,973; Match: $246,459

Agency Budget:

$40,367,170

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
UCAN is proposing a suite of services that are the most beneficial in facilitating the healing of those impacted
by violent crime. The program provides strategies to heal trauma and help prevent future violence, strengthen
communities, and build future leaders through individual and group mentoring, clinical case management, and
individual and family therapy.
Program Activities
All program participants will be assigned a coach who will screen and assess their needs and refer them
necessary services offered internally by UCAN and through outside service providers. Since many individuals
impacted by crime may not have previous experience with individual or family counseling, UCAN offers a
clinical case management component offering psychoeducation and behavioral healthcare system navigation
support.
Goals
The ultimate goal of the program is to help youth and their parents recognize the impact of violence and trauma
to create safety and healing for youth, build resilience and hope, and enable youth to reach their full potential.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.
Past Performance
N/A. New funding.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 24

Budget Detail
Personnel
Fringe Benefits
Travel
Supplies
Contractual Services
Indirect Costs
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$609,035
$137,033
$8,025
$1,500
$141,110
$86,270
$982,973

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 25

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Cure Violence Hospital Response Program Expansion

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $455,884; Match: $138,023

Agency Budget:

$15,767,268

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
This grant will expand Cure Violence’s Hospital Response Program, which currently operates in four Level 1
trauma centers in Chicago, to a fifth trauma center at Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center and enhance
program services across all five trauma centers. The program will provide 24/7 trauma-informed crisis
intervention counseling, case management, peer support groups, and legal assistance/victim compensation
services to victims who have sustained gunshot, penetrating wound, and blunt trauma injuries. As appropriate,
survivors will be linked to a broad range of community services and supports.
Program Activities
The program will provide crisis intervention to trauma center patients who have sustained gunshot, penetrating
wound, or blunt trauma injuries and their relatives/friends. Trauma-informed crisis intervention counseling will
be delivered by “credible messengers” known as hospital responders who diffuse emotions and promote a
course that will avoid violence or reinjury. Responders will also conduct initial patient risk assessments and
develop risk reduction goals. Case managers will complete in-depth assessments, coordinate long-term
recovery, and make referrals to community services and supports (e.g., basic needs, therapy, substance use
treatment, employment, education). Program staff will also offer monthly survivor peer support groups. Legal
assistance/victim compensation services will be provided through a subcontract with LAF. Whenever possible,
survivors will be linked to an outreach worker from a program site to provide ongoing mentorship, counseling,
and supportive services.
Goals
The program will increase access to a full range of services to support victims/survivors of community violence,
thereby improving survivor outcomes and decreasing the risk of violent reinjury.
Priorities
Programs funded under this Notice of Funding Opportunity fall under priorities #3 Core Services, #5
Underserved, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10 Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc
Committee in January 2017.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 26

Funding Prospectus
The Authority expects to fund these programs for three years. The Authority will analyze each program to
ensure that each is meeting their goals and objectives in order to decide if the next two years of funding will be
granted.
Past Performance
N/A
Budget Detail
Personnel
Fringe benefits
Travel
Supplies
Contractual
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$185,992
$65,488
$16,565
$2,150
$105,648
$455,884

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 27

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Community Violence / YMCA

Funding Source:

VOCA FFY16: $1,000,000; Match: $200,000

Agency Budget:

$87,116,168

Request Type:

Funding Opportunity #1474-337

Program Description
The mission of the Y’s Youth Safety and Violence Prevention (YSVP) program is to uplift communities and
their residents by supporting the development of resilience, which allows them to heal and to thrive. YSVP
provides prevention, intervention, and re-entry services in safe, supportive, and trauma-informed environments,
combining mentorship, case management, family engagement, and restorative justice programs for the Chicago
communities of Austin, Garfield Park, Humboldt Park, Logan Square, Lower West Side, South Chicago, and
South Lawndale.
Program Activities
Funding will support the community-based work of YSVP’s outreach specialists and case managers, mental
health services and transportation for YSVP clients, YSVP’s conversion to an electronic case management and
reporting system, staff training in YSVP’s Quality Initiative, and a third-party evaluation of YSVP, as well as
the expansion of YSVP’s services to adolescents and young adults in the South Shore and Woodlawn
communities.
Goals
Two hundred YSVP clients who are victims of crimes will receive individual counseling, 150 will receive
assistance with transportation, 100 will receive employment assistance, 100 will be referred to other service
providers, 50 will receive individual advocacy, 50 to 60 will receive mental health services, 30 will receive
criminal advocacy/accompaniment, 25 will receive educational assistance, and 20 will receive crisis
intervention.
Priorities
The program supports priorities #3 Core Services, #5 Underserved Victims, #9 Long-term Needs, and #10
Community Violence, established by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee in January 2017.
Funding Prospectus
ICJIA staff expects to fund these programs for three years. Staff will analyze the program to ensure it is meeting
its goals and objectives prior to determining whether another two years of funding will be granted.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 28

Past Performance
N/A. New funding.
Budget Detail (Young Safety and Violence Prevention)
Personnel & Fringe Benefits
Travel
Equipment
Supplies
Contractual Services
Indirect Costs
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$737,765
$2,140
$60,000
$4,000
$313,732
$82,363
$1,200,000

 VOCA FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 29

Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Program Brief
Item

General Program Purpose

Fund Source

Purpose Areas

More Information
Initial Available Funds Total
Designation Reduction Total
Adjusted Available Funds Total
Proposed Designation Funds Total

Description
VOCA victim assistance is intended to pay for direct 
services to victims of crime. Services under this grant 
program are defined as those that: 1. Respond to the 
emotional and physical needs of crime victims. 2. Assist 
primary and secondary victims of crime to stabilize their 
lives after victimization. 3. Assist victims to understand 
and participate in the criminal justice system. 4. Provide 
victims of crime with a measure of safety and security 
such as boarding‐up broken windows and replacing and 
repairing locks.  The funds are distributed to each state, 
based upon the state's population in relation to all other 
states, as determined by current census data. 
US Department of Justice (DOJ) / Office for Victims of 
Crime (OVC)
Illinois is given latitude in allocating funds, but must give 
10% to each of the following priority areas: ‐ Sexual 
assault; ‐ Domestic violence; ‐ Child abuse; and ‐ 
Previously underserved populations (i.e. Federal crime 
victims, Survivors of homicide victims, Assault victims, 
Robbery victims, Victims of gang violence, Victims of hate 
or bias crimes, Victims of intoxicated drivers, Victims of 
bank robbery, Victims of economic exploitation or fraud, 
and Elder abuse victims).

http://www.ovc.gov/about/index.html

$73,516,870 
$0 
$73,516,870 
$7,444,293 

Remaining Funds for Future Designation Total (assuming 
the adoption of all recommendations by the Budget 
Committee).  This figure accounts for funds held in 
reserve for year 3 of MDT funding (not yet designated).
Open / Available Federal Fiscal Year Awards
Agenda Type ‐ ( New, Continuation, Amendment)
Does VOCA require review from a separate governing 
body?
When was VOCA previously discussed?
Program Director
Appendix Page Number

$66,072,577 
2015, 2016
New
Victim Service Ad Hoc Committee
28‐Sep‐17
Ron Reichgelt
N/A

 JAG FFY14 and FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 1

ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM
TO:

Budget Committee Members

FROM:

Kevin Givens, Associate Director, Federal & State Grants Unit

Date:

October 25, 2017

RE:

Federal Fiscal Year 2014 Justice Assistance Grants Plan Adjustment
Federal Fiscal Year 2016 Justice Assistance Grants Plan Adjustment

FUND REALLOCATIONS
At the July 27, 2017, Budget Committee meeting, the committee acted to reduce the
FFY14 Justice Assistance Grant designation of $331,569 to the Illinois Department of
Corrections (IDOC) for its Community-based Residential Treatment for Adults program
by $317,902, resulting in a revised designation of $13,667. The funds were later
reprogrammed.
Staff has since learned that this designation reduction request was made in error; the
designation should have been reduced by $13,667 for a revised designation of $317,902.
Staff now recommends designating $304,235 in FFY14 funds to IDOC to restore the
designation to its correct amount of $317,902.
To make $304,235 in FFY14 funds available to restore the IDOC’s designation to its
proper amount, staff recommends rescinding the $420,000 designation of FFY14 funds
made to Haymarket Center at the July 27, 2017, Budget Committee meeting for its
Women’s Residential Treatment program. Staff recommends re-designating the $420,000
for this program using FFY16 funds. Haymarket Center does not expect its first payment
for this program until January 2018. No program/service disruption is expected. No
changes will be made to the program. This would result in $115,765 in FFY14 funds
being made available for future programming.
The funds reallocations are described here:
Entity

Program

IDOC

Community-based
Residential Treatment for
Adults

Existing
$13,667

Difference
+$304,235

New
FFY
Total
$317,902 2014

 JAG FFY14 and FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 2

Haymarket

Women’s Residential
Treatment
TBD – For
TBD (Difference between
Reprogramming Haymarket designation and
(Local Use)
restored IDOC funds.
Haymarket
Women’s Residential
Treatment

$420,000

-$420,000

$0 2014

$0

+$115,765

$115,765 2014

$0

+$420,000

$420,000 2016

Staff will be available at the meeting to answer any questions.

Fax: (312) 793-8422  TDD: (312) 793-4170  www.icjia.state.il.us

 JAG FFY14 and FFY16
October 25, 2017
Page 3

Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) Program Brief
Item

General Program Purpose

Fund Source

Purpose Areas (as defined by BJA)

More Information

Description
The JAG Program, administered by the Bureau of Justice 
Assistance (BJA), is the leading source of federal justice 
funding to state and local jurisdictions. The JAG Program 
provides states, tribes, and local governments with critical 
funding necessary to support a range of programs. 
US Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) / Office of Justice 
Programs (OJP)
• Law Enforcement Programs
• Prosecution and Court Programs
• Prevention and Education Programs
• Corrections and Community Corrections Programs
• Drug Treatment and Enforcement Programs
• Planning, Evaluation, and Technology Improvement
Programs
• Crime Victim and Witness Programs (other than
compensation)

https://www.bja.gov/ProgramDetails.aspx?Program_ID=59

$4,242,704 
Initial Available Funds Total
$420,000 
Designation Reduction Total
$4,662,704 
Adjusted Available Funds Total
$724,235 
Proposed Designation Funds Total
Remaining Funds for Future Designation Total (assuming 
the adoption of all recommendations by the Budget 
$3,938,469 
Committee)
Open / Available Federal Fiscal Year Awards
2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016
Agenda Type ‐ ( New, Continuation, Amendment)
New, Continuation
Does JAG require review from a separate governing 
No.
body?
When was JAG previously discussed?
24‐Feb‐17
Program Director
Greg Stevens
Appendix Page Number
##
Recommended Designation Totals at this Meeting to 
JAG Priorities (per 2013 ICJIA JAG Plan)
Support Goals
1. Law Enforcement
2. Courts, Prosecution, Defense and Community
Corrections
3. Prevention and Intervention
$724,235 
4. State Corrections
5. Justice Information Sharing
6. Recidivism Reduction
7. Justice Research and Evaluation

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY

VAWA FFY12
October 25, 2017
Page 1

300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM

TO:

Budget Committee Members

FROM:

Kevin Givens, Associate Director, Federal & State Grants Unit

DATE:

October 25, 2017

RE:

FFY12 Violence Against Women Act Plan Adjustment

RECOMMENDED DESIGNATION
Centralized Training for Chicago-Area Domestic Violence Agencies
Each quarter, the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network provides five 40hour domestic violence training services to between 25 and 35 service providers, and 15
advanced and specialized training services to between 150 and 200 service providers.
Staff recommends a designation of $21,194 in FFY12 discretionary Violence Against
Women Act funds to the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network to continue
this program for an additional 12 months. Additional information is available in the
attached Grant Recommendation Report.
Staff will be available at the meeting to answer any questions.

 VAWA FFY12
October 25, 2017
Page 2

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Centralized Training for Chicago Area Domestic Violence

Funding Source:

FFY12 Violence Against Women Act: $21,194

Agency Budget:

$1,781,244

Request Type:

Continuation

Program Description
The Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network (CMBWN) provides five 40-hour domestic violence
training services and 15 advanced and specialized training services each quarter.
Program Activities
The Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network (CMBWN) will provides five 40-hour domestic
violence training services to between 25 and 35 service providers each quarter and 15 advanced and specialized
training services to between 150 and 200 service providers each quarter. Staff recommends a designation of
$21,194 in FFY12 discretionary funds to the CMBWN to continue this program for an additional 12 months.
Goals
To provide advanced domestic violence trainings, thereby increasing the number and knowledge of trained
domestic violence workers and allied professionals throughout metropolitan Chicago.
Priorities
N/A
Funding Prospectus
N/A
Past Performance
N/A
Budget Detail
Personnel
Fringe Benefits
Contractual Services
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$16,030
$4,564
$600
$21,194

 VAWA FFY12
October 25, 2017
Page 3

Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Program Brief
Item

General Program Purpose

Fund Source

Purpose Areas

More Information
Initial Available Funds Total
Designation Reduction Total
Adjusted Available Funds Total
Proposed Designation Funds Total

Description
Grants to states for programs that would improve the 
response of the criminal justice system to female victims 
of sexual assault and domestic violence. The program’s 
objectives include:
•Providing services to women who are victims of sexual
assault and domestic violence.
•Developing, implementing, and evaluating a plan for
training police, prosecutors, judges, circuit clerks, 
probation officers, and service providers to promote an 
interdisciplinary approach to sexual assault and domestic 
violence. 
•Implementing measures that document and assess the
response of criminal justice agencies in Illinois to sexual 
assault and domestic violence.
US Department of Justice (DOJ) / Office on Violence 
Against Women (OVW)
• Law Enforcement
• Prosecution
• Victim Services
• Courts
• Discretionary
https://www.justice.gov/ovw

$1,432,414 
$0 
$1,432,414 
$21,194 

Remaining Funds for Future Designation Total (assuming 
the adoption of all recommendations by the Budget 
Committee).  This figure accounts for funds held in 
reserve for year 3 of MDT funding (not yet designated).
Open / Available Federal Fiscal Year Awards
Agenda Type ‐ ( New, Continuation, Amendment)
Does VAWA require review from a separate governing 
body?
When was VAWA previously discussed?
Program Director
Appendix Page Number

$1,411,220 
2010, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016
New, Continuation
Victim Service Ad Hoc Committee
16‐Nov‐16
Shataun Hailey
##

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY

VAWA SASP FFY17
October 25, 2017
Page 1

300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MEMORANDUM
TO:

Budget Committee Members

FROM:

Kevin Givens, Associate Director, Federal & State Grants Unit

DATE:

October 25, 2017

RE:

FFY17 Violence Against Women Act Sexual Assault Service Program Plan
Introduction

This memo describes the VAWA SASP FFY17 Plan Introduction.
VAWA SASP FFY16 INTRODUCTION
The FFY16 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Sexual Assault Service Program (SASP)
award to Illinois was $531,869 and $26,593 of that was set aside for administration purposes.
The designations recommended in this memo and future designations will be consistent with the
priorities set forth in the FFY17-FFY120 VAWA Multi-Year Plan.
RECOMMENDED DESIGNATION
On January 10 and 11, 2017, ICJIA convened the Victim Service Ad Hoc Committee (VSAHC)
to review past priorities and define new ones for the use of STOP VAWA funds. The VSAHC
recommended that FFY17-FFY20 VAWA funds be used principally to continue to support
successful programs previously funded through VAWA. The following are continuation
designations for previously funded VAWA programs which staff have deemed successful. The
designations recommended in this memo and future designations will be consistent with the
priorities set forth in the FFY17-FFY20 VAWA Multi-Year Plan.
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA): The Sexual Assault Services Formula Grant
Program directs grant dollars to states and to assist them in supporting rape crisis centers and
other nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations that provide core services, direct intervention,
and related assistance to victims of sexual assault. Rape crisis centers and other nonprofit
organizations such as dual programs providing both domestic violence and sexual violence
intervention services play a vital role in assisting sexual assault victims through the healing
process, as well as assisting victims through the medical, criminal justice, and other social
support systems. As in previous years, staff recommends designating FFY17 VAWA SASP
funds in the amount of $505,276 to ICASA to be subgranted to ICASA’s partner agencies
through a request-for-proposals process.
Due to the delayed receipt of this federal award, staff requests that this designation be made
retroactive to August 1, 2017. Staff will be available at the meeting to answer any questions.

 VAWA SASP FFY17
October 25, 2017
Page 2

BUDGET COMMITTEE GRANT RECOMMENDATION REPORT
Program Name:

Sexual Assault Services Program / Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault

Funding Source:

$505,276 VAWA SASP FFY17

Agency Budget:

$26,358,741

Request Type:

Continuation

Program Description
The Sexual Assault Services Program (SASP) was created by the Violence Against Women and Department of
Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 and is the first federal funding stream solely dedicated to the provision of
direct intervention and related assistance for victims of sexual assault. Women and men of all ages, as well as
children, can be victims of sexual assault. The perpetrator can be a relative, acquaintance or a stranger. Nearly
half of all women and one in five men have experienced some form of sexual violence in their lifetime. Also,
nearly one in five (18.3 percent) women and one in 71 men (1.4 percent) in the U.S. have been raped at some
time in their lives.
For many victims, it may take years to recover from the physical and psychological trauma caused by rape and
other forms of sexual violence. To heal from the trauma, survivors often need support from family and friends,
as well as critical direct intervention and related assistance from victim-centered social service organizations
such as rape crisis centers, through 24-hour sexual assault hotlines, crisis intervention, and medical and criminal
justice accompaniment.
SASP directs grant dollars to states to assist them in supporting rape crisis centers that provide core services,
direct intervention, and related assistance to victims of sexual assault. Rape crisis centers and other nonprofit
organizations such as dual programs providing both domestic violence and sexual violence intervention services
play vital roles in assisting sexual assault victims through the healing process, as well as assisting victims
through the medical, criminal justice, and other social support systems. Funds provided through the SASP
program are designed to supplement other funding sources directed at addressing sexual assault.
In Illinois, VAWA SASP funds are distributed to local sexual assault service providers through an interagency
agreement between the Authority and the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault (ICASA). Under the SASP
program, ICASA will make funds available to 32 member agencies for the provision of hotline, advocacy,
counseling and outreach services to adults and children. The funded agencies will be selected through a
competitive application process in which applicants will be evaluated based on demonstrated need in the service
area, previous and proposed performance, reasonableness of program plan, consistency of budget and program
plan and compliance with ICASA’s service standards.

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

 VAWA SASP FFY17
October 25, 2017
Page 3

Program Activities
Staff

August 1, 2017 through September 30,
2018

Information and Referral – The center will respond to Staff
telephone or in-person requests for information about
sexual assault. The center will share additional
sources on the subject of sexual assault or explain
services which may be helpful to a victim, significant
other or interested individual.

August 1, 2017 through September 30,
2018 

24-hour Hotline or 24-hour Accessibility to
Telephone Crisis

Staff

August 1, 2017 through September 30,
2018 

Intervention – The center will maintain a telephone
Staff
line or other access to 24-hour telephone crisis
intervention for victims, significant others and other
individuals needing assistance. 24-hour access means
that a person (not a pager, answering machine or
voice mail system) must answer the phone to respond
to the caller; this may be a center staff person,
volunteer or answering service worker.

August 1, 2017 through September 30,
2018 

In-person Counseling – Services must include sexual
assault crisis intervention and sexual assault
counseling. Centers may provide sexual assault
therapy.

Goals
Goal 1: Ensure that victims of sexual assault receive fair, supportive treatment from hospital emergency room
personnel and the criminal justice system.



Objective
Advocates will provide 700 hours of
medical and criminal justice advocacy
service.
Provide 2,400 hours of sexual assault crisis
intervention counseling, sexual assault
counseling and sexual assault therapy.






Serve victims in communities that have
generally been under-served.





Each funded rape crisis center will sustain
its 24-hour hotline.



Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

Performance Indicator
The number of sexual assault victims who
receive medical and/or criminal justice
advocacy services.
The number of hours of counseling services
provided including non-client crisis
intervention, individual, family and group and
on-going counseling and significant other
consultation.
The number of victims served that represent
unserved populations (rural populations, people
of color and people with disabilities).
Hotlines are operational 24-hours per day.

 VAWA SASP FFY17
October 25, 2017
Page 4

Priorities
N/A
Funding Prospectus
N/A
Past Performance
N/A
Budget Detail
Subcontracts with sexual assault service providers.
Total:

Template Revision Date: 8/29/2017 

$505,276
$505,276

 VAWA SASP FFY17
October 25, 2017
Page 5

Violence Against Women Act Sexual Assault Services Programs (VAWA SASP) Program Brief
Item

General Program Purpose

Fund Source

Description
The Violence Against Women Act Sexual Assault Services 
Program supports the provision of hotline, advocacy, 
counseling, and outreach services to adults and children 
at 33 local victim service agencies across Illinois. 
US Department of Justice (DOJ) / Office on Violence 
Against Women (OVW)
Victim Services

Purpose Areas
https://www.justice.gov/ovw/grant‐programs#sasf
More Information
$505,276 
Initial Available Funds Total
$0 
Designation Reduction Total
$505,276 
Adjusted Available Funds Total
$505,276 
Proposed Designation Funds Total
Remaining Funds for Future Designation Total (assuming 
the adoption of all recommendations by the Budget 
$0 
Committee). 
Open / Available Federal Fiscal Year Awards
2015, 2016
Agenda Type ‐ ( New, Continuation, Amendment)
New, Continuation
Does VAWA SASPrequire review from a separate 
Victim Service Ad Hoc Committee
governing body?
When was VAWA SASP previously discussed?
12‐May‐16
Program Director
Ron Reichgelt
Appendix Page Number
##

 