ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

Regular Board Meeting
Friday, January 27 2017
9 a.m. to 11:30 p.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-505
Chicago, Illinois
AGENDA

I.

Call to Order and Roll Call

II.

Approval of minutes

III.

Chairperson’s remarks

IV.

Executive Director’s Report

V.
VI.
VII.
VIII.
IX.
X.

ICJIA Financial Report
Grant Making and Ex Parte Communications Presentation and Discussion
Lead Entity Policy Presentation and Discussion
Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Schedule Presentation and Discussion
Committee Reports
VOTE: ICJIA’s Victim Service Priorities, 2017-20
a. Research Presentation
b. Discussion

XI.
XII.

Public comment
Adjourn

T his public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State and
Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations sho uld
contact by telephone, e-mail, or letter John Klaer: (312) 793-8946, john.klaer@illinois.gov, Illinois Criminal Justice Information
Authority, 300 W. Adams St., Suite 200, Chicago, Illinois, 60606-5150. T DD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Board Members

From:

Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair, and John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

January 23, 2017

Re:

January 27, 2017, Meeting Overview

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority’s (Authority) Quarterly Board
Meeting will be held Friday, January 27, from 9 a.m. to 11:30 p.m. at the Michael A.
Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-505, in Chicago. To enter the Bilandic Building,
visitors must present a valid State I.D. and pass through a metal detector. All Authority
Board meetings are subject to the Open Meetings Act. Members of the general public are
encouraged to attend. The Authority’s statutorily-created oversight Board serves a unique
and vital role in improving the State’s public safety outcomes. Composed of state and
local public safety officials, policy experts, and community leaders, the Board is designed
to embody and represent the state’s criminal justice system and is tasked with setting
agency priorities, tracking the progress of ongoing programs, and overseeing the
agency’s grant-making. To that end, the Authority’s quarterly Board meetings bring
research and practical insights to bear on important and emerging issues affecting public
safety in Illinois with the goal of identifying how the agency should address them through
research and grant-making.
At the January Board meeting, executive staff will provide Members with essential
updates on the agency’s work. This will include a presentation and discussion on the
Authority’s new administrative policy for lead entities. These are non-governmental
agencies the Authority uses to distribute funds to sub-grantees to implement federal- and
state-supported programs. (For more information on the agency’s lead entity policy,
please see the attached memo.) The Authority’s General Counsel will then lead a
presentation and discussion on grant-making and the rules that govern ex parte
communications by Board Members. Following this discussion, Authority staff will
present the general funding schedule for the agency’s Justice Assistance Grants (JAG)
and answer any questions Board Members may have. (For more information, please the

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 2

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

attached memo.) The primary agenda item will be a presentation by the Authority’s
Research and Analysis Unit and Board vote on funding priorities for Victims of Crime
Act (VOCA) and Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) block grants for 2017-20. I
have attached a short memo from Dr. Megan Alderden, the Authority’s Associate
Director of Research, which outlines the process the Authority used to examine
victimization in Illinois and the recommended priorities. Also included is the PowerPoint
the Research and Analysis Unit will use at this board meeting, and the report we used at
our Ad Hoc Victim Service Retreat, which includes updates and refinements by the Ad
Hoc Victim Service Committee’s members.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
June 3, 2016
Page 3

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, September 16, 2016, at 2 p.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-502
Chicago, Illinois

Roll Call
Authority Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting
to order and asked General Counsel Angie Weis to call the roll.
Authority Board Member Attendance
State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez (after roll call)
Director John Baldwin
Clerk Dorothy Brown (after roll call)
Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino
Director Brent Fischer
Superintendent Eddie T. Johnson
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan,
Committee Chair
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle (after roll call)
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director George Sheldon (after all voting had
ended)
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

Present
X

Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 Ms. Weis stated a quorum had been achieved. Chair Robb asked for approval of the June
3, 2016, meeting minutes. Ms. Josh moved to accept the minutes and Ms. Hora seconded
the motion. One correction was noted. On page six, second paragraph, the following
sentences should read “Director Maki then introduced the panelists. They included Judge
Robb, founder…” The motion was adopted by unanimous vote.
Chairman’s Remarks
Judge Robb thanked everyone for their attendance at the meeting and expressed her
appreciation for Director Maki and staff with all their work over the summer.
Judge Robb presented resolutions of commendation for former Oak Park
Police Chief Rick Tanksley, and Luz Agosto, former associate director of the Illinois
Criminal Justice Office of Human Resources.
Ms. Wolff made a motion to adopt the resolutions of commendation. The motion was
seconded by Ms. Vollen-Katz and the motion passed unanimously.
Ad Hoc Budget Committee Meeting
(See separate Budget Committee minutes)
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Strategic Plan: Edward Byrne Memorial
Justice Assistance Grants for Federal Fiscal Years 2016-2019

Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair Wolff asked for approval of the Illinois
Criminal Justice Information Authority Strategic Plan for Edward Byrne Memorial
Justice Assistance Grants for Federal Fiscal Years 2016-2019. President Preckwinkle
made a motion to approve the plan and Ms. Campanelli seconded it. The motion passed
unanimously.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki said one goal he had set for the Authority and for Executive Staff was
bulking up the way in which the agency reaches out to other agencies and local
jurisdictions to help them access outside funding. He reported that, through these efforts,
about $3.3 million discretionary dollars have been secured from agencies such as The
MacArthur Foundation, The Arnold Foundation, and the U.S. Department of Justice.
These grants support the work of the Criminal Justice & Sentencing Reform
Commission, technical assistance to the Illinois Department of Corrections, and some
ICJIA planning efforts. He said staff has done unprecedented work in terms of reaching
out to national experts and in data analysis.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
September 16, 2016
Page 2

 Mr. Maki reported ICJIA is the state lead for the White House Data Driven Justice
Initiative, a bipartisan, national imitative, primarily with local jurisdictions, to work with
local criminal justice systems and their health systems to reduce their reliance on
incarceration of people who end up in emergency rooms or jails because of mental illness
or drug addiction. He said ICJIA has partnered with Illinois Health & Hospital
Association to convene local jurisdictions and their local hospital systems to strategize to
reduce their reliance on incarceration for this population.
Mr. Maki said Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) fund planning efforts, including research
and data collection, were underway. He also mentioned per legislation, the Authority was
given responsibility for two new task forces, including one with a focus on e-discovery
and information sharing and the other on re-examining sex offender laws, with
appointments being completed in the coming weeks.
Authority Financial Report
Authority Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz outlined major fiscal matters for the
Authority members. As of June 30, 2016, ICJIA was responsible for $41.6 total
expenditures, including $32.4 million under federal programs and the balance for agency
costs. Mr. Kurtz summarized that 94 percent of spending was on VOCA ($15.4 million),
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants ($7.2 million), Adult Redeploy ($5.0
million) and the Violence Against Women Act ($3.8 million). Mr. Kurtz said during
calendar year 2017, it is imperative that ICJIA reach an annual run rate of $70 million for
VOCA. He said ICJIA partnered with the consulting firm Aeffect on a victim needs
assessment. Mr. Kurtz also said Infonet, ICJIA’s victim services database is running on
technology from 1999 and will be overhauled with VOCA funds. Hearing no questions,
Chairman Robb thanked Mr. Kurtz for his report and moved on to the next agenda item.
Committee Reports
Chair Robb asked Ms. Campanelli for an update on the Audit Committee. Ms.
Campanelli said the Committee met on July 28, 2016, and reviewed Auditor General’s
Report. Ms. Campanelli described the findings and recognized Deputy General Counsel
Robin Murphy and Grant Manager Shai Hoffman for their efforts in addressing issues
noted. Mr. Maki said that understaffing at ICJIA contributed to many of the findings. Mr.
Kurtz added that a full-time grantee auditor had been hired.
Chair Robb invited Budget Committee Chair Designee Hora to comment. Ms. Hora
briefly summarized their discussions on the recusal process and on awarding programs a
full year of funding in the middle of the year.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
September 16, 2016
Page 3

 Chair Robb then turned discussion over to Strategic Opportunities Committee Chair
Wolff, whose committee examined the research standards that ICJIA expects when
funding pass-through grantees who distribute the money to other entities, as well as JAG
and VOCA priorities, and how those are affected by the stop-gap budget. Judge Robb
thanked the committee chairs and invited Mr. Maki to introduce the panel.
Research & Practice Presentation and Panel Discussion
Director Maki began by expressing that a clearly articulated vision for juvenile justice in
Illinois would assist ICJIA in being able to advocate for programs, such as Safe from the
Start. He summarized the achievements in the field of the past few years: raising the age
for misdemeanors, the 2012 consent decree, and a dramatically reduced Department of
Juvenile Justice population. He turned the discussion over to Dr. Megan Alderden, ICJIA
Associate Director of Research & Analysis.
Dr. Alderden gave a presentation on the involvement of juveniles in Illinois Department
of Juvenile Justice. She presented evidence that citizens between the age of 18 and 24,
while tried as adults, are still biologically maturing and may present more risk-taking,
independence-seeking, or emotionally irregular behaviors. These factors, combined with
environmental trauma, such as the lack of a stable support system and incomplete social
reinforcement in school or in their communities, may lead to mental health and substance
abuse issues. Dr. Alderden suggested that access to employment, housing, and
coordinated care between the healthcare and criminal justice systems may alleviate some
of the associated negative outcomes. Director Maki then briefly introduced panelists that
he hoped would help define ICJIA’s future role in juvenile justice.
Panelist Dr. Karen Abrams spoke of her work on a longitudinal study which found that
children in detention had extremely high rates of trauma, low intellectual functioning,
high rates of reincarceration, poor social support networks, and that racial and ethnic
minorities were over-represented. She concluded by offering that staffing advocates to
usher patients being released from mental health facilities to their first appointment is an
inexpensive and effective way of ensuring they engage in treatment.
Panelist Dr. Colleen Cichetti agreed with the conclusions of Dr. Abrams and emphasized
that trauma-responsive treatment and detecting risk factors earlier in life are essential to
positive outcomes. She echoed Dr. Alderden’s presentation in stating that coordinating
care and entering into data sharing agreements pre- and post-release for later analysis
may contribute to long-term solutions of breaking a cycle of trauma and criminal
behavior.
Panelist Esther Franco-Payne highlighted that although research confirms that minorities
are disproportionately represented in the criminal justice system, stakeholders can be

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
September 16, 2016
Page 4

 difficult to convince. She said, ICJIA may be able to educate a broad audience on the
systemic mechanisms that create these conditions.
Director Maki asked for the panelists to describe what a better system might look like.
Dr. Abrams recommended encouraging family support and strong interpersonal
relationships. Dr. Cicchetti added that the social environment of a school can be helpful if
there is a comprehensive plan for how to engage students returning from detention,
possibly through employment training and motivational interviewing.
Panelist George Sheldon expressed discontent at the siloing of state money, which
categorizes funding in a way that prevents coordination. He encouraged ICJIA to become
a clearinghouse of knowledge and best practices. He also described a pilot program from
his agency that places children returning from detention in therapeutic community homes
designed specifically for that population.
Director Maki thanked the panel and presenters and Chair Robb opened the floor for
public comment.
Public Comment
Four representatives of Illinois Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) presented
information on their organization. They said CASA saves the state money by keeping
children out of foster care and long-term facilities with individualized advocacy. They
asked to be considered for future funding opportunities to grow their program.
Adjourn
Chair Robb asked if there were any other members of the public who wished to make a
comment. Seeing none, she asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Hora moved
to adjourn the meeting and the motion was seconded by Mr. Sheldon. The meeting was
adjourned at 4:23 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
September 16, 2016
Page 5

 1/24/2017

Financial Management
•

ICJIA Financial Report
Randy Kurtz
Deputy Director and Chief Financial Officer

•

•

FY2016 Totals (period ending June 30, 2016)
– $41.6mm total expenditures
– $32.4mm expenditures under Federal programs (78%)
– $33.5mm grants made, $8.1mm agency expenses
Key program totals – grants made under these four are 94% of all grants
– VOCA ‐ $15.4mm
– JAG ‐ $7.2mm
– Adult Redeploy ‐ $5.0mm
– VAWA – $3.8mm
Key agency focus ‐ allocation of $165mm ($77.6mm received last fall and $87.2mm just received) 3 year VOCA awards received 
from DOJ
– Engaged consulting firm Aeffect to provide statewide victim needs assessment ‐ Dec 1
– Using VOCA funds to rewrite nationally recognized victim services database InfoNet
– Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee to meet Sept 27 and two day planning meeting Jan 10 & 11
– Will reach annual run rate of VOCA grantmaking of $70mm in 2017 

Authority's enabling statute 20 ILCS 3930/3:
The Illinois Criminal Justice Authority’s Role 
in Juvenile Justice
John Maki
Executive Director

Projects Related to Juvenile Justice
• Research
–
–
–
–
–

Juvenile Justice “snapshot” (funded by the Juvenile Justice Commission)
Juvenile sex offender report (funded by the Juvenile Justice Commission)
Ad hoc data support (funded by the Juvenile Justice Commission)
Juvenile recidivism study (in partnership with Department of Juvenile Justice)
Juvenile race/ethnicity and drug policy 

• Grant‐Funded Programs
–
–
–
–

Dept. of Juvenile Justice programs
Child Abuse Centers
Bullying Prevention
Safe From the Start

"The term 'criminal justice system' includes . . . the administration of juvenile justice" 
Core statutory purposes
– To coordinate the use of information in the criminal justice system; 
– To promulgate effective criminal justice information policy; 
– To encourage the improvement of criminal justice agency procedures and practices with respect to 
information; to provide new information technologies;
– To stimulate research and development of new methods and uses of criminal justice information for the 
improvement of the criminal justice system and the reduction of crime; and
– To coordinate statewide violence prevention efforts . . . that includes public health and public safety 
approaches to violence prevention in families, communities, and schools. 

Select Notable Policy Changes in Juvenile Justice
Redeploy IL 

Raise the age 
(misdemeanors)

Raise the age to 
17 (all offenses)

Limits juvenile 
probation 
supervision 
period

2004

2009

2014

2016 

2005

2012

2015

Department of 
Juvenile Justice 
created

DJJ/ACLU 
settlement to 
improve 
confinement 
conditions

Elimination of 
misdemeanor 
commitments 
and parole reform

Juvenile transfer 
law change 
(eliminates 
automatic drug 
transfers)

Judicial review of 
transfer of 15 
year olds for all 
offenses

1

 1/24/2017

Juvenile Justice Trends
Adjudications

Arrests

Background Data about Juvenile and 
Criminal Justice Trends and Research

916.2

3826.5

881.4

2726.3
342.3

1995

2005

2014

1995

912.5

217.0
796.6

205.5

547.2

ICJIA Quarterly Board Meeting
1995

2014

DJJ admission

Probation Caseloads

Megan Alderden, PhD
Associate Director – Research and Analysis Unit 

2005

2005

2014

127.3

1995

2005

2014

Source: Arrest – CHRI; Adjudications and Probation – AOIC; DJJ admissions – Authority analysis of DJJ data

Criminal Justice Trends

Criminal Justice Trends
Case filings

Adult arrests
745.9

5633.3

746.4

1995

2005

2014
2005

746.4
570.1

3913.3

1995
1995

Probation caseload

745.9

5633.3
570.1

3913.3

Case filings

Adult arrests

2005

2014

2014

1995

Felony probation

IDOC admissions

2005

2014

IDOC admissions
397.4

723.2

228.9
190.6

228.9
190.6

178.3

178.3

382.2
637.1

374.2

619.1

1995

2005

2014

Source: Arrest – CHRI; Adjudications and Probation – AOIC; DJJ admissions – Authority analysis of DJJ data

1995

2005

2014

1995

2005

2014

Source: Arrest – CHRI; Adjudications and Probation – AOIC; DJJ admissions – Authority analysis of DJJ data

1995

2005

2014

30‐60% of juveniles 
involved in the 
juvenile justice 
system will have 
contact with the 
adult system
Source: https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/242545.pdf

2

 1/24/2017

Juvenile 
Justice 
System

In Illinois . . . . 

Criminal Justice System

young adults
account for 1/3
of adult arrests 
and 1/8 of the 
adult population
*

Illinois Age Crime Curve

Peak late 
teens, early 20s

32%

12%
of the adult 
population

10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50 52 54 56 58 60 62 64 66 68 70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84

Age at Time of Arrest

Source: CHRI 2015 arrests

* 18 to 24 at time of arrest; Source: CHRI 2015 arrests

Facts about young brains

Arrest by Race/Ethnicity*, Age, Gender
10 TO 17 YEARS

18 TO 24 YEARS

25 YEARS AND OLDER
The area of the brain that controls 

Hispanic
16%

White
24%

75% 

63% 

non‐White

non‐White

78%

White
37%

79%

83%

54% 

White
45%

continues through the 20s until 
around the age of 25. 

reasoning, advanced thought, 
impost controls—is the last to 
mature. 

Black
41%

77%

78%

83%

76%

Source: CHRI 2015 data
*may not equal to 100%, where race, age, gender known

79%

Risk taking can occur in 
response to less thrill experienced 
by activities that previously 
excited youth during childhood.

Important Differences
Young adults compared to youth

Young adults compared to adults

• More cognitively mature
• More susceptible to peer influences
• Greater likelihood of engaging in risky 
behavior
• More desire for independence

• Impulsive
• Less control over emotions
• Less future oriented

https://csgjusticecenter.org/wp‐content/uploads/2015/11/Transitional‐Age‐Brief.pdf

Brain maturation 

executive functions—

non‐White

Black
48%

Black
59%

83%

Hispanic
13%

Hispanic
15%

Source: http://www.juvjustice.org/sites/default/files/resource‐files/resource_134.pdf

The emotional centers 
of the brain are used to make 
decisions because the frontal 
regions are not fully developed. 

Issues facing Young Adults
Challenges/Opportunities

Additional barriers

• Criminal thinking and behavior

• Aging out of other protective networks

– Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) 
interventions

•
•
•
•

Education
Employment
Mental health and substance use
Transitioning to independence

– School
– Healthcare
– Child welfare

• Lack of coordination between service 
systems
• Collateral consequences

https://csgjusticecenter.org/wp‐content/uploads/2015/11/Transitional‐Age‐Brief.pdf

3

 1/24/2017

 

 

What should role be in
Illinois? Juvenile Justice System?

 

 

ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Board Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

January 23, 2017

Re:

Summary of Draft Lead Entity Policy

As staff drafts a policy that codifies and enhances long-standing effective practices, we ask
for the Authority Board’s input. The following draft summary of policy is an attempt to
create a transparent and competitive funding model that maximizes the use of Federal and
State funds and promotes accountability in each phase of the grant-making process. We
present it for the Board’s review and look forward to a productive discussion.
Lead Entities are used to distribute funds to sub-grantees to implement federal- and statesupported programs. The Authority may be designated as a Lead Entity by either a federal
funding source or a state appropriation, and directly funds and monitors the grantees that will
ultimately operate the grant-funded programs. In other instances, specific Lead Entities are
designated by statute or, for particular programmatic purposes, by the Authority. When a
Lead Entity is designated by the Authority, the Lead Entity is responsible for the fiscal
oversight and quality assurance of its sub-grants. Lead Entities conduct structured monitoring
and provide subject matter expertise and technical assistance to sub-grantees. The Authority
monitors its grant to a Lead Entity through periodic progress reports.
Despite the Authority’s history of partnering with Lead Entities, the Authority lacks an
explicit policy governing how it designates and monitors Lead Entities to ensure compliance
with Authority principles and priorities, Federal and State law, and various policies.

1

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Draft Lead Entity Policy
I.

Designation of Lead Entities by the Authority

In evaluating the need for a new or existing Lead Entity, the Authority will determine
whether it is able to efficiently and effectively administer funds based on its own monitoring
capacity, its available resources for sub-grantee capacity building, and cost-effectiveness. If,
based on these considerations, the Authority determines that it cannot administer the funds as
effectively as required by its own policies and applicable statutes and regulations, then the
Authority will consider using a Lead Entity to administer those specific funds.
The Authority will weigh whether an organization is both versed in the services it will be
overseeing (in order to provide sub-grantees with technical assistance) as well as equipped to
function in an oversight capacity. Consideration will be given to the organization’s
established (1) subject matter expertise and record of providing services specific to the
federal/state grant, (2) network of direct service providers, and (3) monitoring capacity to
oversee its sub-grantees. All Lead Entities must comply with the Grant Accountability and
Transparency Act.
The Authority will conduct a periodic review of all existing Lead Entities to determine if
continued use of each Lead Entity is warranted. The review may consist of analyzing the
Authority’s administrative capacity, the community need for a Lead Entity, the Lead Entity’s
program outcomes, and input from peer service-providers and community stakeholders. A
review may be initiated by the Authority at any time if a fiscal management or programmatic
issue is raised.
II.

Grant-making

Lead Entities shall utilize a competitive bidding process open to all service providers, with
limited exceptions. Each Request for Proposal (RFP), restricted RFP (open only to certain
applicants), and sole source Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) must be reviewed and
approved by the Authority prior to being published. The Lead Entity must provide a written
justification as to why each restricted or non-competitive funding process is warranted. The
Authority may require a Lead Entity to revise a RFP or NOFO or withhold approval.
To foster capacity-building and innovation, Lead Entities may be required to designate a
specific percentage of their grant to RFPs for innovative pilots, demonstration projects, or
programs for underserved areas or populations. Additionally, Lead Entities shall be required
to make fiscal and programmatic technical assistance available to all sub-grantees and may
also be required to attend trainings hosted by the Authority.
2

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Each fiscal year, the Lead Entity will provide the Authority its RFP review panel conflicts of
interest protocol and objective scoring system for approval. Lead Entity RFP review panels
shall include stakeholders from varied backgrounds and may include subject matter experts
not affiliated with the Lead Entity, survivor network representatives, grant administrators,
researchers, and community stakeholders, among others.
Prior to notifying applicants of their awards, Lead Entities shall present to the Authority a list
of all the applicants, identify the chosen applicants, and detail how the Lead Entity will
monitor the sub-grantee and what technical assistance will be provided. The Authority will
perform a preliminary vetting of the sub-grantees and may deny a sub-grantee, impose
special conditions to the sub-grantee agreement, or reduce the amount awarded.
The Authority may choose to review a random cross-section of the proposals to ensure
applicants are appropriately scored. The Lead Entity shall make all proposals and scoring
documents available to the Authority upon request.
III.

Monitoring

Lead Entities are subject to the same monitoring requirements that the Authority applies to its
other grantees, including the submission of quarterly data and fiscal reports and regular site
visits by the Authority. Site visits will entail an analysis of the Lead Entity’s own program
outcomes and fiscal management as well as their monitoring of sub-grantees.
Lead Entities shall monitor sub-grantees to ensure compliance with State and/or Federal
statutes, regulations, and the terms and conditions of the sub-award. All sub-grantees must
comply with Grant Accountability and Transparency Act requirements and submit quarterly
data and fiscal reports to their Lead Entity.
Sub-grantees are subject to site visits by both Lead Entities and the Authority and must make
available all fiscal, personnel, and programmatic data to the Lead Entity and the Authority at
either’s request. Prior to the execution of its grant agreement, each Lead Entity shall submit
their sub-grantee monitoring protocol to the Authority for approval. As the Lead Entity
awards each sub-grant, the Lead Entity shall forward a site visit schedule to the Authority
along with any increased monitoring provisions. Any future site reports created by Lead
Entities that require a corrective action by a sub-grantee shall be submitted to the Authority
along with verification of the corrective action. All unspent sub-grant funds must be returned
by the Lead Entity to the Authority at the end of the sub-grantee’s period of performance.

3

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Finally, Lead Entities shall conduct periodic program evaluations under the auspices of the
Authority. Program evaluations will be done by, or under the supervision of, an independent
program evaluator and submitted to the Authority.
The Authority will conduct periodic community needs assessments to identify shifts in
community needs and gaps in service.

4

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

Board Members

From:

John Maki, Executive Director

Date:

January 23, 2017

Re:

JAG procedures

I wanted to inform you of letters the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
(ICJIA) will be sending to current Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) grantees to announce
important changes to our funding process. The letters will outline the following
information for grantees:
As required by the Grants Accountability Act (GATA) and ICJIA’s Strategic Plan for
JAG in Federal Fiscal Years 2016-19, which the Board approved in September 2016,
ICJIA will begin using a standardized Notice of Funding Opportunities (NOFO) to make
JAG awards. Given ICJIA’s current staffing levels, it would not be possible to transition
all JAG programs to this new process simultaneously; therefore, staff have grouped the
JAG programs into four primary strategic areas and will issue a staggered series of
corresponding NOFOS to which potential grantees can apply over the next two years.
Strategic Areas
Law Enforcement
Response to Narcotics
ICJIA Research and
Evaluation
Court Programs
Correctional Programs

NOFO Released
Second Quarter 2017

Program Start
Fourth Quarter 2017

Second Quarter 2017

Fourth Quarter 2017

First Quarter 2018
Second Quarter 2018

Third Quarter 2018
First Quarter 2019

Please note: For current JAG programs that fall outside of these first NOFOs, there will
be a process to extend grants. ICJIA staff will evaluate the current programs and
recommend to the Board’s Budget Committee extending funding to those programs that
are performing well until new funding is available through a released NOFO. This will
help ensure that current effective grantees are able to apply for funding under the new
process without risking disruption of service. In addition, as in the past, ICJIA will
continue to use JAG funds to support the agency’s research and analysis capabilities, now
employing the NOFO process. After the transition to the NOFO process is complete,
1

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

ICJIA will be positioned to undergo a new three-year strategic planning process for all
JAG programs.
Our entire staff appreciates your patience and cooperation as we implement the JAG
Strategic Plan you approved while complying with GATA requirements. If you have any
questions or concerns, please feel free to email or call me.

2

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

Memorandum
To:

ICJIA Board Members

From:

Megan Alderden, Ph.D.
Associate Director of Research

Date:

January 18, 2017

Re:

VOCA/VAWA Three-Year Funding Priorities

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA) convenes the Ad Hoc Victim
Services Committee (Committee) every three years to define priorities for use of S.T.O.P.
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) and Victim of Crime Act (VOCA) funds. The purpose
of the VOCA funds are to support direct service efforts that respond to the emotional,
psychological, or physical needs of crime victims; assist victims in stabilizing their lives after
victimization; help victims understand and participate in the criminal justice system; or restore a
measure of security and safety for the victim. VAWA funds are intended to promote a
coordinated, multidisciplinary approach to enhancing victim advocacy and improving the
criminal justice system's response to violent crimes against women through the development
and improvement of effective law enforcement, prosecution strategies, advocacy, and services.
Research Approach
To assist the Committee at its convening on January 10 and 11, 2017, ICJIA researchers, with
assistance from Aeffect, Inc., a research consulting agency, completed a six-month research
project to identify crime victim needs and service gaps and measure the existing capacity of
Illinois victim service providers. The research focused on crime victimization throughout the
state, including a wide range of crime types and victim service practices. The research approach
included a review of existing literature, analysis of administrative data, surveys and interviews
of crime victims and family members, and surveys and focus groups with victim service
providers and criminal justice practitioners. A copy of the report provided to Committee
members prior to the meeting along with the presentation materials and Committee member
feedback are included with this memo for your reference.
Using the data collected, ICJIA researchers identified 12 key funding priorities that when
implemented in full will create a comprehensive plan to addressing the needs of crime victims
in Illinois. These priority areas are listed below. ICJIA staff are recommending that Board
members approve these 12 funding priorities. Once approved, the priority areas will be used to
guide statewide funding decisions and the development of Notice to Fund Opportunities
(NOFO).

 Recommended Funding Priorities (listed in no particular order)
Recommendation #1: Fund initiatives that raise the public’s awareness of victim services.
Lack of awareness was identified as an obstacle to service seeking by both victims and service
providers as well as the larger victimization literature. Greater awareness of services and victim
rights gives victims the opportunity to make an informed decision on how best to engage in help
seeking and service utilization, based upon their unique needs. Efforts to increase the public’s
awareness of services also may aid providers in reaching people who are underserved or those
who choose not to report their experiences to law enforcement agencies. Initiatives to increase
awareness should not only involve notifying the public of the service options available, but also
the rights available to them following a victimization. Raising the public’s awareness of existing
programs also benefits providers. Providers discussed the importance of being informed of the
services available in the communities they serve to better assist victims in accessing all of the
services they need.
Recommendation #2: Increase funding to address fundamental needs of crime victims.
Victims, service providers, and criminal justice practitioners alike reported that victims in
Illinois, regardless of crime type, face barriers to accessing services. Many of these barriers
reflect the fundamental needs of victims, such as transportation, language services, housing
relocation, emergency and permanent housing, life skills training, and legal assistance. These
fundamental needs, when left unmet, can inhibit engagement in treatment and undermine longterm safety plans.
Recommendation #3: Fund core direct services to victims of all crime types.
Another theme that emerged was that victims are in need of comprehensive, wrap-around
services. These services include early crisis intervention, criminal justice information and
advocacy, mental health and counseling, legal services, housing/relocation, and assistance
applying for victim’s compensation. Lack of core services was noted across all of the crime
types analyzed (although specific service needs varied). Funding should be made available to
ensure all crime victims, both primary and secondary, can obtain these core victim services.
Along with funding for these core services, the state should address the existing capacity of
victim service providers to offer these services and strategize with providers to support them in
an effort to reduce staff burnout and turnover.
Recommendation #4: Increase funding for advocates and social workers within a variety of
organizations to improve victim immediate access to services.
Researchers consistently were told that early points of contact are critical to educating,
referring, and engaging victims in services, and the need for criminal justice education and
advocacy services was identified across nearly every crime type examined. Funding should be
used to connect advocates and social workers to victims at earlier points in order to increase
service awareness and utilization. Funds may be provided to establish contracts with external
advocates and social workers or may be used to form or enhance advocate and social worker
units in organizations that often have contact with victims. Collaboration between existing

 advocacy services and these organizations also is encouraged. Organizations that often have
contact with victims include colleges, community-based programs, coroner’s offices, courts,
hospitals, law enforcement agencies, jails, and schools.
Recommendation #5: Increase funding of services for underserved victims of crime.
Researchers identified several categories of underserved victims in Illinois. These include
victims experiencing language barriers, people of color, the elderly, males and younger persons,
people who are homeless, victims on college campuses, members of the LGBTQ community,
victims with an undocumented immigration status, people with disabilities, and dually-involved
persons (those involved in the juvenile and criminal justice systems as both victims and
offenders). Underserved victims of crime may not access services due to a lack of awareness,
concerns about discrimination and bias, unhelpful or hurtful responses, cultural and social
beliefs, and past funding limitations. Funding should be made available to specifically develop,
enhance, and expand victim services to the underserved victims identified.
Recommendation #6: Encourage development or expansion of programs that address the
impact of multiple victimization experiences.
Funding should encourage the development or expansion of programming or networks of
services that attend to the impact of multiple victimization experiences. Some individuals may
experience different forms of victimization throughout their lifetimes or may experience the
same type of victimization multiple times. Multiple victimization experiences increase one’s
risk for future victimization, and unaddressed trauma from previous victimization experiences
can be further exacerbated by new ones, decreasing the long-term well-being of individuals,
families, and communities.
Recommendation #7: Promote multidisciplinary responses to victimization.
Multidisciplinary approaches are effective in addressing a wide range of victimization.
Collaborative and multidisciplinary programs have been shown to be more responsive to
victims and improve criminal justice outcomes than single agency or disciplinary approaches.
Multidisciplinary approaches promote coordinated responses to victimization that can result in
improved case outcomes while minimizing the additional trauma to victims. Funding should be
made available for expanding multidisciplinary responses to crime victimization to underserved
regions of the state and crime types.
Recommendation #8: Encourage trauma-informed and trauma-focused services for victims of
crime.
Research indicates that services that are sensitive to or focused on the trauma of survivors are
crucial in mitigating the risk of re-victimization. Trauma-informed services are tailored to meet
the needs of crime victims with consideration of their trauma histories and cultural
backgrounds. Trauma-focused services are services that specifically address trauma symptoms
and the impact of trauma on the victim. Funding should encourage and prioritize services that
are trauma-informed and trauma-focused whenever appropriate.

 Recommendation #9: Fund services that address long-term victim needs, such as counseling
and mental health services.
Funding should be made available for agencies to provide services beyond those that address
the immediate crisis needs of victims. One of the most notable themes identified was the lack of
individual and family counseling and mental health services for crime victims in the state. This
gap in services cut across every crime type examined. Illinois’ long-standing fiscal crisis has
significantly reduced the state’s mental health infrastructure, limiting the capacity of those
agencies that remain to provide long-term mental health services to crime victims. Research
indicates, however, that evidence-based clinical care can significantly improve long-term wellbeing of child, adolescent, and adult victims.
Recommendation #10: Support programs that specifically address needs of individuals exposed
to community violence.
Funding should be specifically allocated for establishing or enhancing services to victims of
community violence, particularly those exposed to homicide, gun violence, robbery, or nondomestic-related aggravated and simple assaults. Existing services for these victims in Illinois
are scarce and in some places non-existent. Services that are designed to address the particular
needs of children, adolescents, and adults are needed. Priority should be given to communities
that develop comprehensive plans to address victimization and those which promote the
development of community-based approaches for all victims, regardless of circumstance.
Recommendation #11: Encourage the use of evidence-informed (or promising) and evidencebased practices and programming.
For all the recommendations made in this report, emphasis for funding should be placed on
defining the outcomes intended for the programs and employing programming most likely to
ensure these outcomes. Programming for victims that are informed by or rooted in research are
those that hold promise and are likely to result in positive victim outcomes. Evidence-informed
(or promising) practices and programs are those research suggests lead to positive outcomes;
however, further study is needed. Evidence-based practices and programming are those that
have been proven to be effective by rigorous and multiple independent research studies when
implemented with fidelity. Examples of such practices and programs include cognitivebehavioral therapy and multidisciplinary responses and trainings to address violent crime
victimization. Funding should encourage and prioritize services that are evidence-informed or
evidence-based.
Recommendation #12: Fund activities that encourage data collection and reporting, document
victim outcomes, facilitate program evaluation, and increase knowledge of victimization and
service provision in Illinois.
In order to assure the effectiveness of the programming recommended here, funds should be
earmarked specifically for collecting data and in evaluating the defined outcomes and the
programming methods employed to reach them. Gauging the effectiveness of victim services
begins with an examination of victim service data. Data collection efforts should focus on
documenting the quantity, quality, and effectiveness of victim services in Illinois. Programs

 should be encouraged to apply for funding that equips and facilitates these data collection
efforts in their agency.
Research clearly indicates that evaluation is key to early identification of issues in program
implementation and design, ultimately leading to stronger victim outcomes. Without evaluation,
providers and funders alike are left to rely on anecdotal evidence about the impact of victim
services. Funding should be used to support program evaluations.

 1/24/2017

ICJIA Victim Service Priorities: 
Summary of the Recommendations to the 
VOCA/VAWA 
Ad Hoc Committee

Introduction to the Research 
Approach
Dr. Megan Alderden
Associate Director of Research

January 27th, 2017

Prevalence, impact,
needs, and evidenceinformed practices

Victim

Crime trends and
patterns, geographic
distribution of crime, and
service availability and
funding streams

a person who has suffered physical, sexual, financial, or
emotional harm as a result of the commission of a

crime
Strategic, data‐driven 
plan to address 
victimization 

Ranking of Importance
NO ranking or ordering that implies importance to the report or
the recommendations

12 Proposed Recommendations 
for Funding Priorities
Research and Analysis Unit
Dr. Jaclyn Houston‐Kolnik, Manager, Center for Victim Studies
Jennifer Hiselman, InfoNet Manager
Amanda Vasquez, Research Analyst
Dr. Megan Alderden, Associate Director of Research

Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Victim service
provider and cjs
practitioner insights
on victim service
needs, gaps, and
capacities

Aeffect interviews with
and surveys of crime
victims about their
experiences and needs

Analytical Process
Conducted geographic 
analyses

Assessed trends & 
characteristics

Reviewed existing 
research literature

Consulted Aeffect’s
victim needs assessment

Administered victim 
service provider 
survey

Conducted regional 
focus groups
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

1

 1/24/2017

Raise Awareness 
of Services

Analytical Process
Conducted geographic 
analyses

Assessed trends & 
characteristics

Reviewed existing 
research literature

Consulted Aeffect’s
victim needs assessment

Administered victim 
service provider 
survey

Conducted regional 
focus groups
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 1 

Of violent crime victims…

Of all participants…

58%

did not seek or receive services 
because they did not know how or 
where to get support services.

66%

didn’t know if violent crime 
victims were eligible for 
compensation from the state.

56%

“It…just takes people a long time to realize 
that they need [services], what kind of 
services they need and that they exist and 
then where do you go to get them…
we don’t really want to make people do all 
the work to come find us anymore.”

would not know where to access 
services if themselves or a family 
member were to become a victim 
of violent crime.
Data from Aeffect Victim Survey

Recommendation # 1 

Recommendation # 1 

Recommendation # 2 

Physical safety, employment, 
resources, family, health

Food, water, shelter, clothing, sleep

Fundamental Needs 

Recommendation # 2 

2

 1/24/2017

Address fundamental needs by funding services to 
help victims overcome barriers
• Emergency and longer term housing

• Safety planning
Feeling unsafe                                   
• Legal/CJ advocacy

Loss of job/income

• Help applying for victim compensation
• Employment services
• Help applying for public resources

Limited/no English

• Language/translation services
• Help understanding legal options in native language
• Informational resources printed in other languages

No transportation

• Transportation
• Mobile services
• Technology to increase access to services

Recommendation # 2 

“Just basic needs … roof, food, utilities. 
After sexual assault, one may not be able to 
function for a while. They may lose their job 
even though we have legislation [VESSA] to 
prevent this. Even if you … [use this 
protection], you will not be paid.”
“Now you are carrying a much heavier burden … 
compounded by triggers … smell, hearing, sight. Maybe 
you were assaulted in your home and must sleep in the 
same room where it happened, because you can’t afford 
to move. Just having utilities is helpful. Knowing you can 
put food on the table for your kids is one less thing to 
worry about.”

Recommendation # 2 

Services considered essential or high priority
by more than half of VSPs
Individual counseling
Crisis intervention
Children's services
Mental health
Information/advocacy on public resources
Medical/health care services
Family counseling
Applying for crime victim compensation
Emergency shelter
Housing
Justice system information/advocacy
Civil legal assistance
Transportation

Core Services
Recommendation # 3

“One of the things that is so frustrating … there are 
core services we provide: emergency shelter, legal 
advocacy, crisis counseling. If you don’t have these 
foundational pieces, you can’t expand or do anything 
new.”

Percent of VSPs 0%

20%

Essential

40%

60%

80%

100%

High Priority

Recommendation # 3

Recommendation # 4 

“[funders] … want innovation, they want expanding
partnerships. I get that. But if you don’t fund the core
services … it can make us weaker … it pulls staff,
resources, and energy away from the core.”

“Exactly… it’s like … building a house of cards,
if you don’t have the strong core services.”

45%

of VSPs reported decreased capacity to serve victims
during the past year.

Recommendation # 3 

More Advocates & Social Workers in More Places

3

 1/24/2017

According to victims of violence…

According to VSPs…  
Three most 
meaningful points 
of contact for 
facilitating victim 
help seeking
1) Law enforcement (57%)
2) Hospitals/medical 
providers (47%)
3) Courthouses (36%)

1) Universities/colleges 
(81%)
2) Prosecutors (56%)
3) Medical providers (50%)

Three least 
frequent referral 
sources (never, 
rarely, occasionally)

– 16% received services from law enforcement.
– 12% received services from a medical/health care 
organization.
– 8% received services from a state’s attorney.
– 6% received services from a teacher or professor.
– 14% received services from a victim services/non‐
profit organization.

Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Data from Aeffect Victim Survey

Recommendation # 4 

“…it’s a way to really
get at the initial

access point
and make a
connection.”

Recommendation # 4

“…the follow up, not just a card or here’s a number, but
do you have the ability to get there … helping them
get to that point. Whoever their point of entry is
because it could be several people .. Hospital,

Underserved Victims

Underserved Victims

police, a call-in … it has to be that person at entry.”

“ Big and broad they need 
more, seriously they need more 
… they need advocates 
everywhere. What we’ve 
learned over the years … the 
more advocates available, the 
more likely people [will] 
continue and achieve whatever 
goals they’re looking for.”

“… the medical community
[should have] advocates too
… there

just aren’t
advocates for
most crime victims

at all. … There’s a lot of
people out there [who have]
no clue where to go.

Where do I go?”
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 4

Recommendation # 5 

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   21

Underserved Populations
Tagalog
“…20% of the clients were not 
English speaking.” (North)

Spanish
Mandarin

“[During a supervised child
visitation the] parent didn’t
speak any English at all so
what is the purpose of this
person supervising visit…you
have no idea what is being
said…I’m sure there’s a lot
you can pick up from tone
and body language…there’s
also so much you miss by not
understanding a word that’s
being said.” (Central)

Recommendation # 5
Recommendation #7 

French

“…we serve [victims from] 75
countries. So Spanish is
helpful sometimes but we
serve so many different
languages that so many
places can’t support.” (Cook)

Polish

Arabic
Korean
American Sign
Language

“…when I started here 21
years ago, it was like
11% of our clients
identified as Latino…now
30% of our client base
identifies as Latino and of
those, almost half are
monolingual Spanish
speakers.” (Collar)

Recommendation # 5
Recommendation #7 

4

 1/24/2017

Underserved Populations

Multiple Victimization
Experiences

Housing
Transportation

Recommendation # 5
Recommendation #7 

Recommendation # 6 

Multiple Victimizations

Multiple Victimizations

How frequently does your agency see victims who
experience multiple forms of victimization?

57%

72%

Any crime victim 
with more than 
one crime type

Violent crime victim 
with more than one 
crime type
Data from Aeffect Victim Survey

Recommendation # 6 

Recommendation # 6 
Recommendation #6

Multidisciplinary Responses

Collaborators
Police
Detectives

Social Workers
Caseworkers

Advocates
Therapists

Researchers
Evaluators

Multidisciplinary
Responses

Attorneys
Advocates

Doctors
Nurses
Clinicians
Ministers
Priests
Rabbis
Mentors
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 7 

Recommendation # 7 

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   30

5

 1/24/2017

Multidisciplinary Responses
“Increased multi‐disciplinary team 
coordination and a trauma based learning 
collaborative have been helpful for our victims.”
“We also need to continue

strong
working relationships with

Multidisciplinary Responses

Challenges

other victim service providers and law
enforcement or prosecutors in our area.”

Recommendation # 7 
Recommendation #8

Recommendation # 7 

TRAUMA SERVICES
Trauma‐informed: services tailored to meet the needs 
of crime victims with consideration of their trauma histories and 
cultural backgrounds

Trauma Services

Trauma‐focused: services to address trauma symptoms 
and the impact of trauma on the victim.
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 8

Recommendation # 8

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   34

“trauma therapists, wouldn’t that be awesome?” 

“To stabilize people, you need to treat trauma, you have 
to have qualified people to do trauma work…it is more 
expensive…and there is less of them or a big waiting list.”

I would add to that not only access to counseling but access to 
quality trauma informed mental health services. Many of the 
clients we see…have a variety of host of issues that might be 
connected to their trauma…and we don’t have a good place to 
send that person for more advanced care. 

Recommendation # 8 

Longer‐Term Services
Recommendation # 9

6

 1/24/2017

“[Victims] come in with increasingly 
complex needs and I think a lot of it is 
because a lot of services have closed 
and…these clients need to be in services 
for a lot longer.”

CJS Information &
Advocacy

Crisis Intervention

“And the thing we continue to run up 
against is the difficulties in accessing 
longer term mental health support. 
Whether that’s longer term counseling, 
therapy, psychiatry…”

Emergency Housing

Life Skills

Permanent Housing

Counseling
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 9 

CJS Information &
Advocacy

Crisis Intervention

Emergency Housing

Recommendation # 9 

Life Skills

Permanent Housing

We are really focusing on that frontline crisis emergency 
services and we were at a place where trying to provide some of 
longer term services was at the expense of the people in 
crisis….But that doesn’t change the fact that many of them have 
really complex trauma, childhood abuse issues and sexual 
assault issues, and that really they need longer term supports
than we can’t provide and it’s really hard to find them in the 
community.” 

Counseling
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 9 

Recommendation #9 

•

Address Community Violence
Recommendation # 10

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   41

•
•

Internalizing and
externalizing behaviors
Trauma symptomology
Fear, safety concerns

•
•

Stress
Family conflict

•
•
•

Distrust
Informal social control
Collective efficacy

Recommendation # 10

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   42

7

 1/24/2017

Recommendation # 11

“. . . is a community that has so much
violence. . . not only domestic violence
but community violence.”
“One thing that we don’t really have
and with gun crime going up, are any
“Much research exists which points trauma services for
neighborhoods or victims of gun
directly to the devastating impact
crimes . . . having an outlet for people
violence exposure has for
to feel empowered against gun
children and the ramifications for
violence rather than having to put
NOT treating them/ providing
up with it would be a nice service . . .
services.”
to have.”
“[elimination of state funding] . . . has resulted in children
who have been traumatized by community violence
having to be referred out to other agencies who are not
specifically trained to provide services to this young
population.”

Recommendation # 10

Evidence-informed Practices

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   43

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   44

Recommendation # 11

Data collection

Community 

Outcomes

Research

Evaluation
Field experience

• Satisfaction surveys
• Case studies

Evidence‐
informed
• Correlational studies
• Pre/posttest surveys

• Quasi‐experimental
• Random control trials

Opinion‐
informed

Evidence‐
based

Recommendation # 12

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   46

Recommendations for Funding Priorities
Promote awareness and access

Promote strong implementation

•
•
•

Fund initiatives that raise the public’s awareness of victim services.
Increase funding for advocates and social workers within a variety of organizations to increase
victim access to immediate services.
Increase funding of services for underserved victims of crime.

Address core needs
•
•

Facilitate quality improvement efforts

•
•
•

Support sustainability

Increase funding to address fundamental needs of crime victims.
Fund core direct services to victims of all crime types.

Victim centered and informed
Encourage development and expansion of programs that address the impact of multiple
victimization experiences.
Promote multidisciplinary responses to victimization.
Encourage trauma-informed and trauma-focused services for victims of crime.

Fill key gaps
• Fund services that address long-term victim needs, such as counseling and mental health services.
• Support programs that specifically address needs of individuals exposed to community violence.

Implementation, outcomes, sustainability
•

Recommendation # 12

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   47

•

Encourage the use of evidence-informed (or promising) and evidence-based practices and
programming.
Fund activities that encourage data collection and reporting, document victim outcomes, facilitate
program evaluation, and increase knowledge of victimization and service provision in Illinois.

8

 State of Illinois
Bruce Rauner, Governor
John Maki
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority

AD HOC VICTIM SERVICES
COMMITTEE RESEARCH REPORT

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

Introduction .................................................................................................................................. 3
Section 1: Research Approach ...................................................................................................... 5
Section 2: Allowable Costs ............................................................................................................ 11
Section 3: Victim Service Provider Capacity ................................................................................ 15
Section 4: Underserved Groups ................................................................................................... 17
Section 5: Community Violence ................................................................................................... 21
Section 6: Homicide

..................................................................................................................... 25

Section 7: Impaired Driving-Related Crashes ............................................................................. 30
Section 8: Domestic Violence
Section 9: Sexual Violence

...................................................................................................... 35

........................................................................................................... 40

Section 10: Human Trafficking .................................................................................................... 45
Section 11: Child Abuse

................................................................................................................ 50

Section 12: Elder Abuse ................................................................................................................ 56
Section 13: Recommendations ..................................................................................................... 61
Appendix A: Trauma and Trauma-Informed Care ...................................................................... 66
Appendix B: Population Demographics in Illinois ...................................................................... 67
Appendix C: Guiding and Grantmaking Principles

.................................................................... 72

Addendum I: Slides Presented at the Ad Hoc Victim Services Committee Meeting .................. 74
Addendum II: Feedback from Committee Members ................................................................... 137

2

 INTRODUCTION
The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority’s (ICJIA) Ad Hoc Victim Services
Committee (Committee) convenes every three years to define priorities for use of S.T.O.P.
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) and Victim of Crime Act (VOCA) funds. The criminal
justice, juvenile justice, victim services professionals, and victim advocates who comprise the
Committee review crime and victimization trend data, information on current efforts, and data
from funded programs to ensure a minimum provision of basic services to victims of crime and
prioritize funding.
To assist the Committee at its convening on January 10 and 11, 2017, ICJIA researchers
conducted a study to identify crime victim needs and service gaps and measure the existing
capacity of Illinois victim service providers. The study focused on crime victimization
throughout the state, including a wide range of crime types and victim service practices. This
report synthesizes the information collected, literature reviewed, and data analyzed, and
provides a set of recommendations based on the research findings.
The recommendations provided in this report are limited to what may be funded through VOCA
and VAWA. A complete set of findings that includes a broader discussion about victim needs
and services that cannot be addressed by VOCA or VAWA will be made available to the public in
early 2017.
Section Overview
Section 1-Research Approach begins with a brief summary of the research methodology
employed, including the project’s main components and data limitations.
Section 2-Allowable Costs provides an overview of what costs are allowable under federal VOCA
and VAWA guidelines.
Section 3-Victim Service Provider Capacity and Section 4-Underserved Groups document two
overarching themes identified: (1) victim service provider capacity issues and (2) underserved
groups. These themes were consistently discussed by study participants and provide an
important context for discussions around expanding victim services in Illinois.
Sections 5 through 12 of the report focus on the crime-specific analysis of victimization in
Illinois. Researchers examined specific crimes types, most of which constitute violent crimes, to
identify particular issues and needs of each victim group. These analyses also revealed
similarities and differences across crime types.
Section 5-Community Violence is the first crime type examined. Community violence
encompasses a large range of crimes from homicide and robbery to violence in homes, schools,
and workplaces. Although subsequent sections provide more detailed analysis of the specific
crime types that may fall under the broad definition of community violence used in this report, it
was felt that a section devoted to the issue of community violence was appropriate because, from
a public health perspective, violence not only impacts individuals, but also family members,
loved ones, and communities.
Following the section devoted to community violence, individual crime type reports are
presented in the following order: Section 6-Homicide, Section 7-Impaired Driving-related
Crashes, Section 8-Domestic Violence, Section 9-Sexual Assault, Section 10-Human
Trafficking, Section 11-Child Abuse, and Section 12-Elder Abuse. Each crime type report begins
3
 

 with a map of the rate of victimization in Illinois and the locations of victim service agencies that
receive state funding (through ICJIA or other state agencies). Next follows an analysis of the
major crime trends and victim characteristics to better understand the nature of victimization.
Research on the impact of the crime on victims is then presented to highlight the unique
experiences of victims. Lastly, the researchers combine these assessments with data collected
from victims, victim service providers, and criminal justice practitioners in order to identify the
service needs and gaps of victims by crime type. Taken together, each section provides a
discussion of each crime and where the crime occurs, who victims of these crimes are, why
victims are in need of services, and highlights what services are needed and where services may
be lacking.
Section 13-Recommendations provides a summary of the recommended funding priorities,
informed by ICJIA’s analysis of victimization in Illinois. Each recommendation includes a brief
justification that highlights information collected from crime victims, victim service providers,
juvenile and criminal justice practitioners, examination of existing literature reviews, or analysis
of the crime data.

4
 

 SECTION 1: RESEARCH APPROACH
In June 2016, ICJIA researchers conducted a study to identify crime victim needs and service
gaps and measure the capacity of Illinois victim service providers. The study was initiated to
inform ICJIA’s strategic planning process for establishing victim service funding priorities. The
project included a review of existing literature, an analysis of administrative data, surveys and
interviews of crime victims, and surveys and discussions with victims and their family members,
victim service providers, and criminal justice practitioners.
Literature Review
Research staff compiled and reviewed academic literature and government reports about the
prevalence and incidence of crime victimization; impact of victimization on one’s health and
well-being; and the short- and long-term consequences of unaddressed trauma associated with
victimization for individuals, families, and communities. The purpose of engaging the literature
was to supplement the limited available Illinois-specific data on crime victimization and victim
needs and outcomes. Staff also collected information about promising and evidence-based
victim service programs to inform existing victim service practices and the development of new
services and approaches.
Administrative Data
Research staff identified, compiled, and analyzed administrative data on crime and victim
services. Data analyzed and their sources are listed in Table 1. These data were used to examine
trends, characteristics, and regional differences to identify where crime hot spots and victim
needs exist in Illinois.
Table 1. Administrative Data and Source
Data

Source

Illinois Uniform Crime Reports (I-UCR)

Illinois State Police

Supplemental Homicide Reports

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Domestic violence orders of protection

Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts

Child abuse and neglect

Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Child Advocacy Centers of Illinois

Alcohol-related traffic fatality

Illinois Department of Transportation

Elderly abuse

Illinois Department on Aging

Illinois population characteristics

United States Census Bureau

Victim characteristics and service provision

InfoNeta

Other victim service information

Agencies receiving federal funds administered by ICJIA

a. InfoNet is the state’s central repository for statewide victim service data specific to sexual assault, domestic violence, and child
abuse.

Information about state funding practices and victim service availability were gathered from the
Illinois Department of Human Services, Illinois Department on Aging, Illinois Coalition Against
Sexual Assault, Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Child Advocacy Centers of Illinois,
and the Office of the Attorney General. This information was used to identify the types of victim
5
 

 services currently supported with state and federal funds and the service locations across the
state. 
Surveys and Interviews of Victims
In June 2016, ICJIA contracted with Aeffect, Inc., a marketing and communications research
firm, to conduct a statewide victim needs assessment. This assessment involved a literature
review, qualitative in-depth interviews, and survey of Illinois residents. Aeffect carried out the
research in five stages.
(1) Aeffect staff conducted a literature review detailing the efforts of other states at assessing
crime victim needs. The literature review was used to inform subsequent aspects of the
project, including interview and survey development.
(2) Aeffect researchers conducted initial interviews with select stakeholders. ICJIA staff
identified individuals who direct organizations or offices charged with serving crime victims.
These stakeholders represented a wide variety of crime victims, including victims and
survivors of homicide, sexual violence, domestic violence, child abuse, driving under the
influence, elder abuse, and human trafficking, as well as individuals who could speak to the
unique needs of victims from the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer (LGBTQ)
community and different cultures. The interviews with stakeholders focused on
documenting victim needs, strengths, and weaknesses of existing practices related to
assisting victims, challenges to addressing victim needs, and funding priorities.
(3) Aeffect used the literature review and initial interviews with the stakeholders to guide
development of the interview protocols. Due to the sensitivity of the research topic and
concerns about minimizing potential effects of this research on participants, the research
materials and interview protocols were reviewed and cleared by an independent Institutional
Review Board. This helped ensure respondent confidentiality and privacy, and that
participants were provided with appropriate support and counsel, if needed, after
participation.
(4) Aeffect researchers conducted 85 in-depth interviews by telephone with victims, victims’
family members, victim services providers, and professionals who encounter victims in their
work, such as law enforcement personnel, nurses, and state’s attorneys. This total does not
include the stakeholders interviewed in the initial phase of the project. Respondents
discussed their needs resulting from variety of crime experiences, including domestic
violence, sexual violence, child abuse, homicide and gun violence, driving while intoxicated,
elder abuse, hate crimes, human trafficking, stalking, and identity theft/financial crimes.
Researchers used a recruitment strategy to ensure geographic diversity, as well as racial,
ethnic, and gender variation. Ten of the interviews were conducted in Spanish.1 The
interviews focused on discussing victim needs, awareness of victim services, barriers to
accessing services to address the identified needs, strengths and weaknesses to existing
victim services, and ways to improve victim service provision in Illinois. Victims and families
members were allowed to share as much or as little about the crime they experienced as they
wanted, but the interviews focused on their experiences after the crime and the support
services they received or failed to receive.

6
 

 (5) Using the data collected through the other methodologies previously noted, Aeffect
developed an online survey that was them administered to residents statewide. The purpose
of the survey was to document victimization prevalence, and to learn from those victims
what their needs were following their victimization, whether those needs were addressed,
and ways to improve victim services. The survey was administered online to adult residents
of Illinois (defined as persons 18 years and older) using a statewide consumer panel. Care
was taken to match the sample to U.S. Census data, ensuring that the sample was
representative of Illinois geography, gender, age, and socioeconomic status. About 1,042
persons completed the survey and 26.9 percent of them self-identified as having been a
crime victim in the last 10 years. To supplement these data, Aeffect recruited additional
victims from Chicago and victims who experienced specific crimes, such as child abuse, elder
abuse, homicide and gun violence, domestic violence, and sexual assault to ensure their
voices were heard.2 When the state benchmark and supplemental samples are collapsed, the
online survey represented the perspectives of 1,565 Illinois residents which can now be used
to profile the prevalence of victimization and needs of crime victims.
Surveys and Discussions with Practitioners
ICJIA staff also surveyed victim service providers and conducted seven follow-up focus groups
with provider staff. Service providers were identified using public websites and government
source lists of more than 500 service providers in Illinois. Researchers sent out recruitment
letters and when available, emails, to potential participants. After the initial wave of
recruitment, researchers followed up twice by email about participation in the study.
Researchers encouraged victim service providers who took the survey to share it with other
providers in their area. The survey asked respondents about the needs of crime victims and
availability of services and capacity to meet those needs. A total of 235 providers completed the
survey.
The final question of the survey informed the recruitment strategy for the second part of the
study. At the end of the survey, participants opted-in to be contacted about participating in
future focus groups. Ninety agencies that opted-in were recruited to participate in the focus
groups. Researchers held focus groups in the Central (2), Collar (1), Cook (2), Northern (1), and
Southern (1) regions of the state. Participants represented a variety of agencies serving different
victim groups. Across all seven focus groups, 28 victim service providers participated. The focus
group discussions centered on the needs of crime victims, successes and challenges in
addressing those needs, and service capacity.
In addition, ICJIA staff engaged in informal discussions with criminal justice practitioners to
gain their insights into the landscape of victim needs and the criminal justice systems’
responsiveness to victim needs. Discussions occurred with practitioners representing police,
prosecutors, defense attorneys, and corrections professionals.
                                                            
1
2

Aeffect Topline report #2.
Aeffect bi-weekly communication.

7
 

 Data Limitations
No research study is without limitations. First, much of the data analyzed for this report
reflected crimes reported to police, other governmental agencies, or formal service providers.
One overarching limitation in victimization research is that many crimes go unreported; a lot of
victims never disclose their experiences formally, whether to criminal justice agencies or victim
service providers. Data collected through the National Crime Victimization Survey indicate only
47 percent of violent victimizations in the United States in 2015 was reported to police and
reporting varied greatly by crime type (rape was the least likely to be reported, whereas
aggravated assaults, robberies and motor vehicle thefts were the most likely to be reported).3
Care was taken during the research process to include victims who did not report the crimes
they experienced to authorities whenever possible. Victims report significant challenges and
barriers to disclosing their victimization including stigma, cultural values, fear of reprisals, lack
of trust in the criminal justice system, lack of informal social support, and perceptions that
reporting will not help. Thus, while an attempt is made to provide the most robust picture
possible, the information presented in this report is not fully representative of victimization in
Illinois.
Second, Aeffect’s research is based upon reflections of residents who may not clearly or
objectively recall crime experiences. Though effort was made to include individuals who had
experienced crimes recently, often victims were reflecting on experiences that occurred during
stressful or emotional times, and as such, they may not remember the actual sequence of events
that transpired, or they may not have fully understood why some things occurred in a specific
way, particularly with regard to protocols of law enforcement or the legal system.
Third, the qualitative interviews represent a small sample of individuals. While Aeffect
attempted to secure enough interviews in which to identify experiential themes and perceptions,
the number of interviews conducted especially by crime type limits what can be inferred. The
data only represent the opinions and experiences of the people who participated in in-depth
interviews and cannot be generalized to the whole State of Illinois.
Fourth, Aeffect’s quantitative survey was administered online. While they were able to use a
sampling and weighting strategy to reflect a geographically representative sample for Illinois, it
may not represent households that do not have access to the Internet. Despite this, households
with a lower soci0-economic status were included in the sample.
Fifth, this research took place following an Illinois budget crisis and increasing gun violence,
specifically within the City of Chicago. These issues may shape some perceptions that were
shared, not only among victims, but also by those working in victim services.
Sixth, the sample of victim service agencies may not be representative of all providers in Illinois.
The recruitment strategy for the victim service provider survey involved both paper and email
outreach. Agencies that had moved, closed, or merged with other agencies may not have
received recruitment materials and thus, did not participate in the study. While some of these
individuals may have been forwarded the link to our survey, researchers could not identify who
participated because the survey was anonymous.
Lastly, many of the analyses of crime trends and characteristics relied heavily on aggregated
data. While aggregated data is useful for analyzing numbers and rates across time, it has its
limitations. This is particularly true of crime data collected through the state’s Uniform Crime
8
 

 Reporting (I-UCR) program. I-UCR summary data do not offer detailed analyses of crime victim
or suspect characteristics4 that could aid further understanding of victimization risk and impact
in Illinois. Where possible, disaggregated data was obtained to better understand the
characteristics of victims. Such disaggregated data, however, were not always readily available.

                                                            

Truman, J. L. & Morgan, R. E. (2016). Criminal victimization, 2015 (NCJ Publication No. 250180).
Washington D.C: U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Statistics.
Available at: https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/cv15.pdf
4 For more information about the I-UCR program in Illinois and its limitations, see Hughes, E. (2016).
About Uniform Crime Reporting Program. Chicago, IL: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.
Available at: http://www.icjia.state.il.us/articles/about-uniform-crime-reporting-program-data
3

9
 

  
Symbol Chart
For each map, symbols are used to demonstrate the locations of victim service providers who receive
state or federal funds for victim services from a state agency. Many providers receive both ICJIA and
other state funds. To depict this, we use a triangle to represent ICJIA-funding, a circle to represent
other state funding (i.e., Department of Human Services, General Revenue funds, Illinois
Department on Aging, the Office of the Attorney General), and a smaller square to represent satellite
locations for sexual and domestic violence providers. These symbols represent the presence of state
funding in a given county, not the number of agencies operating in each county.
ICJIA-funded victim service provider
Non-ICJIA, state funded victim service provider
Victim service provider satellite location

Icon Chart
The following icons1 will be used throughout the report to represent services providers identified as
most important for the victims they serve.
Children’s Services
Counseling
Criminal/Juvenile Justice System
Information & Advocacy
Crisis Intervention

Housing
Information/Advocacy on Public
Resources (e.g., Medicare, Welfare)
Life Skills (e.g., Employment,
Education, Financial)

Emergency Housing

Medical/Health Care Services
(e.g., Hospital, Clinic)

Help Applying for Crime Victim
Compensation

Mental Health

                                                            
1

Icon made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

10
 

  
SECTION 2: ALLOWABLE COSTS
Victims of Crime Act (VOCA)
The VOCA Victim Assistance Formula Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Department of
Justice’s Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) and funded by the Crime Victims Fund. Under the
VOCA Victim Assistance Program, ICJIA awards subgrants to eligible public agencies and
nonprofit organizations to fund direct services to crime victims and supporting and
administrative activities. A crime victim is a person who has suffered physical, sexual, financial,
or emotional harm as a result of the commission of a crime. Direct service efforts respond to the
emotional, psychological, or physical needs of crime victims; assist victims to stabilize their lives
after victimization; assist victims to understand and participate in the criminal justice system; or
restore a measure of security and safety for the victim.
ICJIA may use VOCA funds to provide direct services through subgrantees or through its own
projects, and up to 5% of the State’s annual VOCA grant to cover its administrative and training
costs. Priority of funding is given to programs providing assistance to victims of sexual assault,
spousal abuse, or child abuse. By statute, at least 10% of each year’s VOCA grant must be
allocated for each of these three categories, and 10% must be allocated to underserved victims of
violent crime. OVC recently published a VOCA Victim Assistance Program Final Rule that went
into effect August 8, 2016 and updates the 1997 Program Guidelines.
Under the Final Rule, VOCA funding may be used by a State Administrating Agency for
administration and training to:
(1) Develop service and financial strategic plans and conduct surveys and needs
assessments.
(2) Foster coordination and collaboration among federal, state, and local agencies and
organizations to improve victim services.
(3) Conduct program evaluations including surveys or studies that measure the effect or
outcome of victim services.
(4) Cover the salaries and benefits of staff and consultants to administer and manage the
program as well as the cost of training staff.
(5) Monitor compliance of subgrantees with federal and state requirements; support victims'
rights compliance programs; provide technical assistance; evaluate and assess program
activities; and conduct reporting activities required by federal and state law.
(6) Cover program audit costs, technology and technology support services, memberships in
crime victims’ or victim assistance organizations, publications, and general program
improvements that enhance overall program operations and improve the delivery and
quality of services to crime victims throughout the State.
(7) Provide statewide or regional training of direct assistance personnel and allied
professionals, as well as managers and Board members of victim service agencies, and
training academies for victim assistance.
VOCA funding to subgrantees may be used to provide direct services and supporting and
administrative activities that include:
(1)

Immediate emotional, psychological, and physical health and safety services including,
but not limited to, crisis intervention services; accompaniment to hospitals for medical
exams; hotline counseling; safety planning; emergency food, shelter, clothing and
transportation; short-term nursing-home placement for adults; short-term in-home care
and supervision for children and adults; safety-related repair or replacement of
windows, locks, doors and other items; limited emergency medical care, when other
funding sources are not expected to be quickly available; and emergency legal assistance.
11

 

  
(2)

Personal advocacy and emotional support services including, but not limited to,
assessment of the impact of the crime; identification of victim needs and available
resources; provision of information and referrals for continued services; case
management; management of practical problems created by the victimization; and
traditional, cultural and alternative therapy.
(3) Mental health counseling and care; peer-support; public awareness and education
presentations to inform victims of rights and services; transportation to receive services
and to participate in criminal justice proceedings; forensic medical evidence collection
examinations, to the extent that other funding sources such as state appropriations are
insufficient; forensic interviews; and assistance in applying for crime victim
compensation benefits.
(4) Facilitation of participation in criminal justice and other public proceedings arising from
the crime including, but not limited to, victim advocacy; notifying victims of key
proceeding dates; accompanying a victim to court; assistance with interpreters for nonwitness victims; managing the logistics of non-witness victims participating in
proceedings including transportation, meals, lodging and child care and respite care;
assistance with Victim Impact Statements, recovery of property taken as evidence and
restitution; and victim-centered restorative justice.
(5) Legal assistance services (other than criminal defense and tort actions) where reasonable
and where the need arises as a direct result of the victimization. Legal assistance includes
but is not limited to emergency legal assistance such as filing for restraining orders, and
obtaining emergency custody orders and visitation rights, victims’ rights enforcement,
motions to vacate or expunge a conviction when allowed by Illinois law based on a
person’s being a crime victim, and other civil legal actions that are reasonably necessary
as a direct result of the victimization.
(6) Transitional housing and relocation for victims who cannot safely return to their
previous housing due to the circumstances of their victimization.
(7) Activities that support a multi-system, interagency or multi-disciplinary response to
crime victim needs including, but not limited to, coordination with federal agencies to
provide services to victims of federal crimes and/or participation on Statewide or other
task forces, work groups, and committees to develop protocols, interagency agreements,
and other working agreements.
(8) Coordination activities that facilitate the provision of direct services including, but not
limited to, statewide coordination of victim notification systems, crisis response teams,
multi-disciplinary teams, coalitions to support and assist victims, and other programs.
(9) Payment of salaries and expenses of direct service staff, including those on child and
adult abuse multi-disciplinary investigation and treatment teams, coordinators, and
necessary supervisory staff that effectively facilitate the provision of direct services;
payment of a prorated share of liability insurance; and contracts for specialized
professional services that are not available within an organization.
(10) Skills training and materials for direct service providers including paid staff and
volunteers to promote quality direct services, training-related travel expenses for paid
direct-service staff, and volunteer training activities.
(11) Payment of organizational expenses necessary and essential to providing direct services
and other allowable victim services, operating costs, automated systems and technology,
equipment and furniture, administrative time spent on VOCA-required documentation,
maintaining victims’ records, and conducting victim satisfaction surveys and needs
assessments to improve victim services delivery in the project, a prorated share of audit
costs, and other costs related to program vehicles and essential items that contribute to
maintaining a healthy or safe environment for crime victims.
(12) Project evaluations of specific projects in order to determine their effectiveness.
12
 

  
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
The S.T.O.P. (Services • Training • Officers • Prosecutors) Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
is a formula grant program awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office Violence Against
Women (OVW). VAWA promotes a coordinated, multidisciplinary approach to enhancing victim
advocacy and improving the criminal justice system's response to violent crimes against women.
It encourages the development and improvement of effective law enforcement and prosecution
strategies to address violent crimes against women and the development and improvement of
advocacy and services in cases involving violent crimes against women.
By statute, VAWA funds are distributed by an allocation formula: 30 percent to victim services,
25 percent to law enforcement, 25 percent to prosecution, 5 percent to courts and 15 percent
discretionary.
All VAWA grant activity must fall within one of the following statutory purpose areas:
(1)

Training law enforcement officers, judges, prosecutors, and other court personnel to
more effectively identify and respond to violent crimes against women.
(2) Developing, training, or expanding units of law enforcement officers, judges,
prosecutors, and other court personnel specifically targeting violent crimes against
women.
(3) Developing and implementing more effective police, court, and prosecution policies, and
protocols, orders, and services specifically devoted to preventing, identifying, and
responding to violent crimes against women.
(4) Developing, installing, or expanding data collection and communication systems,
including computerized systems, linking police, prosecutors, and courts or for the
purpose of identifying and tracking arrests, protection orders, violations of protection
orders, prosecutions, and convictions for violent crimes against women.
(5) Developing, enlarging, or strengthening victim services programs, including sexual
assault, domestic violence, and dating violence programs, developing or improving
delivery of victim services to underserved populations, providing specialized domestic
violence court advocates in courts where a significant number of protection orders are
granted, and increasing reporting and reducing attrition rates for cases involving violent
crimes against women.
(6) Developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs addressing stalking.
(7) Developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs addressing the needs and
circumstances of Native American tribes in dealing with violent crimes against women.
(8) Supporting formal and informal statewide, multidisciplinary efforts, to the extent not
supported by state funds, to coordinate the response of state law enforcement agencies,
prosecutors, courts, victim services agencies, and other state agencies and departments,
to violent crimes against women.
(9) Training of sexual assault forensic medical personnel examiners in the collection and
preservation of evidence, analysis, prevention, and providing expert testimony and
treatment of trauma related to sexual assault.
(10) Developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs to assist law enforcement,
prosecutors, courts, and others to address the needs and circumstances of older and
disabled women who are victims of domestic violence or sexual assault.
(11) Providing assistance to victims of domestic violence and sexual assault in immigration
matters.
13
 

  
(12) Maintaining core victim services and criminal justice initiatives, while supporting
complementary new initiatives and emergency services for victims and their families.
(13) Supporting the placement of special victim assistants in local law enforcement agencies
to serve as liaisons between victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
and stalking and personnel in local law enforcement agencies in order to improve the
enforcement of protection orders.
(14) Providing funding to law enforcement agencies, nonprofit nongovernmental victim
services providers, and state, tribal, territorial, and local governments to support a
Domestic Violence Protocol Program to support coordinated, supportive responses to
domestic violence.
By statute, OVW will award a base amount of $600,000 to each State. Funds remaining after the
allocated base amount will be distributed among the States according to population. The most
accurate and complete data compiled by the United States Bureau of the Census is used to
determine the State populations. By statute, Native American Tribal populations are not
included in the population count.

14
 

  

 

 

SECTION 3: VICTIM SERVICE PROVIDER CAPACITY

 

 

VICTIM SERVICE PROVIDER CAPACITY
In qualitative research, researchers look for repetitive themes, or patterns, across multiple
interviews or focus groups. Throughout the research project, a variety of reoccurring themes
were identified during the interviews with victims, victim family members, victim service
providers, and criminal justice professionals. Many of the themes identified are reflected
throughout this document.
One theme, however, offers an important frame for the report: the capacity of service providers.
This theme provides the context needed to understand the organizational and capacity barriers
that service providers experience in working to meet victim needs. As the State’s Administering
Agency for VAWA and VOCA funds, we recognize the need for thoughtful dialog on how to
increase the internal capacity of service providers to assist victims.
The following barriers and concerns emerged about the existing capacity of victim service
providers to adequately meet victim needs:


Staff are burnt out and overextended. Staff report working around the clock to meet
victim needs. While agencies often encourage self-care, providers expressed difficulty
finding time for themselves and their staff to engage in these activities. Furthermore,
salaries that are below a living wage contribute to high staff turnover and additional strain
on agencies and staff.



In light of the budget impasse, referral agencies have dwindled. Across the state,
providers shared how they have seen their referral networks shrink as many agencies have
closed their doors. Mental health agencies as well as organizations that offer support services
to increase the ability of victims to receive treatment, such as childcare, have been
downsized or eliminated.



Waitlists are long. Where services are available waitlists are long. Service providers
reflected on the long waitlist at their agencies as well as agencies to which they refer victims.
They expressed frustration over not being able to meet victims’ needs when they seek help.



Agencies have adapted their services to focus primarily on crisis needs. Victim
service providers said that due to their internal capacity limitations and a high volume of
victims, they have shifted services to focus on victims’ crisis stage and stabilizing victims.
They do not have the capacity to provide needed long-term services.



The lack and uncertainty of funding places strain on service providers. Service
providers noted that the uncertainty of funding, especially given the budget impasse in the
state of Illinois, caused financial and emotional strain on their agencies because their
funding has been uncertain and the lack of funding has decreased their capacity.



Differences in reporting requirements from funders burden providers. Service
providers shared how funders have different reporting requirements and there is a lack of
consistency among these requirements. Providers expressed a desire for funders to convene
to discuss how they might standardize reporting requirements and reduce this burden on
service providers.
16

 

  

 

 

UNDERSERVED GROUPS
Service providers and researchers alike have identified underserved groups that do not seek,
access, or receive formal support services despite being affected by the various crimes examined
for this report. Underserved populations include:






Second language learners.
Elderly.
Homeless.
LGBTQ.
People with disabilities.







People of color.
Males and younger persons.
Victims on college campuses.
Victims with an undocumented immigration status.
Dually-involved persons.

Lack of service engagement is partly due to the lack of existing services. However, it is also the
case that a variety of individual, societal, and cultural factors inhibit victim help seeking,5 and it
is important to acknowledge these factors to remove barriers. This section highlights the
individuals and groups that are underserved and the factors that influence help seeking by these
victims.6
It is important to first acknowledge that not all victims feel they need help and some are able to
adjust and cope without formal support services. Others, however, may not access services
because they are unaware that programs exist or they have negative interactions with
practitioners when they do seek help. One of the main avenues through which individuals
become aware of or access support services is by reporting the crime to law enforcement.
Unfortunately, many victims do not report their crimes to police.
According to data collected through the National Crime Victimization Survey, the most common
reasons given for not reporting serious violent victimizations to police, such as sexual assault,
robbery, and aggravated assault, include the desire to deal with the matter in another way (25
percent), belief that the police would or could not help (21 percent), or fear of reprisal or getting
the offender in trouble (19 percent).7 Even when they do report, negative experiences interacting
with formal systems, such as hospitals and the criminal justice system, may deter victims from
engaging with formal support services.
Case characteristics, such as the victim-offender relationship and the perceived seriousness of
the incident, can also impact victim decisions to seek help.8 Victims may not access services out
of shame or embarrassment or because they do not believe victim services can help.9
Insufficient informal support from family and friends can reduce victim use of support
services,10 as can fear or uncertainty about how others will respond. Past experiences of
receiving negative reactions following disclosure, such as victim-blaming and infantilizing
responses, or the lack of emotional support and validation that the crime occurred may dissuade
victims from future reporting and help seeking.11
Stereotypes and social norms also may impact and inform victims’ decisions to seek help.
Individuals may experience victim-blaming responses due to individual characteristics such as
disability, gender, legal status, race and ethnicity, sexual identity, or social class.12 Stereotypes
about victims and victimization may inform these harmful responses. Males and younger
individuals have been shown to be less likely to seek formal mental health services as compared
18
 
 

  
to women and older victims,13 and this may be partly informed by societal expectations and
stereotypes. Male victims of sexual violence, for example, may fear others will question their
authenticity due to stereotypes that only women are victims of sexual violence or social norms of
masculinity that suggest men should be able to protect themselves.14 Risk-taking and the desire
for independence are common features of adolescence and young adulthood, and young persons
who are victimized while exercising greater independence may self-blame or fear being blamed.
Individuals from marginalized groups, such as members of racial or ethnic minority groups and
the LGBTQ community, may not seek help because they fear (or experienced in the past)
harmful, derogatory, or disbelieving responses to their disclosures. Fears may be further
exacerbated when violent crime is an act of targeted violence against an individual because of
the victim’s race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, ethnicity, gender, or gender identity.15
Cultural factors may also play a role in help seeking decisions. Individuals from different
cultures hold diverse beliefs about help seeking; some victims who are members of particular
racial or ethnic minority groups are more likely to seek help from their informal support
networks, such as family members, friends, and partners, rather than formal support systems of
law enforcement, victim service providers, and healthcare professionals.16 Some cultures or
subgroups may hold stigmatized views of formal support services, particularly mental health
services. Furthermore, the absence of diversity among service providers and a lack of culturally
sensitive services is yet another barrier to accessing help.
Accessibility is a barrier to seeking support services particularly for victims who are elderly, live
in rural areas, whose second language is English, or have a disability. Limited transportation
options, long travel times, and a lack of translation services are major barriers to victims seeking
and accessing services related to their victimization.17 Additionally, information about which
agencies are equipped to provide specialized services or assistance in order for victims to access
services are scarce or are often difficult to identify or locate.
Another underserved group is dually-involved persons, or individuals who are involved with the
criminal or juvenile justice systems as both victims and offenders. Prevalence of past
victimization among those involved in the criminal and juvenile justice systems varies by
gender, level of system involvement, and crime definition. According to the Bureau of Justice
Statistics, prior physical and/or sexual abuse was experienced by 57 percent of females and 16
percent of males residing in adult state prisons in 1999, 48 percent of females and 13 percent of
males residing in local jails, and 40 percent of females and 9 percent of males on adult
probation. Abuse reported by males generally occurred before the age of 18, while females
reported prior abuse before and after the age of 18.18 Similar high rates of victimization
experiences also have been noted among youth involved in the juvenile justice system.19 These
victimization prevalence rates increase when one expands the definition to include experiences
other than physical and sexual abuse. In a sample of 613 males residing in the Illinois
Department of Corrections in 2015, for instance, ICJIA researchers found that 61 percent had
experienced a physical assault and 18 percent had lost a loved one to a violent death.20
Dually-involved persons have faced barriers in accessing services for many reasons. These
include lack of awareness or acknowledgement of prior victimization experiences by criminal
and juvenile justice practitioners, limited program availability for persons who are justice
system-involved or have violent crime histories.
19
 
 

  

                                                            

McCart, M. R., Smith, D. W., & Sawyer, G. K. (2010). Help seeking among victims of crime: A review of
the empirical literature. Journal of Traumatic Stress, 23, 198-206.
6 Although this section focuses on underserved populations, it is recognized that the factors identified in
this section may also to some degree affect victim help seeking generally.
7 Langton, L., Berzofsky, M., Krebs, C. & Smiley-McDonald, H. (2012). Victimizations not reported to the
police, 2006-2010 (NCJ Pub No. 238536). Washington, DC: Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice
Statistics.
8 See McCart et al. (2010).
9 Institute of State and Regional Affairs (2013). Crime victim needs: Insights from research. Harrisburg,
PA: Pennsylvania Commission on Crime and Delinquency. Available at: http://www.pccd.pa.gov/VictimServices/Documents/Volume%20VI%20final.pdf
10 Ullman SE, Brecklin LR. (2002). Sexual assault history, PTSD, and mental health service seeking in a
national sample of women. Journal of Community Psychology, 30, 261–279.
11Liang, B., Goodman, L., Tummala-Narra, P., & Weintraub, S. (2005). A theoretical framework for
understanding help-seeking processes among survivors of intimate partner violence. American Journal of
Community Psychology, 36, 71-84.
12 Adams, M. E., & Campbell, J. (2012). Being undocumented & intimate partner violence (IPV): Multiple
vulnerabilities through the lens of feminist intersectionality. Women's Health and Urban Life, 11, 15-34.
13 See McCart et al. (2010).
14 Tsui, V., Cheung, M., & Leung, P. (2010). Help‐seeking among male victims of partner abuse: Men's
hard times. Journal of Community Psychology, 38, 769-780.
15 Federal Bureau of Investigations. (2016). Hate crimes. Retrieved from
https://www.fbi.gov/investigate/civil-rights/hate-crimes
16 El-Khoury, M. Y., Dutton, M. A., Goodman, L. A., Engel, L., Belamaric, R. J., & Murphy, M. (2004).
Ethnic differences in battered women’s formal help-seeking strategies: A focus on health, mental health,
and spirituality. Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology, 10, 383–393. See also McCart et al.,
2010.
17 See McCart, Smith, & Sawyer, 2010.
Schneider, D. C., Mosqueda, L., Falk, E., & Huba, G. J. (2010). Elder abuse forensic centers. Journal of
Elder Abuse & Neglect, 22(3-4), 255-274.
18Harlow, C. W. (1999). Prior abuse reported by inmates and probationers (NCJ Pub No. 172879).
Washington, DC: Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics. Available at:
http://www.bjs.gov/index.cfm?ty=pbdetail&iid=837
19 Hawkins, J. D., Herrenkohl, T. I., Farrington, D. P., Brewer, D., Catalano, R. F., Harachi, T. W., &
Cothern, L. (2000). Predictors of youth violence (NCJ Pub No. 179065). Washington, DC: Department of
Justice, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
20 Reichert, J., Cantrell, D., Gleicher, L., & Konefal, K. (in press). Trauma and posttraumatic stress in a
sample of men prisoners. Chicago, IL: Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority.
5

20
 
 

       

   

. . . t5." . "In 
x. a ?mayCOMMUNITY VIOLENCE

SECTION 5

 

 

Trends and Characteristics
Exposure to community violence is defined as experiencing or witnessing violence in one’s
home, school, work, or neighborhood. This can include homicide, gun violence, interpersonal
and domestic violence, sexual violence, robbery, and aggravated or simple assault. No single
source of data on community violence exists in Illinois, and some types of community violence
go unreported or are reported only to non-law enforcement entities such as school personnel
(e.g., bullying) or private security (e.g., workplace violence).
Violent Index crime data on murder, criminal sexual assault, aggravated assault, and robbery21
reported to the Illinois State Police is one measure of community violence prevalence in Illinois.
Analysis of this data indicates that the violent Index crime rate in 2015 was 65-percent lower
than the rate in 1993, when violent crime peaked in Illinois. Despite this decline, 48,003 reports
of violent Index crimes were made to police in 2015. Most reports were for aggravated assault
(and battery) or robbery.

Violent Index Crime Rate and Composition (2015)
Murder
1%

Aggravated 
Assault
58%

Robbery
31%

Criminal 
Sexual 
Assault
10%

Source: Illinois Uniform Crime Reporting (I‐UCR) data, Illinois State Police 

Exposure to community violence can be particularly harmful to children and adolescents.
According to national surveys, it is estimated that seven of every 10 youth between the ages of 14
and 17 years have experienced a physical assault, almost two of every 10 youth have been
physically assaulted with a weapon, and nearly seven of every 10 youth have witnessed violence
in their home or community in their lifetimes.22 Prevalence rates are even higher among youth
of color living in poor urban communities. Surveys of these youth indicate that between 50 and
90 percent of youth in these communities have experienced or witnessed violence in their
homes, schools, and neighborhoods.23
Impact
Exposure to community violence can result in serious long-term negative outcomes for youth
and adults. Community violence is unpredictable, and experiencing or witnessing community
violence can increase fear, distrust among community members, and feelings that communities,
22
 

  
homes, and schools are unsafe. Furthermore, individuals may face multiple forms of
victimization, contributing to more complex trauma symptoms. Childhood and adolescent
community violence exposure is associated with increased internalizing (anxiety disorder, Major
Depressive Disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder [PTSD]) and externalizing (oppositional
defiant disorder, conduct disorder) behaviors and trauma symptomology in children and
adolescents.24
Community violence exposure also can increase parental and family stress and conflict, further
impacting the long-term well-being and adjustment of children and adolescents. Adolescent
males may be particularly vulnerable to exposure to community violence when family support
declines.25 Similarly, adults may experience negative outcomes, including anxiety, depression,
PTSD, or other symptoms following exposure to community violence during childhood,
adolescence, and adulthood.
Needs and Service Gaps
Surveys and focus groups with service providers indicated the high priority needs of victims and
several gaps in existing services in Illinois. Below are the major crisis (0-3 months),
intermediate (3-6 months), and long-term (6 months and beyond) services needs of victims
identified in ICJIA’s survey of victim service providers:

Crisis Intervention

Emergency Housing
CJS Info and Advocacy
Permanent Housing &
Counseling
Life Skills

Mental Health
Discussions with service providers and criminal justice practitioners indicated there is a need
for early intervention points that increase access and referral to victim services. Hospitals and
police agencies are often the first to come into contact with direct victims of community
violence, yet both service providers and criminal justice practitioners acknowledged these
entities typically have little to no existing advocacy or initial support services to offer victims.
Schools also represent an intervention point for children and youth exposed to community
violence and research indicates that school-based programs can be effective in producing
positive outcomes for children and youth exposed to violence.26
23
 

  

Involvement of the entire family in support, counseling, and mental health services should be
considered when treating children and youth, particularly when community violence exposure
results in an increase in family stress and conflict. This includes providing services to very young
children. Research indicates that early intervention services for children under 5 years old and
their parents can decrease social-emotional delays, problem behaviors, and parental distress.27
Housing and relocation services also are needed for victims and witnesses to violent crime as
these individuals may fear or experience retaliation, particularly when cases move forward to
prosecution.
Regional gaps in services were noted; the data analyzed and discussions with service providers
and criminal justice practitioners suggest that large portions of the state do not have services
that address the needs of victims exposed to homicide, gun violence, robbery, or non-domestic
related aggravated and simple assaults. However, knowing what services are needed is
challenging at the state-level. The definition of community violence used here and in the
literature encompasses a wide range of crimes. To best address community violence exposure in
the most comprehensive manner, city and county administrators, government agencies,
community leaders, and victim service providers should consider the types of community
violence occurring in their jurisdictions and individuals who are exposed to that violence.

                                                            

21 Violent Index crimes do not cover all offenses considered community violence. For instance, they do not
include simple assault and misdemeanor-level interpersonal violence.
22 Finkelhor, D., Turner, H., Shattuck, A., Hamby, S., & Kracke, K. (2015). Children’s exposure to violence,
crime and abuse: An update (NCJ Pub No. 248547). Washington, DC: Department of Justice, Office of
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. Available at: https://www.ojjdp.gov/pubs/248547.pdf
23 Gaylord-Harden, N. K., So, S., Bai, G. J., Henry, D. B., & Tolan, P. H. (2016). Examining the pathologic
adaptation model of community violence exposure in male adolescents of color. Journal of Clinical Child
& Adolescent Psychology, 1-11.
24 Cecil, C. A., Viding, E., Barker, E. D., Guiney, J., & McCrory, E. J. (2014). Double disadvantage: The
influence of childhood maltreatment and community violence exposure on adolescent mental health.
Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 55(7), 839-848. DOI 10.1111/jcpp.12213
25 Holtzman, R. J., & Roberts, M. C. (2012). The role of family conflict in the relation between exposure to
community violence and depressive symptoms. Journal of Community Psychology, 40(2), 264-275. DOI:
10.1002/jcop.20511
26 Stein, B. D., Jaycox, L. H., Kataoka, S. H., Wong, M., Tu, W., Elliot, M. N., & Fink, A. A mental health
intervention for schoolchildren exposed to violence: A randomized controlled trial. Journal of the
American Medical Association, 290(5), 603-611.
27 Delong, C. & Alderden, M. (2016). Addressing child exposure to violence. Chicago, IL: Illinois Criminal
Justice Information Authority. Available at: http://www.icjia.state.il.us/articles/addressing-childexposure-to-violence

24
 

  

 

Rate of reported homicide per 100,0002 in the general population
(3 year weighted average, 2013-2015)3
22

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

534

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

16

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

18

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

32

Scott

Morgan

Calhoun
Jersey

0.01 - 1.99
2.00 - 3.99

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Effingham

Madison

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair
Monroe

Washington

Randolph

Jefferson

Jasper Crawford

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin

4.00 - 16.55
Jackson

ICJIA-funded homicide Survivor
service provider

Clark

Bond

Homicide rate
No homicides reported

Edgar

Moultrie
Christian

Greene

Legend

Douglas

Sangamon

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

                                                            

Homicide is the only crime where rates are presented by 100,000 because homicides are often more
prevalent in large, urban areas where populations sizes are larger.
3 Pull-out boxes are the top 5 counties for homicides in 2015.
2

26
 

  

Trends and Characteristics
There were 724 homicides reported in Illinois in 2015. The 2016 figure is expected to be notably
higher as data released by the Chicago Police Department indicates a significant increase in
homicides occurring in Chicago in 2016. How much and whether areas outside Chicago will also
report an increase is unknown.
Estimates on the number of surviving friends and family members of homicide victims (i.e.,
homicide survivors) ranges from as low as three to as high as 7-10 homicide survivors.28 Using
the more conservative estimate (three) 29, in 2015, 2,172 surviving family members or loved ones
were impacted by homicide in Illinois. Using this same estimate, over the last 10 years, an
estimated 22,830 surviving family members or loved ones were impacted.
Number of Homicides and Homicide Survivors in Illinois 1985-2015
4500
4000
3500
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
1985

1987

1989

1991

1993

1995

1997

1999

2001

Homicide Survivors (3 Per Victim)

2003

2005

2007

2009

2011

2013

2015

Homicides in Illinois

Source: Illinois Uniform Crime Reporting (I-UCR) data, Illinois State Police

Crime is not evenly dispersed, and this is particularly true of violent crime. The impact of violent
crime such as homicide is often heavily concentrated within small number of neighborhoods,
many of which also experience other types of social and economic disadvantages, including
poverty, underemployment, and poor educational outcomes. Neighborhoods in Illinois
experiencing these concentrated disadvantages are often communities of color.
Statewide data on the characteristics of homicide victims in Illinois are limited. The state
stopped collecting detailed data on homicides in the early 1990s and only recently reinstituted
its Supplemental Homicide Reporting Program.30 Data are available, however, for the cities of
Chicago and Rockford through the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s 2014 Uniform Crime
Reporting Supplemental Homicide Report.31 These data confirm that young, Black males, and,
consequently, their families and communities bear the burden of homicide in these cities.
Impact
In the aftermath of a homicide, surviving family members and loved ones face a variety of
obstacles and challenges. Individuals often experience anxiety, depression, and PTSD after the
27
 

  
loss of a loved one to homicide.32 Children and youth tend to display stronger emotional
reactions following the homicide, such as anger and blame, demonstrate more aggressive
changes in behavior, and are at a higher risk of future exposure to violence.33 Other
psychological responses, such as feelings of guilt about what more the survivor could have done
to prevent the homicide and the process of coping with life without a loved one further
complicate the grieving process.34 Additionally, research has found that individuals lose a sense
of security and safety in their neighborhood following the homicide of a loved one. This can
contribute to economic stress and social isolation because survivors do not feel they are able to
safely leave their homes.35 Survivors may feel further isolated if support systems respond
insensitively or stigmatize the homicide victim and their loved ones.36 Not addressing these
needs may greatly impact a survivor’s ability to grieve or return to managing their daily
responsibilities. Additionally, many families experience multiple losses and are impacted by
multiple forms of violence, further complicating the trauma and their grieving experience.37
Service Needs and Gaps
The figures below highlight the most important crisis, intermediate, and long-term needs of
surviving family members and loved ones as reported by victim service providers.

CJS Info & Advocacy

Crisis Intervention

Counseling

Mental Health

Life Skills

Immediate crisis intervention is crucial to survivors in the aftermath of a homicide to meet
pressing needs, such as childcare, crime scene clean-up, de-escalation, and guidance with
funeral arrangements, and to connect survivors to longer-term resources.38

Following the immediate crisis, survivors may be in need of long-term services to manage and
cope with the aftermath of the homicide. Counseling, in particular, was identified as a key need
of surviving family members or loved ones. Long-term counseling beyond crisis intervention
and support is needed to help survivors process their grief. Research suggests counseling and

support services to access compensation funds, support groups, and other resources may ease
additional stressors, such as financial strain, lack of social support, and difficulty navigating the
criminal justice system, and improve mental health outcomes.39
Additionally, survivors may have difficult experiences with the criminal justice system or
hospitals. Adequate information on navigating the criminal justice system, for instance, is not
always provided to surviving family members or loved ones of homicide victims. Survivors
shared that they felt ill-informed about the criminal justice system process and did not feel
prepared for lengthy criminal proceedings.40 The lack of information and support during
criminal justice proceedings can cause further distress, complicate the grieving process, and
28
 

  
exacerbate the psychological impacts of loss. Coordinated responses between advocates and law
enforcement agencies may help to address this need.
Currently, few programs directly serve survivors of homicide. Only one program specifically
provides comprehensive support and services to homicide victims, but this service is only
available to those living in Chicago. Other cities experiencing notable numbers of homicides in
Illinois may benefit from programs that provide specific services to homicide victims.

                                                            

Ahmed, F.E., & Feldman, M. (1999). Survivors for violence prevention: National policy report.
Unpublished Manuscript. Boston, MA: Harvard School of Public Health, Division of Public Health
Practice.
Redmond, L. M. (1989). Surviving: When someone you love was murdered. Clearwater, FL:
Psychological Consultation and Educational Services Inc.
29 See Ahmed & Feldman (1999).
30 See http://www.icjia.org/articles/about-uniform-crime-reporting-program-data for more information.
31 Data can be accessed at: http://doi.org/10.3886/ICPSR36393.v1 through the Inter-university
Consortium for Political and Social Research.
32 Aldrich, H., & Kallivayalil, D. (2013). The impact of homicide on survivors and clinicians. Journal of
Loss and Trauma, 18, 362-377.
33 Connolly, J., & Gordon, R. (2015). Co-victims of homicide: A systematic review of the literature.
Trauma, Violence, & Abuse, 16, 494-505.
34 Office for Victims of Crime. (2012). Homicide. Office for Victims of Crime Training and Technical
Assistance Center’s website:
https://www.ovcttac.gov/downloads/views/TrainingMaterials/NVAA/Documents_NVAA2011/Resource
Papers/Color_Homicide%20Resource%20Paper_2012%20_final_508c%209%2017%202012.pdf.
Spungen, D. (1998). Homicide: the hidden victims: A resource for professionals (Vol. 20). Thousand
Oaks, CA: Sage.
35 Masters, R., Friedman, L. N., & Getzel, G. (1988). Helping families of homicide victims: A
multidimensional approach. Journal of Traumatic Stress, 1, 109-125.
See OVC, 2012.
36 See Connolly & Gordon, 2015.
37 Vincent, N. J., McCormack, J., & Johnson, S. (2015). A comprehensive conceptual program model for
supporting families surviving a homicide victim. Child and Adolescent Social Work Journal, 32, 57-64.
38 See Vincent, McCormack, & Johnson, 2015.
39 Asaro, M. R. (2009). Working with adult homicide survivors, Part II: Helping family members cope
with murder. Perspectives in Psychiatric Care, 37, 115-124.
See Spungen, 1998.
See Vincent, McCormack, & Johnson, 2015.
40 King, K. (2004). It hurts so bad: Comparing grieving patterns of the families of murder victims with
those of families of death row inmates. Criminal Justice Policy Review, 15, 193–211.
Rinear, E. E. (1988). Psychosocial aspects of parental response patterns to the death of a child by
homicide. Journal of Traumatic Stress, 1, 305–322.
Vincent, N. J., McCormack, J., & Johnson, S. (2015). A comprehensive conceptual program model for
supporting families surviving a homicide victim. Child and Adolescent Social Work Journal, 32, 57-64.
28

29
 

 SECTION 7: IMPAIRED DRIVING-RELATED CRASHES

 

 

Total alcohol-related vehicular fatalities, 2013-2015
 
Jo Daviess

 

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone

 
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Effingham

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair

Number of alcohol-related
Legend

Monroe

Washington

Jasper Crawford

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White
Franklin

Jackson

No alcohol-related vehicular fatalities reported

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

1-2
3-6

Jefferson

Perry

Randolph

vehicular fatalities

Clark

Bond

Madison

Legend

Edgar

Moultrie

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

7 - 213

ICJIA-funded alcohol-related crash
victim service provider
Non-ICJIA, state funded alcohol-related
crash victim service provider

31
 

  

Trends and Characteristics
Impaired driving refers to instances in which drivers are engaged in activities that have been
determined to diminish one’s ability to safely operate motorized vehicles or devices and are by
statute prohibited. Impaired driving can result from alcohol or drug use as well as behaviors that
distract drivers, such as texting while driving.
There is a limited amount of data on the various types of impaired driving-related crashes and
fatalities in Illinois. The most widely available data is on alcohol-related crashes and fatalities.
The Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) tracks alcohol-related crashes and fatalities
each year. These data indicate alcohol-related crashes and fatalities decreased 43 percent
between 2006 and 2015, from 446 to 261. Cook County had the highest number of alcoholinvolved crash fatalities in 2015 (94), followed by Madison (14), Will (14), St. Clair (12), and
Lake (10) counties.
Number of alcohol-related crashes and fatalities, 2006-2015
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
2006

2007

2008

2009

2010
Fatalities

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

Crashes

Source: Illinois Department of Transportation

According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 237 people sustained fatal
injuries in 2015, accounting for 90 percent of the alcohol-related crash injuries in Illinois.
Further data on injuries reveals that drivers were the most likely to sustain fatal injuries in an
alcohol-related crash (72 percent), followed by pedestrians (13 percent), and passengers (12
percent).41 It is unknown, however, whether drivers in the crash who sustained fatal injuries
were those who were intoxicated. Males accounted for 81 percent of alcohol-related vehicular
deaths. Forty-seven percent of victims were between the ages of 18 and 35 years. Of those who
survived an alcohol-related crash (26), 11 people sustained serious injury (42 percent). Of those
who sustained a serious injury, all but one were drivers (91 percent), 82 percent were male, and
64 percent were between the ages of 18 and 35 years.
Impact
Impaired driving-related crashes impact both primary and secondary victims. Primary surviving
victims of a crash often experience severe bodily harm or disfigurement impacting all areas of
32
 

  
life and potentially result in financial strain. Primary victims may experience psychological
impacts of the crime, including depression, PTSD, and heightened feelings of vulnerability, all of
which may impact their sleep and daily functioning.42 For these victims, the physical,
psychological, and financial impact of the crime can change their lives drastically, lasting years
after the crash.43
Surviving family members or loved ones (secondary victims) face similar challenges as those
who have lost a loved one to homicide. For instance, PTSD, a common experience of surviving
family members of homicide victims also is common among surviving loved ones of victims of
vehicular homicides.44 A nationally representative sample of surviving family members showed
that 28 percent developed PTSD in their lifetimes.45 Depression and other feelings, such as guilt
or belief that the crime was preventable, also are common.46
Service Needs and Gaps
When asked about the particular needs of victims of impaired driving-related crashes or
fatalities, service providers ranked the following as most crucial crisis, intermediate, and longterm services needed.

Counseling

CJS Info & Advocacy

Crisis Intervention

Info & Advocacy on
Public Resources

Mental Health

Life Skills

Permanent Housing &
Victim Compensation
Information on public resources and assistance with crime victims compensation may be
particularly important for primary victims who need expensive, continued care and support.
Primary victims face a host of needs, including speicalized medical attention both immediately
after the accident and long-term.47 Some primary victims may need years of medical treatment
and surgery for their crash-related injuries.48 Such treatments are often expensive and
sometimes difficult to access due to long travel times, which may pose an added difficulty for
those who have sustained debilitating injuries. Advocates who are able to assist victims in
accessing information and trained in completing victim compensation applications may be key
to obtaining needed treatment and services for victims.
Primary and secondary victims may need assistance navigating a “new normal” and accessing
counseling services and support to heal physically and emotionally from their experiences.
33
 

  
Continued work is needed in the area of criminal justice information and advocacy.49 For
primary and secondary victims, the criminal justice process may be long and a lack of knowledge
about how the system works may cause further distress. Advocates may be key in providing
information and assistance with the criminal justice system.
Mapping the number of alcohol-related crashes and fatalities in 2015 and available services for
their victims and surviving victims indicated service gaps throughout the state. Will and Lake
counties experienced slightly more crashes and fatalities in 2015 than the statewide average.
While the main offices of service providers for this victim population are located in Cook County
and through one statewide provider who is located in DuPage County, further funding for
victims of impaired driving-related crashes and fatalities is warranted and should consider how
these services are reaching victims in counties that have been most affected by the crime.

                                                            

Data can be accessed through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration: http://wwwfars.nhtsa.dot.gov/Main/index.aspx
42 Office for Victims of Crime. (2012). Impaired driving. Office for Victims of Crime Training and
Technical Assistance Center’s website:
https://www.ovcttac.gov/downloads/views/TrainingMaterials/NVAA/Documents_NVAA2011/Resource
Papers/Color_Impaired%20Driving%20Resource%20Paper%202012_%20final_508c%20_%209_13_2
012.pdf.
43 https://www.ncjrs.gov/ovc_archives/reports/firstrep2001/alcohol.html.
44 Amick-McMullan, A., Kilpatrick, D. G., & Resnick, H. S. (1991). Homicide as a risk factor for PTSD
among surviving family members. Behavior Modification, 15, 545-559.
45 Ibid.
46 See OVC, 2012.
47 See OVC, 2012.
48 See OVC, 2012.
49 See OVC, 2012.
41

34
 

 SECTION 8: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE

 

 

Rate of reported domestic Index offenses per 10,000 in the general population,
2015

Jo Daviess

 
Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Morgan

Scott

Edgar

Moultrie
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Legend

Effingham

Madison

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair

0.01 - 15.9

Monroe

31.0 - 55.9

Clark

Jasper Crawford

Bond

Rate of reported domestic offenses
16.0 - 30.9

Douglas

Sangamon

Washington

Randolph

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin

56.0 - 235.4
Jackson

ICJIA-funded domestic violence
victim service provider
Non-ICJIA, state funded
domestic violence victim service
provider

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

Domestic violence victim service
provider satellite location

36
 

  

Trends and Characteristics
More than 106,000 offenses occurring between family and household members50 were reported
to law enforcement in Illinois in 2015, and just more than half were in Chicago. For a variety of
reasons, many domestic violence victims choose not to report crimes to police.51 Based on 2015
national estimates of domestic violence reporting to police, an estimated additional 78,017
offenses occurred that same year in Illinois but were never reported.52
Additional indicators that help gauge prevalence of domestic violence include orders of
protection issued in Illinois courts, and the number of victims (adults and child witnesses) who
received services from domestic violence service providers. These sources include some victims
who did not report crimes to police. All three indicators show domestic violence trends
remained relatively stable or decreased slightly over the past decade.

Statewide Indicators of Domestic Violence
140000
120000
100000
80000
60000
40000
20000
0
2006

2007

2008

Orders of protection issued*

2009

2010

2011

Victims and Children Served

2012

2013

2014

2015

Offenses reported to law enforcement

* Orders of protection data not yet available for 2015.
Sources: Illinois Uniform Crime Reporting (I‐UCR) data, Illinois State Police; InfoNet System, Illinois Criminal Justice Information 
Authority, and domestic violence service providers; Administrative Office of the Illinois Courts 

Victim demographic data were available on crimes reported to police and on those who received
services from domestic violence service providers. In 2015, data indicated women and persons
20 to 39 years old accounted for the largest percentages of victims receiving services, at 86
percent and 53 percent, respectively. They also accounted for the largest percentage of victims of
offenses reported to police, at 74 percent and 60 percent, respectively. White and Black victims
accounted for the largest proportions of victims who received services, at 47 percent and 27
percent, respectively, and for reported offenses to police, at 35 percent and 52 percent,
respectively.
Impact
Domestic violence is associated with a myriad of adverse victim outcomes, and victims who are
exposed to repeated violence over time are at greater risk of experiencing them.53 Beyond
physical injuries, victims of domestic violence also may experience anxiety, depression, PTSD
symptoms, inability to trust others, emotional detachment, sleep disturbances, flashbacks, and
37
 

  
suicidal behavior.54 Isolation from social networks, strained relationships with health providers
and employers, and homelessness also occur.55
Experience with domestic violence also elevates one’s risk for future victimization 56 and
offending57 and is linked to other forms of violence. Adults who are violent toward their partners
are more likely to abuse their children.58 Youth who have been abused by a dating partner are
more likely to have suffered abuse as a child, been a victim of sexual assault, or witnessed family
violence.59 Youth who bully others are more likely to have witnessed intimate partner violence
than those who do not bully.60
Service Needs and Gaps
Service providers who provide direct services to domestic violence victims ranked the services
below as most crucial during the following times:

Crisis Intervention

Info & Advocacy on
Public Resources

Emergency Housing

Life Skills &
Permanent Housing

Counseling
During interviews61 and focus groups, domestic violence victims described limited resources for
emergency shelter and long wait times for those that were available. In state fiscal year 2016
(FY16), 5,554 adults and their 6,240 children were turned away from domestic violence
emergency shelters due to lack of bed space.62 Providers noted that longer term housing is an
unmet need for victims, including male victims as there are few options available. Furthermore,
permanent housing options may be non-existent for those with limited means or income.
Additionally, providers identified counseling as an important need for victims after crisis and
emergency services. Victims often need help securing employment, child care, and other
resources unique to their individualized safety plan and longer term goals, such as legal services.
In particular, there is a need for legal assistance with family law cases. Without these services,
victims often return to their prior living situation and abusive patterns are more likely to be
repeated.
Addressing needs of child witnesses to violence is another area of concern. Some victims
indicated counseling services were rarely offered for other household members and data
supports this concern. In FY16, providers served more than 43,000 adult victims, of whom 77
percent were parents, with more than 70,000 minor children living with them at least part time.
Only 8,167 of these children received services from a domestic violence service provider.63
As represented in the map, counties with higher rates of domestic offense in 2015 were most
concentrated in the northeastern and central regions of the state. Some southern counties had
38
 

  
higher rates and the region appears to have fewer resources. Victims in this region often must
travel longer distances to access services. Ideally, every county, particularly those with higher
offense rates, would have access to community-based domestic violence services.
                                                            

Illinois Domestic Violence Act of 1986 (750 ILCS 60/) defines family or household members as current
and former spouses, parents, children, stepchildren and other persons related by blood or by present or
prior marriage, persons who share or formerly shared a common dwelling, persons who have or allegedly
have a child in common, persons who share or allegedly share a blood relationship through a child,
persons who have or have had a dating relationship, persons with disabilities and their personal
assistants, and caregivers.
51 Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics. (October 2016). Criminal Victimization, 2015 (NCJ
250180). Retrieved from http://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/cv15.pdf.
52 See BJS, 2016.
53 Johnson M. P., Leone, J. M. (2005). The differential effects of intimate terrorism and situational couple
violence. J Fam Issues, 26(3): 322–349.
54 Black M. C. (2011). Intimate partner violence and adverse health consequences: implications for
clinicians. Am J Lifestyle Med, 5(5):428-439.
Coker A. L., Davis K. E., Arias I, Desai S, Sanderson M, Brandt H. M., et al. (2002). Physical and mental
health effects of intimate partner violence for men and women. Am J Prev Med, 23(4): 260–268.
Warshaw C., Brashler B., Gil J. (2009). Mental health consequences of intimate partner violence. In
Mitchell C., Anglin D., Eds. Intimate partner violence: a health- based perspective. New York: Oxford
University Press: 147-171.
55 See Warshaw, Brashler, Gil, 2009.
U.S. Conference of Mayors—Sodexho. (2005). Hunger and Homelessness Survey: A status report on
hunger and homelessness in America’s cities, a 25-city survey. Washington, DC: Author.
56 Finkelhor, D., Ormrod, R. K., & Turner, H. A. (2007). Re-victimization Patterns in a National
Longitudinal Sample of Children and Youth. Child Abuse & Neglect, 31(5), 479-502. Retrieved from
https://www.ncjrs.gov/App/Publications/abstract.aspx?ID=240708.
Trickett, P. K., Noll, J. G., & Putnam, F. W. (2011). The impact of sexual abuse on female development:
lessons from a multigenerational, longitudinal research study. Development and Psychopathology, 23(2),
453-476.
Hamby, S., Finkelhor, D., & Turner, H. (2012). Teen dating violence: co-occurrence with other
victimizations in the National Survey of Children’s Exposure to Violence (NatSCEV). Psychology of
Violence, 2(2), 111-124. Retrieved from
https://www.ncjrs.gov/App/publications/abstract.aspx?ID=260431.
57 McCollister, K. E., French, M. T., & Fang, H. (2010). The Cost of Crime to Society: New Crime-Specific
Estimates for Policy and Program Evaluation. Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 108(1-2), 98-109.
Max, W., Rice, D. P., Finkelstein, E., Bardwell, R. A., & Leadbetter, S. (2004). The economic toll of
intimate partner violence against women in the United States. Violence and Victims, 19(3), 259-272.
Follman, M., Lurie, J., Lee, J., & West, J. (April 15, 2015). The true cost of gun violence. Mother Jones
(May/June 2015). Retrieved from http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/04/true-cost-of-gunviolence-in-america.
58 Knickerbocker L., Heyman, R. E., Smith Slep A. M., Jouriles, E. N., and McDonald, R. (2007). Cooccurrence of child and partner maltreatment. European Psychologist, 12(1): 36-44.
59 See Hamby, Finkelhor, & Turner (2012)
60 Baldry, A. C. Bullying in schools and exposure to domestic violence. Child Abuse & Neglect. 2003;
27(7):713-732.
McKenna, M., Hawk, E., Mullen, J., and Hertz, M. (2011). Bullying among middle school and high school
students—Massachusetts, 2009. MMWR Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, 60(15):465-471.
61 Interviews conducted by Aeffect in 2016 through an ICJIA funded project.
62 Source: InfoNet System, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority and domestic violence service
providers. Figures may include some duplication as turn-away data are summed to yield a statewide total.
63 Source: InfoNet System, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority and domestic violence service
providers.
50

39
 

  

 

Rate of reported sexual violence per 10,000 in the general population, 2015

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon

Edgar

Moultrie
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette
Madison

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair

Sexual violence rate

Monroe

0.01 - 1.49

Washington

Randolph

1.50 - 2.99
3.00 - 5.19
5.20 - 12.19

Jasper Crawford

Bond

Legend
None reported

Effingham

Clark

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin
Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

ICJIA-funded sexual violence victim
service provider
Non-ICJIA-funded, state-funded
sexual violence victim service
provider
Sexual violence victim service
provider satellite location

41
 

  

Trends and Characteristics
According to I-UCR, sexual violence includes rape, defined as both completed and attempted
sexual penetration without consent.64 The Illinois Uniform Crime Reporting (I-UCR) data
maintained by the Illinois State Police indicate that reported incidents of rape have decreased in
the past decade. Data from InfoNet, which tracks the number of clients receiving services for
sexual victimization in a given year, reflects a slightly different trend with fluctuating numbers
from year to year. It is important to note that InfoNet numbers do not speak to the number of
incidents in a year, but rather the number of people who sought services related to their sexual
victimization in a given year regardless of when the violence occurred.
Sexual victimization is a largely underreported crime, partially illustrated in a comparison of the
number of rapes reported to police and the number of victims receiving services for sexual
victimization (represented in the graph below, I-UCR and InfoNet, respectively). A tally of
victims receiving services, however, also likely underestimates the prevalence of sexual
victimization given it only captures those who receive services. National estimates indicate that
only 33 percent of sexual assaults were reported to police in 2015.65 Using the national rate of
unreported sexual assaults to extrapolate numbers for Illinois, the total number of rapes in 2015
would be just over 14,000.

10000
9000
8000
7000
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
0

Statewide Indicators of Sexual Violence

9798

9469

9173

9065

5729

5625

5646

5316

2006

2007

2008

2009

9517

9472

9520

4533

4383

4330

2010

2011

2012

9001

8978

3960

4236

2013

2014

9122

4606

2015

Sources: Illinois Uniform Crime Reporting (I-UCR) data, Illinois State Police; InfoNet System, Illinois Criminal Justice Information
InfoNet UCR
Authority

InfoNet data reveal that while sexual assault is a crime that disproportionally impacts women, in
2015, 11 percent of clients seeking services from agencies using InfoNet were male. In addition,
individuals ages 20 to 29 years accounted for the highest percentage of help-seeking clients (23
percent) and an increasing number of Hispanic victims are seeking services. Since 2006 the
number of Hispanic victims seeking services for sexual assault has nearly doubled; Hispanics
represented 12 percent of clients in 2006 and 21 percent in 2015.

42
 

  
Impact
Victims of sexual violence may experience any number of negative physical and psychological
health outcomes as a result of their victimization. Women who experience sexual assault are
more likely to experience PTSD, depression,66 and anxiety during their lifetime. Furthermore,
while some symptoms of PTSD emerge shortly after the assault, a number of survivors have
PTSD symptoms that persist for years.67 Research also indicates that survivors of sexual assault
may use alcohol to cope with their victimization, i.e. as a form of self-medication. Studies on
sexual assault have shown that nearly two-thirds of sexually victimized women will be sexually
re-victimized.68 Furthermore, as most assaults are committed by a person known to the victim,
victims may have subsequent interactions with the offender that negatively affect their ability to
cope and recover. Sexual violence can disrupt a victim’s ability to engage in day-to-day activities,
including work and school, which may cause financial burden or emotional distress that impacts
their long-term safety and stability.
Service Needs and Gaps
Service providers who provide direct services to sexual violence victims ranked the following
services as the most crucial during the following times:

Crisis Intervention

Children’s Services

Victim Compensation &
Permanent Housing

CJS Info & Advocacy

Counseling
Sexual violence victim services providers identified the importance of counseling services at all
stages of the recovery process for victims of sexual violence. They asserted the importance of
providing victims with individual counseling, but reported they have been unable to offer the
service due to decreasing staff and funding capacity. To adapt, providers reported offering more
group counseling opportunities, but the lack of privacy has led some victims to disengage from
services.
Victims also are in need of civil and criminal legal information, advocacy, and services. In
addition to assistance in navigating the reporting process and obtaining a civil no contact order,
victims benefit from new areas of legal remedy, specifically victim rights enforcement in
criminal proceedings, including protection of privacy by quashing subpoena for personal records
and testimonial accommodations to minimize re-traumatization of the victim. Victims may need
advocacy for legal matters related to housing, employment, and in the case of campus-based
assaults, advocacy to continue their education in a safe, secure manner on campus.
43
 

  
Stakeholders, victim service providers, and victims identified other needs and gaps in services
for sexual violence victims. The availability of Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners (SANEs) is
extremely limited throughout the state; based on the number of licensed SANEs in Illinois they
could at best staff one-third of hospitals on a full-time basis. The labor cost of the SANE
program does inhibit the ability of health care systems to expand this needed service without
funding specific to this program. Additionally, the need for multidisciplinary responses to sexual
violence that incorporate a variety of responders was highlighted by victim service providers,
which research suggests may expedite or enhance victim services through increased
communication, problem-solving, and colocation of diverse responders.69
Providers serving sexual violence victims noted the need to offer resources to help victims
develop life skills that build safety and stability, such as employment assistance and safety
planning, and emphasized the importance of creating programs or job trainings that will enable
victims to earn a living wage. In addition to life skills, other support service needs of victims
include housing and transportation. Several victim service providers reported having little to no
transitional and long-term housing resources for victims of sexual violence in the areas they
serve. Transportation needs also are often unmet, particularly in more rural communities. Even
victims in more urban areas make several connections via public transportation to attend court
or to receive services, often relying on providers for transportation funds. Budget cuts have led
to decreasing availability of such funds.
Regional analyses reveal further gaps in victim services. Victim service providers are primarily
situated in the northern part of the state, particularly in Cook County. Several counties in
southern Illinois have relatively high rates of sexual violence with no known service provider in
the region. In addition, these areas are largely rural and transportation is limited, further
inhibiting victims’ ability to access the services they need.  
 
 
 
                                                            

Illinois State Police (n.d.) Crime in Illinois, 2015.
http://www.isp.state.il.us/docs/cii/cii15/cii15_Intro_Pg1_to_10.pdf
65 Truman, J. L., & Morgan, R. E. (2016). Criminal victimization, 2015. U.S. Department of Justice.
https://www.bjs.gov/content/pub/pdf/cv15.pdf
66 Kilpatrick, D. G., Resnick, H. S., Ruggiero, K. J., Conoscenti, M. A., & McCauley, J. (2007). Drugfacilitated, incapacitated, forcible rape: A national study.
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/219181.pdf
67 Yuan Yuan, N. P., Koss, M. P., & Stone, M. (2016). The psychological consequences of sexual trauma.
National Online Resource Center on Violence Against Women.
http://vawnet.org/sites/default/files/materials/files/2016-09/AR_PsychConsequences.pdf
68 Classen, C. C., Palesh, O. G., & Aggarwal, R. (2005). Sexual re-victimization: A review of empirical
literature. Trauma, Violence, & Abuse, 6(2), 103-129.
69 Gruenenfelder, D. E., Hill-Jordan, J. R., Weitzel, P. C. (2013). Multisite evaluation of the
multidisciplinary team (MDT) approach to violence against women in Illinois. Illinois Criminal Justice
Information Authority.
http://www.icjia.state.il.us/assets/pdf/researchreports/mdt_report_july_2013.pdf
64

44
 

 

 

 

SECTION 10: HUMAN TRAFFICKING

 

 

Reported Human Trafficking Offenses in 2014 and 2015

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois
Ford

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon

Edgar

Moultrie
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Effingham

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair
Washington

Randolph

Legend
Human trafficking offenses
No reported offenses

Jasper Crawford

Bond

Madison

Monroe

Clark

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin
Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

Involuntary servitude offenses reported
Commercial sex offenses reported
Both involuntary servitude and commercial sex offenses reported

ICJIA-funded human trafficking victim
service provider

46
 

  

Trends and Characteristics
In 2014, two forms of human trafficking, sex trafficking and labor trafficking, were added as
Index crimes to Illinois’ Uniform Crime Reporting Program. Trafficking occurs when a person is
compelled to engage in sex acts or work by force, fraud, or coercion.70 Data reported to the
Illinois State Police showed a slight increase in reported sex trafficking offenses between 2014
and 2015. It is important to note, however, that human trafficking is an underreported crime.
Officials and citizens may not be equipped to properly identify and report human trafficking due
to a lack of awareness or training. Also, victim service providers whose primary focus is serving
other crime victim populations (e.g., domestic violence, sexual assault) may not have the
necessary data collection or reporting tools to track this victim population.
The National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHTRC) operates a national hotline for
trafficking victims and is another source of data. The center documents the number of unique
trafficking cases based on calls to their hotline. NHTRC data show a slight decrease in the
number of unique cases reported to the hotline in Illinois between 2014 and 2015, represented
in the graph below, indicating labor, sex, or other (i.e., both labor and sex, or unspecified) forms
of trafficking. However, these totals suggest human trafficking in Illinois is more prevalent than
I-UCR data indicate.
Statewide Indicators of Human Trafficking

160
140

12

120

Labor
Sex

5

Other

100
80

110

92

60
44

40

53

20
0

19

18

Offenses

Cases
2014 

25

8
Offenses

Cases
2015 

Sources: Illinois Uniform Crime Reporting (I-UCR) data, The National Human Trafficking Resource Center (NHTRC)

NHTRC also reported that in 2015, the majority of hotline calls received were for known cases of
adult trafficking (74 percent). In addition, most victims were female (91 percent) and more than
a third were U.S. citizens or legal residents (37 percent).71
Impact
Victims of trafficking often experience multiple forms of violence, which greatly impacts their
health and well-being. Sex trafficking victims experience debilitating physical and psychological
47
 

  
health problems. They frequently report injuries resulting from violence, including head
injuries,72 and high rates of sexual assault (over 60 percent).73 Victims also experience other
chronic health issues, such as memory problems, vaginal or pelvic pain, and hearing problems.
Many of these physical health issues are present more than a year post-trafficking.74 Sexually
trafficked women may also be at an increased risk of contracting sexually transmitted
infections.75 Studies show that a large number of trafficking victims suffer from mental health
issues. A majority of trafficked victims have experienced depression/sadness (78 percent), have
had suicidal thoughts (approximately 30 percent),76 or have met criteria for PTSD (68 percent).
One study found that sex trafficking victims experience the same PTSD severity level as combat
veterans. They also report high rates of alcohol use (52 percent) and drug use (48 percent).77
Research suggests that sex trafficking victims may use substances to cope with their
victimization or they may be forced to use substances by traffickers, potentially leading to
dependence.78
Less research exists on the impact of labor trafficking, but it does indicate victims may be forced
to live in harsh conditions and be at risk for work-related injuries resulting from the types of
work they must perform and the lack of safety equipment provided.79
Service Needs and Gaps
Service providers of direct services to human trafficking victims ranked the following services as
most crucial during the following times:

Crisis Intervention

CJS Info & Advocacy

Permanent Housing

Medical/Health Care
Services

Children’s Services

Life Skills

Counseling
Counseling emerged as a consistent need of human trafficking victims in our survey of victim
service providers. This finding aligns with research showing that trafficking victims experience
negative mental health consequences at alarmingly high rates. Providers also recognize the need
for criminal justice system information and advocacy. Advocacy can markedly improve victims’
lives by helping them obtain immigration relief80 and obtain records expungement for criminal
prostitution-related charges.81
Victim service providers also identified housing as a long-term need for human trafficking
survivors. Permanent long-term housing is viewed by service providers as a service gap; victims
of trafficking are unable to obtain housing because of their undocumented status or due to poor
or insufficient credit history.

48
 

 Another gap cited by victim service providers is the availiablity of translation services for
trafficking victims. Translation services in languages such as French, Tagalog, and Mandarin are
needed in court, in preparing for court, and at all other stages of the recovery process with
victim service providers and healthcare professionals.
Providers offering services to meet the unique needs of human trafficking victims are
exceedingly rare. Sexual assault and domestic violence hotlines frequently receive calls from
victims of human trafficking, but have limited options in referring them to agencies who
specialize in meeting the unique needs of trafficking victims. Victim service providers and
criminal justice practitioners have highlighted a need for further coordination and collaboration
among a variety of stakeholders in order to best meet these victims’ needs. Presently, ICJIA
provides funding for trafficking victim services and a multidisciplinary response team specific to
survivors of human trafficking in Cook County, but services outside of Cook County are limited.
The Department of Human Services also has some court fines and fees money for direct victim
services, which to ICJIA’s knowledge has yet to be allocated. While there are a handful of
agencies that provide services such as housing or legal aid to survivors of human trafficking,
there is a small amount of state funding currently budgeted for services to victims of human
trafficking which funds a multidisciplinary response team and a prosecution-based support
service program. Furthermore, victim services providers predominantly focus on addressing the
service needs of female sex trafficking victims, leaving a gap in services for male victims and
victims of labor exploitation.
Without better reporting and data collection methods to build evidence for the need of services,
providers may not have the necessary information to expand services in the geographic and
programmatic areas where they are most needed. Thus, further serivces, data collection, and
evaluation are needed to understand and meet the needs of human trafficking victims in Illinois.
71 National Human Trafficking Resource Center. (2016). NHTRC 2015 Illinois State Report.
https://traffickingresourcecenter.org/sites/default/files/NHTRC%202015%20Illinois%20State%20Repo
rt%20-%20IL%20-%2001.01.15%20-%2012.31.15_OTIP_Edited_06-08-16.pdf
72 Illinois State Police (n.d.) Crime in Illinois, 2015.
http://www.isp.state.il.us/docs/cii/cii15/cii15_Intro_Pg1_to_10.pdf
72 Farley, M., Cotton, A., Johnson, L., Zumbeck, S., Spiwak, F., Reyes, M. E., Alvarez, D., & Sezgin, U.
(2003). Prostitution and trafficking in nine countries: An update on violence and posttraumatic stress
disorders. In M. Farley (Ed.). Prostitution, trafficking, and traumatic stress (pp. 33-74). Binghamton,
NY: The Haworth Maltreatment & Trauma Press.
73 Raymond, J. G., D’Cunha, J., Dzuhayatin, S. R., Hynes, H. P., Ramirez Rodriguez, Z., & Santos, A.
(2002). A Comparative Study of Women Trafficked in the Migration Process: Patterns, Profiles, and
Health Consequences of Sexual Exploitation in Five Countries (Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand,
Venezuela, and the United States). New York: Coalition Against Trafficking Women International.
74 See Farley et al., 2003
75 See Raymond et al., 2002
76 See Raymond et al., 2002
77 See Farley et al., 2003
78 See Raymond et al., 2002
79 Office for Victims of Crime. (2012). Human Trafficking.
http://www.ncdsv.org/images/OVCTTAC_HumanTraffickingResourcePaper_2012.pdf
80 New York Anti-Trafficking Network. (2009, May 14). Human Trafficking Forum.
https://nyatn.files.wordpress.com/2009/05/nyatn_powerpoint_may091.pdf
81 End Demand Illinois. (2015, August). Human Trafficking and Prostitution Laws.
http://media.virbcdn.com/files/2a/4fb4a212b6932e38EDILegislativePolicyBriefingGeneralLegalAudienceAug2015.ppt

49

 SECTION 11



1
a






 

 

Rate of reported child sexual abuse per 10,000 youth ages 0 to 17, SFY 2015

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Calhoun
Jersey

Legend

31.0 - 45.9

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Effingham

Madison

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair
Monroe

Washington

Randolph

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Franklin
Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

ICJIA-funded child sex abuse victim
service provider.

Jasper Crawford

Hamilton White

Perry

46.0 - 60.9
61.0 - 88.9

Clark

Bond

Rate of reported child sex abuse
1.0 - 30.9

Edgar

Moultrie
Christian

Greene

None reported

Douglas

Sangamon

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

Non-ICJIA-funded, state-funded child
sex abuse victim service provider

51
 

  

Rates of reported child abuse/neglect per 10,000 youth ages 0 to 17, SFY 2015

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Morgan

Scott

Edgar

Moultrie
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Legend

Effingham

Madison

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair

165.0 - 375.9

Monroe

561.0 - 750.9
751.0 - 1,053.0

ICJIA-funded child abuse victim
service provider

 Non-ICJIA-funded, state-funded

Clark

Jasper Crawford

Bond

Rate of reported child abuse/neglect
376.0 - 560.9

Douglas

Sangamon

Washington

Randolph

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin
Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

child abuse victim service provider

52
 

  

Trends and Characteristics
The rate of reported abuse/neglect has remained consistent since a slight rise in 2012. Reported
incidents of sexual abuse remained about the same and accounted for just 6 percent of reported
cases. Research suggests that child abuse is an underreported crime and estimates are difficult
to ascertain given barriers to identifying such incidents.82 Counties outside of Cook County
accounted for 70 percent of reported and indicated child abuse and neglect cases and about 68
percent of reported and indicated child sexual abuse cases.
Statewide Rate of Reported Child Abuse
and Neglect per 100,000
140
120

Statewide Rate of Reported Child Sexual
Abuse per 100,000
10
9
8

100

7

80

6

60
40
20
0

5
4
3
2
1
0

Source: Department of Children and Family Services

Data on the characteristics of children and youth whose cases were indicated as abuse or neglect
were obtained from the Illinois Department of Child and Family Services (DCFS) State Fiscal
Year (SFY) 15 Annual Report.83 Indicated cases were the focus for this research as those
represent incidents in which child welfare investigators had enough evidence to confirm abuse
or neglect occurred. The data indicated notable age and gender differences by abuse type.
Almost half (48 percent) of indicated cases of child abuse and neglect involved children under 5
years of age, while 64 percent of indicated child sexual abuse cases involved youth 10 to 17 years
of age. In addition, 50 percent indicated child abuse and neglect involved female victims and 49
percent involved male victims, generally reflecting the female-male distribution in the general
population. Females, however, accounted for a much higher percentage of victims of indicated
child sexual abuse than males, at 83 percent and 16 percent, respectively.
Slight differences also were noted by race and ethnicity. Whites accounted for the largest
percentage of child abuse and neglect and sexual abuse victims (52 percent and 57 percent,
respectively), followed by Blacks (35 percent and 24 percent, respectively), and Hispanics (10
percent and 15 percent, respectively). When compared to their representation in the general
population, Blacks were overrepresented among both indicated child abuse and neglect and
child sexual abuse cases. The percentage of White and Hispanic children who have been
victimized was less than their representation in the population.
53
 

  
While the data above accounts for cases covered by DCFS, child advocacy centers (CAC) in
Illinois respond to some DCFS cases and cases referred through law enforcement agencies or
other service providers. In 2015, almost 11,000 children were served by a CAC in Illinois. Of
those, 9,528 (88 percent) were sexual abuse cases, which is more than the number of sexual
abuse cases reported to DCFS in 2015. While we are not able to separate out the cases referred
by DCFS from the data on victims served by a CAC in Illinois, the demographics of children
served are similar for race and ethnicity, but different in regards to age and gender. CACs served
more females (70 percent) than males and a higher percentage of children ages 7 to 12 (37
percent) and 13 to 17 (32 percent), which is likely due to the high volume of sexual abuse cases
handled by these centers.84
Impact
The impact of abuse on children has been well-documented. Children are often impacted
psychologically and may experience PTSD, depression, and anxiety as a result.85 Additionally,
the abuse and the associated psychological stress can cause severe physical symptoms, such as
irritable bowel syndrome, diabetes, and heart disease.86 For younger children, especially those
under the age of 3, physical injuries are likely to be more severe and fatal.87 Children and youth
who are victims of violence also are more likely to experience other forms of abuse. For
example, experiencing a physical assault is associated with a 4.9 times greater likelihood of
sexual victimization.88 Childhood victimization can also negatively impact healthy development,
including personality development.89 Outside of physical and mental consequences, children
who have experienced abuse or neglect can fall behind in their academic studies and may exhibit
behaviors that are delinquent or combative.90 The stress of being placed in foster care and the
potential uncertainty of housing placements may further exacerbate the impact of trauma.
Service Needs and Gaps
Children need a variety of services following child abuse, neglect, or sexual victimization.
Service providers who serve child abuse victims ranked the following services as most crucial
during the following times:

Crisis Intervention

Children’s Services

CJS Info & Advocacy

Life Skills

Permanent Housing

Counseling
Victim services providers serving children and their families who participated in the survey and
focus groups noted multiple needs and gaps in services. For instance, a coordinated,
multidisciplinary crisis response that is sensitive to the needs of children is important to reduce the
strain and re-traumatization for child abuse cases. Additionally, early criminal justice intervention
54
 

  
and advocacy may assist in the collection of better information and evidence, while also preparing
the child and family for the court process.
Participants noted a great need for trauma-informed services, especially for children who
experience sexual abuse. Services and counseling for the entire family also was noted as important.
Counseling that provides options for families to attend counseling individually and together and
that improve parent/child interaction may be particularly important.
Access to quality, specialized medical care that is mindful of trauma also was identified as a need.
Many agencies in rural counties expressed the difficulties and burdens long travel times place on
children in accessing specialized care. Additionally, service providers from all regions emphasized a
lack of available childcare for other children in the family as a gap that impacted the ability of
families to be present during victims’ medical treatments and engaged in longer-term counseling
services.
Regional gaps in victimization and service provision are evident. Counties outside of Cook that
have high rates of victimization are concentrated in the Southern and Central regions where service
providers are largely spread out. This contributes to longer travel times. Further, resources are
needed to address the southernmost region of the state and counties that have higher rates and
number of reports. Some of these counties include Alexander, Edgar, Jackson, Marion, Mason,
Marion, Vermilion, and Wabash.

                                                            

Diderich, H. M., Verkerk, P. H., Oudesluys-Murphy, A. M., Dechesne, M., Buitendijk, S. E., & Fekkes,
M. (2015). Missed cases in the detection of child abuse based on parental characteristics in the emergency
department. Journal of Emergency Nursing, 41, 65-68.
Lynne, E. G., Gifford, E. J., Evans, K. E., & Rosch, J. B. (2015). Barriers to reporting child maltreatment:
Do emergency medical services professionals fully understand their role as mandatory reporters?. North
Carolina Medical Journal, 76, 13-18.
83 Reports and statistics from DCFS are available on their website:
https://www.illinois.gov/dcfs/aboutus/newsandreports/reports/Pages/default.aspx.
84 The DCFS Annual Report indicates that females and youth between the ages of 10 and 17 account for a
much higher percentage of sexual abuse cases than males and younger youth. This difference likely
explains the differences in youth served by DCFS and those served through CACs, given that the CACs
served more sexual abuse cases than other forms of child abuse.
85 Office for Victims of Crime. (2012). Child abuse and neglect. Office for Victims of Crime Training and
Technical Assistance Center’s website:
https://www.ovcttac.gov/downloads/views/TrainingMaterials/NVAA/Documents_NVAA2011/Resource
Papers/Color_Child%20Abuse%20Resource%20paper%202012_final%20-%20508c_9_13_2012.pdf.
Nemeroff, C. B. (2016). Paradise lost: the neurobiological and clinical consequences of child abuse and
neglect. Neuron, 89(5), 892-909.
86 See Nemeroff, 2016. Paradise lost: the neurobiological and clinical consequences of child abuse and
neglect. Neuron, 89(5), 892-909.
87 Finkelhor, D. (2007) Developmental victimology: The comprehensive study of childhood victimization.
In R. C. Davis, A.J. Lurigion, and S. Herman (Eds.), Victims of Crime (3rd Ed., pp. 9-34) Los Angeles:
Sage Publications
See OVC, 2012.
88 Finkelhor, D., Turner, H., Shattuck, A., & Hamby, S. (2015). Prevalence of childhood exposure to
violence, crime, and abuse. JAMA Pediatrics, 169(8), 746-754.
89 Finkelhor, D., and Hashima,P. (2001). The victimization of children & youth: A comprehensive
overview. In S.O. White (Ed.), Law and Social Science Perspectives on Youth and Justice, 49-78.
90 See Finkelhor & Hashima, 2001.
82

55
 

 flit.

SECTION 12


r'





c:



 

 

Rate of reported cases of elder abuse per 10,000 60 and older, 2015
 
 
Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Legend

Effingham

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair

1.0 - 29.9

Monroe

50.0 - 74.9

Washington

Randolph

75.0 - 158.9

ICJIA-funded elder abuse victim
service provider
Non-ICJIA-funded, state-funded
elder abuse victim service provider

Clark

Jasper Crawford

Bond

Madison

Rate of reported elder abuse
30.0 - 49.9

Edgar

Moultrie

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin
Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

57
 

 Trends and Characteristics
Illinois Department on Aging (IDOA) Adult Protective Services investigates reports of abuse of
the older adults (age 60 or older) and abuse of adults with disabilities (age 18 or older). Abuse
may include confinement, emotional abuse, financial exploitation, passive neglect, physical
abuse, sexual abuse, and willful deprivation. In 2013, IDOA’s Elder Abuse and Neglect Program
was expanded to include adult victims with disabilities. Figures used to analyze trends and
characteristics were obtained from IDOA, and are limited to what was reported to the
department. Elder victims may not report because of limited mobility, disability, or fear of
retaliation.91 Furthermore, caregivers, who are committing the abuse, may impede their ability
to report or seek services.
Data from the IDOA indicates that although the statewide rate of elder abuse per 100,000
people was higher in 2015 than in 1995, it has remained about the same since the mid-2000s.92
Rate of Elder Abuse Reports, 1995-2015

600

Rate of Reports

500
400
300
200
100
0
1995

2000

2005

2010

2015

Source: Illinois Department on Aging

According to IDOA, in 2015, financial exploitation is consistently the most often reported type of
abuse of this population, occurring in 54 percent of cases. Thse victims frequently experience
more than one abuse type, with financial exploitation and emotional abuse typically cooccurring. Nearly two-thirds of reports made to IDOA (64 percent) were of female victims in
fiscal year 2015.
Impact
Victims of elder abuse may experience negative physical, psychological, and economic outcomes
as a result of their victimization. Elder abuse and neglect victims may present to emergency
rooms with health issues such as fractures, dehydration, bruises, and lacerations. As many as 30
percent of abused or neglected elders are subsequently admitted to the hospital for treatment.93
Older female victims are more likely to report a larger number of negative health outcomes,
including digestive problems and chronic pain.94 Victims of elder abuse have higher mortality
58

  
rates95 and psychological distress than non-victims96 and may develop depression or anxiety.97
Economic losses for elder victims of financial exploitation can be substantial. In one study of
financially exploited elder victims, individuals lost an average of $87,967. The vast majority of
these victims (86 percent) were unable to recover any lost funds.98
Service Needs and Gaps
Service providers offering direct services to elder victims ranked the following services as most
crucial during the following times:

Crisis Intervention

Life Skills &
Permanent Housing

Emergency Housing

Counseling
Elder abuse victims often experience poly-victimization, emotional/psychological abuse that is
coupled with another type of abuse, such as physical abuse or financial exploitation. The need
for counseling that enables victims to recover from the physical and emotional impacts of these
crimes was commonly identified by victim service providers. Emergency and permanent
housing also is a need that is largely unmet. Elder abuse victims often live with and are
physically dependent on their abusers, necessitating the availability of alternative housing.
Shelters that typically serve other crime victims, such as domestic violence victims, may be illequipped to meet the unique needs of older victims, especially those requiring special
accommodations for mobility or other impairments.
Additionally, victim service providers note that both transportation and in-home services for
elder victims are gaps in service delivery. Victims of elder abuse may be unable to self-transport
to court or to a service provider because of poor health or limited transportation options. They
need transportation services that pick them up directly from their home. Alternatively, the
availability of in-home treatment would aid in ensuring elder victims receive much needed
services.
Victim service providers who work to meet the needs of elder abuse victims are located in more
urban areas of the state, such as Cook and the surrounding collar counties, Winnebago,
Champaign, and Sangamon. Despite the relatively high rate of reported elder abuse in portions
of southern Illinois, few service providers are available to assist those victims. The low density of
victim service providers in predominantly rural areas is concerning; without better access to
transportation or providers willing to offer in-home treatment service, elder abuse victims will
remain largely underserved.

59
 

  
                                                            

91 Kahan, F. S., & Paris, B. E. (2003). Why elder abuse continues to elude the health care system. The
Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine, New York, 70, 62-68.
92 Table includes data for both elders (age 60 and older) and adults with disabilities (age 18 or older)
beginning in 2013. IDOA began investigating abuse reports of adults with disabilities in 2013 and does not
provide information on the type of abuse for elders and adults with disabilities separately.
93 Dong, X. (2005). Medical implications of elder abuse and neglect. Clinics in Geriatric Medicine, 21,
293-313.
94 Fisher, B. S., & Regan, S. L. (2006). The extent and frequency of abuse in the lives of older women and
their relationship with health outcomes. The Gerontologist, 46(2), 200-209.
95 See Dong, 2005.
96 Comijs, H.C, Penninx, B.W, Knipscheer, K. P. M., & van Tilburg, W. (1999). Psychological distress in
victims of elder mistreatment: The effects of social support and coping. Journal of Gerontology:
Psychological Sciences, 54B(4), 240–245.
97 See Fisher & Regan, 2006.
98 Jackson, S. L., & Hafemeister. (2011). Financial abuse of elderly people vs. other forms of elder abuse:
Assessing their dynamics, risk factors, and society’s response. National Institute of Justice.
https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/233613.pdf

60
 

   

 

SECTION 13: RECOMMENDATIONS

 

SECTION 13: RECOMMENDATIONS
This section outlines the recommended funding priorities to address victimization in Illinois
based on the research findings and informed by the goals of the VOCA and VAWA funds. As
noted in the section outlining allowable costs, the purpose of the VOCA funds is to support
direct service efforts that respond to the emotional, psychological, or physical needs of crime
victims; assist victims in stabilizing their lives after victimization; help victims understand and
participate in the criminal justice system; or restore a measure of security and safety for the
victim. VAWA funds are intended to promote a coordinated, multidisciplinary approach to
enhancing victim advocacy and improving the criminal justice system's response to violent
crimes against women through the development and improvement of effective law enforcement
and prosecution strategies and advocacy and services. Specific gaps in services associated with
victims of particular crime types identified by the research also informed the recommendations
(see the crime-specific sections of the report for service gaps particular to those victims).
Each funding priority is represented in bold, followed by a brief summary of the importance of
this priority to address the needs of victims. There is no particular order to the
recommendations, although those that were thematically similar are listed together.
Recommendation#1: Fund initiatives that raise the public’s awareness of victim
services.
Lack of awareness was identified as an obstacle to service seeking by both victims and service
providers as well as the larger victimization literature. Greater awareness of services and victim
rights gives victims the opportunity to make an informed decision on how best to engage in help
seeking and service utilization, based upon their unique needs. Efforts to increase the public’s
awareness of services also may aid providers in reaching people who are underserved or those
who choose not to report their experiences to law enforcement agencies. Initiatives to increase
awareness should not only involve notifying the public of the service options available, but also
the rights available to them following a victimization. Raising the public’s awareness of existing
programs also benefits providers. Providers discussed the importance of being informed of the
services available in the communities they serve to better assist victims in accessing all of the
services they need.
Recommendation#2: Increase funding to address fundamental needs of crime
victims.
Victims, service providers, and criminal justice practitioners alike reported that victims in
Illinois, regardless of crime type, face barriers to accessing services. Many of these barriers
reflect the fundamental needs of victims, such as transportation, language services, housing
relocation, emergency and permanent housing, life skills training, and legal assistance. These
fundamental needs, when left unmet, can inhibit engagement in treatment and undermine longterm safety plans.  
Recommendation#3: Fund core direct services to victims of all crime types.
Another theme that emerged was that victims are in need of comprehensive, wrap-around
services. These services include early crisis intervention, criminal justice information and
advocacy, mental health and counseling, legal services, housing/relocation, and assistance
62

  
applying for victim’s compensation. Lack of core services was noted across all of the crime types
analyzed (although specific service needs varied). Funding should be made available to ensure
all crime victims, both primary and secondary, can obtain these core victim services. Along with
funding for these core services, the state should address the existing capacity of victim service
providers to offer these services and strategize with providers to support them in an effort to
reduce staff burnout and turnover.
Recommendation#4: Increase funding for advocates and social workers within a
variety of organizations to improve victim immediate access to services.
Researchers consistently were told that early points of contact are critical to educating,
referring, and engaging victims in services, and the need for criminal justice education and
advocacy services was identified across nearly every crime type examined. Funding should be
used to connect advocates and social workers to victims at earlier points in order to increase
service awareness and utilization. Funds may be provided to establish contracts with external
advocates and social workers or may be used to form or enhance advocate and social worker
units in organizations that often have contact with victims. Collaboration between existing
advocacy services and these organizations also is encouraged. Organizations that often have
contact with victims include colleges, community-based programs, coroner’s offices, courts,
hospitals, law enforcement agencies, jails, and schools.
Recommendation#5: Increase funding of services for underserved victims of
crime.
Researchers identified several categories of underserved victims in Illinois. These include
victims experiencing language barriers, people of color, the elderly, males and younger persons,
people who are homeless, victims on college campuses, members of the LGBTQ community,
victims with an undocumented immigration status, people with disabilities, and dually-involved
persons (those involved in the juvenile and criminal justice systems as both victims and
offenders). Underserved victims of crime may not access services due to a lack of awareness,
concerns about discrimination and bias, unhelpful or hurtful responses, cultural and social
beliefs, and past funding limitations. Funding should be made available to specifically develop,
enhance, and expand victim services to the underserved victims identified.
Recommendation#6: Encourage development or expansion of programs that
address the impact of multiple victimization experiences.
Funding should encourage the development or expansion of programming or networks of
services that attend to the impact of multiple victimization experiences. Some individuals may
experience different forms of victimization throughout their lifetimes or may experience the
same type of victimization multiple times. Multiple victimization experiences increase one’s risk
for future victimization, and unaddressed trauma from previous victimization experiences can
be further exacerbated by new ones, decreasing the long-term well-being of individuals, families,
and communities.
Recommendation#7: Promote multidisciplinary responses to victimization.
Multidisciplinary approaches are effective in addressing a wide range of victimization.
Collaborative and multidisciplinary programs have been shown to be more responsive to victims
and improve criminal justice outcomes than single agency or disciplinary approaches.
Multidisciplinary approaches promote coordinated responses to victimization that can result in
63
 

  
improved case outcomes while minimizing the additional trauma to victims. Funding should be
made available for expanding multidisciplinary responses to crime victimization to underserved
regions of the state and crime types.
Recommendation#8: Encourage trauma-informed and trauma-focused services
for victims of crime.
Research indicates that services that are sensitive to or focused on the trauma of survivors are
crucial in mitigating the risk of re-victimization. Trauma-informed services are tailored to meet
the needs of crime victims with consideration of their trauma histories and cultural backgrounds
(Appendix A). Trauma-focused services are services that specifically address trauma symptoms
and the impact of trauma on the victim. Funding should encourage and prioritize services that
are trauma-informed and trauma-focused whenever appropriate.
Recommendation#9: Fund services that address long-term victim needs, such as
counseling and mental health services.
Funding should be made available for agencies to provide services beyond those that address the
immediate crisis needs of victims. One of the most notable themes identified was the lack of
individual and family counseling and mental health services for crime victims in the state. This
gap in services cut across every crime type examined. Illinois’ long-standing fiscal crisis has
significantly reduced the state’s mental health infrastructure, limiting the capacity of those
agencies that remain to provide long-term mental health services to crime victims. Research
indicates, however, that evidence-based clinical care can significantly improve long-term wellbeing of child, adolescent, and adult victims.
Recommendation#10: Support programs that specifically address needs of
individuals exposed to community violence.
Funding should be specifically allocated for establishing or enhancing services to victims of
community violence, particularly those exposed to homicide, gun violence, robbery, or nondomestic-related aggravated and simple assaults. Existing services for these victims in Illinois
are scarce and in some places non-existent. Services that are designed to address the particular
needs of children, adolescents, and adults are needed. Priority should be given to communities
that develop comprehensive plans to address victimization and those which promote the
development of community-based approaches for all victims, regardless of circumstance.
Recommendation#11: Encourage the use of evidence-informed (or promising)
and evidence-based practices and programming.
For all the recommendations made in this report, emphasis for funding should be placed on
defining the outcomes intended for the programs and employing programming most likely to
ensure these outcomes. Programming for victims that are informed by or rooted in research are
those that hold promise and are likely to result in positive victim outcomes. Evidence-informed
(or promising) practices and programs are those research suggests lead to positive outcomes;
however, further study is needed. Evidence-based practices and programming are those that
have been proven to be effective by rigorous and multiple independent research studies when
implemented with fidelity. Examples of such practices and programs include cognitivebehavioral therapy and multidisciplinary responses and trainings to address violent crime
victimization. Funding should encourage and prioritize services that are evidence-informed or
evidence-based.
64
 

 Recommendation#12: Fund activities that encourage data collection and
reporting, document victim outcomes, facilitate program evaluation, and
increase knowledge of victimization and service provision in Illinois.
In order to assure the effectiveness of the programming recommended here, funds should be
earmarked specifically for collecting data and in evaluating the defined outcomes and the
programming methods employed to reach them. Gauging the effectiveness of victim services
begins with an examination of victim service data. Data collection efforts should focus on
documenting the quantity, quality, and effectiveness of victim services in Illinois. Programs
should be encouraged to apply for funding that equips and facilitates these data collection
efforts in their agency.
Research clearly indicates that evaluation is key to early identification of issues in program
implementation and design, ultimately leading to stronger victim outcomes. Without evaluation,
providers and funders alike are left to rely on anecdotal evidence about the impact of victim
services. Funding should be used to support program evaluations.

65

  
APPENDIX A
TRAUMA AND TRAUMA-INFORMED CARE
Approximately 60 percent of men and 51 percent of women living in the United States have
experienced a traumatic event in their lifetime.99 While much debate exists about what qualifies
as a traumatic event, at minimum, traumatic events are those that cause significant distress or
harm, whether physical, emotional, or psychological, for individuals.100 These experiences can
have a severe impact on well-being by impairing people’s daily functioning and emotional
health, contributing to higher rates of hospitalization, suicide attempts, substance abuse,101 and
emotional responses, such as anger.102
Recent work has focused on a model of trauma-informed care and practices. A trauma-informed
approach acknowledges the radiating impact of trauma, recognizes that people’s actions and
symptoms may be a result of traumatic experiences, and creates policies that are sensitive to
such actions and symptoms.
Key components of trauma-informed care are:
1. Recognizing the impact of trauma on multiple areas of life and different paths to
recovery.
2. Being aware of the signs and symptoms of trauma.
3. Structuring policies and practices that account for and are sensitive to people’s potential
trauma histories.
4. Seeking to prevent re-traumatization. 103
Key principles of trauma-informed care further build on the key components by emphasizing
principles that create a trauma-informed setting. They include:







Safety
Trustworthiness and Transparency
Peer support
Collaboration and mutuality
Empowerment, voice and choice
Cultural, Historical, and Gender Issues104

Taken together, these practices work to honor a survivor’s history of trauma and the different
pathways that survivors may find toward healing and recovery.
                                                            

Davidson, J. R. T. (2000). Trauma: the impact of post-traumatic stress disorder. Journal of
Psychopharmacology, 14, S5-S12.
100 Norris, F. H. (1992). Epidemiology of trauma: frequency and impact of different potentially traumatic
events on different demographic groups. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 60, 409-418.
101 See Davidson, 2000.
102 Riggs, D. S., Dancu, C. V., Gershuny, B. S., Greenberg, D., & Foa, E. B. (1992). Anger and post‐
traumatic stress disorder in female crime victims. Journal of Traumatic Stress, 5, 613-625.
103 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. (2015). Trauma-informed approach and
trauma-specific interventions. National Center for Trauma-Informed Care and Alternatives to Seclusion
and Restraint.
104 See SAMSHA, 2015.
99

66
 

  
APPENDIX B
POPULATION DEMOGRAPHICS IN ILLINOIS

African-American population percentages in Illinois, 2014

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Legend
Percent of population
No African Americans
>1% African American

Effingham

Madison

Clay
Clinton

Marion

St. Clair
Monroe

Clark

Jasper Crawford

Bond

Washington

Randolph

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin

1% - 10% African American
11% - 36% African American

Edgar

Moultrie

Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

67
 

 Hispanic population percentages in Illinois, 2014

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Clay

Legend
<1%
1.0% - 1.9%
2.0% - 4.9%

Effingham

Clinton

Marion

St. Clair
Monroe

Clark

Jasper Crawford

Bond

Madison

Percent of population

Edgar

Moultrie

Washington

Randolph

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin
Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

5.0% - 31.1%
Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

68

  

Rate of population living below poverty level per 10,000, 2015

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Effingham

Clay

Legend

Clinton

Marion

St. Clair

500 - 1,000

Monroe

Washington

Randolph

2,001 - 3,565

Jefferson

Jasper Crawford

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin

1,001 - 1,500
1,501 - 2,000

Clark

Bond

Madison

Rate per 10,000

Edgar

Moultrie

Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

69
 

  

Percentage of population unemployed, 2015

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
Kane

DeKalb
Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Putnam

Mercer
Stark

Grundy

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

Adams

Ford

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Iroquois

McLean

Mason

Schuyler

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

McDonough Fulton

Kankakee

Marshall

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Legend

3.5% - 5.9%
6.0% - 7.9%

Effingham

Madison

Clay
Marion

St. Clair
Monroe

Clark

Jasper Crawford

Bond
Clinton

Percent unemployed

Edgar

Moultrie

Washington

Randolph

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin

8.0% - 9.0%
Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

 
 

 
70
 

  

Percentage of Illinois residents ages 25 and over with no high school diploma or
equivalent, 2014

Jo Daviess

Stephenson Winnebago

McHenry

Lake

Boone
Carroll

Ogle
DeKalb Kane

Whiteside

DuPage Cook

Lee
Kendall

Rock Island

Will

Bureau

Henry

LaSalle

Stark

Kankakee

Marshall

Knox
Henderson Warren

Hancock

Tazewell

McDonough Fulton

Iroquois
Ford

McLean

Mason

DeWitt

Logan

Champaign

Menard

Cass

Brown

Livingston

Woodford

Peoria

Schuyler
Adams

Grundy

Putnam

Mercer

Vermilion

Piatt
Macon

Pike

Scott

Morgan

Douglas

Sangamon
Christian

Greene
Calhoun
Jersey

Coles
Shelby

Macoupin Montgomery

Cumberland

Fayette

Legend
Percent without HS education

Clay
Clinton
Washington

Randolph

13% - 15%

Marion

St. Clair
Monroe

10% - 12%

Effingham

Clark

Jasper Crawford

Bond

Madison

3% - 9%

Edgar

Moultrie

16% - 26%

Jefferson

Richland Lawrence

Wayne
Wabash
Edwards

Hamilton White

Perry
Franklin
Jackson

Williamson Saline Gallatin

Union Johnson Pope

Hardin

Alexander Pulaski Massac

 
 

 

 
71

 

  
APPENDIX C
GUIDING AND GRANTMAKING PRINCIPLES

Guiding Principles
1. Legitimacy: Criminal justice practices and policy should provide an equitable justice
system for all Illinois residents by strengthening the trust between the public and the
justice system and promoting the fair distribution of rights, resources and opportunities.
2. Fair and Just: Criminal justice laws, policies, and practices should be fairly and effectively
enforced, ensuring that punishment is proportional to the seriousness of the offense
committed, designed to achieve offender accountability, victim restoration and public
safety, and limited to the amount necessary to achieve the intended outcomes.
3. Respect: Criminal justice practices and policy should ensure that victims are treated with
respect in regard to their dignity and privacy, and that their rights are enforced.
4. Due Process: Criminal justice practices and policy should ensure that all individuals are
afforded equal access to fair treatment under the law.
5. Recovery: Support and services should be provided to victims who suffer physical,
emotional or financial harm as the direct result of the offender’s criminal conduct. These
services should be provided whether or not the victims choose to participate in the criminal
justice system.
6. Rehabilitation: The criminal justice system should require and support offender
rehabilitation services to offenders who want them. These services should be provided in a
culturally competent, gender sensitive, and trauma informed manner.
7. Strengthen Communities: The criminal justice system should strengthen communities
and their capacities to prevent crime and violence.
8. Prevention: The criminal justice system should prevent crime and violence to mitigate its
harmful effects on individuals and communities.
9. Research Informed: Criminal justice policies and practices should be informed by
statistics, research, and community input. Criminal justice data, statistical analyses, and
research should be accessible to all communities.
10. Collaboration: The sectors of criminal justice system and victim service providers should
collaborate to provide efficient, effective, and expedient justice. This collaboration should
foster cross-system coordination and appropriate information sharing.
11. Efficient: The criminal justice system should avoid unnecessary costs and maximize its
limited resources to achieve its intended outcomes.
 
 
 
 

72
 

 Grantmaking Principles
1. The Authority should strive to maximize the use of available federal and state funds,
seeking any and all reasonable alternatives to lapsing funds back to the federal or state
government.
2. The Authority's decision to award federal and state funds should have a foundation in the
best available research, evaluation, practice and professional advice.
3. The Authority's decision to award federal and state funds should take into account the
balance of resources across the justice system and its potential impact in other areas of
the system.
4. The Authority's federal and state funds should not result in the duplication of efforts already
in place.
5. The Authority's federal and state funds cannot be used to supplant other funds.
6. The Authority's federal and state funds should be allocated (a) to areas demonstrating
need based on an analysis of the nature and extent of the problem(s) and (b) to
programs in areas where there is an opportunity to impact the identified problem(s).
In addition, to the extent permitted by program guidelines, some portion of available
federal and state funds should be used for the following:
1. To encourage collaborative approaches to problem solving, planning and program
implementation.
2. To encourage innovative pilot or demonstration projects.
3. To evaluate funded projects and support an ongoing program of research designed to
further planning and program development.
4. To build the capacity of those in the criminal justice system.

73

 Addendum I
Slides Presented at the Ad Hoc Victim Services
Commitee Meeting

Ad Hoc Victim Services 
Committee Meeting
January 10th‐11th, 2017
Illinois Criminal Justice Information 
Authority

Introductions and Opening Remarks
John Maki, Executive Director
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
&
Paula Wolff, Chair
ICJIA Strategic Opportunities Committee

74

 Allowable Costs under
VOCA and VAWA 
Angie Weis
General Counsel & Chief of Staff

Legal Compliance
• ICJIA’s role as State Administering Agency
– Procedural compliance
– Substantive compliance
– Ethical compliance

• Recent changes to allowable costs under VOCA
– ICJIA webinar available on our website

75

 VOCA Funding Areas
• At least 10 percent of each year’s VOCA grant must be
allocated for each of the three priority categories of crime
victims identified in the Final Rule:
– Sexual Assault
– Spousal Abuse
– Child Abuse

• An additional 10 percent must be allocated for underserved
victims of violent crime
• There are no new unallowable costs under the new Final Rule

VOCA Definitions
• Crime victim is a person who has suffered physical, sexual, financial, or
emotional harm as a result of the commission of a crime
– Victims do not have to participate in the criminal justice process
– Victim eligibility is not dependent on immigration status
– Includes incarcerated persons who otherwise fit the definition of a crime
victim

• Direct services under VOCA include those listed in the statute and
those that:
(1) Respond to the emotional, psychological, or physical needs of crime 
victims; 
(2) Assist victims to stabilize their lives after victimization; 
(3) Assist victims to understand and participate in the criminal justice 
system; or 
(4) Restore a measure of security and safety for the victim

76

 Allowable VOCA Costs
• Volunteer training to provide direct services when these direct 
services will be primarily done by volunteers
• Automated systems and technology
• Restorative justice services that are victim‐centered, voluntary, and 
reasonably anticipated to provide beneficial or therapeutic value to 
victims
• Legal assistance services if they are reasonable and the need for 
such services arises as a direct result of the victimization
• Certain multi‐disciplinary response activities

Unallowable VOCA Costs
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Lobbying 
Research and studies 
Active investigation and prosecution of criminal activities
Fundraising
Capital expenses 
Compensation for victims of crime
Medical care
Salaries and expenses of management
Criminal defense and tort lawsuits

77

 VAWA Funding Areas
• STOP (Services‐Training‐Officers‐Prosecutors) Violence Against 
Women Formula Grant Program
• STOP funds must be allocated:
–
–
–
–
–

25 percent for law enforcement
25 percent for prosecutors
30 percent for victim services
5 percent for state and local courts
15 percent discretionary

VAWA Service Population
• Women and girls who are victims of:
–
–
–
–

Domestic violence
Dating violence
Sexual assault
Stalking

• Incarcerated victims are allowable
• Men in limited circumstances

78

 VAWA Definitions
• Victim services – services provided to victims of domestic violence, 
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking
• Sexual assault – any nonconsensual sexual act proscribed by 
federal, tribal, or state law, including when the victim lacks the 
capacity to consent

VAWA Allowable Costs
• Certain legal assistance services such as housing, family law, public 
benefits, and other similar matters
• Transportation costs, if related to safety
• Batterers’ intervention programs
• Violence prevention programs
• Programs in schools
• Forensic exams
• Food in the context of victim services

79

 Unallowable VAWA Costs
•
•
•
•
•

Criminal defense
Placing a survivor in permanent housing after a shelter stay
Voucher programs for housing or counseling services
Substance abuse counseling
Purchase of automobiles

Introduction to the Research 
Approach
Dr. Megan Alderden
Associate Director of Research

80

 Victim
a person who has suffered physical, sexual, financial, or
emotional harm as a result of the commission of a

crime

Ranking of Importance
NO ranking or ordering that implies importance to the report or
the recommendations

Prevalence, impact, 
needs, and evidence‐
informed practices

Crime trends and patterns, 
geographic distribution of 
crime, and service 
availability and funding 
streams

Strategic, data‐driven 
plan to address 
victimization 

Victim service provider 
and cjs practitioner 
insights on victim 
service needs, gaps, 
and capacities

Aeffect interviews with and 
surveys of crime victims 
about their experiences and 
needs

81

 2016 Victim Needs Assessment
Presented to Ad Hoc Victim Services Committee
Prepared by Aeffect, Inc.
January 2017

Topics
•

Introductions

•

Overview

•

Summary of Findings: Literature Review

•

Summary of Findings: Qualitative Research

•

Summary of Findings: Quantitative Research

•

Key Takeaways and Implications

•

Q&A

82

 Introductions
Michelle Kuhn
Chief Executive Officer
mkuhn@aeffect.com
Jed Lam
Senior Vice President
jlam@aeffect.com
Wendy Joice-Denhard
Vice President
wjoice@aeffect.com

Overview

83

 Overview
What

How

Objectives
–

Conduct a robust statewide victim needs assessment for gathering insight to
inform short-term and long-term decisions

–

Profile victimization statewide

–

Benchmark current awareness and usage of victim services

–

Identify met and unmet needs of victims and family members

–

Reveal barriers to effective victim support

–

Understand the “pathways” for victims of violent crime

Methodology
–

Secondary literature review of best practices

–

In-depth interviews with stakeholders (10), service providers (25), victims (40)
and family members (20)

–

Statewide online survey of victims and non-victims (n=1,569)

Overview
Who

Interview Sample
–

Victim service providers from a broad range of services including advocacy,
education, case management, counseling, and legal services. Providers located
in urban, suburban, and rural areas in Illinois.

–

Professionals included police chief, detective, SANE coordinator/nurse, state
victim witness coordinator, state’s attorney, hospital social worker, university
victim services coordinator, and coroner.

–

Victim and family members included:
Domestic Violence (14)
Homicide (8)
DUI/Vehicular (5)
Identity Theft (2)
Hate crime/LGBTQ (2)

Sexual Assault/Rape (13)
Theft/Assault (8)
Child Abuse (6)
Senior/Elder Abuse (2)

Survey Sample
– Initial survey to statewide consumer panel then supplemented by VSPs
– Benchmark sample of n=1,042 Illinois residents matched to US Census region
– Supplemental sample of n=527 victims and family members
– Ever victim (n=931) and victim of a violent crime in the past 10 years (n=330)

84

 Overview – Initial Findings
• Without help, becoming a victim of violent crime can damage multiple layers of life.
• Victims, family members, and service providers say there are gaps in the services
currently available versus those that are needed.
• Awareness of victim services is a major barrier to meeting the needs of victims.
• Without an advocate or someone to guide them through the process, victims and family
members often feel lost and unsure of what to do next.

Summary of Findings:
Literature Review

85

 Summary of Findings – Literature Review
• The purpose of the secondary literature review was to identify past victim needs
assessments conducted at the state or national level in order to inform development of the
current research plan. The literature review explored existing research on the following
topics:
– Best practices in assessing victims’ needs
– Availability of victim needs survey tools
– Research on meeting victim needs among underserved populations
– Trends in victim needs research that may affect survey measures
– Federal guidelines and relevant behavioral or logic models to be considered

Summary of Findings – Literature Review
• Overall, there is little published research on the needs of victims of crime. Most
reports focus on crime statistics, but few conduct primary research among victims or family
members. Notable exceptions included projects conducted in California, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Indiana, and Illinois. A few measures from these
studies were included for consideration during survey development.
• Among the studies reviewed, transportation and emergency shelter/housing were
repeatedly identified as needs, particularly for underserved populations. Overburdened
transitional housing or the complete absence of affordable housing were common
problems. Male victims of domestic violence or sexual assault were particularly vulnerable
as few states have transitional housing or shelter options for men.
• Other than a lack of funding or human resources, lack of awareness of resources and
misperceptions of strict or limiting requirements are barriers to meeting victim needs.
Other barriers mentioned included fear of repercussions for undocumented victims,
complex forms, and limited language or cultural proficiency.

86

 Summary of Findings:
In-Depth Interviews

Victim Interviews – victimization
• Many victims reveal their initial response to violent crime and even for some time
after is to experience diminished mental capacity.
•

"I didn’t know anything about getting help…I
wasn’t all me at that time. I didn’t know what
was going on." (Family Member, Homicide,
47F, Chicago, AA)

•

"The combination of the abuse and then the
financial aspects of it was just so emotionally
crippling and debilitating…it would just
paralyze a person." (Victim, DV, 50F,
Chicago, Hispanic)

87

 Victim Interviews – long-term impact
• Victims commonly describe the “domino-effect” that victimization has on their lives,
damaging different foundations one by one.
• "The shame is crippling … having a position of a great
deal of responsibility and then having your life
disintegrate to the point where you can’t even meet your
basic needs." (Victim, DV, 50F, Chicago, Hispanic)
• “…the effect it’s had on everything from financially,
emotionally, how it’s affected me at work, how it’s
affected my other son in school…" (Family Member,
DUI, 49M, Rural, Caucasian)

Victim Interviews – fear for personal safety
• For all types of crimes, victims describe the ongoing fear they face and the strong
need to feel protected and to re-establish their personal safety.
• "I felt scared cause I felt like maybe [the offenders’]
friends would come try to jump me at the hospital. I
was a little traumatized." (Victim, Hate Crime, 30M,
Chicago, Hispanic)
• "For six months after the [sexual assault] I could not
be alone…I’ve had anxiety since that experience."
(Victim, SA, 43F, Chicago, Hispanic)
• "I didn’t feel safe and I just felt really alone and scared." (Victim, DV, 51F, Chicago, AA)

88

 Victim Interviews – lack of awareness
• Most victims know little about Illinois laws, rights, or resources for crime victims.
•

"Nope, I have not heard of services for victims of crime
before." (Family Member, Homicide, 47F, Chicago, AA)

•

"If you wouldn’t of said anything about counseling, I
don’t think I would of known that they did stuff like that
for a victim." (Victim, Gun Violence, 34M, Chicago,
Hispanic)

Victim Interviews – re-victimization
• More often than not, Illinois victims recount how they feel re-victimized after the
crime at different stages of their experience and in multiple settings.
•

"Sometimes the police are just so harsh and
mean…" (Family Member, Homicide, 44F, Chicago,
AA)

•

"Instead of asking me questions…the detective
[said] things like, ‘But you wanted this to happen.
But you were drunk, so how do you know that
didn’t happen?’ " (Victim, SA, 44F, Rural,
Caucasian)

89

 Victim Interviews – feel they are not believed
• A frequently cited barrier to meeting their needs is that victims often feel they are
blamed or not believed.
•

"I really felt that the police automatically sided with
the man…he being the one that was calmer and I
am hysterical because I’m the one that was afraid."
(Victim, DV, 57F, Suburb, Hispanic)

•

"The Assistant State’s Attorney was very
insensitive…she made me feel as if what had
happened was my fault." (Victim, SA, 43F, Chicago,
Hispanic)

Victim Interviews – underserved populations
• Immigrants and undocumented victims are particularly susceptible to not reporting
crimes and avoiding victim services, especially if those services are not available in
their native language.
•

"I was afraid because [neighbors] told me that if I spoke up and I didn’t have
documents they could take [my children] from me and that was a risk." (Family
Member, Child Abuse, 43F, Chicago, Hispanic)

•

"Sometimes not having a Social Security number or not being a resident stops you
because you think they won’t want to help you if you don’t have that." (Victim, DV, 33F,
Chicago, Hispanic)

•

"If you need to go to the police station or you have to speak English, it’s hard because
you explain things but they don’t understand you. It’s a struggle. You have to stay there
a long time or wait for an interpreter." (Victim, SA, 41F, Chicago, Hispanic)

90

 Victim Interviews – slow judicial process
• Delays in the criminal justice system severely impede a victim’s ability to achieve
closure and move on with their lives.
•

"There is always a continuance…so we’re going
on almost a year and it has yet to be heard…you
never get over losing a child, but there will be no
even trying to heal until it’s over." (Family Member,
DUI, 37F, Rural, Caucasian)

•

"The trial’s been going on for over three and a half
years. I mean the trial hasn’t started, but we just
continue showing up at court. So it’s endless."
(Family Member, Homicide, 61M, Chicago,
Caucasian)

Victim Interviews – lack of information
• Victims feel the information flow from police or state’s attorneys is not well coordinated,
non-existent, or purposely withheld. This leads some victims to believe the justice
system is working against them even though there may be reasonable explanations.
•

"I haven’t heard from the police. They haven’t come to
my house. They haven’t asked me any questions.
They haven’t sent me a letter or anything, no follow
up, no nothing." (Family Member, Homicide, 47F,
Chicago, AA)

•

"I did call the police and State’s Attorney several times
and any question I had asked, was answered with,
‘We’re not able to tell you at this time. We can’t
answer that. The case is ongoing.’" (Family Member,
DUI, 37F, Rural, Caucasian)

91

 Victim Interviews – need a roadmap
• Victims say they need someone to help guide them through the process. They are
unsure of what they should do next whether related to the justice system or to
accessing service providers.
•

“…it would have been nice to have somebody there to
say, ‘Okay this is what we need to do to follow through
on this.’ There was nobody, nothing, and it seemed
like everybody at the police station didn’t care."
(Family Member, DUI, 47F, Rural, Caucasian)

•

I wouldn’t of had any idea where to start, where to go,
what to do or anything if it hadn’t been for the senior
center." (Victim, Elder Abuse, 71F, Rural, Caucasian)

•

"You don’t walk into the court system utilizing their vocabulary…these are all going to
be brand new words for people…you need to give them a vocabulary sheet." (Family
Member, Homicide, 48F, Rural, Caucasian)

Victim Interviews – lack of staff and longer wait times
• Victims say service providers are overwhelmed and severely overburdened. Wait
times for counseling services have grown leading some victims to perceive they may
not qualify for services.
•

"There’s a huge waiting list and the reason is that there
are not enough funds to staff it so they can take care of
people." (Victim, SA, 41F, Chicago, Hispanic)

•

"It’s been really hard trying to get a hold of [service
provider] … they're busy all the time like they don’t have
enough staffing or something." (Family Member, Child
Abuse, 29F, Rural, Caucasian)

•

"I remembered I looked into [a service provider] and they didn’t give me the help I
was seeking. I feel that either they are overworked or they take extreme cases only.”
(Victim, DV, 33F, Chicago, Hispanic)

92

 Victim Interviews – counseling
• Counseling is often cited as a major need, both for the victim as well as family
members and other secondary victims.
•

"I think anyone who loses a child should speak with
someone in these [service provider] groups."
(Family Member, Homicide, 44F, Chicago, AA)

•

"I probably should have been in counseling, but I
didn’t have enough money to put myself through it
as well as my daughter." (Family Member, Child
Abuse, 29F, Rural, Caucasian)

•

"I just need to have somebody I can talk to that just understands where I’ve been and
just somebody that’s neutral, because if I talk to friends and family then they tend to
take sides." (Victim, DV, 51F, Chicago, AA)

Victim Interviews – basic needs
• Transportation, housing, and child care are repeatedly mentioned as needs.
•

"There are weekly meetings, but I stopped going
because I have no car…or I didn’t have enough
money to take the bus." (Victim, DV, 45F, Chicago,
Hispanic)

•

"My immediate need was childcare. At the time, I
wasn't making too much money so there was no
help." (Victim, DV, 42F, Rural, AA)

•

"I needed a place to keep my daughters safe."
(Family Member, Child Abuse, 43F, Chicago,
Hispanic)

•

"Safety and then basic physical needs of food and hygiene and a place to sleep … very
basic needs that I had at that moment." (Victim, DV, 50F, Chicago, Hispanic)

93

 Victim Interviews – success
• Victim service providers, advocates, and first responders can have a major impact
on changing someone’s life.
•

“…they [VSP] respect you as a person and they
accept you and lovingly support you
unconditionally and they really take care of us."
(Victim, DV, 45F, Suburb, AA)

•

"[The victim advocate] was huge in all of it…The
court process is very daunting and confusing and
she just answers all of your questions." (Family,
DUI, 37F, Rural, Caucasian)

•

"I went by ambulance to the hospital and upon my arrival, there was a wonderful lady
there…she was a lifesaver because I was terrified and she knew just what to say and
just how to handle the situation. " (Victim, SA, 44F, Rural, Caucasian)

Summary of Findings:
Benchmark Survey

94

 Summary of Findings – Victim Needs
• The needs of victims of violent crimes in Illinois are widespread and appear to be
beyond the capacity of existing providers. Over one-quarter of victims of violent crimes
(29%) say there are no service providers nearby or they did not have transportation to
reach providers (23%). Another quarter of victims (27%) say the wait list for services was
too long.
• Counseling and civil legal assistance are major areas of need. Other gaps in services
provided include child care, children’s services, housing, and life skills. Over onethird of victims of violent crimes (40%) identify counseling as a need, which includes
individual counseling, family counseling, and support groups. Civil legal assistance is the
next most commonly identified need by about one-third of victims (30%). The next largest
gaps in stated needs versus received services are for child care and children’s services.

Summary of Findings – Barriers to Meeting Victim Needs
• Nearly half of victims of violent crimes do not report the crime to police. Over onequarter of victims of violent crimes who did not report the crime did not believe the police
could help (26%) or were concerned they would be blamed (25%).
• The perception that victim services are “not for someone like me” due to strict
geographic or financial requirements or a lack of sensitivity to beliefs, native
language, or disability is a strong barrier to receiving services. Nearly half of victims
of violent crimes (45%) did not seek out services because they assumed they did not
qualify. Others expressed concerns that the services would not be sensitive to their
religious beliefs (16%), their disability (13%), or their primary language (13%).
• About half of adults in Illinois say they would not know where to go for help if they
became a victim. The vast majority are also unaware of compensation available for
victims of violent crimes. Among past victims of violent crimes, more than half (58%)
say they do not know where to access victim services. When asked why they did not
access or seek out services, the number one reason given is a lack of knowledge or
awareness of support services available. One-third of victims of violent crime (30%) said
“no one” informed them of resources available to victims. Regardless of crime experience,
only one-in-ten surveyed adults in Illinois are aware of compensation available for violent
crimes (12%).

95

 Benchmark Survey – Victimization
• Among victims of violent crime, over half (58%) were victims of physical assault.

Victims of Crime
Benchmark vs. Violent
58%

Bench
Violent

48%

43%

40%

40%
36%

25%

21%

20%

20%

23%
14%

17%

12%

10%

Identity

Child Sex ual

Rape/Sex ual

Homicide/Homicide

Theft/Financial

Abuse/Assault/Child

Assault or Attempted

Witness

abuse/Scam

Phy sical Abuse

Rape/Sex ual

6%

Assault

Q5. Have you or a household member ever experienced any of the following?
(Benchmark n=1040 Violent Victim n=330)

Benchmark Survey – Multiple Victimizations
• Among victims of violent crimes, nearly three-quarters (72%) have been the victim of
multiple crimes.

Numbers of Crimes Ever Experienced
Benchmark vs. Violent

Bench
Violent

43%
28%

25%

24%

18%
13%

1 crime

2 crimes

3 crimes

18%
8%

10%

4 crimes

9%

5+ crimes

NUMCRIMESSELF: Number of crimes self as victim
(Benchmark n=491 Violent Victim n=288)

96

 Benchmark Survey – Geography
• Compared to the benchmark, victims of violent crime are significantly more likely to be in the
City of Chicago by nearly a two-to-one margin (41% vs. 23%).

Location of Crime
Benchmark vs. Violent

Bench
Violent

41%
28%

23%

20%
11% 10%

The City of
Chicago

Suburban
Chicago

Central Illinois

8%

7% 6%

4%

Southern
Illinois

17% 15%

Northern Illinois Outside of IL
but in the US

Q9. Where did this crime take place?
(Benchmark n=491 Violent Victim n=288)

Benchmark Survey – Gang/Gun Violence
• One-in-five victims of violent crime (19%) say the crime was related to gang activity and
16% say it involved a gun. Another 17% say the crime was a hate crime.

Perceptions of Crime Type
Benchmark vs. Violent

Bench
Violent

19%
8%

Yes, felt crime was related to
gang activity

17%
8%

Yes, felt this was a hate crime

16%
10%

Yes, crime involved a gun

Q9. Did you/your household member feel that this crime was in any way related to your race, gender, religious affiliation or sexual orientation (also called a hate crime)?
Q10. Did you/your household member feel that this crime was in any way related to gang activity? Q11. Did this crime involve a gun?
(Benchmark n=568 Violent Victim n=330)

97

 Benchmark Survey – Why Crime Not Reported
• About half of victims of violent crime (45%) do not report the crime to authorities. The most
common reasons are thinking the police can’t do anything to help (26%) or being concerned
victims will be blamed (25%) or not believed (24%).

Why Crime wasn’t Reported to Authorities
Benchmark vs. Violent
54%
45%

23%

26%
17%

Did NOT
I didn't think the police
report crime could do anything to
help

Bench
Violent

25%

24%

22%

17%

15%

23%
14%

20%
12%

I was concerned I

I was concerned I

I didn't think the police

I feared retaliation

I didn't want the

would be blamed

would not be believed

would help me

against me or my

offender/perpetrator to

family

get in trouble

Q12. Did you/your household member report this crime to law enforcement/police?
Q13. Why didn’t you/your household member report this crime to police?
(Benchmark n=568 Violent Victim n=330)

Benchmark Survey – Why Crime Not Reported
• Females victims of violent crimes (54%) are more likely than males to not report the crime
and to have concerns that they will be blamed (23%) or not believed (21%).

Why Crime wasn’t Reported to Authorities
Male vs. Female

54%
45%

Male
Female

31%
23%

23%

4%

Did NOT
report crime

I didn't think the police I was concerned I
could do anything to
help

would be blamed

21%

19% 17%
16%

13% 15%

9%

5%
I was concerned I

I didn't think the police

I feared retaliation

I didn't want the

would not be believed

would help me

against me or my

offender/perpetrator to

family

get in trouble

Q12. Did you/your household member report this crime to law enforcement/police?
Q13. Why didn’t you/your household member report this crime to police?
(Male n=117 Female n=333)

98

 Benchmark Survey – Unmet Needs
• Counseling (40%) and Civil Legal Assistance (30%) top the list of unmet needs among
victims of violent crimes. Child care and Children’s services are two larger areas of unmet
needs.
Victims of Violent Crime Unmet Needs
Counseling (individual/
family/support groups)
Civil legal
assistance (net)

19%

Mental health/
psychological services
10%

Emergency shelter/
Relocation/Housing

10%

Information/advocacy
on public resources

Child care
Children’s services

7%
6%

20%
20%
17%
16%
19%

5%
5%

30%
28%

17%

Medical/health
care services

Life skills

40%

26%

Needs
Received

17%

Q21. Which of the following did you need help or assistance with?
Q24. And for which of these did you receive help? (Violent Victim n=330)

Benchmark Survey – Barriers to Receiving Services
• Lack of awareness (58%) is the number one reason victims do not pursue victim services
followed by a perception that they do not qualify for services (45%). Limited capacity (27%)
is also a problem.
Bench

Violent

Why didn’t you seek or receive services?
Did not know how or where to get support services

57%

58%

Assumed I did not qualify for services

29%

45%

Worried about being blamed or not believed

36%

41%

No service providers nearby

24%

29%

Wait list for services was too long

15%

27%

Wasn’t sure these services would be able to help

22%

24%

No transportation to reach providers

22%

23%

Concerned services not sensitive to beliefs

16%

25%

Did not have child care

13%

21%

Concerned services not accessible for disabled

13%

20%

Unsure how to find services in primary language

13%

21%

Bold numbers indicate a statistically significant difference between two columns at the
95% confidence level

99

 Benchmark Survey – Who Informed You?
• Victims of violent crimes typically hear about victim services from a friend or family member
(31%), police (22%), or victim service agencies (16%).

Who Informed You of Victim Resources?
Benchmark vs. Violent

51%

Bench
Violent

31%

30%
22%

18%

17%

11%

No one

police/law enforcement

16%

11%
6%

6%

5%

Friend/Family/ Significant

Counselor/mental health

Medical services

Victim advocate/ Victim

other

services

(doctor/nurse)

service agency

Q26. Who, if anyone, informed you of services available for victims of crime?
Note: All of the above values are significant at the 95% confidence level.
(Benchmark n=568 Violent Victim n=330)

Benchmark Survey – Victim Compensation Fund
• The vast majority of adults in Illinois (88%) are unaware of the victim compensation fund. Of
those aware who apply, most receive help in applying/filing out forms.
Who Informed You of Victim Resources?
Benchmark vs. Violent
Yes, aware of violent crime compensation
Yes, I or a household member applied
Yes, we received help filling out forms
Yes, our application was approved

80%

77%

66%

4%

Bench

9%

Approved

23%

Received help

Approved

12%

Received help

57%

Victim Violent

Q32. To the best of your knowledge, are victims of violent crime in Illinois eligible for compensation from the state?
Q33. Did you or a household member apply for compensation from the Illinois Victim Compensation Fund?
Q34. Did you or a household member receive help in filling out the forms to apply for compensation from the Illinois Victim Compensation Fund?
Q35. Was your application approved? (Benchmark n=568 Violent Victim n=330)

100

 Benchmark Survey – Demographics
• Victims of violent crime are more likely to be 18-34, single, minorities, living below the
poverty line. LGBTQ and those with disabilities are also more likely to be victims of violent
crime.
Victim NonViolent Victim

Victim NonViolent Victim
Age

Marital Status

18‐34 years old
35‐54 years old
55‐64 years old
65+ years old

54%
27%
13%
6%

25%
32%
20%
23%

Ethnicity
White/Caucasian

69%

78%

Black/African American

13%

7%

Hispanic/Latino
Asian

12%
6%

7%
7%

20%
13%
14%
8%
38%

14%
12%
11%
9%
44%

Income
Less than $20,000
$20,000 to under $30,000
$30,000 to under $40,000
$40,000 to under $50,000
$50,000 or more

Married
31%
In a relationship/Living w/other
21%
In a relationship/Not living w/other 13%

53%
8%
5%

Divorced/Separated/Widowed

11%

15%

Single/Not in a relationship

24%

18%

Heterosexual
Lesbian/Gay/Bisexual/Other

84%
15%

92%
4%

Disability

28%

11%

69%
16%
12%
10%

71%
24%
8%
7%

Sexual orientation

Insurance
Yes, I have health insurance
Yes, I have Medicare
Yes, I have Medicaid
No

Bold numbers indicate a statistically significant difference between two columns at the 95% confidence level

Key Takeaways and
Implications

101

 Journey of Contact Points in Victimization
• Each potential contact point represents an opportunity to impact a victim’s life by providing
them with critical information and resources.
1st
Contact

2nd
Contact

3rd
Contact

Police

Detective

State’s Attorney

EMT/Hospital/
Campus Health

Victim Advocate

Judge

Coroner

800# Hotline

Victim
SELF RELIANT

VC/CPS Fund

Victim
Service
Providers

Family/
Friends

Counseling
Support
Groups
Life skills
Childcare
Housing
Transportation
Civil Legal

Church/
Community
School/
Employer
y
Advocate/
Counselor

Key Takeaways and Implications
Key Takeaways

Counseling and Mental Health services are major
areas of need. Service providers are under-staffed
and overwhelmed with applicants. Limits on
duration and frequency further hinder progress.

Civil Legal Assistance remains a major area of
need. Recent changes to allowable reimbursement
from VOCA have helped, but there are still large
gaps in meeting needs. Immigrant victims are
particularly vulnerable.

Children’s services, child care, and housing are
important needs that must be met to allow victims
to attend legal proceedings and counseling
services. Temporary housing is over-capacity.

Implications
Without access to immediate counseling, more serious
mental health conditions may develop leading to increased
financial burden on the state.
In addition to more staff, application requirements need to
be reviewed/reduced. The perception that it is hard to
qualify may be a result of limited capacity. Service
providers also need greater flexibility in the number of
sessions allowable. Secondary victims need to be included.

Capacity is a major road block to civil legal assistance
along with limited services that are allowable. Translation
services are particular areas of need. Without legal
assistance, harassment and stalking cases may escalate to
more serious DV and child or elder abuse charges.

Additional avenues for child care services and allowable
reimbursement need to be explored. Temporary housing is
at a severe shortage particularly for underserved
populations including immigrants, LGBTQ, and men.
Neglecting the needs of children perpetuates the cycle of
victimization and violence. Without stability, safety, and the
opportunity for education, many will become victims again.

102

 Key Takeaways and Implications
Key Takeaways

Implications

Awareness of services available is limited before
and after becoming a victim of crime. First
responders need additional materials, support, and
training.

Service providers need flexibility to spend VOCA funding
on raising awareness of the help available for victims.
Additional coordination between first/second responders
and service providers is needed. Health care providers
play a critical role, but often lack equipment, staff, space,
or training to properly assist victims of violent crimes.

Awareness of the victim compensation fund is low.
With immediate financial needs, the reimbursement
format minimizes its effectiveness.

As victims and family members need help with the complex
application process, service providers may be the best
channel for informing victims of the funds available.

Negative perceptions of police are an obstacle to
reporting crime and accessing victim services.
Police and victims can be adversarial, which
ultimately hurts both parties.

Victims need a roadmap of what police do and how the
legal system works. Success stories can help combat the
perception that police are not on the victim’s side.

Evaluation of service providers and ROI of VOCA
spending is difficult. The voice of victims and
family members impacted by laws are also not
reaching politicians and lawmakers.

Victims and family members need a feedback channel to
provide their direct experience with the laws intended to
help and protect them. Lawmakers, politicians, judges, and
attorneys seem out of touch with the victim’s experience.
Continue the benchmark victim survey on an annual basis
as a means to validate gains in victim services and as a
feedback channel to include the voice of victims.

Q&A

103

 Ad Hoc Victim Services 
Committee Meeting
January 10th‐11th, 2017
Illinois Criminal Justice Information 
Authority
1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority  

ICJIA Victim Services Ad Hoc 
Research Project 
Research and Analysis Unit
Dr. Jaclyn Houston‐Kolnik, Manager, Center for Victim Studies
Jennifer Hiselman, InfoNet Manager
Amanda Vasquez, Research Analyst
Dr. Megan Alderden, Associate Director of Research

Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

104

 Where we are going…
• Core research questions 
• Characteristics of participants
• Present each recommendation
– Provide data that supports and expands upon 
each recommendation

Research Questions
• What do victimization trends and characteristics 
look like in Illinois?
• What are the needs of crime victims in Illinois?
• What are the gaps in services for crime victims?

105

 Victim Service Provider (VSP) Survey
Over 500 recruitment 
letters/emails sent
Participants were encouraged to 
forward link to other VSPs
Survey was posted on the InfoNet Twitter 
account and VSPs social media pages

235 VSPs participated
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

VSP Participant Characteristics
Unknown 1.3%

South
17.2%
North
8.2%

Cook
27.8%

Central
32%

Collar
13.6%

Main office

Crime type

106

 VSP Participant Characteristics
Types of agencies VSPs represented included:

Social Services

Crisis
Centers

Law 
Hospitals or 
Healthcare Enforcement

Prosecution‐ Community  Educational
Institutions
Centers
Based

Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Focus Groups
At the end of the survey, VSPs were asked 
if they wanted to be contacted about 
participation in focus groups.
90 VSPs provided contact 
information and were sent a 
recruitment email.
Focus groups were held regionally: 
Collar (1), Cook (2), Central (2), 
Northern (1), Southern (1).
28 VSPs participated
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

107

 Focus Group Participant Characteristics
South
17.9%
Central
32.1%

North
7.1%

Cook
28.6%

Collar
14.3%

Main office

89%

Crime type

Analytical Process
Conducted geographic 
analyses

Assessed trends & 
characteristics

Reviewed existing 
research literature

Consulted Aeffect’s
victim needs assessment

Administered victim 
service provider 
survey

Conducted regional 
focus groups
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

108

 Analytical Process
Conducted geographic 
analyses

Assessed trends & 
characteristics

Reviewed existing 
research literature

Consulted Aeffect’s
victim needs assessment

Administered victim 
service provider 
survey

Conducted regional 
focus groups
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Raise Awareness 
of Services

Recommendation # 1 

109

 Of violent crime victims…

Of all participants…

58%

did not seek or receive services 
because they did not know how or 
where to get support services.

66%

didn’t know if violent crime 
victims were eligible for 
compensation from the state.

56%

would not know where to access 
services if themselves or a family 
member were to become a victim 
of violent crime.
Data from Aeffect Victim Survey

Recommendation # 1 

“It…just takes people a long time to realize 
that they need [services], what kind of 
services they need and that they exist and 
then where do you go to get them…
we don’t really want to make people do all 
the work to come find us anymore.”

Recommendation # 1 

110

 Recommendation # 2 

Fundamental Needs 

Physical safety, employment, 
resources, family, health

Food, water, shelter, clothing, sleep

Recommendation # 2 

111

 Address fundamental needs by funding services to 
help victims overcome barriers
• Emergency and longer term housing

• Safety planning
Feeling unsafe                                   
• Legal/CJ advocacy

Loss of job/income

• Help applying for victim compensation
• Employment services
• Help applying for public resources

Limited/no English

• Language/translation services
• Help understanding legal options in native language
• Informational resources printed in other languages

No transportation

• Transportation
• Mobile services
• Technology to increase access to services

Recommendation # 2 

“Just basic needs … roof, food, utilities. 
After sexual assault, one may not be able to 
function for a while. They may lose their job 
even though we have legislation [VESSA] to 
prevent this. Even if you … [use this 
protection], you will not be paid.”
“Now you are carrying a much heavier burden … 
compounded by triggers … smell, hearing, sight. Maybe 
you were assaulted in your home and must sleep in the 
same room where it happened, because you can’t afford 
to move. Just having utilities is helpful. Knowing you can 
put food on the table for your kids is one less thing to 
worry about.”

Recommendation # 2 

112

 Core Services
Recommendation # 3

Services considered essential or high priority
by more than half of VSPs
Individual counseling
Crisis intervention
Children's services
Mental health
Information/advocacy on public resources
Medical/health care services
Family counseling
Applying for crime victim compensation
Emergency shelter
Housing
Justice system information/advocacy
Civil legal assistance
Transportation
Percent of VSPs 0%

20%

Essential

40%

60%

80%

100%

High Priority

Recommendation # 3

113

 “One of the things that is so frustrating … there are 
core services we provide: emergency shelter, legal 
advocacy, crisis counseling. If you don’t have these 
foundational pieces, you can’t expand or do anything 
new.”

“[funders] … want innovation, they want expanding
partnerships. I get that. But if you don’t fund the core
services … it can make us weaker … it pulls staff,
resources, and energy away from the core.”

“Exactly… it’s like … building a house of cards,
if you don’t have the strong core services.”

45%

of VSPs reported decreased capacity to serve victims
during the past year.

Recommendation # 3 

Recommendation # 4 

More Advocates & Social Workers in More Places

114

 According to VSPs…  
Three most 
meaningful points 
of contact for 
facilitating victim 
help seeking
1) Law enforcement (57%)
2) Hospitals/medical 
providers (47%)
3) Courthouses (36%)

1) Universities/colleges 
(81%)
2) Prosecutors (56%)
3) Medical providers (50%)

Three least 
frequent referral 
sources (never, 
rarely, occasionally)
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 4 

According to victims of violence…
– 16% received services from law enforcement.
– 12% received services from a medical/health care 
organization.
– 8% received services from a state’s attorney.
– 6% received services from a teacher or professor.
– 14% received services from a victim services/non‐
profit organization.
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Data from Aeffect Victim Survey

Recommendation # 4

115

 “…it’s a way to really

“…the follow up, not just a card or here’s a number, but

get at the initial

do you have the ability to get there … helping

access point

them

get to that point. Whoever their point of entry is
because it could be several people .. Hospital,

and make a
connection.”

police, a call-in … it has to be that person at entry.”

“ Big and broad they need 
more, seriously they need more 
… they need advocates 
everywhere. What we’ve 
learned over the years … the 
more advocates available, the 
more likely people [will] 
continue and achieve whatever 
goals they’re looking for.”

“… the medical community
[should have] advocates too
… there

just aren’t
advocates for
most crime victims

at all. … There’s a lot of
people out there [who have]
no clue where to go.

Where do I go?”

Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 4

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   85

Underserved Victims

Underserved Victims

Recommendation # 5 

116

 Recommendation # 5
Recommendation #7 

Underserved Populations
Tagalog
“…20% of the clients were not 
English speaking.” (North)

Spanish
Mandarin

“[During a supervised child
visitation the] parent didn’t
speak any English at all so
what is the purpose of this
person supervising visit…you
have no idea what is being
said…I’m sure there’s a lot
you can pick up from tone
and body language…there’s
also so much you miss by not
understanding a word that’s
being said.” (Central)

French

Polish

Arabic
Korean
American Sign
Language

“…we serve [victims from] 75
countries. So Spanish is
helpful sometimes but we
serve so many different
languages that so many
places can’t support.” (Cook)

“…when I started here 21
years ago, it was like
11% of our clients
identified as Latino…now
30% of our client base
identifies as Latino and of
those, almost half are
monolingual Spanish
speakers.” (Collar)

Recommendation # 5
Recommendation #7 

117

 Underserved Populations

Housing
Transportation

Recommendation # 5
Recommendation #7 

Multiple Victimization
Experiences

Recommendation # 6 

118

 Multiple Victimizations
How frequently does your agency see victims who experience
multiple forms of victimization?

Recommendation # 6 

Multiple Victimizations
57%

Any crime victim 
with more than 
one crime type

72%

Violent crime victim 
with more than one 
crime type
Data from Aeffect Victim Survey

Recommendation # 6 
Recommendation #6

119

 Multidisciplinary
Responses
Recommendation # 7 

Multidisciplinary Responses

Collaborators
Police
Detectives

Social Workers
Caseworkers

Advocates
Therapists

Researchers
Evaluators

Attorneys
Advocates

Doctors
Nurses
Clinicians

Ministers
Priests
Rabbis
Mentors

Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 7 

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   94

120

 Multidisciplinary Responses
multi‐disciplinary team 
coordination and a trauma based learning 

“Increased 

collaborative have been helpful for our victims.”
“We also need to continue

strong working

relationships with other victim service providers
and law enforcement or prosecutors in our area.”

Recommendation # 7 
Recommendation #8

Multidisciplinary Responses

Challenges

Recommendation # 7 

121

 Trauma Services

Recommendation # 8

TRAUMA SERVICES
Trauma‐informed: services tailored to meet the needs 
of crime victims with consideration of their trauma histories and 
cultural backgrounds

Trauma‐focused: services to address trauma symptoms 
and the impact of trauma on the victim.
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 8

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   98

122

 “trauma therapists, wouldn’t that be awesome?” 

“To stabilize people, you need to treat trauma, you have 
to have qualified people to do trauma work…it is more 
expensive…and there is less of them or a big waiting list.”

I would add to that not only access to counseling but access to 
quality trauma informed mental health services. Many of the 
clients we see…have a variety of host of issues that might be 
connected to their trauma…and we don’t have a good place to 
send that person for more advanced care. 

Recommendation # 8 

Longer‐Term Services
Recommendation # 9

123

 “[Victims] come in with increasingly 
complex needs and I think a lot of it is 
because a lot of services have closed 
and…these clients need to be in services 
for a lot longer.”

“And the thing we continue to run up 
against is the difficulties in accessing 
longer term mental health support. 
Whether that’s longer term counseling, 
therapy, psychiatry…”

Recommendation # 9 

CJS Information &
Advocacy

Crisis Intervention

Emergency Housing

Life Skills

Permanent Housing

Counseling
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 9 

124

 CJS Information &
Advocacy

Crisis Intervention

Emergency Housing

Life Skills

Permanent Housing

Counseling
Icons made by Freepik from www.flaticon.com

Recommendation # 9 

We are really focusing on that frontline crisis emergency 
services and we were at a place where trying to provide some of 
longer term services was at the expense of the people in 
crisis….But that doesn’t change the fact that many of them have 
really complex trauma, childhood abuse issues and sexual 
assault issues, and that really they need longer term supports
than we can’t provide and it’s really hard to find them in the 
community.” 

Recommendation #9 

125

 Address Community Violence
Recommendation # 10

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   105

•
•
•

Internalizing and
externalizing behaviors
Trauma symptomology
Fear, safety concerns

•
•

Stress
Family conflict

•
•
•

Distrust
Informal social control
Collective efficacy

Recommendation # 10

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   106

126

 “. . . is a community that has so much
violence. . . not only domestic violence
but community violence.”
“One thing that we don’t really have
and with gun crime going up, are any
“Much research exists which points trauma services for
neighborhoods or victims of gun
directly to the devastating impact
crimes . . . having an outlet for people
violence exposure has for
to feel empowered against gun
children and the ramifications for
violence rather than having to put
NOT treating them/ providing
up
with it would be a nice service . . .
services.”
to have.”
“[elimination of state funding] . . . has resulted in children
who have been traumatized by community violence
having to be referred out to other agencies who are not
specifically trained to provide services to this young
population.”

Recommendation # 10

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   107

Recommendation # 11

Evidence-informed Practices
1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   108

127

 Recommendation # 11

Community 

Research

Field experience

• Satisfaction surveys
• Case studies

Evidence‐
informed
• Correlational studies
• Pre/posttest surveys

Opinion‐
informed

• Quasi‐experimental
• Random control trials

Evidence‐
based

Data collection
Outcomes
Evaluation

Recommendation # 12

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   110

128

 Promote strong implementation

Facilitate quality improvement efforts

Support sustainability

Recommendation # 12

1/24/2017   Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority   111

Recommendations
Promote awareness and access
•
•
•

Fund initiatives that raise the public’s awareness of victim services.
Increase funding for advocates and social workers within a variety of organizations to increase
victim access to immediate services.
Increase funding of services for underserved victims of crime.

Address core needs
•
•

Increase funding to address fundamental needs of crime victims.
Fund core direct services to victims of all crime types.

Victim centered and informed
•
•
•

Encourage development and expansion of programs that address the impact of multiple
victimization experiences.
Promote multidisciplinary responses to victimization.
Encourage trauma-informed and trauma-focused services for victims of crime.

Fill key gaps
• Fund services that address long-term victim needs, such as counseling and mental health services.
• Support programs that specifically address needs of individuals exposed to community violence.

Implementation, outcomes, sustainability
•
•

Encourage the use of evidence-informed (or promising) and evidence-based practices and
programming.
Fund activities that encourage data collection and reporting, document victim outcomes, facilitate
program evaluation, and increase knowledge of victimization and service provision in Illinois.

129

 Violence Against Women Act 
(VAWA) Plan and Implementation 
Update
Federal and State Grants Unit
Shataun Hailey, VAWA Program Manager

Purpose Areas of VAWA
 Training officers, judges, prosecutors.
 Expanding specialized units specifically trained on violent crimes against women.
 Developing and implementing policies, and protocols, etc.
 Developing, installing, or expanding data collection and communication systems.
 Developing, enlarging, or strengthening victim services programs focusing on domestic                     
violence
 Developing, enlarging, or strengthening programs addressing stalking.
 Supporting formal and informal statewide, multidisciplinary efforts.

130

 VAWA Update
• Follow‐up from 2013 Ad Hoc Committee planning 
meeting
• Recommendations and Priorities
– Police, Prosecution and Judges trained and specialized in 
multidisciplinary topics
– Funding multidisciplinary models and training

What are Multidisciplinary Teams?

131

 MDT Sites
Domestic Violence
Cook County
Peoria County
St. Clair County 

Sexual Assault
Cook County
Kankakee County

Current VAWA Distribution to MDTs
St. Clair DV
24%

Cook DV
16%

Cook SA
16%

Peoria DV
26%
Kankakee SA
18%

132

 Critical Elements of an MDT
• Involve key agencies at the outset of the project, and work out 
potential issues and problems in advance
• A designated project coordinator who can devote at least 50% 
time to the MDT
• A specialized court with judges who are trained about the cycle of 
domestic violence and victim issues
• Specialized prosecuting attorneys, law enforcement, and probation 
officers who are part of the regular membership of the MDT
• Co‐location of advocates and law enforcement, either at a central 
location such as a family justice center or at the police department 
(“one‐stop shop”)

Critical Elements of the MDT
• Initial protocol development and regular review of response 
protocols for all MDT member agencies and the willingness to 
develop new protocols
• Active involvement of agency leadership in all aspects of the 
MDT
• Case reviews
• Law enforcement evidence collection more likely to be 
directed by needs of prosecutors
• Expedited and enhanced victim services

133

 Structure of the Sexual Assault & Domestic
Violence MDT

VICTIM SERVICES
LAW ENFORCEMENT

PROSECUTION
PROBATION

COURTS

NON-FUNDED
PARTNERS

MDT Benefits
• MDTs enhance communication and improve team 
members’ knowledge of one another’s 
responsibilities
• Specialized trainings
• Enhances victim safety and holds offenders 
accountable
• Evidence collection and documentation is improved
• Concerns and responses are handled through regular 
meetings and case reviews

134

 Challenges to an MDT
• Making services available to underserved population
• Funding uncertainty and sustainability
• Maintaining MDT momentum and participation
• Institutional advocacy: coordinating policy development and 
implementation across agencies

Multidisciplinary Team Approach 
Discussion
Research and Analysis Unit
Dr. Megan Alderden, Associate Director of Research

135

 Day One Review and Preview of 
Day Two
Paula Wolff, Chair
ICJIA Strategic Opportunities Committee

136

 Addendum II
Feedback from Committee Members

On January 10 and 11, 2017, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (ICJIA)
convened the Ad Hoc Victim Services Planning Committee to consult and coordinate its efforts
to establish recommended funding priorities for Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) and Violence
Against Women Act (VAWA) funds. Facilitated Committee and interdisciplinary breakout group
discussions were used to elicit feedback from Committee members about the research findings
and 12 funding recommendations (Table 1). This document summarizes common themes
garnered from those discussions that the State should consider when implementing the
proposed recommendations.
Table 1
Twelve Recommended Funding Priorities
Promote Awareness and Access
1. Fund initiatives that raise the public’s awareness of victim services.
2. Increase funding for advocates and social workers within a variety of organizations to
increase victim access to immediate services.
3. Increase funding of services for underserved victims of crime.
Address Core Needs
4. Increase funding to address fundamental needs of crime victims.
5. Fund core direct services to victims of all crime types.
Victim-Centered and Trauma-Informed Services
6. Encourage development and expansion of programs that address the impact of
multiple victimization experiences.
7. Promote multidisciplinary responses to victimization.
8. Encourage trauma-informed and trauma-focused services for victims of crime.
Fill Key Gaps
9. Fund services that address long-term victim needs, such as counseling and mental
health services.
10. Support programs that specifically address needs of individuals exposed to community
violence.
Implementation, Outcomes, Sustainability
11. Encourage the use of evidence-informed (or promising) and evidence-based practices
and programming.
12. Fund activities that encourage data collection and reporting, document victim
outcomes, facilitate program evaluation, and increase knowledge of victimization and
service provision in Illinois.

Promote Awareness and Access
The discussion about increased funding for promotion of and increasing access to
services focused on three recommendations: promoting victim services to increase service

137

 seeking, increasing access to services by placing social workers and advocates within a variety of
settings, and addressing the needs of underserved victims. Overall, members generally
supported an increase in funding to strengthen activities that promoted and increased access to
services.
Public awareness campaigns. Committee members highlighted the need to educate
the general public, irrespective of victimization history, about services and victim rights. This
strategy was seen as beneficial for two reasons. First, members said this would increase service
utilization following victimization, as individuals will be more aware of victim services and their
eligibility to receive these services. Second, through greater education of the public, informal
supports, such as friends and family members, and non-traditional formal service providers in
schools and in the medical field may be more readily equipped to inform victims of services and
rights.
Strategies discussed by members included learning from public awareness campaigns
that target multiple audiences. Members emphasized targeting schools, churches, and
neighborhood residents, as well as highly victimized populations, such as individuals who are
homeless. While these strategies might include large-scale efforts, members emphasized
promotion efforts should be tailored for specific victim groups and geographic locations. In
some cases, individuals may not identify themselves as victims. In addition, cultural attitudes
may impact how people view service seeking. Awareness campaigns should consider these
barriers. Campaigns also can dispel myths about who qualifies for services. For instance,
members discussed how some victims may believe only those who report to police can obtain
services or that delays in service seeking limits one’s eligibility to receive services.
Survivor input and leadership. Members noted that strategies that promote and
increase access to victim services are strongest when informed by survivors, as they can best
help agencies identify challenges and barriers to service access. One challenge noted was
completing paperwork, which can be burdensome to someone who was recently victimized.
Members also discussed the research finding that many victims reported being unaware of
victim services. Members blamed the lack of awareness on timing. Victim service information is
often provided while the victim is in crisis, directly following a traumatic event when one’s
ability to process information is compromised.
Move up the point of contact. Members suggested making more information
available in the community at multiple locations. Many advocates in Illinois are housed in state’s
attorney’s offices. Victims that choose not to report their experiences to police or whose
victimization does not result in an arrest and/or prosecution would not have access to those
advocates. Schools, colleges, legal aid clinics, hospitals, and police agencies were identified as
additional places where victim service information could be provided and advocates could be
placed.
Active engagement. Members emphasized the need for active community outreach
and engagement activities to increase access to services. Such activities require providers to go
out into the community where victims live versus waiting for victims to show up for services. A
main theme expressed during the meeting was that providers and criminal justice practitioners
need to meet victims where they are and make it easier for victims to know about, find, and
access resources. Active follow-up with victims after they have made an initial contact was a
specific strategy mentioned. Active follow-up also could help reach and engage underserved
victims, including those who have limited means and ability to travel to service providers.

138

 Leverage technology. Technology, such as that which facilitates telemedicine and
mobile victim services units, were highlighted as potential strategies to increase access to
services. Such strategies may be particularly useful in rural areas or for victims with limited
mobility. This strategy can increase victim access to specialists with knowledge and expertise
that is not always readily available in Illinois communities.
Address Core Needs
The next set of recommendations focused on increasing funding to address the
fundamental and core needs of victims. Fundamental needs of victims include transportation,
language services, housing relocation, emergency and permanent housing, life skills training,
and legal assistance. Core services include early crisis intervention, criminal justice information
and advocacy, mental health and counseling, legal services, housing/relocation, and assistance
applying for victim’s compensation.
Meet needs that address accessibility. Members recognized the need for support
services that reduce barriers to service engagement, such as transportation, translation services,
and child care. Services need to be in the language of the victim or, at minimum, victims should
have access to translation services when seeking any type of service or engaging in the criminal
justice system. Increasing victims’ access to support services was seen as crucial to engaging
underserved victims, many of whom are isolated because of mobility, language, or other
barriers.
Better case management and coordination. Efforts that facilitate enhanced
service provider coordination should be supported, Committee members said. The need for case
managers to connect victims to services was highlighted as key. Efforts to create more
coordinated victim services require staff devoted to building interagency relationships. Members
noted that funding is needed to support supervisors and higher-level staff to engage this work.
Scarce and dwindling referral networks. The ability to meet the needs of survivors
has decreased due to a dwindling referral network, members said, particularly in the area of
mental health services. Funding is needed to reestablish this referral network to ensure that
victims are able to access adequate services that meet the various needs of victims that can
change overtime.
Victim-Centered and Trauma-Informed Services
Members discussed how the State could support programs that were sensitive to the
trauma of survivors facing the complexity of multiple victimizations. In addition, at multiple
points during the retreat, members emphasized the importance of being victim-centered in
ICJIA-supported practices and programs. For instance, one member highlighted the need for
ICJIA to communicate in its notices of funding opportunity that criminal justice system
involvement is not required for victims to receive VOCA-funded services. Members suggested
that ICJIA encourage agencies to adopt victim-centered principles and monitor their
implementation.
Trauma training for the community. Educating the community about what trauma
is and how exposure to violence may manifest in internal and external behaviors was discussed.
Members said entities such as schools, churches, and prisons should consider the existence of
trauma in forming disciplinary actions and move from a punitive to a supportive model, where

139

 appropriate. Members said training is needed for those who regularly engage with people in
high crime neighborhoods to help them identify behaviors resulting from trauma.
Specialized training specifically on complex trauma and multiple
victimizations. Members expressed the need to move beyond “Trauma 101” trainings for
providers and criminal justice practitioners because they are seeing more complex trauma.
Trauma resulting from poly-victimization, or multiple, different victimizations that occur over
one’s lifetime, often requires specialized support and psychological care or services, which
members said providers needed to be better trained to address. Training should convey
information that assists providers in recognizing and identifying the needs of victims and the
most appropriate services.
Define trauma-informed. Members emphasized the need for ICJIA to be clear about
what trauma-informed means and how it will be interpreted in the policies and procedures of
the programs it supports. ICJIA staff and members agreed that the goal of trauma-informed
practices and programs is to prevent re-victimization. Members said providers need funding and
technical assistance to become trauma-informed. ICJIA should work with victim service
providers to also identify and address other barriers that prevent programs from implementing
trauma-informed practices and policies.
Victim voice and education. Members said survivor voices and leadership should be
considered when tailoring programs to meet victim needs. During interviews with victims,
Aeffect found that victims expressed a need for a roadmap of the services available. Members
said victims who have gone through these systems may be helpful in designing these materials.
It was also believed by members that these materials may help to manage victim expectations
and reduce misunderstandings that result in victims feeling unsupported or misinformed about
the process.
Fill Key Gaps: Long-Term Counseling and Mental Health Care
The next recommendation focused on the first gap identified: long-term counseling and
mental health services. Counseling is intended to offer emotional support, guidance, or
assistance, including telephone, individual, group, or family counseling sessions. Mental health
care, on the other hand, involves intensive, professional psychological or psychiatric treatment
including, but not limited to, evaluation of mental health needs and delivery of specialized
therapeutic interventions.
Support for long-term services. Members expressed support for the finding that
services are needed for longer periods and often beyond the crisis stage. Researchers reported
that providers, whose referral networks have dwindled due to diminishing resources, have opted
to focus their limited resources on primarily serving victims in crisis. Members strategized
around how to address this issue given current constraints. One breakout group discussed how
victim service providers could link victims to mental health providers who have the capacity to
provide longer services. Members discussed how agencies who have the capacity and
infrastructure to fund longer care or can leverage more consistent forms of funding such as
Medicaid may assist in providing more holistic and consistent services for victims.
Specialized, victim-centered service plans. Members placed an emphasis on
counseling and mental health services being victim-centered, or driven by the victim’s agenda,
and trauma-informed. Members noted that victims’ needs vary. Specifically with counseling and

140

 mental health, practitioners should work with victims to identify whether and when supportive
counseling, individual counseling, or more specialized mental health care is needed. For some
victims, peer support may suffice, while for others individualized care is preferred. Similarly,
length of service provision will vary and should reflect the particular needs of individual victims.
Remove barriers to victims engaging in services. Specific barriers to victim
engagement in counseling and mental health care include stigma around using mental health
services, long wait lists, and lack of awareness about the types of services available. Members
indicated that funded programs should consider and address these barriers to services to
maximize their utilization.
Fill Key Gaps: Community Violence
The next recommendation focused on the second gap identified: services to address
community violence. Members discussed the importance of using funds to support victims of
community violence and persons exposed to community violence. Support programs must
address the unique challenges of those who have suffered multiple, different victimizations and
exposure to community violence during their lifetimes.
Address perceptions about the offender-victim dyad. In addressing community
violence, members expressed a need to address historical perceptions of the offender-victim
dyad. Often behaviors perceived as perpetration or as problem behaviors are motivated by
learned coping and survival strategies. Once someone is labeled an offender, their victimization
may be seen as irrelevant. By educating practitioners about the offender-victim dyad and
working to change these perceptions, individuals who are both victims and offenders may be
more willing and able to access services.
Incorporate victim-centered restorative justice. Some members suggested
exploring restorative justice practices, specifically in highly victimized communities and in
communities with greater distrust of the criminal justice system or law enforcement entities.
Restorative justice may be a way for victims to find healing and victim-defined justice, rather
than justice defined by the criminal justice system. Restorative justice programs that are victimcentered are fundable through VOCA.
Leverage native messengers. Members shared that any strategy to address
community violence should include community members who can work to educate the
neighborhood residents and provide victim support. These individuals may include
grandmothers, mothers, and veterans. Individuals who have been both victims and offenders
may also be important messengers to similarly situated persons. Members said these
messengers could facilitate earlier forms of intervention and increase service utilization. Given
the nature of highly victimized or exposed communities, early intervention was seen as
important by members, especially for younger children and their families.
Take an ecological and public health approach to violence. Members also
recommended a public health approach to community violence, promoting coordinated,
complementary service intervention at multiple levels. Members emphasized programming not
just for individuals, but also their families and the community as the whole to achieve broader
impact and systemic change.
Implementation, Outcomes, Sustainability

141

 Finally, members were asked to reflect on recommendations focused on evidenceinformed programming and encouraging data collection and evaluation efforts of providers that
can be used to support strong implementation, produce positive outcomes, and promote
program sustainability.
System integration of data sources. Members expressed frustration over an
inability to connect data from different state agencies or entities to track victims and their
outcomes. A State-led effort is needed to address barriers to system integration.
Develop statewide outcomes. In discussing data and outcomes, members suggested
ICJIA take the lead in developing larger outcomes that will allow the state to gauge progress on
broader goals that span across different services and victim groups. Developing performance
measures that document the State’s progress in achieving specific, intended goals was perceived
as key to ensuring success. Victims and victim service providers should be consulted when
developing the outcome measures.
Support victim service provider data collection efforts. Engaging in data
collection or evidence-informed programming is challenging for service providers and having a
coordinator is key to reducing the burden on direct service staff and ensuring proper follow-up
with victims. Members saw the benefits of a coordinator to manage the project and keep track of
fidelity and completeness of the data. Furthermore, members suggested that compensation for
the work required to engage in research, including provider and victim compensation for
research participation, may be needed.
Technical assistance to collect own data. Members said victim service providers
need technical assistance from the State on effective data collection and how to use data to
improve and justify their programs.
Assistance identifying best-practices and programs. Members felt ICJIA staff
and other experts also need to assist victim service providers in identifying and implementing
evidence-informed and promising practices and programming. This includes providing
information about program fidelity, adaptation, and implementation of evidence-informed
practices. For instance, victim service providers may be unsure about how to implement a
program with fidelity, but also tailor the program to be culturally-sensitivity to the populations
served.
Collect data that reflects different groups. Members wondered about how data
collection practices can better reflect different groups, specifically underserved groups. For
instance, Arab Americans are counted in the “white” race category. This masks their needs as
well as use of services. Members said the State should work with victim service providers to
develop data collection protocols that help document and illuminate potentially underserved or
undercounted populations. Current efforts are underway to update and improve InfoNet, a
statewide database used by some service providers to document victim needs and the services
received.
General Barriers
Members identified general barriers to the implementation of the recommendations
made by ICJIA. These barriers were seen across recommendations and were key points that
providers said the State should to be aware of and consider to improve victim services delivery
in Illinois.

142

 Resource dependency issues. Members expressed frustration with fund guidelines
and priorities that limit their ability to comprehensively meet the needs of victims. They
expressed a need to change the funding allocation process to allow victim service providers the
opportunity to state their needs and for funding to fill then these gaps. While members
recognized that VOCA and VAWA funds are restricted by the federal guidelines, they expressed a
desire for ICJIA to convene non-federal funders to strategize on meeting victim needs. Other
members expressed a desire to have access to the data that can be used to advocate for changes
in policy that currently restrict how funds can be spent.
Siloed and inconsistent funding. Members also expressed frustration over how
funding is siloed and on one-year grant cycles. Members said that siloed funding restricts
provider ability to serve victims holistically because they are only able to provide services for a
specific type of victimization or service instead of the comprehensive needs of victims.
Additionally, members emphasized how one-year funding cycles limit their ability to provide
long-term services or enhance their programming to better meet victim needs because of the
uncertainty of funding. Members also pointed out that multi-year funding is necessary to see
positive, long-term outcomes, particularly for newer, innovative programs.
Lack of specialists. Members highlighted a lack of specialists located in Illinois to
provide specific services, especially in more rural areas. A lack of medical specialists who work
with abused children and trauma trained mental health professionals were noted. These
specialists are few in number, expensive, and not easily accessible, specifically for victims
outside of metropolitan areas.
Confidentiality and information sharing. Confidentiality and the goal of sharing
information within collaborative models are in conflict with one another. Members shared
challenges to navigating collaborative models like multidisciplinary teams when key team
members are unable or unwilling to exchange information about cases.
The Role of ICJIA
Throughout the meeting, members reflected on the role of the ICJIA in helping service
providers meet the needs of victims. Key considerations related to the 12 recommendations
include the monitoring of programs to ensure they are delivering services that are victimcentered and continued convening of stakeholders to set high-level goals and processes that
address victimization comprehensively and support providers holistically. ICJIA should also
work with other State agencies that fund victim services on filling funding gaps that will exist
because of federal restrictions related to VOCA/VAWA funds.

143

 