ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 6, 2015
11:30 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
The Budget Committee of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority met on
Thursday, August 6, 2015, at 300 West Adams, Suite 200, Large Conference Room,
Chicago, Illinois. Authority Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora (representing
Attorney General Lisa Madigan) called the meeting to order at 11:32 a.m. Authority
General Counsel Lisa Stephens called the roll. Other Authority members and designees
present were Philip Roy for State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez, Amy Campanelli, Kathryn
Dunne for Sheriff Tom Dart, Director Patrick Delfino, Director Kevin T. McClain,
Pamela Paziotopoulos, Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb, Director Leo Schmitz,
Director George H. Sheldon, Chief Rick Tanksley, and Paula Wolff. Also in attendance
were Authority Executive Director John Maki, Authority Deputy General Counsel Junaid
Afeef, Authority Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt, Authority Program Supervisor Greg
Stevens, Authority Program Supervisor Mary Ratliff (via teleconference), Authority
Federal and State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow, Rebecca Janowitz
of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and other Authority staff members and
guests.

Executive Director’s Remarks
Executive Director John Maki said that he was excited for this meeting. Having been a
Board Member in the past, he recognized that the Budget Committee (BC) is critical to
the Authority’s work. He said that he looked forward to making the BC process stronger,
more effective, and more strategic.

1. Public Comment
None.

 2. Authority Funding Overview
BC Chair Cynthia Hora, addressing the Current Programs Briefing Book included in the
meeting materials, said that staff would provide an overview of the Authority’s various
funding sources and that the Current Programs Briefing Book would serve as a good
future reference resource for Board / Budget Committee members.
Executive Director Maki said that the funding streams that the BC oversees are
complicated; they behave differently and have different requirements. It will take time to
learn all of the details. Funding comes from two general sources; the Federal Government
and State Government. Federal funds come from either Formula Awards or Discretionary
Awards. State funding, which is relatively new to the Authority in the last few years, has
been difficult to absorb into the Authority’s internal processes, which were designed to
handle federal funds. Federal funds often allow for greater Authority discretion in their
use, but the Authority serves as more of a pass-through agent for state funds. State funds
will be introduced once a State Budget is in place and they will act somewhat differently
than the federal funds. The bulk of the work that the Authority does in terms of research
and funding to strengthen and seed programs stems from federal programs.
Authority Program Supervisors Greg Stevens and Ron Reichgelt delivered a PowerPoint
presentation highlighting information provided in the Current Programs Briefing Book
included in the meeting materials. They addressed the following federal programs:
Federal Formula Programs
Justice Assistance Grants (JAG)

National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act
(NFSIA)
Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA)
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act
(RSAT)
Sex Offender Registration and Notification
Act (SORNA)
Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
Violence Against Women Act Sexual Assault
Services Program (VAWA SASP)
Victims of Crime Act (VOCA)

Federal Discretionary Programs`
National Instant Criminal Background
Check System Reporting Improvement
Program (NARIP)
Post-Conviction DNA Testing Program
(PDNAT)
Project Safe Neighborhoods (PSN)
Violence Against Women Act Arrest
Program (VAWA A)

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 6, 2015
Page 2

 3. Budget Committee Mission and Role
Executive Director Maki said that part of the reason that he wanted to hold this
orientation meeting was a product of his prior experience as an Authority Board member.
He said that during that time, he was not clear as to what the BC’s role or mission was.
He said that there is a certain perception that he wants to address head-on and it revolves
around a question on the outside as to how funds are spent at the Authority; the
perception is that funds are awarded to whoever comes here asking for it. That
misperception comes from a fundamental breakdown in the Authority’s processes. When
the Authority was established, it was set up to do two primary things; strategic planning
and funding oversight. Nationwide, the Authority is still regarded as the gold standard of
this type of work. In the 1980’s and 1990’s the Authority did phenomenal work around
information systems, crime mapping, funding, etc. Over time, the planning function
eroded. The federal programs require a degree of planning and the Authority has been
very responsive to that, but those planning processes did not filter up to the Board’s level;
the Board did not quite know what the plans were. At the budget level, this was
problematic because one of the BC’s jobs is to determine whether or not the programs
recommended for funding designations fit within the priorities and a large part of this a
consideration of what research has to offer regarding program performance. As a board
and as an agency, the Authority needs to return to a model of having research informing
funding and funding informing research. The BC plays a central oversight role in this
model.
Executive Director Maki said that under current rules, the BC is supposed to review the
Authority’s general operating budget. That funding has been cut severely in recent years,
resulting in a skeletal operation. The BC also oversees information systems funding. The
BC will review fiscal reports and procedures. He said that he wanted the BC to have
more input to the General Assembly and the Governor’s Office.
Planning – Executive Director Maki said that in the past, the Board and staff worked
together on planning. There were some attempts to do this in recent years, but they were
not quite as effective as they could have been. To address this, the new Strategic
Opportunities Committee (SOC) has been created and will be chaired by Paula Wolff.
The SOC will be tasked with developing priorities and goals and how research will
support those goals. The SOC will develop a plan to be presented to and approved by the
Board that will lay out the framework for how the Board and the Agency should proceed
and for how the BC should operate within that framework. He said that ideally, the
representatives of the justice system that make up the Board would discuss larger
overarching issues. Since the Authority has lost some of that high-level functionality, the
BC has become almost a review committee; the BC often discusses finer details of
specific program funding recommendations. However, the Authority has staff dedicated
to performing such reviews internally, so that when a designation recommendation is

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 6, 2015
Page 3

 presented to the BC, the recommendation has already been technically vetted. He said
that staff often does not present to the BC programs that they no longer recommend for
funding partly because specific funding periods had been built into the funding
recommendations and that is something that has been lost.
Budget Committee Grant Recommendation Report Template - Executive Director Maki
called attention to Budget Committee Grant Recommendation Report template included
in the meeting materials. The template is designed to illustrate the long-term plan for
funding for the recommended designation and the grantee’s plan to address program
sustainability.

4. Grant Administration and Process
Mr. Reichgelt, addressing a PowerPoint slide, said that some of the Authority’s longstanding process will change with the implementation of the new Grant Accountability
and Transparency Act (GATA). He described the steps per the following outline:
1. Budget Committee Designation
2. Internal Review:
A. Monitor Review
B. Fiscal review
C. Legal Review
3. Execution of Interagency Agreement
4. Grant Monitoring:
A. Collection and Review of Data Reports
B. Collection and Review of Fiscal Reports
C. Disbursal of Funds
D. Site Visits
E. Technical Assistance
F. Closeout
Mr. Reichgelt said that the order of these step might change as the process is tweaked, but
these are the basic steps that every grant must go through. Information gathered during
this process informs future staff recommendations to either continue or discontinue
funding.
Executive Director Maki, in response to a question by Rebecca Janowitz (representing
the Cook County Board), said that there are two main ways that a program comes to be
selected for funding; a request-for-proposals (RFP) process or a needs-based analysis. He
said that in the future, program funding will be more RFP-driven.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 6, 2015
Page 4

 General Counsel Lisa Stephens said that needs-based proposals often come from the
Board itself.
Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA) – Deputy General Counsel Junaid
Afeef said that GATA was enacted to increase accountability and to reduce
administrative burdens on both grantor agencies and grantees. To do this, Illinois has
adopted many of the rules that the federal government uses for its grant administration
programs and new rules will be developed wherever the federal rules prove to not be a
good fit. The federal rules will be modified so that they can be implemented for statelevel discretionary and pass-through grants from the legislature. The Single Audit
Commission will review these modifications and make further changes as necessary.
Grants funded pursuant to GATA will be limited to three years of funding without being
subject to a new RFP. Other specific rules have not yet been adopted at this time.

5. Grant Recovery
Deputy General Counsel Afeef said that Illinois has the Grant Funds Recovery Act
(GFRA). He said that until 2012, thanks to a combination of the Authority’s staff,
processes, and the types of grants that it has administered, the Authority never had a need
to implement the GFRA’s provisions to recover unspent or misspent funds. The GFRA
requires that any unspent funds must be returned within 45 days of the end of a grant. In
2013, the Authority absorbed the Illinois Violence Prevention Authority (IVPA). The
IVPA oversaw a program called the Neighborhood Recovery Initiative (NRI). The
Authority was tasked with taking on the administration of NRI and recovering the
unspent or misspent NRI funds. As of this meeting, the Authority has recovered
approximately $4 million in unspent or misspent funds from the NRI programs. All of
these issues were legacy issues from the IVPA’s administration of these programs.
Deputy General Counsel Afeef said that there are two processes used to recover these
funds:
•

Informal Hearing Process – When Authority staff identifies unrecovered unspent
or misspent funds, the first step is an informal hearing. Authority staff meets with
grantee staff to try to resolve the issue and work out a repayment plan. Most such
issues are resolved at the informal hearing

•

Formal Hearing Process – The Authority does not have administrative law judges
because the Authority has never had to deal with formal hearings in the past. The
Authority entered into an intergovernmental agreement (IGA) with the Illinois
Department of Public Health (IDPH) for the use of IDPH’s administrative rules
and administrative law judges to conduct formal hearings. All such judgements
are turned over to the Illinois Attorney General’s Office as necessary.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 6, 2015
Page 5

 Deputy General Counsel Afeef said that the Authority never settles for less than the
amounts owed. Most repayments are planned over a three- or six-month period. The
implementation of GATA will help the Authority manage grants in a way that makes it
very unlikely that it will have to pursue these processes in the future.

6. Justice Assistance Grants (JAG)
Executive Director Maki, referring to the memo in the materials dated August 6, 2015
and regarding the FFY11 JAG Plan Adjustments, said that in response to a spike in gun
violence a few years ago, a panel of national experts on gun violence was consulted to
form a strategy to combat gun violence. Authority staff has become aware of
communities throughout Illinois that want to learn about these strategies. This
designation would support a conference in Peoria, Illinois that will host representatives of
jurisdictions with the highest levels of gun violence so that they can learn what
techniques have been proven effective in combating gun violence in other communities.
The MacArthur and Joyce Foundations have agreed to provide food and beverage
services for this event.
Executive Director Maki, in response to a question by Director McClain, said that the
conference would attract police chiefs, county executives, mayors, probation officers,
community leaders, prosecutors, etc.
Director McClain said that, for future reference, the Illinois Law Enforcement Training
and Standards Board (ILETSB) has mobile team training systems throughout Illinois. All
law enforcement training must go through those mobile teams to obtain ILETSB
certification. He requested that the Authority involve the ILETSB’s mobile team system
in future law enforcement training programs so that participating officers can receive
proper certification.
Motion: Director Schmitz moved to approve the JAG FFY11 Plan Adjustment. Director
McClain seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to adjourn the meeting. Director Delfino seconded the
motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 1:10 p.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
August 6, 2015
Page 6

 