ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

Regular Board Meeting
Friday, June 3, 2016 9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-505
Chicago, IL

I.
II.

Call to Order and Roll Call
Approval of the March 3, 2016 Meeting minutes

III.

Chairman’s Remarks

IV.

ICJIA Audit Ad Hoc Committee

V.
VI.
VII.

VIII.

IX.
X.

Executive Director's Report
ICJIA Financial Report
Committee Reports
a. Budget Committee
b. Strategic Opportunities Committee
Research and Practice Presentation & Panel Discussion: Criminal Justice
Coordinating Councils
Public Comment
Other Business

This public meeting will be accessible to persons with disabilities in compliance with Executive Order #5 and pertinent State and
Federal laws upon anticipated attendance. Persons with disabilities planning to attend and needing special accommodations should
contact by telephone or letter to John Klaer, Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, 300 W. Adams St. Suite 200, Chicago,
Illinois, 60606-5150 or at (312) 793-8946. TDD services are available at (312) 793-4170.

Fax: (312) 793-8422 • TDD: (312) 793-4170 • www.icjia.state.il.us

 ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

REGULAR MEETING
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
Friday, March 11, 2016 at 9:01 a.m.
Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N. LaSalle, N-502
Chicago, Illinois

Roll Call
Authority Chair Elizabeth Robb welcomed Board members and guests to the quarterly
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Regular Meeting. She called the meeting
to order and asked Assistant General Counsel Robin Murphy to call the roll.
Authority Board Member Attendance
State’s Attorney Anita Alvarez
Director John Baldwin
Clerk Dorothy Brown
Public Defender Amy Campanelli (after roll call)
Sheriff Tom Dart
Director Patrick Delfino
Interim Superintendent John Escalante
Director Brent Fischer
Clerk Maureen Josh
State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Sheriff Michael McCoy
Ms. Pamela Paziotopoulos
Director Michael J. Pelletier
President Toni Preckwinkle
Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair
Director Leo Schmitz
Director Nirav Shah
Director George Shelton
Rick Tanksley
Ms. Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Paula Wolff, Committee Chair

Present

Telephone

Absent
X
X
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Judge Robb stated that there was not a quorum, however, if more members arrived and a
quorum was achieved, the December meeting minutes and other matters needing votes
would be addressed.

 Chair Robb thanked everyone for their attendance at the meeting and especially
acknowledged Rodger Heaton, Illinois Director of Public Safety, for attending the meeting.
Mr. Heaton is the chair of the Governor’s Commission on Criminal Justice and Sentence
Reform.
Chair Robb then welcomed new Board Member Brent Fischer, who was appointed
executive director of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board in
December. She then asked Director Maki to give the Director’s Report.
Executive Director’s Report
Director Maki began his remarks by sharing that the audit resulting from House Resolution
888 (HR 888) will be released in the near future. HR 888 calls for the Office of the
Inspector General to conduct an audit of the Authority’s Community Violence Prevention
Program.
Next, Director Maki explained the framework that has been developed for the upcoming
VOCA/VAWA planning process and asked members to refer to the VOCA/VAWA
Planning Memo in their materials. The intent of this planning process, as outlined in the
memo, is to present a framework to implement a fair, research driven, comprehensive plan
while working closely with victim service agency partners to shore up current services and
address unmet needs of victims of crime in Illinois through an unprecedented increase in
funding. Board members will have oversight over this process at the Victim Service
Advisory Committee meeting, where victims’ needs will be presented and addressed; at
the Budget Committee meeting, where funding recommendations will be presented, and at
the Authority’s regular quarterly meeting.
Director Maki reviewed the four pillars that will inform the planning process: federal rules
and regulations; state laws, including the 2014 Illinois Grants Accountability and
Transparency Act (GATA), which requires a rigorous use of competitive requests for
proposals to determine funding; Authority rules and guidelines; and the three-year
VOCA/VAWA Plan. He then provided an overview of the three main points in the memo
(Attachment A): technical assistance and Authority internal capacity building; expansion
of services under the current plan, and the strategic plan and implementation.
Chair Robb reminded members that the Authority two committees—the Budget Committee
and the Strategic Opportunities Committee—and has assigned members for the purposes
of quorum. Any Authority member can attend either committee and by attending may vote
on items.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 2

 Chief Fiscal Officer Randy Kurtz said the Authority hopes hire a victim needs assessment
contractor in May or June with a six-month timeline to complete the project. In addition,
the other internal staffing needs are being addressed immediately. In response to a question
regarding the 2017 VAWA plan deadline, VAWA and VOCA Program Administrator Ron
Reichgelt said the plan will most likely be due in March 2017. He also reminded the
members that all states are waiting for the federal government to approve and release new
guidelines related to grant making. With no other questions, Director Maki introduced
Junaid Afeef to discuss the Authority’s new Targeted Violence Prevention Program.
Mr. Afeef made a short presentation of the Targeted Violence Prevention Program that will
identify youth at risk for engaging in criminal domestic terrorism activities, identify the
issues that caused the youth to become interested in domestic terrorism, and provide
supportive services to the youth. He said in the 14-and-a-half years since September 11,
2001, 45 deaths have been the result of terrorism caused by individuals inspired by AlQueda or ISIS. In addition, the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) has 900 open
investigations in every state for individuals that are radicalizing online as well as
individuals trying to recruit others, he said. The FBI is investigating these crimes with the
goal of interdicting before the individuals act. Mr. Afeef explained there is a fear that
individuals will slip through the crack and/or choose to act so quickly that the FBI will not
have the ability to prevent an attack. There is also a concern that many of the individuals
being investigated are impressionable young people who may be set up, through
undercover investigations, to be successfully prosecuted. The end result of that scenario
does nothing to change their belief system, he said. Therefore several national groups have
begun to develop prevention programs for targeted violence across the spectrum of
ideology. Mr. Afeef said the FBI sees the Authority as perfectly situated to develop such
an initiative, as the agency marries research and grant making with board leadership that
touches on all the critical aspects of a prevention program. Mr. Afeef said with Rodger
Heaton’s leadership, the Governor’s Office has agreed to bring this program to Illinois. In
addition, at this time, the project will be supported with homeland security funds, he said,
adding the objective is to bring more resources as they become available at the federal level
to fund community-led prevention work. Mr. Afeef closed his remarks by saying that there
was great interest in this project and he looks forward to being able to present a more
thorough presentation in the near future. After a question from Ms. Hora, Mr. Afeef
clarified that the program is being supported with a grant from the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency (IEMA) to support his position.
Chairman’s Remarks
At this point in the meeting, a quorum was established so Chair Robb asked for the approval
of the meeting minutes of September 11, 2015, and December 16, 2015. President
Preckwinkle moved to accept the minutes and Ms. Wolf seconded the motion. The motion
was adopted by unanimous vote. Then Chair Robb called the members’ attention to two

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 3

 resolutions and summarized them for the members. The first was to honor Authority staff
member Lisa Stephens and the second was to honor former Authority member Kevin
McClain. Ms. Stephens served as the Authority’s general counsel and chief of staff from
April 2010 until January 2016, leaving to become the chief operating officer for a Chicago
non-profit aimed at addressing gun violence. The resolution outlined Ms. Stephen’s
important achievements and thanked her for her leadership.
Mr. McClain served on the Authority as director of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training
and Standards Board from August 2009 until he retired in December 2015. The resolution
outlined Mr. McClain’s achievements and commended him for his dedicated service. Judge
Robb asked for a unified motion to adopt the resolutions. President Preckwinkle made the
motion which was seconded by Ms. Wolff and unanimously adopted.
Authority Financial Report
Authority Chief Financial Officer Randy Kurtz outlined major fiscal matters for the
Authority members. He stated that in the first eight months of the state fiscal year, the
Authority spent about $22 million, with $17 million in grant expenditures, and
administrative costs comprising the balance. The expenditures included only federal funds
due to the lack of a state budget. Ninety-two percent of the $17 million were spent from
VOCA, VAWA and JAG funds. He said the Authority has maintained staff, is ready to
move quickly when the state budget is resolved, and continues to look for ways to reduce
costs. Mr. Kurtz highlighted the importance of diligently managing the funding sources
during a budget impasse so as to not supplant funds. He also emphasized the impact the
increased VOCA funds will have on the Authority, especially in regard to long term
financial forecasting.
Committee Reports
Chair Robb asked Ms. Hora for Budget Committee updates. Ms. Hora stated that the
committee last met on January 19th. The Budget Committee approved several budget
reductions and also approved new grants. In summary, those new grants were made to the
Illinois Department of Corrections using JAG funds, and the Illinois Attorney General’s
Office, Illinois Coalition Against Domestic Violence, and Illinois Coalition Against Sexual
Assault for training new advocates. In addition, five multidisciplinary team awards were
approved, as well as the awards under the VAWA Discretionary Fund. Ms. Hora asked if
the Victim Needs Assessment RFP will come to the Budget Committee for approval. Mr.
Maki said administration funds will be used and will not require Budget Committee
approval.
Chair Robb then asked Ms. Wolff if there were any Strategic Opportunities Committee
updates. Ms. Wolff said the committee last met on February 24th. She summarized the

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 4

 committee is designed to establish a framework and process for the Authority’s grant
making. The committee has developed normative principles as well as principles for the
grant making process. She said the normative principles will be brought to the next
Authority meeting and that the grantmaking principles were approved at a previous
Authority meeting. The Committee most recently focused on the JAG goals, which
committee members took to their constituency groups for feedback. Ms. Wolff thanked
members for obtaining that feedback as it was incorporated at the last meeting. She
appreciated the member participation and reiterated that everyone is welcome at the
meeting.
Research and Practice Presentation & Panel Discussion
Director Maki introduced Dr. Laura Kunard, criminologist at CNA, a non-profit research
and analysis agency. She is working with the U.S. Department of Justice on police
reform. Dr. Kunard’s presentation, “Fairness, Voice, Transparency, and Impartiality:
How the Principles of Procedural Justice Can Strengthen Legitimacy in the Criminal
Justice System and Improve Public Safety Outcomes,” focused on public perception of
government. She defined legal cynicism, legitimacy, and procedural justice and presented
research, national trends, and reforms taking place at the national and state levels
(Attachment B).
After her presentation, she was joined by four additional criminal justice reform
advocates. These guests included Reverend K. Edward Copeland, senior pastor, New
Zion Baptist Church; Justice Shelvin Louise Marie Hall, appellate judge of Illinois’ First
District, 6th Division; Father Dave Kelly, executive director, Precious Blood Ministry of
Reconciliation, and Chief Rick Tanksley, Oak Park Police Department. The panel
discussion addressed the criminal justice system’s task of building community trust.
Several panelists emphasized how much of this will come to fruition as positive
interactions and relationships are developed between local law enforcement and
community members. Productive relationships also extend across criminal justice
agencies to improve collaboration. The panelists discussed disproportionate minority
contact, police training and department management, implicit and unconscious bias, and
developing positive relationships with at-risk youth and community members. Director
Maki and Chair Robb thanked the panelists.
Public Comment
Chair Robb then offered the public an opportunity to address the Board. She reminded all
members of the public who wish to speak that comments must be limited to three minutes,
according to the rules of the Authority, and also that any comments must be germane to
the topic of the meeting.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 5

 The first person to address the Board was Judge Shelia Murphy. She wanted to follow up
on a point that was made regarding offenders with addiction issues. She said judges outside
of the drug treatment court context are making decisions without knowledge of addiction
and mental health issues. Medical input must become part of every court, she said.
The second person to address the Board was Joyce Coffee, executive director of Family
Rescue. She said her organization is a member of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered
Women’s Network. Ms. Coffee thanked the Authority for its support of the domestic
violence community over the years. She expressed that domestic violence agencies cannot
wait another year for VOCA funding. She described years of fiscal distress that has had a
negative impact on providers and their ability to serve victims of domestic violence. She
stated that she understands the strategic planning process the Authority plans to embark
upon, however, she requested the Authority augment that process by utilizing the vast
amount of information domestic violence agencies can provide.
The third person to address the Board was Karina Agala-Berjejo, executive director of the
Legal Aid Society of Metropolitan Family Services and general counsel for Metropolitan
Family Services. Her agency is a member of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s
Network. She said a victim assistance survey was conducted statewide and addresses all
crimes. She concluded by saying that she and other domestic violence advocates can
provide subject matter expertise so that the Authority can save money and time in the
planning process.
The fourth person to address the Board was Denice Wolf Markham, executive director of
Lifespan, which is a member of the Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network.
She said her agency provides counseling, advocacy, and legal services to about 4,000
victims of domestic and sexual violence and their children in Cook County every year. She
commended the Authority for the deliberate and thoughtful VOCA planning process. She
echoed previous comments regarding providers’ fiscal crisis and increased needs of victims
and stated that her understanding of the federal government goal in increasing the VOCA
funds is to increase capacity of existing services.
The fifth person to address the Board was Hedal Shalabi, co-founder and executive director
of Arab American Family Services, which is a member of the Chicago Metropolitan
Battered Women’s Network. Ms. Shalabi expressed that her agency has been waiting for
almost 15 years to be able to apply for VOCA funds and that victims of domestic violence
cannot wait for increased funding. She requested that the Authority release $16 to $20
million and said data on domestic violence services is available.
The sixth person to address the Board was Michelle Valiukenas, supervisor of the Domestic
Violence Court for Metropolitan Family Services, which is a member of the Chicago
Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network. Ms. Valiukenas expressed that domestic

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 6

 violence crosses many boundaries and other crimes. She referenced an editorial, written by
President Preckwinkle, and agreed with the president that society shouldn’t just wait to
intervene after violence. Ms. Valiukenas stated that childhood exposure to domestic
violence leads to future violence. She also referenced a quote by panelist Father Kelly that
domestic violence is at the root of much of the violence seen in the streets.
The last person to address the Board was Kathleen Doherty, executive director of the
Chicago Metropolitan Battered Women’s Network. She said the organization has been
around since the 1980s, includes 45 member agencies, operates the Statewide Domestic
Violence Hotline, does legislative and strategic advocacy, and includes a Centralized
Training Institute. Over 24,000 calls come in on average of which about 20% of requested
services are not met. She said her agency has been involved in many evaluation projects
and can share this information with the Authority. She echoed previous statements that
waiting for the VOCA funds to be distributed is very disappointing given that they know
what needs to be addressed. She respects the Authority’s planning process but requests that
additional funds be distributed now.
Adjourn
Chair Robb asked if there were any other members of the public who wished to make a
comment. Seeing none, she asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Hora moved to
adjourn the meeting and the motion was seconded by Ms. Vollen-Katz. The meeting was
adjourned at 11:30 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Regular Board Meeting
March 11, 2016
Page 7

 To:

ICJIA Board Members

From:

Judge Elizabeth Robb, Chair, and John Maki, Executive Director, ICJIA

Date:

May 23, 2016

Re:

Overview of the Authority’s June 3rd Board Meeting

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority’s (“Authority”) June 3, 2016 Board meeting
will be held Friday, June 3rd from 9:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at the Michael A. Bilandic Building, 160 N.
LaSalle, N-505). To enter the Bilandic Building, visitors must present a valid State I.D. and pass through
a metal detector. All Authority board meetings are subject to the Open Meetings Act. Members of the
general public are encouraged to attend.
The Authority’s statutorily created oversight Board serves a unique and vital role in improving
the State’s public safety outcomes. Composed of state and local public safety officials, policy experts,
and community leaders, the Board is designed to embody and represent the State’s criminal justice
system and is tasked with setting agency priorities, tracking the progress of ongoing programs, and
overseeing the agency’s grant-making. To that end, the Authority’s quarterly Board meetings bring
research and practical insights to bear on important and emerging issues affecting public safety in Illinois
with the goal of discussing and identifying how the agency should address them through its research and
grant-making.
The June 3rd Board meeting will provide members with essential updates on the Authority’s
ongoing work by its staff and committees. Along with the Authority’s ordinary business, the following
two items will be presented for discussion:

•

Performance Audit:
!

In April, the Auditor General Audit released a report on the Authority’s administration
of Community Based Violence Prevention Programs, the Afterschool Program, and the
Chicago Area Project in calendar years 2013-14.

!

The Authority has accepted the findings from this audit and is committed to correcting
all of the issues it identified.

2

 !

To ensure that the Authority’s Board is not only informed, but also has the opportunity
to help drive this work, Chair Robb has appointed Cook County Public Defender Amy
Campanelli (Chair), Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy, DeKalb County Clerk
Maureen Josh, and Jennifer Vollen-Katz to an Ad Hoc Audit Committee to help
oversee this work.

•

Strategic Opportunities Committee:
!

In March, the Strategic Opportunities Committee (SOC) approved the Authority’s
Strategic Plan for its Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) for FFY16-19 (attached).
The plan will be presented on June 3rd for the Board’s approval.

!

This plan was the result of eight months of committee work, which included targeted
outreach and input from stakeholders and significant discussion and revisions. Staff
and board who worked on the Plan will be ready to address any questions members
have about the Plan.

!

The plan includes Guiding Principles for the Authority’s overall work, which the Board
discussed at its December 2015 quarterly meeting; goals for JAG’s seven priority areas;
and related goals JAG objectives for both staff and the SOC.

After the Board addresses these items, there will be a Research and Practice Presentation on
Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils (CJCCs). CJJCCs are local strategic planning bodies that bring
together representatives from justice system agencies, other governmental bodies, service providers, and
the community to use research and analysis to create plans to help local jurisdictions address their
particular crime problems. In its 2015 report, the Illinois State Criminal Justice and Sentencing Reform
Commission recommended that the Authority implement its recommendation to “provide incentives and
support for the establishment of local Criminal Justice Coordinating Councils to develop strategic plans
to address crime and corrections policy.” The June Research and Practice Presentation will feature an
overview of CJJCCs by David Olson, Professor in Criminal Justice and Criminology and the CoDirector of the Center for Criminal Justice Research, Policy and Practice at Loyola University Chicago.
Following Professor Olson’s overview, a panel of local officials will discuss their experiences using
CJCCs and lessons the Authority should consider as it seeks to expand these planning bodies throughout
the state.

3

    
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Strategic Plan:
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant for Federal Fiscal Years 20162019 (DRAFT)
In calendar year 2015, the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority (Authority)
began developing a three-year strategic plan for its research and grantmaking, starting
with the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (Byrne JAG). When
complete, this work will integrate all of the Authority’s core research, policy, and
grantmaking activities under a single strategic plan that will be built out and implemented
in Federal Fiscal Years (FFY) 2016-2019.
This text lays the foundation of the Authority’s strategic plan and how it will inform the
agency’s Byrne JAG activities. It pertains at this juncture only to the Byrne JAG
programs, but ultimately will incorporate priorities and process design for all strategic
plans for the Authority’s grants. Sections include:
I. Strategic Plan. The Strategic Plan describes the overall vision for the Authority’s
strategic planning process;
II. Principles. The Principles section identifies the foundational purposes that the
Authority’s Research and Grants should serve;
III. Priorities. The Priorities section currently outlines the goals for Illinois’ Byrne JAG
programs for FFY 2016-2019;
IV. Process. The Process section currently identifies the Authority’s Byrne JAG
objectives for FFY 2016-2019.
About the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
The Authority is Illinois’ criminal justice research and grant-making agency. Its mission
is to reduce crime and violence and increase public safety by improving criminal justice
outcomes and helping create a more effective criminal justice system through research,
funding, and technical assistance and by coordinating the development of information
systems.
To realize this mission, the Authority has two principal divisions: the Research &
Analysis Unit (Research) and the Federal & State Grants Unit (Grants). While all 50
states and U.S. territories have the equivalents of these units, the Authority has earned
throughout its more than 30-year history a distinct national reputation for using research
to inform funding and programs that strengthen criminal justice policies and practices.
The Authority is governed by a statutorily created 25-member independent oversight
Board composed of state and local public safety officials, community leaders, and policy
experts. With members representing the diverse parts of the state’s criminal justice
system, the Authority’s Board sets agency priorities, tracks the progress of ongoing
programs, and oversees the agency’s grant-making.

   

1   

    
In calendar year 2015, the Authority administered roughly $50 million of state and
federal programs. Two thirds of the Authority’s funding for programs came from the
three major federal formula block grants: JAG, Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)
fund, and Victims of Crime Act fund (VOCA). Overall, the Authority provides a high
return on investment for the State. For every dollar Illinois spends on the Authority's
operations, the agency is able to administer $10 in programs. As a matter of policy, the
Authority’s funding is targeted at areas reporting high crime and victimization and
distributed evenly through the State’s Northern, Central, and Southern regions.
I. STRATEGIC PLAN
In the summer of 2015, the
Authority’s Board Chair
created the Strategic
Opportunities Committee
(“Committee”) from the
agency’s Board and gave it
the following charge:

Authority-­‐Administered   Federal   Public   Safety   and   
Victim   Service   Formula   Block   Grants   
   
The   Edward   Byrne   Memorial   Justice   Assistance   
Grant   Program   (JAG)   is   the   primary   provider   of   
federal   criminal   justice   funding   to   state   and   local   
jurisdictions.   The   JAG   Program   provides   states   and   
units   of   local   governments   with   critical   funding   
necessary   to   support   a   range   of   program   areas.      
   
The   Violence   Against   Women   Act   (VAWA)   promotes   
a   coordinated,   multidisciplinary   approach   to   
improving   the   effective   criminal   justice   system's   
response   to   violent   crimes   against   women   and   to   the   
improvement   of   advocacy   and   services   in   cases   
involving   violent   crimes   against   women.   
   
The   Victims   of   Crime   Act   Crime   Victims   Assistance   
(VOCA)   fund   supports   direct   services   to   victims   of   
crime.   These   services   respond   to   crime   victims’   
emotional   and   physical   needs   while   assisting   victims   in   
understanding   and   participating   in   the   criminal   justice   
system.   
   

The Strategic Opportunities
Committee works with the
Authority’s Board to define
• The Principles that
will provide
strategic vision and
governance to
direct the agency’s
grant work;
• The Priorities that
focus the agency’s
grant work to
implement the
principles;
• The Process that the agency will use in its grant work to maximize the
effectiveness of the state’s justice system.

The Committee works closely with the Authority’s Grants and Research units to achieve
the following objectives:
•

   

Create a three-year strategic plan for the Authority’s grant work;
• Coordinate the mandated planning for the Authority’s federal block grants
and state grant advisory groups;
• Encourage and coordinate federal and private grant work in addition to its
federal block grants to drive targeted improvements to Illinois justice system
that are informed by the Authority’s principles and priorities.

2   

    
•

Partner with other state agencies and engage in state level initiatives to align
interests.

To create a three-year strategic plan for the Authority, the Committee initiated a rolling
planning process for federal fiscal years 2016-2019. Eventually, all of the Authority’s
major federal public safety and victim service formula block grants will be encompassed
in an overall plan, centered in a set of foundational principles and priorities, and anchored
in a dynamic process involving the Board and its oversight committees, agency staff, and
the agency grantees.
II. PRINCIPLES
To ground this strategic planning process, the Committee established two sets of
foundational principles for the Authority. The first set of principles is designed to direct
the Authority’s overall work, articulating a vision for the Illinois’ criminal justice system
and the purposes it should serve:
Guiding Principles
1. Legitimacy: Criminal justice practices and policy should provide an equitable justice
system for all Illinois residents by strengthening the trust between the public and the
justice system and promoting the fair distribution of rights, resources and
opportunities.
2. Fair and Just: Criminal justice laws, policies, and practices should be fairly and
effectively enforced, ensuring that punishment is proportional to the seriousness of
the offense committed, designed to achieve offender accountability, victim restoration
and public safety, and limited to the amount necessary to achieve the intended
outcomes.
3. Respect: Criminal justice practices and policy should ensure that victims are treated
with respect in regard to their dignity and privacy, and that their rights are enforced.
4. Due Process: Criminal justice practices and policy should ensure that all individuals
are afforded equal access to fair treatment under the law.
5. Recovery: Support and services should be provided to victims who suffer physical,
emotional or financial harm as the direct result of the offender’s criminal conduct.
These services should be provided whether or not the victims choose to participate in
the criminal justice system.
6. Rehabilitation: The criminal justice system should require and support offender
rehabilitation services to offenders who want them. These services should be
provided in a culturally competent, gender sensitive, and trauma informed manner.
7. Strengthen Communities: The criminal justice system should strengthen communities
and their capacities to prevent crime and violence.
8. Prevention: The criminal justice system should prevent crime and violence to mitigate
its harmful effects on individuals and communities.

   

3   

    
9. Research Informed: Criminal justice policies and practices should be informed by
statistics, research, and community input. Criminal justice data, statistical analyses,
and research should be accessible to all communities.
10. Collaboration: The sectors of criminal justice system and victim service providers
should collaborate to provide efficient, effective, and expedient justice. This
collaboration should foster cross-system coordination and appropriate information
sharing.
11. Efficient: The criminal justice system should avoid unnecessary costs and maximize
its limited resources to achieve its intended outcomes.
While the above Guiding Principles outline a broad vision for the State’s criminal justice
system, the Grantmaking Principles below articulate how the Authority will achieve it:

Grantmaking Principles
1. The Authority should strive to maximize the use of available federal and state funds,
seeking any and all reasonable alternatives to lapsing funds back to the federal or
state government.
2. The Authority's decision to award federal and state funds should have a foundation in
the best available research, evaluation, practice and professional advice.
3. The Authority's decision to award federal and state funds should take into account
the balance of resources across the justice system and its potential impact in other
areas of the system.
4. The Authority's federal and state funds should not result in the duplication of efforts
already in place.
5. The Authority's federal and state funds cannot be used to supplant other funds.
6. The Authority's federal and state funds should be allocated (a) to areas
demonstrating need based on an analysis of the nature and extent of the problem(s)
and (b) to programs in areas where there is an opportunity to impact the identified
problem(s).
In addition, to the extent permitted by program guidelines, some portion of available
federal and state funds should be used for the following:
1. To encourage collaborative approaches to problem solving, planning and
program implementation.
2. To encourage innovative pilot or demonstration projects.
3. To evaluate funded projects and support an ongoing program of research
designed to further planning and program development.
4. To build the capacity of those in the criminal justice system.

   

4   

    
Together, these Guiding and Grantmaking Principles provide the Authority’s staff and
Board with the core purposes and operational imperatives inform and direct the agency’s
core work.
III. PRIORITIES
To begin defining the ways in which the Authority will allocate resources and set its
research priorities, the Committee focused on Byrne JAG. By design, Byrne JAG is
fundamentally different from the other federal formula grants administered by the
Authority. As the National Criminal Justice Association describes, Byrne JAG “is the
cornerstone of the federal justice assistance program,” particularly structured “to test
innovative approaches to emerging problems” and build capacity for jurisdictions to
replicate effective programs.1 While federal formula block grants like Victim of Crime
Act (VOCA) and Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) have discrete mandated areas
of funding, Byrne JAG’s “strength is in its flexibility,” offering seven possible program
areas to which state administering agencies must direct funding.2 They include:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Law enforcement
Prosecution, courts, and indigent defense
Crime prevention and education
Corrections and community corrections
Drug treatment and enforcement
Planning, evaluation, and technology improvement
Crime victim and witness (other than compensation).

As these program areas effectively encompass all aspects of the state and local criminal
justice system, they also touch upon all of the areas in which the Authority operates, from
developing information systems to supporting victim services. As such, Byrne JAG
presents the Authority with the opportunity not only to plan for how it should direct
Byrne JAG funds to support the State’s current justice system, but also to help the
Authority to start thinking about and creating objectives for Research, Grants, and the
Board that would help the agency realize its Guiding and Grantmaking Principles. In this
sense, this plan is designed not to begin and end with Byrne JAG activities, but rather to
lead into, inform, and unify the agency’s other planning activities under a shared strategic
vision. And so when the Authority plans for VOCA and VAWA activities—and thus
thinks more deeply about how the agency should use Research and Grants to improve
outcomes for victims of crime, sexual assault, and domestic violence—it will do so in
coordination with the activities and lessons learned from its Byrne JAG planning and
funding.
PROCESS: BYRNE JAG GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
                                                                                                                                                                        
1

National Criminal Justice Association, “Cornerstone for Justice: Byrne JAG and its Impact on the
Criminal Justice System,” 2011, pg 2, last accessed on February 2, 2016 at
https://www.bja.gov/Publications/NCJA_JAGReport.pdf
2
“Cornerstone for Justice,” pg 2.

   

5   

    
Consistent with the Authority’s Guiding and Grantmaking Principles, the Authority’s
Byrne JAG activities should be structured to accomplish the following overall goal:
The Authority should use research to inform grantmaking which supports programs that:
1. “Test innovative approaches to emerging problems” and build capacity for
jurisdictions to adopt effective ways in which to control crime and strengthen
public safety.3
2. Provide a critical statewide public safety benefit.
In collaboration with agency staff and the stakeholders the Authority serve, the
Committee defined by consensus particular goals that Byrne JAG programs should
accomplish under the fund’s seven program areas to ensure that the Authority’s funding
is not driven merely by inputs and outputs, but rather by outcomes and measurable
objectives.
Preamble:
The Byrne JAG Goals outlined below were developed by Authority Board members and
staff to bring future Byrne JAG funding in line with best practices in criminal justice.
These goals will begin to be used to allocate resources starting in federal fiscal year 2016.
While each JAG purpose area below addresses the unique needs of that sector,
collectively, the goals are intended to increase public safety; sustain and strengthen the
trust between the public and the justice system; fairly and effectively enforce the law;
respect the constitutional rights of everyone; use the resources of the justice system to
reduce risk to the community, and utilize evidence based and informed practices. Any
implementation of these goals will take into account a proportional distribution of funds
to all parts of the criminal justice system and respect the geographical needs across
Illinois.

Law Enforcement
Goal: To support law enforcement by providing them with the resources necessary to
protect and serve the community through the development and implementation of datadriven, promising, or research-informed policing strategies that protect public safety and
reduce crime, particularly violent crime.
Prosecution, Court Programs, and Indigent Defense
Prosecution Goal: To support all public prosecutors, including appellate prosecutors, by
providing the resources and training necessary to assist them in protecting public safety
by holding offenders accountable while ensuring the constitutional rights of the accused
and enforcing crime victims’ constitutional and statutory rights.
                                                                                                                                                                        
3
“Cornerstone for Justice,” 2011, pg 2.
   

6   

    
Court Programs Goal: To support problem solving, specialty and other courts by
providing resources for court programs that provide offender rehabilitation without
endangering public safety and afford crime victims’ their constitutional and statutory
rights.
Indigent Defense Goal: To support public and appellate defenders by providing resources
and training necessary to assist public and appellate defenders in protecting the
fundamental rights, liberties and due process of the accused and to assist public and
appellate defenders in connecting defendants with community based services when
possible and appropriate in order to reduce recidivism.
Prevention and Education
Goal: To provide resources for research-informed and promising strategies and
programming that reduce crime and violence, mitigate its harmful effects and encourage
the participation of crime victims and witnesses in the criminal justice system and in
doing so strengthening communities’ capacities to learn about and to prevent crime and
violence and to hold offenders accountable.
Corrections and Community Corrections
Goal: To provide resources both to enhance the safety of correctional facilities, victims
and the public by supporting research informed or promising behavioral change
programming informed by proven risk assessment and also to service offenders with
mental illness, developmental disabilities and substance use disorders in order to reduce
reoffending, with an emphasis on programming that allows offenders to safely remain in
their communities and to pay restitution to victims of their crimes.
Drug Enforcement and Treatment Programs
Goal: To support research-informed and promising drug enforcement and treatment
efforts by providing resources to programs that break the cycle of system involvement in
the criminal justice system for people who abuse legal and illegal drugs and substances,
that ensure the safety of the crime victim and the public, and that promote the payment of
restitution to crime victims and to support evidence based programs that enhance public
safety and reduce the amount of drugs and substances illegally manufactured and
distributed.
Crime Victim and Witness programs (other than compensation)
Goal: To support crime victim and witness programs by providing resources for services
that meet the financial, physical and emotional needs of crime victims and witnesses
regardless of whether charges are filed, that acknowledge the importance of crime victim
and witness participation in the criminal justice system, and that promote, respect and
enforce the constitutional and statutory rights of crime victims.
Planning, Evaluation, and Technology Improvement

   

7   

    
Goal: To support planning, research and evaluation by providing resources for projects
that examine key criminal justice topics and programs and identify research-informed and
promising practices for the purposes of informing key stakeholders. To support the
development of a statewide information sharing environment, through the use of Global
standards, that facilities timely, accurate, and efficient exchange of operational data for
criminal justice stakeholders.
IV. PROCESS FOR BYRNE JAG GRANTMAKING, FFY 2016-18
To create a process that will enable the Board to assess whether the Authority achieves
the goals it sets under Byrne JAG, the Committee first reviewed the recent history of the
agency’s Byrne JAG funding administration and overall federal and state grantmaking.
(For an overview of the Authority’s recent grantmaking, see Appendix 1.) While the
recent history of the Authority’s funding makes it clear that Byrne JAG has been used to
support important programs throughout the state, the Committee’s analysis pointed to
four areas in need of improvement.
1. In recent years, while the Authority has used researched-informed requests for
proposals (RFPs) for VAWA, VOCA, and other federal programs, the agency has
not made sufficient use of research-informed RFPs for Byrne JAG funding.
Research-informed RFPs are the most effective way for the Authority to ensure an
open, transparent, and competitive process to award grants that will achieve
measurable goals and objectives.
2. While required matches help encourage grantees to build their internal capacity
by investing their own resources in grant programs, the Authority has no clear
policy on grantee matches for its Byrne JAG initiatives. Without a policy, match
requirements have been has inconsistent, creating a missed opportunity for the
Authority to help its grantees build a sustainable internal capacity to administer
their federally funded programs, particularly as federal funding has significantly
decreased in recent years.
3. Too few of the Authority’s past Byrne JAG grants are designed, supported, or
evaluated by research. The best way to ensure that grant programs promote
particular public safety outcomes is to require evidence-based programming and
clearly defined and measureable goals and objectives that can be assessed through
evaluation.
4. Although Byrne JAG is ideally suited to “spur innovation,” most of Illinois’
Byrne JAG programs are based in legacy with insufficient evidence about their
effectiveness and no established policy for lengths of funding. As Byrne JAG
funds have decreased significantly in recent years, these practices inhibit the
Authority from demonstrating what is effective in reducing crime and violence
and from supporting new programs to test different strategies to increase public
safety.
To address these areas of needed improvement and to ensure that Research and Grants
realize their overall goals, the Authority identified objectives below for Illinois’ Byrne

   

8   

    
JAG for FFY 2016-2019. The Authority will publish these objectives and document the
work it has done to realize them on a quarterly basis on its website.
Year 1 (By October 2016):
Authority Staff Objectives
1. The Authority will assess all Byrne JAG grantees based on the Authority’s Guiding
and Grantmaking Principles and JAG Program Goals. Assessed will be:
a. Number of grantee self-assessments completed and submitted.
b. Number of self-assessments analyzed to determine whether the programs
currently being supported reflect the Authority’s principles and achieves the
particular program goal under which they are funded.
c. Percentage of grantees reviewed whose self-assessments appear to indicate
they are achieving the particular program goals under which they are funded.
d. Number of grantees whose current performance metrics were examined.
e. Number of grantees whose performance measures were modified to better
assess program outcomes.
f. Percentage of grantees whose performance measures were modified.
2. The Authority will increase its use of research-informed RFP-based funding for
Byrne JAG by issuing one competitive RFP to support implementation of strategies
proven to reduce violence. Assessed will be:
a. Number of competitive RFPs issued under JAG
3. The Authority will develop research and evaluation summaries for one-quarter of the
JAG programs currently funded. Assessed will be:
a. Number of JAG programs in which research and evaluation summaries were
developed.
b. Percentage of JAG programs with summaries developed.
4. The Authority will develop research and evaluation summaries for five additional
areas of interest to inform state public safety policy and practice in concert with the
Grants unit and Committee members. Assessed will be:
a. Number of summaries completed.
Committee Action Steps
1. As the Authority increases its use of research-informed RFP-based funding, the
Committee will develop particular goals and objectives for the Authority’s use of
research-informed RFPs for all of its federal block grants, informed by the 2014
Illinois Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA).
2. The Committee will create criteria for how the Authority will define and assess
Byrne JAG programs that deliver a statewide benefit.
3. The Committee will explore whether it should establish percentages of Byrne
JAG funding that should be set aside for particular program areas.
4. The Committee will take all final policies to Authority Board for approval.
Year 2 (By October 2017):

   

9   

    
Authority Staff Objectives
1. The Authority will work with all grantees to review and revise performance
metrics designed to realize program goals. Assessed will be:
a. Number of grantees whose performance metrics were examined.
b. Number of grantees whose performance measures were modified to better
assess program outcomes.
c. Percentage of grantees whose performance measures were modified.
2. The Authority will develop research and evaluation summaries for the remaining
three-quarters of the funded JAG programs. Assessed will be:
a. Number of JAG programs in which research and evaluation summaries
were developed.
b. Percentage of JAG programs with summaries developed.
3. The Authority will develop research and evaluation summaries for additional
other select areas of interest to inform state public safety policy and practice in
concert with the Grants Unit and Committee members (number of additional
summaries to be determined). Assessed will be:
a. Number of summaries completed.
b. 100% of new grants informed by knowledge base
c. Construction of online public database of research-informed criminal
justice programming.
Committee Action Steps
1. The Committee will establish goals and measurable objectives for the Authority’s
use of research-informed RFPs for its federal block grants.
2. The Committee will establish a policy for matching funds.
3. The Committee will establish criteria for programs that deliver statewide benefit,
along with the amount or proportion of Byrne JAG funds that will be dedicated to
such programs.
4. The Committee will establish whether the Authority should set specific amounts,
proportions, or range of Byrne JAG funds that will be used to test innovative
approaches to emerging problems and build capacity for jurisdictions to adopt
effective ways in which to control crime and strengthen public safety.
5. The Committee will establish whether the Authority should set specific amounts,
proportions, or range of possible funding for each Byrne JAG program area.
6. The Committee will explore whether the Authority needs a policy for determining
length of funding for Byrne JAG programs.
7. The Committee will take all final policies to Authority Board for approval.
Year 3 (By October 2018): Full Implementation
Authority Staff Objectives
1. The Authority will analyze data from all programs; assess their effectiveness
based on program objectives, and report to the Committee on an annual basis.
Assessed will be:

   

10   

    
a. Number of program reviews conducted.
b. Percentage of programs funded that were reviewed.
2. Byrne JAG Funding decisions will be made on the basis of programs’
effectiveness of achieving Byrne JAG’s programmatic goals. Assessed will be:
a. Number of funding decisions made on the basis of program effectiveness.
b. Percentage of all funding decisions in which funding was made on the
basis of program effectiveness.
3. Funding decisions will reflect the Committee’s match policies. Assessed will be:
a. Number of programs that meet the Committee’s match policies.
b. Percentage of programs funded that meet the Committee’s match policies.
4. Funding decisions will reflect the Committee’s length of funding policies.
Assessed will be:
a. Number of programs that meet the Committee’s funding length policies.
b. Percentage of programs funded that meet the Committee’s funding length
policies.
5. Funding decision will reflect the Committee’s criteria for programs that deliver a
statewide benefit and designed to test innovation. Assessed will be:
a. Number of programs that meet the Committee’s criteria.
b. Percentage of programs funded that meet the Committee’s criteria.
Committee Action Steps
1. The Committee will assess the Authority’s effectiveness at realizing the overall
goal for Byrne JAG based on how successful they have been at realizing these
objectives.
2. The Committee will begin to prepare for the next three-year strategic plan.

   

11   

 