ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES

ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
September 28, 2017, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 10:08 a.m. General
Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Jim O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
Schmitz
Paula Wolff

Present Telephone
X

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

Other Authority Member Attendance
Present Telephone
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes*
X
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy
Peoria Police Chief Jerry Mitchell
State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
X
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director Beverly Walker
Jennifer Vollen-Katz*
X

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

Chair Robb appointed Ms. Barnes and Ms. Vollen-Katz to the Budget Committee for the
duration of the meeting.
ICJIA Program Specialist Maureen Brennan
ICJIA Strategic Policy Advisor Reshma Desai
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
Rick Krause, representing the Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Program Supervisor Mary Ratliff (via teleconference)
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis
Other Authority staff members and guests

Opening Remarks
Associate Director Givens said that an emergency Budget Committee meeting would be
held in conjunction with the Strategic Opportunities Committee meeting scheduled for
October 25, 2017. The purpose of that meeting will be to address designation
recommendations resulting from recent Notices of Funding Opportunity (NOFOs) that
could not be processed in time to be placed on the agenda for today’s meeting. An agenda
and materials will be forthcoming.

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

1. Minutes of the July 27, 2017, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes of the July 27, 2017, Budget
Committee Meeting. This motion included a request to change the word “dismissed,” as
used in the last sentence of the fourth paragraph on Page 8 of the minutes to
“disregarded,” so that the corrected sentence reads (correction in italics):
“…the recommended designation to the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice for its
Youth Offender Re-Entry Program in the amount of $91,800 should be disregarded.”
Ms. Kramer requested that a correction be made on Page 7 of the minutes in the first
sentence of the first paragraph. The correction should read (correction in italics):
“Executive Director Maki said these JAG designation recommendations were the first
resulting from the GATA-compliant competitive process.”
Ms. Hora requested that a correction be made on Page 4 of the minutes in the second
sentence of the last paragraph. The correction should read (correction in italics):
“Staff recommended that approximately $6,700,000 to $7,200,000 be made
available…”
Ms. Hora requested that two corrections be made on Page 5 of the minutes in the second
full sentence of the first paragraph. The correction should read (correction in italics):
“He said the funding opportunity would be be open to public and not-for-profit
entities…”
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous voice vote.
2. Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Councils
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated September 28, 2017,
regarding State Fiscal Year 2018 Funding for the Illinois Family Violence Coordinating
Councils (IFVCC). He said that there are 14 local family violence coordinating councils
that offer local forums to share and discuss information promoting a coordinated response
to family violence in communities. Each council is judicially led by the chief judge or a
judge appointed by the chief judge. A separate fiscal agent administers the annual
allocation of funds. Funds are used to support a part-time local council coordinator for
each council and coordination of committee work, training, travel, and other related
activities as determined by the Local Council Planning/Steering Committees.
Planning/Steering Committees and local council coordinators establish the goals and
objectives for the upcoming year. All local council activities are approved by the Illinois
Family Violence Coordinating Council. Staff recommends that $439,000 in SFY18

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council general revenue funds be designated to
the entities described in the table on Page 2 of the memo.
Ms. Vollen-Katz said that it is important that the entire criminal justice system be
represented in these coordinating councils. Public defenders and others who represent the
interests of the accused should be included in order to achieve a full view of the justice
system. She noted that the list of Implementing Agencies and Fiscal Agents in the table
on Page 2 of the memo did not specify all individual council partners.
Ms. Ratliff said that most councils include all of these elements; law enforcement,
prosecution, defense, victim advocates, etc.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended SFY18 IFVCC designations.
Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. Ms.
Vollen-Katz said that she voted yes with the caveat the she would not do so again without
first knowing who all of the stakeholders are for each designation.
3. Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated September 28, 2017,
regarding the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (SORNA). He said that the
Department of Justice’s Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending,
Registering, and Tracking (SMART Office) provided a report to Illinois outlining areas
in which Illinois was not in compliance with SORNA. One of the principal areas in need
of improvement was Illinois State Police’s (ISP) lack of an electronic records
management system for electronic collection, exchange and posting of registrant
information. Since that time, SORNA funds have been used by ISP to obtain an
electronic records management system and scan the backlog of paper records submitted
to the ISP Sex Offender Registration and Notification Unit. In August 2016, ICJIA
designated the entire FFY16 SORNA award of $259,576 to ISP for staff overtime to scan
the remaining backlog of paper records. While the project was successful in eliminating
the backlog, at the end of the period of performance, $214,904 of the funds remained
unspent. ICJIA has received the FFY17 SORNA award in the amount of $248,403. Staff
requests permission to issue one Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) using both
FFY16 and FFY17 funds for awards to law enforcement agencies for the procurement of
equipment to facilitate the electronic submission of sex offender documents to ISP.
Equipment would include scanners, computers, servers and related peripherals. The
timeline for this NOFO is described in the table on Page 2 of the memo.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended use of FFY16 and FFY17
SORNA funds to support the NOFO described above. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion.
Ms. Vollen-Katz said that it appeared that SORNA funds have very limited uses and that
they are primarily for supporting compliance with federal law. She said that she did not
think that the Authority Board had a thorough understanding of the limitations of
SORNA funding.

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

Ms. Hora expressed concern that SORNA funds might be used by the grantees for
purposes unrelated to SORNA. She said that she wanted to see more information on
SORNA funding and its possible uses by grantees before voting on the recommendation.
General Counsel Weis said that perhaps staff could provide an overview of SORNA to
the Authority Board at an Authority Regular Meeting. She said that discussions regarding
funding strategies are perhaps better suited to forums such as the Strategic Opportunities
Committee or the Authority Regular Meetings.
Ms. Hora said that she was not comfortable issuing the NOFO for the use of FFY16 and
FFY17 funds simultaneously. She noted that the last SORNA designation to the ISP was
for $259,576 and $214,904 went unspent. She suggested splitting the NOFO; one for
FFY16 funds and then a subsequent one for FFY17 funds, as doing so might allow for
tighter control of the use of the funds and ensure that they are used for SORNA-related
purposes. At the least, the NOFO needs to be specific about allowable uses of SORNA
funds.
Authority Chair Robb said that discussions about strategic uses of fund should happen at
the board level, not the Budget Committee level. Staff should be trusted regarding the
allowability of their funding recommendations.
Ms. Brennan said that the NOFO would be publicized via the Illinois Sheriff’s
Association, the Illinois Association of Chiefs of Police, existing grantees, and traditional
information outlets.
Ms. Hora offered a friendly amendment to the motion: The motion to approve the
recommended use of FFY16 and FFY17 SORNA funds to support the NOFO should
come with the caveat that the Strategic Opportunities Committee will review and evaluate
the SORNA fund spending plan.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote with a recusal by Mr. O’Grady.
4. Violence Against Women Act - Arrest Grants to Encourage Arrest and
Enforcement of Protection Orders Program
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated September 28, 2017,
regarding the State Fiscal Year 2018 Funding Adjustments for Violence Against Women
Act Arrest Grants to Encourage Arrest and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program
(VAWA A) for the Illinois Family Violence Coordinating Council (IFVCC). He said that
in 2014, the IFVCC under the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority was
awarded renewal funding of $900,000 from the U.S. Department of Justice Office (DOJ)
for the VAWA A Program. The grant period was originally from October 2014 through
September 30, 2017, but the period was extended by the DOJ to September 30, 2018.
Macon Resources was designated $25,075 in SFY15 VAWA A funds and $24,981 in
SFY16 VAWA A funds for their IFVCC program. Blue Tower Solutions was designated

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

$17,000 in SFY17 VAWA A funds and took over the implementing agency and fiscal
agent roles for the program on April 1, 2017. Staff now recommends designating an
additional $35,000 to Blue Tower Solutions to allow the program to continue through
September 30, 2018.
Ms. Ratliff said that while this program does not address defense, victim services, or
prosecution directly, it does support experts and advocates.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended use of FFY14 VAWA A funds
to support the Blue Tower Solutions designation increase described above. Ms. Barnes
seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
5. Victims of Crime Act
Designation Reductions
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated September 28, 2017,
regarding the FFY15 and FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Plan Adjustments. He
called attention to the chart on Pages 1 and 2 of the memo describing funds recently
returned to the ICJIA. Staff recommended that these funds be made available for future
programming.
Mr. Reichgelt said that the reason why so many programs returned funds is because their
direct grants from the ICJIA were terminated early. The grants were terminated early
because these programs are now supported by ICJIA grant funds passed through the
Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault, the Illinois Coalition Against Domestic
Violence, or the Child Advocacy Centers of Illinois as a result of the new competitive
NOFO process which called for uniform grant start and end dates. There were no gaps in
the provision of services.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended reductions of FFY15 VOCA
designations. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
Recommended Designations
Associate Director Givens called attention to the list of recommended designations in the
table at the bottom of Page 2 of the memo. He said that in keeping with the priorities
identified by the Victim Services Ad Hoc Committee, staff recommends designating
$1,107,514 in FFY16 funds to the entities as described in the table to support services to
victims of child abuse, financial crimes, and impaired driving. He called attention to a
misprint in the first full line on Page 4 of the memo. The correction should read
(correction in italics):
“The total dollars requested from the received applications: $3,739,450.”

 9/28/17 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 7

Mr. Reichgelt said that most of the applications that were not approved for funding were
disqualified because they did not meet specific criteria. He also said that since these are
new programs adjustments will likely be made to the reporting parameters.
Ms. Hora expressed concern that it was difficult to support the dollar amounts of the
recommended designations without more information.
General Counsel Weis said that the staff VOCA attorney had reviewed all designation
recommendations and that the dollar amounts were reasonable. Programs recommended
for funding all exhibited adherence to best and/or evidence-based practices.
Ms. Wolff said that the substance of the programming is an issue better left to the
Authority Board to discuss and should not be the concern of the Budget Committee.
Associate Director Givens said that staff would review these programs as they progress
and make recommendations regarding how much money they should receive in
subsequent years of funding, or even if they should continue at all.
Staff provided details regarding each program that was recommended for a VOA
designation.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY16 VOCA designations.
Ms. Barnes seconded the motion. The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Campanelli moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Vollen-Katz seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
11:51 a.m.

 