ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
July 27, 2017, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 10:01 a.m. General
Counsel Angie Weis called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Cook Co. Public Defender Amy Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney
Kimberly Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
Pamela Paziotopoulos
Illinois State Police Director Leo Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R.
Baldwin
McLean County Public Defender Carla Barnes
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie
Johnson
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
Peoria County Sheriff Michael McCoy
Peoria Police Chief Jerry Mitchell

Present Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
Present Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 2

State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
Director Beverly Walker
Jennifer Vollen-Katz

X
X
X
X
X
X

Chair Robb appointed Ms. Barnes to the Budget Committee for the duration of the
meeting.
Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Program Specialist Maureen Brennan
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Associate Director Kevin Givens
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Rick Krause, representing the Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Executive Director John Maki
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
ICJIA Program Supervisor Greg Stevens
ICJIA General Counsel Angie Weis
Other Authority staff members and guests
Minutes of the May 25, 2017, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the minutes of the May 25, 2017, Budget
Committee Meeting. Ms. Paziotopoulos seconded the motion and it passed by unanimous
voice vote.
Prison Rape Elimination Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated July 27, 2017, regarding the
FFY16 Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) Plan Introduction. He said that PREA calls
for federal, state, and local corrections systems to have a zero-tolerance policy regarding
prison rape (as defined by PREA) in prisons, jails, police lock-ups, and other confinement
facilities. The Illinois Department of Corrections (IDOC) identified a need for additional
cameras at the Illinois River Correctional Center, a medium security adult male
correctional facility, and the Logan Correctional Center, a maximum security correctional
center for women. The two correctional centers were chosen due to their sensitive and
vulnerable populations and as a result of a facility internal affairs and operations review

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 3

of all camera installations. The two locations were deemed as having the greatest needs
for additional cameras after an operations staff review of current IDOC security camera
inventory. ICJIA’s FFY16 PREA award was $124,797. Staff recommends designating the
funds to IDOC to purchase security cameras and peripheral equipment as part of its
Inmate Sexual Assault – Prevention and Intervention Program.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended FFY16 PREA designation.
Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Victims of Crime Act
FFY15
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated July 27, 2017, regarding
FFY15 and FFY16 Victims of Crime Act (VOCA) Plan Adjustments. He said staff
recommended designating $47,697 in FFY15 funds to the McLean County Child
Advocacy Center and the Sangamon County Child Advocacy Center. These funds will
allow these programs to operate until the end of calendar year 2017 when a new Notice of
Funding Opportunity will open.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VOCA designations.
Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote with
recusals by Ms. Barnes and Hon. Robb.
FFY16
Associate Director Givens said staff recommended designating $455,000 in FFY16 funds
to the City of Chicago Department of Family and Support Services for its Statewide
Domestic Violence Hotline.
Motion: Hon. Robb moved to approve the recommended FFY16 VOCA designation.
Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Violence Against Women Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated July 27, 2017, regarding
FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Plan Adjustments.
He said that these recommended designations to five multidisciplinary team response
program (MDTs), represented as groups A – E in the memo, comprise funds for the final
year of a three-year funding period for these programs. A new Notice of Funding
Opportunity will be issued in the next calendar year for a new scope of work.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 4

Motion: Ms. Paziotopoulos moved to approve the recommended FFY15 and FFY16
VOCA designations for Multidisciplinary Team Response Program Group A (Cook
County Domestic Violence MDT), as described in the table on Page 2 of the memo (Page
16 of the meeting materials package). Ms. Barnes seconded the motion and the motion
passed by unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Ms. Kramer.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VOCA designations for
Multidisciplinary Team Response Program Group B (Cook County Sexual Assault
MDT), as described in the table on Page 2 of the memo (Page 16 of the meeting materials
package). Ms. Dunne seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote with a recusal by Ms. Kramer.
Motion: Hon. Robb moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VOCA designations
for Multidisciplinary Team Response Program Groups C, D, and E (Kankakee County
Sexual Assault MDT, Peoria County Domestic Violence MDT, and St. Clair County
MDT, respectively), as described in the table on Page 2 of the memo (Page 16 of the
meeting materials package). Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
State Appropriations
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated July 27, 2017, regarding
SFY18 state-appropriated program funding for Ceasefire, Safe From the Start, and
Community-Based Violence Intervention and Prevention.
Ceasefire
Associate Director Givens said that the mission of Ceasefire Illinois, a unit at the
University of Illinois at Chicago School of Public Health, is to work with community and
government partners to reduce violence in all forms and help design interventions
required for community and city anti-violence plans. Ceasefire is an evidence-informed
public health approach to reduce violence, he said. He noted $6,094,300 was made
available, via SB-0006, to support Ceasefire in SFY18. Staff recommended designating
$5,484,870 of those funds to the University of Illinois at Chicago School of Public Health
to support this program. He called attention to the supplemental Grant Recommendation
Report document that had been provided to the Board members detailing the Ceasefire
program.
Community-Based Violence Prevention and Intervention
Associate Director Givens said that Illinois’s SFY18 budget included $8,000,000 for
Community-Based Violence Intervention and Prevention Program (CB-VIP) grants and
administration. Staff recommended that approximately $6,700,000 to $7,200,000 be

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 5

made available under a Notice of Funding Opportunity with grants ranging from
$100,000 to $1,000,000 to support programming for an initial 10-month period. He said
the anticipated grant period would be Oct 1, 2017, to June 30, 2018. He said the funding
opportunity would be open to public and not-for-profit entities providing communitybased violence prevention and intervention services in Illinois. The opportunity would
not be open to Cure Violence/Ceasefire (University of Illinois at Chicago) or its subgrantees for similar activities for the same population because they received a separate
state SFY18 appropriation for that purpose, he said. He noted the target population would
be youth and young adults, including, but not limited to, those who are identified as being
at heightened risk for violence or those who engage in high-risk behavior or violence.
Associate Director Givens called attention to the third bullet point on Page 2 of the memo
(Page 28 of the meeting materials package). He said that the following text should be
disregarded:
“… (additional points will be given for applications that reflect more than one
category).”
Executive Director Maki said that the designations represent the first of the stateappropriated program funds that will be subject to the Grant Accountability and
Transparency Act (GATA) requirements and, therefore, ICJIA staff will need to adhere to
policies and procedures over which they do not have much control. He said this could
increase the amount of time that it will take to process these designations and actually
distribute the funds.
Safe From the Start
Associate Director Givens said that the Safe From the Start (SFS) grant program is
designed to assist in the development, implementation, and evaluation of comprehensive
and coordinated community-based models to identify, assess, and serve children,
(primarily ages 0-5) who have been exposed to violence in their homes and/or
communities. He said that staff recommends designating a maximum of $1,031,400 in
SFY18 SFS funds to entities as described in the table on Page 3 of the memo (Page 29 of
the meeting materials package).
Motion: Ms. Barnes moved to approve the recommended SFY18 Ceasefire designation
to the University of Illinois at Chicago School of Public Health. Ms. Paziotopoulos
seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote with abstentions by
Ms. Dunne, Director Schmitz, and Ms. Wolff.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended SFY18 Community-Based
Violence Prevention and Intervention Notice of Funding Opportunity. Ms. Kramer
seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 6

Motion: Hon. Robb moved to approve the recommended SFY18 Safe From the Start
designations. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Act
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated July 27, 2017, regarding the
FFY17 Residential Substance Abuse Treatment Plan Introduction. He said the
Residential Substance Abuse Treatment (RSAT) guidelines require that a minimum of 10
percent of each federal award is made available to local correctional facilities. He said in
2016, ICJIA issued a notice of funding opportunity to solicit applications for local opioid
medication-assisted treatment services using RSAT and JAG local set-aside funds. He
reported that no applications were received and the local RSAT set-aside dollars
remained unspent. He said in May 2017, ICJIA issued a notice of funding opportunity to
solicit applications for state and local correctional treatment and aftercare services to be
supported with anticipated FFY17 RSAT funds and local funds remaining from the
FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 awards. He said the notice detailed federal RSAT
requirements and model RSAT programs and best practices. Four applications were
received from state agencies, but none were received from local agencies, he said. He
added ICJIA’s application for FFY17 RSAT funds was submitted June 28, 2017, and the
award was expected to commence October 1, 2017.
Associate Director Givens said that four applications were received in response to the
May 2017 RSAT Notice of Funding Opportunity. The applications were scored by a team
of ICJIA grant and research staff following ICJIA’s GATA-compliant, merit-based
review process. He said two of the four applications met the minimum scoring threshold.
Staff recommended the following designations; $84,715 in FFY16 RSAT funds to IDOC
to support its Dual Diagnosis / Female Treatment program and $46,060 in FFY17 funds
to the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice (IDJJ) to support treatment programs at its
Illinois Youth Center at Harrisburg facility. He said the FFY17 designation was
contingent on the receipt of the award.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the recommended FFY16 and FFY17 RSAT
designations. Ms. Barnes seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote.
Justice Assistance Grants
Associate Director Givens called attention to a memo dated July 27, 2017, regarding the
FFY13, FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 Justice Assistance Grants (JAG) plan adjustments.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 7

Executive Director Maki said these JAG designation recommendations were the first
resulting from the GATA-compliant competitive process. The designations are more
aligned with population and need as opposed to past legacy-based designations, he said.
Designation Reductions
Associate Director Givens called attention to the chart on Page 1 of the memo (Page 37
of the meeting materials package) describing $322,222 in FFY13 and FFY14 funds
recently returned to ICJIA. He said that staff recommended making the funds available
for future programming.
Motion: Hon. Robb moved to approve the recommended FFY13 and FFY14 JAG
designation reductions. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote with a recusal by Ms. Barnes.
Recommended Designations
Notice of Funding Opportunity: Comprehensive Law Enforcement Response to Narcotics
Associate Director Givens said that at the February 24, 2017, Budget Committee
meeting, the committee approved the use of $4.2 million in then-available FFY14,
FFY15, and FFY16 JAG funds to issue a competitive notice of funding opportunity in the
second quarter of 2017 for comprehensive law enforcement responses to narcotics. He
said proposals were solicited in March 2017 for three types of programing supporting a
three-pronged strategy designed to address both the supply and demand for narcotics:
1. Police-led substance use diversion/deflection programs.
2. Multijurisdictional large-scale narcotic trafficking enforcement.
3. Multijurisdictional narcotic prosecution programs.
Associate Director Givens called attention to the chart at the bottom of Page 3 of the
memo (Page 39 of the meeting materials package) comparing available fund distribution
within the 2017 funding opportunity’s three categories with how JAG funds were
previously distributed to the programs. He then called attention to the chart on Page 4 of
the memo (Page 40 of the meeting materials package) describing FFY13, FFY14, FFY15,
and FFY16 designation recommendations pursuant to the conclusion of the GATAcompliant merit-based review of applications. He called attention to the maps on pages
45, 46, and 47 of the meeting materials package illustrating the geographic distribution of
the recommended Comprehensive Law Enforcement Response to Narcotics program
designations.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 8

Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the FFY13 and FFY16 JAG designation
recommendations for police-led diversion/deflection programs. Ms. Kramer seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
Motion: Ms. Barnes moved to approve the FFY13, FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16 JAG
designation recommendations for multijurisdictional large-scale narcotic trafficking
enforcement programs. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote, with a recusal by Ms. Kramer.
Motion: Ms. Paziotopoulos moved to approve the FFY13, FFY14, FFY15, and FFY16
JAG designation recommendations for multijurisdictional narcotic prosecution units
programs. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice
vote.
Continuations of Current Programs
Associate Director Givens said that as Director Maki explained in his January 23, 2017,
memorandum to the Board, ICJIA will be using standardized notices of funding
opportunity (NOFOs) to make JAG awards, as required by the Grants Accountability and
Transparency Act and ICJIA’s JAG Strategic Plan. He said that given ICJIA’s current
staffing levels, it is not possible to transition all JAG programs simultaneously to NOFOdriven awards; therefore, staff has grouped the JAG programs into four primary strategic
areas and will issue a staggered series of corresponding NOFOs to which potential
grantees will be able to apply over the next two years per the schedule on Page 5 of the
memo (Page 41 of the meeting materials package). Other programs offering
comprehensive responses that did not fit into the parameters of that NOFO also are in
need of funding, he said. He said while previously described staffing limitations preclude
the use of a competitive process at that time, staff recommended designating the funds to
support programs described in the table at the bottom of Page 5/6 of the memo (Page
41/42 of the meeting materials package). Referring to that chart, he said the
recommended designation to the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice for its Youth
Offender Re-Entry Program in the amount of $91,800 should be disregarded.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the FFY15 and FFY16 JAG designation
recommendations to ICJIA, Coles County, Winnebago County, and IDOC for program
continuations. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote.
Motion: Ms. Dunne moved to approve the FFY16 JAG designation recommendation to
the Cook County Public Defender’s Office for program continuation. Ms. Wolff
seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 9

Motion: Hon. Robb moved to approve the FFY15 and FFY16 JAG designation
recommendations to the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office for program
continuations. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote with a recusal by Ms. Kramer.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the FFY14 JAG designation recommendation to
the State Appellate Defender’s Office for program continuation. Ms. Wolff seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote with a recusal by Ms. Barnes.
Motion: Ms. Paziotopoulos moved to approve the FFY14 JAG designation
recommendation to the State Appellate Prosecutor’s Office for program continuation. Ms.
Wolff seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote with a
recusal by Director Delfino.
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the FFY14 and FFY15 JAG designation
recommendations to Be Well Partners in Health and Haymarket Center for program
continuations. Hon. Robb seconded the motion and the motion passed by unanimous
voice vote with a recusal by Ms. Dunne.
Designation Increase
Rockford Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime
Associate Director Givens said that in August 2016, the Budget Committee approved a
designation to the Rockford Metropolitan Agency for Planning (RMAP) to implement the
Illinois Partnerships to Reduce Violent Crime program. Reports from RMAP indicate that
it will not be able to complete all of these tasks on their accelerated schedule. Staff
recommended an increase of $25,204 to RMAP’s FFY14 JAG designation to extend its
agreement to the full 12-month period of performance for a total designation of $181,098.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the FFY14 JAG designation increase
recommendation to RMAP. Ms. Dunne seconded the motion and the motion passed by
unanimous voice vote.
Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 10

Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Paziotopoulos seconded the
motion and the motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at
11:08 a.m.

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
Budget Committee Meeting
July 27, 2017

 