ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street • Suite 200 • Chicago, Illinois 60606 • (312) 793-8550

ICJIA Institutional Review Board (IRB)
Meeting Minutes
Thursday, February, 16, 2017, 1:00 p.m.
Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority
300 W. Adams Street, Suite 200
Chicago, Illinois 60606

I.

Call to Order/Roll Call
Dr. Evan Harrington called the meeting to order at 1:10 p.m. ICJIA Associate General
Counsel Simeon Kim called the roll.

Member Name
Dr. Rachel Johnston, Chair
Director John Maki, ICJIA
Ms. Era Laudermilk
Dr. LaDonna Long
Dr. Evan Harrington
Dr. Dan Cooper
Ms. Maya Szilak

Present

Absent
X
X

By Telephone

X
X
X
X
X

Five members were present in person and a quorum was established.
II.

Approval of Meeting Minutes – August 18, 2016.
Dr. Harrington asked for any comments regarding the meeting minutes of August 18,
2016. Dr. Harrington wanted to clarify a statement on page 3, in the second paragraph,
where it stated, “Dr. Harrington stated that his comments were just suggestions; they are
not really needed.” He stated that the suggestions were best practices for research ethics,
although not required by the federal regulations. The “not really needed” part could be
“not required by the federal regulations.”
Vote: Ms. Laudermilk moved to approve the minutes. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion.
The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

III.

Full IRB Application Review: None.

IV.

Renewal Application Review: None.

 V.

Old business: None.

VI.

Exempt Application Review: None.

VII.

Expedited Application:
A. Impact of Legislative Changes on the IDOC Prison Population (James Austin and
Megan Alderden). This proposal was approved through the expedited review process in
November 2016.

VIII.

Amendment Application Review:
A. Impact of Legislative Changes on the IDOC Prison Population (Christine Devitt)
Protocol Change: The project methodology is being modified to include criminal history
records of the cohort included in the study, which consists of all persons exiting from the
Illinois Department of Corrections (IDOC) in state fiscal year 2015. Research staff from
ICJIA will match the IDOC records to the corresponding criminal history records
available in the Illinois Criminal History Record Information (CHRI) System, using last
name, first name, and date of birth. The individuals’ complete state criminal history
records will be pulled from the CHRI System Ad Hoc Database. The IDOC and CHRI
files will be combined, stripped of all identifiers, and disseminated to James Austin at
JFA Institute, the principle investigator responsible for developing the state-specific
sentencing model. This de-identified data file will not be shared with any researcher
outside of JFA Institute, including the co-principle investigator at Rutgers University.
Discussion: Dr. Harrington asked if the addendum changes the de-identified status of the
information. Ms. Devitt replied that ICJIA only provides de-identified data to the
researchers. They do not need the identifiers in their model. Dr. Harrington stated that he
does not see any additional risk so it would qualify similarly as the original protocol.
Vote: Dr. Cooper made a motion to approve. Ms. Laudermilk seconded the motion. The
motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
B. Evaluation of Safe Passage (Jessica Reichert)
Protocol Change: We would like to obtain more demographic information from the Safe
Passage Initiative Client Intake Form. We would like first and last name, date of birth,
race/ethnicity. The Dixon Police Department will electronically send an encrypted file by
secure email the identifying information of clients to the PI (ICJIA Research Manager).
The identifying information received from Dixon will be destroyed once no longer
needed.
We will use name and date of birth to pull their criminal history record information to
compare arrest activity before and after participation in Safe Passage. ICJIA researchers
will link the names to arrest data. Identifiers are needed to link to electronic Criminal
History Record Information (CHRI). After the data is gathered, a unique id code can

 replace their name, so the database is de-identified. All data will be saved on secure,
password-protected computer. The names will be under the researcher’s exclusive control
and will not be shared in any written publication. With a relatively small sample size,
care will be taken to maintain our participants’ confidentiality.
We would like to add interviews with treatment providers who provide services for those
Safe Passage clients with substance use disorders. Questions and consent form are
attached.
Consent Procedure Change: For the analysis of the intake form data, we were approved
for a waiver of consent due to our use of administrative, de-identified data.
Consent Document Change: Adding a consent form.
Discussion: Dr. Harrington asked if the consent forms were for just the 10 treatment
providers. Ms. Reichert stated “correct.” Dr. Long asked if there was another way of
asking Question 41, “Do you think police need more training?” She said the question
might lead someone to think that the researchers think police need more training. Dr.
Cooper stated that Ms. Reichert may want to ask whether someone in the individual
organizations could better speak to treatment provided under the Safe Passage Initiative.
He said an organization’s executive director may know more than individual treatment
providers.
Vote: Dr. Cooper moved to approve. Ms. Laudermilk seconded the motion. The motion
passed by unanimous voice vote.
IX.

Dr. Mock introduced Caitlin Delong as the new IRB manager.

X.

Adjourn:
Ms. Laudermilk moved to adjourn at 1:35 p.m. Dr. Cooper seconded the motion. The
motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 