ILLINOIS
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
INFORMATION AUTHORITY
300 W. Adams Street  Suite 200  Chicago, Illinois 60606  (312) 793-8550

MINUTES
ILLINOIS CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION AUTHORITY
BUDGET COMMITTEE MEETING
December 13, 2018, at 10:00 a.m.
300 West Adams, Suite 200
Large Conference Room
Chicago, Illinois 60606

Call to Order and Roll Call
Budget Committee Chair Cynthia Hora called the meeting to order at 10:04 a.m. ICJIA
Acting General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz called the roll.
Meeting attendance was as follows:
Budget Committee Member Attendance
Peter Kocerka for Cook Co. Public Defender Amy
Campanelli
Kathryn Dunne for Cook Co. Sheriff Tom Dart
Nicole Kramer for Cook County State’s Attorney Kimberly
Foxx
Cynthia Hora for Attorney General Lisa Madigan
James O’Grady for Illinois State Police Director Leo
Schmitz
Paula Wolff
Other Authority Member Attendance
Kendall County Sheriff Dwight Baird
Illinois Department of Corrections Director John R. Baldwin
McLean Co. Public Defender Carla Barnes
Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown
State Appellate Defenders Office Director James Chadd
State’s Attorney’s Appellate Prosecutor’s Office Director
Patrick Delfino
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
Director Brent Fischer
Chicago Police Department Superintendent Eddie Johnson
DeKalb County Circuit Court Clerk Maureen Josh
Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler
David Olson
Metra Chief of Police Joseph Perez

Present

Telephone

Absent

X
X
X
X
X
X
Present

Telephone

Absent
X

X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X

 12/13/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 2

State Appellate Defender’s Office Director Michael J.
Pelletier
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
Authority Chair Hon. Elizabeth Robb
Kathryn Saltmarsh
Illinois Department of Public Health Director Nirav Shah
Jennifer Vollen-Katz
Antwan Turpeau for Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services Director Beverly Walker

X
X
X

Hon. Robb appointed all ICJIA Board members who were present at the meeting to the
Budget Committee for the duration of the meeting.
Also in attendance were:
ICJIA Acting General Counsel Malgorzata Bereziewicz
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shai Hoffman
Liliana Kajcic, Director of Saint Dominic Savio Program, Maryville Academy
Rick Krause, Illinois Department of Corrections
ICJIA Federal & State Grant Unit Administrative Assistant Jude Lemrow
ICJIA Executive Director John Maki
Patricia McCreary, Cook County Circuit Court Clerk’s Office
Sarah Melgarejo, Clinical Director of Residential Programs, Maryville Academy
ICJIA Program Specialist Lajuana Murphy
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt
Sr. Catherine Ryan, O.S.F., Executive Director, Maryville Academy
Evelyn Smith, Administrator of Residential Programs, Maryville Academy
ICJIA Federal & State Grants Unit Acting Associate Director Greg Stevens
George Vargas, Chief Financial Officer, Maryville Academy
Other Authority staff members and guests

Executive Director’s Remarks
ICJIA Executive Director John Maki said ICJIA received its FFY17 Justice Assistance
Grants award, but must now navigate a number of certifications before those funds are
made available.

X
X
X
X

 12/13/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 3

I. Minutes of the October 18, 2018, Budget Committee Meeting
Motion: Ms. Kramer moved to approve the minutes of the October 18, 2018, Budget
Committee Meeting. Mr. Kocerka seconded the motion.
Ms. Kramer said that the last paragraph on Page 4 of the minutes should read (correction
in italics):
“ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt referred the Budget Committee
members to a memo located at Page 19 of the meeting materials…”
Vote: The motion, including the correction, passed by unanimous voice vote.
II. Community - Law Enforcement Partnership for Deflection and Substance Abuse
Treatment (CLEP)
ICJIA Program Specialist Lajuana Murphy said that at a previous Budget Committee
meeting, the committee approved a Community - Law Enforcement Partnership for
Deflection and Substance Abuse Treatment (CLEP) Notice of Funding Opportunity
(NOFO). She said the funding opportunity was designed to authorize law enforcement to
develop and implement a deflection program that offers an immediate pathway to
substance use treatment as an alternative to involvement in the criminal justice system.
She said eight applications were received and six applicants were recommended for
designations. She said staff recommended designating a total of $420,573 to the entities.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended SFY19 CLEP designations. Mr.
Olson seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

V. FFY15 Victims Assistance Discretionary Grant Training Program
ICJIA Program Supervisor Ron Reichgelt said ICJIA received a FFY15 Victims
Assistance Discretionary Grant Training Program (VADGT) from the U.S. Office for
Victims of Crime (OVC) for the purpose of training Victims of Crime Act (VOCA)
grantee staff. He said OVC created VADGT to assist states with training costs. He
described $40,612 in final lapsed funds from VADGT grant programs as the FFY15
VADGT award is being closed out and staff recommended reducing the program
designations.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY15 VADGT designation
reductions. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed with a recusal by Ms. Hora due to her involvement with the
Illinois Attorney General’s Office.

 12/13/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 4

III. FFY18 Victims of Crime Act Discretionary Training and Technical Assistance
Grant
Mr. Reichgelt said the FFY18 Victims of Crime Act Discretionary Training and
Technical Assistance Grant (DTTA) will support programs that had been supported by
the now-defunct VADGT program plus training for Child Advocacy Centers of Illinois
staff. He said that in addition to the $316,667 in recommended FFY18 DTTA
designations, ICJIA would retain some DTTA funds to hire a contractual training
coordinator to allow ICJIA to conduct additional trainings for victim groups and sponsor
conferences.
Motion: Chief Perez moved to approve the recommended FFY18 DTTA designations.
Ms. Wolff seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed with a recusal by Ms. Hora due to her involvement with the
Illinois Attorney General’s Office.
VII. Victims of Crime Act Plan Adjustments
Mr. Reichgelt referred to the memo at Page 53 of the meeting materials and regarding the
Victims of Crime Act VOCA plan adjustments.
A. Designation Reductions
Mr. Reichgelt described the recommended FFY15 and FFY16 designation reductions as
presented on pages 1 and 2 of the memo. He said that many of the transitional housing
program grantees were delayed in starting, resulting in lapsed funds. He said that
restrictions imposed by the Grant Accountability and Transparency Act have made it
difficult to get new programs up and running in a relatively short time period and that,
going forward, larger fund lapses could become normal.
Motion: Mr. Olson moved to approve the recommended FFY15 and FFY16 designation
reductions. Mr. Kocerka seconded the motion. Vote: The motion passed by unanimous
voice vote.
B. Recommended Designations
1. Victims of Crime Act: CASA Victim Assistance
Mr. Reichgelt said staff recommended using $1,106,973 in VOCA FFY16 funds to
increase existing designations to Court Appointed Special Advocate (CASA) Victim
Assistance programs, as described in the table at the bottom of page 2 of the memo. This
will allow these programs to continue until June 30, 2019. He said that the recommended
increases appear to be inconsistent across the board because they are based on the
grantees’ anticipated expenditures through June 30, 2019, and the amounts vary
depending on how much of their existing designations they have already spent.

 12/13/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 5

Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY16 CASA Victim
Assistance program designation increases. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
2. Victims of Crime Act: Law Enforcement, Prosecution Victim Assistance
Mr. Reichgelt said staff recommended using $1,344,829 in VOCA FFY16 funds to
increase existing designations to Law Enforcement, Prosecution Victim Assistance
programs by the amounts described in the table at the top of page 3 of the memo so that
these programs could continue until June 30, 2019. He said that the recommended
increases appear to be inconsistent across the board because they are based on the
grantees’ anticipated expenditures through June 30, 2019, and the amounts vary
depending on how much of their existing designations they have already spent.
He said an evaluation of the law enforcement component of the program is under way.
Ms. Hora said that she would like to review the notices of funding opportunities for these
programs as they pertain to state’s attorney’s offices because so few submitted qualifying
applications.
Motion: Chief Perez moved to approve the recommended FFY16 Law Enforcement,
Prosecution Victim Assistance program designation increases. Ms. Wolff seconded the
motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote with a recusal by Ms. Kramer due to
her involvement with the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.
3. Residential Treatment for Justice-Involved Girls
Mr. Reichgelt said that staff recommends designating $844,268 in FFY17 VOCA funds
to Maryville Academy to implement an intensive residential treatment program for girls
ages 14 through 18 who are in the custody of the Illinois Department of Juvenile Justice
and have histories of trauma and abuse.
Sr. Ryan introduced members of the Maryville Academy staff and described the
Maryville Academy and the proposed program.
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to approve the recommended FFY17 Residential Treatment
for Justice-Involved Girls program designation. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.

 12/13/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 6

IV. FFY18 Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act Plan
Introduction
Mr. Stevens, referring to the memo at Page 30 of the meeting materials and regarding the
FFY18 Paul Coverdell National Forensic Sciences Improvement Act (NFSIA) Plan
Introduction, said the FFY18 award to ICJIA is $759,283, almost twice as much as the
FFY17 award of $307,162.
Mr. Stevens said that new NFSIA programming guidelines require grantees to address the
opioid crisis. He described $759,283 in FFY18 funds recommended for designations to
entities as described in the table in the memo.
Motion: Chief Perez moved to approve the recommended FFY18 NFSIA program
designations. Ms. Wolff seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote.
VI. Violence Against Women Act Plan Adjustments
Ms. Hailey referred to a memo on page 40 of the meeting materials on Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA) Plan Adjustments.
A. Designation Reductions
ICJIA Program Supervisor Shataun Hailey described $282 in FFY12, $8,226 in FFY13,
$98,887 in FFY15, and $23,413 in FFY16 funds recently returned to ICJIA. She said
FFY15 funds expired on June 30, 2018, and were no longer available for use. She said
staff recommended making the returned FFY15 and FFY16 funds available for future
programming.
Motion: Mr. Kocerka moved to approve the recommended FFY12, FFY13, FFY15, and
FFY16 VAWA program designation reductions. Mr. Olson seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote with a recusal by Ms. Kramer due to
her involvement with the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.
B. New Designations
Ms. Hailey said that ICJIA had convened an Ad Hoc Victim Services Committee to
review past priorities and define new ones for the use of FFY17-FFY20 VAWA STOP
VAWA funds. Multi-disciplinary team response programs were identified as a funding
priority at that time, she said. She said in August 2018, a notice of funding opportunity
was issued to all existing MDT program grantees for continuation grants. She said all
applied and all were approved. She said staff recommended $121,485 in FFY15,

 12/13/18 Budget Committee Meeting Minutes, Page 7

$643,342 in FFY16, $1,926,392 in FFY17, and $558,211 in FFY18 funds be designated
to VAWA MDT programs as described in the table on pages 2 and 3 of the memo.
Ms. Hora requested that future VAWA memos include descriptions of remaining funds
and their distributions among the five VAWA program categories.
Motion: Chief Perez moved to approve the recommended FFY15, FFY16, FFY17 and
FFY18 VAWA program designations. Mr. Kocerka seconded the motion.
Vote: The motion passed by unanimous voice vote with a recusal by Ms. Kramer due to
her involvement with the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office.
VIII. Public Comment
None.
Old Business / New Business
None.
Adjourn
Motion: Ms. Wolff moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Kramer seconded the motion.
The motion passed by unanimous voice vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:39 a.m.

 