Alton James
Chairperson

Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair-Secretary

Brenda Goss Andrews

Lisa Whitmore Davis
David Espamn, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

QEity at Detroit

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: 

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the Detroit City Flaming Commission in the Committee of the

Whole

Room, 13th Floor, Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, Detroit,

Michigan 48226, on

THURSDAY. MAY 16.. 2019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider the request of Pogoda Companies to amend Article XVII, District Map No. 40 of the
1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter Zoning, by showing a B4 (General Business District) zoning
classi?cation where an M4 (Intensive Industrial District) zoning classi?cation and an R5 (Major
Business District) zoning classi?cation currently exists on property at 15999 Joy Road and a

portion

of 15801 Joy Road, generally located on the south side of Joy Road east of St. Mary?s

Street containing 3.34 acres. The location of the proposed rezoning is indicated as the highlighted

area on

the accompanying map.

The proposed map amendment is being requested to develop the presently vacant land into a self-

storage

facilityfpublic storage house.

The pertinent zoning district classi?cations are described as follows:

R5 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT 

This district is designed to provide for a range of residential development from the single-
family detached dwelling to medium-density multiple?family dwellings. The primary use
in this district will be the rental apartment structure. In addition to permitted residential
uses, certain speci?ed non-residential uses which can be properly blended into this
district may be permitted.

B4 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT

The B4 General Business District provides for business and commercial uses of a
thoroughfare-oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses, which may
bene?t by drawing part of their clientele from passing traf?c are permitted. Additional
uses, which may be successfully blended with permitted by-right uses, are conditional.

M4 INTENSIVE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT

This district will permit uses which are usually objectionable and, therefore, the district is
rarely, if ever, located adjacent to residential districts. A broad range of uses is permitted
in this district. New residences are prohibited with the exception of loft conversions of
existing buildings and of residential uses combined in structures with permitted

commercial uses. These requirements are to protect residences from an undesirable
environment and to ensure reservation of adequate areas for industrial development.

A Zoning Ordinance map amendment requires approval of the City Council after a public hearing
and after receipt of a report and recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning
Ordinance map amendment request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article
[11, Division 3 of Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may present your views on this pr0posal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing; 2 Woodward Avenue, Room 208,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). Because it is possible that some who are affected
by this proposal may not have been noti?ed, it is suggested that you kindly inform your neighbors
so that they too may express their positions if they so desire.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313) 224-4950, through the
TTY number 711, or email criogcgdetroinnigov to schedule these services.

For ?irther information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 

 

 

 l IL l  ILI 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOY ROAD
84 [jgProposed Rezoning from M4 R5 to B4

