Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago

Special Meeting – Regular Minutes

March 7, 2019
9:07 AM
Office of the Fund

 Date of Meeting:

March 7, 2019

Start Time:

9:07 a.m.

Location:

The Fund Office, 321 N. Clark Street, Suite 1300, Chicago, IL 60654

Board Members :
Victor Roa
Erin Keane
Michael LoVerde
Carol Hamburger
James Capasso, Jr.
James Joiner

– President
– Vice President
– Secretary
– Trustee
– Trustee
– Trustee

Joseph Burns
James Wesner
Kweku Obed
Neil Capps
Peggy Grabowski
John Carroll
Sheila Jones
Nadia Oumata

– Jacobs, Burns, Orlove & Hernandez, Fund’s Counsel
– Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
– Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
– Marquette Associates, Fund’s Investment Consultant
– Comptroller
– Compliance Administrator
– Administrative Coordinator
– Manager of Accounting and Investments

Absent:

Kurt Summers
Carole Brown

– Trustee
– Trustee

Observer:

Jabari Porter, City Treasurer’s Office

Staff & Consultants:

A special meeting of the Retirement Board (“Board”) of the Laborers’ and Retirement Board Employees’
Annuity and Benefit Fund of Chicago (“LABF”) was held at the Fund Office on March 7, 2019. President
Roa declared that there was a quorum after Secretary LoVerde took attendance. There was no public
participation.

INFRASTRUCTURE FUND RFP PRESENTATION
Ms. Oumata reminded the Board that in connection with the infrastructure fund search, the Board had
selected Brookfield Asset Management (Brookfield Super-Core Infrastructure Partners Fund), JPMorgan
Asset Management (JPMorgan Infrastructure Investments Fund), and Ullico Investment Company (Ullico
Infrastructure Fund) to make presentations to the Board, subject to the managers agreeing to adhere to the
Illinois Pension Code fiduciary standard. Ms. Oumata reported that only Ullico agreed to the Illinois
Pension Code fiduciary standard of care for the Ullico Infrastructure Taxable Fund, L.P. Mr. Wesner gave
a brief overview of the Ullico Infrastructure Fund, L.P. and reminded the Board that the RFP was for a
mandate of $30 million. In response to Trustee questions, Ms. Oumata also confirmed that Ullico had
assured LABF that it would comply with LABF’s fiduciary requirement for investment managers. The
Board heard Ullico’s presentation in executive session.

EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 1
At 9:12 a.m., Trustee LoVerde requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(7) to discuss the sale
or purchase of securities, investments, or investment contracts. Trustee Capasso seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 9:57 a.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion, seconded by Trustee Capasso, that the executive session be
adjourned and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

 It was moved by Trustee LoVerde, seconded by Trustee Capasso, to invest $30 million in the Ullico
Infrastructure Taxable Fund, L.P., subject to contract negotiations.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

INVESTMENT CONTRACT MATTER
This item was discussed in executive session.

EXECUTIVE SESSION NO. 2
At 9:59 a.m., Trustee Hamburger requested an executive session under 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(7) to discuss the
sale or purchase of securities, investments, or investment contracts. Trustee Joiner seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

At 10:22 a.m., Trustee Hamburger made a motion, seconded by Trustee LoVerde, that the executive session
be adjourned and that the Board return to open session.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against -- None.

The Trustees took no action.

UPDATED INVESTMENT POLICY STATEMENT
Ms. Oumata reviewed for the Board the material changes that were incorporated into the draft of the Fund’s
new Investment Policy Statement (IPS). The Board and staff discussed various current and proposed terms
of the IPS. The Trustees asked that staff update the draft for the March 19, 2019 Board meeting.

MANAGER PRESENTATION
Ariel Investments Update
Valarie King and Charles Bobrinskoy of Ariel Investments provided a brief update on Ariel Investments’
strategy, performance, and philosophy.

ADJOURNMENT
With no further business, at 11:15 a.m., Trustee LoVerde made a motion to adjourn. Trustee Capasso
seconded the motion.
Roll-call:

For -- Trustees Roa, Keane, LoVerde, Hamburger, Capasso, and Joiner.
Against – None.

 