Alton James ?it? of ctr? it Brenda Cass-Andrews

Chairperson Lisa Whitmore Davis

9? CITY PLANNING COMMISSION David Ewan?, AIA, LEED
v'cc 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory inlowski
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russeli, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224?6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 May Webb

e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

A public hearing will be held by the City Planning Commission in the Committee of the Whole
Room 1311? ?oor of the Coleman A. Youn Munici al Center 2 Woodward Avenue Detroit

Michigan 48226, on

 

THURSDAY, MAY 2. 2019 AT 6:15 PM

to consider the request of the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy to amend District Map No. of the
Detroit Zoning Ordinance to show a PR (Parks and Recreation District) zoning classi?cation
where a PCA (Public Center Adjacent District) zoning classi?cation is currently shown for the
properties generally bounded by West Jefferson Avenue on the north, Cabacier Street extended
on the east, the Detroit River on the south, and Rosa Parks Boulevard extended on the west and
more commonly known as 1801 West Jefferson Avenue.

The petitioner is proposing to develop a 22 acre regional riverfront park.
The existing and proposed districts are generally described in the Zoning Ordinance as follows:

PR - PARKS AND RECREATION DISTRICT
The intent of the Parks and Recreation District is to retain, insofar as is practicable and
desirable, publicly owned lands in excess of four (4) acres in size already improved for or
intended to be improved for recreational uses and/or to be preserved as open space. The
restrictions of this classi?cation are intended to encourage preservation of these lands and to
permit development in keeping with the natural amenities of these areas. In addition to those
uses allowed by right, commercial recreational facilities may be permitted upon approval of
the City Council..

PCA - PUBLIC CENTER ADJACENT DISTRICT (RESTRICTED CENTRAL

BUSINESS DISTRICT)
The Public Center Adjacent District (Restricted Central business district) includes property
in close proximity to the Public Center District, and the controls speci?ed in this division are
designed to prevent any uses or structures within the district from having a deleterious effect
upon the public center. Uses in this district shall include, to the maximum extent possible,
ground-?oor commercial space or other space oriented to pedestrian traffic, to enhance the
public streetscape and street-level activity.

Approval of a rezoning requires the approval of the City Council after receipt of a report and
recommendation by the City Planning Commission. This Zoning Ordinance map amendment
request is being considered consistent with the provisions of Article Division 3 of Chapter 61
of the 1984 Detroit City Code, the Detroit Zoning Ordinance.

You may express your views on this proposal by attending this hearing, by authorizing others to
represent you, or by writing to this of?ce prior to the hearing, 2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 202,
Detroit, Michigan 48226 (FAX: 313-224-4336). So that all who are affected have a chance to
voice their concerns, we suggest that you kindly inform your neighbors of this hearing, in the
case that they were not noti?ed.

With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services
at public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please
contact the Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at 313-224-4950, through the

TTY number 71 1, or email to schedule these services.

For further information on this proposal or the public hearing, please call (313) 224-6225.

 



I: 11 In-?

OSA PARKS BLVD 

 

 

Dashed Line General Boundary
Shaded Area Proposed site

