Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Tuesday, February 19, 2019 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1950 W. Polk Street, in
Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Richardson-Lowry called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Mary B. Richardson-Lowry and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Heather M.
Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH; and Sidney A. Thomas, MSW (4)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director Ada Mary Gugenheim

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Nick Krasucki – Equal Employment Opportunity
Director
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Carrie Pramuk-Volk –Employment Plan Officer
Barbara Pryor –Chief Human Resources Officer

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Wayne Wright – Director of Organizational
Development and Training

The next meeting of the Committee will be held on Tuesday, April 16, 2019 at 9:00 A.M.
II.

Public Speakers
Chair Richardson-Lowry asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Employment Plan Officer (Attachment #1)
Carrie Pramuk-Volk, CCHHS Employment Plan Officer (EPO), provided an overview of the presentation
regarding the 9th EPO Semi-Annual Report, which included information on the following subjects:





Reporting Period – July – December 2018
Employment Plan Changes
Monitoring and Investigations – Status Update
Employment Activity – Alternate Hiring Processes and Supplemental Policies

The 9th EPO Semi-Annual Report is included in Attachment #1.

IV.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of December 13, 2018
Director Prendergast, seconded by Director Thomas, moved to accept the minutes of the
meeting of the Human Resources Committee of December 13, 2018. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, February 19, 2019
Page 2

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B. Any items listed under Sections IV and VII

V.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer (Attachment #2)
Barbara Pryor, Chief Human Resources Officer, reviewed her report, which included information on the following
subjects:
Metrics: HR Activity Report
 Open Vacancies through 1/31/19
 Improve / Reduce Average Time to Hire
 Hiring Snapshot through 1/31/19
 Appendix – Nursing and Finance Hiring Snapshot through 1/31/19
During the review of the information on slide 5 of the presentation, regarding the hiring snapshot, Director
Prendergast inquired regarding the breakdown between clinical and non-clinical positions for the 159 vacancies
filled. Ms. Pryor responded that of the 159 vacancies filled, 39 were nurses, 4 were physicians and 107 were all
other positions. She indicated that she will provide a further breakdown of the positions that fall into the “other”
category. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, commented that, in an overall sense, he considers all
positions to be clinical, as they all impact the patient care experience in some way.
Board Chair Hammock inquired regarding the number of 864 currently vacant positions as referenced on slide 5
of the presentation. He requested that the Committee receive a chart with the flow of vacant positions as they have
in the past. Ms. Pryor responded that this can be provided; however, she noted that staff are working with the
County’s Budget Department to identify what that vacancy number is, as that has not yet been finalized. She
anticipates that this information will be available in time for the next Committee meeting.
Wayne Wright, Director of Organizational Development and Training, provided additional information on the
subject of orientation for new employees and contractors working within CCHHS.
Director Thomas inquired regarding the types of positions included in the Finance Hiring Snapshot on slide 8 of
the presentation. Ms. Pryor responded that she will provide that information.

VI.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Human Resources (Attachment #3)
Ms. Pryor provided an overview of the presentation, which included information on the following subjects:
 Overview of Human Resources Department
 Classification and Compensation, 2018 Accomplishments

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, February 19, 2019
Page 3

VI.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A.

Strategic planning discussion: Human Resources (continued)









Recruitment, 2018 Accomplishments
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO), 2018 Accomplishments
EEO – CCHHS Employee Population – Race and Ethnicity
Operations, 2018 Accomplishments Organizational Development and Training, 2018 Accomplishments
Human Resources Information Systems Technology Integration
Impact 2020 Recap – Status and Results
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) Analysis
Strategic Planning Recommendations

During the discussion of the information on slide 5 of the presentation, regarding recruitment, Chair RichardsonLowry inquired whether the number of 800 active titles in the organization is typical in the industry. Ms. Pryor
responded that she will have staff research into the subject and will return to the Committee with a response.
During the discussion of the information on slide 8 of the presentation, regarding the race and ethnicity of the
employee population, Chair Richardson-Lowry inquired whether this data can be supplemented with a category
for management. Ms. Pryor responded affirmatively.
Also with regard to the subject of race and ethnicity of the employee population, the Committee discussed the
complexities of the subject as it relates to sub-groups under the different categories, challenges associated with
self-identification and the inability to properly recognize certain groups under the existing categories. A question
was raised regarding whether the racial category of Asian includes those persons who are from India or who are of
Indian descent. Chair Richardson-Lawry clarified for the record that most of these categories are based on the
U.S. Census. Because this organization is a recipient of federal dollars in part, it tries to track that information
based on those categories. With respect to the Asian category, which is based on the Census, it does subsume
across the spectrum of Asians, including people who are from India or who are of Indian descent. With respect to
African Americans, those who are indigenous Africans do not typically get classified that way. The Black
category is used by indigenous Africans, and when that classification is deemed not descriptive enough they will
sometimes default to unknown. The organization is obligated to track this information; she stressed the
importance that the information has to be self-identified.
The Committee discussed the subject of workplace violence training. Currently, all employees receive training on
workplace violence as a part of their annual online training curriculum. Chair Richardson-Lowry noted that an
initiative that is trending is for companies to provide semi-annual training for managers on workplace violence.
Ms. Pryor responded that she will look into that, as it is a great idea.
Board Chair Hammock inquired can the Committee can receive metrics on bilingual hires, when the information
is available, comparing where the organization stands today versus execution of the strategic plan. Ms. Pryor
responded affirmatively.
Director Thomas requested data on patients’ preferred languages; he noted that this information was provided
during the previous strategic plan’s discussions.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, February 19, 2019
Page 4

VII. Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Richardson-Lowry declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/Follow-up:
Follow-up:

Regarding slide 5 of the metrics, regarding the number of vacant positions, a request was made for a
chart with the flow of vacant positions as has been provided in the past. Page 2

Request:

A request was made for information on the types of positions included in the Finance Hiring
Snapshot, on side 8 of the metrics. Page 2

Follow-up:

A suggestion was made to look into the subject of whether the number of active titles (800) in the
organization is typical in the industry. Page 3

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Tuesday, February 19, 2019
Page 5

Request:

With regard to the information regarding race and ethnicity of the employees (slide 8), a request
was made to include a category for management. Page 3

Follow-up:

A suggestion was made to look into the possibility of providing semi-annual training for managers
on workplace violence, in addition to the annual online training provided. Page 3

Request:

A request was made for metrics on bilingual hires, when the information becomes available. Page 3

Request:

A request was made for data on patients’ preferred languages. Page 3

 