WHITE PAPER

Framework for Effective
Board Governance of
Health System Quality
Content provided by:

Lucian Leape Institute, an initiative of the
Institute for Healthcare Improvement, guiding the
global patient safety community.

AN IHI RESOURCE

53 State Street, 19th Floor, Boston, MA 02109 • ihi.org
How to Cite This Paper: Daley Ullem E, Gandhi TK, Mate K, Whittington J, Renton M, Huebner J. Framework for Effective Board Governance
of Health System Quality. IHI White Paper. Boston, Massachusetts: Institute for Healthcare Improvement; 2018. (Available on ihi.org)

 AUTHORS:

Elizabeth Daley Ullem, MBA: Faculty Lead, IHI;
President, Quality and Safety First
Tejal K. Gandhi, MD, MPH, CPPS: Chief Clinical and Safety Officer,
IHI; President, IHI Lucian Leape Institute
Kedar Mate, MD: Chief Innovation and Education Officer, IHI
John Whittington, MD: Senior Fellow, IHI
Marina Renton: Research Assistant, IHI
Joellen Huebner: Senior Project Manager, IHI

Acknowledgments:
The authors are grateful to the IHI Lucian Leape Institute members, whose leadership identified the need for support for
trustees and health system leaders in governance of quality. We also thank the experts interviewed for this work and the
in-depth contributions of the expert group that developed and revised the framework and assessment tool, including
Kathryn C. Peisert, Managing Editor, The Governance Institute. This work was created through collaboration with many
leading health care and governance organizations, including the American Hospital Association, The Governance Institute,
and the American College of Healthcare Executives. Finally, the authors thank Jane Roessner and Val Weber of IHI for
their thoughtful editorial review of this white paper and the IHI thought leaders who, over the years, have advanced board
commitment to quality.
The Lucian Leape Institute is an initiative of IHI. This paper was generously funded by an unrestricted educational grant
from Medtronic, Inaugural Funder of the IHI Lucian Leape Institute. Medtronic had no control or influence over the
selection of experts, the content, or the views expressed in this paper.

For more than 25 years, the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) has used improvement science to advance and sustain better outcomes in health
and health systems across the world. We bring awareness of safety and quality to millions, accelerate learning and the systematic improvement of care,
develop solutions to previously intractable challenges, and mobilize health systems, communities, regions, and nations to reduce harm and deaths. We
work in collaboration with the growing IHI community to spark bold, inventive ways to improve the health of individuals and populations. We generate
optimism, harvest fresh ideas, and support anyone, anywhere who wants to profoundly change health and health care for the better.
The ideas and findings in these white papers represent innovative work by IHI and organizations with whom we collaborate. Our white papers are
designed to share the problems IHI is working to address, the ideas we are developing and testing to help organizations make breakthrough
improvements, and early results where they exist.

Copyright © 2018 Institute for Healthcare Improvement. All rights reserved. Individuals may photocopy these materials for educational, not-for-profit uses, provided that the
contents are not altered in any way and that proper attribution is given to IHI as the source of the content. These materials may not be reproduced for commercial, for-profit use in
any form or by any means, or republished under any circumstances, without the written permission of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement.

 Contents
Executive Summary

4

Background

5

Framework for Governance of Health System Quality

9

Governance of Quality Assessment:
A Roadmap for Board Oversight of Health System Quality

12

Governance of Quality Assessment (GQA) Tool

14

Using GQA Results to Plan Next Steps

21

Conclusion

22

Appendix A: Support Guides

23

Appendix B: IHI Lucian Leape Institute Expert Meeting Attendees

31

Appendix C: Members of the IHI Lucian Leape Institute

33

References

34

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

3

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Executive Summary
The Institute of Medicine (IOM) reports To Err Is Human and Crossing the Quality Chasm
prompted health care leaders to address the patient safety crisis and advance the systems,
teamwork, and improvement science needed to deliver safer care to patients.1,2 Following the IOM
reports, research on health care governance practices identified a correlation between health
system board prioritization of quality oversight and higher performance on key quality
indicators.3,4,5,6,7 Quality oversight by a board has been shown to correlate with patient outcomes
on key quality metrics, and boards that prioritize quality support a leadership commitment to
quality and the incentives and oversight to achieve the quality care that patients deserve.
Two main evolutions have made governing quality more complex for trustees and the health
system leaders who support them:
•

The definition of “quality” has evolved and expanded over the last decade, from a singular
focus on safety to an expanded focus on all six dimensions of quality as identified in the
Crossing the Quality Chasm report.

•

The expansion of health systems beyond hospital walls and the addition of population health
oversight have created complexity both in terms of what to govern to support high-quality
care and how to oversee quality outside of the traditional hospital setting and across the
health care continuum.

Many health system leaders have worked to ensure that their trustees are sufficiently prepared to
oversee quality, but the two factors noted above have increased the need for board education and
the time commitment for trustees and the health system senior leaders who support them.
Therefore, there is a need for a clear, actionable framework for better governance of quality across
all dimensions, including identification of the core processes and necessary activities for effective
governance of quality.
Ultimately, the most valuable resource of a board is time — both in terms of how much time they
allocate and how they use it — to engage in oversight of the various areas of governance. To help
health system leaders and boards use their governance time most effectively, this white paper
includes three components:
•

Framework for Governance of Health System Quality: A clear, actionable framework
for oversight of all the dimensions of quality;

•

Governance of Quality Assessment: A tool for trustees and health system leaders to
evaluate and score current quality oversight processes and assess progress in improving
board quality oversight over time; and

•

Three Support Guides: Three central knowledge area support guides for governance of
quality (Core Quality Knowledge, Core Improvement System Knowledge, and Board Culture
and Commitment to Quality), which health system leaders and governance educators can use
to advance their education for trustees.

The framework, assessment tool, and support guides aim to reduce variation in and clarify trustee
responsibilities for quality oversight, and also serve as practical tools for trustees and the health
system leaders who support them to govern quality in a way that will deliver better care to patients
and communities.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

4

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Background
Research on health care governance practices has identified a correlation between health system
board prioritization of quality oversight and higher performance on key quality indicators.8,9,10,11,12
However, guidance and practices for board oversight of the dimensions of quality beyond safety are
highly variable across health systems. Health system leaders and trustees are looking for greater
depth and clarity on what they should do to fulfill their oversight of quality. Governance of quality
is a long-overlooked and underutilized lever to deliver better care across all the dimensions of
quality.

What to Govern as Quality: Expanding from Safety to STEEEP
The IOM report Crossing the Quality Chasm established six aims for improvement, a framework
for health care quality in the US: care that is safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable, and patient
centered (STEEEP).13 Safety is an essential component of quality, and health leaders have become
more consistent in the governance of the elements of safety (though many health systems still do
not dedicate enough time to quality or are quick to push it to the bottom of the agenda).
Yet governance of the other STEEEP dimensions of quality beyond safety is significantly more
variable, providing an opportunity for greater clarity and calibration across the health care
organizations and leaders that guide governance of quality. Health system leaders and trustees
struggle with whether to govern a narrow definition of quality, driven by metrics defined by the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) or national oversight organizations, versus
governing quality’s broader dimensions as put forth in the IOM STEEEP framework.

What to Govern as Quality: Expansion and Complexity of Health
Systems
Health care leaders now look beyond the hospital walls to the entire system of care and to social
and community factors that impact health outcomes. Thus, health system quality has expanded to
include improving the health of communities and reducing the cost of health care and the financial
burden facing patients. As health care is increasingly delivered in a range of settings beyond the
hospital, from outpatient clinics to the home, leaders and trustees are challenged to define and
govern quality in these settings.
The nationwide shift in US health care from standalone and community hospitals to larger,
integrated care delivery systems has further increased the knowledge required for trustees to fulfill
their fiduciary responsibility of governing quality. Finally, by tying revenue to quality performance,
many payment models now add executive financial incentives to governance of quality. Health
leaders have struggled to frame governance of quality in the context of the expansion and
complexity of both single institutions and health systems.

Call to Action
In the 2017 report, Leading a Culture of Safety: A Blueprint for Success, board development and
engagement was highlighted as one of the “six leadership domains that require CEO focus and
dedication to develop and sustain a culture of safety.”14 According to the report, “The board is
responsible for making sure the correct oversight is in place, that quality and safety data are

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

5

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

systematically reviewed, and that safety receives appropriate attention as a standing agenda item at
all meetings.”
Building on this report, the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) Lucian Leape Institute
identified a need for greater understanding of the current state of governance of quality, education
on quality for health system trustees, along with the potential need for guidance and tools to
support governance oversight of quality. The IHI Lucian Leape Institute understood the
importance of developing this forward-thinking and cutting-edge content collaboratively with
leading governance organizations and making it available as a public good for all health systems
to access and incorporate in a way that would be most helpful to them.

Assessment of Current Governance Practices and Education
To evaluate the current state of board governance of quality, IHI employed its 90-day innovation
process.15 This work included the following:
•

A landscape scan to understand the current state of governance education offerings and
challenges in quality, drawing on national and state trustee education programs. This scan
included more than 50 interviews with governance experts, health system leaders, and
trustees; and a review of available trustee guides and assessments for governance of quality.

•

A scan of existing peer-reviewed research on board quality governance practices and
the link between board practices and quality outcomes for health systems.

•

An expert meeting (see Appendix B) attended by health care and governance experts. The
meeting provided critical insights and guidance for the work, including the development of a
framework for effective governance of health system quality. This group of thought leaders
included representatives from the American Hospital Association (AHA), the American
College of Healthcare Executives (ACHE), The Governance Institute, leading state hospital
associations, health system CEOs and trustees, and national governance and health care
quality experts.

Research and Landscape Scan Highlights
(Note: An in-depth assessment of the current state of board governance of quality and trustee
education in support of quality is available in the companion document to this white paper,
Research Summary: Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality.16)
The IHI Lucian Leape Institute’s research scan, evaluation of governance education in quality, and
expert interviews indicated that most trustee education on governance of quality focuses primarily
on safety, meaning that such education often does not prepare trustees for governing the other
dimensions of quality as defined by the STEEEP framework and the IHI Triple Aim,17 which also
considers population health and health care cost. In the boardroom, quality is often a lower
priority than financial oversight. Epstein and Jha found that “quality performance was on the
agenda at every board meeting in 63 percent of US hospitals, and financial performance was
always on the agenda in 93 percent of hospitals.”18
Our interviews indicated that the financial and cultural implications of poor quality of care are not
often formally considered, noting a difference between putting quality on a board meeting agenda
and having a dedicated discussion about quality. Many trustees, while motivated to ensure highquality care, lack a clear understanding of the necessary activities for effective quality oversight

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

6

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

(the “what” and “how” of their governance work); IHI’s research identified the need for more
direction on the core processes for governance of quality.19 Some trustees noted that they were at
the mercy of the quality data and information presented to them by their organization’s leadership
team; they lacked ways of confirming that their quality work was aligned with work at other
leading health care organizations and industry best practice.
Health care leaders observed that the many guides and assessments they referenced often had
varying recommendations for core governance activities on quality, especially for dimensions of
quality beyond safety. We analyzed the available board guides or tools for board members and
hospital leaders to evaluate their quality governance activities. The review of existing assessments
from national and state governance support organizations identified that many focus on board
prioritization of quality in terms of time spent and trustee “commitment” to governance based on a
trustee self-assessment. Many assessments offer specific recommendations for key processes to
oversee safety, such as reviewing serious events and key safety metrics in a dashboard. However,
most assessments offer more variable guidance on the core processes to govern the STEEEP
dimensions of quality beyond safety, quality outside of the hospital setting, and overall health in
the communities the health systems serve.
With so many assessments and guidance recommending different processes and activities, it is not
surprising that those who support trustees struggle to clearly define the core work of board quality
oversight. Trustees and health care leaders alike identified a need for a simple framework that sets
forth the activities that boards need to perform in their oversight of quality and for calibration
across governance support organizations to support a simple, consistent framework.

Barriers to Governance of Quality
The IHI research team sought to understand and identify ways to address the many barriers to
governance of quality identified in interviews and the published literature. The most common
barrier identified was trustees’ available time to contribute to a volunteer board. Often, health care
leaders and trustees identified that expectations for trustee engagement on quality issues are not
presented with the same clarity and priority as financial and philanthropic expectations for
governance. Many interviewees noted that trustees are less confident in the governance of quality
because of its clinical nature, which, in many cases, necessitates learning new terminology and
absorbing concepts unfamiliar to trustees without a clinical background.
Many trustees and health care leaders we interviewed identified the CEO as the “gatekeeper” for
the board, stewarding access to external resources and guidelines related to the board’s role in
health care quality, often not wanting to overwhelm or burden the trustees, given the demands on
their time. However, even when the trustees and health care leaders interviewed indicated that
they did have dedicated time and commitment to quality, they were not clear as to whether the
specific set of processes or activities they currently had in place were the best ones for effective
governance of quality.
Based on insights from IHI’s research, landscape scan of current guidance on quality oversight,
and extensive interviews, a new framework for governance of quality was created through a
collaborative effort of thought leaders and health system leaders to provide clarity, support, and
reduced variation in what boards should consider for their oversight of quality. The framework
identifies the foundational knowledge of core quality concepts and the need to understand the
systems for quality control and improvement used in health systems. The framework also
recognizes that board culture and commitment to quality are essential.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

7

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

A new Governance of Quality Assessment identifies the core processes of board governance of
quality, providing a tool for boards and health system leaders to calibrate the governance oversight
work plan. When these core processes are approached consistently, organizations can advance
governance of quality that, based on previously cited studies, will support the health system’s
performance on quality.

Current State of Board Work and Education in Health System Quality
• Governance of quality is primarily focused on safety.
Board education in quality is available but inconsistently accessed by trustees;
education focuses primarily on safety, with variable exposure to other dimensions
of quality.
• Governance of quality is hospital-centric, with limited focus on population
or community health.
Most board education emphasizes in-hospital quality; it does not guide boards in
oversight of care in other health system settings or in the health of the community.
• Core processes for governance of quality core are variable.
Board quality educational support offerings tend to emphasize general engagement in
the form of time, structure, and leadership commitment to quality governance; they
focus less on the specific activities (especially beyond safety) and core processes
trustees need to employ to oversee quality.
• A clear, consistent framework for governance of health system quality
is needed.
Utilizing a consistent framework and assessment tool for key board-specific processes
for quality oversight will help improve governance of health system quality and deliver
on patient and community expectations for quality care.
• A call to action to raise expectations and improve support for board
governance of health system quality is needed.
A multifaceted approach is needed to break through the barriers to trustee oversight of
quality, including a greater call to action, clearer set of core processes with an
assessment of that work, and raised expectations for time to govern quality.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

8

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Framework for Governance of Health System
Quality
Achieving better quality care in health systems requires a complex and multifaceted partnership
among health care providers, payers, patients, and caregivers. The IHI Lucian Leape Institute’s
research scan, evaluation of governance education in quality, and expert interviews made it clear
that board members, and those who support them, desire a clear and consistent framework to
guide core quality knowledge, expectations, and activities to better govern quality. To help make
progress in this area, the IHI Lucian Leape Institute convened leading governance organizations,
health industry thought leaders, and trustees (see Appendix B) to collaboratively develop a new
comprehensive framework and assessment tool for governance of quality.
The framework and assessment tool are designed with the following considerations:
•

Simplify concepts: Use simple, trustee-friendly language that defines actionable processes
and activities for trustees and those who support them to oversee quality.

•

Incorporate all six STEEEP dimensions of quality: Understand quality as care that is
safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable, and patient centered (STEEEP), as defined by the
Institute of Medicine.

•

Include community health and value: Ensure that population health and health care
value are critical elements of quality oversight.

•

Govern quality in and out of the hospital setting: Advance quality governance
throughout the health system, not solely in the hospital setting.

•

Advance organizational improvement knowledge: Support trustees in understanding
the ways to evaluate, prioritize, and improve performance on dimensions of quality.

•

Identify the key attributes of a governance culture of quality: Describe the elements
of a board culture and commitment to high-quality, patient-centered, equitable care.

IHI worked with the expert group to establish an aspirational vision for trustees: With the ideal
education in and knowledge of quality concepts, every trustee will be able to respond to three
statements in the affirmative (see Figure 1).
Figure 1. Vision of Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

9

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Having established the vision, the expert group proceeded to define the core knowledge and core
processes necessary to realize this vision, resulting in the development of a Framework for
Governance of Health System Quality (see Figure 2).
Figure 2. Framework for Governance of Health System Quality

At the heart of the framework [CENTER] is the Governance of Quality Assessment (GQA), which
outlines the key processes and activities that, if well performed, enable trustees to achieve the
vision of effective board governance of quality [RIGHT]. The GQA serves as both a roadmap of
the key processes the board should undertake to oversee all dimensions of quality, and an
assessment of how well the board is doing with respect to those processes.
The expert group also identified three core knowledge areas [LEFT] that support the effective
execution of the core processes and activities outlined in the GQA: Core Quality Knowledge, Core
Improvement System Knowledge, and Board Culture and Commitment to Quality. The expert
group’s suggestions for core knowledge are assembled into three support guides (see Appendix A).
Together, the GQA and the three support guides aim to reduce variation in current governance
recommendations and practices and to establish a comprehensive framework for the core
knowledge and key activities for fiduciary governance of quality. Health system leadership and
governance educators can use these tools to calibrate and advance their educational materials for
trustees and develop ongoing education.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

10

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Patient-Centered Depiction of Quality
The expert group supported the use of a patient-centered framework, like the one introduced at
Nationwide Children’s Hospital in Ohio,20 to display the core components of quality and drive
home the direct impact they have on care. There is a compelling case for conveying this
information to the board using a patient lens, as trustees may find the patient perspective on
quality more motivating and actionable than the STEEEP terminology.
This reframed model also bundles some elements of STEEEP together in a way that represents the
patient journey and avoids some of the health care terminology that can be off-putting to trustees.
For example, the STEEEP dimensions of timely and efficient care are combined into “Help Me
Navigate My Care.” The STEEEP dimensions of equitable and patient-centered care are aggregated
into “Treat Me with Respect.” Figure 3 presents a visual representation of the core components of
quality from the patient’s perspective, with the patient at the center of the delivery system.
Figure 3. Core Components of Quality from the Patient’s Perspective

The new framework and assessment tool will reveal areas for quality improvement to many CEOs
and board members. It will take time for board members and health system leaders to incorporate
those additional elements of quality into their agendas and work plans, but the changes will help to
better align their quality oversight with patient expectations and the evolution, expansion, and
complexity of health care delivery. Maintaining the status quo with regard to quality governance
will not best serve patients or health systems, which face increasing complexity of patient-,
population-, and community-based care in the coming years.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

11

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Governance of Quality Assessment: A
Roadmap for Board Oversight of Health
System Quality
The Governance of Quality Assessment (GQA) serves as both a roadmap of the key processes
the board should undertake to oversee all dimensions of quality, and an assessment of how
well the board is doing with respect to those processes. The GQA employs a set of concrete
recommendations for 30 core processes of quality oversight organized into six categories, and
provides a high-level assessment of board culture, structure, and commitment. The resulting GQA
scores (for each core process, each category, and overall total) provide a roadmap for health care
leaders and trustees to identify what to do in their work plan — and to assess their progress over
time.
Most current board assessments primarily cover elements of safety, patient satisfaction, and/or
board culture related to quality oversight. Most assessments do not identify the specific processes
for quality oversight beyond safety and do not equally address all the dimensions of quality,
including population health and care provided outside of the hospital. Variation across
assessments may create confusion among trustees about what really is optimal in the oversight of
quality.
The GQA aims to ensure that health system board quality oversight extends beyond the hospital to
include the entire continuum of care. While many trustees understand concepts and frameworks
like STEEEP and the IHI Triple Aim, they often have difficulty translating those concepts into
specific activities they must perform. The GQA is specific, actionable, and tracks the processes that
enable excellent quality governance. The GQA is designed for trustees and those who support
them; it is written in straightforward, actionable, and trustee-centered language.

GQA Core Processes and Scoring
The Governance of Quality Assessment provides a snapshot of a total of 30 core processes
organized into six categories that a board with fiduciary oversight needs to perform to properly
oversee quality. The 30 core processes were developed by the expert group based on their expert
opinions combined with insights gathered from more than 50 additional interviews of governance
experts and health executives in the research and assessment phase of this work.
As referenced in the companion research summary to this white paper,21 there are limited
evidence-based recommendations on core processes for governance of quality beyond a few
structural recommendations such as time spent, use of a dashboard, and having a dedicated quality
committee. The GQA puts forth a set of core processes for governance of quality that were
collaboratively developed, evaluated, and ranked at the expert meeting.
The GQA should be utilized by health systems and results tracked over time to validate the
assessment’s effectiveness. Certainly, there are additional quality oversight actions a board could
undertake (and many already do) beyond those identified in the GQA. However, the expert group
and interviewees identified the core processes in the GQA as a starting point for calibration and
improvement. With a commitment to learning and improvement, and in recognition of the
dynamic nature of health care, the GQA should also be revised as appropriate to incorporate the
insights from new research in the boardroom.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

12

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

The GQA includes a scoring system (0, 1, or 2) for trustees and health system leaders to assess the
current level of performance for the 30 core processes, the six categories, and overall. Scores are
totaled so that trustees and health care leaders can establish baseline scores (for each process,
category, and overall) and then track their progress over time.

Bringing the GQA to the Boardroom
Health system CEOs should complete the GQA annually with their board chair and quality
committee chair(s) and/or quality committee to establish a baseline for assessing their current
state of oversight of quality; to identify opportunities for improvement; and to track their GQA
scores over time as a measure of improving board quality oversight. It is also useful to have the
senior leaders who interface with the board complete the GQA to understand and assess their role
with respect to trustee oversight of quality.
Once the respondents have completed the GQA, senior leaders and trustees may choose to focus on
the lowest-scoring areas to identify improvement strategies. Within larger health systems, the GQA
is a useful tool to evaluate the work of multiple quality committees and create a system-wide work
plan and strategies for board oversight of quality. We recommend that boards complete the GQA
annually to monitor their performance and progress.
The GQA can also be used to guide discussions about which activities should be conducted at
which level of governance in the case of complex systems (e.g., which processes are or should be
covered in local boards, the system quality committee, and/or the overall health system board). In
addition, the assessment can be used as a tool for discussion in setting agenda items for the board
or quality committees.
Finally, governance educators might also use the assessment to help design their educational
sessions for board members, targeting educational content to the areas where the clients need
more support or education.
The expert group also recommended that the assessment tool be utilized for future research to
compare how systems are performing relative to each other, collecting data longitudinally to
identify which elements of the GQA are most correlated with various components of quality
performance and other metrics of culture and management known to be associated with
excellence.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

13

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Governance of Quality Assessment (GQA)
Tool
This assessment tool was developed to support trustees and senior leaders of health systems in
their oversight of quality of care by defining the core processes, culture, and commitment for
excellence in oversight of quality. A guiding principle in the development of this assessment was
for the board to view their role in quality oversight comprehensively in terms of the Institute of
Medicine STEEEP dimensions (care that is safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable, and patient
centered) and the IHI Triple Aim.
The Governance of Quality Assessment (GQA) tool should be used to evaluate the current level of
performance for 30 core processes in six categories, to identify areas of oversight of quality that
need greater attention or improvement, and to track progress over time.

Instructions
The Governance of Quality Assessment organizes the health system board’s quality oversight role
into six categories that include a total of 30 core processes a board with fiduciary oversight should
perform to effectively oversee quality.
Health system CEOs should complete the GQA annually with their board chair and quality
committee chair(s) and/or quality committee.
For each item in the assessment, the person completing the assessment should indicate a score of
0, 1, or 2. Scores are then totaled for each category and overall.

Score

Description

0

No activity: The process is not currently performed by the board, or I am
unaware of our work in or commitment to this area.

1

Infrequent practice: The board currently does some work in this area, but not
extensively, routinely, or frequently.

2

Board priority: The board currently does this process well — regularly and
with thought and depth.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

14

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Governance of Quality Assessment Tool (continued)
Category 1: Prioritize Quality: Board Quality Culture and Commitment
Core Board Process

Score
(0, 1, or 2)

Process leads to a:

1. Board establishes quality as a priority
on the main board agenda (e.g.,
equivalent time spent on quality and
finance), and time spent on quality
reflects board commitment.

Executive committee/governing board
that spends a minimum of 20% to
25% of meeting time on quality

2. Health system senior leaders provide
initial and ongoing in-depth education
on quality and improvement systems
to all trustees and quality committee
members, and clearly articulate board
fiduciary responsibility for quality
oversight and leadership.

Board that understands the definition
of quality, key concepts, and the
system of improvement used within
the organization

3. Board receives materials on quality
before board meetings that are
appropriately summarized and in a
level of detail for the board to
understand the concepts and engage
as thought partners.

Board that is prepared for quality
oversight and engaged in key areas
for discussion

4. Board reviews the annual quality and
safety plan, reviews performance on
quality metrics, and sets improvement
aims.

Board that takes responsibility for
quality and performance on quality

5. Board ties leadership performance
incentives to performance on key
quality dimensions.

Board that establishes compensation
incentives for senior leaders linked to
prioritizing safe, high-quality care

6. Board conducts rounds at the point of
care or visits the health system and
community to hear stories directly
from patients and caregivers to
incorporate the diverse perspectives
of the populations served.

Board that sets the tone throughout
the organization for a culture of
teamwork, respect, and transparency
and demonstrates an in-person,
frontline, board-level commitment to
quality

7. Board asks questions about gaps,
trends, and priority issues related to
quality and is actively engaged in
discussions about quality.

Board that engages in generative
discussion about quality improvement
work and resource allocation

Agenda that reflects board oversight
of and commitment to quality

Category 1 Total Score:
(14 possible)

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

15

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Governance of Quality Assessment Tool (continued)
Category 2: Keep Me Safe: Safe Care
Core Board Process

Score
(0, 1, or 2)

Process leads to a:

1. Board regularly tracks and discusses
performance over time on key safety
metrics (including both in-hospital
safety and safety in other settings of
care).

Board that reviews management
performance on key safety metrics
and holds management
accountable for areas where
performance needs to be improved

2. Board annually reviews management’s
summary of the financial impact of poor
quality on payments and liability costs.

Board that understands the
financial costs of poor safety
performance

3. Board evaluates management’s
summary of incident reporting trends
and timeliness to ensure transparency
to identify and address safety issues.

Board that holds management
accountable to support staff in
sharing safety concerns to create a
safe environment of care for
patients and staff

4. Board reviews Serious Safety Events
(including workforce safety) in a timely
manner, ensuring that leadership has a
learning system to share the root
cause findings, learning, and
improvements.

Board that holds management
accountable for a timely response
to harm events and learning from
harm

5. Board reviews management summary
of their culture of safety survey or
teamwork/safety climate survey to
evaluate variations and understand
management’s improvement strategies
for improving psychological safety,
teamwork, and workforce engagement.

Board that holds management
accountable for building and
supporting a culture of
psychological safety that values
willingness to speak up as
essential to patient care and a
collaborative workplace

6. Board reviews required regulatory
compliance survey results and
recommendations for improvement.

Board that performs its required
national (e.g., CMS, Joint
Commission, organ donation) and
state regulatory compliance
oversight

Category 2 Total Score:
(12 possible)

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

16

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Governance of Quality Assessment Tool (continued)
Category 3: Provide Me with the Right Care: Effective Care
Core Board Process

Score
(0, 1, or 2)

Process leads to a:

1. Board ensures that the clinician
credentialing process addresses
concerns about behavior,
performance, or volume and is
calibrated across the health system.

Board that understands its fiduciary
responsibility of credentialing
oversight to ensure the talent and
culture to deliver effective patient
care

2. Board reviews trends and drivers of
effective and appropriate care as
defined for the different areas of the
system’s care.

Board that holds leadership
accountable to ensure that the
system does not underuse,
overuse, or misuse care

3. Board evaluates senior leaders’
summary of metrics to ensure
physician and staff ability to care for
patients (e.g., physician and staff
engagement, complaint trends, staff
turnover, burnout metrics, violence).

Board that holds senior leaders
accountable for the link between
staff engagement and wellness with
the ability to provide effective
patient care

4. Board establishes a measure of health
care affordability and tracks this
measure, in addition to patient medical
debt, over time.

Board that understands that cost is
a barrier for patients, and that
health systems are accountable to
the community to ensure affordable
care

Category 3 Total Score:
(8 possible)

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

17

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Governance of Quality Assessment Tool (continued)
Category 4: Treat Me with Respect: Equitable and Patient-Centered Care
Core Board Process

Score
(0, 1, or 2)

Process leads to a:

1. Board has patient representation,
patient stories, and/or interaction with
patient and family councils, and
engagement with community
advocates at every board and quality
committee meeting.

Board that connects its quality
oversight role with direct patient
experiences to build understanding
of issues and connection to
patients

2. Board reviews patient-reported
complaints and trends in patient
experience and loyalty that indicate
areas where respectful patient care is
not meeting system standards.

Board that reviews senior
leadership’s approach to
evaluating, prioritizing, and
responding to patient concerns and
values a patient’s willingness to
recommend future care

3. Board evaluates and ensures diversity
and inclusion at all levels of the
organization, including the board,
senior leadership, staff, providers, and
vendors that support the health
system.

Board that supports and advances
building a diverse and culturally
respectful team to serve patients

4. Board reviews the health system’s
approach to disclosure following
occurrences of harm to patients and
understands the healing, learning, and
financial and reputational benefit of
transparency after harm occurs.

Board that understands the link
between transparency with
patients after harm occurs and a
culture of learning and
improvement in the health system

5. Board ensures that all patient
populations, especially the most
vulnerable, are provided effective care
by evaluating variations in care
outcomes for key conditions or service
lines based on race, gender, ethnicity,
language, socioeconomic status/payer
type, and age.

Board that holds senior leaders
accountable for health equity
(making sure all patients receive
the same quality of care) and
prioritizes closing the gaps in
outcomes that are identified as
disparities in care

Category 4 Total Score:
(10 possible)

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

18

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Governance of Quality Assessment Tool (continued)
Category 5: Help Me Navigate My Care: Timely and Efficient Care
Core Board Process

Score
(0, 1, or 2)

Process leads to a:

1. Board reviews metrics related to
access to care at all points in the
system (e.g., hospital, clinics,
behavioral health, nursing home,
home care, dental) and ensures that
access is equitable and timely for all
patients.

Board that oversees senior
leadership’s strategy to improve
care access (e.g., time and ability to
get an appointment, wait time for
test results, delays) for all patients

2. Board reviews senior leadership’s
strategy for and measurement of
patient flow, timeliness, and transitions
of care, and evaluates leadership’s
improvement priorities.

Board that evaluates the complexity
of care navigation for patients and
monitors senior leadership’s work to
integrate care, reduce barriers, and
coordinate care (e.g., delays,
patient flow issues) to support
patients

3. Board evaluates senior leadership’s
strategy for digital integration and
security of patient clinical information
and its accessibility and portability to
support patient care.

Board that holds senior leaders
accountable for a strategy to
support patients’ digital access,
security, and portability of clinical
information

Category 5 Total Score:
(6 possible)

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

19

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Governance of Quality Assessment Tool (continued)
Category 6: Help Me Stay Well: Community and Population Health and Wellness
Core Board Process

1. Board reviews community health
needs assessment and senior
leadership’s plans for community and
population health improvement.

Score
(0, 1, or 2)

Process leads to a:

Board that oversees the
development of a community health
needs assessment and has
identified which population health
metrics are most relevant to track
for its patients (e.g., asthma,
diabetes, stroke, cancer screening,
flu vaccine, dental, prenatal, opioid
overuse, obesity, depression
screening)
Board holds senior leaders
accountable for reaching goals
established to improve key
community health issues

2. Board reviews performance in riskbased contracts for population health.

Board that evaluates performance
on risk-based contracts for
populations and strategies for
improvement

3. Board evaluates approach to
integration and continuity of care for
behavioral health patients.

Board that holds senior leaders
accountable for integrating care and
tracking care coordination data to
support screening, access, and
follow-up

4. Board reviews leadership’s plans to
address social determinants of
health, including any plans for
integration with social and community
services.

Board that understands the essential
nature of wraparound services to
support the wellness of certain
patient populations and oversees
the strategic integration with those
service providers

5. Board evaluates the health system’s
strategy for supporting patients with
medically and socially complex needs
and with advance care planning.

Board that ensures senior leaders
evaluate high-utilization groups and
key drivers to help those users
navigate and manage their care

Category 6 Total Score:
(10 possible)

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

20

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Total Score for This Assessment:
(sum of total scores for Categories 1 through 6)

Total Possible Score:

60

Interpreting the Overall Governance of Quality Assessment Score
Total Score

Board Performance Level

40 to 60

Advanced board commitment to quality

25 to 40

Standard board commitment to quality

25 or Fewer

Developing board commitment to quality

Using GQA Results to Plan Next Steps
After completing the Governance of Quality Assessment, the CEO, board chair, and board quality
chair(s) should review the results and use them as the basis for planning next steps.
•

Review the spectrum of GQA scores: Are the results similar across your board and
committees? Compare the variation of scores across your board, quality committee(s), and
senior leaders. If there is high variation in scores, it may be an opportunity to consider
clarifying expectations and the work plan for quality oversight.

•

Aggregate GQA scores to identify areas for improvement: Aggregating the GQA
scores (overall and for each category) establishes a baseline score to evaluate the current
areas of oversight and identify opportunities to better oversee the dimensions of quality that
have lower scores. Could the board agenda or work plan be adjusted to make time to address
other quality items (i.e., those with low GQA scores)?

•

Set a target GQA score for next year: Set a target and a plan for improving the GQA
score annually. Focus on the elements of the GQA where you have the greatest gap or that are
of the most strategic importance to your organization.

We recommend that boards and leadership teams also evaluate time spent discussing quality and
trustee confidence in their knowledge of basic quality concepts in tandem with the GQA.
•

Evaluate time allocation to quality: Track how much time the board spends each
meeting discussing quality. Does the time commitment indicate that quality has equal priority
in time and attention with finance? Is quality just an item on the agenda without discussion?

•

Use the GQA to identify board education opportunities: Review both the initial
education and the ongoing education of board members on quality. What topics in the
framework and GQA are not covered? Do you provide trustees with supplementary reading,
useful articles, and educational opportunities in the areas identified in the GQA?

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

21

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Conclusion
Excellence in quality must be supported from the bedside to the boardroom; patients deserve
nothing less. Health system boards are deeply committed to the patients and communities they
serve; however, trustees often require support in order to best understand and fulfill their fiduciary
responsibility and commitment to the patients and communities they serve. Trustee knowledge of
quality and improvement concepts is essential to their governance role. To be effective, trustees
must also pair this knowledge with an effective board culture and a clear set of activities that
support oversight of quality.
The framework, assessment tool, and support guides presented in this white paper were created
through collaboration with leaders in health care and governance. The immediate goal of these
resources is to reduce variation in board oversight of quality and to provide an improved roadmap
for health system trustees. The ultimate goal is to ensure that oversight of quality of care for all
patients is supported by more effective board education in quality concepts, clarity of core
processes for trustee governance of quality, and a deeper board commitment to quality.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

22

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Appendix A: Support Guides
The expert group identified three core knowledge areas for effective governance of quality: first, a
familiarity with all dimensions of quality; second, an understanding of how improvement occurs in
systems; and third, an appreciation of the importance of demonstrating a commitment to quality
through the board culture.
Appendix A includes support guides for these three core knowledge areas:
•

Support Guide: Core Quality Knowledge

•

Support Guide: Core Improvement System Knowledge

•

Support Guide: Board Culture and Commitment to Quality

Support Guide: Core Quality Knowledge
The medical terms, health care oversight organizations and processes, and clinical concepts that
arise in quality work are often unfamiliar to board members without a medical background, unlike
other areas of oversight such as finance. Initial and ongoing education in quality concepts is
essential to providing trustees with the necessary context and knowledge for thoughtful
engagement.
This support guide is designed to guide hospital leaders and trustee educators in taking the
guesswork out of the core quality concepts that are needed to prepare trustees for governance of
quality across all dimensions and all care settings.
The expert group recommended providing governance education to trustees via a simple, patientcentered framework, just as the Governance of Quality Assessment consolidates and clarifies core
board processes for governance of quality from the STEEEP dimensions of quality into a patientcentered framework. See Figure 3 (above), which presents the patient at the center of governance
quality work, a visual that the expert group found compelling.
All new trustees, not just quality committee members, need to receive a thorough introduction to
quality. To oversee quality, board members need fluency in many concepts, which should be
introduced in a layered manner (similar to building a scaffold) to avoid overwhelming trustees. An
overarching framework that shows how all these elements are necessary for patient care helps
connect the dots and build commitment.
Table 1 presents the foundational concepts for board oversight of quality recommended by the
expert group, organized by the STEEEP dimensions of quality (care that is safe, timely, effective,
efficient, equitable, and patient centered) represented through a patient lens.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

23

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Table 1. Foundational Concepts for Board Core Quality Knowledge

Quality
Concept

Key Questions

Suggested Educational
Concepts

Basic Quality
Overview

•
•

•
•

•
•

What is quality in health care?
What are the benefits of
quality?
What are the costs of poor
quality?
Who oversees the elements of
quality in our organization?

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Keep Me Safe
Safe

•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•

What is safety?
What is a culture of safety?
What are surveys of patient
safety culture?
What is “harm”?
What are the types of harm?
How do you decide if an
adverse outcome is
preventable harm?
How do we learn about harm
in a timely manner?
What is our response to harm
(i.e., what actions do we take
when harm occurs)?
What are the financial and
reputational costs of harm?
How do we reduce, learn from,
and prevent harm?
How do we track harm in our
system and in the industry?

•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•
•

Brief overview of quality in health care
STEEEP dimensions of quality
presented through a patient lens
IHI Triple Aim
Benefits of quality
“Cost” of poor quality: Financial,
patients, staff
Quality strategy, quality management
Overview of risk-/value-based care
Structures for quality reporting,
assessment, and improvement
Structure for CEO/leadership
evaluation
Preventable harm vs. adverse outcome
Just Culture and culture of safety
Science of error prevention and high
reliability
Classification of the types of harm
Knowing about harm: Incident
reporting, claims, grievances
Response to harm: Root cause
analysis/adverse event review, patient
apology and disclosure, legal, learning
systems
Costs of harm: Claims/lawsuits,
penalties, ratings, reputational, human
emotional impact
Harm terminology: HAC, SSI, falls,
ADE, employee safety, etc.
Regulatory oversight of safety

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

24

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Quality
Concept

Key Questions

Suggested Educational
Concepts

Provide Me with
the Right Care

•

How do we ensure that our
health system properly
diagnoses and cares for
patients to the best evidencebased standards in medicine?
How does leadership oversee
whether approaches to care
vary within our system?
How do we identify the areas
where care is not to our
standards?
How do we identify the areas
where care is meeting or
exceeding our standards?
How do we attract and retain
talent to care for patients?

•
•

How do we evaluate patients’
satisfaction and feedback?
What is “equitable care” and
how do we evaluate it?
Do some patient groups have
worse outcomes? Why?
What is our staff diversity and
how may it impact patient
care?
How do we ensure that
patients are partners in their
care?
How do we reduce cost of
care?
How do we track medical debt
for patient groups?

•

What do care navigation and
care access mean?
What issues result from
waiting for care or
disconnected care (care that is
not timely or efficient)?
Which populations have more
complex care needs? What do
we do to help them navigate
care?
What is the role of a portable
medical record and health IT in
supporting care navigation?

•

Effective
•

•

•

•

Treat Me with
Respect
Equitable and
Patient centered

•
•
•
•

•

•
•

Help Me
Navigate My
Care

•
•

Timely and
Efficient
•

•

•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•

Evidence-based medicine
Overview of staff and physician
recruitment, credentials/privileges,
training, retention (burnout, turnover,
violence)
Overview of standard of care concept
and issues/processes that lead to
variation
Trends in care utilization and clinical
outcomes
Key care outcomes to be evaluated
through an equity lens: race, ethnicity,
gender, language, and socioeconomic
status

Patient satisfaction and patient
grievances (e.g., HCAHPS22)
Patient-centered care
Care affordability, debt burden
Social determinants of health
Pricing and affordability of care
bundles
Total costs of care for conditions
Medical debt concerns/trends
Value-based payment models

Care access, efficiency, and drivers of
care navigation
Define “continuum of care”
Focus on key areas that are
“roadblocks” in care navigation and
their drivers
Define electronic health record, health
IT, and the systems to support and
secure patient information and patient
access

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

25

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Quality
Concept

Key Questions

Suggested Educational
Concepts

Help Me Stay
Well

•

•

Community and
Population Health
and Wellness

•

•

•

What is the difference between
population and patient health?
How do we segment patient
populations to evaluate
population health outcomes?
What unique strategies do/can
we deploy to care for and
engage areas or populations
with worse health outcomes?
How are we compensated (or
not) for population health and
wellness?

•
•
•
•

Define population health vs. patient
health23
Explain the community health needs
assessment (CHNA)
Interpret population health, prevention,
and wellness metrics
Define social determinants of health
Explain fee-based vs. risk-based
contracts

This support guide can be used as a starting point for hospital leaders and educators to create their
system’s board education plan, to ensure the concepts are imparted across the dimensions of
health care quality to trustees. Health systems will vary in terms of which concepts need to be
introduced to all trustees versus only to those who serve on the quality committee. That said,
absorbing all these concepts at once would be overwhelming, so teaching the concepts in smaller
segments over time is essential, as is reinforcing the concepts with additional learning
opportunities and available resources, particularly as new members join the board.
It is also worthwhile to consider different formats for teaching these concepts to various audiences
such as a half-day retreat, a full-day education session, or in-depth hour-long programs offered
throughout the year. Finally, consider how the concepts should be introduced to new trustees and
reinforced for experienced trustees to support a common knowledge base.
Just as most trustees join a board with a conversation about what they can contribute in time,
treasure, and talent to support the organization, perhaps there can also be a “learn” expectation to
identify the need for continuous growth and learning, even as a trustee, to advance a culture of
improvement and quality excellence.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

26

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Support Guide: Core Improvement System Knowledge
A 2016 IHI White Paper, Sustaining Improvement, identified the drivers of quality control and
quality improvement in high-performing organizations and highlighted that boards play an
essential role in creating a culture of quality care and quality improvement.24 Quality knowledge
for trustees must include a deep understanding of and comfort with how health system leaders will
identify, assess, and improve the elements of care delivery.
Organizations might take many approaches to improvement — from Total Quality Management, to
Lean, to high reliability, to the Model for Improvement. Trustees need to understand their health
system’s improvement methodology and ensure that the health system has the people, processes,
and infrastructure to support its improvement efforts.
Trustees might ask health system leaders the following discussion questions to gain an
understanding of the organization’s improvement system:
•

What is the organization’s system of improvement, in terms of both evaluating performance
and prioritizing areas for improvement?

•

How were major quality improvement efforts selected in the last two years? What criteria
were used and evaluated to measure their impact?

•

How does quality improvement cover the entire health system versus in-hospital
improvement only?

•

What analytic methods do leaders use to gather insight from the entire system to inform
improvement initiatives? What are the gaps in the information and analytics?

•

Recognizing that quality improvement is most sustainable when frontline staff members are
engaged, how do senior leaders ensure that frontline staff lead quality improvement work, are
actively providing ideas for improvement, and are willing and encouraged to speak up?

Health care leaders may educate board members on their organization’s improvement system in
many ways. For example:
•

Virginia Mason Health System board members travel to Japan to learn about the Toyota
Production System and Lean principles that Virginia Mason also employs.25

•

The pediatric improvement network called Solutions for Patient Safety dedicates significant
effort to board education on their high-reliability method of improvement and the board’s
role in understanding the core knowledge of safety and analyzing performance. 26

•

The board at St. Mary’s General Hospital in Kitchener, Ontario, “sought out new knowledge
about Lean through board education sessions, recruited new members with expertise in Lean
and sent more than half of the board to external site visits to observe a high-performing Lean
healthcare organization.”27

Boards must understand how health system leaders perform the functions of quality planning,
quality control, and quality improvement throughout the organization — and how that quality
work is prioritized and resources are allocated. A 2015 article describes the process that Johns
Hopkins Medicine undertook to ensure that the health system could map accountability for quality
improvement throughout the organization, from the point of care to the board quality committee.28
Similarly, in an article for The Governance Institute’s BoardRoom Press, leaders from Main Line

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

27

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Health shared their effort to delineate the flow and tasks of the oversight of quality from the
boardroom to the frontline operations.29 While the Johns Hopkins and Main Line Health
approaches are unique to their systems, the essential idea they advanced is that a board and
leadership should define the components of quality improvement work in their system and identify
the accountability for those components throughout the system.
In addition to understanding accountability for quality throughout a health system, it is also
essential for trustees to develop analytical skills to review data and engage meaningfully with
leadership in generative dialogue about trends in the data. As part of their quality oversight role,
health system boards need to understand the organization’s key metrics and periodically review
areas of performance that are outside of or below established expectations.
Also, educational training for trustees should teach them how to review data over time and request
that data be benchmarked against other leading organizations to help them evaluate improvement
opportunities. In IHI’s interviews, some trustees noted that the way data are presented often
impacts their ability to gain insights to oversee and engage leaders in discussions on quality
performance and progress of quality improvement efforts.
In her work with health system trustees, Maureen Bisognano, IHI President Emerita and Senior
Fellow, challenges boards that they should be able to answer four analytic questions pertaining to
quality:30
1.

Do you know how good you are as an organization?

2. Do you know where your variation exists?
3. Do you know where you stand relative to the best?
4. Do you know your rate of improvement over time?
A board that understands management’s system of improvement and is analytically capable of
tracking performance will be able to confidently answer those four questions. The board plays a
critical role in holding health system leaders accountable for improvement results and should be a
thought partner in the system’s quality improvement efforts. Understanding the system of
improvement and the ways in which an organization identifies and prioritizes areas for
improvement is an essential function of quality governance.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

28

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Support Guide: Board Culture and Commitment to Quality
A board that understands quality concepts and the organization’s system of improvement may still
be unable to fulfill its commitment to safe, high-quality, and equitable patient care if it does not
also have a culture of commitment to quality and a structure that ensures that the quality functions
are effectively carried out. Essential elements of board culture and commitment to quality are
incorporated in the Governance of Quality Assessment in recognition that a board that governs
quality must not only know the key processes to oversee quality, but also oversee them in a way
that demonstrates a cultural commitment to quality.
Many individuals and organizations have contributed thought leadership on building a culture for
governance of quality in health care, including leading governance experts (such as Jim Conway,
James Reinertsen, Larry Prybil, and James Orlikoff), The Governance Institute, the American
Hospital Association, and a few leading state hospital associations. With guidance from the expert
group, this support guide focuses on elements of governance culture, structure, and commitment
that are unique to supporting trustee oversight of and engagement in quality.
The expert group identified five high-level attributes of board culture and commitment to quality,
as described below.

Set Expectations and Prioritize Quality
Quality needs to be a priority for all board members, not completely delegated to the quality
committee(s), even if the quality committee is doing more of the oversight. Quality is demonstrated
as a board priority in many ways, including dedicating time to engage in discussion about quality
issues on board meeting agendas, and linking some component of executive compensation to
performance on quality metrics.
For example, before a trustee joins the Virginia Mason Health System board, they are sent a
compact (that is then reviewed annually) to reinforce core expectations of trustees, which includes
quality oversight.31 Stephen Muething, Co-Director, James M. Anderson Center for Health System
Excellence, Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center, notes that Cincinnati Children’s initially
assigns all new board members to serve on the quality committee for their first year on the board,
indicating that quality is so essential to their operations that every board member must develop
core knowledge in quality.
Still, for too many boards, quality is not central to trustee education and not allocated sufficient
time for learning and generative discussion.

Build Knowledge Competency and Define Oversight Responsibility of Quality
Knowledge and a clear work plan form a foundation for confident and thoughtful engagement in
quality. Once trustees have been educated and are confident in their understanding of the core
concepts, health system leaders need to work with trustees to define which issues the quality
committee(s) will manage and which issues will be discussed by the entire board. This delineation
of activities needs to be clearly articulated in the annual work plan for each group and will vary
based on the size, scope, and structure of each organization.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

29

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Create a Culture of Inquiry
Board oversight of quality is not intended to micromanage the work of senior leaders, but to
engage in thoughtful inquiry to ensure that organizational performance aligns with the
expectations established by both leaders and trustees. For example, Henry Ford Health System has
an annual quality retreat for its board quality committee and the quality committees of its hospitals
and business lines. The trustees and health system leaders use this retreat as a time to dive deep on
education, evaluate performance in depth, and have small group discussions to evaluate both
quality and governance practices.32
Diversity also adds to the culture of inquiry by bringing differing perspectives and community
representation to the quality discussions. The size of board and committee meetings can prohibit
in-depth dialogue; building in time for small group interactions can help support a culture of
inquiry.

Be Visible in Supporting Quality
Boards can support health system leaders in their efforts to improve quality in many ways,
including conducting rounds, visiting the point of care, and thanking frontline staff for their
contributions to improving care quality and safety. Health system leaders can provide guidance on
the best ways for trustees to be visible in supporting quality in the organization.

Focus on the Patient
The board can also support quality work by including time on the agenda to hear patient stories,
which personalizes the data. For example, board chair Mike Williams described how “Children’s
National Medical Center in Washington, DC, has strengthened board engagement with their
frontline clinical teams to focus on safety, quality, and outcomes of clinical care. Their ‘board to
bedside’ sessions discuss important topics of care and then move to the bedside to experience how
changes are being implemented and gather experiences of patients.”33
The elements of this support guide are reinforced in the Board Quality Culture and Commitment
section (Category 1) of the Governance of Quality Assessment (GQA). Boards that carry out the
core processes of governance of quality without a deeper culture and commitment to quality will be
more likely to have a “check the box” mentality that the expert group identified as less likely to
demonstrate leadership and commitment to advancing quality within the health system in a way
that patients deserve.

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

30

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Appendix B: IHI Lucian Leape Institute
Expert Meeting Attendees
Advancing Trustee Engagement and Education in Quality, Safety, and Equity
July 12, 2018
•

Paul Anderson, Trustee, University of Chicago Medical Center

•

Evan Benjamin, MD, MS, FACP, Chief Medical Officer, Ariadne Labs; Harvard School of
Public Health; Harvard Medical School; IHI Faculty

•

Jay Bhatt, DO, Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, American Hospital
Association; President, Health Research & Educational Trust

•

Lee Carter, Member, Board of Trustees, Former Board Chair, Cincinnati Children’s Hospital
Medical Center

•

Jim Conway, MS, Trustee, Winchester Hospital, Lahey Health System

•

Tania Daniels, PT, MBA, Vice President, Quality and Patient Safety, Minnesota Hospital
Association

•

James A. Diegel, FACHE, Chief Executive Officer, Howard University Hospital

•

James Eppel, Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, HealthPartners

•

Karen Frush, MD, CPPS, Chief Quality Officer, Stanford Health Care

•

Tejal K. Gandhi, MD, MPH, CPPS, Chief Clinical and Safety Officer, Institute for Healthcare
Improvement; President, IHI Lucian Leape Institute (Meeting Co-Chair)

•

Michael Gutzeit, MD, Chief Medical Officer, Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin

•

Gerald B. Hickson, MD, Senior Vice President for Quality, Safety, and Risk Prevention,
Vanderbilt Health System; Joseph C. Ross Chair for Medical Education and Administration,
Vanderbilt University Medical School; Board Member, Institute for Healthcare Improvement

•

Brent James, MD, MStat, Member, National Academy of Medicine; Senior Fellow and Board
Member, Institute for Healthcare Improvement

•

Maulik Joshi, DrPH, Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President, Integrated Care, Anne
Arundel Medical Center

•

Gary S. Kaplan, MD, FACMPE, Chairman and CEO, Virginia Mason Health System; Chair,
IHI Lucian Leape Institute; Board Member, Institute for Healthcare Improvement

•

John J. Lynch III, FACHE, President and CEO, Main Line Health

•

Kedar Mate, MD, Chief Innovation and Education Officer, Institute for Healthcare
Improvement

•

Patricia McGaffigan, RN, MS, CPPS, Vice President, Safety Programs, Institute for Healthcare
Improvement; President, Certification Board for Professionals in Patient Safety, IHI

•

Ruth Mickelsen, JD, MPH, Board Chair, HealthPartners

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

31

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

•

Stephen E. Muething, MD, Chief Quality Officer, Co-Director, James M. Anderson Center for
Health System Excellence, Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center

•

Lawrence Prybil, PhD, LFACHE, Community Professor, College of Public Health, University
of Kentucky

•

Michael Pugh, MPH, President, MDP Associates; Faculty, Institute for Healthcare
Improvement

•

Shahab Saeed, PE, Adjunct Professor of Management, Gore School of Business, Westminster
College; Former Trustee, Intermountain Healthcare

•

Carolyn F. Scanlan, Board Member, Penn Medicine Lancaster General Health

•

Michelle B. Schreiber, MD, former Senior Vice President and Chief Quality Officer, Henry
Ford Health System

•

Andrew Shin, JD, MPH, Chief Operating Officer, Health Research & Educational Trust

•

Debra Stock, Vice President, Trustee Services, American Hospital Association

•

Charles D. Stokes, MHA, FACHE, President and CEO, Memorial Hermann Health System;
Immediate Past Chair, American College of Healthcare Executives

•

Beth Daley Ullem, MBA, Lead Author and Faculty, IHI; President, Quality and Patient Safety
First; Trustee, Solutions for Patient Safety and Catalysis; Former Trustee, Thedacare and
Children’s Hospital of Wisconsin; Advisory Board, Medstar Institute for Quality and Safety

•

Sam R. Watson, MSA, MT(ASCP), CPPS, Senior Vice President, Patient Safety and Quality,
and Executive Director, MHA Keystone Center for Patient Safety and Quality, Michigan
Health & Hospital Association; Board Member, Institute for Healthcare Improvement

•

John W. Whittington, MD, Senior Fellow, Institute for Healthcare Improvement

•

Kevin B. Weiss, MD, MPH, Senior Vice President, Institutional Accreditation, Accreditation
Council for Graduate Medical Education

•

David M. Williams, PhD, Senior Lead, Improvement Science and Methods, Institute for
Healthcare Improvement

•

Isis Zambrana, Associate Vice President, Chief Quality Officer, Jackson Health System

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

32

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Appendix C: Members of the IHI Lucian
Leape Institute
•

Gary S. Kaplan, MD, FACMPE, Chairman and CEO, Virginia Mason Health System; Chair,
IHI Lucian Leape Institute; Board Member, Institute for Healthcare Improvement

•

Tejal K. Gandhi, MD, MPH, CPPS, Chief Clinical and Safety Officer, Institute for Healthcare
Improvement; President, IHI Lucian Leape Institute

•

Donald M. Berwick, MD, MPP, President Emeritus and Senior Fellow, Institute for
Healthcare Improvement

•

Joanne Disch, PhD, RN, FAAN, Professor ad Honorem, University of Minnesota School of
Nursing

•

Susan Edgman-Levitan, PA, Executive Director, John D. Stoeckle Center for Primary Care
Innovation, Massachusetts General Hospital

•

Gregg S. Meyer, MD, MSc, CPPS, Chief Clinical Officer, Partners HealthCare

•

David Michaels, PhD, MPH, Professor, Department of Environmental and Occupational
Health, Milken Institute School of Public Health, George Washington University

•

Julianne M. Morath, RN, MS, President and CEO, Hospital Quality Institute of California

•

Susan Sheridan, MIM, MBA, DHL, Director of Patient Engagement, Society to Improve
Diagnosis in Medicine

•

Charles Vincent, PhD, MPhil, Professor of Psychology, University of Oxford; Emeritus
Professor of Clinical Safety Research, Imperial College, London

•

Robert M. Wachter, MD, Professor and Chair, Department of Medicine, Holly Smith
Distinguished Professor in Science and Medicine, Marc and Lynne Benioff Endowed Chair,
University of California, San Francisco

Emeritus Members
•

Carolyn M. Clancy, MD, Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Health for Quality, Safety and
Value, Veterans Health Administration, US Department of Veterans Affairs

•

Amy C. Edmondson, PhD, AM, Novartis Professor of Leadership and Management, Harvard
Business School

•

Lucian L. Leape, MD, Adjunct Professor of Health Policy, Harvard School of Public Health

•

Paul O’Neill, 72nd Secretary of the US Treasury

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

33

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

References
Institute of Medicine. To Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System. Washington, DC: The
National Academies Press; 2000.
1

Institute of Medicine Committee on Quality of Health Care in America. Crossing the Quality
Chasm: A New Health System for the 21st Century. Washington, DC: National Academies Press;
2001.
2

Jha AK, Epstein AM. A survey of board chairs of English hospitals shows greater attention to
quality of care than among their US counterparts. Health Affairs. 2013;32(4):677-685.
3

Jha A, Epstein A. Hospital governance and the quality of care. Health Affairs. 2010;29(1):182187.
4

Jiang HJ, Lockee C, Bass K, Fraser I, Norwood EP. Board oversight of quality: Any differences in
process of care and mortality? Journal of Healthcare Management. 2009;54(1):15-30.
5

Mannion R, Davies HTO, Jacobs R, Kasteridis P, Millar R, Freeman T. Do hospital boards matter
for better, safer, patient care? Social Science & Medicine. 2017;177:278-287.
6

Tsai TC, Jha AK, Gawande AA, Huckman RS, Bloom N, Sadun R. Hospital board and
management practices are strongly related to hospital performance on clinical quality metrics.
Health Affairs. 2015;34(8):1304-1311.
7

Jha AK, Epstein AM. A survey of board chairs of English hospitals shows greater attention to
quality of care than among their US counterparts. Health Affairs. 2013;32(4):677-685.
8

Jha A, Epstein A. Hospital governance and the quality of care. Health Affairs. 2010;29(1):182187.
9

Jiang HJ, Lockee C, Bass K, Fraser I, Norwood EP. Board oversight of quality: Any differences in
process of care and mortality? Journal of Healthcare Management. 2009;54(1):15-30.
10

Mannion R, Davies HTO, Jacobs R, Kasteridis P, Millar R, Freeman T. Do hospital boards matter
for better, safer, patient care? Social Science & Medicine. 2017;177:278-287.
11

Tsai TC, Jha AK, Gawande AA, Huckman RS, Bloom N, Sadun R. Hospital board and
management practices are strongly related to hospital performance on clinical quality metrics.
Health Affairs. 2015;34(8):1304-1311.
12

Institute of Medicine Committee on Quality of Health Care in America. Crossing the Quality
Chasm: A New Health System for the 21st Century. Washington, DC: National Academies Press;
2001.
13

American College of Healthcare Executives and IHI/NPSF Lucian Leape Institute. Leading a
Culture of Safety: A Blueprint for Success. Boston, MA: American College of Healthcare
Executives and Institute for Healthcare Improvement; 2017.
www.ihi.org/resources/Pages/Publications/Leading-a-Culture-of-Safety-A-Blueprint-forSuccess.aspx
14

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

34

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Martin LA, Mate K. IHI Innovation System. IHI White Paper. Boston, Massachusetts: Institute
for Healthcare Improvement; 2018. www.ihi.org/resources/Pages/IHIWhitePapers/IHIInnovation-System.aspx
15

Daley Ullem E, Gandhi TK, Mate K, Whittington J, Renton M, Huebner J. Research Summary:
Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality. Boston, MA: Institute for Healthcare
Improvement; 2018. www.ihi.org/resources/Pages/IHIWhitePapers/Framework-Effective-BoardGovernance-Health-System-Quality.aspx
16

Berwick DM, Nolan TW, Whittington J. The Triple Aim: Care, health, and cost. Health Affairs.
2008;27(3):759-769.
17

Jha A, Epstein A. Hospital governance and the quality of care. Health Affairs. 2010;29(1):182187.
18

Brown A, Dickinson H, Kelaher M. Governing the quality and safety of healthcare: A conceptual
framework. Social Science & Medicine. 2018;202:99-107.
19

20

Brilli RJ, Allen S, Davis JT. Revisiting the quality chasm. Pediatrics. 2014;133(5):763-765.

Daley Ullem E, Gandhi TK, Mate K, Whittington J, Renton M, Huebner J. Research Summary:
Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality. Boston, MA: Institute for Healthcare
Improvement; 2018. www.ihi.org/resources/Pages/IHIWhitePapers/Framework-Effective-BoardGovernance-Health-System-Quality.aspx
21

HCAHPS: Patients’ Perspectives of Care Survey. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality-Initiatives-Patient-AssessmentInstruments/HospitalQualityInits/HospitalHCAHPS.html
22

23

Pathways to Population Health. www.pathways2pophealth.org/index.html

Scoville R, Little K, Rakover J, Luther K, Mate K. Sustaining Improvement. IHI White Paper.
Cambridge, MA: Institute for Healthcare Improvement; 2016.
www.ihi.org/resources/Pages/IHIWhitePapers/Sustaining-Improvement.aspx
24

Remarks from Gary Kaplan, MD, Chairman and CEO, Virginia Mason Health System, at the
expert meeting on July 12, 2018.
25

Interviews with: Anne Lyren, MD, MSc, Clinical Director, Children’s Hospitals’ Solutions for
Patient Safety, on November 10, 2017; Stephen Muething, MD, Chief Quality Officer, Co-Director,
James M. Anderson Center for Health System Excellence, Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical
Center, on October 27, 2017.
26

Shilton D, Sluka J, Toussaint JS. Improving governance through principles. Healthcare
Executive. 2018;33(4):68-70.
27

Pronovost PJ, Armstrong M, Demski R, et al. Creating a high-reliability health care system:
Improving performance on core processes of care at Johns Hopkins Medicine. Academic Medicine.
2015;90(2):165-172.
28

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

35

 WHITE PAPER : Framework for Effective Board Governance of Health System Quality

Murphy DM. The board’s role in quality and patient safety performance measurement.
BoardRoom Press. 2014;25(3):5-11.
29

“What Healthcare Leaders Need to Know Now.” FurstGroup Blog. July 18, 2013.
www.furstgroup.com/blog/leadership-bisognano
30

Remarks from Gary Kaplan, MD, Chairman and CEO, Virginia Mason Health System, at the
expert meeting on July 12, 2018.
31

Interview with Michelle Schreiber, MD, former Senior Vice President and Chief Quality Officer,
Henry Ford Health System, on January 25, 2018.
32

Interview with Michael Williams, MBA, Board Chair, Children’s National Medical Center, on
February 8, 2018.
33

Institute for Healthcare Improvement • ihi.org

36

 