Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Thursday, December 13, 2018 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1950 W. Polk Street,
in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Richardson-Lowry called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Mary B. Richardson Lowry and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Sidney A.
Thomas, MSW (3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Orlando Brown – Cook County Bureau of Human
Resources
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Barbara Pryor –Chief Human Resources Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board

John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Wayne Wright – Director of Organizational
Development and Training

The next meeting of the Committee will be held on Tuesday, February 19, 2019 at 9:00 A.M.
II.

Public Speakers
Chair Richardson-Lowry asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of October 18, 2018
Director Thomas, seconded by Chair Richardson-Lowry, moved to accept the minutes of
the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of October 18, 2018. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections III and V

IV.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer (Attachment #1)
Barbara Pryor, Chief Human Resources Officer, reviewed her report, which included information on the following
subjects:

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, December 13, 2018
Page 2

IV.

Report from Chief Human Resources Officer (continued)
Impact 2020-Cook County Health (CCH) HR Strategies
 Focus Area 1: Deliver High Quality Care
Highlighted Tactic: 1.5 – Develop cultural competency of workforce
 Focus Area 3: Foster Fiscal Stewardship
Highlighted Tactic: 3.3(b) – Leverage other information technology initiatives such as County-wide
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) implementation
 Focus Area 4: Invest in Resources
Highlighted Tactic: 4.2(d) – Perform annual performance evaluations
Metrics - CCH 2018 HR Strategies
 Improve / Reduce Average Time to Hire
 HR Activity Report – Open Vacancies
 Hiring Snapshot
Wayne Wright, Director of Organizational Development and Training, provided additional information on the
subject of annual performance evaluations. These will be done each year for each employee between October and
December. Chair Richardson-Lowry stated that, in her experience, in an organization this size, she has found that
doing them in a specific period of time is better than doing them on each employee’s hiring date anniversary,
particularly in light of the fact that there is a cultural shift that is happening in the organization. She added that it
might be helpful to do a comparative analysis of what other large comparable institutions are doing in that regard.
During the discussion of the information contained in the Hiring Snapshot, Director Driscoll stated that in
previous reports, metrics regarding nursing vacancies and nursing filled positions have been included; she
inquired whether this information can be provided. Board Chair Hammock requested that those metrics regarding
vacancies filled in the Finance Department also be included in that information. Ms. Pryor responded that she will
provide an update with that information after the meeting.
During the discussion of separations of employees relating to retirements, Chair Richardson-Lowry inquired
whether a notice period has been formalized for departures. Ms. Pryor responded that, for the majority of the
employees, that would need to be negotiated with the labor unions.

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Report from Chief Human Resources Officer
B. Discussion of personnel matters
C. Update on labor negotiations
D. Discussion of litigation matters
E. Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements with:
 The International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 399, representing operating engineers County-wide
 The Cook County Pharmacy Association, Chicago Joint Board, Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union (RWDSU), Local 200, representing pharmacists and pharmacy technicians
 RWDSU, Local 200, representing administrative staff

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, December 13, 2018
Page 3

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Director Thomas, seconded by Director Driscoll, moved to recess the open meeting
and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois
Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the
public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for
the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective
negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their representatives,
or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,”
and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on
behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll
call was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chair Richardson-Lowry and Directors Driscoll and Thomas (3)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: None (0)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee recessed into a
closed meeting.
Chair Richardson-Lowry declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
Committee reconvened into the open meeting.

The

Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Thomas, moved to approve the proposed
Collective Bargaining Agreements with the following:
 The International Union of Operating Engineers, Local 399, representing operating
engineers County-wide;
 RWDSU, Local 200, representing pharmacists and pharmacy technicians; and
 RWDSU, Local 200, representing administrative staff
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Richardson-Lowry declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Thursday, December 13, 2018
Page 4

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Mary B. Richardson-Lowry, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/Follow-up:
Follow-up:

Suggestion made regarding doing a comparative analysis on comparable institutions pertaining to
the timing of their annual employee performance evaluations. Page 2

Follow-up:

Request for information to be provided on nurse vacancies, and vacancies filled in nursing positions
and in the Finance Department. Page 2

 