Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, January 18, 2019 at the hour of 10:00 A.M. at
1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Director Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH (2)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Directors Heather M.
Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH and Mary B. Richardson-Lowry
Karen Kim, MD and Patricia Merryweather (Non-Director Members)

Telephonically
Present:

Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. (Non-Director Member)

Absent:

Director Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Operations
Trevor Lewis, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County
Kent Ray – Associate General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s)
There were no appointments/reappointments presented for the Committee’s consideration.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, January 18, 2019
Page 2

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B. Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #2)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, presented
the medical staff appointments/reappointments/changes for the Committee’s consideration. He
reminded the Committee that the annual meeting of the Medical Staff will be held on January 22nd at
4:00 P.M.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, was unable to
attend the meeting.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to approve the
Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John H. Stroger,
Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to approve the
Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for Provident Hospital
of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, December 14, 2018
Director Driscoll, seconded by Chair Gugenheim, moved to accept the
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of December
14, 2018. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Any items listed under Sections IV and VI

V.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Quality Measures (Attachment #3)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the presentation, which included information on the following
subjects:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Definition of Health Care Quality
Meaningful Measures – Framework, Goals and Objectives
Most Critical Measures Areas
Aim: Promote Effective Prevention and Treatment of Chronic Disease
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Star Ratings – Measures and Data
Star Quality Action Plan
Star Quality Steering Committee
CMS Measure Focused Finding Workgroup
Proposed Structure
Next Steps

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, January 18, 2019
Page 3

V.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Quality Measures (continued)
During the review of the measures and data, Board Chair Hammock recommended that the column in the
data charts that show the comparison to national mean should instead reflect whether Stroger Hospital’s
results are better or otherwise than the national mean, rather than “above” or “below.”
Following the discussion, Board Chair Hammock observed that this is a great programmatic approach;
however, he did not hear a lot about financial impact. He thinks the organization has to be realistic in the
following two (2) ways: 1) each initiative needs to have a candid cost benefit review; and 2) in
cooperation with the Chief Financial Officer, the administration should determine a sum of money that
could be used to fund key initiatives, and get that on the budget prospect for the year.

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Requests/follow-up:
Request:

A request was made regarding the column in the strategic planning presentation data charts that
show the comparison to national mean - they should instead reflect whether Stroger Hospital’s
results are better or otherwise than the national mean, rather than “above” or “below.” Page 3

 