Minutes of the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System held Friday, January 18, 2019 at the hour of 8:30 A.M., at 1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference
Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (Substitute Member) and Director Mary B.
Richardson-Lowry (2)
Directors Hon. Dr. Dennis Deer, LCPC, CCFC; Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH; Ada Mary Gugenheim,
David Ernesto Munar; and Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH
Steven Scheer (Non-Director Member)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Finance
and Strategy
Charles Jones – Chief Procurement Officer
Iliana Mora – Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory
Services

II.

Kent Ray – Associate General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

III. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, December 14, 2018
Board Chair Hammock, seconded by Chair Reiter, moved to accept the Minutes
of the Finance Committee Meeting of December 14, 2018. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
Charles Jones, Chief Procurement Officer, provided an overview of the contractual requests presented for the
Committee’s consideration. The Committee reviewed and discussed the requests.
It was noted that request number 8 is being withdrawn from consideration.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, January 18, 2019
Page 2

III. Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Chair Reiter, seconded by Board Chair Hammock, moved the approval of request
numbers 1 through 18, with the exception of request number 8, which was
withdrawn, and subject to completion of review by Contract Compliance, where
appropriate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
C. Any items listed under Section III

IV. Report from Chief Procurement Officer
A. Report of emergency purchases
There were no emergency purchases to report at this time.
V.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A. Strategic planning discussion: Financial Status and Pressures (Attachment #2)
Finance Metrics (Attachment #3)
Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer, provided an overview of the finance metrics. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.
During the review of the Ambulatory and Community Health Network (ACHN) Operations Overview, Board
Chair Hammock inquired regarding Prieto Clinic’s provider visits being lower than expected. Iliana Mora, Chief
Operating Officer of Ambulatory Services, responded that the clinic is experiencing a decrease in provider time,
which means they did not have enough providers. The administration is implementing recruitment plans and is
working with provider leaders to staff up at the site for full-time providers. Additionally, they are working with
the department chairs to see how to get more provider time - not just for Prieto but across the System.
Mr. Akpan provided an overview of the strategic planning discussion presentation, which included information on
the following subjects:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Overview of Finance Department
Impact 2020 Recap – Status and Results
FY2016-2018 – Some Financial Context for the Future
Environmental Scan of Market, Best Practices, Trends
Key Revenue Considerations
Key Revenue Trends / Analysis
Key Expense Considerations

Board Chair Hammock stated that, as part of the strategic plan, the Board has to have a clearer understanding
of the long-term pension liabilities; he requested that the administration makes sure that is factored in. Chair
Reiter noted that he has previously asked that the Committee have a pension discussion, so people have a
working understanding of where the pension obligation comes from, what it means, and how it factors in. Dr.
John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, stated that he and staff will take a look at the schedule of
upcoming meetings and strategic planning topics to find the best spot to have that discussion.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Finance Committee
Friday, January 18, 2019
Page 3

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Reiter declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Finance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Chair
Attest:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Follow-up / Requests:
Request:

Request made to have Committee discussion in the near future and as part of the strategic
planning discussions regarding long-term pension liabilities and obligations. Page 2

 