City of Detroit

Alton James
Chairperson
Lauren Hood, MCD
Vice Chair/Secretary

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336
e-mail: cpc@detroitmi.gov

Brenda Goss Andrews
Lisa Whitmore Davis
David Esparza, AIA, LEED
Gregory Pawlowski
Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Angy Webb

City Planning Commission Regular Meeting
May 2, 2019 at 5:00 PM
Committee of the Whole Room
13th Floor – Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Ave. (at E. Jefferson Ave.)
(use Randolph Street entrance after 5:30 PM)
AGENDA
I. Opening
A.
B.
C.

Call to Order – 5:00 PM
Roll Call
Amendments to and approval of agenda

II. Minutes
A.
III.

Minutes will be provided subsequently for action at your next meeting.

Public Hearings and Presentations
A.

5:15 PM PUBLIC DISCUSSION – to consider the request of Parkstone Development
Partners on behalf of Wilbur Block, LLC to amend District Map No. 7 of the Detroit Zoning
Ordinance to show a SD2 (Special Development District, Mixed Use) zoning classification
where a M4 (Intensive Industrial District) zoning classification is currently shown for the
properties generally bounded by Baltimore Avenue on the north, the Lodge Expressway on the
east, Holden Avenue on the south, and Lincoln Avenue on the west and more commonly known
as 6302, 6310, 6320 Lincoln and 1262, 1240 and 1234 Wilbur Street. (KJ)
60 mins

B.

6:15 PM PUBLIC HEARING – to consider the request of the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy
to amend District Map No. 1 of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance to show a PR (Parks and
Recreation District) zoning classification where a PCA (Public Center Adjacent District)
zoning classification is currently shown for the properties generally bounded by Jefferson W.
Avenue on the north, Cabacier extended on the east, the Detroit River on the south, and Rosa
Parks extended on the west and more commonly known as 1801 W. Jefferson Ave. (KK, KU)
60 mins

IV. Unfinished Business
A.

Consideration of the request of the City Planning Commission staff to rezone several
blocks/properties on Zoning Map No. 52 near I-75/Fisher Freeway and Pleasant Street in the
48217 zip code/Boynton Area (CG) (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)
20 mins

 V.

B.

Consideration of the request of Mr. Bernard Butris to amend Article XVII, District Map No.
19 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Chapter 61, Zoning, by showing a P1 (Open Parking District)
zoning classification where an R1 (Single-family Residential District) zoning classification and
B4 (General Business District) zoning classification currently exists on three (3) parcels
commonly identified as 5710 E. Eight Mile Road, 20564 and 20576 Syracuse Avenue,
generally bounded by E. Eight Mile Road to the north, the north-south alley first east of
Syracuse Avenue to the east, Hamlet Street to the south and Syracuse Avenue to the west.. (GE)
(RECOMMEND APPROVAL)
20 mins

C.

Consideration of the request of Rockford Construction to amend Article XVII, District Map 4,
of the 1984 Detroit City Code Chapter 61, Zoning, by modifying the provisions of the existing
PD (Planned Development District) zoning classification for the property located at 3750
Woodward Avenue generally bounded by Alexandrine Avenue, John R. Street, Mack Avenue
and Woodward Avenue to establish a mixed-use development to include a hotel, retail space,
condominiums, student residences, multi-family units, and on-site parking. Additionally, the
request of the Roxbury Group, LLC to modify the provisions of the PD (Planned Development
District) classification at 3800 Woodward Avenue to allow for the existing tower with an
‘establishment that serves alcohol for consumption on the premises.’ Each of these requests
proposes to allow those uses that are generally permitted in the B5 Major Business District.
(KJ) (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)
30 mins

D.

Consideration of the initiative of the City Planning Commission and the Planning and
Development Department amendment to Article XI of the Detroit Zoning Ordinance to create
a Form-Based Overlay District for the Brush Park neighborhood, generally bounded by Mack
Avenue on the north, the Chrysler Freeway on the east, the Fisher Service Freeway on the south,
and Woodward Avenue on the west. The overlay district is intended to regulate land
development primarily using form and massing as the guiding principle and to define the
developing character of the Brush Park neighborhood Code (KJ, JM and PDD staff Julio
Cedano) (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)
45 mins

New Business

VI. Committee Reports
VII. Staff Report
VIII. Communications
IX. Public Comment
X.

Adjournment (anticipated by 9:45 PM)

NOTE: With advance notice of seven calendar days, the City of Detroit will provide interpreter services at
public meetings, including language translation and reasonable ADA accommodations. Please contact the
Civil Rights, Inclusion and Opportunity Department at (313) 224-4950, through the TTY number 711, or
email crio@detroitmi.gov to schedule these services.

 