Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, March 22, 2019 at the hour of 10:30 A.M. at
1950 W. Polk Street, in Conference Room 5301, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chair Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chair Ada Mary Gugenheim and Directors Mary Driscoll, RN, MPH and Layla P.
Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (3)
Board Chair M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio) and Director Mike Koetting
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. and Patricia Merryweather (Non-Director Members)

Absent:

Director Heather M. Prendergast, MD, MS, MPH (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Faran Bokhari, MD – Chair, Department of Trauma
and Burn Services
Debra Carey – Deputy Chief Executive Officer of
Operations
Claudia Fegan, MD – Chief Medical Officer
Trevor Lewis, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County

II.

Beena Peters, DNP, RN, FACHE – Chief Nursing
Officer
Kent Ray –Associate General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Wyatt, MD – Chief Quality Officer

Public Speakers
Chair Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates (Attachment #1)
Dr. Ronald Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer, provided an overview of the Provident Hospital Accreditation
Update, which included information on the subjects below. The Committee reviewed and discussed the
information.
Provident Hospital Accreditation Update:
 2019 Ambulatory Accreditation and Continuous Readiness Strategy
 The Joint Commission (TJC) Survey Readiness Strategy
 Survey Readiness Tools
 Survey Enhancements
 Suicide Prevention
 TJC Survey Updates
 Sentinel Event Alerts
 Quick Safety Alerts
 Standard Changes – Effective July 1, 2019

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, March 22, 2019
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer (continued)
B. Metrics (Attachment #2)
Dr. Wyatt provided an overview of the metrics. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.

IV.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Update on Trauma Services (Attachment #3)
Dr. Faran Bokhari, Chair of the Department of Trauma and Burn Services, provided an overview of the
presentation on Trauma Services, which included information on the following items:










V.

Department Divisions and Sections
Initiatives 2018
Trauma Services: Volume and Method of Injury
Parameters Tracked
Trauma Metrics
Burn Services 2018
Rehabilitation Services
Research and Presentations
Initiatives 2019

Action Items
A. Approve appointments and reappointments of Stroger Hospital Department Chair(s) and Division
Chair(s)
There were none presented for the Committee’s consideration.

B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes (Attachment #4)
Dr. Trevor Lewis, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, provided
his report.
Elections of EMS officers were recently held for two (2) year terms. The results were:
President - Dr. Trevor Lewis, Department of Trauma and Burn Services
Vice President - Dr. Lauren Smith, Department of Medicine
Treasurer - Dr. Ashlesha Patel, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Secretary - Dr. Yadav Neha, Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, March 22, 2019
Page 3

V.

Action Items
B.

Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County (continued)
At the recent EMS meeting, they received presentations from Pharmacy, Therapeutics, Infection
Control and the Cancer Committee. He noted that the Joint Conference Committee will be convening
in the near future.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Dr. Valerie Hansbrough, President of the EMS of Provident Hospital of Cook County, was unable to
attend the meeting. The Committee considered the proposed Provident Hospital medical staff actions
presented for their consideration.
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to
approve the Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes for
Provident Hospital of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, February 22, 2019
Director Driscoll, seconded by Director Suleiman Gonzalez, moved to accept
the Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of February
22, 2019. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Any items listed under Sections V and VI

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Claims, Litigation and Quality and Patient Safety Matters
C. Matters protected under the federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act of 2005 and the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
The Committee did not recess into a closed meeting.

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chair Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Friday, March 22, 2019
Page 4

Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

There were no requests for follow-up at the meeting.

 