DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
SPECIAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
4:00 PM
BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT:

Maggie DeSantis
John George
Juan Gonzalez
Sonya Mays
Pamela McClain
Ray Scott
Matthew Walters
Stephanie Washington

BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT:

Donele Wilkins

OTHERS PRESENT:

Jennifer Kanalos (DEGC/DBRA)
Brian Vosburg (DEGC/DBRA)
Malinda Jensen (DEGC/DBRA)
Glen Long (DEGC)
Rebecca Navin (DEGC)
Kenyetta Bridges (DEGC)
Paul Kako (DEGC)
Charlotte Fisher (DEGC)
Ngozi Nwaesei (Lewis & Munday)
Brian Holdwick (Holdwick Dev. Group)
John Kohl (Atlas Wholesale)
Ron Stallworth (FCA US LLC)
Ben Monicelli (FCA US LLC)
Greg Rose (FCA US LLC)
L. Alan Johnson (FCA US LLC)

 MINUTES OF THE DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY SPECIAL MEETING
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 2019
DETROIT ECONOMIC GROWTH CORPORATION
500 GRISWOLD SUITE 2200 DETROIT, MI – 4:00 PM
CALL TO ORDER
Chair Matthew Walters called the meeting to order at 4:05 PM.
GENERAL
Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the minutes of March 27, 2019 as presented.
The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. Mays, DBRA Resolution Code 1904-02-252 was unanimously approved.
Treasurer’s Report
Mr. Long presented the March 2019 Treasurer’s report and responded to the Board
regarding the line item for legal fees.
Mr. Walters stated that the payment to Matt Walters was a reimbursement for items that
he purchased for the FCA US, LLC project’s rezoning.
Mr. Walters called for a motion accepting the March 2019 Treasurer’s Report as
presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Mr. Gonzalez, DBRA Resolution Code
19-04-03-185 was unanimously approved.
PROJECTS
Mr. Walters announced that due to a timing constraint with the Developer, the agenda
would be revised to allow for the Ashton Brownfield Redevelopment item to go first on the
agenda.
Ashton Brownfield Redevelopment Plan: Request to Support New Project Scope
Mr. Vosburg presented the Ashton Brownfield Redevelopment Plan new project scope
item to the Board. The Developer provided additional information with respect to the new
project scope. Mr. Vosburg, Ms. Kanalos and the Developer responded to Board

 questions regarding clarification of the request, project scope, financing, hotel
management and the project timeline.
On October 18, 2017, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the
“DBRA”) Board of Directors recommended approval to Detroit City Council of the
Brownfield Plan for the Ashton Redevelopment Project (the “Plan”) which was
subsequently approved by Detroit City Council on November 21, 2017. A Reimbursement
Agreement (the “Agreement”) was approved by the DBRA on December 13, 2017.
Since that time, due to market conditions, the project described in the Plan has changed.
Originally, the Plan described the project as the redevelopment of a semi-vacant property
and new construction of an approximately 12-story mixed-use development with ground
floor commercial and retail space, an estimated 103 for-sale market rate condominiums,
residential amenities, and integrated parking. The new project consists of the
redevelopment of a semi-vacant property and new construction of an approximately 6story mixed-use development with ground floor commercial retail space, an estimated 156
room hotel with amenities, and approximately 151 integrated parking spaces.
It is estimated that the new project will be result in approximately 175 temporary
construction jobs being created, and 50 additional permanent jobs are also expected to
be created by prospective tenants. Total investment of the new design is expected to be
approximately $47 million, down from the $58 million previously expected.
Despite the changes to the project description, the Developer is still requesting the same
$13,395,285.00 in TIF reimbursement and will be completing the same Eligible Activities
as described in the Plan. The Plan allows DBRA to approve changes to the project
description, without necessitating an amendment to the Plan, so long as such variations
are not material and arise as a result of changes in market and/or financing conditions
affecting the project. All material changes, as determined by DBRA in its sole discretion,
to the project description are subject to the approval of the DBRA staff and shall be
consistent with the overall nature of the proposed development, its proposed public
purpose, and the purposes of Act 381, as amended. DBRA Staff has reviewed the new
proposed development and has determined that the changes to the project are a result of
the market conditions and, notwithstanding the material changes to the project, the new
project still meets the DBRA Guidelines and is consistent with the overall nature of the
proposed development, its proposed public purpose, and the purposes of Act 381, as
amended. As a result, DBRA Staff recommends that the DBRA Board of Directors
approve the changes to the project description.
A resolution acknowledging the DBRA Board of Directors’ approval of the changes to
project description described in the Plan (the “New Project”) and the DBRA’s execution of
one or more letters of support for the Plan and the New Project were attached for Board
review and approval.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the changes to project description described in
the Plan and the DBRA’s execution of one or more letters of support for the Plan as
presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code
19-04-249-04 was unanimously approved.

 Industrial Land Assembly Project: Approve Land Transfer Agreements
Ms. Bridges introduced the Land Transfer Agreement items and included an overview
Board actions to-date regarding the Industrial Land Assembly Project (the “Project”), traffic
studies conducted in the Project area, and the Neighborhood Advisory Council process
with respect to the Community Benefits Agreement process. Ms. Bridges also clarified to
the Board the role of the DBRA in implementing the Project. The Board requested that a
timeline of the FCA project be presented at a subsequent meeting.
The FCA US LLC (“FCA”) team gave a detailed presentation to the Board on the FCA
expansion and responded to Board member questions regarding the community benefits
process, types of jobs that will be available, outreach to potential employees, property
buyouts-particularly for residents located on Beniteau-some of whom have voiced concern
regarding the new wall construction and construction noise, and proximity of plants to one
another.
Ms. Navin presented the Land Transfer Agreement items. Ms. Navin responded to Board
member questions regarding details of the land swap, how property purchase prices were
determined and how prices relate to the land swap, whether the land expected to be
transferred to FCA was part of the incentive package, other incentives to be provided,
status of property contamination, property acquisition on Beniteau and the Hantz
properties, whether there was an estimate of the aggregate of the land that will be
transferred to FCA and whether the Board will be able to review the benefits to the
community with the next round of approvals.
In connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) at the request of the City of Detroit (the
“City”), on February 27, 2019, (DBRA 19-02-262-08), the DBRA approved that certain
Memorandum of Understanding by and between FCA US LLC (“FCA”), DBRA and the
City (the “MOU”) relating to the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit
(the “Project”):
•

•

Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located
at Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs; and
Invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant (“JNAP”),
located at Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time
jobs.

In order to move forward with the Project, FCA needs approximately 200 acres of marketready land to support its operations at the 2 facilities for Project-related activities such as
employee parking, trailer marshalling, and finished vehicle storage. Thus, in the MOU,
DBRA and the City agreed, among other things, to execute binding agreements to deliver
title to sufficient acreage adjacent to or in close proximity to the Project site to meet FCA’s
expansion needs.
DBRA staff has negotiated terms to acquire certain parcels required for the Project, the
parties and key terms of which are described on Exhibit A. Any cash consideration and
diligence and other acquisition costs will be payable from funds made available by the City
to the DBRA.

 DBRA staff informed the Board that it was seeking its approval to (i) enter into each of the
transactions described on Exhibit A, (ii) execute agreements with DTE and the Detroit
Land Bank substantially in the form of Exhibits B and C, respectively, (iii) and negotiate
and execute purchase agreements and/or other appropriate documentation relating to the
transactions described on Exhibit A with each of Detroit Public Schools, Michael Kelly,
and Hantz.
A resolution was attached for the Board’s review and approval.
Ms. Mays disclosed to the Board that she is Detroit Public Schools Board and has
conferred with legal counsel to be advised that there is no conflict of interest with respect
to voting on the Land Transfer Agreement items associated with the Detroit Public
Schools.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the Land Transfer Agreements for the Industrial
Land Assembly Project as presented. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Mr. George, seconded by Ms. McClain, DBRA Resolution Code
19-04-262-12 was unanimously approved.

Funding of Professional Consultant Services Agreement for Planning Services at
the Uniroyal Site
Ms. Navin presented the Consultant Services Agreement for Planning Services at the
Uniroyal Site.
On June 15, 2005, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) entered into
a Development Agreement (as amended, the “Agreement”) with Bettis/Betters
Development, LLC (the “Developer”) for the property commonly known as the Uniroyal
Site (the “Site”). Over the years, the Agreement has been amended to extend the date of
closing. Furthermore, on November 8, 2017, the Developer executed an Assignment and
Assumption Agreement (the “Assignment”) whereby the Developer assigned its rights and
obligations under the Agreement to Belleview Redevelopment LLC, which has been
formed as a joint venture between Assignor and Riverfront Site, LLC.
Following the execution of the Assignment, on February 28, 2018, the DBRA approved an
amendment to the Assignment which amended certain conditions contained therein. Such
condition would nullify and void the Assignment and extend the date of closing to August
1, 2019 if the parties thereto did not agree to revised minimum development requirements
and millstones. The parties to the Assignment were unable to reach an agreement on the
minimum development requirements and milestones and thus, the Assignment is no
longer valid and the date of closing has been extended to August 1, 2019.
Subsequently, the Developer approached DBRA staff with a request to phase the
acquisition and development of land for the 42-acre Site. This approach benefits both
parties. It allows the Developer to phase the required remediation and infrastructure
improvements and allows the DBRA and City of Detroit to retain ownership of the
remainder of the Site and only transfer subsequent portions based on Developer’s
performance. This phasing approach requires a master plan to create informed phasing
and parcel boundaries and will result in a subsequent amendment to the Agreement,
subject to the approval of the DBRA Board of Directors.

 DBRA staff has negotiated a scope of work for the services described in the attached
Exhibit A (the “Services”) with the planning and architectural firm Skidmore, Owings and
Merrill (“SOM”) to create a Uniroyal Master Plan. SOM is a Chicago-based firm and was
selected through a competitive process to lead the East Riverfront District Framework
planning process. The Detroit Riverfront Conservancy (the “DRFC”) in collaboration with
the City of Detroit Planning and Development Department and the EDC recently
completed the 10-month planning engagement and launched the East Riverfront
Framework. For this planning process, a Request for Qualifications and Proposals was
issued in November 2015 and twenty-four responses were received. After an internal
review process, publicly held interviews were conducted with six selected firms in July
2016. Over 300 residents and stakeholders attended the interviews. SOM was selected
based on its experience on projects of similar scope, size and complexity, expertise in
waterfront and community planning, and the local representation and partners. SOM has
knowledge of the area, stakeholders, and developed vision that makes them uniquely
qualified to complete a high quality and cost-effective master planning process
expeditiously.
The cost for the Services to be provided on the Site is an amount not to exceed One
Hundred Seventy-Nine Thousand Four Hundred Eighty and 00/100 ($179,480.00) Dollars
(the “Service Fee”). DBRA staff and the Developer have agreed that a 50/50 sharing of
the cost of the Service Fee would be appropriate.
With respect the DBRA’s share of the Service Fee, DBRA staff seeks to enter into a
funding agreement with the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
(“EDC”) as contemplated by the Interlocal Agreement (the “Interlocal Agreement”) entered
into between the DBRA and the EDC on September 24th, 2013 relating to the
implementation of the East Riverfront Plan.
With respect to the Developer’s share of the Service Fee, the DBRA and Developer will
execute an amendment to the Agreement, or other funding agreement, relating to the
payment of Developer’s share.
Ms. Navin responded to questions regarding the procurement process and whether the
cost for services was appropriate. Ms. Navin also informed the board that the Joint Venture
that was previously presented to the DBRA for approval did not end up moving forward.
A resolution was prepared for Board consideration authorizing (i) the negotiation and
execution of a professional services agreement with SOM to perform the Services for an
amount not to exceed the Service Fee; (ii) the negotiation and execution of a funding
agreement with the EDC pursuant to which the EDC will fund 50% of the Service Fee
pursuant to the Interlocal Agreement; and (iii) the negotiation and execution of an
amendment to the Agreement, or other funding agreement, relating to the payment by
Developer of 50% of the Service Fee.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the authorization for (i) the negotiation and
execution of a professional services agreement with SOM to perform the Services for an
amount not to exceed the Service Fee; (ii) the negotiation and execution of a funding
agreement with the EDC pursuant to which the EDC will fund 50% of the Service Fee
pursuant to the Interlocal Agreement; and (iii) the negotiation and execution of an

 amendment to the Agreement, or other funding agreement, relating to the payment by
Developer of 50% of the Service Fee. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. Washington, seconded by Mr. George, DBRA Resolution Code
19-03-268-02 was approved with Ms. DeSantis and Ms. Mays as nays.
Recommendation to City Council to Terminate the 1322 Broadway Brownfield Plan
Section 14(8)(b) of Act 381 of 1996, as amended, states:
“A brownfield plan or plan amendment may be abolished or terminated according
to this subsection subject to all of the following:
(b) The governing body may terminate a brownfield plan or plan amendment for
an eligible property if the project for which eligible activities were identified in the
brownfield plan or plan amendment fails to occur with respect to the eligible
property for at least 2 years following the date of the resolution approving the
brownfield plan or plan amendment, provided that the governing body first does
both of the following:
(xi) Gives 30 days' prior written notice to the developer at its last known
address by certified mail or other method that documents proof of delivery
attempted.
(xii) Provides the developer an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting.”
Over the years, the DBRA has approved Brownfield Plans which describe projects that
have failed to come to fruition (the “Plan(s)”). These Plans, particularly Plans that involve
TIF revenue, create an administrative burden for the City and the DBRA with multiple
annual accounting and reporting requirements for each Plan. Additionally, a stalled Plan
prevents a new proposed development from being able to use and/or take full advantage
of Brownfield TIF. Terminating a Plan allows new proposed developments to make full use
of Brownfield TIF financing through a new Brownfield Plan that is in line with the new
proposed development.
1322 Broadway is a Plan approved by Council on November 14, 2003. The project,
developed by 1322 Broadway Development Company, proposed the redevelopment of 1
parcel in Detroit. The project failed to occur within two (2) years of City Council approval
of the Plan. Section 14(8)(b) of Act 381 of 1996, as amended, allows City Council to
terminate the plan as a result.
It is the opinion of DBRA staff that the 1322 Broadway Plan should be terminated due to
the fact that the project described in the Plan has failed to occur, and more than 2 years
has passed since City Council approval of the Plan. DBRA staff will send a notice via
certified mail to the developer no less than 30 days before the date City Council is
scheduled to terminate the Plan.
A resolution recommending the following actions for the Plan is attached for your review
and approval:
1. Recommendation to terminate the Plan to City Council.

 2. Issue a certified letter notification to the Developer of the intent to terminate the
Plan in no less than 30 days as well as the opportunity to be heard at a public
meeting.
3. Authorization to the DBRA to terminate any other agreements or contracts
between Developer and the DBRA executed in conjunction with the Plan upon
termination of the Plan by City Council.
The Plan will be formally terminated upon adoption of a Resolution for the Plan by City
Council and following the signing of the Resolution by the Mayor.
Mr. Walters called for a motion approving the recommendation to City Council to
Terminate the 1322 Broadway Brownfield Plan. The Board took the following action:
On a motion by Ms. McClain, seconded by Ms. Washington, DBRA Resolution
Code 19-04-59-03 was approved.

ADMINISTRATIVE
Expenditure Report Under Delegation of Authority
Attached for DBRA Board information was the Delegation of Authority report of
expenditures approved for the period of January through March of 2019.
OTHER
None
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
ADJOURNMENT
Citing no further business, Mr. Walters called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.
On a motion by Ms. Washington, seconded by Mr. Scott the meeting was
unanimously adjourned at 5:47 PM.

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 19-04-02-252
APPROVAL OF MINUTES MARCH 27, 2019
RESOLVED, that the minutes of the regular meeting of March 27, 2019 are hereby
approved and all actions taken by the Directors present at such meeting, as set forth in
such minutes, are hereby in all respects ratified and approved as actions of the Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.

 April 17, 2019

DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

DBRA 19-04-03-186
ACCEPTANCE OF TREASURER’S REPORT FOR MARCH 2019
RESOLVED, that the Treasurer’s Report of Receipts and Disbursements for the
period March 1 through March 31, 2019, as presented at this meeting is hereby in all
respects accepted as actions of the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority.

 April 17, 2019

DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963 2940
Fax:
313 963 8839

CODE DBRA 19-04-249-04
ASHTON BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT PLAN: REAFFIRMING SUPPORT
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2017, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority (the “DBRA”) Board of Directors adopted a resolution recommending approval
by the Detroit City Council of the Brownfield Plan for the Ashton Redevelopment Project
(the “Plan”) being undertaken by 600 Ventures, LLC (the “Developer”); and
WHEREAS, on November 21, 2017, the Detroit City Council approved the Plan;
and
WHEREAS, on December 13, 2017, the DBRA approved the Reimbursement
Agreement; and
WHEREAS, due to market conditions, the project described in the Plan has
changed from a mixed-use project featuring residential market rate condominiums to a
new mixed-use project featuring a hotel (the “New Project,” as more particularly described
in the attached Exhibit A); and
WHEREAS, the Eligible Activities and total amount of tax increment financing
described in the Plan has not changed with the New Project; and
WHEREAS, the Plan allows DBRA to approve changes to the project description,
without necessitating an amendment to the Plan, so long as such variations are not
material and arise as a result of changes in market and/or financing conditions affecting
the project; and

 WHEREAS, all material changes, as determined by DBRA in its sole discretion, to
the project description are subject to the approval of the DBRA staff and shall be consistent
with the overall nature of the proposed development, its proposed public purpose, and the
purposes of Act 381, as amended.
WHEREAS, the DBRA Staff has reviewed the New Project and has determined
that the changes to the original project described in the Plan are a result of the market
condition and, notwithstanding the material changes to the original project, the New
Project still meets the DBRA Guidelines and is consistent with the overall nature of the
proposed development, its proposed public purpose, and the purposes of Act 381, as
amended; and
WHEREAS, the DBRA Staff is recommending that the Board of Directors approve
the changes to the project description in the Plan (i.e. New Project); and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors desires to reaffirm its support for the Plan and
approve the New Project undertaken by the Developer.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors reaffirms its
support for the Plan and approves the changes to the original project description described
in the Plan to reflect the New Project undertaken by the Developer; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED:
1.

Any Officer or designated Authorized Agent of the DBRA is authorized to
execute and deliver one or more letters of support for the Plan and the New
Project.

2.

All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings in conflict
herewith
shall be and the same hereby are repealed insofar as such
conflict arises.

3.

This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
authorized agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
April 17, 2019

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 19-04-262-12
LAND ASSEMBLY PROJECT:
TRANSACTIONS

AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO PURCHASE

WHEREAS, in connection with the industrial land assembly project undertaken by
the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (“DBRA”) at the request of the City
of Detroit (the “City”), on February 27, 2019, (DBRA 19-02-262-08), the DBRA approved
that certain Memorandum of Understanding by and between FCA US LLC (“FCA”), DBRA
and the City relating to the following investment proposed by FCA in the city of Detroit (the
“Project”):
•

•

Construct a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant located
at Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs; and
Invest approximately $900 million at its Jefferson North Assembly Plant (“JNAP”),
located at Jefferson and St. Jean, creating approximately 1,100 net new full-time
jobs.

WHEREAS, in order to move forward with the Project, FCA needs approximately
200 acres of market-ready land to support its operations at the 2 facilities for Projectrelated activities such as employee parking, trailer marshalling, and finished vehicle
storage; and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff has negotiated terms to acquire certain parcels required
for the Project, the parties and key terms of which are described on Exhibit A; and
WHEREAS, any cash consideration and diligence and other acquisition costs will
be payable from funds made available by the City to the DBRA; and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff seeks the Board’s approval to (i) enter into each of the
transactions described on Exhibit A, (ii) execute agreements with DTE and the Detroit
Land Bank substantially in the form of Exhibits B and C, respectively, (iii) and negotiate
and execute purchase agreements and/or other appropriate documentation relating to the
transactions described on Exhibit A with each of Detroit Public Schools, Michael Kelly,
and Hantz;
WHEREAS, the Project is consistent with the DBRA’s purposes of promoting the
revitalization and reuse of certain properties and is otherwise consistent with its powers
and purposes.

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the DBRA Board of Directors hereby
authorizes the DBRA to (i) enter into each of the transactions described on Exhibit A, (ii)
execute agreements with DTE and the Detroit Land Bank substantially in the form of
Exhibits B and C, respectively, as the same may be modified with the approval of DBRA’s
counsel and DBRA’s Authorized Agents executing same, (iii) and negotiate and execute
purchase agreements and/or other appropriate documentation relating to the transactions
described on Exhibit A with each of Detroit Public Schools, Michael Kelly, and Hantz.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the DBRA Board of Directors approves
DBRA’s actions required to be undertaken in connection with the transactions set forth on
Exhibit A, Exhibit B, and Exhibit C, as well as actions reasonably required to conduct
due diligence on and clear title to the properties to be acquired pursuant thereto.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that any one of the officers and any one of the
Authorized Agents of the DBRA or any two of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA shall
hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute all documents, contracts, or other
papers, and take such other actions, necessary or appropriate to implement the provisions
and intent of this Resolution on behalf of the DBRA.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that all of the acts and transactions of any officer or
Authorized Agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA, relating to matters
contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would have been approved by the
foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken prior to execution of these
resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed, approved and ratified.
April 17, 2019

 EXHIBIT A

Portions of Site 12
Seller: DTE
Property: Portion of former Conner’s Creek Power Plant (approximately 40
acres)
Agreement: Property Exchange Agreement between DTE, DBRA and City (see
Exhibit B)
Purchase Price:
$3.555 Million, payable through property exchanges for
City/DLBA-owned properties and/or cash
Inspection Period: 180 days
Closing: Within 30 days following completion of demolition of power plant (likely

March, 2020)
Additional approvals: City Council
Other: DBRA may request that the property be transferred directly to FCA,
subject to FCA’s consent
Parcels located in Sites 1, 8A, and 8B
Seller: Detroit Land Bank Authority
Agreement: Land Transfer Agreement between DBRA and DLBA (see Exhibit
C)
Property:
• Various properties located in Sites 8A and 8B for the Project (Exhibit A to
LTA)
• Various properties intended for property exchanges in order to secure
other parcels for the Project (Exhibit B to LTA)
Purchase Price: $1.00
Inspection Period: N/A

At DBRA’s request, when needed for Project or property exchange
closing, as applicable
Additional approvals: DLBA Board and City Council
Closing:

Other: DLBA has agreed to conduct quiet title actions on parcels intended for

use in the Project, at DBRA’s expense
Seller: Detroit Public Schools
Agreement: N/A
Property: 2952 and 2958 Beniteau
Purchase Price: $14,000
Inspection Period: N/A
Closing: Promptly following DPS Board approval

Additional approvals: DPS Board

 Seller: Michael Kelly and affiliated entities
Agreement: Purchase Agreement (Land Exchange) between Kelly, City and
DBRA to be negotiated
Property: 3873 St. Jean, 3963 St. Jean, 4621 St. Jean, 5732 Winslow (required
for another project)
Purchase Price: Property exchanges with City and DLBA Parcels
Inspection Period: N/A
Closing: Within 10 days of agreement

Additional approvals: City Council
Other: If additional interests on parcels required for the Project are discovered,
the parcels may be purchased for cash or additional property exchanges
Seller: Hantz
Agreements: Development Agreements between Hantz and City and Hantz and
DLBA (DBRA not a party)
Property: Various properties located in Sites 8A and 8B for the Project
Purchase Price: $1.00
Inspection Period: N/A
Closing: Within 10 days of agreement

Additional approvals: City Council and DLBA
Other: DBRA to accept parcels pursuant to Development Agreements entered
into by the City and DLBA

 EXHIBIT 
DTE Property Exchange Agreement

See attached.

EXHIBIT 
DLBA Land Transfer Agreement

See attached.

DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 19-04-130-17
FUNDING OF PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES AGREEMENT FOR
PLANNING SERVICES ON THE UNIROYAL SITE
WHEREAS, on June 15, 2005, the Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment
Authority (“DBRA”) entered into a Development Agreement (as amended, the
“Agreement”) with Bettis/Betters Development, LLC (the “Developer”) for the
property commonly known as the Uniroyal Site (the “Site”); and
WHEREAS, following numerous amendments extending the date of
closing, a previous assignment of the Agreement has been deemed null and void
and the date of Closing has been further extended to August 1, 2019; and
WHEREAS, Developer has requested to phase the acquisition and
development of land at the Site, requiring a master plan to be created for the
Site; and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff seeks to retain Skidmore, Owings and Merrill to
provide the necessary services for the creation of a master plan at a cost of One
Hundred Seventy Nine Thousand Four Hundred Eighty and 00/100
($179,480.00) Dollars (the “Service Fee”); and
WHEREAS, DBRA staff and the Developer have agreed that a 50/50
sharing of the cost of the Service Fee would be appropriate and the DBRA and
Developer will execute an amendment to the Agreement, or other funding
agreement, relating to the payment of Developer’s share; and
WHEREAS, with respect the DBRA’s share of the Service Fee, DBRA
staff seeks to enter into a funding agreement with the Economic Development
Corporation of the City of Detroit (“EDC”) as contemplated by the Interlocal
Agreement (the “Interlocal Agreement”) entered into between the DBRA and the
EDC on September 24th, 2013 relating to the implementation of the East
Riverfront Plan; and
WHEREAS, staff is requesting the DBRA Board approve (i) the negotiation
and execution of a professional services agreement with SOM to perform the
Services for an amount not to exceed the Service Fee; (ii) the negotiation and
execution of a funding agreement with the EDC pursuant to which the EDC will

 fund 50% of the Service Fee pursuant to the Interlocal Agreement; and (iii) the
negotiation and execution of an amendment to the Agreement, or other funding
agreement, relating to the payment by Developer of 50% of the Service Fee.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the DBRA Board of Directors
hereby approves the requests as outlined above.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that any two officers, any two of the
Authorized Agents or any one of the Officer and any one of the Authorized Agents
of the DBRA, shall hereafter have the authority to negotiate and execute a
professional service agreement with SOM, a funding agreement with the EDC, an
amendment to the Agreement or other funding agreement, and any and all other
documents, contracts or other papers, or take any and all actions, necessary or
appropriate to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of
the DBRA.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that all of the acts and transactions of any
Officer or Authorized Agent of the DBRA, in the name and on behalf of the DBRA,
relating to matters contemplated by the foregoing resolutions, which acts would
have been approved by the foregoing resolutions except that such acts were taken
prior to execution of these resolutions, are hereby in all respects confirmed,
approved and ratified.

April 17, 2019

 EXHIBIT A
UNIROYAL SCOPE OF WORK OVERVIEW

Base Scope
Stage 1: Project Analysis, Mapping & Programming (2 weeks)
Stage 2: Visioning & Master Planning Options (4 weeks)
Stage 3: Preferred Master Plan Concept (4 weeks)
The project will begin with Project Analysis, Mapping & Preliminary Programming, and
an analysis stage where we discover the physical, and stakeholder context for the
master plan. A key outcome of this stage is a opportunities and constraints map that
helps guide the physical planning of the project through all stages of work. Also,
important to this stage, and the entire project, will be the guiding principles that provide a
conceptual master plan for design strategies and decision making.
Next, in the Visioning & Master Planning Options stage, we generate two (2) master plan
concepts that respond to the various development and programmatic scenarios
identified in the analysis stage. Each master plan concept will address guiding principles
through a physical framework, and provide test fitting of program scenarios through
three-dimensional massing, plan diagrams and program adjacency options. The two
options will represent a preferred option, and a near term option, along with a high level
cost estimate. All cost estimates will be provided by others. We will create 3 wireframe
renderings (total) to illustrate the defining and differentiating elements of each vision
option.
In the third stage, Preferred Master Plan Concept, we further develop the master plan to
respond to the design criteria, and further produce compelling design visualizations and
prepare detailed strategies to help implement the vision.
Meetings:
Four in-person meetings with our design leadership.
Our kick off meeting to commence Stage 1 will be undertaken online, and will be
followed by two workshops in Detroit with the Bettis/Betters, DEGC and other City team,
and any relevant stakeholders invited by you.

 DBRA
Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street • Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
Phone: 313 963-2940
Fax:
313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 19-04-59-03
1322 BROADWAY BROWNFIELD PLAN: RECOMMENDATION TO CITY
COUNCIL TO TERMINATE PLAN
WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the “DBRA”)
was created pursuant to Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended (“Act
381”); and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Detroit (“City Council”) is the
governing body (as that term is defined by Act 381) of the DBRA; and
WHEREAS, on September 17, 2003, the DBRA Board of Directors approved the
1322 Broadway Brownfield Plan (the “Plan”) and recommended the approval of
the Plan to City Council; and
WHEREAS, on November 14, 2003, City Council approved the Plan; and
WHEREAS, on November 24, 2003, the Mayor of the City of Detroit approved
the Plan; and
WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(b) of Act 381 of 1996, as amended, permits a
governing body to terminate a brownfield plan or plan amendment for an eligible
property if the project for which eligible activities identified in the brownfield plan
or plan amendment fails to occur with respect to the eligible property for at least
2 years following the date of the resolution approving the brownfield plan or plan
amendment, provided that the governing body first does both of the following: (i)
Gives 30 days' prior written notice to the developer at its last known address by
certified mail or other method that documents proof of delivery attempted, and (ii)
Provides the developer an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting; and
WHEREAS, the “developer” for the Plan is 1322 Broadway Development
Company (the “Developer”); and
WHEREAS, the DBRA has determined that the project identified in the Plan
failed to occur within 2 years of City Council’s approval of the Plan; and
WHEREAS, the DBRA Board of Directors desires to recommend termination of
the Plan to City Council.

 NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, subject to the completion of the notice
requirement described in Section 14(8)(b)(i) of Act 381 and the provision to the
Developer of an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting pursuant to Section
14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the DBRA Board of Directors hereby recommends
termination of the Plan to City Council; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, subject to the termination of the Plan by City
Council, that the DBRA Board of Directors hereby authorizes the termination of
any other agreements or contracts between the Developer and the DBRA that
were executed in conjunction with the Plan; and
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and
any one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA, shall hereafter have the authority
to negotiate and execute any and all documents, contracts, or other papers
necessary to implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of
the DBRA.

April 17, 2019

 