PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

   

TO:

FROM:

DATE:

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, SUITE 500
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226-3437

PHONE 313-224-4550
CITY or DETROIT FAX 313'224-5505
LAW DEPARTMENT 

The Detroit City Council

C. Raimi, Law, on behalf of HRD

May 3, 2019

RESOLUTION SEEKING APPROVAL OF CONTRACT WITH DETROIT
REGIONAL CHAMBER FOUNDATION TO ADMINISTER THE
DETROIT PROMISE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM

The Law Department on behalf of HRD respectfully submits the attached

resolution seeking approval of a contract with the Detroit Regional Chamber
Foundation to administer the Detroit Promise Scholarship Program.

Resolution introduced by:

 

A RESOLUTION BY THE DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

RESOLUTION APPROVING CONTRACT WITH DETROIT REGIONAL CHAMBER

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

FOUNDATION TO ADMINISTER THE DETROIT

PROMISE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM 

The Detroit promise scholarship program provides for payment of post-
high school educational expenses for students needing ?nancial assistance
who have demonstrated academic achievement; and

The City has entered a contract with the Foundation to administer the
Program, subject to City Council Approval; and,

The proposed contract provides a three-year term and will be grant funded
in the sum of $500,000; and,

The Program will enable worthy students to obtain post-high school
education they otherwise could not afford; and,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT

That the contract between the City and the Foundation is hereby approved.

Alton James @itp at mettnit Brenda Goss-Andrews

Chai - - -
MCD CITY PLANNING COMMISSION 353335-33; 3221?,,
Vice Chair/Secretary 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center Gregory Pawlowski
Detroit, Michigan 48226 Frederick E. Russell, Jr.
Phone: (313) 224-6225 Fax: (313) 224-4336 

e-mail: 

 

May 3, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL

RE: Request Of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department to consider a text amendment
to the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 61, of the 1984 Detroit City Code for
proposed modi?cations that would require new and redevelopment to manage
stormwater to the performance standards Of the Post-Construction Stormwater
Managment Ordinance and to allow for site plan review authority for stormwater
management plans (RECOMMEND APPROVAL)

Before this Honorable Body is the request for a text amendment to the Zoning Ordinance to
further facilitate the proposed Post-Construction Stormwater Ordinance.

BACKGROUND

In 2017, City Council reviewed and approved the provisions of Ordinance NO. 37-17 commonly
referred to as the Fifth General Text Amendment (FGTA) to the Zoning Ordinance. The FGTA
included a vast number of amendments. One subset of the text amendments included what is
commonly referred to as the ?Waste Water and Greening Amendments.?

Those speci?c provisions implemented the following through the Zoning Ordinance: required a
permit for parking lots and driveways (61-4-135), required urban agriculture stormwater
drainage controls and barriers (61-12-334), required inlets for parking lot wheel stops and curbs
(61-14-153), required vegetative parking lot screening Opacity Of 75% (61-14-221), changed
provision for interior landscaping tO be triggered by lots that have capacity of 25 or more cars,
gave provision to allow for landscaped areas tO locate at grade level to capture stormwater runoff
or otherwise have inlets to allow in?ltration (61-14-223), and lastly the amendments added
language to allow for pervious materials to be used for street parking, loading and circulation
areas The amendments proposed at that time came as a ?rst phase Of Stormwater
amendments to the City Code.

The aforementioned zoning amendments that were adopted in 2017, were spurred by an initiative
that began March 1, 2013 when the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ)
issued the Detroit Water and Sewage Department (DWSD) and the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System (N PDES) of the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), a permit
(Permit NO. M10022802). The permit requires DWSD to develop and implement a Green
Infrastructure Plan for 17 speci?c outfalls along the Rouge River. DWSD submitted an updated

version of this Green Infrastructure Plan to the MDEQ on August 1, 2014. The 1Green
Infrastructure Plan is road map for implementing green infrastructure in the future.

The permit requires DWSD to invest $15 million in Green Infrastructure between 2013-2017 to
reduce 2.8 million gallons (MG) of storm water ?ow (during the two-year design storm). The
permit language identi?es a number of speci?c green infrastructure project types, including
downspout disconnections, demolition and removal of vacant structures, bioswales along
roadways and parking lots, tree planting and other projects.

NATURE OF PROPOSAL

Even more recentlyYour Honorable Body approved an amendment to
Chapter 56, of the 1984 Detroit City Code, Utilities, to adopt a Post Construction Stormwater
Ordinance. The proposal also gives provision for a Stormwater Management Design Manual, and
lastly the proposal ultimately requires Zoning Ordinance text amendments to allow DWSD to
have Site Plan Review authority to review the site plans of applicable developments.

CPC staff has worked with DWSD and their consultant and program manager, Tetratech,
through their process of drafting these documents and has given guidance on items related to the
proposed amendments, and especially as it relates to the Zoning Ordinance amendments.

Chapter 56 Utility Code Post Construction Stormwater Management Ordinance

In general, the Post Construction Stormwater Management Ordinance gives
provision to require ?Any development site with regulated construction activity that involves the
replacement or creation of'one?halfacre (21 780 square, feet) or more ofimpervious Stir/(face is
subject to the PCS WMO. DWSD may also require that any construction activity meeting certain
conditions (as speci?ed in the Code) must also complv with these requirements. 

The gives provision for stormwater management requirements and alternative
compliance measures for developments that cannot meet those requirements, such as in-lieu fees
and off-site stormwater projects that are equivalent to what would be required on the subject site.
These are options the ordinance provides for sites that demonstrate extraordinary dif?culty in
implementation of required practices.

The ordinance grants DWSD the authority to require a performance bond or other ?nancial
guarantees until the department can determine that stormwater control measures have been
established and installed correctly up to two (2) years after a certi?cate of occupancy is issued.

Lastly, the ordinance outlines protocols for required maintenance, operations and maintenance
plans, easements, records and drawing requirements, authority for right of entry and inspections
of developments, appeals, notices, civil penalties and ?nes and other remedies for violations.

Storm water Design Manual
The Stormwater Design Manual (SWDM) is a separate document given authority by the

 

1 Green infrastructure is a collection of storm water management approaches intended to soak up storm water where
it falls before it can enter the sewer system. It is green because these approaches, whether completely natural or
constructed, often use trees and native plants to soak up storm water. It is infrastructure because these approaches
work together to create a low-cost system for managing storm water.

 and provides consistency in design speci?cations, engineering methods, controls,
and performance and technical standards to support the development community and property
owners in understanding how to plan and build projects that comply with requirements under
Detroit?s 

The primary purposes of the SWDM is to allow DWSD to:

1) provide stormwater management site design guidance to help developers and property
owners meet requirements of the 

2) ensure uniformity in standards for Green Storm Infrastructure practices across the City

3) allow for ef?cient design review by DWSD along with appropriate City Departments

Chapters of the SWDM include technical advice, instruction and best practice for Regulatory
Requirements, Site Design and Stormwater Management, Hydrologic Procedures, Drainage
Conveyance, Soil Aggregates and Water, Detention Practices, Bioretention, In?ltration Practices
Permeable Pavement, Rainwater Harvesting, Living Roofs and Walls, Stormwater Wetlands and
Manufactured Treatment Systems.

3

Chapter 6] Zoning extAmendments

The requires that text amendments be made to the Detroit Zoning Ordinance in order
to give DWSD any authority as the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act MCL 110, statutorily
requires that proposed text amendments to Chapter 61, Zoning, to undergo at least one (1) public
hearing and be subject to review by CPC with report and recommendation prior to being acted
upon by City Council. CPC staff has been involved with DWSD and Tetratech throughout the
process and has worked to come to agreement on language appropriate for the Zoning
Ordinance.

The zoning amendments being proposed are largely straightforward and reinforce the 
Provisions being proposed apply to:

- Sec. 61-3-113, gives provision that development projects which meet the 
thresholds are subject to the Site Plan Review (SPR) process conducted by the Buildings
Safety Engineering Environmental Department.

0 Sec. 61-3-125 and sets provisions for site plans submitted by developers that
trigger the and references 56-3-102.

0 Sec. 61-3-127 and (6) add language to include copies application and/or permits
related to Stormwater be submitted to BSEED for SPR. Also adds language and reference
to require a Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan.

0 Sec. 61-3-141 adds language to give authorization for DWSD to participate in the site
plan review of development plans that are eligible through in zoning districts
that are under the purview of the Flaming and Development Department.

0 Sec. 61-3-142 adds language to give authorization for DWSD to participate in the site
plan review of development plans that are eligible through in zoning districts

that are under the purview of the Commission and the City Council

0 Sec. 61-3-168 amends the Zoning Ordinance to state that proposed developments shall
comply with the and references Chapter 56 Article Division 4.

The Post Construction Storrnwater Ordinance has also been reviewed by the Legislative Policy
Division and looks to be appropriate in accomplishing the objectives set forth by DWSD. Should
the Council have any questions, LPD will be happy to answer.

APPROVAL CRITERIA
Sec. 61-3-59 of the Zoning Ordinance specifies that decisions on zoning ordinance text
amendments shall be based on the following criteria:

(1) Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the stated purposes of this Zoning
Ordinance;

Sec. 61-1-5 sets forth criteria that a text amendment should address. Of those, the proposed text
amendment will serve to accomplish the following:

(2) Regulate the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of buildings,
structures, and land;

(8) Establish reasonable standards to which buildings, structures, and uses shall conform;

(10) Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage disposal, education,
recreation, and other public requirements;

Protect natural resources and environmentally sensitive areas and ensure that development
is consistent with applicable environmental laws and regulations;

Define the powers and duties of the administrative o?icers and bodies;

(15) Provide penalties for violations of the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance or any
subsequent amendment thereto; and

(2) Whether the proposed amendment will protect the health, safety, or general welfare of the
public; and

The proposed ordinance is for the health, welfare and safety of the general public, requiring
controls on stonnwater to decrease stormwater runoff that causes ?ooding and other undesirable
events due to impervious surfaces.

(3) Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or meets the challenge of some
changing condition, trend or fact.

The text amendment meets the challenge bringing City Code into compliance with the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System WPDES) of the US Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), mandate to come into compliance for our issued permit (Permit No. M10022802). The
permit requires DWSD to develop and implement a Green Infrastructure Plan for 17 speci?c
outfalls along the Rouge River. DWSD submitted an updated version of this Green In?'astructure

Plan to the MDEQ on August 1, 2014. Again, the 2Green Infrastructure Plan is road
map for implementing green infrastructure in the future.

PUBLIC HEARING RESULTS

The CPC public hearing was held on November 1St before to consider the Stormwater Chapter
61, Zoning text amendments. Two (2) Detroit residents and members of the Green Taskforce-
Water Subcommittee attended the public hearing and spoke in support of the proposed text
amendment.

RECOMMENDATION

The proposed text amendment meets the requirements to be eligible for approval. At its regular
meeting of November 1, 2018, the City Flaming Commission voted to recommend approval of
the subject text amendment request.

Respectfully submitted,

Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Director
Kimani Jeffrey, City Planner

Attachments:
Post?Construction Stormwater Ordinance
Stormwater Design Manual

Cc: Maurice Cox, Director, 
Karen Gage, 
David Bell, BSEED, Director
Gary Brown, DWSD Director
Palencia Mobley, DWSD, Deputy Director
Lawrence Garcia, Corp. Counsel
Kim James, Law Dept.
Daniel Arking, Law Dept.
Arthur emison, Chief of Services and Infrastructure

 

2 Green infrastructure is a collection of storm water management approaches intended to soak up storm water where
it falls before it can enter the sewer system. It is green because these approaches, whether completely natural or
constructed, often use trees and native plants to soak up storm water. It is infrastructure because these approaches
work together to create a low-cost system for managing storm water.

SUMMARY

An ordinance to amend Chapter 61 of the 1984 Detroit City Code, ?Zoning,? commonly
known as the Detroit Zoning Ordinance, to require areas of new development or redevelopment to
manage stormwater to the performance standards set forth by the Detroit Water and Sewage
Department and to authorize the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department to review and approve
stormwater management plans as part of the site plan review process by adding Sec. 61 -3-1 68 and
by amending Sec. 61?3?113, See. 61-3-125, Sec. 61-3-127, See. 61-3-141, and Sec 61-3-142.

 

 

Subdivision A. General.

See. 61-3-113 Applicability.

Applications for proposed developments that meet any one (1) or more of the applicability

criteria in this section shall be reviewed through the site plan review process. Developments that

do not meet any of the applicability criteria in this section shall be reviewed by the Buildings,

Safety Engineering and Environmental Department through its permitting process. However, site

plan review is not required for the construction or alteration of an individual single- or two-family

dwelling.

1) New construction that involves any one (1) of the following:




(0)






Any new development exceeding twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of
gross ?oor area, except that on land zoned M1, M2, M3, M4, or M5, the
threshold for industrial uses shall be thousand (50,000) square feet of
gross ?oor area; or

Projects with multiple principal structures on one zoning lot.

Any multiple-family residential or loft or town house development with
more than twelve (12) dwelling units.

Site Condominium developments.

Projects in a one hundred (100) year ?oodplain.

Any parking structure as de?ned in Sec. 61 -16?151 of this Code.

(Repealed).

(2) Additions and/or major structural alterations that involve any of the following:



Any development not exceeding twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of

gross ?oor area where the addition or alteration results in a cumulative total

 



(5)

(6)

(7)
(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13}

other, where the use immediately preceding the new use was from a different major
land use classi?cation.

Any Conditional, Regulated, or Controlled land use and any case before the Board
of Zoning Appeals as the body of ?rst jurisdiction.

Any use that has drive-up or drive-through facilities or a walk-up component.
Animated signs as provided for in Sec. 61 -6-71_of this Code.

Projects within any PD, SD3, or SD5 District. However, in the SD3, and SD5
Districts, alterations to an existing structure, that do not involve additions or major
structural alterations, qualify for ?expedited review? as provided for in Sec. 61-3-
121 of this Code.

Projects within the SD4 District that involve the following four (4) utility uses:
electric transformer station; gas regulator station; telephone exchange building;
water works, reservoir, pumping station, or ?ltration plant.

Projects seeking approval under the Alternative Residential Development Options
provisions of ARTICLE X111, Division 3 of this Chapter.

Urban farms and all other agricultural uses speci?ed as a conditional use in Sec.
61-12-79 ofthis Code.

Any new or newly established motor vehicle salesroom or sales lot for the sale of
used vehicles.

Development projects which meet the Dost-construction stormwater management

ap?ioahility thresholds_described at Sec. 48?2-101 of this Code.

Sec. 61?3?125. Proposed site plan.

The site plan shall depict or disclose the following speci?c information:

 

 

 

22-

(5)

(6)

Transformer location;

All mechanical equipment located outside the structure, which includes, but
is not limited to, condensing units, and roof top units;

(0) Pedestrian sidewalks, paths, and non?vehicle walkways;

Locations of all signage and all sign structures;

Proposed site lighting;

Proposed contour changes; and

(3) Proposed cutting, clearing, or retention of existing vegetation.

{tl Proposed limits of ?earth disturbance," as de?ned in Sec. 56?3-102 ofthis
Code. with square footage indicated.

Areas of ?impervious surface,? as de?ned in Sec. 56-3402 of this Code,
with square fo otaae indicated and with a distinction made between existing

and proposed impervious suriiaces.

 

Any proposed ?lling, draining, cutting, dredging, grading, clearing, or other
alterations that are proposed for wetlands, which shall be in accordance with Part
301 of the Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act
(NREPA), titled Inland Lakes and Streams, being MCL 324.30107 through MCL
32430113 and with Part 303 of the Michigan Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act (NREPA), titled Wetland Protection, being MCL
324.3 0307 through 324.30323;

Generalized location of proposed utilities including electrical, cable, telephone, gas

connections, water connections, sanitary sewer connections, and storm

 

. 

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)



Anticipated volume of truck traf?c and anticipated size of trucks regularly
servicing the premises, for adequacy of turning radius on site; and

Other statements as may be speci?ed by the reviewing body.

Geoteohnical study that is supplemented with Phase I Environmental Assessment,

if necessary;

Any baseline environmental assessment or Phase I environmental assessment that

may have been prepared for the subject site;

Traf?c Impact Study, as provided for in ARTICLE XIV, Division 4,0f this Chapter,

if required, that analyzes safety and ef?ciency of access, adequacy of driveways

and internal road systems, and impact on external roads;

As may be required by the Planning and Development Department, documentation

in advance, of compliance with the Operational Performance Standards, as

provided for in ARTICLE XIV, Division 7 of this Chapter.

Post-construction management plan, in accordance with CHAPTER

DIVISION 4. if 1160 mired thereunder.

Subdivision C. Authority to Review and Approve Site Plans.

Sec. 61?3?141. Planning and DeveIOpment Department.

Within the following zoning districts, the Planning and Development Department shall

have the power to review and approve preliminary and ?nal site plans: R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6,

B1, B2, B3, B4, BS, B6, M1, M2, M3, M4, M5, P1, TM, PR, SDI, SD2, SD3, and SD4 with

less than three (3) acres. The Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department is

authorized to participate in the review of all site plans. The Water and Sewerage Department is

authorized to participate in the review of all site plans. The Planning and Development Department

 

Sec. 61?3?1133. Criteria; stormwater management

The proposed development shall comply; with the nest-construction stormwater
management requirements set forth in Chapter 56, Article 1H. Division 4 of this Code.

Secs. 61-3468 61?3-169-61?3-170. Reserved.

Section All ordinances or parts of ordinances in con?ict with this ordinance are
repealed.

Section 3. This ordinance is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Detroit.

Section 4. This ordinance shall become effective on the eighth (8th) day after publication in

accordance with MCL 125.340l(6) and Section 4-118, paragraph 3 of the 2012 Detroit City Charter.

Approved as to Form:



Lawrence T. Garcia
Corporation Counsel

10

 

   
      

DBRA

HIDIVIKQPMIHT 

500 Griswold. Suite 2200
Detroit. MI 48226

May 2,2019

Honorable City Council

City of Detroit

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

Re: Termination of the 1322 Broadway Brownfield Redevelopment Plan
Dear Honorable Council Members:

The 1322 Broadway Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the ?Plan?) was approved by City
Council more than two years ago in 2003. The legal descriptions for the subject Plan are
attached (Exhibit A).

At the regularly scheduled April 17, 2019 DBRA Board of Directors meeting, DBRA staff
recommended termination of the Plan on the basis that the projects had failed to occur
with respect to the eligible property for at least two (2) years following the date of the
resolution approving the brownfield plan or plan amendment in accordance with Section
14(8)(b) of Act 381. The DBRA subsequently adopted a resolution (Exhibit B) approving
the termination of the Plan and authorizing the submission of a copy of its resolution to
request that City Council adopt a resolution terminating the Plan.

The DBRA, as authorized by City Council, sent a notification of termination of the Plan
(Exhibit C) in accordance with Section 

Authority's Request
The Authority is respectfully requesting the following action from the City Council:

May 7, 2019
Referral of the resolution terminating the Plan to Detroit City Council Planning and

Economic Development Standing Committee on May 9, 2019.

May 9, 2019
Consideration of the City Council?s Planning and Economic Development Standing

Committee to terminate the Plan and opportunity for the Developerto be heard during
public comment.

0.) May 14, 2019
City Council adoption of the Resolution (Exhibit D), terminating the Plan.

Sincerely,

m/K /c

Jenn er Kanalos
Authorized Agent

C: Detroit City Council
City Clerk
Marcel Todd
Irvin Corley, Jr.
David Whitaker
Malinda Jensen
Matthew Walters
Allen Rawls
Brian Vosburg
Stephanie Washington
DeAndree Watson

Exhibit A
Legal Descriptions of Plans to be Terminated

Exhibit A
1322 Broadway Development Corporation
Brown?eld Redevelopment Plan

ATTACHMENT 
Legal Descriptions of Eligible Property to which the Plan Applies

NE Broadway 30.land in front of plat of sec 9
Governor Judges Plan L34 P552 Deeds, 1/56 30.65 110.

Exhibit 
DBRA Resolution

Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street - Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

Phone: 313 963-2940

Fax: 313 963-8839

CODE DBRA 19-04-59-03

1322 BROADWAY BROWNFIELD PLAN: RECOMMENDATION TO CITY COUNCIL
TO TERMINATE PLAN

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (the was
created pursuant to Michigan Public Act 381 of 1996, as amended (?Act 381?); and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Detroit (?City Council?) is the governing body
(as that term is defined by Act 381) of the and

WHEREAS, on September 17, 2003, the DBRA Board of Directors approved the 1322
Broadway Brownfield Plan (the ?Plan?) and recommended the approval of the Plan to
City Council; and

WHEREAS, on November 14, 2003, City Council approved the Plan; and

WHEREAS, on November 24, 2003, the Mayor of the City of Detroit approved the Plan;
and

WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(b) of Act 381 of 1996, as amended, permits a governing
body to terminate a brownfield plan or plan amendment for an eligible property if the
project for which eligible activities identified in the brownfield plan or plan amendment
fails to occur with respect to the eligible property for at least 2 years following the date
of the resolution approving the brownfield plan or plan amendment, provided that the
governing body first does both of the following: Gives 30 days' prior written notice to
the developer at its last known address by certified mail or other method that documents
proof of delivery attempted, and (ii) Provides the developer an opportunity to be heard
at a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the ?developer? for the Plan is 1322 Broadway Development Company (the
?Developer?); and

WHEREAS, the DBRA has determined that the project identified in the Plan failed to
occur within 2 years of City Council?s approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, the DBRA Board of Directors desires to recommend termination of the Plan
to City Council.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, subject to the completion of the notice
requirement described in Section of Act 381 and the provision to the
Developer of an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting pursuant to Section
14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the DBRA Board of Directors hereby recommends termination of
the Plan to City Council; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, subject to the termination of the Plan by City Council,
that the DBRA Board of Directors hereby authorizes the termination of any other
agreements or contracts between the Developer and the DBRA that were executed in
conjunction with the Plan; and

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED that any two Officers, or any one of the Officers and any
one of the Authorized Agents of the DBRA, shall hereafter have the authority to
negotiate and execute any and all documents, contracts, or other papers necessary to
implement the provisions and intent of this resolution on behalf of the DBRA.

April 17, 2019

Exhibit 
Notice of Termination

Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold - Suite 2200

Detroit, MI 48226

Phone: 3 3 963-2940

Fax: 3l3 963-8839

 

April 3, 2019 SENT VIA CERTIFIED MAIL

Mr. Emmit Hagood, 

1322 Broadway Development Company
1322 Broadway

Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Notice of Intent to Terminate Brown?eld Plan for the 1322 Broadway Redevelopment Project
Mr. Hagood:

Per Act 381 of 1996 Section 14 this letter is to inform you that the Detroit City Council has authorized this notice to inform
you that termination of the Brown?eld Plan for the 1322 Broadway Redevelopment Project (the ?Plan?) will be considered in no less
than thirty days.

On September 17, 2003 the DBRA adopted and on November 14, 2003 the Detroit City Council approved the Plan.

It is our understanding that the project as described in the Plan has failed to occur. Because the project failed to occur, the
Brown?eld Plan will be terminated the for the subject project per Act 381 of 1996 Section 14 Because no Eligible Activities
have been submitted, a new Brown?eld Plan may be established in the future.

While you are welcome to speak at any public meeting of City Council regarding the proposed termination, the following public
meetings have been tentatively scheduled at the Coleman A. Young Municipal Center, 2 Woodward Avenue, 13?h Floor, Detroit, MI
48226 regarding the termination of the Plan where, should you desire, you will also have an opportunity to be heard:

- Thursday, May 9, 2019 at 10:00 AM Detroit City Council Planning 8: Economic Development Standing Committee
. Tuesday, May 14, 2019 at 10:00 AM Detroit City Council of the Whole Meeting

In no event would any termination be effective until at least 30 days after the date of this notice.

Sincerely,

Ana/?53

ennifer Kanalos
Authorized Agent

CC: Rebecca Navin, DEGC
Brian Vosburg, 
Ngozi Nwaesei, Lewis Munday
Brittney Hoszkiw, MEDC
Tom Wackerman, ASTI

mu, 



US. Postal Service?
CERTIFIED RECEIPT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
   

 

        

 

  
  

  

:3 Domestic Mail Only
Fl; For dulwery Information. ulslr our website an mow.usps.cam'z
l'l-l 
l-l'I 
2 5 4.1?
ExtraSJNInea?kahonkbanmhumw-w 
I: UMnan-mm I
Postmark
. ammonium? . Hora
., D. 
. 
El" 0 Pontiac
4.0 I
I: Tat-I Forag39mm
a. Eud?' WL 
ma?a "fmj?haipb 
a 27. any492?26
El 0 PS Form 3800. April 2015 PSN ovrcuo-ooDetroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority

500 Griswold - Suile 2200
Delroil, Ml 43226

Exhibit 
City Council Resolution

EXHIBIT 

RESOLUTION
TERMINATING THE BROWNFIELD PLAN
OF THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE 1322 BROADWAY REDEVELOPMENT 

 

City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

 

WHEREAS, pursuant to 381 PA 1996, as amended (?Act 381?), the City of Detroit
Brownfield Redevelopment Authority (?Authority?) has been established by resolution of
the City Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City Council?) for the purpose of promoting the
revitalization of eligible properties in the City of Detroit; and

WHEREAS, on November 14, 2003, City Council approved the Brownfield Plan
for the 1322 Broadway Brownfield Redevelopment Plan (the ?Plan?); and

WHEREAS, the eligible property described in Exhibit A, attached hereto, is the
eligible property subject to the Plan; and

WHEREAS, Section 14(8)(b) of Act 381 permits a governing body to terminate a
brownfield plan or plan amendment for an eligible property if the project for which eligible
activities were identified in the brownfield plan or plan amendment fails to occur with
respect to the eligible property for at least two (2) years following the date of the resolution
approving the brownfield plan or plan amendment, provided that the governing body first
does both of the following: gives 30 days? prior written notice to the developer at its last
known address by certified mail or other method that documents proof of delivery
attempted, and (ii) provides the developer an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council is the governing body (as that term is defined by Act
381) of the Authority; and

WHEREAS, the Authority?s staff has confirmed that no eligible costs for the project
have been submitted pertaining to the eligible activities identified in the Plan within two
(2) years of City Council?s approval of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, on April 17, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Authority adopted a
resolution recommending termination of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, on October 3, 2017, City Council authorized the Authority, on behalf
of City Council, to manage and/or administerthe notices required by Act 381 in connection
with any brownfield plan or plan amendment terminations; and

WHEREAS, the required notice of the termination of the Plan was given in
accordance with Section of Act 381, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 
and

WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 14(8)(b)(ii) of Act 381, the developer
identified in the Plan was provided with an opportunity to be heard at a public meeting on
May 9, 2019.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, THAT:

1. The Plan is hereby terminated by City Council in accordance with Section 14(8)(b)
of Act 381.

2. City Council hereby ratifies the termination, if any, of any agreements or contracts
between the developer of the Plan and the Authority that were executed in
conjunction with the Plan, including, but not limited to, the reimbursement
agreement.

The City Clerk is requested to submit one (1) certified copies of this Resolution to
the DBRA, 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, MI 48226

AYES: Members

 

NAYS: Members

 

RESOLUTION DECLARED ADOPTED.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

WAIVER OF RECONSIDERATION IS REQUESTED

I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of a resolution
adopted by the City Council of the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, State of Michigan, at
a regular meeting held on 2019, and that said meeting was conducted
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in full compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, being Act 267, Public Acts of Michigan, 1976, as amended, and that
the minutes of said meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as
required by said Act.

 

Janice Winfrey, City Clerk
City of Detroit
County of Wayne, Michigan

And Wills\Arts DBRA Backup\Correspondence\City Council Resolutions\2019 City Council Resolutions\1322 Broadway Termination
Authorization CC resolution.docx

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVE., SUITE 1100
DETROIT. Ml 48226

CITY OF DETROIT PHONE 313-628-2535

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER E-Mail: OCFQ detrnitmi. m,

   
 

DETROIT

 

 

April 29, 2019

Detroit City Council

2 Woodward Avenue

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Transfer of Jurisdiction Surplus of Real Property
450 W. Congress, Detroit, MI 48226 Formerly Known as the Millennium Parking Garage

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Municipal Parking Department has recently requested that the
Finance Department transfer jurisdiction of certain City-owned real property at 450 W.
Congress, Detroit, MI, formerly known as the Millennium Parking, (the ?Property?) to the
Planning and Development Department to administer as surplus real property.

The Property is currently zoned PCA Restricted Central Business District and is nine stories tall
with approximately 28,600 square feet of space. The building is surplus because this facility is
not essential as a public asset, and the operating and capital costs associated with the facility
exceed the revenue that is realized. intends to assume jurisdictional control over the
Property for sale to 450 Associates LLC for use as a parking garage. The proceeds of such sale
will support economic deve10pment that creates thousands of new jobs in Detroit, affordable
housing and capital improvements to other City parking facilities.

Pursuant to Sec. 14-8-3 of the Detroit City Code, it is hereby requested by the Finance
Department that Detroit City Council approve the transfer of jurisdiction over the Property to
Additionally, pursuant to Sec. Sec. 14-8-4, it is hereby requested by that the
Property be deemed surplus and available for sale.

 

 

Respectfully submitted,
OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
I
I John Naglink/U Maul'fce D. Cox
3* Chief Deputy CFO Finance Director Director

cc: S. Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce), S. Brinkmann (HRD), J. Bryant (DBA)

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the Municipal Parking Department has jurisdiction over certain City of
Detroit real property located at 450 W. Congress, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?) as further described
in the attached Exhibit and

WHEREAS, MPD has requested that the Finance Department transfer jurisdiction of the Property
to the Flaming Development Department to administer as surplus real property; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Development Department deems the Property not essential to the
City and therefore requests that the real property be deemed surplus and be offered for sale/lease;
now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that in accordance with 14-8-3 of the Detroit City Code, Detroit City Council
hereby approves the transfer of jurisdiction of the Property from the MPD to the Planning 
Development Department; and be it further

RESOLVED, that in accordance with 14-8?4 of the Detroit City Code, Detroit City Council
hereby deems the Property surplus real property that may be offered for sale/lease by the Planning
Development Department.

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
02000153.
CONGRESS LOTS 8 THRU 12 EXC TRIANG PT BG 4.92 FT ON LINE AND 
39.94 FT AT A ON LINE OF SD TRIANG PT BLK 12 MAP OF THE WESTERN ADDN
L7 P164 CITY RECORDS 2/68 ALSO TRIANG PT OF LOT 1 BG 12.08 FT ON 
LINE AND 98.06 FT AT A ON LINE OF SD TRIANG PT MILITARY RESERVE L5
P218 CITY RECORDS 2/58 28,988 SQ FT

02000154.
CONGRESS TRIANG PT OF 13 BG 4.92 FT ON LINE AND 39.94 FT AT A

ON LINE OF SD TRIANG PT BLK 12 MAP OF WESTERN ADD L7 P164 CITY
RECORDS 2/68 1 EXC TRIANG PT BG 12.08 FT ON LINE AND 98.06 FT AT
A ON LINE OF SD TRIANG PT MILITARY RESERVE L5 P218 CITY RECORDS, 
2/58 39.92 138

Street Address[es]: 450 W. Congress

{00005629}

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224?1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT 

    

 

 

 

April 29, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Agreement with FCA and DBRA
Fiat Automotive Projects

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority and
FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately
$2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the
?Proj ects?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City. It is anticipated that
the Projects will result in the creation of approximately 4,950 additional CA jobs in the City, as
well as increase business and economic opportunities for related supplier and support industries.

The City proposes to enter into that certain agreement with the DBRA and CA, a summary of
which is included as Exhibit A to the attached resolution (the Agreement?). The FCA
Agreement codi?es the obligations of CA, the City and the DBRA required to accomplish the
Projects, including but not limited to: (1) assemblage of land for transfer to CA, (2)
m, construction of certain road improvements and site preparation activities, (3) the City?s
?m commitment to provide certain economic development incentives to FCA and vacate certain streets
and alleys, (4) construction and operation of the Projects and (5) commitment to
provide certain job opportunities.

As a part of land assemblage efforts, DBRA will acquire approximately 208 parcels of
land, more or less, from the City in exchange for the payment to the City of up to Nine
Hundred Sixty Five Thousand Ninety Three and 00/100 Dollars based on the land
value assigned to each parcel by the City of Detroit Assessor as re?ected in the 2018 City property
tax records, upon the terms and conditions of a separate land transfer agreement and subject to
certain other conditions and subordinations. Following certain environmental due diligence,
remediation, and other site preparation activities, DBRA will convey these properties and other
properties acquired from other parties to CA for the Projects.

 

We hereby request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution that approves the FCA
Agreement in furtherance of the Projects.

3

    

uric Cox, Directo
Planning and Development Department

cc: S. Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, Detroit City Council has received a copy of that certain Agreement for the
Development of Mack Assembly Plant Agreement?) that is by and among the City of
Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority and FCA US
LLC and now therefore be it

WHEREAS, a summary of the FCA Agreement is attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit A for convenience; now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that the FCA Agreement is hereby approved by Detroit City Council; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Mayor, or his authorized designee, is hereby authorized to execute the FCA
Agreement, substantially in the form that was given to Detroit City Council, and to execute and
deliver such other instruments as may be necessary or convenient to carry out the intents and
purposes of the FCA Agreement and this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Mayor is authorized to execute any required instruments to make and
incorporate technical amendments or changes to the FCA Agreement (including but not limited to
corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular
parcels or funds) in the event that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required
due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise during the term of the FCA
Agreement, provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the FCA
Agreement; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the FCA Agreement, including any amendments or changes made thereto, will
be considered con?rmed when executed by the Mayor, or his authorized designee, and approved
by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

EXHIBIT A

SUMMARY OF FCA AGREEMENT
Agreement for the Development of the Mack Assembly Plant

FCA ?3 Project:

FCA will complete construction and commence operations of the Mack Plant by no later than
December 1, 2022 (under certain delay conditions, the deadline may be extended to December 1,
2023).

The project is intended to create approximately 3,850 net new full-time employees in the operation of
the Mack Plant, plus another projected 1,100 jobs as part of the planned Jefferson North Assembly
Plant retooling project.

Land Assembly:

Purchase and Sale of Parcels: DBRA is delivering parcels in three categories: (1) delivering
City-owned parcels to (2) purchasing a number of parcels from third parties, then conveying
those parcels to (3), facilitating the transfer of parcels directly from third party owners to FCA,
without entering the chain of title.

0 In connection with each parcel to be conveyed to CA, the will facilitate rezoning (as
necessary), conduct Phase I environmental studies and conduct additional environmental testing
as directed by CA.

0 DBRA will also conduct certain environmental remediation and site preparation activities on
parcels to be delivered to CA.

DBRA is also taking down the berm west of the Mack Plant property, immediately to the west of St.
Jean Street, between East Warren Avenue and Kercheval Avenue, and will construct a sound barrier in
its place, to better separate the plant campus from the adjacent area and mitigate potential noise
impacts from the project.

The City will vacate portions of St. Jean Street Avenue, as well as partial sections of the East Vernor
Highway, Charlevoix Street, Goethe Street, Conner Lane and East Can?eld Street rights of way so
that those- vacated rights of way can be incorporated into the project?s footprint.

?Phi-Moms Commitments: Subject to collective bargaining commitments, FCA will use good faith efforts
to provide Detroit residents the opportunity to apply for production jobs in accordance with the following:

Initial Application Process: DESC has agreed to support aspects of CA's talent needs as they relate
to recruiting, pre-screening and vetting, and work-readiness training related to production jobs with a
value of at least $2 million.

0 CA will work with DESC to develop an initial application process that gives Detroit residents
the opportunity to apply for production jobs, subject to FCA providing priority to UAW
candidates.

111110511: 

0 Subject to priority being given to the UAW candidates, FCA will, in cooperation with DESC,
open speci?ed Windows exclusively for Detroit residents (anticipated to be 1 - 2 weeks each) to
apply for production jobs (?rst, to Detroit residents who reside in the geographic areas most
impacted by the project due to their proximity to the Mack Plant, second, to all other Detroit
residents, including individuals who have successfully completed the DESC readiness program as
a result of a criminal conviction, or who are military veterans).

I Hiring After Initial Application Process: After the initial application process is completed, FCA will
consider continuing to provide the above-referenced application priorities for DESC candidates if
FCA and DESC mutually agree in writing on the terms of such, including DESC continuing to
provide in-kind support services to FCA.

Financial Commitments:

I CA has projected a $1.6 billion investment in the Mack Plant, and a $900 million investment in the
Jefferson North Assembly Plant.

I The City, in partnership with the State, has offered a $107,590,000l ?nancial package, which
constitutes the ?Municipal Project Funds? available for all activities under the Development
Agreement.

0 The City?s cash contribution consists of $36 million of City bond proceeds, $7.09 million in funds
available from asset sales and a $7.5 million loan to the DBRA, payable from TIF revenues.
The City has requested $57 million in grants and loans from the State to support site preparation.

0 In addition, the City has contributed approximately $14.35 million worth of land for land exchanges
to acquire certain parcels for contribution to the project.

Elm mains in the 

0 FCA has agreed to report the various revenues produced by the project in the form of City income tax
from new jobs, property tax increases (net of abatements and TIF capture), and growth in corporate
City income tax as a result of expanded operations.

0 If the City does not recoup its approximately $57.4 million direct investment ($43.09 million
in cash granted, $14.35 million in land) within thirty years, FCA will pay the City the
shortfall.

II If FCA does not commence operations of the Mack Plant by December 1, 2023 (and its failure is
con?rmed through the arbitration process built in to the document) title to the contributed property
may re-vest in the DBRA by either (1) a right of reverter, with respect to properties that are conveyed
by the DBRA or (2) the enforcement of a ?Grant of Rights? which functions like a reverter, but with
respect to property conveyed directly by third parties to FCA.

I If FCA (prior to the City?s recoupment of its investment or within 15 years, whichever is later) ceases
operations of the plant for a period of sixty (60) consecutive months, the DBRA has the opportunity
to re-purchase a 58-acre assembling including the former Conners Creek Power Plant property for fair
market value.

 

The State component only represents State funds requested by the City in support of the project.

?'iz'rn?ni: "Nico 

I If (prior to the City?s recoupment of its investment) FCA seeks to re-sell any parcels prior to the
recoupment of the City?s investment, it must determine and notify the DBRA that the sale will result
in similar use of the property, or receive City approval. In either case, the DBRA receives 75% of the
sale proceeds.

Q?l??h?tzl? 611 :0 Anon:

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 
(313) 224-1310


   
 

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT

 

May 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Funding Agreement with DBRA Loan to DBRA I Land Transfer Agreement with DBRA
In Support of Mack 1 Plant, Mack 2 Plant, Jefferson North Assembly Plant Projects

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit City Of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority and FCA US
LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately $2.5 billion in
Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Projects?) to expand certain
industrial automotive manufacturing in the City. It is anticipated that the Projects will result in the creation
of approximately 4,950 additional FCA jobs in the City, as well as increase business and economic
opportunities for related supplier and support industries.

 

 

In support Of progressing the Projects forward, the City wishes to: (1) provide certain funding to the DBRA
under a ?nding agreement, (2) loan certain funds to the DBRA and (3) transfer certain City-owned parcels
to the DBRA under a land transfer agreement; all of which are vital to bringing the Projects to fruition.
Attached hereto are two (2) separate resolutions approving the agreements and the loan as summarized

below:

0 Resolution 1 Funding Agreement and Loan to the DBRA

The City and the DBRA wish to enter into that certain funding agreement to provide for the City?s
transfer of Thirty Three Million and Ninety Thousand and 00/100 Dollars to the
DBRA to assist in paying the cost of certain activities to be performed by DBRA in support of the

em 2'3? -. . .
i r-tFI; hub Pr?j?ects (the ?Funding Agreement?).
The City also Wishes to provide a loan to the DBRA in the amount of Seven Million Five Hundred
Thousand and 00/ 100 Dollars for a period not to exceed thirty (30) years, at a rate
of interest not less' than one percent per annum on the outstanding amOunt thereof (the
The Loan shall payable from tax increment revenues captured by the DBRA 
pursuant to a brown?eld redevelopment plan and Act 381 Work Plan relating to a portion of the
Projects and shall be non-recourse to DBRA. The terms of the Loan shall be set forth in a loan

agreement between the City and the DBRA that will ?nalized at a later date.

0 Resolution 2 Land Transfer Agreement with DBRA

The City and the DBRA wish to enter into that certain land transfer agreement to convey
approximately 208 parcels of land to the DBRA in exchange for the payment to the City
of up to Nine Hundred Sixty Five Thousand Ninety Three and 00/ 100 Dollars (the
553' ?Purchase Price?), based on the land value assigned to each parcel by the City of Detroit Assessor
as re?ected in the 2018 City property tax records (the ?Land 'l'I'aIIsl'er Agreement?). Such payment
will initially be made by a promissory note solely payable from TIR pursuant to a brown?eld

 

 

redevelopment plan and Act 381 Work Plan relating to a portion of the Projects. Further, 
payments to the City on the promissory note shall be subordinate to: the repayment of obligations
of the DBRA to the City and the Michigan Strategic Fund on account of loans anticipated
to be made by the City and MSF to DBRA for the Projects and (ii) disbursements permitted by Act
381 and/or applicable DBRA or MSF guidelines for administrative fees, state and/or local revolving
fund contributions, and other similar purposes. In the event the TIR remaining after the repayment
of the above referenced payment obligations and permitted disbursements are not suf?cient to pay
the Purchase Price in the promissory note shall be non-recourse to the DBRA.

The City is hereby requesting that your Honorable Body adopt the attached two (2) resolutions that approve
the above referenced Funding Agreement, Loan, Land Transfer Agreement and the sale of City-owned
parcels to the DBRA in support of the Projects.

Respectfully submitted,

   

curicc Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department

cc: S. Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

RESOLUTION 1

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Detroit (the ?City?) does hereby determine that it is
necessary to seek the assistance of the City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority, an
instrumentality of the City (the in land assembly activities aimed at attracting industrial
economic development projects in the City (each a ?Proj ect?); and

WHEREAS, the DBRA from time to time has the opportunity to acquire and/or prepare land in the
City (?Property?) for the purpose of contributing such Property to one or more Projects, providing jobs
for residents of the City, generating signi?cant private ?nancial investment in the City and creating
other economic bene?ts for the City; and

WHEREAS, in preparation for a Project, the DBRA may be required to acquire portions of Property
(including but not limited to purchase options), conduct surveys, environmental assessments,
geotechnical and title work, as well as other miscellaneous site readiness and due diligence activities,
and retain professional services necessary and ancillary thereto, related to the acquisition,
possession or conveyance of Property (collectively, ?Activities?); and

WHEREAS, in connection with this request, the City has identi?ed ?nds in an amount not to exceed
Thirty?Three Million Ninety Thousand Dollars ($33,090,000) to pay the cost of Activities to be
performed by DBRA (the ?Funds?); and

WHEREAS, in connection with this request, additional funds in an amount not to exceed Twenty
Million Dollars ($20,000,000) may be required to pay the cost of Activities to be performed by DBRA
(the ?Additional Funds?); and

WHEREAS, in connection with the application of the Funds for the payment of Activities by the
DBRA, and (ii) the potential application of the Additional Funds for the payment of Activities by the
DBRA, the City Council of the City deems it necessary to authorize the Mayor or the Chief Financial
Of?cer of the City (each an ?Authorized Of?cer?) to enter into a funding agreement substantially in
the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the ?Funding Agreement?) and to authorize such actions as shall
be necessary to implement its terms; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Brown?eld Redevelopment Financing Act, Act 381, Michigan Public
Acts of 1996, as amended, the City may transfer funds to the DBRA in anticipation of repayment by
the and

WHEREAS, the City Council seeks to transfer ?nds in an amount not to exceed Seven Million Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($7,500,000) in anticipation of repayment by the DBRA (the 
Loan?) and to delegate to the Authorized Of?cers the authority to ?nalize the terms of the DBRA Loan
in accordance with the parameters set forth in this resolution.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1. Approval of Fundingr Agreement. The Funding Agreement substantially in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit A is hereby approved.

2. Authorization_ to ?mding of Effectiyeness. Each
Authorized Of?cer is hereby authorized to execute the Funding Agreement on behalf of the City and
identify appropriated funding necessaly to satisfy the Funding Agreement. The City Council

 

acknowledges that the Funding Agreement shall become effective upon its approval and execution by
both the City and the DBRA.

3. Authorization of Other Actions in Connection with Fundingr Agreement. The Authorized
Of?cers and such other of?cials, agents and employees of the City are authorized and directed to take
all other actions necessary or advisable to deliver the Funding Agreement to the DBRA and implement
the terms thereof, including but not limited to causing the transfer of some or all of the Additional
Funds pursuant to the Funding Agreement, if necessary for purposes of a Project; provided that if any
such Additional Funds are transferred as provided herein, such transfer must occur not more than one
(1) year from the effective date of the Funding Agreement.

4. Authorization of DBRA Loan: Parameters. The DBRA Loan is hereby authorized in an amount
not to exceed Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($7,500,000) for a period of not to exceed
thirty (30) years from the ?rst payment, at a rate of interest not less than one percent per annum
on the outstanding amount thereof.

5. DBRA Loan Agreement: Delegation to Authorized Of?cers. The full and ?nal terms and
conditions of the DBRA Loan shall be set forth in an agreement between the City and the DBRA (the
Loan Agreement?). Each Authorized Of?cer is authorized to execute and deliver the DBRA
Loan Agreement on behalf of the City.

6. Source of Repayment of DBRA Loan. The DBRA Loan shall be repaid out of tax increment
revenues captured and received by the DBRA for the related Project and pledged to the repayment of
the DBRA Loan, as shall be set forth in the DBRA Loan Agreement.

7. Conditions to Deliveiv of DBRA Loan. Notwithstanding anything in this resolution to the
contrary, delivery of the DBRA Loan shall be conditioned upon the City Council?s ?nal approval of a
Brown?eld plan in connection with the Project or Projects to which the proceeds of the DBRA Loan
will be applied.

8. Authorization of Other Actions in Connection with DBRA Loan. The Authorized Of?cers and
such other of?cials, agents and employees of the City are authorized and directed to take all other
actions necessary or advisable to ?nalize and deliver the DBRA Loan Agreement to the DBRA,
implement the terms thereof and deliver the DBRA Loan.

9. Rescission. All resolutions and parts of resolutions insofar as they con?ict with the provisions
of this resolution be and the same hereby are rescinded.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

RESOLUTION 1 EXHIBIT A

FUNDING AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
AND THE CITY OF DETROIT
(ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS)

THIS FUNDING AGREEMENT ("Agreement") executed this day of 
2019, is an agreement by and between The City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
(the a Michigan public authority and body corporate organized and existing pursuant to
Act 381 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1996, as amended, and the City of Detroit, a Michigan
municipal corporation (the ?City?). The City and the DBRA may also be known individually as a
?Party? or collectively as the ?Parties?.

WHEREAS, the DBRA from time to time has the opportunity to acquire and/0r prepare
land in the City (?Property?) for the purpose of contributing such Property to one or more industrial
economic development projects in the City (each a ?Project?), providing jobs for residents of the
City, generating signi?cant private ?nancial investment in the City and creating other economic
bene?ts for the City; and

WHEREAS, in preparation for a Project, the DBRA may be required to acquire portions
of Property (including but not limited to purchase options), conduct surveys, environmental
assessments, geotechnical and title work, as well as other miscellaneous site readiness and due
diligence activities, and retain professional services necessary and ancillary thereto, related to the
acquisition, possession or conveyance of Property (collectively, ?Activities?); and

WHEREAS, in recognition of the bene?ts conferred to the City and its residents and
taxpayers, the City Council has determined it is in the best interest to provide a portion of the
funding for the public contribution to one or more Projects, and speci?cally Activities related
thereto.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual duties and obligations of the Parties,
the suf?ciency of which is hereby acknowledged, it is agreed that:

1. After approval and execution of this agreement as provided in section 13 hereof, the City shall
transfer to the DBRA funds in the aggregate amount of not to exceed Thirty-Three Million
Ninety Thousand Dollars ($33,090,000) (the ?Funds?) from Appropriations 20507 and
21001 to pay the cost of Activities to be performed by the DBRA in connection with one
or more Projects.

2. After approval and execution of this agreement as provided in section 13 hereof and (ii) a
determination by the Chief Financial Of?cer of the City that additional funds are necessary to
pay the cost of Activities to be perfomied in connection with one or more Projects, the City
may transfer to the DBRA additional funds in the aggregate amount of not to exceed Twenty
Million Dollars ($20,000,000) (the ?Additional Funds,? together with the Funds, the ?Total

10.

11.

12.

Funds?) from lawfully available funds on hand of the City to pay the cost of Activities to
be performed by the DBRA in connection with one or more Projects.

The transfer described in paragraph 1 hereof shall be made not less than one 1) day and not
more than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of execution hereof.

In the event that the Chief Financial Of?cer of the City determines that some or all of the
Additional Funds are necessary to pay the cost of Activities to be performed in connection
with one or more Projects, the transfer described in paragraph 2 hereof shall be made not less
than one (1) day and not more than one year from the date of execution hereof.

The DBRA shall use the Funds and the Additional Funds, if any, only for Activities related to
Property in connection with one or more Projects within one year ?'om the date such Funds
or Additional Funds are received by the DBRA, which may include reimbursement for costs
incurred by the DBRA in connection with such Activities performed prior to the date on which
such Funds or Additional Funds are received, including such Activities performed prior to the
date of execution hereof.

In the event and to the extent any portion of the transferred Funds or Additional Funds is not
used by the DBRA for Activities related to Property in connection with a Project within three
years from the date such Funds or Additional Funds are transferred, such unused portion shall
be returned to the City as soon as practicable thereafter and returned on a pro rata basis to the
appropriation or appropriations ?om which such unused portion was transferred.

The DBRA shall provide quarterly reports to the City Council on the expenditure of the Total
Funds on the Projects. The report shall be provided within one month following the end of
each ?scal year quarter until all of the Total Funds have been spent or returned.

In connection with any third-party agreement relating to any Activities for which the DBRA
requires indemni?cation from such third party, the DBRA shall require such third party to
indemnify both the City and the DBRA.

In connection with any third-party agreement relating to any Activities for which the DBRA
requires such third party to maintain certain insurance coverages, the DBRA shall require the
applicable insurance policy or policies to name the ?City of Detroit? as an additional insured.

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts. All such counterparts
shall be deemed originals and together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

This instrument contains the entire agreement between the Parties respecting the subject
matter of this Agreement, and all prior negotiations and agreements are merged herein.
Neither Party nor its agents have made any representations except those expressly set forth
herein, and no rights or remedies are or shall be acquired by the Parties by implication or
otherwise unless expressly set forth herein.

This Agreement may be amended at any time by mutual agreement of the Parties; provided,
that no amendment to this Agreement will be effective unless it is in writing, expressly

13.

makes reference to this Agreement and is executed by a duly authorized representative of
each Party and is approved by City Council.

This Agreement will become effective upon its approval and execution by both the City
and the DBRA and expire on either the date on which all of the Total Funds have been
spent in accordance herewith or (ii) the date on which the full unused portion has been
returned to the City as described in paragraph 4 hereof.

(remainder of page left blank intentionally; signatures commence on next page)

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, DBRA and the City, by and through their duly authorized
representatives, have executed this Agreement as of the year and date ?rst written above.

Approved as to Form Only:
Counsel to the DBRA

By:

 

Approved as to Form Only:
Corporation Counsel, City of Detroit

By:

 

33 75762.5\158 122-00001

THE CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, a
Michigan public authority and body corporate.

By:

 

Print Name:

 

Its:

CITY OF DETROIT, a Michigan municipal
corporation

By:

 

Print Name:

 

Its:

RESOLUTION 2
BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
and FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately $2.5
billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Projects?) to
expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City; and

WHEREAS, in support of the Projects, the City wishes to transfer certain City-owned parcels as more
particularly described in that certain land transfer agreement by and between the City and the DBRA
attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit A (the ?Land Transfer Agreement?); and

WHEREAS, the City-owned parcels to be transferred to the DBRA pursuant to the Land Transfer
Agreement shall be known herein as the ?City Parcels?; now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the Land Transfer Agreement; and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the sale of the City Parcels to the DBRA for
the purchase price of up to Nine Hundred Sixty Five Thousand Ninety Three and 00/100 Dollars
based on the land value assigned to each parcel by the City of Detroit Assessor as re?ected
in the 2018 City property tax records (the ?Purchase Price?); and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Planning and Development Department Director, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute the Land Transfer Agreement and issue quit claim deeds for the sale of
the City Parcels, as well as execute such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect the
transfer of the City Parcels to the DBRA consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee is authorized to execute any required
instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim deeds (including
but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of
particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due
to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the City Parcels,
provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that the Purchase Price shall be paid to the City at closing in the form of a promissory note
solely payable from certain tax increment revenues captured by the DBRA pursuant to a brownfield
redevelopment plan and Act 381 Work Plan relating to a portion of the Projects (the ?Promissory Note?);
and be it further

RESOLVED, that payments to the City on the Promissory Note shall be subordinate to: the
repayment of obligations of the DBRA to the City and the Michigan Strategic Fund on account of
loans anticipated to be made by the City and MSF to DBRA for the Projects and (ii) disbursements permitted
by Act 381 and/or applicable DBRA or MSF guidelines for administrative fees, state and/or local revolving
fund contributions, and other similar purposes; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Detroit City Council approves that in the event the TIR remaining after the

repayment of the above referenced payment obligations and permitted disbursements are not sufficient to
pay the Purchase Price in full, the Promissory Note shall be non-recourse to the DBRA.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

R?Soiu+ion 2- M?i A

LAND TRANSFER AGREEMENT
(Industrial Land Assembly Project: Mack Assembly Plant)

This Land Transfer Agreement ("Agreement") made this day of 2019,
by and between the CITY OF DETROIT, a Michigan public body corporate, acting by and
through its Planning Development Department (hereinafter referred to as the "City"), and the
CITY OF DETROIT BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, a Michigan
public body corporate organized and existing under the authority of Act 381 of the Public Acts of
Michigan 1996, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the 

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the DBRA was organized by the City pursuant to Act 381 of Michigan Public
Acts of 1996, as amended (?Act 381?), in order to, among other things, promote the revitalization,
redevelopment, and reuse of certain property, including, but not limited to, tax reverted, blighted,
or functionally obsolete property; and

WHEREAS, the City has previously requested assistance from the DBRA in acquiring
and/or preparing land in the City for the purpose of contributing such land to one or more industrial
economic development projects in the City, providing jobs for residents of the City, generating
signi?cant private ?nancial investment in the City and creating other economic bene?ts for the
City; and

WHEREAS, the DBRA anticipates entering into a development agreement (the
?Deve10pment Agreement?) with the City and CA US, LLC (the ?Company?) relating to the
construction by the Company of a new assembly plant at the site of its current Mack Engine Plant
located at Mack and St. Jean, with an estimated investment of $1.6 billion and creation of
approximately 3,850 net new full-time jobs (the ?Project?); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Development Agreement, the DBRA will assist
the Company with the assembly 01?200 acres of market?ready land to support the Company?s
operations at the Project site for Project-related activities such as employee parking, trailer
niarshailing, and ?nished vehicle storage; and

WHEREAS, the City is the owner of certain vacant parcels of land (the ?Parcels?)
comprising the sites described on the attached Exhibits A-l through A-S (each individually a
?Site? and collectively, the ??Sites") which Sites are in the vicinity ofthe Project site; and

WHEREAS, certain streets and alleys adjacent to the Parcels have been previously vacated
or will be vacated in connection with the Project (all such heretofore or hereinafter vacated streets
and alleys, the ?Streets and Alleys?), including as may be necessary and so elected by DBRA any
portion of those Streets and Alleys described in Exhibit and

WHEREAS, in furtherance of the Development Agreement, the DBRA has agreed to
purchase the Sites, including any and all right, title and interest in any then vacated Streets and

Alleys (collectively, the ?City Property,? which City Property, to the extent not otherwise
described, shall include the City?s fee interests within the boundaries described in Exhibit .A-7)
from the City, for subsequent site preparation activities by the DBRA and conveyance to and
development by the Company; and

WHEREAS, in order to secure certain privately owned properties for the Project, the City
and the DBRA and the DBRA and The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit
(the have entered into a series a related agreements with Fodale Group and Associates,
Road Land, LLC and Trident Huber, LLC relating to the sale of certain properties owned
by the DBRA, the City, and the EDC (collectively the ?Soave Agreements?), the sale proceeds of
which will be deposited into a Site Prep Escrow (as de?ned the Soave Agreements) and used in
accordance with the terms of the Soave Agreements; and

WHEREAS, the DBRA, the EDC and the City shall share the sale proceeds from the Soave
Agreements remaining in the Site Prep Escrow in the manner described herein; and

WHEREAS, in recognition of the bene?ts conferred to the City and its residents and
taxpayers, the City Council of the City (the ?City Council?) has determined that the conveyance
of the City Property for the Project is in the best interest, and the City has agreed to transfer the
City Property to the DBRA, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 7(3) of Act 381, the City may transfer the City Property
to the DBRA anticipation of payment of the Purchase Price (as de?ned below) by the and

WHEREAS, the City Council, by resolution dated May 2019, attached hereto as
Exhibit B, has authorized entering into this Agreement and the City and the DBRA have
determined that entering into this Agreement is consistent with the public purposes and
responsibilities of the DBRA, and (ii) is in the best interests of the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the covenants
and agreements hereinafter contained, it is mutually agreed as follows:

ARTICLE I

1.01 521$. Subject to the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement, the DBRA
agrees to purchase and the City agrees to convey the City Property for the Purchase Price (as
de?ned below). The DBRA may request, from time to time, the conveyance of all or a portion of
the City Property and, following such request, such conveyance shall be made by one or

more quit claim deeds executed by the City in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.

1.02 Purchase Price. The ?Purchase Price? shall be an amount up to Nine Hundred
Sixty-Five Thousand Ninety-Three ($965,093) and 00/100 Dollars, based on ?land value?
assigned to each Parcel by the City of Detroit Assessor, as re?ected in the 2018 City prOperty tax
records . The Purchase Price shall be paid to the City pursuant to the terms of a promissory note,
executed by the DBRA for the bene?t of the City (the ?Promissory Note?), which Promissory
Note shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the City. The Promissory Note shall be payable
solely from tax increment revenues (the captured by the DBRA pursuant to a brown?eld

redevelopment plan and Act 381 Work Plan relating to the Project; provided, however that such
repayment shall be subordinate to the repayment of obligations of the DBRA to the City and
the Michigan Strategic Fund on account of loans anticipated to be made by the City and MSF to
DBRA for the Project and (ii) disbursements permitted by Act 381 and/or applicable DBRA or
Michigan Strategic Fund guidelines for administrative fees, state and/or local revolving fund
contributions, and other similar purposes. The City acknowledges and agrees that in the event the
TIR remaining after the repayment of the above referenced payment obligations and permitted
disbursements are not suf?cient to pay the Purchase Price in full, the Promissory Note shall be
non-recourse to the.

1.03 Title Commitment. The DBRA, at its option, may obtain a commitment for an
owner's title insurance policy issued by a responsible title insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Michigan to insure the title to any City Property, subject only to
such conditions and exceptions as are provided for herein and reasonably acceptable to the DBRA.
The cost of such title commitment and a policy issued pursuant to it, if any, shall be paid by the
DBRA. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event DBRA
determines, upon examination of the above-referenced title commitments, that a quiet title action
(a is necessary or desirable in order to provide insurable title to any Parcel to the
Company, the DBRA is hereby authorized to transfer such Parcel or Parcels to the Detroit Land
Bank Authority on an interim basis solely for the purpose of carrying out a QTA with
respect to the affected Parcel or Parcels. Further, upon the election, the City agrees to
transfer any Parcel or Parcels as indicated by the DBRA directly to the DLBA for purposes of
carrying out a QTA, and such Parcel or Parcels shall be conveyed to the DBRA following the
conclusion of such QTA.

 

1.04 Payment ofMiscellaneous Expenses. The DBRA shall be responsible for recording
and paying any fees for recording the quit claim deed and any other documents that the City
determines must be recorded in connection with the transfer and development of the City Property.
DBRA, at its option, may have the Company pay the costs contemplated by this Section 1.04.

 

1.05 Condition of City Property. The DBRA shall accept the City Property 
without any representation by or warranty from the City as to the condition of the Property.

ARTICLE II

2.01. Development. The DBRA shall transfer the City Property to the Company in
accordance with the terms of the Development Agreement.

202 Certi?cate of Completion. Upon the Company?s delivery to the DBRA of the
Operations Notice and recording of the Certi?cate of Completion (each as de?ned in the
Development Agreement) pursuant to Section 10.01 of the Development Agreement and notice to
the City of such delivery, the obligations pursuant to this Agreement shall been deemed
satis?ed, and the parties shall have no further obligations hereunder, except as provided in the
Promissory Note described in Section 1.02 of this Agreement.

 

ARTICLE 

3.01 Termination of Development Agreement Prior to Convevance to DBRA. If, prior
to the City?s conveyance of any City Property to the DBRA, the Development Agreement is
canceled or terminated for any reason whatsoever, the City may cancel this Agreement, whereupon
the DBRA shall have no further rights and the City shall have no further obligations hereunder
with respect to the City Property not yet conveyed to the DBRA. Within thirty (30) days after
receipt of written notice from the City of such cancellation, the DBRA shall acknowledge such
cancellation and the termination of the rights and the City?s obligations hereunder with
respect to the City Property not yet conveyed to the DBRA. In the event that the DBRA fails to
acknowledge such cancellation and the termination in accordance with this Section 3.01, the
DBRA hereby irrevocably appoints the City as its attorney-in?fact with power to execute any and
all documents necessary to acknowledge such cancellation and the termination, including but not
limited to a quit claim deed from the DBRA conveying to the City any and all right, title, and
interest in and to the not yet conveyed City Property.

3.02 Termination of Development Agreement Prior to Conveyance to Company. If,
prior to the conveyance of any City Property to the Company, the Development
Agreement is canceled or terminated for any reason whatsoever, the DBRA shall, within thirty
(30) days after receipt of written notice from the City, convey the not yet conveyed City Property
back to the City by quitclaim deed and assign to the City the interest in such City
Property. In the event that the DBRA fails to convey the not yet conveyed City Property and
assign its interest in such City Property in accordance with this Section 3.02, the DBRA hereby
appoints the City its attorney-in?fact, with full power and authority to execute any and all
documents necessary or convenient to convey such City Property by quitclaim deed from the
DBRA to the City and otherwise assign the interest in such City Property to the City.

3.03 Election by Company not to Receive Citv Property. In the event that the Company
elects, pursuant to the Development Agreement, not to accept any portion of the City Property
after such City Property has been conveyed by the City to the DBRA and before such City Pr0perty
is conveyed to the Company, the DBRA shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice
from the City, convey such City Property back to the City by quitclaim deed and assign to the City
the interest in such City Property. In the event that the DBRA fails to convey such City
Property and assign its interest in such City Property in accordance with this Section 3.03, the
DBRA hereby appoints the City its attorney-in-fact, with full power and authority to execute any
and all documents necessary or convenient to convey such City Property by quitclaim deed ?om
the DBRA to the City and otherwise assign the interest in such City Property to the City.
Any City Property not requested to be reconveyed to the City pursuant to the foregoing may be
conveyed by the DBRA to a party other than Company in connection with an alternative
development plan upon the prior written consent of the PDD Director.

3.04 Failure to Provide Operations Notice Subsequent to Conveyance. In the event of
the Project Default (as de?ned in the Development Agreement), the DBRA shall, within thirty (30)
days after receipt of written notice from the City, exercise its rights under Section 11.03 of the
Development Agreement in accordance with the terms of the Development Agreement. In the

event that the DBRA exercises a remedy under the Development Agreement that includes the
exercise of reversionary rights for all or a portion of the City Property, the DBRA shall, within
thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice from the City, convey such City Property back to the
City by quitclaim deed and assign to the City the interest in such City Property. In the
event that the DBRA fails to convey such City Property and assign its interest in such City Property
in accordance with this Section 3.04, the DBRA hereby appoints the City its attomey-in-fact, with
full power and authority to execute any and all documents necessary or convenient to convey such
City PrOperty by quitclaim deed from the DBRA to the City and otherwise assign the 
interest in such City Property to the City. Any City Property not requested to be reconveyed to the
City pursuant to the foregoing may be conveyed by the DBRA to a party other than Company in
connection with an alternative development plan upon the prior written consent of the PDD
Director.

3.05 Remedies. The rights and remedies provided to the City in Sections 3.01, 3.02,
3.03 and 3.04 hereof shall be cumulative of all other remedies at law or in equity, and shall not be
the exclusive remedy of the City against the DBRA for default by the DBRA under this Agreement.
In the event of the City breaches any of its obligations under this Agreement, then, after reasonable
notice and opportunity to cure, the DBRA shall have the right solely to seek injunctive relief,
speci?c performance or other equitable remedies for the City?s breach of this Agreement, and in
no event and under no circumstances shall the DBRA be entitled to monetary damages.

ARTICLE IV

4.01 Independent Contractors. The relationship of the City and the DBRA is, and shall
continue to be, an independent contractor relationship and no liability or bene?ts such as workers'
compensation, pension rights or liabilities, insurance rights or liabilities or other provisions of
liabilities arising out of or relating to a contractor for hire or employer/ employee relationship shall
arise or accrue to either party or either party's agents or employees with respect to the City as a
result of this Agreement or the Development Agreement.

4.02 Mutual Cooperation. The parties acknowledge that mutual cooperation will be
required to accomplish the intent and objectives of this Agreement, and therefore agree to
cooperate mutually in the development of the City Property in order to best serve the respective
interests of the public, the City and the DBRA.

ARTICLE 

5.01 Soave Ageements. If, upon the expiration of the Site Prep Escrow, as described in
the Soave Agreements, there are any sale proceeds remaining in the Site Prep Escrow, such
remaining sale proceeds shall be distributed by the DBRA to each of the City, DBRA and EDC in
a manner that is proportionate to the value of the property transferred by each of the City, DBRA
and the EDC under the Soave Agreements.

ARTICLE VI

6.01 No Individual Liability. No of?cial or employee of the City shall be personally
liable to the DBRA or its successor in interest in the event of any default or breach by the City of
any of the terms of this Agreement. No of?cial or employee of the DBRA shall be personally
liable to the City or its successor in interest in the event of any default or breach by the DBRA of
any of the terms of this Agreement.

6.02 Con?ict of Interest. No of?cer or employee of the City or the DBRA shall have
any personal interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement, nor shall any such of?cial or employee
participate in any decision relating to this Agreement which affects his or her personal interest or
the interest of any corporation, partnership or association in which he or she is directly or indirectly
interested.

7.01 Fair Employment Practices. In accordance with the United States Constitution and
all federal legislation and regulations governing fair employment practices and equal employment
opportunity, including but not limited to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (P.L. 88-352, 78
STAT. 252) and United States Department of Justice Regulations (28 C.F.R. Part 42) issued
pursuant to the title, and in accordance with the Michigan Constitution and all state laws and
regulations governing fair employment practices and equal employment opportunity, including but
not limited to the Michigan Civil Rights Act (1976 PA 220), the DBRA agrees that it will not
discriminate against any person, employee, consultant or applicant for employment, training,
education, or apprenticeship connected directly or indirectly with the performance of this
Agreement with respect to his or her hire, promotion, job assignment, tenure, terms, conditions or
privileges of employment or hire because of his (her) religion, race, color, creed, national origin,
age, sex, height, weight, marital status, public bene?t status, sexual orientation or handicap that is
unrelated to the individual?s ability to perform the duties of a particular job or position. The DBRA
recognizes the right of the United States and the State of Michigan to seek judicial enforcement of
the foregoing covenants against discrimination against itself or its subcontractors.

Breach of the terms and conditions of this section may be regarded as a material breach of
this Agreement.

ARTICLE 

8.01 Notices. When either party desires to give notice to the other in connection with
and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such notice shall be given by certi?ed mail
and shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, and such notice shall be addressed as follows:

For the City:

City of Detroit Planning and Development Department
Coleman A Young Municipal Center

2 Woodward Avenue

8th Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48226
ATTENTION: Director

With a copy to:

City of Detroit Law Department
Coleman A Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue

5th Floor

Detroit, Michigan 48226
ATTENTION: Corporation Counsel

For the DBRA:

City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200

Detroit, Michigan 48226

ATTENTION: Authorized Agent

With a copy to:

Detroit Economic Growth Corporation
500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200
Detroit, Michigan 48226
ATTENTION: General Counsel

or such other address with respect to either such party as that party may, from time to time,
designate in writing and forward to the other as provided herein.

8.02 Force Maieure. In the event that the City or DBRA shall be delayed, hindered in,
or prevented from the performance of any act required hereunder by reason of strike, lock-outs,
labor troubles, inability to procure materials, failure of power, riots, insurrections, acts of terror,
acts of war, the failure or default of the other party, or for other reasons beyond their control, then
performance of such acts shall be excused for the period of the delay and the period for the
performance of any such act shall be extended for a period equivalent to the period of such delay.

8.03 Amendments. The City or the DBRA may consider it in its best interest to modify
or to extend a term or condition of this Agreement. Any such extension or modi?cation, which is
mutually agreed upon by the City and the DBRA, shall be incorporated in written amendments to
this Agreement. Unless otherwise stated in the amendment, such amendments shall not invalidate
this Agreement, nor relieve or release the City or the DBRA from any of its obligations hereunder.

8.04 Merger Clause. This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement and shall
supersede all prior agreements and understandings both written and oral between the parties with
respect to the subject matter and the City Property.

8.05 Provisions Not Merged With Deed. No provision of this Agreement is intended to
or shall be merged by reason of any deed transferring title to the City Property from the City to the
DBRA or from the DBRA to the City.

 

8.06 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which
shall be deemed an original, and such counterparts shall constitute one and the same agreement.

8.07 Compliance with Applicable Law. The parties agree to comply with all applicable
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, rules, ordinances, other laws and requirements now in
effect or hereinafter enacted, including but not limited to City of Detroit Executive Orders Nos.
2016-1 and 2014-5, if applicable, and if necessary, shall execute and deliver such supplementary
documents and agreements as are necessary to meet said requirements.

 

8.08 Michigan Law. This Agreement is being entered into and executed in the State of
Michigan, and all questions with respect to the construction of this Agreement and the rights and
liabilities of the parties hereunder shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of the laws
of the State of Michigan and, where applicable, Federal law.

8.09 Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence with respect to all provisions of this
Agreement.

8.10 Non-Waiver. No waiver at any time of any provision or condition of this
Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any of the other provisions or conditions hereof, nor
shall any waiver of any provision or condition be construed as a right to subsequent waiver of the
same provisions or conditions.

8.11 Effective Date. The ?Effective Date? of this Agreement shall be the date of
execution hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the DBRA by and through their duly authorized
of?cers and representatives, have executed this Agreement on the date ?rst above written.

CITY OF DETROIT BROWN FIELD
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY,
a Michigan public authority and body corporate

By:
Name:
Its: Authorized Agent

 

 

By:
Name:
Its: Authorized Agent

 

 

STATE OF MICHIGAN 
ss.
COUNTY OF WAYNE 

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of 
201 8, by and
each an Authorized Agent of the City of Detroit
Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority, a Michigan public body authority and body corporate, on
its behalf.

 

 

 

Notary Public, County, Michigan
Acting in Wayne County Michigan
My Commission expires:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
DBRA Counsel

By:

 

Rebecca A. Navin, Esq.

CITY OF DETROIT,

a Michigan municipal corporation acting by
and through its Planning and Development
Department

By:

 

Maurice Cox, Director

STATE OF MICHIGAN 
)ss.
COUNTY OF WAYNE 

The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me on 2018,
by Maurice Cox, the Director of the Planning and Development Department on behalf of the City
of Detroit, a municipal corporation.

 

 

Notary Public, Wayne County, Michigan
My commission expires:

Approved as to form:

 

Name:
Title:

 

 

Authorized by City Council resolution adopted

 

This Instrument Drafted by:
Rebecca Navin, Esq.

500 Griswold, Suite 2200
Detroit, MI 48226

EXHIBIT A?l

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Site 1
Parcel ID ADDRESS LEGAL DESCRIPTION
ST JEAN 79 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21044048. 3911 ST JEAN 21/537 30X 140
21044036. 3991 ST JEAN ST JEAN 4 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044028. 4139 ST JEAN ST JEAN 12 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044062. 3827 ST JEAN ST JEAN 65 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 X140
21044061. 3833 ST JEAN ST JEAN 66 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/53730x 140
21044060. 3839 ST JEAN ST JEAN 67 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 140
21044059. 3843 ST JEAN ST JEAN 68 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 X140
ST JEAN 7O LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21044057. 3857 ST JEAN 21,537 30X 140
21044056. 3863 ST JEAN ST JEAN 71 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 X140
ST JEAN 72 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21044055. 3867 ST JEAN 21/537 30X 140
21044051 3881 ST JEAN ST JEAN 74 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 140
21044052. 3887 ST JEAN ST JEAN 75 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 X140
21044051. 3893 ST JEAN ST JEAN 76 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 FLATS, 
21/537 30 X140
ST JEAN 77 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21044050. 3899 ST JEAN 21,537 30X 140
21044049. 3905 ST JEAN ST JEAN 78 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 140
ST JEAN 80 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21044047. 3917 ST JEAN 21/537 30X 140
21044046. 3923 ST JEAN ST JEAN 81 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 X140
ST JEAN 82 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21044045. 3929 ST JEAN 21,537 30X 140
21044044- 3935 ST JEAN ST JEAN 83 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 X140 
21044043. 3941 ST JEAN ST JEAN 84 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 140
21044042. 3947 ST JEAN ST JEAN 85 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21/537 30 X140
21044038. 3981 ST JEAN ST JEAN 2 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044037. 3987 ST JEAN ST JEAN 3 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044035. 3997 ST JEAN ST JEAN 5 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044034. 4103 ST JEAN ST JEAN 6 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X140

 

 

 

Exhibits Page 1 of 21

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21044033. 4109 ST JEAN ST JEAN 7 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 2l/538 30 140
21044032. 4117 ST JEAN ST JEAN 8 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044031. 4121 ST JEAN ST JEAN 9 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X140
21044030. 4127 ST JEAN ST JEAN 10 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044029. .4135 ST JEAN ST JEAN 11 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 X140
21044027. 4145 ST JEAN ST JEAN 13 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044025. 4157 ST JEAN ST JEAN 1 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 140
21044024. 4163 ST JEAN ST JEAN 2 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 140
21044023. 4169 ST JEAN ST JEAN 3 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 140
21044022. 4177 ST JEAN ST JEAN 4 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 140
21044021. 4183 ST JEAN ST JEAN 5 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 140
21044020. 4189 ST JEAN ST JEAN 6 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 140
21044019. 4193 ST JEAN ST JEAN 7 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X140
21044016. 4413 ST JEAN ST JEAN 12 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 X140
21044015. 4415 ST JEAN ST JEAN 13 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 140
21044014. 4425 ST JEAN ST JEAN 14 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 30 140
21044012. 4437 ST JEAN ST JEAN 2 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044011. 4441 ST JEAN ST JEAN 3 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044010. 4447 ST JEAN ST JEAN 4 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044009. 4455 ST JEAN ST JEAN 5 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044008. 4461 ST JEAN ST JEAN 6 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044007- 4467 ST JEAN ST JEAN 7 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044006. 4471 ST JEAN ST JEAN 8 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044005. 4479 ST JEAN ST JEAN 9 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044004. 4485 ST JEAN ST JEAN 10 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044003. 4491 ST JEAN ST JEAN 11 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044002. 4497 ST JEAN ST JEAN 12 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044001. 4503 ST JEAN ST JEAN 13 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21044000. 4509 ST JEAN ST JEAN 14 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21043982. 4669 ST JEAN 4413ANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 

ST JEAN 3 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21043981. 4677 ST JEAN 21/548 31 X140

ST JEAN 2 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21043980. 21/548 31 140 

ST JEAN 1 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21043979. 4687 ST JEAN 21/548 3144 X140

ST JEAN 14 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21043992. 4607 ST JEAN 21/548 32 X140
21043991. 4613 ST JEAN ST JEAN 13 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71PLATS, 

21/548 32 140

ST JEAN 11 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 

31043989. 4625 ST JEAN 21/548 32 X140

ST JEAN 10 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21043988. 4631 ST JEAN 21/548 32 X140
21043987. 4639 ST JEAN ST JEAN 9 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 

21/548 32 140

 

Exhibits Page 2 of 21

 

 

ST JEAN 8 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21043986. 4645 ST JEAN 21/548 32 140
ST JEAN 7 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21043985. 4651 ST JEAN 
ST JEAN 6 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21043984. 4657 ST JEAN 21/54832x140
21044018. 4199 ST JEAN ST JEAN 8 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 35.30 140
ST JEAN THAT NLY PART FINNS SUB ALSO LYG OF ST JEAN AVE BG 35.03 FT FTG PLAT OF
21043999 4513 ST JEAN THE SUB OF THE ST ST JEAN FARM L1 P214 PLATS, 217525
35.03 140
21043978_ 4697 ST JEAN ST JEAN 1 JOHN WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, 
35.17 140
21043998. 4519 ST JEAN ST JEAN 1 BEAUFAITS SUB L30 P4 PLATS, 21/546 37 140
21043997. 4527 ST JEAN ST JEAN 2 BEAUFAITS SUB L30 P4 PLATS, 21/546 37 140
21043996. 4533 ST JEAN ST JEAN 3 BEAUFAITS SUB L30 P4 PLATS, 21/546 36.86 140
ST JEAN 14.03 FT 87 86 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75
21044041? 3959 ST JEAN PLATS, 21/537 42.08 140
21043981 4663 ST JEAN ST JEAN 5 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21/548 31 140
21044017. 4403 ST JEAN ST JEAN 11 FINNS SUB L29 P43 PLATS, WCR 21/539 48.14 140
21043995. 4543 ST JEAN ST JEAN 1 MORAN SUB L35 P27 PLATS, WCR 21/547 55.43 140
21043994. 4555 ST JEAN ST JEAN 1 SCHEPKE SUB L34 P78 PLATS, 21576 55.43 140
ST JEAN 1 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 5.75 FT 88
21044039. 3973 ST JEAN LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 21/537 59.19 
140
ST JEAN 7 THRU 1 SELLING MAYS SUB L46 P1 PLATS, 
21043993. 4561 ST JEAN ?685 221.72 X140
3 WARREN 74 FT OF 16 JOHN WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, 
21002599. 11238EWARREN 30x74
8- WARREN -E 74 FT OF LOT 15JOHN WALSHS SUB L28 P17
21002600 11232 WARREN PLATS, 21/550 30 74
21043977. 4711 STJEAN ESSTJEANS46 19 S46 18 JOHNHWALSHS SUB 46X
S-E WARRENN JOHN 
21002597' 11250 WARREN WALSHS SUB L28 P17 PLATS, 21/550 60 28
21002598. 11244EWARREN SWARREN-ES74FT17JOHNHWALSHS SUB L28P17 
21/550 30x74
ST JEAN 73 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21044054. 3873 ST JEAN 21/537 30 X140
ST JEAN 69 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 
21044058. 3851 ST JEAN 
21044026. 4151 ST JEAN ST JEAN 14 FINNS SUB L27 P83 PLATS, WCR 21/538 30 140
21044013. 4431 ST JEAN ST JEAN 1 FINNS SUB L29 P72 PLATS, WCR 21/545 30 140
21043990. 4621 ST JEAN ST JEAN 12 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 
21/548 32 140
21044040. 3963 ST JEAN ST JEAN 22.30 FT OF 88 14.02 FT OF 87 LIEBERMANS

HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 21/537 36.32 140

 

 

Exhibits Page 3 of 21

 

EXHIBIT A-2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Site 1A
Parcel ID LEGAL DESCRIPTION 7
21043977. 4711 STJEAN 19846 18 JOHNHWALSHS SUB L28 P17 21/550 46X
S-E 74FT 19N28FT0FS 74FT 18 JOHNH
3002591 ?250 WALSHS SUB L28 P17 FLATS. 21/550 60 28
21002598. 11244EWARREN SWARREN-ES74 FT 17 JOHNHWALSHS SUB L28 P17 
21/550 30 74
WARREN 74 FT OF 16 JOHN WALSHS SUB L28 P17 FLATS, 
_21002599. 11238EWARREN 30x74
21002600 11232 WARREN WARREN -E 74 FT OF LOT ISJOHN WALSHS SUB L28 P17

 

 

 

2l/550 30 74

 

 

Exhibits Page 4 of 21

EXHIBIT 

Site 8

 

Parcel ID

21000721-54

ADDRESS

LEGAL DESCRIPTION

 

2115 ST JEAN

KERCHEVAL 8 HUTTON NALLS SUB OF LOT 5 L23 P82 PLATS, 
21/349 40.04 115A

 

ST JEAN 2 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21044150. 2239 ST JEAN x150
21044115. 2941 ST JEAN ST JEAN 45 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150
ST JEAN 1 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
__21044108' 2989 ST JEAN PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 150
21044095 11235 GOETHE 237135131? 29.57 FT 11 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575
ST JEAN 15 FT 5 15 FT 6 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS,
21044166. 2139 ST JEAN 30x150
ST JEAN 15 FT 4 15 FT 5 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS,
21044165. 2149 ST JEAN 30x150
21044163. 2161 ST JEAN JEAN 2 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, 21/349 30
21044162. 2167 ST JEAN $713; JEAN 1 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, 21/349 30
21044160 2179 ST JEAN JEAN 12 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
21044159. 2185 ST JEAN ?13; JEAN 11 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
21044158' 2191 ST JEAN 10 SUB L23 P76 30
21044157. 2197 ST JEAN 312713;) JEAN 9 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
21044156. 2203 ST JEAN 212113;) JEAN 8 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
21044155. 2209 ST JEAN 32118; JEAN 7 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
2?044154- 2215 ST JEAN $1350 JEAN 6 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
21044151 2221 ST JEAN 1:713; JEAN 5 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
21044152. 2225 ST JEAN $271351?) JEAN 4 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
21044151. 2231 ST JEAN ?1553 JEAN 3 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
21044149 2245 ST JEAN 2113;) JEAN 1 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 21/367 30
210441 48' 2251 ST JEAN ST JEAN 1 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
150
21044145, 2511 ST JEAN ST JEAN 7 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150
21044144. 2515 ST JEAN ST JEAN 8 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 

21/36130 X150

 

Exhibits Page 5 of 21

 

 

ST JEAN 9 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21044143. 2521 STJEAN 

21044142. 2527 ST JEAN ST JEAN 10 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150

ST JEAN 11 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21044141. 2533 ST JEAN 21/36130x150

21044140. 2539 ST JEAN ST JEAN 12 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044139. 2545 ST JEAN ST JEAN 13 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150

21044138_ 2551 ST JEAN ST JEAN 14 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044131 2557 ST JEAN ST JEAN 15 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044136 2563 ST JEAN ST JEAN 16 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044135. 2567 ST JEAN ST JEAN 17 DWYER, SCULLIN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150

21044134_ 2573 ST JEAN ST JEAN 18 DWYER, SCULLIN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044131 2581 ST JEAN ST JEAN 19 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044132 2587 ST JEAN ST JEAN 20 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

210441 31- 2591 ST JEAN ST JEAN 21 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150

21044130. 2597 ST JEAN ST JEAN 22 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044126 2623 ST JEAN ST JEAN 26 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044125, 2629 ST JEAN ST JEAN 27 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044124_ 2635 ST JEAN ST JEAN 28 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044121 2641 ST JEAN ST JEAN 29 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150

21044122. 2647 ST JEAN ST JEAN 30 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150

21044121. 2653 ST JEAN ST JEAN 31 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044120 2657 ST JEAN ST JEAN 32 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044118. 2923 ST JEAN ST JEAN 42 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 150

21044117_ 2929 ST JEAN ST JEAN 43 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150

21044116. 2935 ST JEAN ST JEAN 44 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130x 150

21044114 2947 ST JEAN ST JEAN 46 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 

 

 

 

21/36130 X150

 

Exhibits Page 6 of 21

 

 

ST JEAN 47 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21044113. 2951 ST JEAN 
21044110. 2977 ST JEAN ST JEAN 51 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 

21/36130 150

ST JEAN 2 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044107' 2995 ST JEAN PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 150

ST JEAN 3 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044106 3001 ST JEAN PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 150

ST JEAN 4 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044105 3007 ST JEAN FLATS. WCR 21/368 30 150

ST JEAN 5 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044104 3013 STJEAN 30x 150

ST JEAN 6 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044101 30213TJEAN PLATS, 30X 150

ST JEAN 7 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044101 3025 ST JEAN PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 150

ST JEAN 8 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
2104410" 3033 ST JEAN PLATS, 30x 150

ST JEAN 9 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044100 3039 ST JEAN 30x 150

ST JEAN 10 SEYMOUR TROESTER EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044099 3043 ST JEAN PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 150

ST JEAN 11 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044098' 3049 ST JEAN PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 150

ST JEAN 12 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044097? 3057 ST JEAN PLATS, WCR 21/368 30 150
21044094. 3407 ST JEAN ST JEAN 10 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044093. 3413 ST JEAN ST JEAN 9 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044092. 3421 ST JEAN ST JEAN 8 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044091. 3427 ST JEAN ST JEAN 7 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044090. . 3433 ST JEAN IN ST JEAN 6 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044089. 3439 ST JEAN ST JEAN 5 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044088. 3445 ST JEAN ST JEAN 4 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044087. 3451 ST JEAN ST JEAN 3 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044086. 3457 ST JEAN ST JEAN 2 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044085. 3463 ST JEAN ST JEAN 1 LARNEDS SUB L27 P40 PLATS, 21/575 30 150
21044084_ 3469 ST JEAN 88 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044083_ 3475 ST JEAN 3113 87 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044082. 3481 ST JEAN 3:0 86 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044081. 3485 ST JEAN 85 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
3493 ST JEAN 3A0 84 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044079. 3499 ST JEAN 2138:1151?me THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044078? 3505 ST JEAN ST JEAN 82 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524

3OX150

 

Exhibits Page 7 Of 21

 

 

ST JEAN 81 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21044077. 3511 ST JEAN 30X150
21044076 3517 ST JEAN 34(1) 80 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044075. 3521 ST JEAN 211(7) iTlegAN 79 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044074. 3527 ST JEAN 311$ SCTIJSEAN 78 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044073. 3535 ST JEAN :13 iTlggAN 77 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044072. 3539 ST JEAN 32/) 76 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044071. 3547 ST JEAN :16 iTlg?AN 75 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
210440701 3551 ST JEAN 157g 74 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044069. 3559 ST JEAN 271(1) iTlggAN 73 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21524
21044068. 3563 ST JEAN 1311(7) iTle?AN 72 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
2 1 0 4 40 67_ 3569 ST JEAN 311(7) 71 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044066. 3575 ST JEAN :13 70 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044065 3581 ST JEAN :13 69 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21044064_ 3589 ST JEAN 211(7) 68 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21524
21044161. 2171 ST JEAN 13 SUB L23 P76 PLATS, 
ST JEAN 13 SEYMOUR TROESTERS EUREKA HILL SUB L26 P66
21044096 3063 ST JEAN PLATS, WCR 21/368 31.50 150
ST JEAN 6 AND 6.60 FT OF VAC WATERLOO ST LYG OF ADJ 6
21044146. 2505 ST JEAN DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 21/361 36.6
IRREG
ST JEAN 52 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21044109. 2983 ST JEAN 213614232 x150
21044129, 2605 ST JEAN ST JEAN 23 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150
21044128? 2611 ST JEAN ST JEAN 24 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150
21044127_ 2617 ST JEAN ST. JEAN 25 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, CR
21/36130 x150
21044119. 2665 ST JEAN ST JEAN 33 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 
21/36130 x150
ST JEAN 15 FT 6 7 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, 
21044167. 2131 STJEAN 21/34945x150
ST JEAN 3 15 FT 4 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, 
21044164. 2155 ST JEAN 121/349 45 x150
2104411 1 ST JEAN 50 15 FT 49 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96

 

2969 ST JEAN

 

PLATS, 21/36145 X150

 

Exhibits Page 8 of 21

 

 

ST JEAN 23.40 FT 3 2 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96

 

 

21044147. 2257 ST JEAN PLATS, 21/361 53.40 150

21044063. 3597 ST JEAN ST JEAN 67 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
50.65 IRREG

21044112 2965 ST JEAN ST JEAN 15 FT 49 48 DWYER, SCULLEN ONEIL SUB L24 P96

PLATS. 21/36145 150

 

21000925-43

2905 ST JEAN

CHARLEVOIX 38 THRU 41 EXC CHARLEVOIX AVE AS WD DWYER
SCULLEN SUB L24 P96 PLATS. 21/361 150 115.43A

 

MACK 668565 THE HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524

 

 

 

 

 

 

21001116?39 11256 MACK 40.81 100

21001 141? 11234 MACK go?Angg 61 THRU 58 HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21001140. 11244 MACK go?Aglg 64 THRU 62 HEIGHTS PARK SUB L29 P40 PLATS, 21/524
21000889- 1 1262 CHARLEVOIX 35&34 4.94 FT VAC CHARLEVOIX ADJ DWYER

905 CHARLEVOIX SCULLEN SUB L24 P96 PLATS, 21/361 150 64.94

 

Exhibits Page 9 of 21

 

EXHIBIT A-4

 

 

 

 

 

Site 8A
21000717. 1 1231 KERCHEVAL l3 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS, 
KERCHEVAL 21/349 30.02 123A
21043135 002L 2124 BENITEAU 54.27 FT 17&16 HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82 PLATS,
BENITEAU 21/349 54.27 70
21000715 11201 KERCHEVAL l7&16 EXC 54.27 FT HUTTON NALLS SUB L23 P82
KERCHEVAL PLATS, 21/349 70.06 IRREG
LILLIBRIDGE 5.32 FT ON LINE BG .12 FT ON LINE 109 108
11131 THRU 88 AND VAC ALLEY ADJ CHARESTS SUB L12 P55 PLATS, 
21042676-93 KERCHEV AL 21/360 83.97FT OF 105. OFT 0L 5 LYG ADJ KERCHEVAL SUB

 

 

OF ST JEAN FARM LI P2 I4 PLATS, 21/525 31 THRU 25 HUTTON
NA

 

Exhibits Page 10 of 21

 

EXHIBIT A-S

Site 7A-2

 

 

ST JEAN 10 THRU 15 22 THRU 25 32 THRU 35 AND THAT PT OF 28
THRU 31 BG 59.31 FT ON 3 LINE 13 FT ONN LINE 
21043944? 5066 ST JEAN GLADWIN ALLEYS ADJ I BLOOMFIELDS SUB L31 P93 PLATS, 
51456 SQ FT

 

 

 

Exhibits Page 11 of 21

EXHIBIT A-6

Site 7C

 

SHOEMAKER 7 THRU I2THOMAS RICE SHOEMAKERS SUB L38
P35 PLATS, 21/572 ALSO THAT PT OF SUB OF LOTS 25 26 OF
THE ST JEAN FARM, PC 26, ALSO PT OF PC 688 DESC AS FOLS BEG AT
A PTE IN THE LINE OF SHOEMAKER AVE 5.97 FT FR

11031

21003300.001 SHOEMAKER

 

 

SHOEMAKER PT OF LOTS 3 THRU 5SUB OF LOTS 25 26 OF THE ST
11081 JEAN FARM, PC 26 L2I7 P522 DEEDS 2 DESC AS FOLS BG
21003300.002L SHOEMAKER AT THE INTSEC OF THE LINE OF ST JEAN AVE 66 FT WD THE 

LINE OF SHOEMAKER AVE 66 FT WD TH 62D 42M 483 415.97 FT
TH 25D 53

 

 

 

Exhibits Page 12 of 21

 

EXHIBIT 
All of the following parts of vacated streets and alleys further described as:

1) St. Jean Widening on the west side of St. Jean from south line of Warren Avenue, [05 feet
wide. to Can?eld Avenue,_60 feet wide, being land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County,
Michigan described as: part of Lots 1 and 19, both inclusive, and the alley adjoining said Lots
of H. of the southerly 305.98 feet of Out Lot 22 Sub?n of St.
Jean Farm, PC. 26, St Clair Heights Village, (now city of Detroit), Wayne County, Michigan
as recorded in Liber 28 of Plats, Page 17, Wayne County Records; part of Lots 1 through 14,
both inclusive, of A. of part plat of the Sub?n. of the St. Jean Farm (so called) being the westerly part of RC. 26,
Village of St. Clair Heights, Township of Grosse Pointe, (now City of Detroit) Wayne
County, Michigan as recorded In Liber 30 of Plats, Page 71, Wayne County Records; part of
Lots 1 through 7, both inclusivePlat of the Sub'n. of the St. Jean Farm (so called) being the westerly part of RC. 26,
City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded in Liber 46 of Plats, Page 1, Wayne
County Records; part Plat of the Sub?n. of the St. Jean Farm, being the westerly part of PC. 26, Village of
St. Clair Heights, Township of Gratiot, Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded In Liber 34 of
Plats, Page 78, Wayne County Records; part Plat of the Sub'n. of the St. Jean Farm (so called) being the
westerly part of PC. 26, Village of St. Clair Heights, Township of Gratiot, Wayne County
Records, as recorded In Liber 35 of Plats, Page 27, Wayne County Records; part of Lots 1
through 3, both inclusiveSubdivision of the westerly part of St. Jean Farm, RC. 26, T.1S., R.12 E. St. Clair Heights,
Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded In Liber 30, of Plats, Page 4, Wayne County Records;
part of Lot 19 of OF THE SUBDIVISION OF THE ST. JEAN FARM (SO
being the westerly part of private claim 26, In the Township Grosse Pointe,
Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded In Liber 1 of Plats, Page 214, Wayne County Records,
lying southerly of and adjacent to Lot 1 of said and lying
northerly of and adjacent to Lot 14 of SUB. OF PART OF LOT 19? St. Jean Fann,
PC. 26, T.S., R.12E., Saint Clair Heights, Wayne County, Michigan, as recorded in Liber 29
of Plats, Page 72, Wayne County Records; Lots 1 through 14 both inclusive of said 
SUB. OF LOT 19?, of St. Jean Farm, RC. 26, T.1.S., R.11E.,Saint Clair Heights, Wayne
County, Michigan, as recorded in Liber 29 of Plats, on Page 72, Wayne. County Records;
part of Lots 11 through 14, both inclusive, of SUB. OF LOT 18? on the St. Jean
Farm, Private Claim 26 T.IS., R.11E Village of St Clair Heights (Now Detroit) as
recorded in Liber 29, Page 43 of Plats, Wayne County Records, and being more
particularly described as:

Beginning at the Intersection of the southerly line of Warren Ave. (105 ft. wd.)

and the westerly line of St. Jean Ave. (66 ft. Thence along the
westerly line of said St. Jean Ave. 1613.51 feet to the northerly line of Can?eld Ave. (60

Exhibits Page 13 of 21

2)

3)

4)

4)

ft. Thence along the northerly line of said Canfield Ave. 17.01 feet;
Thence 1608.04 feet; Thence 7.07 feet to the southerly line
of said Warren Ave.; Thence along the southerly line of said Warren Ave.
22.00 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.

St. Jean Widening on the west side of St. Jean from south line of Can?eld Avenue. 60
feet wide, to the north line of Mack Avenue. variable width. being land in the City of
Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: part of Lots 1 through 8, both inclusive,
"Finn's Subdivision of Lot 18 on the St Jean Farm RC. 26 Village of St. Clair Heights
(Now Detroit)" as recorded in Liber 29, Page 43 of Plats, Wayne County Records; and
part of Lots 1 through 14, both inclusive ?Finn's Subdivision of Lot 17 on the St Jean
Farm RC. 26, T.1S, R.12E. Village of St. Clair Heights (Now Detroit)" as recorded in
Liber 27, Page 83 of Plats, Wayne County Records; and part of Lots 1 and 65, and alley
adjoining, and Lots 66 through 88, both inclusive ?Lieberman's Homedale Subdivision of
McCracken's Subdivision of Lots 15 and 16, St Jean Farm PC. 26, T.1S, R.12E. Village
of St. Clair Heights (Now Detroit)" as recorded in Liber 28, Page 75 of Plats, Wayne
County Records; and being more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at the intersection of the of the westerly line of St. Jean Avenue, 66 feet wide,
and the southerly line of Can?eld Avenue, 60 feet wide; Thence along the
westerly line of said St. Jean, 1526.80 feet to the northerly line of Mack Avenue, variable
width; Thence along the northerly line of said Mack Avenue 25.89 feet;
Thence 107.57 feet; Thence 8.60 feet; Thence 
1422.29 feet to the southerly line of said Canfield Avenue; Thence along
the southerly line of said Can?eld Avenue, 17.01 feet to the Point Of Beginning.

Land decimated for road purposes at the northeast corner of Mack. variable width and St
ean, variable width, being land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan
described as: part of Lots 1 through 6, both inclusive, part of Lot 53 and part of vacated
alley adjoining "Gladwin Park Subdivision of Part of PC. 26, North of Mack Avenue,
Village of St. Clair Heights (Now Detroit" as recorded in Liber 29, Page 55 of Plats,
Wayne County Records; being more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at the southwesterly corner of said Lot; Thence (N 
record) along the easterly line of St. Jean, 66 feet wide, 123.09 feet to a non?tangent point
of curve; Thence along a curve to the left having an arc length of 166.26 feet, a radius of
87.00 feet, a central angle of 109?29'30?, a chord bearing of and a chord
distance of 142.09 feet to a non?tangent point, also being a point on the northerly line of
Mack Avenue, variable width; Thence along the said northerly line of
Mack Avenue, 123.09 feet to the Point of Beginning.

 

Can?eld Avenue. 60 feet wide from east line of St. Jean Avenue. 66 feet wide as nlatted.
to the east line of the north-south allev. 20 feet wide ?rst west of St. Jean Avenue, being
land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: Lots 9 and 10 "Finn?s

Exhibits Page 14 of 21

5)

6)

7)

8)

Subdivision of Lot 18 on the St Jean Farm PC. 26 Village of St. Clair Heights (Now
Detroit)" as recorded in Liber 29, Page 43 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

Goethe Avenue. variable width. from east line of St Jean Avenue. 66 feet wide as platted.
to the east line of the north-south allev. 20 feet wide first west of St. Jean Avenue, being
land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: Lot 36 and the south
2.83 feet on the east line, being the south 2.16 feet on the west line of Lot 11 ?Larned?s
Subdivision of Lot 12 of the St. Jean Farm, Village of St. Clair Heights (Now Detroit)? as
recorded in Liber 27, Page 40 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

Charlevoix Avenue. 60 feet wide. from east line of St. Jean Avenue. 66 feet wide as
platted. to the east line of the north-south allev. 20 feet wide first west of St. Jean
Avenue, being land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: all of
Lot 37, and the north 25.06 feet on the east line, being the north 25.62 feet on the west
line of Lot 36, and the south 4.94 feet on the east line being the south 4.38 feet on the
west line of Lot 38 ?Dwyer, Scullen O'Neil Subdivision of Lots J, L, and of Richard
Lemay Est. RC. 26 and 688, Village of Fairview (Now Detroit)? as recorded in Liber 24,
Page 96 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

East Vemor Highwav, 60 feet wide. from east line of St. Jean Avenue. 66 feet wide as
nlarterl. to the east line of the north-south allev. 20 feet wide first west of St. Jean
Avenue, being land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan described as: all of
Lot 4, and the north 6.60 feet on the east line, being the north 7.19 feet on the west line of
Lot 5, and the South 23.40 feet on the east line, being the south 22.81 feet on the west
line of Lot 3 ?Dwyer, Scullen O'Neil Subdivision of Lots J, L, and of Richard
Lemay Est. PC. 26 and 688, Village of Fairview (Now Detroit)? as recorded in Liber 24,
Page 96 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

East 19 feet of east-west allev. 18 feet wide in the block bounded bv Kereheval Avenue.
80 feet wide. Vernnr Highway. 60 feet wide. Beniteau Avenue, 70 feet wide. and St Jean
Avenue. 66 feet wide being, land in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan
described as: east 19 feet of east-west alley, 18 feet wide lying north of and adjoining the
north line of the east 19 feet of Lot 8 and lying south of and adjoining the south line of
the east 19 feet of Lot 7 ?Hutton Nall?s Subdivision of Lot 5 except School Lot, of the
Subdivision of the St. Jean Farm, part of RC. 26, Village of Fairview (Now Detroit)? as
recorded in Liber 23, Page 82 of Plats, Wayne County Records.

Exhibits Page 15 of 21

EXHIBIT A-8

(See inserted map.)

Exhibits Page 16 of 21

 

 

East je?erson Ave

Current Footprint

4::52 

4705
4697 4699
4696
469: 4687
4682
4607 4604 460:
46a: 4670 4673
4673 4672 4667
4665 4666 466:
4567 4660 4655
4654 4649
4649 4645
464a
4643 4637
34
4629 46 463:
4625
4620
46I7 46'9
46:4 46  
4609
4mg 4m5
460: 4604 
4595 4594 4595
4559 4565
4509
4553 450:
4577 4576 4577
457: 4570 4569
4565 456:
4564
4559 4557
4553 4551
4546
4547 4545
4542
4511 453.. 4535

4529 4525
a 4526
4523 f? 45'?
?ru-y 
45::
Parce' 4509
. 450:
/1 Vacatlon
4495
Multifamlly housmg 
2.. A Ra? 4479


9: East Warren Ave
37
f5

:v125cj< ?03il 50

?eld St

Beniteau St

14200 

4696
4686
4680
4674

4666

4660

4648
4642
4616
4630
4624
46 3
46 2
4604
4598
4592
4586
4580
4572
4568
4562
4554
4548

4540

4532
4514
4Si0
4506
4504
4500
4483
4482
4476
4470
4464
4453
4450
4441
4430
4430
4422
44:5
44:0

4400

4l 0

4096

x?

?r

m.

E:

'5

'4

$56011Version of 25 April 20 9

 

44:1 ?13
44g] ?inn
no: 
East Canfield St
ills
I I
1i :0
no:- 
4?g; I??i
40w. i??l

4080
4,345 4.1m
401'.) 40M-
4062
44-5: 
?nu

J?iv d?l?
493} 4a]?
49:: i??n

(01:
um
JMI4

i"'lJ
nu.
3- sum
31 1975
an f9 ?If?
lug; 
EUEI lvuu
mu aim
3-549 3946

Parcel

Vacation
Multifamily housing
Rail

 


a lEast Warren Ave

r1
on
a" Mack 
a
L,

I:
I:



East. le?erson Ave

Current Footprint

 

 

4i I
4105
JIOI

i?hf
40m;


{Uh}

4n4v
4043
4037
4019
i?l?
QOII
1mg:


awn!
l?ul
3973
j'b]

IUSI

um

 

Beniteau St

4422
?In
?In

4400

d?h?
4115!
l?l?
rm:
#011
i?:t
4039

qnnu
one:
iu??
1?13


i?li
lulu

10h?
1754
l?h?
194}



3930

39 8

39 IO
3904
3398
3892
3886

lain

JEPU

133"

135?

334}

3834

 

      

   

4m ?rst?

4m 
4m 
:l
4103 
w:
3997 r' l205

.d

Mack N6 199 ??266 ft





 

 

Version of 26 April 20 9

 

3826

liliu Ilr&l


ll'38

359i
3583
3577
357!
3565
3559
3553
3541
354l
3535
3529
3523
35l?
35  
3505

3499

Parcel

Vacated/To Be Vacated

Mack Ave

ill-C

Beniteau St

 

 

Building
Rail

9, East Warren Ave

03
CL rdiicklpuve
03'

GD
E:
C:

k)
East jefferson Ave
- i" ?5 i. 
"lv'l l:

Current Footprint

 

Goethe St

3590

3584

3576

3570

3564

3558

3550

3546

3540

3534

3528

3522

35 6

3508

3504

3498

3492

3486

3478

3474

3470

3463

3454

3450

3444

3438

3432

3426

3420

34:4

34 0

3400

a?f?



 

 



3575

3569

3563

3559

355i

3547

3539

3535

3527

352!

35i7

ISII

3505

3499

3493

3405

343i

3l75

3469

3463

3457

345!

3445

3439

3433

3417

342 

34!}

3407

3063

Saint Jean Ave

 

 

0

IOO 200 ft

 

 

 

Version of 25 April 20 9

 

34l3
3409

ll095

Goethe St

3030

2985

197?)
2973
2965
296

2955
1947
29 

2935

Parcel

7; Vacated/To Be Vacated

Beniteau St

 

 

Building
Rail

East Warren Ave

OD
0' Mack Ave
ch?
El 3

E:
C)

East jefferso? Ave
I i
A . 
yaCurrent Footprint

 

34 4

34 0

3400

 203 l109ll2 3l 1l7I 22

 

IIZUU

2662

2654

2646

2636

2628

2620

 

 

3039

3033

3025

30h

30l]

3007

300i

2995

2989

2983

297?

2969

2965

295 

2947

294 

2935

29?9

292]

2905

 



2&65

2657

2653

264?

264i

 

jean Ave



a;



IOU 200 ft

 

 

 

 

Version of 25 April 20 I 9

 

2925

29 9

l9 l

290l

Charlevoix St


2669
266i
255?
2649
2645
1619
26H
1627
262 
l6 5
1609

2603

2588 259'

1583
2576

1573
2572

2567
2566

2560

Parcel

Z, Vacated/To Be Vacated

756!

Building
Rail

 

East Warren Ave

120 2211112221

Mack AV 8

El

son AVE
?0

ConnerSt

East jeffer

ll-l I ll

Current Footprint

Beniteau St

qiy

 

2923
2915
2902
2905
 203ll209ll7l3ll1l7ll31
11200 11252
2552 2555
2554 2657
2553
2545 2512
2535 164'
2535
2528 2529
2520 2523
2514 2512
2505 251
2502 2505
2505 2592
2500 2591
2552 2502
252a 2531
2522 2523
2566 2567
2550 2553
2554 2552
2550 2551
2542 2555
253a 2539
2530 2533
2525 2522
2520 2521
2515
ZSIO
2511
2501 2505
2255 11211 11224 2252
2250 2251
2245 2245
222a 2239
2112 771'
2225 2:25

 

?5

 

100 200 ft

I

 

 

 

 

 

Version of 25 April 20 9

 

2504 250i
2266 IIOI6 2265
2260 116'
2254 2255
2240 1249
2242 2243
2225 2217
2220 223!
2222 2115
2213 22 9
22 2 22?3
2204 2202
2200 210 
2I92 2'93
2 aa 2 ar
2 34 2:93
2170 2 ?7
2'72 2l75
2154 2 65
2rss
2'52 2l5]

2240 I'll
ZIJJ
2120 2'27

Parcel

K, Vacated/To Be Vacated

Lnnu?dgest

25 4

2508

2500

2264

2260

2254

2246

2240

2234

2230

 

Building
'2 Rail


EastWarren Ave ?00

05 I674
CL 
I -
01
l. lien?
10
i:
5 I656
L)

East Jefferson Ave
I638
522
512
Current Footprint ., 

 

East Vernor Highway



 667

 659

 65 

 b47



I635

I629

 623



Ibll

 603

25I3



2259

2247

224!

2235

2229

250]

 

13 

Beniteau St

  

I628



 6 6

I603

I504



2250

2246

2238

 

1?20'

Kercheval St



I62
I6IS
l607

l599

 

IILPI

Defer Place

 
 
   
   
   
  

 

 

 

1574 Ilari  l326
I6I6 '645
I640 I639
I632 I63I
I023
lbIO  6l7
l6 4 I?ll
I600 
l00 200 ft
_1 .11 
I 

 

 

 

Version of 25 April 20 9

 

 

 

 

 


V)
3.

4o: 3
.
. noon

ug Ill J_Es'sex"Av 
Coastal Drive 

2 
Ilr?llf- 



assIi?Tt?h?J'm



'7
Parcel '1

To be vacated mm.
_l Building
Rail .

9 . .
9.: East Warren Ave



Hack AVE

U)

(I)



East Ave 

5?30 ft
Current Footprint . . .

 

 

Version of 25 April 20 9

 

Parcel

 

DTE Sliver
Building
Rail



East Warren Ave



on

0' MackPi-VE
62?


I:
0


East je?erson Ave

4


Current Footprint

 

 

 

'mu-w {JyStation Drive

Mack Service Drive

 

Eugene Ave

475i

0 I00 200 ft


 

 

Version of 25 April 20l9

 

Parcel

To be vacated

 

Building
Rail

(1
ET East Warren Ave
E:
on
0' Hack 




I:

0

East je?erson Ave

Current Footprint

 

 

 

 

Charievoix St

3975

as Jauuog

16"
CONNER

i
250 500 ft

 

 

 

Version of 25 April 20 9

 

    
 
      
    
  
 

    

 

aim Mar. 
SHEI 504a 
51-45 5344
in? $33
5333 5632
-1502? 5 'sm 4 Hm
582! 5320
58:5 58?
5309 5809
580i 5m; ?our
JEAN
Olga Ave
gab 59;; S7l$
sum 51-3: 33-31
5630 5?03
5-49! 5574 ?Ii-3?97
5N1: 
saw 555; 5685
am i 565; 5679
4?45 m; 5673 

5544 5667
?'Shh. Lilli I
52.25 5620 5643
55-5" 56? 5637 
mm 5609 563] 
5300 5525 5595 30" 
5585 5579 i 553a xz-u- .9 9? 1
I m: 55:7. 510: 
55's? 5572 W: u. ?2 
55? 5m. 55? SHOEHAKER i
I . new l-En'v 5588 
-7: . 
. 5549 5554 MN 55:1 
. 
5513.. .1 5.4 .
i 5537 3:49: mu 
i. - ..-. sat- 
.2. . . i
.0933 1? .
32. i
Parcel 334 Km. 
55? 
Vacated/To Be Vacated 5m su-
jxifu
. I Hall
SHOEHAKER
.?I?Ijl
Rail m1
HIHI

9: East Warren Ave


"044," Shoemaker St
MackAVe
It? a
L.




East Jeffersgn Ave I 
1 SIBS
5 19 
sm 5
5m 5'
5 Current Footprint 5?51 

 

 

 

Version of 25 April 20 9

 

Shoemaker SC

 





Jr?i
7 A 7).
Parcel
Vacated/To Be Vacated 
Building
-- Rail
9
East Warren Ave I . 2-1.


'1 Mack 
a
5.1


6 East Warren Ave
East jefferson Ave

 

[00 200 ft

 

Current Footprint

 

 

 

 

Version of 25 April 20l9

EXHIBIT 
City Council Resolution

[See attached]

Exhibits Page 17 of 21

EXHIBIT 

Form of Deed

QUIT CLAIM DEED

That the City of Detroit, a Michigan public body corporate, the address of which is 2
Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226, quit claims to City of Detroit Brown?eld
Redevelopment Authority, a Michigan public authority and body corporate (the the
address of which is 500 Griswold Street, Suite 2200, Detroit, Michigan 48226, the premises
located in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described on Exhibit A attached hereto
and made a part hereof (the ??Land?) for the sum of Five Hundred Thousand and 00/100
Dollars together with all appurtenances thereon together with all reversionary
interests in adjoining rights?of-way, streets, alleys and public easements, and subject to
easements and building and use restrictions of record and to the Land Agreement described
below.

 

This deed is given subject to the terms, covenants and conditions of Land Agreement
dated entered into by the parties hereto and which is incorporated herein by
reference, none of the terms, covenants and conditions of which shall be deemed merged in this
Deed. The covenants therein recited to be covenants running with the land are hereby declared
to be covenants running with the land enforceable by the DBRA as therein set forth.

The following language is included pursuant to MC 560.109(3) and 56010994), added
by 1996 PA 591, and applies only to the portion of the Property that is not platted: The Grantor
grants to the Grantee the right to make all divisions under Section 108 of the Land Division Act,
Act No 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended. This property may be located within the
vicinity of farmland or a farm operation. Generally accepted agricultural and management
practices which may generate noise, dust, odors, and other associated conditions may be used
and are protected by the Michigan Right to arm Act.

This Deed is dated as of

 

[Signatures Follow]

Exhibits Page 18 of 21

Grantor:
CITY OF DETROIT,
a Michigan municipal corporation

By:

 

Maurice Cox
Director, Planning and Development
Department

 

 

Acknowledged before me in County, Michigan, on ,2017,
by Maurice Cox, Director, Planning and Development Department, on behalf of said municipal
corporation

Notary's Notary's
Stamp Signature
Acting in County, Michigan

 

 

 

Approved by Corporation Counsel pursuant to 
206 of the 2012 Charter of the City of Detroit:

 

Corporation Counsel

 

 

 

In accordance with ?18-5-4 of the Detroit City
Code, I hereby certify that proper and fair
consideration has been received by the City
pursuant to this contract.

 

Finance Director

 

 

Drafted by and return to: Rebecca A. Navin, Esq., 500 Griswold, Ste 2200, Detroit, MI 48226
Exempt from transfer tax pursuant to MCL 207. 505 and 207. 526(h)(i).

Exhibits Page 19 of 21

 

EXHIBIT A

(See Exhibit A to Land Transfer Agreement.)

Exhibits Page 20 of 21

 i COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER

2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

May 3, 2019 a

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

  
   

 

 

RE: Land Exchanges Property Sales
In Support of Mack 1 Plant, Mack 2 Plant, Jefferson North Assembly Plant Projects

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
and FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of
approximately $2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants
(collectively the ?Projects?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City. It
is anticipated that the Projects will result in the creation of approximately 4,950 additional FCA
jobs in the City, as well as increase business and economic opportunities for related supplier and
support industries.

In support of progressing the Projects forward, the City has worked with the DBRA to negotiate
an additional series of real estate transactions that are Vital to land assembly required to bring the
Projects to fruition (the ?Real Estate Transactions?). Attached hereto are four (4) separate
resolutions approving the Real Estate Transactions by and through the City?s Planning and
Development Department and an additional resolution authorizing the Detroit Land
Bank Authority to transfer certain parcels to DBRA to support the Projects, which are
summarized as follows:

0 Resolution 1 Property Sale 2' Land Exchange Fodale Grog!) 8f. Associates

The City has received an offer from Fodale Group Associates (?Purchaser?) to
purchase 4 City-owned properties and 68 parcels, more or less, owned by the Detroit
Land' Bank Authority in exchange for: Purchaser?s transfer of 12001 and
12017 Mack Avenue (the ?Purchaser?s Exchange Properties?) to the DBRA and (2)
monetary consideration Two Hundred Eighty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
as further described in the attached Resolution 1. Sale proceeds received
by the City and DBRA pursuant to this sale, and related sales to Road Land LLC
(described in Resolution 2) and Trident Huber LLC will be escrowed and made available
to Purchaser to offset certain costs as described in Resolution 1.

It is intent to transfer the Purchaser?s Exchange Properties to FCA for the
Projects.

 

:24?

at $60,000 acre (?Purchase Price?) as further described in the attached Resolution Zirfln the
event that the DBRA acquires part of the adjacent parcel located at 10780 Gratiot, such
parcel will be included in the sale at cost of purchase. Sale proceeds received by the
City and DBRA pursuant to this sale, and related sales to Fodale Group Associates
(described in Resolution 1) and Trident Huber LLC will be escrowed and made available to
Purchaser to offset certain costs as described in Resolution 2.

0 Resolution 3 Pronerg' Sale I Land Exchange Crown Enterprises, Inc.

The City has received an offer from Crown Enterprises, Inc. (?Crown?) for Crown to transfer
12141 Charlevoix (the ?Budd Plant Properly?) to the DBRA for a purchase price of Fifty-
Four Million and 00/100 Dollars The purchase price shall be payable in
part by Crown?s election to purchase any of the approximately 261 properties, more or less,
owned by City, the Detroit Land Bank Authority, or the Economic Development Corporation
of the City of Detroit, in which event the value of such property shall be credited against the
purchase price as further described in the attached Resolution 3. The purchase price is
subject to a potential increase in the amount of Twenty Million and 00/ 100 Dollars
in the event certain conditions are not met, a portion of which may be
payable by the City and DBRA according to the terms of the Development Agreement with
FCA.

The Budd Plant Property will be transferred to CA for the Projects.
0 Resolution 4 Land Transfer - Detroit Land Banl_( Authoritv to DBRA

The DLBA wishes to transfer certain parcels to the DBRA by land transfer agreement in
furtherance of the Projects and as further described in the attached Resolution 4.

The City is hereby requesting that your Honorable Body adopt the attached four (4) resolutions that

approve the above referenced Real Estate Transactions in support of the Projects.

Respectfully submitted,

Janet Attarian, Deputy Director
Planning and Development Department

cc: S. Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

RESOLUTION 1

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
and FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of
approximately $2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants
(collectively the ?Fruit-zeta?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City;
and now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that in support of the Projects, the Detroit City Council hereby approves the sale
of those certain parcels of City-owned land described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated
herein (collectively the ?Citv Parcels?), together with the parcels described therein owned by the
Detroit Land Bank Authority, to Fodale Group Associates (?Fodale?), in exchange for: (1)
Fodale?s payment to the City of Two Hundred Eighty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars
and (2) Soave?s transfer of 12001 and 12017 Mack Avenue (together the ?Fodale
Parcels?), as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit incorporated herein, to the
DBRA for incorporation into the Projects; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Mayor, Planning and Development Department Director, or
their authorized designee, is authorized to execute a property exchange agreement, a summary of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit C, and issue quit claim deeds for the sale of the City Parcels,
as well as execute such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer
of the City Parcels to Fodale consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED that the Mayor, Director, or their authorized designee, is authorized to
execute any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to
the quit claim deeds (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal
descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are
required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or
technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the City Parcels and/or the odale
Parcels, provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer
and sale; and be it finally

RESOLVED, that the City?s purchase agreement and quit claim deeds will be considered

con?rmed when executed by the Mayor, Director, or their authorized designee, and
approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibits A, B, and C)

EXHIBIT A to Resolution 1
Gig Parcels

Land situated in the City of Detroit in the County of Wayne in the State of Michigan

Tax Parcel: Address: City Instrumentality:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15005541?6 10231 VAN DYKE City of Detroit Care of DBA
15005547. 10047 VAN DYKE City of Detroit Care of DBA
?15005553. 10013 VAN DYKE CityEf Detroit Care of DBA
15005554. 10007 VAN DYKE City ofDetroit Care of DBA
15002444. 7521 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002445. 7527 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002446. 7533 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15 002447-8 7545 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002449. 7551 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002450. 7557 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002453. 7575 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002454. 7581 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002455. 7587 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002456. 7593 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002457. 7599 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002460. 7617 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002461. 7621 JORDAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002462. 7622 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002464. 7608 DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002465. 7604 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002466. 7596 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002468. 7586 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002469. 7580 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002470. 7572 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15002471. 7568 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002472. 7562 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002473. 7556 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002474. 7550 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002476. 7536 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002477. 7532 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002478. 7526 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002479. 7520 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002480. 7514 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002481. 7508 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002482. 7502 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002483. 7501 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002484. 7507 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002485. 7515 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
$02486. 7523 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002487. 7527 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002488. 7533 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002489. ?7539 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002490. 7545 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002491. 7551 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002492. 7557 MORGAN I DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002493. 7563 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15 002494. 7569 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
.?15 002495. 7575 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002496. 7581 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002497. 7585 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002498. 7593 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

 

 

15002499.

7599 MORGAN

 

 

 

 

DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15002500. 7603 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002501. 7609 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002502. 7617 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002503. 7623 MORGAN DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
?15002504. 7622 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
$002505. 7618 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002506. 7610 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002509-10 7586 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002511. 7580 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002512. 7572 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002513. 7566 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002514. 7562 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002516. 7550 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002517. 7544 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
?150025 18. 7538 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002519. 7532 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002520. 7526 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002523. 7508 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15002524. 7502 RD DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY
15005539?40 10243 VAN DYKE DETROIT LAND BANK AUTHORITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

EXHIBIT to Resolution 1
Fodale Parcels
Land situated in the City of Detroit in the County of Wayne in the State of Michigan

Parcel 1:

PARCEL 8A:

The Easterly 183.50 feet of the Westerly 200 feet of Lot 23, EXCEPT the Northerly 30 feet
thereof, and the Easterly 183.50 feet of the Westerly 200 feet of the Northerly 141.68 feet of Lot
22, of PLAN OF SUBDIVISION OF PRIVATE CLAIM NO. 385 AND 386 FOR THE HEIRS
OF THE LATE H. CONNOR OF GROSSE POINTE, according to the plat thereof as recorded
in Liber 49 of Deeds, Page 494, Wayne County Records.

PARCEL 8B:

The South 130 feet of the North 271.68 feet of the West 200 feet of Lot 22, EXCEPT West 16.5
feet thereof taken for Conner Lane so-called, of PLAN OF SUBDIVISION OF PRIVATE
CLAIM NO. 385 AND 386 FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE H. CONNOR OF GROSSE
POINTE, according to the plat thereof as recorded in Liber 49 of Deeds, Page 494, Wayne
County Records.

PARCEL 8C:

That part of the East 148.71 feet of the West 348.71 feet of Lots 22 and 23, of PLAN OF
SUBDIVISION OF PRIVATE CLAIM NO. 385 AND 386 FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE H.
CONNOR OF GROSSE POINTE, according to the plat thereof as recorded in Liber 49 of
Deeds, Page 494, Wayne County Records, described as: Commencing at the Northwest comer of
Lot 23; thence South 26 degrees 03 minutes 00 seconds East 50.00 feet along the West line of
Private Claim 386; thence North 64 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East 200.00 feet to the point
of beginning; thence North 64 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East 60.00 feet to a point; thence
South 26 degrees 03 minutes 00 seconds East 453.30 feet to a point; thence South 62 degrees 13
minutes 00 seconds West 60.03 feet to a point; thence North 26 degrees 03 minutes 00 seconds
West 455.17 feet to the point of beginning.

Commonly known as 12001 Mack, Detroit, Michigan
Tax Parcel Identi?cation Number: Ward 21 Item 1269.002L

Parcel 2:

The East 183.50 feet of the West 200 feet of Lot 22, EXCEPT the North 271.68 feet thereof, of
PLAN OF SUBDIVISION OF PRIVATE CLAIM NO. 385 AND 386 FOR THE HEIRS OF
THE LATE H. CONNOR OF GROSSE POINTE, according to the plat thereof as recorded in
Liber 49 of Deeds, page 494, Wayne County Records.

Commonly known as: 12017 Mack, Detroit, Michigan
Tax Parcel Identification Number: Ward 21 Item 1260-8

EXHIBIT to Resolution 1

Summary of Property Exchange Agreement
With Fodale Group Associates

Parties: City, DBRA, Fodale Group Associates (?Fodale?)

Exchange Properties:
- Fodale Property to be acquired by DBRA:
0 12001 Mack and 12017 Mack as shown in Exhibit A-l (for transfer to FCA)
0 City Property:
0 Parcels owned by City and DLBA in the area bounded by Road, Van
Dyke, Jordan, and Eldon

Consideration:
Fodale Property: $100,000

0 CityProperty: $380,000

Site Prep Escrow:
0 Net sale proceeds from sale of City Property to be deposited in Site Prep Escrow at
Closing to be used as follows:
0 By odale (for 3 years following last in time closing of the 3 related transactions
with Fodale, Road Land, LLC and Trident Huber LLC):
I Cost of eligible activities under the Brown?eld Act, above $150,000 for
any of the 3 purchase areas
I Purchase of private parcels up to $250,000 total
I Quiet title costs in excess of QTA Cap (described below)
0 By the City:
I Up to $100,000 to be used by DBRA for purchase of State Parcel under
Road Land Agreement
I Any remaining funds in escrow at the expiration of the escrow period to
be disbursed prorata to City, DBRA and BBC for sale of properties owned
by them

Other:
0 QTA Cap: DBRA to cover costs of up to $50,000 to for quiet title actions on City

Property

RESOLUTION 2

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
and FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of
approximately $2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants
(collectively the ?Projects?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City;
and now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that in support of the Projects, the Detroit City Council hereby approves the sale
of 10600 and part of 10644 Gratiot, as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A
incorporated herein (collectively the ?City Parcels?) to Road Land LLC for a
purchase price to be calculated as $60,000 acre of the ?nal as-surveyed City Parcels, estimated
to be Six Hundred Forty Two Thousand and 00/100 and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Mayor, Planning and Development Department Director, or
their authorized designee, is authorized to execute a purchase and sale agreement, a summary of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit B, and issue quit claim deeds for the sale of the City Parcels,
as well as execute such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer
of the City Parcels to consistent with this resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED that the Mayor, Director, or their authorized designee, is authorized to
execute any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to
the quit claim deeds (including but not limited to determination of City Parcel con?guration,
corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of
particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are
required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the
conveyance of the City Parcels, provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or
terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City?s purchase agreement and quit claim deeds will be considered

con?rmed when executed by the Mayor, Director, or their authorized designee, and
approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibits A, and B)

EXHIBIT A to Resolution 2
City Parcels to Road Land LLC

Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

GRATIOT ALL THAT DESC AS FOLS BEG
AT INT SEC OF LY LINE OF GRATIOT 124 FT WD LY LINE TH 25D
43M 211.04 FT ALG SD LY LINE 44D 41M 208 466.96 FT TH 87D 52M 434.95 FT TH 36D 03M 
466.56 FT ALG LY LINE T0 173,199 SQ FT

10600 Gratiot (Ward 19 Item 001584)

Portion of the following parcel, consisting of existing concrete parking area and entry way off of
Conner, legal description to be con?rmed through a survey

GRATIOT PT OF FRL SECS AND 389 DESC AS
FOLS BEG AT PTE IN LINE CONNER AVE 423.71 FT LY ALG SD LINE FROM 
COR OF GRATIOT CONNER AVES TH 43D 27M 194.23 FT TH 42D 36M 380.14
FT TH 35D 29M 774.58 FT TH 34D 49M 757.64 FT TH 35D 43M 842.20 FT TH 
68D 09M 268 153.8 FT TH 67D 05M 26S 519.25 FT TH 02D 17M 18S 712.62 FT
TH 87D 46M 308 182.87D 46M 30S 180.23 FT
THN 02D 04M 208 619.31 FT TH 35D 29M 609.71 FT TH 80D 23M 71.78 FT
TH 79D 51M 240.28 FT TH 66D 26M 132.68 FT TH 44D 39M 438 232.46D 40M 183.EXC EXPWAY AS OP 978,235 SQ FT

Part of 10644 Gratiot (part of the parcel Ward 19 Item 0015 82.003L)

EXHIBIT to Resolution 2

Summary of Purchase and Sale Agreement with
Road Land LLC

Parties: City of Detroit DBRA, Road Land LLC 
Properties to be conveyed
0 City owned property located at 10644 Gratiot (part of the parcel Ward 19 Item

001582.003L, consisting of existing concrete parking area and entry way off of
Conner) and 10600 Gratiot (Ward 19 Item 001584)

0 To the extent acquired by DBRA, a portion of the property currently owned by
the State of Michigan located at 10780 Gratiot (Ward 19 Item 001582.002) (the
?State Parcel?)

Consideration:
0 City owned property: $60,000/acre, estimated at $642,000
I State Parcel: net purchase price paid by DBRA to State to acquire the property

Site Prep Escrow:
- Net sale proceeds from sale of City Property to be deposited in Site Prep Escrow at
Closing to be used as follows:
0 By the (for 3 years following last in time closing of the 3 related
transactions with odale Group Associates and Trident Huber LLC):
I Cost of eligible activities under the Brown?eld Act, above $150,000 for
any of the 3 purchase areas
I Purchase of private parcels up to $250,000 total for the Fodale purchase
area
. Quiet title costs in excess of QTA Cap (described below)
0 By the City:
I Up to $100,000 to be used by DBRA for purchase of State Parcel under
Road Land Agreement
. Any remaining ?mds in escrow at the expiration of the escrow period to
be disbursed prorata to City, DBRA and EDC for sale of properties owned
by them

Other:
0 QTA Cap: DBRA to cover costs of up to $50,000, plus any funds not expended for quiet
title actions under the Fodale Agreement to for quiet title actions on City Property
0 City will retain a permanent, non-exclusive public easement for pedestrian and vehicular
ingress and egress along the southwesterly boundary of the 10600 Gratiot property and
Wide enough for two lanes of truck traf?c

RESOLUTION 3

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
and FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of
approximately $2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants
(collectively the ?Proiects?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City;
and now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that in support of the Projects, the Detroit City Council hereby approves the sale
of those certain parcels of land owned by the City, as more particularly described in the attached
Exhibit A incorporated herein, any other parcel owned by the City but not identi?ed in the list
attached as Exhibit A and located within the Transfer Area depicted on Exhibit 
Parcels?), together with certain other parcels owned by the Detroit Land Bank Authority and The
Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit, to Crown Enterprises, Inc.
(?Crown?) as part of the consideration to be exchanged for Crown?s transfer of 12141
Charlevoix (the ?Budd Plant Proneitv?), as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit C,
to the DBRA, which has elected for Crown to transfer the Budd Plant Property to FCA for
incorporation into the Projects; and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the Property Exchange Agreement by
and among the City, DBRA and Crown in substantially the form provided to Detroit City
Council, a summary of which is attached hereto as Exhibit and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves the consideration being paid by each
party for the property as being fair market value for each property being conveyed; and be it
further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves and grants Crown an option to purchase
additional City-owned property within the area depicted on Exhibit (the ?Potential Option
P?perties Area?) hereinafter acquired, for the purchase of price of either the cash consideration
paid by the City to acquire such property or, if acquired by the City following tax foreclosure by
the Wayne County Treasurer, the amount of delinquent property taxes, including interest and
penalties, which would have been required to be paid to avoid tax foreclosure proceedings, and
further authorizes the Detroit Land Bank Authority to convey more than nine (9)
parcels in any twelve (12) month period to Crown within the Potential Option Properties Area in
the event Crown so exercises its option to purchase; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Mayor, Planning and Development Department Director, or
their authorized designee, is authorized to execute the Property Exchange Agreement and issue
quit claim deeds for the sale of the City Parcels, as well as execute such other documents as may
be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the City Parcels to Crown consistent with this
resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Mayor, Director, or their authorized designee is authorized to
execute any required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to
the quit claim deeds (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal
descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are
required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or

technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the City Parcels, provided that the
changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City?s property exchange agreement and quit claim deeds will be

considered con?rmed when executed by the Mayor or Director, or their authorized
designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibits A, B, C, and E)

EXHIBIT A to Resolution 3

M935

See attached.

Schedule of City Property

Address Pin-El Nam Le 11!)le 
3600 Toledo
3600 TOLEDO 120091505 159,154 THRU 151 ST ADJ, ALSO VAC NIS ALLEY 

ALLEY SCOTTEN, LOVETT 1K: DAVIS SUB L2 P19 FLATS, 1212119 134,772 SQ FT
Area near LycastelEdlie

1201 TERMINAL 21045453. WTERMINAL Fr217 SUB L24 F111 R20263 29 75x72
1203 TERMINAL 21045452. TERMINAL E50 HUTTON, TIGCHON SUB L24 F111 FLATS, WC 21/263 29 75 511
1207 TERM1NAL 21045451 WTERMINAL 216 SUB L24 P111 FLATS, WC R211263 30 X122
1215 TERMINAL 21045450. WTERMINAL 215 HUTTON, TIGCHON SUB L24 P111 FLATS, WC R211263 311 x122
Area near Triple Barrels
925 CLAIRPOINTE 210455030 CLAIRFOINTE 14.1;15 HENDRIE K: HILLGERS SUB L27 F67 FLATS, 2113110 60 1117 63
937 CLAIRPOINTE 21045507 CLAIRFOINTE 13HENDR1E 111- HILUGERS SUB L27 F67 FLATS, WC R2113110 30 107 63
941 CLAIRPOINTE 21045605, CLAJRFOINTE 12 HENDRJER HILUGERS SUB L27 F67 FLATS, wc R2113110 30 107 63
Jefferson Conner Freud - 
696 HART 21044903 LYCASTE 30 TERMINAL SUB L26 F110 FLATS, 2 11372 ALSO 154 THRU 167 AND VAC HART AVENUE ADJ
1'1: NALL SUB L24 P111 FLATS, 1117,4111) SQ FT
696 LYC ASTE 21044904, LYCASTE 97 HUTTON, TIGCHON 8.: NALL SUB L24 P18 FLATS, WC 311 122
700 LYCASTE 21044905 LYCASTE 911 HUTTON, TIGCHON 8.: NALL SUB L24 Fla FLATS, WC R211263 311 122
708 LYCASTE 21044906. LYCASTE 99 HUTTON, TIGCHON 1'1: NALL SUB L24 P111 FLATS, WC 112111263 30 122
714 LYCASTE 21044907 LYCASTE 11111 HUTTON, TIGCHON 8.: NALL SUB L24 P111 FLATS, 2 11263 30 122
718 LYCASTE 21044903. LYCASTE 1111 TIGCHON 1K: NALL SUB L24 P111 FLATS, 2 V263 30 122
726 LYCASTE 21044909 LYCASTE 1112 1'1: NALL SUB L24 P111 FLATS, 211263 30 122
732 LYCASTE 21044910 LYCASTE 103 J: NALL SUB L24 F111 PLATS, 211263 31) 122
Trombly Triangle/Hamtramek Drive
7335 571111713110 090047550021, STAUBIN ALLTHATFTOF 114 SEC 59 TTATBG THAT LOTS 1,2313 OF
LIVINGSTONES SUB at LEASED T0 ALUMINUM BRASS CORP 91-- 4,2111 SQ FT
7415 37110131111 09004754, 
LINE .14 116 71 FT LINE LIVINGSTONES SUB L1 F312 FLATS, WC 91112 53,367 SQ FT
7447 ST 1111113110 09004753 STAUBIN 34 FT 6 N111 FT 5 LIVINGSTONES SUB L1 F312 FLATS, 91112 49 6611 SQ FT
7501 ST AUBIN 09004752 66 FT N911 FT6 LIVINGSTONES SUB L1 F312 FLATS, WC 1191112 43416 SQ FT
7529 ST AUBIN 09004751 ST AUEFN 93:11 66 FT TLIVINGSTONES SUB Ll P312 FLATS, 911 12 3111111 SQ FT
UTS McNichols
13993 MCDOUGALL 0911111474 MC DOUGALL 40010401 Exc MC NICHOLS RD AS OF SUNNYSIDE SUB L18 F2 FLATS, WCR 91146 151RREG
17100 MITCHELL 09010335. MITCHELL 563 THRU 565 Exc MC NICHOLS RD AS OPENED SUNNYSIDE-SUB L111 F2 FLATS, WCR 91146 21 771RREG
17104 MITCHELL 09010337 EMITCHELL 566 SUNNYSIDE-SUB L111 91146 30x 100
17105 KLINGER 0911119313, 47.11411 EXC 6 MILE ROAD AS OF BLK 3 JOHN CONANT AVE SUB L15 F47 FLATS, 91149
3747 SQ FT
17112 MCDOUGALL 0901114771 MC DOUGALL 404 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 91146 30 1011
17116 MITCHELL 09010889. MITCHELL 5611 SUNNYSIDE-SUB L111 P2 91146 311 1011
17113 MCDOUGALL 090 1 (1473 MC DOUGALL 405 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 91146 311x 100
17123 GALLAGHER 09009313, GALLAGHER 127 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, WCR 91146 311 1110
17124 CHAREST 09010072 ECHAREST 244 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 P2 FLATS, WCR 91146 311 11111
17124 MCDOUGALL 0911113479, MC DOUGALL 4116 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 91146 31131 1011
17125 MCDOUGALL 09010640 MC DOUGALL 434 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, 11CR 91146 30 100
17130 MCDOUGALL 09010430 MC DOUGALL 407 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 91146 31121 100
17136 MCDOUGALL 09010431 MC DOUGALL 4011 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 91146 31111 100
17136 MITCHELL 09010392 EMITCHELL 571 SUNNYSIDE-SUB L111 F2 91146 30x 1110
17140 M1TCHELL 0901039343 MITCHELL 572 THRU 577 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, R911461110x 1011
17142 MCDOUGALL 09010432 MC DOUGALL 4119 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 P2 91146 311 1110
17143 MCDOUGALL 09010637 MC DOUGALL 431 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, 91146 30 1011
17149 MCDOUGALL 09010635 MC DOUGALL 430 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, WCR 91146 30 1011
17151 CHAREST 09010203 CHAREST 276 SUNNYSIDE SUB L18 F2 91146 30 71100
17155 MCDOUGALL 09010635 MC DOUGALL 429 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, WCR 91146 30 100
17190 CHAREST 09010033 ECHAREST 255 SUNNYS1DE SUB L111 F2 30x 100
17196 CHAREST 09010034' ECHAREST 256 SUB L111 F2 FLATS, WCR 91146 30 100
17202 CHAREST 09010035 CHAREST 257 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, WCR 9/146 30 11111
17211 GALLAGHER 09009793 WGALLAGHER 112 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, WCR 91146 30 11111
17214 CHAREST 0901003743 CHAREST 259131260 SUNNYSIDE SUB L111 F2 FLATS, 91146 60 100
Van Dyke Airport Area
11111 FRENCH RD 17016506 FRENCH RD ALL THAT PART OF LOTS 9,11,26 DESC As FOLS BEG AT A FTE DISTS 35D 49M 4115 66 96 FT FROM

OF THE LINE OF ENGELS SUB .11 THE LINE OF FRENCH RD 116 FT WD TH 6313 53M 10110 26D

07M 375 24 31113 16M 3115 WIN 92 FTTH 0

11421 FRENCH RD 170155045 FRENCH RD 0 16 Exc PORTIONS DEEDED FOR STREET 61: ALLEY OPENINGS ALSO Exc 35 FTOF 70 F1 ON 
LINE LINE LYG OF .11 ADJ LYFORD AVE EXTD ELY 11; OF 11 ADJ ALLEY F1RSTs 0F 11
FARALLEL TO LYFORD AVE LEANDER R1VARD FARM SUB L211

3241 MOLENA 1700245243 MOLENA 175 THRU 154 BOLTON SUE L37 F36 FLATS, WCR 171450 665 17 1611 14A

3343 MADOLA 17002353 MADOLA PTS 0F 2 THRU 9 ENGELS SUB L11 F73 FLATS, wc 171449 ALSO FTS OF 176 THRU 197 BOLTON SUB L37
F36 FLATS, 1714511 ALSO PTS OF 237 THRU 249 BOLTON SUB N0 1 L39 F29 FLATS, 171447 ALSO VAC
MOLENA AVE ADJ SD LOTS ALL DESC AS FOLS BEG AT A

3351 MADOLA 1700234357 MADOLA ALL THAT FT 0F 3&4 DESC As FOLS BEG ATN COR FTTH 270 23M 17S E1511 110 63D 25111235 w409 63 FTTH 26D 23M 175 36125FTTO FTE
0F BEG EXC ST 11.- ALLEYS AS OF WD ENG

8616 LYFORD 170112474, LYFORDE35 70 FTONN LINE BG E35 FTOFW64 FT ONSLINE OF THAT PTOFOL 
LYFORD AVE EXTD ELY it OF 10 ADJ ALLEY FIRST 5 OF 11 FRL LYFORD AVE LEANDER R1VARD FARM SUB L211 F4
FLATS, 1714611 35 x114 74

Page 1 of 2

Schedule of City Property

 

SI Lat: I: Furl SI
2001 FORT

2516 FORT
2524 FORT

Ill 11 Much near project are!
12121 MACK

Bridge Arena. 1 8c 1
1325 20TH ST
1411 20TH ST
1415 20TH ST

08000040.

1011001153.

?10013052
1000005]

21001273.

12007631.
12007627.
12007626.

FORT 2-1 10 FT PRIVATE ALLEY ADJ FARM Ll48 P389 DEEDS. 8/189 15,298 SQ FT

FORT ST27 SUB OF PT OF PC NO 473 L47 P558-9 DEEDS, WC 50 X130
FORT ST 42.31.171.473 L47 DEEDS, R1018 42.81 130
FORT STW 473 L47 P553-9 DEEDS, [0/8 35 IRREG

MACKS ?ll 52 LINE BGS 553.23 FTGH LTNE OFE 106 42 22LYGN MAEKAVE
124 WDPIAN 0F SUB OF CS 385 336 P494 DEEDS, 21510 53,433 SQ FT

WZOTH P265 PALTS, WC 1112/20 30 135.4A

W20TH 30 FT OF SS9 FT7 THRU 10 WESSON SUB L4 1112125 30 X120
20TH 30 60 THRU 10 WESSON ?5 INGERSOLLS SUB L4 P12 FLATS, 1112125 30 X120

Page 2 of 2

EXHIBIT to Resolution 3

 

Transfer Areas

See attached.

2. I-94:Industrial Park - Area 2

 

 

HuberrSt 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ge -St 

 

6H1 

 

 

 

 

 

ii??MarcusSt 

 



 

 

 

 

6l9  6203 [20?

 

.

Domine St.

 

 

9on1l 1?90?09

 

6H0 II

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?54!

 

 

 

 

 

3. 1-94 Industrial Park Area 3



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Debuel?St

 

 

 

425

Foster St

Heintz St

15 
15 poowaqs 

 

 

6180

6336

can
.
8

 

 

 

 

H15

 

GIJS

 

 

 

 

 

 

mum:

 

 

 

 

 

I
I

6462 6465 6474 I
6504 65M 65" 6522 6530



 

 

 

we am ?76574

 

 

Gamm? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"-"Foster St

 

 

 

 

 

Jf' ?2115

 

Concord St

1. Bridge Areas 1 Sc 2 near St. Anne St

                       

 

   

 

 

. ISII
7 7 I .
7 '54' I433 I502 Li}

jgu?, NH ISJI l535 aways H73 
'5'5 ?5w. '46- H74 Im
. 5 151a 2662 165? ?34 - 1457 
a I "57 NH
. - I458
Austin-St ?53 
_l447 H44
ms I 3
44 llI43:
m9 In? I416 I413
I419 Id? 351: I 
- 
?'15 11170 2559 3545-1?; m5 Porter 5t.
Iw; I403
ms. 2415
Porter Sr. 
4w ?POl'ter St
:60! 
. - w- 25:? :m i Porter St I314
rte 
PO - rs 9 - 1 I124 ?3 IJII m"
I '3Ill? 1m! _ 3ll . I: 51'
- -. I301 IJOJ 
?05
I . 
. m, Cromwe? SI: :2914531 39 15:9 
1155 I159 . 1 I185 I271 
1. .I .1252 7
'15? um I175
me a mm an 9 "go-101.2. 7
Howm . In; 1?3? "5
2? I - "Sampson St :25! ?5:37?
As I'm. .
4? I141 31 m4 I233
.:55 3? 3-25 nun-.1533
In] F, um
m7
n23
I?ll 

m: 3 1M 2553 mu I107
'9 
f'l
JOM - 3307 .
um 40ng I Inn ?15? 5t
. Inn 1005 nose -
'9 Ios'I IM-
m? HMS
. 
?100 2635 
wan-111 I025 I013 I027 I027 
?m Ion Inn
. mo l0]? 
um um:
Key -. 3016 mm mt
. loo]
0 Transfer Area . . "WESt?LafayetterBd
I 
. 33? m. ?Jl'a?Jles *1 if: In
. so:
City Property . . 5
u: 7 '51! 795 [2
Rail 785 7% 135
-

 

 

 

 efftesQn Conner Freud a Lyc?aste Eidlie 


Uh
1-1" LII:


m. 11v?
RB
1:5:
Ulla 

Irma
'26?
I353 I356
1149
Ii?
Inc.
131-:
?u
'31? . IJIE

3:21:55
5

Ed'leSt
HI
?3


15 #3352141

Key

 

a Transfer Area
City property
Rail

 

I313
I320 lm
I3I1
'30, mo
I303 I301
I197 I296
I193 I191 I197
I135 I286
I179 I273
I175 I272
5?
I263 I260 3
I251 I154 g'
I15I I150 1265 
In
I343 . I141 
I139 ms
nu I130
I121 I114 I111
Izls 
an
m:
an
[no I :09
I103

 

:13- EdlieHSt

 

bin;

55? Ilia:

LYCASTE ?5

 

 

8. Area near LycaSte/Edlie

I100
TERMINAL
6?
IINOE





9. Area near Triple Barrels

533:
JE?erson A Ve

Clairpufn Be A



34:
Ill.


MU 

'Ivflf
3455
I359
I353
i 347

334

5. TrOmbley Triangle - Hamtramck- Drive



- . 
IMIIE
g: 


Key

Hartwick St

Clay St:

 

Transfer Area

. City property
Rail

 


a ,i?i
43IOWE
1" MD
ILVD
73m
BITE
Gm
BLVD

 

 

CLAY
I975

15w .- -

tH-Tt

 


15? 
GRAND
BLVD
"255 .

East Grand Bd

31:,me LUBH

WEthErbee SF

1515 

LVD

 

?Dwe?mmH

Pa 9??9 15m

6. 18th Street Lots FOrt St



I017



Il'n':

Iu'hll

[8th St

775

2600

2535

as JBAEJL 

2520 2500

Key

l7th St 

1504

1-1 

 

Transfer Area
City property
Rail

 

 

 

mu.

2300

16th St

IJDOW

ndow
LAFAYETTE
2215
HOWARD
LL-I,

West Lafayette Bd 

U)
-5

2250 1100
lul
if}
.C
1.:
Ln
213. 
2271 l?
2280
Westje?erson Ave
:I?l

14th St


U)

I:
0

HOWARD (D


I000 0
a:
a

. 
IIOI
I950
2051

1m 1030

U)
1.:




I
E. 
1cm 
Hill FORT I932
FORT
15;" 1&5 - 7
I59
7W
JEFERSON



7. West Grand Toledo

 


-.- a an
3 

.7 . 

lilo


VINIWOOD
as
1330



2m G)
7 2m 
n.
1309 2300 m1 
2303 FL
I.
iToIedoSF 

.l 
ms ran 
?53 m; 3925- am 2:Key 588
1E1 2.092 5?7 534
sas
Transfer Area 
m:
C. 53' 57a
property 2074 s79 57?
Raul mo 57: 572

 

 

 

 

35 glaAaSOO?d

3625

Ills

Ill?



ZIOS
210!

2093

2077

1063

 

45 $53

1415 24TH
ST

15?

TOLEDO

2l30

II II



IIOO
2094
2086

2m

2068

1062

IHE

2220 14TH
ST

1187 14TH
ST

 

I193 
51-13de 5113 I .
mell?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3
I

zueuog

m. ..,

.r I

07.7777

51?: 
1:3:r

422::

mu 

chai-
Etar:
liitl
lt?fi
Irlf:
. {i?ti
Qi?il
.. 

teas: 



Etii:

5m: mm


It:4:



15 walks

1 

19:1:
. 
Ch 

:Iztr


szzit


S?l:l
5::1


xnr:l


E956

(till

:ott:



15 ueaow

5911!


91Z?l
IOILI
CHILI
P?ltl

:vrg?
125::




6ttll

If!? lot?

?lfal
lift}
w?

my awOJaI'


:?fil
f?Etl
2}
ha:
'oi'm
'?lial

u4::I



I91J I


011::
??itf
:aiL{


?lfl

GiiKl
;21?l -

'Giill



r-rxu 

15 4339?)!

UHIMSE ?it" 

3?

mm .9)

out:
?ail
am:
am:
mt:

?it:

i55t1



Pi?fl
?e?Il
Ib?fl




no

15 uJaq'MaN

:Uh!

OIOWLVD
Slit

tyne



will? 



cm 

;ciil
agar:
star:
Spas:
ISBEJ
esan

h?iil
Stir:
li?ii
mau?
fill:
gait:

:1hr1' 






i?ft

IOIE


9ZBEI


am:
053::
mu:
193::

HVUEI
VLBEI



BGSEI
EOGCI
OIGCI
.9I6tl
C16f 
BIGEI
riti:
?rst:

 

 

 

 

as 

 



iOlti

?_sist:



IZBEI
SIBEI
SEBEI
GEUEI
SVEEI
{Sift
LSSEI
E9BEI
ODBEI

iahk:
was:
teat:

506EI

ll?El

 

 

cm: 

stat:
scat:
era:

Stat:

50!!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Charest

oar 
?5:3



zzn's':

EEBEI

statl

:s?as: 
ms:

E9EEI

698E: -

mt: 

last!
:B?tr
(sail
653::

IIGEI
1:52:


ms:? 

 

SEGEI

IDGCI

ts?tl
asifl'

?bril



um: 

blitl
"0:51:
"a?at:
vt?tl
cans:



H9ifl

DLUEI

teat:
seat:

906::
9:51:
?es:

ilbtl

'5':th
MEI
"mt:
'zsatl
mt:

51:1:

. 3.-
aum: IOIE 

FQIJI



AOFII







Ilatl

mi: 

 

GESEI
Si?fl
:sat:
lS?fl
[98tl

h$ifl

 

 

IBSEI
SSEEI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   



a? "23:10.33?

um - 

 

 

 

um:
stat:
cm:
stat:
MEI
mt:
959::
the}:

Inns: 
2m": 
Eras:

stat:
:iit:
LSBET
Evatl'

cm:

as?
test:
stat: 
5m:

159::


 

SEBEI

 

ZEOEI

 

as 


bJadOJd K413 El

294V Rpm; 

 

 

a9hE:
'riatf_
uses:
ms:


St?il


that:

2%

i'i1i??

s?ifl
'ta?fl
tibir' Wait-I?
?mir 'rw'l?
'nlai: iuafl
.fl21}__
WEEK: 
mm wait"
Rm" 
?2m: 
. iriff
Esiif
753:?? 
"Fi?fi

avati" '__i?ifl

ih?tf

ouxay

B?iff


Ea??r
nm

1:9 Il?ilii'iw

 

?4390' 
asst:



1151:.-
056?!

.151:
mu 
Iaiti
?cit: 
shat:

Itch: 
:tnr:
:rnr:

. asst

cut:
me: 

5

I nl?tl

zcui:
Intv:
'nori:
3hr??

15 nedweg qdasof
_mv splou?a?a 

Ltorl'



ttIrI

'Irz?:



astuomvr





Lila:
ECILI

unit?:




I?tl


35 awcuaf- 

slat 



m: mi mt

Hill:


. . .pri}?

ISILI


aim .
aeIL1"
99?! 

lulzl

?gfgf. 

.L I Mil:Id ".59

- .si?m-
alul'



-
sill: .

a?

- um. 3'
am: 

4:33. um

.

'vi?if 

mm 

?dizi: 

?y 3'
Jilz?a?an?ur .
J's


tami-
Em:


feat":
war? I
?Eh?fl
IA (is:


?iifi
mi":
:rtii
"??ksi3

1:17-23






Inim- 3f 

 S 21u1
tiltl

- a

81:: 

 

meDykeAnp .011 Area Indusuial Land

. 
?Ml?i?x??l?d

i 

 

         

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

153. 12121? Mack near project area

mo:
HACK

MACK
I ll

I

Key;- i

 

Transfer Area
City Property
- Rail

 

Mack Station Drive

 

 

?ll!
CONNER

IZIDI
HACK

Ill}!

I1I47 
mx

 

 



Mack Service?Drive -

4600

East Can?eld?St

4426

. ?u?D
1S xau

EXHIBIT to Resolution 3
Budd Plant Property
Land in the City of Detroit, County of Wayne, and State of Michigan, described as:
PARCEL A:

LAND IN THE CITY OF DETROIT, WAYNE COUNTY, MICHIGAN, BEING THAT PART
OF PRIVATE CLAIM NO. 388, WHICH IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: COMMENCING
AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE, 60
FEET WIDE, WITH THE WESTERLY LINE OF CONNER AVENUE, 86 FEET 
THENCE NORTH 25 DEGREES 53 MINUTES 53 SECONDS WEST, ALONG THE
WESTERLY LINE OF SAID CONNER AVENUE, 2203.01 FEET TO THE POINT OF
THENCE SOUTH 63 DEGREES 59 MINUTES 20 SECONDS WEST, 352.57
FEET TO THE WESTERLY LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388; THENCE NORTH 25
DEGREES 58 MINUTES 53 SECONDS WEST, 184.73 FEET, TO THE SOUTHERLY LINE
OF NEW MACK AVENUE RIGHT OF THENCE, ALONG THE SOUTHERLY LINE
OF NEW MACK AVENUE, 11.47 FEET ON THE ARC OF A CURVE TO THE RIGHT (NOT
TANGENT TO THE PREVIOUS COURSE) WITH A RADIUS OF 1382.50 FEET, A DELTA
ANGLE OF 00 DEGREES 28 MINUTES 31 SECONDS AND ALONG CHORD WHICH
BEARS NORTH 86 DEGREES 27 MINUTES 20 SECONDS EAST, 11.47 FEET, TO A
POINT OF THENCE NORTH 86 DEGREES 41 MINUTES 36 SECONDS
EAST, 370.68 FEET TO THE INTERSECTION OF THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF NEW
MACK AVENUE, WITH THE WESTERN LINE OF CONNER AVENUE, 86 FEET 
THENCE SOUTH 25 DEGREES 53 MINUTES 53 SECONDS EAST, ALONG THE
WESTERLY LINE OF SAID CONNER AVENUE, 37.27 FEET, TO THE POINT OF
BEGINNING. TOGETHER WITH AND SUBJECT TO AN BASEMENT FOR DETROIT
EDISON DESCRIBED AS BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE WESTERLY LINE OF
CONNER AVENUE, 86 FEET WIDE, SOUTH 25 DEGREES 53 MINUTES 53 SECONDS
EAST, 26.33 FEET FROM THE INTERSECTION OF THE WESTERLY LINE OF CONNER
AVENUE AND THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF RELOCATED MACK THENCE
SOUTH 25 DEGREES 53 MINUTES 53 SECONDS EAST, ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE
OF CONNER AVENUE, 10.94 THENCE SOUTH 63 DEGREES 59 MINUTES 20
SECONDS WEST, ALONG SAID LINE 57.05 THENCE NORTH 67 DEGREES 29
MINUTES 47 SECONDS WEST, 129.61 FEET TO THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF
RELOCATED MACK THENCE NORTH 89 DEGREES 41 MINUTES 36
SECONDS EAST, ALONG SAID LINE 114.84 THENCE SOUTH 67 DEGREES 29
MINUTES 47 SECONDS EAST, 55.84 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

PARCEL B:

PART OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388 DESCRIBED AS COMMENCING AT THE
INTERSECTION OF THE NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE (60 FEET
WIDE) AND THE WESTERLY LINE OF CONNER AVENUE (86 FEET THENCE
ALONG SAID WESTERLY LINE OF CONNER AVENUE NORTH 25 DEGREES 53
MINUTES 03 SECONDS WEST, 2202.55 FEET TO A THENCE SOUTH 64
DEGREES 07 MINUTES 00 SECONDS WEST, 352.57 FEET TO A POINT ON THE

WESTERLY LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388; THENCE SOUTH 25 DEGREES 55
MINUTES 17 SECONDS EAST ALONG SAID WESTERLY LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM
388, 1709.84 FEET TO A POINT ON THE WEST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388; THENCE
SOUTH 30 DEGREES 00 MINUTES 45 SECONDS EAST, 72.19 FEET TO A 
THENCE SOUTH 27 DEGREES 29 MINUTES 47 SECONDS EAST, 97.15 FEET TO A
THENCE SOUTH 27 DEGREES 19 MINUTES 44 SECONDS EAST, 327.22 FEET
TO A POINT ON SAID NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX THENCE
NORTH 63 DEGREES 30 MINUTES 45 SECONDS EAST, 335.24 FEET TO THE POINT OF
BEGINNING. SUBJECT TO ANY RIGHTS FOR AN EASEMENT FOR RAILROAD
PURPOSES IN THE DETROIT-TERMINAL RAILROAD OR ITS SUCCESSORS OR
ASSIGNS, OVER A STRIP OF LAND ALONG THE WESTERLY SIDE OF THE ABOVE
PARCEL OF WHICH IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT
ON THE NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE (60 FEET WIDE), SAID POINT
LYING WESTERLY ON A COURSE SOUTH 63 DEGREES 30 MINUTES 45 SECONDS
WEST, 321.12 FEET (MEASURED ALONG THE NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX
AVENUE) FROM THE INTERSECTION OF SAID NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX
AVENUE (60 FEET WIDE) WITH THE WESTERLY LINE OF CONNER AVENUE (86
FEET THENCE SOUTH 63 DEGREES 30 MINUTES 45 SECONDS WEST ALONG
THE NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE 14.12 FEET TO A POINT, SAID
POINT LYING EASTERLY 15.83 FEET FROM ITS INTERSECTION WITH THE
WESTERLY LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388; THENCE NORTH 27 DEGREES 19
MINUTES 44 SECONDS WEST, 327.22 FEET TO A POINT OF THENCE NORTH
27 DEGREES 29 MINUTES 47 SECONDS WEST, 97.15 FEET TO A POINT ON THE
NORTHERLY LINE OF THE SOUTH 12 ACRES OF LOT 19 OF PRIVATE
CLAIM 385 AND 386 FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE HENRY IF THE SAME
WERE EXTENDED IN A DIRECT LINE THENCE EASTERLY ALONG THE
NORTHERLY LINE OF SAID SOUTH 12 ACRES OF LOT 19, IF THE SAME WERE
EXTENDED IN A DIRECT LINE EASTERLY, 9.85 FEET TO A SAID POINT ALSO
LYING 15.00 FEET EASTERLY FROM THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF SAID SOUTH 12
ACRES OF LOT 19; THENCE SOUTH 27 DEGREES 56 MINUTES 40 SECONDS EAST,
424.44 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. TOGETHER WITH AND SUBJECT TO
ANY REVERSIONARY INTERESTS RETAINED IN FAVOR OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
AND TRANSFERRED TO THE BUDD COMPANY, OVER AND ACROSS ADJACENT
CHARLEVOIX AVENUE, AS SET FORTH AND DISCLOSED IN LIBER 25517, PAGE. 241,
WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

PARCEL C:

THAT PART OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388 DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT THE
INTERSECTION OF THE WEST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388 AND THE NORTH LINE
OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE (60 FEET THENCE NORTH 29 DEGREES 07
MINUTES 16 SECONDS WEST ALONG THE WEST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388,
496.42 THENCE SOUTH 33 DEGREES 12 MINUTES 44 SECONDS EAST, 72.19
FEET TO A POINT WHICH IS NORTH 60 DEGREES 13 MINUTES 17 SECONDS EAST,
5.15 FEET FROM THE WEST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388; THENCE SOUTH 30
DEGREES 41 MINUTES 46 SECONDS EAST, 97.15 FEET TO A POINT, WHICH IS
NORTH 59 DEGREES 28 MINUTES 17 SECONDS EAST, 7.84 FEET FROM TIRE WEST
LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388; THENCE SOUTH 30 DEGREES 31 MINUTES 43

SECONDS EAST, 327.22 FEET TO THE NORTH LINE OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE
THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 13 MINUTES 17 SECONDS WEST ALONG THE NORTH
LINE OF CHARLEVOIX 15.88 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. ALSO,
BEGINNING AT A POINT IN THE NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE
WHERE INTERSECTED BY THE EAST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385 BEING ALSO
THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 19 PLAN OF THE SUBDIVISION OF PRIVATE
CLAIM 385 AND 386 FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE HENRY CONNOR OF GROSSE
POINTE, MICHIGAN, THENCE NORTH 29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES 16 SECONDS WEST
ALONG SAID EAST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385, 424.35 FEET TO A THENCE
SOUTH 60 DEGREES 13 MINUTES 17 SECONDS WEST 15.00 FEET TO A POINT,
THENCE SOUTH 31 DEGREES 08 MINUTES 46 SECONDS EAST, 424.45 FEET TO THE
BEGINNING. ALSO, BEGINNING AT A POINT IN THE NORTHERLY LINE OF
CHARLEVOIX AVENUE WHERE INTERSECTED BY THE WEST LINE OF PRIVATE
CLAIM 388; THENCE NORTH 60 DEGREES 13 MINUTES 17 SECONDS EAST ALONG
THE NORTHERLY LINE OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE, 15.88 FEET TO A 
THENCE NORTH 30 DEGREES 31 MINUTES 43 SECONDS WEST 327.22 FEET TO A
THENCE NORTH 30 DEGREES 41 MINUTES 46 SECONDS WEST, 97.15 FEET
TO A THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 13 MINUTES 17 SECONDS WEST, 5.15
FEET TO A POINT IN THE SAID WEST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 388; THENCE SOUTH
29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES 16 SECONDS EAST, ALONG SAID WEST LINE OF PRIVATE
CLAIM 388, 424.35 FEET TO THE BEGINNING. TOGETHER WITH AND SUBJECT TO
ANY REVERSIONARY INTERESTS RETAINED IN FAVOR OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
AND TRANSFERRED TO THE BUDD COMPANY, OVER AND ACROSS ADJACENT
CHARLEVOIX AVENUE, AS SET FORTH AND DISCLOSED IN LIBER 25517, PAGE 241,
WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

PARCEL D:

PART OF LOTS OR OUTLOTS, 20 AND 21 OF THE SUBDIVISION OF PRIVATE CLAIMS
385 AND 386 FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE H. CONNOR OF GROSSE POINTE,
ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF, RECORDED IN LIBER 49, PAGE 494 OF DEEDS,
WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS, MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT A POINT MARKED BY A CONCRETE MONUMENT, SAID
MONUMENT BEING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE EASTERLY LINE OF CONNER
LANE (33 FEET WIDE) AND MACK AVENUE AS NOW WIDENED AND 
THENCE NORTH 52 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 30 SECONDS EAST, ALONG THE
SOUTHERLY LINE OF MACK AVENUE, 301.90 FEET TO A THENCE NORTH 60
DEGREES 47 MINUTES 50 SECONDS EAST, CONTINUING ALONG THE SOUTHERLY
LINE OF MACK AVENUE, 843.02 FEET TO A POINT, SAID POINT BEING IDENTIFIED
BY A CONCRETE THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES 09 MINUTES 30
SECONDS EAST, ALONG THE EASTERLY LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385 1064.31 FEET
TO A THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 28 MINUTES 50 SECONDS WEST, 1143.50
FEET TO A POINT ON THE EAST LINE OF CONNER LANE (33 FEET WIDE) SAID
POINT BEING MARKED BY A CONCRETE MONUMENT THENCE NORTH 29 DEGREES
03 MINUTES 00 SECONDS WEST ALONG THE EASTERLY LINE OF CONNORS LANE,
1025.91 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. EXCEPTING THEREFROM THE
FOLLOWING PORTION OF LAND: PART OF LOT 21 OF OF SUBDIVISION OF
PRIVATE CLAIMS 385 AND 386 FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE H. CONNOR OF

GROSSE AS RECORDED IN LIBER 49 PAGE 494 OF DEEDS, WAYNE
COUNTY RECORDS, BEING MORE PARTICULARLY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE EASTERLY LINE OF CONNER LANE, 33
FEET WIDE, WITH THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF MACK AVENUE, AS WIDENED ON
MAY 7, 1926; THENCE THE FOLLOWING TWO COURSES ALONG THE SOUTHERLY
LINE OF SAID MACK AVENUE, NORTH 56 DEGREES 04 MINUTES 49 SECONDS EAST,
301.85 THENCE NORTH 64 DEGREES 03 MINUTES 26 SECONDS EAST, 841.43
THENCE SOUTH 25 DEGREES 58 MINUTES 53 SECONDS EAST, 199.13 FEET, TO
A LINE 50.00 FEET SOUTHERLY OF AND CONCENTRIC WITH THE CONSTRUCTION
CENTER LINE OF THE MACK AVENUE IMPROVEMENTS THENCE THE FOLLOWING
TWO COURSES ALONG SAID 798.51 FEET ON THE ARC OF A CURVE TO THE
LEFT TO THE PREVIOUS COURSE, WITH A RADIUS OF 1382.50 FEET,
A DELTA ANGLE OF 33 DEGREES 05 MINUTES 35 SECONDS AND A LONG CHORD
WHICH BEARS SOUTH 69 DEGREES 40 MINUTES 13 SECONDS WEST, 787.46 FEET TO
THE POINT OF THENCE SOUTH 53 DEGREES 07 MINUTES 30 SECONDS
WEST, 363.79 FEET TO THE EASTERLY LINE OF CONNER LANE, 33 FEET 
THENCE ALONG, THE EASTERLY LINE OF CONNER LANE, NORTH 25 DEGREES 43
MINUTES 01 SECONDS WEST, 149.20 FEET TO THE SOUTHERLY LINE OF MACK
AVENUE, AND THE POINT OF BEGINNING OF SAID EXCEPTED PARCEL. TOGETHER
WITH AND SUBJECT TO ANY REVERSIONARY INTERESTS RETAINED IN FAVOR OF
THE CITY OF DETROIT AND TRANSFERRED TO THE BUDD COMPANY, OVER AND
ACROSS ADJACENT CONNER LANE, AS SET FORTH AND DISCLOSED IN LIBER
25517, PAGE 241, WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

PARCEL E:

ALL THAT PART OF LOT 20 OF THE SUBDIVISION, OF PRIVATE CLAIMS 385 AND
386 MADE FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE H. CONNOR, DECEASED, A: FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE EAST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385, SAID POINT
BEING NORTH 29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES 16 SECONDS WEST, 944.37 FEET FROM THE
NORTH LINE OF CHARLEVOIX THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 49 MINUTES
40 SECONDS WEST, 189.03 FEET TO A THENCE NORTH 29 DEGREES 07
MINUTES 16 SECONDS WEST, 7.58 FEET TO A THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES
16 MINUTES 45 SECONDS WEST, 355.98 FEET TO A THENCE NORTH 29
DEGREES 07 MINUTES 16 SECONDS WEST, 574.06 FEET TO A THENCE
NORTH 60 DEGREES 28 MINUTES 50 SECONDS. EAST, 545.00 FEET TO A POINT ON
THE EAST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385; THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES
16 SECONDS EAST, ALONG THE EAST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385, 581.53 FEET TO
THE POINT OF BEGINNING.

PARCEL F:

ALL THAT PART OF LOTS 19 AND 20 OF THE SUBDIVISION OF PRIVATE CLAIMS
385 AND 336 MADE FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE H. CONNOR, DESCRIBED AS
FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT ON THE EAST LINE OF CONNER LANE, SAID
POINT BEING NORTH 29 DEGREES 03 MINUTES 00 SECONDS WEST, 497.09 FEET
FROM THE NORTH LINE OF CHARLEVOIX THENCE CONTINUING ALONG
THE EAST LINE OF CONNER LANE, NORTH 29 DEGREES 03 MINUTES 00 SECONDS

WEST, 1032.86 FEET TO A THENCE NORTH 60 DEGREES 28 MINUTES 50
SECONDS EAST, 598.50 FEET TO A THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES
16 SECONDS EAST, 574.06 FEET TO A THENCE NORTH 60 DEGREES 16
MINUTES 45 SECONDS EAST, 355.98 FEET TO A THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES
07 MINUTES 16 SECONDS EAST, 7.58 FEET TO A POINT THENCE NORTH, 60
DEGREES 49 MINUTES 40 SECONDS EAST, 189.03 FEET TO A POINT ON THE EAST
LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385; THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES 16
SECONDS EAST, ALONG THE EAST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385, 457.60 FEET TO A
THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 45 SECONDS 190 FEET TO
A THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES 16 SECONDS EAST, 19.64 FEET
TO A THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 45 SECONDS WEST, 798.50
FEET TO A THENCE NORTH 82 DEGREES 53 MINUTES 15 SECONDS WEST
49.98 FEET TO A THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 45 SECONDS
WEST, 116.02 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING TOGETHER WITH ALL RIGHT,
TITLE AND INTEREST, WHETHER BY WAY OF REVERSION OR OTHERWISE, IN AND
TO A STRIP OF LAND 16.50 FEET WIDE, LYING WEST OF AND ADJOINING THE
ABOVE DESCRIBED LAND. ALSO, TOGETHER WITH AND SUBJECT TO ANY
REVERSIONARY INTERESTS RETAINED IN FAVOR OF THE CITY OF DETROIT AND
TRANSF ERRED TO THE BUDD COMPANY, OVER AND ACROSS ADJACENT CONNER
LANE, AS SET FORTH AND DISCLOSED IN LIBER 25517, PAGE 241, WAYNE COUNTY
RECORDS.

PARCEL G:

ALL THAT PART OF LOTS 18 AND 19 OF THE SUBDIVISION OF PRIVATE CLAIMS
385 AND 386 MADE FOR THE HEIRS OF THE LATE H. CONNOR DECEASED, AS
FOLLOWS: BEGINNING AT A POINT, SAID POINT BEING THE INTERSECTION OF
THE EAST LINE OF CONNER LANE AND THE NORTH LINE OF CHARLEVOIX
THENCE NORTH 60 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 45 SECONDS EAST, ALONG
THE NORTH LINE OF CHARLEVOIX AVENUE, 1145.45 FEET TO A POINT ON THE
EAST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385; THENCE NORTH 29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES 16
SECONDS WEST, ALONG THE EAST LINE OF PRIVATE CLAIM 385, 486.77 FEET TO A
THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 45 SECONDS WEST, 190.00 FEET
TO A THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES 07 MINUTES 16 SECONDS EAST, 19.64
FEET TO A THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 45 SECONDS WEST
798.50 FEET TO A THENCE NORTH 82 DEGREES 53 MINUTES 15 SECONDS
WEST, 49.98 FEET TO A THENCE SOUTH 60 DEGREES 16 MINUTES 45
SECONDS WEST, 116.02 FEET TO A POINT ON THE EAST LINE OF CONNER 
THENCE SOUTH 29 DEGREES 03 MINUTES 00 SECONDS EAST, ALONG THE EAST
LINE OF CONNER LANE, 497.09 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. TOGETHER
WITH ALL RIGHT, TITLE AND INTEREST, WHETHER BY WAY OF REVERSION OR
OTHERWISE IN AND TO A STRIP OF LAND 16.50 FEET WIDE, LYING WEST OF AND
ADJ OINING THE ABOVE DESCRIBED LAND. ALSO, TOGETHER WITH AND SUBJECT
TO ANY REVERSIONARY INTERESTS RETAINED IN FAVOR OF THE CITY OF
DETROIT AND TRANSFERRED TO THE BUDD OVER AND ACROSS
ADJACENT CONNER LANE AND ADJACENT CHARLEVOIX AVENUE, AS SET FORTH
AND DISCLOSED IN LIBER 25517, PAGE 241, WAYNE COUNTY RECORDS.

THE ABOVE-RECITED LANDS BEING NOW COMBINED AND ASSESSED AS
FOLLOWS:

THAT PART OF P. C. 388 LYING WESTERLY OF CONNER AVENUE, BETWEEN
CHARLEVOIX AVENUE, AS OPENED, AND MACK AVENUE, AS WIDENED, EXCEPT
A NORTHERLY PORTION BEING 287.79 FEET ON THE EAST LINE THEREOF AND
195.56 FEET ON THE WEST LINE THEREOF ALSO, THAT PART OF LOTS (OUTLOTS)
21 THROUGH 18; INCLUSIVE, LYING BETWEEN CHARLEVOIX AVENUE, AS
OPENED, AND MACK AVENUE, AS WIDENED AND LAST IMPROVED IN THE
INDUSTRIAL REVITALIZATION PROJECT, SUBDIVISION OF
PC. 385 AND RC. 386, AS RECORDED IN LIBER 49, PAGE 494 OF DEEDS, WAYNE
COUNTY RECORDS.

Commonly known as: 12141 Charlevoix
Tax ID Nos.: Ward 21 Item 001115

EXHIBIT to Resolution 3

See attached.

PURCHASE OF BUDD PLANT SITE

Description

The City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority is acquiring the 82-acre site of the
former the Budd Plant (the ?Budd Plant Properly?) from Crown Enterprises, Inc. (?Crown?). The $54
million purchase price would be funded by a combination of $43.5 million in cash consideration and other
City-owned land valued at up to $10.5 million. If the swap properties are not acceptable through due
diligence, etc., the DBRA will replace the land with the cash value identi?ed for each prOperty. The
purchase price is subject to a $21 million increase in the event certain conditions are not met, a portion of
which may be payable by the City and DBRA according to the terms of the deve10pment agreement with

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FCA.

The acquired Budd Plant Property will be used by FCA for ?nished vehicle parking for the new Mack

facility and JNAP.

DBRA Receives from Crown

Property . General Address Acres 7 Value

Budd Plant Property 12141 Charlevoix 82.2 $54.000,000*

Subject to certain conditions.

Crown Receives from the DBRA

Properly General Address Acres Land Value

Bridge area 1 2 near St. Anne St 1.06 33,521
gl-94 Industrial Park - Area 2 9240 Mt. Elliott 14.53 12651854

I-94 Industrial Park Area 3 6445 Miller 9.74 843,549

Jefferson Conner Freud - chaste Edlie 696 Hart 4.77 500,000

Trombley Triangle - Hamtramck Drive 7529 St. Aubin 4.02 3251000

18th Street Lots Fort St _2091 Fort St 0.84 110,000

West Grand Toledo 3600 Toledo 3.09 310,000

Area near Lycaste/Edlie 1201 Terminal 0.25 32,670

Area near Triple Barrels 925 Clairpointe 0.24 31,363

Springwells Industrial Park 1420 Springwells Ct 28.45 2,600,000

UTS McNichols 17140 Mitchell 2.68 233,482

Van Dyke Airport Area - Industrial Land 1 1111 French Rd 45.58 3:970:930

12121 Mack near project area 12121 Mack 1.35 117,612

Total 116.60 10,483,980

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kev Crown Enterprise denl terms

. The Budd Plant Property is being conveyed directly to CA.

0 This agreement becomes effective 7 days following the City Council and DBRA Board Approval.
There is a 75 day inspection period; closing is 30 days following the completion of the inspection
period.

. Crown has the option to purchase property at market value in the UTS McNichols area.

. Crown has 6 months to bring to correct non-compliant conditions on the half of the acquired
parcels, and 1 year to bring all parcels into the compliance. During this year, the City reserves the
right to act ensure dangerous conditions are addressed. Three of the parcels include structures
currently on the demolition list and Crown has agreed to demolish those structures within 6
months of closing

Kev City of Detroit deal terms

. The City or DBRA will provide the land swap properties to Crown.

. The Springwells Property will be conveyed in 2025 when the current lease expires.

- The City will provide an expedited approval process for Crown?s intended development of
property for projects.

EXHIBIT to Resolution 3

 

See attached.

 


ILL-put

I




i



   

?lm?irt?I .HI95M. can . ourp.3.: InmalWINE-.FEWH .I-th. . I a. .. .ESI . in? . H. PI. WE: . 3.1. Go.
1.: . l. 
:5 I52.-. I
?nal....1.. .9. ..i7]:
3
=3
- Cum..I. -
. ME. Ioon? #53
2-. ~51- i . I I . aul man:
.2. til . 414?. fe?. . VTJI Wall
.3. .. . tan.w?ih. .
lust . .gk . .
. =n54 BE. .- 
.I I I wail ell437Iwix If: . IRE:51.de

s:


 

 

 

   

 

 

. .3 3. 21:: .. 1.3a.424. . .. ma?a nunul?H- 41H. 1? h-nnh . k. . . . if?. . inn-c ..uho c?nu?fb. .

RESOLUTION 4

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
and CA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of
approximately $2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants
(collectively the ?Projects?) to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City;
and

WHEREAS, in support of the Projects, the Detroit Land Bank Authority wishes to
transfer certain DLBA parcels as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A 
Parcels?); now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the sale of the DLBA Parcels to the
DBRA for the purchase price of One and 00/100 Dollar 

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A to Resolution 4

DLBA Parcels to DBRA
21062541. 419 ASHLAND
21062537. 435 ASHLAND
21062527. 475 ASHLAND
21062519. 511 ASHLAND
21062518. 517 ASHLAND
09010643. 17107 MCDOUGALL
09010074. 17136 CHAREST
09010476. 17106 MCDOUGALL
09010086. 17208 CHAREST
09010070. 17114 CHAREST
09010891. 17130 MITCHELL
09010890. 17122 MITCHELL
09010069. 17104 CHAREST
09010631. 17179 MCDOUGALL
10000094. 2703 HOWARD
12007625. 1419 20TH ST
12007628. 1401 20TH ST
10008097. 1029 ST ANNE
10008461. 1448 20TH ST
10008460. 1442 20TH ST
12007621. 1449 20TH ST
10000139001 2721 PORTER
10007134?9 734 18TH ST

l) (A %l COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808

DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
(313) 224-1339 - 

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
May 3, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, Michigan 48226

RE: Land Exchanges Property Sales
In Support of Mack 1 Plant, Mack 2 Plant, Jefferson North Assembly Plant Projects

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority and FCA
US LLC have been in discussions tO bring about the investment of approximately $2.5 billion in
Mack l, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Projects?) to expand
certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City. It is anticipated that the Projects will result in the
creation of approximately 4,950 additional FCA jobs in the City, as well as increase business and
economic Opportunities for related supplier and support industries.

In support of progressing the Projects forward, the City has worked with the DBRA to negotiate an
additional series Of real estate transactions that are vital to land assembly required to bring the Projects to
fruition (the ?Real Estate Transactions?). Attached hereto are three (3) separate resolutions approving the
Real Estate Transactions by and through the City?s Planning and Development Department 
which are summarized as follows:

0 Resolution 1 Pronertv Sale 1 Land EKCIEHEC Fodale Group 8.: Associat?

The City has received an Offer from Odale Group Associates (?Purchaser?) to purchase 4
City-owned properties and 68 parcels, more or less, owned by the Detroit Land Bank Authority
in exchange for: Purchaser?s transfer of 12001 and 12017 Mack Avenue (the
?Purchaser?s Exchange Properties?) to the DBRA and (2) monetary consideration Two Hundred
Eighty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars as ?lrther described in the attached
Resolution 1. Sale proceeds received by the City and DBRA pursuant to this sale, and related
sales to Road Land LLC (described in Resolution 2) and Trident Huber LLC will be
escrowed and made available to Purchaser to offset certain costs as described in ResolUtion 1.

It is intent to transfer the Purchaser?s Exchange Properties to CA for the Projects.
0 Resolution 2 Pronerttr Sale I Land Exchange Road Land LLC

The City has received an Offer from Road Land LLC (?Purchaser?) to purchase certain
City-owned parcels at 10600 Gratiot and part of 10644 Gratiot for a purchase price calculated at
$60,000 acre (?Purchase Price?) as further described in the attached Resolution 2. In the event
that the DBRA acquires part of the adjacent parcel located at 10780 Gratiot, such parcel will be
included in the sale at cost of purchase. Sale proceeds received by the City and DBRA
pursuant to this sale, and related sales to Fodale Group Associates (described in Resolution 1)
and Trident Huber LLC will be escrowed and made available to Purchaser tO Offset certain costs
as described in Resolution 2.



 

Resolution 3 Property Sale r? Land Exchange Crown Enterprises. Inc.

The City has received an offer from Crown Enterprises, Inc. (?Crown?) for Crown to transfer
12141 Charlevoix (the ?Charlevoix Progeny?) to the DBRA for a purchase price of Seventy-Five
Million and 00/100 Dollars subject to a potential reduction in the amount of
Twenty Million and 00/ 100 Dollars in certain circumstances. The purchase
price shall be payable as follows: (1) if Crown elects to purchase any of the approximately 261
properties, more or less, owned by City, the Detroit Land Bank Authority, or The Economic
Development Corporation of the City of Detroit to Crown, the value of the such property shall be
credited against the purchase price (2) the payment of Fifty-Four Million and 00/ 100
Dollars and, under certain circumstances, an additional Fifteen Million and
00/100 Dollars to Crown and (3) payment of Twenty One Million
and/100 Dollars or, under certain circumstances, Six Million and 00/100
Dollars to Crown as further described in the attached Resolution 3.

It is intent to transfer the Charlevoix Property to CA for the Projects.
Resolution 4 Land Transfer - Detroit Land Bank Authoritv to DBRA

The DLBA wishes to transfer certain parcels to the DBRA by land transfer agreement in
furtherance of the Projects and as further described in the attached Resolution 4.

The City is hereby requesting that your Honorable Body adopt the attached three (3) resolutions that
approve the above referenced Real Estate Transactions 1n support of the Projects.

Respectfully submitted,


CC:

  

I I 155'.- 
MauriCe Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department

S. Washington (Mayor?s Office)

RESOLUTION 1

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
and CA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately $2.5
billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Profects?) to
expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City; and

enter deal terms here 

RESOLUTION 2

BY COUNCIL MENIBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
and FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately $2.5
billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Protects? to
expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City; and

enter deal terms here]

RESOLUTION 3

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
and CA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately $2.5
billion in Mack l, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Proiecls?) to
expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City; and now therefore be it

enter deal terms here]

RESOLUTION 4

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority
and FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of
approximately $2.5 billion in Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively
the ?Proiects?j to expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City; and

WHEREAS, in support of the Projects, the Detroit Land Bank Authority wishes to transfer
certain DLBA parcels as more particularly described in the attached Exhibit A Parcels?); now
therefore be it

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the sale of the DLBA Parcels to the DBRA
for the purchase price of One and 00/] 00 Dollar 

(See Attached Exhibit A)

RESOLUTION 4 - EXHIBIT A

21062541.
21062537.
21062527.
21062519.
21062518.
09010643.
09010074.
09010476.
09010086.
09010070.
09010891.
09010890.
09010069.
09010631.
10000094.
12007625.
12007628.
10008097.
10008461.
10008460.
12007621.
10000139001
10007134-9

DLBA PARCELS

419ASHLAND
435ASHLAND
475ASHLAND
511.4SEH4APH)
517ASHLAND
17107 MCDOUGALL
17136 CHAREST
17106 MCDOUGALL
17208 CHAREST
17114 CHAREST
17130 MITCHELL
17122 MITCHELL
17104 CHAREST
17179 MCDOUGALL
2703 HOWARD
141920TTIST

1401 20TH ST

1029 ST ANNE

1448 20TH ST

1442 20TTIST
14492OTTIST

2721 PORTER
73418TTIST

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
May 03 2019
Detroit City Council

1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Amended Resolution - Land Exchange Property Sales
In Support of Mac 1 Plant, Mac 2 Plant, Jefferson North Assembly Plant Projects

Honorable City Council:

The City Of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority and CA US
LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately $2.5 billion in
Mack 1, Mack 2 and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Projects?) to expand certain
industrial automotive manufacturing in the City. It is anticipated that the Projects will result in the creation
of approximately 4,950 additional FCA jobs in the City, as well as increase business and economic
opportunities for related supplier and support industries.

In support Of progressing the Projects forward, the City has worked with the DBRA to negotiate a series
of additional real estate transactions that are vital to land assembly required to bring the Projects to
fruition (the ?Real Estate Transactions?). The City would like to amend Resolution 4 of the Real Estate
Transactions resolutions that were approved by City Council on Tuesday, April 30, 2019 (?Resolution
which approved the sale of six (6) certain City parcels (?City Parcels?) to Michael Kelly or an
af?liated entity controlled by Michael Kelly (?Kelly Entities?) in exchange for the transfer of 3873, 3963
and 4621 St. Jean and 5732 Winslow to the DBRA and the City?s receipt of additional fair value for the
City Parcels from the DBRA.

The City now wishes to amend Resolution 4 to add one (1) additional parcel to the list of parcels that the
Kelly Entities will transfer to the DBRA and removes ?ve (5) parcels and adds one (1) parcel to the list Of
City Parcels the City will transfer to the Kelly Entities. Additionally, the amended resolution settles with
the Kelly Entities certain in personam actions for property tax liabilities for the tax years 2015 and prior, as
well as settles certain blight violations with the Kelly Entities for all years prior to the approval date of the
attached resolution.

The City is hereby requesting that your Honorable Body adopt the attached amended version 01811-16
Resolution 4 in support Of the Projects.

Respectfully submitted, 

   
 

hr

Maurice Cox, Director
Planning and Development Department

cc: Stephanie Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

AMENDED RESOLUTION 4

BY COUNCIL MEMBER:

 

WHEREAS, the City of Detroit City of Detroit Brown?eld Redevelopment Authority 
and FCA US LLC have been in discussions to bring about the investment of approximately $2.5
billion in Mack 1, Mack 2, and Jefferson North Assembly Plants (collectively the ?Projects?) to
expand certain industrial automotive manufacturing in the City; and

WHEREAS, the Detroit City Council approved a resolution on Tuesday, April 30, 2019 known as
Resolution 4 (?Resolution to sell certain six (6) parcels of land (?Original City Parcels?) to Michael
Kelly or an af?liated entity controlled by Michael Kelly (referred to herein as ?Purchaser?) in exchange for
Purchaser?s transfer of 3873, 3963 and 4621 St. Jean and 5732 Winslow; and

WHEREAS, the City now wishes to amend Resolution 4 to: add one (1) additional parcel to the list of
parcels that the Purchaser will transfer to the DBRA, (2) remove ?ve (5) parcels and add (1) parcel to the
list of parcels the City will transfer to the Purchaser, (3) settle certain in personam actions with respect to
property tax liability for the years 2015 with the Purchaser and (4) settle certain blight violations with the
Purchaser for those years prior to the approval date of this resolution; and now therefore be it

RESOLVED, that in support of the Projects, the Detroit City Council hereby amends Resolution 4 such
that the Original City Parcels list for sale to Purchaser as provided in Resolution 4 is hereby replaced with
the attached Resolution 4 Amended Exhibit A incorporated herein so that only a total of two (2) City-
owned parcels are approved for sale to the Purchaser (?Amended Citv Parcels?); and be it ?trther

RESOLVED, that in exchange for the Amended City Parcels, Purchaser shall now transfer of 3873, 3963
and 4621 St. Jean, 5732 Winslow and 6394 Richardson, as more particularly described in the attached
Resolution 4 Amended Exhibit B, to the DBRA for incorporation into the Projects; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the City shall receive additional fair value for the Amended City Parcels from the DBRA
at a future date under separate agreement between the City and the and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves that any and all claims that the City may have
against Purchaser for in personam tax liability for tax years 2015 and prior for Purchaser?s real property in
the City of Detroit are hereby deemed settled in full; and be it further

RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves that any and all claims that the City may have
against Purchaser for all blight violations prior to the approval date of this resolution for Purchaser?s real
property in the City of Detroit are hereby deemed settled in full; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute quit claim deeds and such other documents as may be necessary or
convenient to effect the transfer of the Amended City Parcels to Purchaser consistent with this resolution;

and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any required
instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim deeds (including
but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing of tender of possession of
particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor inaccuracies or are required due

to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise prior to the conveyance of the Amended
City Parcels, provided that the changes do not materially alter the substance or terms of the transfer and
sale; and be it ?lrther

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed for the Amended City Parcels will be considered con?rmed when
executed by the Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as
to form; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the City?s Chief Financial Of?cer and Treasurer are hereby authorized to adjust the
necessary balances and accounts to re?ect the settlements with Purchaser as authorized by this resolution.

(See Attached Amended Exhibits A and B)

RESOLUTION 4 - AMENDED EXHIBIT A
AMENDED CITY PARCELS
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:
Parcel 1
DEXTER 6 7 SULLIVANS DEXTER BLVD SUB L46 P30 PLATS, 12/287 77 120
a/k/a 13118 Dexter
Tax Parcel ID 12010559-60
Parcel 2

HARBOR ISLAND 1 AND 10 FT STIP ADJ LOT 1 8 FT 2 FREUDS FOX CREEK SUB
L27 P2 PLATS, 21/299 38 X120

a/k/a 14818 Harbor Island
Tax ParCel ID 21000182

RESOLUTION 4 AMENDED EXHIBIT 
PURCHASER PARCELS TO THE DBRA
Parcel 1
ST JEAN 73 LIEBERMANS HOMEDALE SUB L28 P75 PLATS, 21/537 30 140

a/k/a 3873 St. Jean
Tax Parcel ID 21044054.

Parcel 2

ST JEAN 22.30 FT OF 88 14.02 FT OF 87 LIBERMANS HOMEDLE SUB L28 P75
PLATS, 21/537 36.32 X140

a/k/a 3963 St. Jean
Tax Parcel ID 210440040.

Parcel 3
ST JEAN 12 HANS A CHRISTIANSENS SUB L30 P71 PLATS, 21/548 32 140

a/k/a 4621 St. Jean
Tax Parcel ID 21043990.

Parcel 4
WINSLOW 36 MARY A DAMMS SUB L12 P6 PLATS, 12/115 30 116

a/k/a 5732 Winslow
Tax Parcel ID 12006645.

Parcel 5
RICHARDSON 95 HOWES SUB L13 P24 PLATS, 15/162 30 110

a/k/a 6394 Richarson
Tax Parcel ID 15001758.

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224?1339 - TTYz7ll

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

    

 

April 26, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale of 450 W. Congress, Detroit, MI
Request for Authorization to Amend 2019-20 Budget

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
450 Associates LLC (?Purchaser?), a Michigan limited liability company, to purchase certain City-
owned real property at 450 W. Congress (the ?Property?), formerly known as the Millennium
Garage, for the purchase price of Eighteen Million Six Hundred Fifty Thousand and 00/100 Dollars


The Purchaser proposes to utilize the Property for operation of a parking garage. Currently, the
Property is within the PCA zoning district (Public Center Adjacent District). The Purchaser?s
proposed use of the Property is consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is zoned.

We request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the Director of

to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Purchaser.

N35

Respectfully submitted,

  

Maurice D. Cox
Director

cc: Stephanie Washington (Mayor?s Of?ce)

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that DetrOit City Council hereby approves the sale
of certain real property at 450 W. Congress, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to 450 Associates LLC (?Purchaser?), a
Michigan limited liability company, for the purchase price of Eighteen Million Six Hundred Fifty
Thousand and 00/100 Dollars ($18,650,00000) (the ?Purchase Price?); and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Flaming and Development Department or his
authorized designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents as may
be necessary or convenient to effect the transfer of the Property to Purchaser consistent with this
resolution; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) One Million One Hundred Nineteen Thousand and 00/ 100 Dollars 
shall be paid to the DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Nine Hundred Thirty Two Thousand Five
Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars shall be paid to the real estate brokerage ?rm
from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to Two Thousand and 00/ 100 Dollars
shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that 20% of the net proceeds of the sale will be included in the reconciliation of the
Detroit Affordable Housing Development and Preservation Fund during the Fiscal Year 2020-
2021 budget development process; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Fiscal Year 2019-2020 Budget is amended for Appropriation 20507 
Capital Projects to accept such revenue and appropriate $13,000,000 for development projects and
Municipal Parking capital projects; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Pr0perty, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LEGAL DESCRIPTION
02000153.
CONGRESS LOTS 8 THRU 12 EXC TRIANG PT BG 4.92 FT ON LWE AND 
39.94 FT AT A ON LINE OF SD TRIANG PT BLK 12 MAP OF THE WESTERN ADDN
L7 P164 CITY RECORDS 2/68 ALSO TRIANG PT OF LOT 1 BG 12.08 FT ON 
LINE AND 98.06 FT AT A ON LINE OF SD TRIANG PT MILITARY RESERVE L5
P218 CITY RECORDS 2/58 28,988 SQ FT

02000154.

CONGRESS TRIANG PT OF 13 BG 4.92 FT ON LINE AND 39.94 FT AT A
ON LINE OF SD TRIANG PT BLK 12 MAP OF WESTERN ADD L7 P164 CITY
RECORDS 2/68 1 EXC TRIANG PT BG 1203 FT ON LINE AND 98.06 FT AT
A ON LINE OF SD TRIANG PT MILITARY RESERVE L5 P218 CITY RECORDS, 

2/58 39.92 X138

Street Address[es]: 450 W. Congress

{00005629}

 

"City of Detroit

COUNCILMAN scm?r R. BENSON

  

MEMORANDUM

TO: Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
FROM: Hon. Scott Benson, City Council District 3
CC: Hon. Janice Winfrey, City Clerk

David Whitaker, Director, LPD
Joel Howrani Heeres, Director, Of?ce of Sustainability
Stephanie Washington, City Council Liaison

VIA: Hon. Brenda Jones, City Council President

DATE: 1 May 2019
RE: BAN ON STYROFOAM PURCHASES WITH CITY FUNDS

Due to the negative impact on the environment and human health I am requesting your
of?ce provide a report on the process and feasibility of banning the purchase of
Styrofoam products with City of Detroit funds. This type of procurement policy supports
the existing Green Purchasing Ordinance:

Article V, Subdivision B. Sec. 18-5-14. - Policy encouraging purchase of
environmentally-preferable goods and services; preference for bidders offering
environmentally- preferable goods and services; criteria.

Please provide a response by 15 May 2019. If you have any questions do not hesitate to

contact my office at, 313-224-1198

SRB

Coleman A. Young Municipal Center - 2 Woodward Ave., Suite 1340 - Detroit, Michigan 48226
(313) 224-1198 Fax (313) 224-1684
bensons@detr0itmi.gov

