chc'vrab
6/ V/l?l

PLANNING AND
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STANDING
COMMITTEE

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

May 2, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division ?of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following flrm(s) or person(s):

6000757 100% Federal Funding AMEND 2 To Cover Increased Scope for
Parking Lot Reconstruction at 14628 14500 E. Jefferson. Contractor:
Jefferson East Business Association Location: 300 River Place Drive
Suite 5250, Detroit, MI 48207 Contract Period: Upon City Council
Approval through September 30, 2019 Contract Increase Amount:
$196,066.00 Total Contract Amount: $816,477.00. HOUSING AND

REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6000757 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated May 2, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT

May 2, 2019

HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6001437 100% Federal Funding AMEND 1 To Provide the Latin Americans for
Social and Economic Development (LASED) Funding for Property Rehab
at 4138 W. Vernor. (Time Extension Only) Contractor: LASED 
Location: 4138 W. Vernor, Detroit, MI 48209 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through February 28, 2021 Total Contract
Amount: $240,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Office of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6001437 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated May 2, 2019, be hereby and is approved.

LI

OFFICE OF CONTRACTING
AND PROCUREMENT
May 2, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL:

The Purchasing Division of the Finance Department recommends a Contract with the
following ?rm(s) or person(s):

6002072 100% City Funding To Provide Basement Repair Services on an As
Need Basis Not Exceeding the Contract Amount for the Bridging
Neighborhood Program. Contractor: Clark?s Construction Company 
Location: 18109 Livernois, Detroit, MI 48221 Contract Period: Upon
City Council Approval through March 14, 2021 Total Contract Amount:
$150,000.00. HOUSING AND REVITALIZATION

Respectfully submitted,

Boysie Jackson, Chief Procurement Of?cer
Of?ce of Contracting and Procurement

BY COUNCIL MEMBER TATE

RESOLVED, that Contract No. 6002072 referred to in the foregoing communication
dated May 2, 2019, be hereby and is approved.


David Whitaker, Esq. at?? at Etta [t iigChristopher Gulock, AICP

Director . Derrick Headd
Irvin Corley, Jr. CITY COUNCIL 1: Marcel Hurt, Esq.
Executive Policy Manager Kimani Jeffre
Marcell R. Todd, Jr. LEGISLATIVE POLICY DIVISION A . 
53?7"? Planner 208 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center aim anga"
Janese Chapman . . . '1 Jamie Murphy
Deputy Director Detr01t, MlchIgan 48226 .. Carolyn Nelson
Phone: (313) 224-4946 Fax: (313) 224-4336 Kim Newby
John Alexander Analine Powers, 
LaKisha Barclift, Esq. Jennifer Reinhardt
M. Rory Bolger, AICP Sabrina Shockley
Elizabeth Cabot, Esq. Thomas Stephens, Esq.
Tasha Cowen David Teeter
Richard Drumb Theresa Thomas
George Etheridge Underwood
Deborah Goldstein Ashley A. Wilson
May 1, 2019
HONORABLE CITY COUNCIL
RE: Community Benefits Ordinance process analysis for the Fiat 

Automotive (FCA) Development Project

BACKGROUND AND PROPOSAL

In November of 201 6, the Proposal ballot initiative passed with 53% of the vote, effectuating
the enactment of the City of Detroit?s Community Bene?ts Ordinance (CBO) Ordinance No. 35-
16. The expressed purpose of this ordinance is to garner ?outreach and engagement that
promotes transparency and accountability and ensures development projects in the City of
Detroit benefit and promote economic growth and prosperity for all residents. 

Section 14-12?3, subsection of the ordinance states that, ?the City Council shall appoint a
liaison from the Legislative Policy Division to monitor the community engagement process and
provide updates to the City Council. This report has been prepared by the Legislative Policy
Division (LPD) to provide an update as contemplated by the ordinance prior to Council?s
consideration of any ?nancial incentives associated with these developments.

The developer is seeking both an Industrial Facilities Abatement (PA 198 of 1974), and the
acquisition of City owned land valued over $1 million dollars for the purchase price of less than
fair market value without the bene?t of a competitive bid. In addition to the anticipated
investment amount of approximately $2.5 billion dollars, the sought after acquisition of publicly
held land, and PA 198 tax abatement qualify this proposed development as a Tier 1 development
project and triggers the CBO process. Sec. 14-12-2 of the Community Bene?ts Ordinance
de?nes a Tier 1 development project as follows:

?Tier 1 Development Project means a development project in the City that is expected to
incur the investment of Seventy-five Millions Dollars 75, 000, 000) or more during the

1

construction of facilities or to begin or expand operations or renovate structures where the
developer of the project is negotiating public support for investment in one or both of the
following forms.

(1) Any transfer to the developer ofCity-owned land parcels that have a cumulative
market value of One Million Dollars ($1,000, 000) or more (as determined by the City
Assessor or independent appraisal) without open bidding and priced below market
rates (where allowed by law) or

(2) Provision or approval by the City of tax abatements or other tax breaks that abate
more than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) of City taxes over the term of the
abatement that inure directly to the Development, but not including Neighborhood
Enterprise Zone tax abatements.

FCA in partnership with the City of Detroit is proposing the expansion of its Jefferson North
Assembly Plant located at 4000 St. Jean Street in the City of Detroit. It is anticipated that the
proposed expansion could generate approximately 5,000 new jobs. Concurrently, the City of
Detroit on behalf of the developer has sought the rezoning of 266 parcels along St. Jean Street
and from R2 (Two-family Residential District), R4 (Thoroughfare Residential District), and B4
(General Business District) respectively to M2 (Restricted Industrial District) to accommodate
the proposed expansion along with the vacation of St. Jean Street between E. Warren Avenue
and Kercheval Avenue.

At a special meeting of the City Planning Commission on Thursday, April 25, 2019, the
Commission voted to recommend approval of the City of Detroit Flaming Development
Department to amend Article XVII, District Maps 28 and 30, of the 1984 Detroit City Code
Chapter 61, ?Zoning? by showing an M2 zoning classi?cation where R2, R4 and B4 zoning
classi?cations currently exist on approximately two hundred sixty?six (266) parcels generally
bounded by East Warren Avenue to the north, St. Jean Avenue to the east, Kercheval Avenue to
the south and Lillibridge and Beniteau Avenues to the west.

The remainder of this report includes the analysis and conclusions of Council?s liaison?s report
for the proposed Fiat Assembly Plant expansion CBO process which concluded on
April 24, 2019. See details below:

COMMUNITY BENEFITS ORDINANCE PROJECT DETAILS
Proposed Development and Location:

Mack Avenue Engine Complex

The FCA Mack Engine Plant is located at 4000 St. Jean Street at the north-west corner of Mack
Avenue and St. Jean Street. The proposed expansion consists of the addition of general
assembly plant (converting the existing facility from an engine plant to an assembly plant for the
new model Jeep Grand Cherokee), paint shop, and body shop. The body shop is anticipated to
consist of an all new state-of-the-art facility to build vehicle frames in addition to new equipment
to robotically weld bodies for new SUV models. The facility is proposed to use advanced
manufacturing technology and processes to ensure products meet the highest quality standards.
The proposed paint shop is anticipated to be an all new multi-level paint shop, featuring

2

processes that are energy ef?cient and support environmental initiatives primarily low emissions
impact. The paint shop features include full emission control of major sources; water
conservation recycling; waste minimization. The new facility will be capable of producing 16
unique colors and focus on quality veri?cation stations to ensure paint quality standards are
achieved.

Jefferson North Assembly Plant

The Jefferson North Assembly Plant is located at the south-west comer of Mack Avenue and St.
Jean Street. The proposed expansion consists of the addition of a general assembly plant and
body shop. The proposed general assembly plant is where all of the parts come together,
resulting in a ?nished vehicle. The proposed development is anticipated to consist of an all new
world class manufacturing assembly area with operator-friendly workstations; maximized for
worker safety; with the developer is promoting as the most ef?cient operations; error mistake
proo?ng and quality veri?cation stations to ensure quality throughout the assembly process.
Additionally the newly expanded facility will include new full certi?cation line and end of line
validation equipment.

St. Jean Street Vacation

The current landscape of St. Jean Street is anticipated to be altered dramatically with the
proposed closure of St. Jean Street between E. Warren Avenue and Mack Avenue, and Mack
Avenue and Kercheval Avenue. Approximately 29 acres of newly zoned land will be created
with the zoning classi?cation of M2 (Restricted Industrial District). This section of St. Jean
Street in addition to the existing earthen berrns along St. Jean Street are being proposed for
employee and truck parking. The current parking areas will be utilized for the expanded
footprint of the assembly facilities.

Water Retention Pond (Beniteau)

This site is located near the intersection of Kercheval Avenue and Beniteau Avenue and
Lillibridge Avenue. The subject property is currently vacant and cleared of all residential
properties. FCA proposes development a multi acre stormwater retention pond to assist with
stormwater mitigation for the site. It is anticipated that the site will be landscaped and fenced
with a decorative ornamental style fencing as a barrier.

Current Zoning:

Mack Avenue Engine Plant/ Jefferson North Assembly Plant M4 Intensive Industrial
District. This district permits uses which are usually objectionable and, therefore, the district is
rarely, if ever, located adjacent to residential districts. A broad range of uses is permitted in this
district. New residences are prohibited with the exception of loft conversions of existing
buildings and of residential uses combined in structures with permitted commercial uses. These
requirements are to protect residences ?om an undesirable environment and to ensure reservation
of adequate areas for industrial development.

Beniteau Avenue R2 Two-family Residential District. The district is designed to protect and
enhance those areas developed or likely to develop with single- or two-family dwellings. The
district regulations are designed to promote a suitable environment for homes and for activities
connected with family life. The only principal uses permitted by right are single- and two?family
dwellings. Additional uses are conditional.

St. Jean Street R4 Thoroughfare Residential District. This district is designed to be used
primarily on major or secondary thoroughfares where the major use of the property is for low-
medium density residential dwellings characterized, primarily, by rental apartment dwellings.
Among others, uses permitted by right include multiple-family dwellings, single- and two-family
dwellings, and certain other residentially related uses which can function most advantageously
where located on these thoroughfares. Medical and dental clinics, motels or hotels, and certain
types of non-pro?t uses may be permitted on a conditional basis subject to appropriate ?ndings
and compliance with required standards.

St. Jean Street, cont. B4 The B4 General Business District provides for business and
commercial uses of a thoroughfare?oriented nature. In addition to these uses, other businesses,
which may bene?t by drawing part of their clientele from passing traf?c are permitted.
Additional uses, which may be successfully blended with permitted by?right uses, are
conditional.

Developer Representatives:

Ron Stallworth, Lead, Wayne County External Affairs; Roy Richie, Director, Employee
Relations; Mike Lackaye, Talent Acquisition; Ben Monacelli, Plant Facilities Engineering; Marc
Brazeau, Logistics; and Greg Rose, Environmental Health Safety.

Estimated Cost:
$2.5 billion which quali?es this project as a Tier 1 project.

Census Tract(s):
9852 in addition to portions of 5122 and 5143 to the north, 5123, 5129, 5162 to the east, 5137 to
the south, and 5136, 5139, and 5141 to the west.

Impact Area Boundaries:

The impact area, determined by the Flaming and Development Department, is de?ned as the
Edsel Ford Freeway/ 1-94, the alley between Newport Street and Lakewood Street, Avondale
Street, Conner Street, Clairpointe Street, the Detroit River, Marquette Drive, Jefferson Avenue,
McClellan Avenue, and Gratiot Avenue. The residential neighborhoods identi?ed as being in
the impact area are West End (West of the Mack Engine Plant), Chandler Park, and Riverbend.

CBO Facilitators:
Karen Gage, Flaming and Development Department (PDD)

Legislative Policy Division Liaison(s):
Marcell R. Todd, Jr., Dr. M. Rory Boldger and George Etheridge, LPD

Neighborhood Advisory Council (NAC):

Rhonda Theus Elected by Impact Area Residents

Michelle Jackson Elected by Impact Area Residents

Jerry King City Council President Brenda Jones Appointee

Juliette Okotie-Eboh - City Council Member ane? Ayres Appointee
Jay Henderson Council Member Andre Spivey Appointee

Darnell Gardner PDD Director Appointee

Henry Williams 4 PDD Director Appointee
Curtis Perry PDD Director Appointee
Thomas Hardiman PDD Director Appointee

Staff would note that no community elected alternate was chosen.
This report serves the following purposes:

1. Provides an update relative to the standing of the CBO process and to inform the City
Council as to what has transpired as a result of several meetings that have been held
throughout this process.

2. Provides the additional perspective of the legislative staff which may be considered
alongside the mandated PDD Director?s report submitted to Your Honorable Body for
review to complete the initial engagement phase of the CBO requirements.

3. The Legislative Policy Division respectfully offers recommendations to this
Honorable Body for potential areas of improvement in the CBO process based upon
observations and input during CBO proceedings.

CBO FIRST PUBLIC MEETING

The legally required public notice of the inaugural meeting (as required by Ordinance No. 35-16)
was mailed out to tax payers of record, occupants, and business owners within 300 radial feet of
the aforementioned impact area by the Planning and Development rather than the City Clerk?s as
speci?ed in the ordinance. Staff questions as to why the Flaming and Development Department
has not be utilizing the Clerk?s Of?ce for this task as speci?ed in the ordinance. Staff have been
informed that the Clerk?s Of?ce has only facilitated one (1) mass mailing for the CBO process
out of the nine (9) which have been undertaken. Per the PDD report the notice was sent to
approximately 10,000 residents within the impact area. According to signatures collected by
PDD, three-hundred seventy-?ve (375) assumed residents of the City of Detroit and the impact
area were recorded as having attended the ?rst meeting.

In addition, two supplemental NAC meetings, a total of nine meeting were held on Wednesday,
March 13, 2019; Thursday, March 14, 2019; Wednesday, March 20, 2019; Wednesday, March
27, 2019; Wednesday, April 3, 2019; Wednesday, April 10, 2019; Wednesday, April 17, 2019;
Monday, April 22, 2019; and Wednesday, April 24, 2019.

The ?rst public Fiat Automotive Projects Community Bene?ts Meeting was held on
Wednesday, March 13, 2019 ?om 6:30 to 8pm, UAW Local 7 Located at 2600 Conner St,
Detroit, MI, 48215. The Public Notice of the ?rst meeting was mailed out to approximately
10,000 residents within the Impact Area. The Impact Area includes Census Tract 9852, where
this project is located. Three-hundred seventy (3 00) people were recorded as attending the ?rst
meeting.

The Flaming and Development Department hosts a CBO website and

posted the Fiat Automotive Projects Community Bene?ts Meeting dates. The mailing
notice was also posted at this site. Notice was sent to the representatives of the City Council,

5

LPD, and the DON. In addition, all presentations and project materials are available to the
public on this website and on a Dropbox. The link is posted at and is as
follows: boxcom? sh/b 54m 1 (182 ??rm 
in?qux?rmmixvechwSa?dl=DPage 3 uf77

 

 

At the initial meeting, an overview of the process was given by Ms. Gage which consisted of a
detailed overview of the ordinance, purpose and role of the NAC, all of which were clearly and
expertly articulated. Of concern was the fact that the dates for the proposed NAC meetings had
been predetermined, as had a number of concerns and impacts regarding the proposed
development. LPD staff is of the opinion that, while the list of potential impacts as presented by
PDD may have been relevant, such comments, so early on appeared to direct the NAC towards a
certain conclusion in regards to what bene?ts and/or mitigating factors should be consideredl.

LPD staff is of the opinion that, while the ordinance only speci?cs one meeting as being required
between the NAC and the developer, that the NAC should have the authority and autonomy to
selected their own meeting dates and times.

It was clearly stated that the role of the NAC was to serve the greater community by representing
those in the impact area by engaging and negotiating with the administration and the developer
to garner meaningful mitigation of issues and concerns which may arise during the development
process, and not to angle or negotiate for fringe bene?ts for personal gain.

Arthur emison, Chief of Services and Infrastructure for the City of Detroit was in attendance at
the inaugural meeting of the CA CBO process as well as at all subsequent meetings, although
the CBO does not identify or recognize his role in the Community Bene?ts process. Mr.

emison, speaking on behalf of the administration, made some clarifying points, stating that the
NAC should consider other factors beyond mitigating factors associated with the proposed
developments. It was communicated by Mr. emison that there exists opportunities to realize
community bene?ts through the Strategic Neighborhood Core City Fund, the Affordable
Housing Leveraging Fund and Workforce Training and Development as well as made available
in the Ford CBO process which has been uplifted as a model for this process moving forward.

There were a number of concerns and considerations which were raised by members of the
public at the initial meeting, inclusive of but not limited to the following:
I The closure of St. Jean Avenue and the effects of increased traf?c on residential streets.
0 The effects of street closures on residents, churches, schools and local businesses.
0 Construction timeline.
- Air?quality/demolition.
I Employment opportunities.

A cursory overview was given of the proposed developments by Mr. Ron Stallworth o'f FCA.
The phasing and anticipated timelines, as well as impacts of the proposed development were
articulated and reviewed with as much detail as was available. A heavy focus was placed on

 

Sec. 14-12?3 states that the Enforcement Committee shall provide a biannual compliance report to the City
Council and the NAC for the time period identi?ed in the Community Bene?ts Provision. Staff is of the opinion that
this report should include updates on the impacts that the Closure of St. Jean Street has had on traf?c over time.
While a traf?c study has been conducted by the administration through a third party, the ?ndings of that report have
not been made widely available.

employment opportunities for residents of the impact area. Noticeably, very little was mentioned
in regards environmental impacts.

The timeline proposed for the NAC process associated with the FCA expansion project was
presented in a manner which stressed the 60 day timeline imposed by the developer in order to
garner support for the proposed expansion.

SELECTION OF THE NAC

At the initial CBO meeting held on Wednesday, March 13, 2019, approximately thirty-two (32)
residents of the impact area expressed an interest in serving on the FCA NAC. At the second
CBO process meeting which was held on Thursday March 14, 2019 another sizable amount of
residents ?om the impact area expressed an interest in serving on the NAC. Another overview of
the process and proposed developments was given, which in essence protracted the process.

LPD staff would note, that many of previous recommendations have been incorporated
into the CBO process in terms of presenting information about the process, role of the NAC,
documents germane to the review and negotiations, etc.

The second meeting had four primary objectives:

1) Re-introduce the CBO process and legislation (again, repetitive and not all together
necessary).

2) Re-present the various aspects of the project.

3) Conduct the public selection process for two NAC members to be selected by the
community present.

4) Announce the selection results for two community selected NAC members.

Residents living in the impact area, who were interested in being a part of the NAC, were
advised to nominate themselves to serve on the NAC. Each candidate was required to provide
two nominations never selecting the same person twice, nor nominating themselves twice. Each
nominee also presented the case for their candidacy to serve on the NAC. Nominees names were
collected and documented by PDD staff

Once all ballots were received from voting residents residing in the de?ned impact area, the
votes were tallied by PDD with members of Council staff, LPD, DON, and the Mayor?s of?ce
overseeing the nominee selection tally.

Attached please ?nd the PDD report which accurately details all of the NAC concerns and the
developer?s responses. In all there were a total of nine (9) community meetings held in regards
to this CBO process.

COMMUNITY BENEFITS

The FCA Neighborhood Advisory Council voted 8-1 in support for the commitments to
the CBO requests, dated April 25, 2019.

FCA has committed to making a signi?cant investment of over $2.5 billion dollars in the Mack
Avenue Engine Plant which is anticipated to bring 5,000 jobs to Detroit and revitalize the
immediate area. In addition to leveraging available incentives, it is anticipated that the proposed
expansion will generate millions of dollars of new tax revenue for the City of Detroit.

FCA has committed to invest in key programs that meet the needs of the residents in the impact
area such as the Strategic Neighborhood Core City Fund, the Affordable Housing Leveraging
Fund and Workforce Training and Development as detailed in CBO report. With an
initial commitment of approximately $27 million dollars, the funds proposed to be provided by
FCA are anticipated to leverage other available public and private resources for a total
investment of $35.2 million dollars according to the Duggan administration.

While the vast majority of the greater communities concerns were met via the proposed
community bene?ts package presented to Your Honorable Body by way of the PDD CBO report,
staff would note that there is one commercial entity located at the intersection of Mack Avenue
and St. Jean Street which expressed concerns over the impact that the closure of St. Jean Street
might have on their business. The proprietor of this business has spoken at every FCA CBO
public forum, as well as the three public meetings held by the City Flaming Commission in this
regard.

While this issue of concern does not appear in the PDD CBO report, staff has spoken with the
administration in this regard. The Duggan administration has indicated that they have met with
the interested party through the DPW Director, DEGC, as well as the Mayor himself, to address
their concerns and offer remediation. The administration has offered the proprietor up to
$300,000 in Green Grocer?s monies for additional signage and windows along the southern
portion of their property in an effort to help enhance and market their site, noting that no
identifying markers are visible to the south or north of the property.

In terms of points in ingress and egress, there is a proposed 200 ft section of St. Jean which is
anticipated to remain open to vehicular traf?c at Mack Avenue and St. Jean Street for the
purpose of allowing approximately 2,000 employees to access the new employee parking area. It
is anticipated that this intentional directing of traf?c will offset any residual effects the property
owner may experience from the closure of St. Jean Street.

ANALYSIS

CBO Timeline

Both the public and the NAC members raised concerns about the aggressive timeline in the CBO
process for the NAC to meet and produce recommendations for a list of community bene?ts.
However, there were considerations given to the NAC, as well as to the developer to allow for
additional time when needed.

CBO Process

Many of the observations stated in this section of the report are duplicative of those expressed in
previous LPD reports, such as those regarding the Detroit Pistons, Palace Sports and
Entertainment Corporate Headquarters and Practice Facility, Herman Kiefer Complex, Hudson
Site Transformative Brown?eld and OPRA redevelopment CBO process.

l. Extend the CBO meeting timeline
CBO development projects should be granted more time for a more extensive
engagement and negotiation process. The timeline as it stands does not have the
necessary amount of time built in for thoughtful requests or responses from either the
NAC or developer. The language in the CBC does state in pa . .the Planning Director
where possible shall submit the initial Community Bene?ts Report within six weeks from
the date the notice is sent of the public meeting.? While this language does allow for
some ?exibility, the six week timeline was ultimately adhered to in this case, in order to
present these items to the City Council prior to your consideration of the tax abatement
request.

2. Refine the process
There are portions of the ordinance that leave much to interpretation, such as if the
requests of the NAC should be limited to the remediation plan of the developer or
germane to employment opportunities for members of the community as a result of the
project. One interpretation has been that any bene?t conceived by the community is ?fair
play? and should be considered by the developer. Staff w0uld request Your Honorable
Body to further deliberate on the intent of the CBO in this respect. One sentiment that
was repeated time and time again during this process is that the role of the NAC does not
end with the issuance of the Community Bene?ts Report, however, should continue
through the course of the development. Is it the expectation of Council that the appointed
NAC members remain empaneled for the duration of the development or that a sunset
provision be added to the ordinance as it relates to the role of the 

3. When the NAC is considering their recommendations for community bene?ts there
appears to be a con?ation between the amount of the requested abatement and the dollar
amount associated with their requests. The ordinance is currently silent on this matter.
The manner in which this current process has played out has resulting in the NAC
attempting to request a percentage of the developers ?ask? and having that be the basis
for their bene?ts request.

4. If the Department of Neighborhoods (DON) or the Chief of Services and Infrastructure of
the City of Detroit is to play a vital role in the CBO moving forward, then their role needs
to be de?ned and codi?ed in the Ordinance.

5. vary from project to project in terms of composition and utility. In the case of the
FCA CBO process, the NAC ultimately opted to select a chair to facilitate the meetings
and move the NAC towards their ultimate recommendations. In other CBO processes,
there was no clear or de?ned chair, and the administration served more of a role in
guiding the discussion for the NAC, rather than the NAC. Staff is of the opinion that the
NAC selection process should be amended so a chairperson is identi?ed for the NAC in
order to ensure that there is no undue in?uence from non-NAC or impact area third
parties. This is a recommendation which has been supported by the CBO working group
for inclusion in the CBO rewrite which is currently pending.

CONCLUSION
FCA has submitted their commitments in regards to the FCA CBO process, which are being
incorporated into a development agreement between the developer and the administration. This

9

report has been submitted in an effort to aid Your Honorable Body in your deliberations ahead of
your ongoing deliberations.

Should you have any additional questions in this regard, please contact the offices of the
Legislative Policy Division directly. 

    

id Whitaker, Esq., Director, Legislative Policy Division
George Etheridge, City Planner

Attachments

Cc:
Arthur emison, Chief of Services and Infrastructure
Maurice Cox, Director, PDD
David Bell, Director, BSEED
Lawrence Garcia, Corp. Counsel, Law Department
Matt Walters, JET
Hon. Mike Duggan, Mayor?s Of?ce

10

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (3l3) 224-1310

PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

   
 

April 24, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
7387 Wheeler, Detroit, MI 48210

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Planning and Development Department has received an offer from
Ragie Yehia (the ?Purchaser?) to purchase certain City-owned real property at 7387 Wheeler,
Detroit, MI (the ?Property?). The entered into a purchase agreement, dated April 3, 2019,
with the purchaser. Under the terms of the proposed Purchase Agreement, the property will be
conveyed to the purchaser for the purchase price of Three Thousand Three Hundred and 00/100

Dollars 

Previously, the structure located on the property functioned as a convenience store and residential
units. The purchaser proposes to rehabilitate the structure and return it to its previous mixed use.
Currently, the property is within an R2 zoning district (Two-Family Residential District). The
purchaser?s proposed use of the property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the
property is zoned. The property shall be transferred subject to a reverter interest, requiring the
purchaser to clean and secure the property within six months (6), and obtain a Certi?cate of
Occupancy for all structures on the property within eighteen (18) months.

We request that your Honorable Body adept the attached resolution to authorize the Director of
to execute a deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient to effect a
transfer of the property by the City to Ragie Yehia.

Respectfully submitted,


{42% --

   

Maurice D. Cox
Director

Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 7387 Wheeler, Detroit, MI (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Ragie Yehia (the ?Purchaser?) for the
purchase price of Three Thousand Three Hundred and 00/ 1 00 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Property to the Purchaser consistent with this resolution; and

be it further

RESOLVED, the Property shall be transferred subject to a reverter interest, requiring the
Purchaser to, within six (6) months of closing, clean and secure the Property, and within eighteen
(18) months of closing, obtain a Certi?cate of Occupancy for all structures on the Property; and

be it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) One Hundred Ninety Eight and 00/100 Dollars ($198.00) shall be paid to the DBA
from the sale proceeds, 2) One Hundred Sixty Five and 00/ 100 Dollars ($165.00) shall be paid to
the real estate brokerage ?rm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up to
Two Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Properties, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered con?rmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)


LEGAL DESCRIPTION
Property situated in the City of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, described as follows:

WHEELER LOT 317 WM HOLMES FRANK A VERNORS SUB L16 P73 PLATS, 
18/366 30 IRREG

a/k/a 7387 Wheeler
Tax Parcel ID 18003967

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

By:

 

Basil Sarim, P.S.
Professional Surveyor
City of Detroit/DPW, CED

COLEMAN A. YOUNG MUNICIPAL CENTER
2 WOODWARD AVENUE SUITE 808
DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

(313) 224-1339 - 

CITY OF DETROIT (313) 224?1310
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

April 24, 2019

Detroit City Council
1340 Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
Detroit, MI 48226

RE: Property Sale
18291 Livernois, Detroit, MI 48221

Honorable City Council:

The City of Detroit, Flaming and Development Department has received an offer from
Levi Peoples (the ?Purchaser?), to purchase certain City-owned real property at 18291 Livernois
(the ?Property?) for the purchase price of Fifteen Thousand Two Hundred and 00/100 Dollars
The property consists of a small commercial building comprised of 1346 square
feet situated on approximately 1460 square feet of land and zoned B2 (Local Business and

Residential).

The Purchaser previously purchased the Property in November 2015 from a private entity and
renovated the building. Property tax payments were missed, however, resulting in foreclosure
action by Wayne County and the subsequent acquisition of the property by the City. The Purchaser
wishes to re-purchase the property to continue its operation as a natural hair care business. The
proposed use Of the Property shall be consistent with the allowable uses for which the Property is

zoned.

We, therefore, request that your Honorable Body adopt the attached resolution to authorize the
Director of to execute a deed and such other documents as may be necessary or convenient
to effect a transfer of the Property by the City to Levi PeOples for the amount of $15,200,
representing an approximation of the total amount of taxes that would have been paid to date plus

associated fees and costs.

Respectfully submitted, 

Wga% .
Maunce D. Cox 
[Director

:r


 

ricc: Stephanie Washington, Mayor?s Of?ce

RESOLUTION

BY COUNCIL MEMBER

 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Detroit City Council hereby approves of the
sale of certain real property at 18291 Livernois, Detroit, M1 (the ?Property?), as more particularly
described in the attached Exhibit A incorporated herein, to Levi Peoples, for the purchase price of
Fifteen Thousand Two Hundred Fifty and 00/100 Dollars and be it further

RESOLVED, that the Director of the Planning and Development Department, or his authorized
designee, is authorized to execute a quit claim deed and such other documents necessary or
convenient to effect transfer of the Property to Levi Peoples consistent with this resolution; and be

it further

RESOLVED, that the following Property Sales Services Fees be paid from the sale proceeds
pursuant to the City?s Property Management Agreement with the Detroit Building Authority
1) Two Thousand Five Hundred and 00/ 100 Dollars (2,500.00) shall be paid to the
DBA from the sale proceeds, 2) Seven Hundred Sixty and 00/ 100 Dollars ($760.00) shall be paid
to the real estate brokerage firm from the sale proceeds and 3) customary closing costs up
to Two Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($200.00) shall be paid from the sale proceeds; and be it

further

RESOLVED, that the Director, or his authorized designee, is authorized to execute any
required instruments to make and incorporate technical amendments or changes to the quit claim
deed (including but not limited to corrections to or con?rmations of legal descriptions, or timing
of tender of possession of particular parcels) in the event that changes are required to correct minor
inaccuracies or are required due to unforeseen circumstances or technical matters that may arise
prior to the conveyance of the Property, provided that the changes do not materially alter the
substance or terms of the transfer and sale; and be it ?nally

RESOLVED, that the quit claim deed will be considered confirmed when executed by the 
Director, or his authorized designee, and approved by the Corporation Counsel as to form.

(See Attached Exhibit A)

EXHIBIT A

LIVERNOIS LOT 345 EXC LIVERNOIS AVE AS WD CANTERBURY GARDEN NO 1 L37 P66
PLATS, 16/292 20 73.27A

18291 LIVERNOIS 59/4

Ward 16 ITEM 017654

Description Correct
Engineer of Surveys

.. .f 'j


