37/7

TESTIMONIAL

RESOLUTIONS

AND SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL



Bishop Phillip Aquilla Brooks

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

RESOLVED,

?Celebrating 66 Years as Pastor and Founder?

Bishop P.A. Brooks founded New St. Paul Tabernacle Church Of God In Christ (COGIC) in 1953. From humble
beginnings, the ministry has grown to an impressive record of accomplishments and service to God and the community.
A devoted family man, Bishop Brooks and his lovely wife, Missionary Doris Brooks have been married since 1952.
They are the parents of two children; daughter, Evangelist aithe Brooks and son, Minister Phillip Brooks 11. Bishop and
Mrs. Brooks are the proud grandparents of two granddaughters, Candace and Katrina, and one grandson, Phillip ll I and

Bishop Brooks faith, obedience and commitment to the Word of God is the foundation for his service within the
Kingdom of God. These basic characteristics are the driving force behind his love for the COGIC and for the community
at large. In the late 1960?s, then Elder Brooks founded and hosted the March of Faith radio broadcast. He proclaimed
the Word of God every Sunday morning over the airwaves. In 1975, he was appointed Jurisdictional Prelate of the
Historic First Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction of Michigan, commonly known as, the Northeast Michigan Jurisdiction. That
same year, he established the March of Faith television broadcast. Bishop Brooks was the ?rst African American pastor
to broadcast on television in Detroit. The broadcast aired on WGPR Channel 62, which was the ?rst Black-owned
television station in the country. The March of Faith Broadcast Ministry continues today, both on radio and television;
and

Bishop Brooks expanded his local ministry into a variety of community outreach programs. He founded the Grandmont-
Rosedale Christian Day School, for grades through 8 and the New St. Paul Tabernacle Headstart Agency, which
became the model for headstart programs in the City of Detroit, with 11 af?liated centers. Bishop Brooks also
established the New St. Paul Non-Pro?t Housing Corporation, which built the Faith Manor Senior Apartments on the
campus of New St. Paul Tabernacle; and

During his ministerial career, Bishop Brooks has forged a path which distinguishes him as one of the most respected
leaders in the COGIC. His vision has helped transform the church, while at the same time, upholding COGIC traditions.
Bishop Brooks is continually working for the strength and credibility of the COGIC, both regionally and nationally. As
part of his duties on the General Board, Bishop Brooks has been called upon to serve as Interim Bishop in at least 11
different states (Michigan, New York, Ohio, Kansas, Oklahoma, Nebraska. Missouri, Florida. Massachusetts,
and He also serves as Dean of the COGIC Episcopal Academy, teaching classes for newly installed
Bishops each October at All Saints College in Memphis, Tennessee. In 2007, Bishop Brooks was elected Second
Assistant Presiding Bishop of the COGIC. In 2009, under Presiding Bishop Charles E. Blake Sr., he was elevated to First
Assistant Presiding Bishop, an of?ce through which he continues to serve the church today. Bishop Phillip Aquilla
Brooks is a notable leader for our time and a man of great spiritual depth, faith, obedience and commitment.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and of?ce of Council President Brenda Jones, joins with friends and members to
congratulate Bishop Phillip Aquilla Brooks on this momentous occasion, celebrating 66 Years as the Founder
and Pastor of New St. Paul Tabernacle Church Of God In Christ.



 

/%lv I I COUNCIL PR 53% 

 


Audi,? 

i Nn?lm I, -
i .-

sou?, IL MEMBER 
A Alum Lu 
o- . - I cou ILMEMBEH i?

 

COUNCIL 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

April 28, 201

DATE

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

 

co I - IL MEMBER





DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

Bro. A. Reginald Best, Jr.

10thl Pastoral Anniversary
Elmwood Park Church of Christ

Bro. A. Reginald Best, Jr., has been the Senior Minister of Elmwood Park Church of Christ since
November 2008. Before coming to the Elmwood Park Church of Christ. he was blessed to serve
and train within the ranks of other area congregations known for their deep spiritual roots. He has a
tremendous passion for God's word, coupled with a love of God?s people. Bro. Best has a spirit of
generosity that flows through every facet of his ministry; and

A native of Detroit. Michigan. he began his religious studies at Michigan Christian College in
Rochester, Michigan, and later went on to earn a Bachelor of Arts in  ndustriallOrganizational
and Master of Arts in Education. both from Wayne State University. Bro. Best is a
former teacher and administrator with Detroit Public Schools. and has also held positions at several
major universities. He is actively involved with the Detroit Police Department as a Chaplain, and
seNes on the Board of Director?s for Michigan Christian Youth Camp. in Lapeer, Michigan; and

Bro. A. Reginald Best, Jr., has overseen a number of programs that connect the church with the
community. He recently adopted the Leroy Dues Park. adjacent to the church, and has led a
community effort to maintain, clean and beautify the park. Bro. Best has hosted a community forum
on ?Crisis Among Black Males". DTE Energy Forum to assist those who are struggling with energy
bill payments. the Youth Development Commission Employment fairs for Detroit youth and Make the
Move to Improve Basketball program for boys and girls ages 7-18; with plans to start a summer
softball league. tennis and basketball camp for youth in the near future; and

Bro. A. Reginald Best, Jr., believes that the church is the vehicle of change. and it is our
responsibility to improve conditions in our community by holding firmly to Matthew 28:10 ?Go ye
therefore and teach all nations". Bro. Best loves God with his whole heart and enjoys attending and
participating in fruitful Christian works and activities. He humbly embraces the profound truth that he
is nothing without almighty God and is especially thankful to God for Elmwood Park Church of
Christ. his family and his true friends in the Gospel. NOW, THEREFORE BE IT

That the Detroit City Council and Office of Council President Brenda Jones, along with
Elmwood Park Church of Christ. family and friends would like to take this time to extend

Congratulations to Bro. A. Reginald Best Jr., on this wonderful occasion. May God continue to
bless you in abundance!

MW

RESIDENT
I 
I a 4. . A Ag?j' 

COUNCIL MEM 


B, 
.- .. i 45' 4mm
ifMayj?. 2 9
DATE

 

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

WHEREAS

RESOLVED

  

DETROIT CITY COUNCIL

Adam/5mm; ?dalaczwz

St. Phillips Missionary Baptist Church
?50 Years of Service?

In the year of 1969 Reverend Theron Hodges, Sr. conducted devotional services for his young, newly

formed congregation. In May of that same year a dream became a reality when St. Phillips Missionary Baptist
Church officially registered with the State of Michigan and stands Open to this day after 50 years of service;
and

During that time, under the leadership of the Reverend Theron Hodges, St. Phillips grew and
installed 92 members, including 1 Deacon, 1 Trustee, and 19 Auxiliaries; and

In the year 1972, the congregation was able to purchase the church and in two short years extended and
modernized it, including the auditorium, to allow a seating capacity of250 members. By 1975 the exterior
portion of the Church was modernized and in January 1976, as membership continued to grow, the
auditorium was again expanded to accommodate 350 members and the creation of the Church?s beautiful a
and elegant modern day sanctuary; and

In 1979, more blessings came to the Church through Mr. and Mrs. O.B. House. Property was donated to
provide a parking lot. Then in August of 1979 a larger parking lot was obtained. That same year, two
adjoining buildings were purchased and through many hours oflaboring those buildings were converted into
a fellowship hall. By November of that following year, St. Phillips began a renovation of

the interior part of the Church. By May of 1981 the members of St. Phillips returned to celebrate and
worship; and

St. Phillips Missionary Baptist Church continued to grow and the need for expansion arose again. In

October of 1986, ground was broken to initiate the expansion. The auditorium was enlarged to allow for the
seating capacity of 600 members. In 1987 a food pantry was begun to support homeless citizens.

From 1995 until present day, St. Philips had several more successful resolutions. In 2003, the congregation
came under the leadership of Pastor Reverend Alvin D. Hodges Sr. Under his leadership 25 new deacons and
2 ministers have been ordained, a Youth Department has been created. THEREFORE, LET IT BE RESOLVED

That the Councilman Roy McCalister, Jr, and the Detroit City Council Members, do hereby commend St.
Phillips Missionary Baptist Church for 50 years of outstanding service and dedication to the people of
the City of Detroit. May God continue to bless St. Phillips', by sending lost sheep from out of the

wilderness, that they will find salvation within their sacred doors. GOD BE THE 

  
 
 
    
 
 

r? int-i. 
COUNCIL P-SIDENT . ?allWIDE COUNCIL - I lg?
1 Ar 

Hull 

com mee- .. IBEFI 

I) ?1
co NCIL MBER . INCMIEMBER
April 30 2019 - 
ill?ii ?1119 DATE

