th
April 10
, 2019. Chicago Transit Board Regular Meeting Minutes.

Noticed for 10:00 AM: Commenced at 10:15 AM.

AGENDA: The posted agenda for the meeting is available at www.transitchicago.com
, “Chicago Transit
Board”, “Meeting Notices, Agendas, and Minutes”, (4/10/2019)(Regular Board Meeting),”Agenda”.
ROLL CALL: Directors Terry Peterson (Chairman), Arabel Alva Rosales (Vice-Chairman), Andre
Youngblood, Kevin Irvine. Absent were directors Patterson, Miller, and Silva
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
PRESIDENT’S REPORT: President Carter presented the President’s Report.

MINUTES: Chairman Peterson next asked for a motion to approve the regular board meeting minu
th
March 13
, 2019. The motion was moved, seconded, and approved with four yes votes.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: The Board recessed into Executive Session, pursuant to the Open Meetings

Upon re-convening from executive session, the Board took up the three executive session agenda

Chairman Peterson first asked for consideration of two items discussed in executive sessio
Agenda Item # 5-A, an ordinance authorizing execution of a collective bargaining agreement cont
the terms of a tentative agreement with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local
Board Agenda Item # 5-B, an ordinance authorizing execution of a collective bargaining a
containing the terms of a tentative agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Wor
Local 134. After a brief presentation on these matters by General Counsel Karen Seimetz
Peterson called for two separate motions to approve each ordinance, each motion was sec
individually, and each motion was approved separately, with four yes votes.

Chairman Peterson then asked for consideration of Board Agenda Item # 5-C, a Section 28 hearing
recommendation regarding Kermitt E. Collins. After a brief presentation by General Couns
Seimetz, Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve an ordinance sustaining the di
Kermitt E. Collins. After the motion was moved and seconded, the motion was approved with four
votes.

COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC PLANNING AND SERVICE DELIVERY. Committee Chairman Kevin
presented the report. The committee heard presentations on the Halsted Street Bus-Bike
project and the City of Chicago New Transportation and Mobility Task Force Report. Direc
concluded his report.

COMMITTEE ON FINANCE, AUDIT, AND BUDGET: Committee Vice-Chairman Kevin Irvine presented
th
report. The committee reviewed the monthly (April) report on Finance, and approved
, the March 1
2019 committee meeting minutes. Mr. Irvine also stated that all other Committee agenda items,
on the CommitteeAgenda,were presented,reviewed,discussed,
placedon the omnibus,and
recommended for Board approval. Mr. Irvine concluded his report.

 Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to approve the omnibus as stated by Director Irvine. After
moved and seconded, the motion was approved with four yes votes.
All approved April 2019 Board ordinances are available on-line, www.transitchicago.com
. “Chicago
Transit Board”, “Board Ordinances”, Ordinance Numbers 019-28 through 019-37.

CONSTRUCTION REPORT: Chief Infrastructure Officer Bill Mooney presented the Construction Repo
The report is available on-line at www.transitchicago.com
,“Chicago Transit Board”, “Presentations made
to the Chicago Transit Board”, (April 2019), “Construction Report”.
NEW BUSINESS: None
th
MOTION TO ADJOURN: Chairman Peterson asked for a motion to adjourn
, 2019
the April
Chicago
10
Transit Board meeting. That motion was moved and approved by unanimous voice vote.

 