The Chicago Park District’s Board Meeting Information Center provides online access to Chicago Park District’s records
between 2013 and present. Past Journals of Proceedings may also be accessed from 1933 until present. Here you can
search for and browse:

The Chicago Park District provides several ways for the public to stay in communication with the District and be informed
of upcoming projects, legislative action, meetings, park namings, code amendments and more. The Board of
Commissioners, District Executives and staff remain dedicated in its efforts to offer tools of communication for members
of the public to connect with it regarding specific initiatives, exchange ideas and discuss important issues. Have an Issue
or Idea? Click here to voice them. Interested in Capital Projects? Click here to view current and ongoing projects.

Browse the District’s Meeting Calendar, posted agendas, and videos. Click here to view current calendar dates and
agendas. A Meeting record will contain the date, time and location of the meeting for the year, a list of all proposed
items being considered by the Board of Commissioners, the notice, agenda and the meeting minutes. (Please click the
Meeting Calendar tab above to browse calendar)

Those interested in addressing the Board of Commissioners may do so by signing up to speak through our dedicated email at
signuptospeak@chicagoparkdistrict.com . Members of the public will have the opportunity to address the Board and have their
concerns heard during the “People in the Parks,” section of the meeting. The Chicago Park District has allotted 30 minutes for
speakers to address the Board of Commissioners. Those unable to speak due to the time limit may address their concerns to
the Board in writing. Sign-up is on a first come first serve basis and opens Friday morning before the meeting and closes at 4PM
Monday before the meeting. You may also upload materials you wish to submit to the Board . Do not have an email? Sign up
via telephone at (312) 742-4299. Sign-up is open to the public and must be received no later than 4:00 PM on the Monday
prior to the meeting. In-person sign-up will take place the Monday before the Meeting from 1:00-4:00 PM on the 3rdfloor at
the Administration Building at 541 N. Fairbanks Court. Those addressing the Board are limited to 2 minutes. Click here to read
our public participation rules.

 View the Board Meetings online by clicking on the video link found on the meeting calendar page. Meetings may be
viewed while in progress or at a later time. Meetings for the current year are also available on the Chicago Park District
website. Past videos may be accessed on YouTube. (Please click the Video link above to view live/current Board Meetings
for the year or click here to view past meetings on YouTube)

Search agendas, proposed and approved Items, resolutions, ordinances and Minority and Women Owned Participation
information presented before the Board of Commissioners. Legislative records contain detailed information including
action taken, passage/ failure status, and full text of the legislation. (Please click the Legislative tab above to browse
Legislative Records).

Requests to name or rename parks and features within parks (including buildings and facilities within parks) may be
found by clicking on Park Namings. There you can view which parks are in the 45-Day Notice Period and submit
comments as well as upload supporting documents. Your public input is greatly appreciated and will be reviewed by
the Board. Please click here to view the Park District’s policy for park namings. (Please click the Park Naming link
above to view current and past proposed Park Namings.) Please click here to view Park Naming Procedures

The Chicago Park District reviews the code on a rolling basis to ensure that all updates are reflected accurately.
Recommendations for amendments to the Code of the Chicago Park District are submitted before the board for approval to
initiate a 45-day notice process. The proposed recommendations are then, placed on the Chicago Park District website for the
purposes of soliciting public input. Once the 45-day notice period has passed and all comments have been received, the
proposed recommended amendments will be submitted to the board for final approval and published to the Chicago Park
District Website. Please click here to view proposed amendment policy. (Please click the Chicago Park District Code
Amendments link above to view current and past amendments.)

 