MINUTES
Belle Isle Park Advisory Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday April 18th, 2019
Location: Belle Isle Nature Center
Meeting called to order at 9:01 a.m.
EXCUSED ABSENCES
Quorum established
Bryan Barnhill
Rev. Lonnie Peek
Bud Denker
Motioned by: Brad Dick
Seconded by: Michael Curis
PRESENT FOR BIPAC
Chair Michele Hodges
Michael Curis
Sommer Woods
Brad Dick
DNR STAFF PRESENT
Ron Olson
Scott Pratt
Karis Floyd
Jacob Brown
Darlisa Rickman
REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to Approve Minutes for March 21st , 2018
Motioned by: Michael Curis
Seconded by: Sommer Woods

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 18, 2019
1

 General Updates
Ron Olson, Chief, PRD
• Toured with visitors from other states that have urban park centers and exchanged ideas.
• Met with Summer Youth Employment groups and some non-profits.
• Looking forward to the State Park Centennial.
• Pure Michigan in May will be bringing musical artists to the OAC and play thematic music
in support of the State Park Centennial Celebration.
• DTE Energy is currently on the island adding the new electric transmission system to the
island. This is necessary to continue powering the island.
• The first phase of the conservatory construction will be done soon.
• There will be parking passes issued during the Grand Prix so park guests will still have
access to the east end of the island even during the races. We are still working out the details
of this process.
DNR Law Enforcement Update
Lt. Jennifer Johnson, MSP
Sgt. Jason Becker, DNR
• Higher attendance as the weather is warming up
• Operations as normal
• Regular full-time shifts on the island now
Park Operations Update
Karis Floyd, PRD
Jacob Brown, PRD
• Buildings are reopening for the busy season.
• Doing maintenance on equipment to prepare for park maintenance.
• In the process of hiring and hoping to get positions filled.
• Have hired an outdoor Explorer for Belle Isle Park.
• Are transitioning to a statewide contract with Waste Management and Farrow will no longer
be providing trash pick-up services as of May 14th, 2019.
• Met with MDOT last Friday so you will see some signs being put up around the island and
some potholes being filled.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 18, 2019
2

 Outreach and Upcoming Events
Darlisa Rickman
• Planning through 2020 at this point.
• All Saturdays have been booked currently.
• Making sure that all events are running smoothly.
• Had a meeting with the Food Concessionaire and he plans to start providing food
opportunities May 1st.
• Food Court area will soon be open, and the plan is to have 4 to 5 trucks available at Shelter
7 for the park guests dining convenience. There will also still be other various food trucks
located at convenient spots around the park.
• The Grand Prix Team will begin their load in April 22nd at midnight.
• Spring Clean-up is Saturday April 27th.
• Spring Into Nature 5k held Saturday April 27th 7 a.m. – 11 a.m.; the proceeds benefit the
Aquarium.
• Koi Festival Saturday May 4th 12 p.m. – 4 p.m.
• Riverside Kayak Demo Saturday May 11th at the Beach.
• Metal Detecting Event Sunday May 19th at the Beach.
• The Grand Prix weekend kicks off May 29th.
• Sign up for the Belle Isle Beat to get more park information on events around the island.
Sommer Woods: Is that food opportunity for existing vendors or new vendors?
Darlisa Rickman: This is for our current vendor that is currently stationed at the concession
stand on kids’ row. He is now expanding to the area at Shelter 7 so the folks visiting the
Conservatory and the Aquarium can be accommodated.
Michael Curis: How many of your events are reoccurring every year?
Darlisa Rickman: I can’t give you an exact number but between the walks, runs, drum circles
and numerous other events many are repeat guests. But in addition to that we find that we have
many family reunions that are coming back every year.
Belle Isle Conservancy Update
Chair Michelle Hodges
• Met the new DNR Director Dan Eichinger.
• Visited and walked through the new Belle Isle Administrative Office at the IA building.
• Attended the Daffodil Luncheon April 17th.
• Boat House planning status - about to hire a consultant, in collaboration with the DNR and
Detroit Rowing Club, for master planning.
• Balboa Park team visited.
• Hiring a volunteer coordinator, Aquarist, Education Specialist and an Events Associate.
• Qualified as a Finalist for the Impact 100 Program.
• A finalist in the Play Everywhere Competition which involves doing some build out of the
grassy area next to the Aquarium.
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 18, 2019
3

 •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

April 27th is the Spring Clean Up.
Keep Belle Isle Beautiful Initiative will take place on May 18th and June 29th.
Koi Festival May 4th.
The Grand Prixmiere May 31st.
Deeper Dive is June 27th featuring the Cuban Gar.
Metro Detroit Youth Day July 10th.
Kite fest July 14th.
Polish the Jewel October 10th.

Sommer Woods: In regard to Metro Detroit Youth Day if anyone knows someone that is a
senior in high school, they issue scholarships. They have the application online for anyone that
has an interest.
Presentation
Kamilah Scott, DTE – Update on New Electric Service for Belle Isle Park
Explained the general reason for DTE’s continued presence on Belle Isle which is to update the
dated electrical infrastructure on the island. The plan is for December of 2019 through October
of 2020 to convert every location on the island to DTE power.
Ron Olson: Can the boxes placed around the island be painted or customized?
Kamilah Scott: Yes, they can. They often do that, especially the ones on college campuses.
Michele Hodges: With his update to the infrastructure does this mean that all locations will be
metered?
Kamilah Scott: For the most part yes, aside from a few locations that will remain what we call
subservice due to the distance and the impact the locations have on the island.
PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 minutes each)
Michael Betzold

Ironic that Monday is Earth Day and that is the day that the Grand Prix
begins its set-up. Park users don’t have even one seat on the committee
to represent the park guests’ interests. The public has NO role in the
“Public-Private Partnership” that runs Belle Isle.

Zaher Abuelrooj

Had an issue gaining access to the parking lot down across from
Milliken Park for the new early boat mooring for fishing. Would like to
inquire about the 2020 April 1st-May 1st slip rental season for Walleye
Fishermen. Would also like an update on the possibility of DNR
putting a launch on the Detroit River.

Ron Olson

The new Milliken State Park and Harbor plan to open the Harbor early
was a pilot and some of the issues you pointed out will have to be
BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 18, 2019
4

 addressed to make things more accommodating. That’s a big part of the
study is to try to diversify access to the Detroit river because opening
just one site is not going to solve the overall problem.
Angela Lugo-Thomas Please remember that you have a responsibility to not just the wealthy
donors, who give money to Belle Isle but also to park users like me,
that see Belle Isle as a place for rest and relaxation. A place to get
away from the hustle and bustle of the city. It appears that if our
concerns are against your personal beliefs or your pocketbook, they are
never taken into consideration. Is there a different meeting that we
should attend where the people in leadership will listen to our
concerns?
Michelle Hodges:

This is a very appropriate opportunity for the public to come and be
heard and it has impacted the decisions made on the island and for the
island, and hopefully how things have been adjusted and changed so
that the park user is always at the top of the list of concerns.

Lawrence Mohammed Would like to know if there going to be more than one Kayak Launch.
Response from Amanda Treadwell: There will be 3 but currently we
are only moving one.
Royce from Canada:

Are there any approved events like Native ceremonies performed on the
park such as sweat lodges?
Response from Darlisa Rickman: No there have never been any
events similar to that here on the park that I’m aware of.

Rick DeMayo:

Volunteer for the Grand Prix feels that the Grand Prix brings the
community together and they definitely respect the environment.
Wants to assure everyone that they will do everything to protect the
landscape and the structures utilized by the Grand Prix.

Unknown:

Will DTE provide steam on the island?
Response from DTE: No, we are no longer in the steam business a
different entity took that over.

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 18, 2019
5

 COMMITTEE MEMBER ITEMS
Michael Curis:

We want to assure the public that you are heard, whether it is pro or con
for the Grand Prix. Unfortunately, we are in the unenviable position of
having to make a decision knowing that we can’t please everybody.
The voices concerning this matter are very strong and sensible, but we
must make a decision about what is best for the island over a long
period. We hope that the adjustments that we are making, overseeing
and continue to suggest appeasing a little bit of the opposition. At this
point we want to still be respectful and respectfully disagree, but we do
hear you and thank you for coming.

Motion to Adjourn: No Quorum
Moved by:
Seconded by:
Meeting Concluded: 10:23 a.m.
NEXT REGULAR MEETING:
May 16, 2019
Nature Center
Belle Isle Park
Detroit, MI 48207
9:00 a.m. – 11:00 am.

Approved: ___________________________
Michele Hodges

______________________________
Ronald A. Olson, Chief

Date: ______________________________

BELLE ISLE PARK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
MINUTES – April 18, 2019
6

 