AGENDA

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS
STAFF REPORT 5-8-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6188
ADDRESS: 3977 SECOND
APPLICANT: ZHAIN MIKO
HISTORIC DISTRICT: WILLIS SELDEN/CAMPBELL SYMINGTON
PROPOSAL
The building at 3977 Second Avenue was designed by local architectural firm Donaldson and Meier and was
erected in 1882. As per the Detroit Historic Designation Advisory Board Designation (HDAB) Report for the
Campbell Symington House:
The home represents well a very substantial dwelling of the early 1880s; particularly noteworthy is the use of redvein sandstone for the exterior walls, an expense not ordinary for a house of this size. Two and one-half stories
high, the building is covered with a hip roof with dormers and a subsidiary gable over the left side of the façade.
The windows on the first floor of the house are rectangular with carved trim above; on the second floor most of the
windows have semi-circular arched tops, again with trim caved into the stonework. The main façade is divided into
three sections. Two bays, on either side, flank a shallow recess in the center; the left bay extends further towards
the street then the right. The main entrance is located in the shallow center bay and is reached by means of a large
front porch of wood. The right-hand bay has paired windows at the first and second floor and the roof above this
bay contains a dormer with a pair of double-hung windows echoing the pairs of windows below. A smaller dormer
with a single window is placed above the recessed center of the façade. On the left, a bay window is surmounted by
the gable which is supported on very large, curved brackets at the second floor level. The gable contains a pair of
double-hung windows. The side of the house facing Alexandrine is characterized by similar wall surfaces and
window treatments to those on the front of the house. Almost half way down the length of the house a rectangular
bay extends slightly from the side and is surmounted by a dormer.

Also, note that the rear elevation includes an historic-age small wood porch with includes wood columns and a
flat roof with dentil detailing.
As per the attached renderings, the proposed project includes the following work items:
• Demolish the existing rear wood porch
• Remove the existing historic wood back door, transom glass panel above, and frame
• Shorten the former door opening/partially infill with masonry (stone) to match the existing to
accommodate a new 1/1 wood window, which will match the adjacent existing kitchen windows on
the North elevation. This new window will match the existing house’s window frame color and
profile to appear original.
• Install the salvaged historic wood back door, transom glass panel above, and frame into the existing
window opening on the South Elevation. The window opening will be enlarged. The brick rework to the
South elevation opening will include saw-cutting and toothing-in matching brick for this relocated door
and transom to appear as though it was original in this location.
• Install a set of wood steps at the existing metal fire escape which leads from the new door to grade
• Erect a new two-car, one-story garage. The garage will feature red brick at the exterior walls and a flat
roof. A decorative herringbone pattern will be located above the garage doors at the primary elevation.
Garage doors will be grey metal panels overhead doors (color charcoal grey). A single man door (color
charcoal grey) will be located at the rear elevation.
STAFF OBSERVATIONS
Please see the below-attached Sanborn Fire Insurance Maps which date from 1897, 1921, and 1950. A review of
these maps indicate that the rear porch proposed for removal does not date from the building’s original
construction. Rather, a rear porch appears sometime between 1897 and 1921. According to the Sanborn maps, the

 original historic-age rear porch was roofed in slate or metal, whereas other nearby rear porches in less visible
locations show composition (asphalt) roofs. Such treatment may have been due to its visibility from the public
way, as the rear of the house here was also dressed in stone.
However, based on the HDC’s own records from an application reviewed in 1995, it is unclear whether the
currently existing wooden porch is (1) a repaired historic-age structure, (2) a contemporary recreation based on
historic drawings/photos, or (3) a new speculative design based on general historic precedents found appropriate
by staff. Based upon the meeting minutes of a public hearing held on June 1, 1995 for the primary purpose of
addressing the illegal removal of the original cornice, the existing rear porch at that time was described as “rotted”
and “nothing there,” with Commissioners suggesting that the applicant work with staff to resolve anything “open
for interpretation.” However, a contemporaneous staff report also notes that the rear porch “retains the original
architectural character of the structure.” No further COAs or records appear in our records. Given the fair to good
condition of the currently existing rear porch twenty-four years later, and the records from 1995, it is reasonable
to assume that the porch was repaired/replaced during or subsequent to 1995, and may not be original fabric, or
even represent its original expression.
APPLICABLE ELEMENTS OF DESIGN (CAMPBELL SYMINGTON HOUSE)
Height. The building is two and one half (2½) stories high.
Proportion of building's front facade. While the facade is approximately as tall as it is wide, the division of the
facade into three (3) vertical sections and the treatment of the roof above the facade create a vertical
proportional system, while at the same time establishing a balance approaching symmetry.
Proportion of openings within the facade. Windows and doors amount to about twenty-five (25) percent of the
front facade area, excepting roof. All window and door openings are considerably taller than wide, excepting
the front entrance and the window directly above it, which is only slightly taller than wide. Although windows
are paired in some locations, they are not so close as to constitute a single opening. Windows are one-over-one
sash.
Rhythm of solid to voids in front facade. The three (3) sections of the front facade are each fenestrated within
themselves. The south section, a projecting bay, contains one window in each of the three (3) faces of the bay
on both first and second floors; the recessed and narrow center section contains a double front entrance door at
first floor level and a large window directly above at the second floor level; the northern section contains a pair
of windows at both first and second floor levels.
Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. Inapplicable due to single building district.
Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Inapplicable due to single building district.
Relationship of materials. The major material is stone; three (3) types are used in the construction. The major
wall material is a veined stone, laid in smooth faced coursed ashlar. The front and side porches are of sandstone,
and the foundation of Trenton limestone, both laid in rock-faced coursed ashlar. Brick is used for walls in the
southwest corner of the house. Wood is used for window frames, the front porch superstructure, cornices, and
gable ends. The roof is covered in slate in the "Fish-Scale" pattern. Since almost the entire building, including
the roof, is stone, the major contrast of materials lies in the wooden elements. The brick in the rear was not
meant to be seen by the public, and was not intended as a contrast of materials.
Relationship of textures. The smooth-faced stone of the walls, combined with plain-cut mortar joints, creates a
smooth surfaced wall, which contrasts with the rock-faced stone of the foundation and porches, the wooden
elements, and the fish-scale slate roof.
Relationship of color. The major color impression is the red-pink veining of the major stone, which contrasts
with the buff color of the porch stone and the grey-white of the foundation stone. The grey slate provides
another color contrast. The woodwork at time of designation was painted dark red, with cream being used as a

 background color for the gable carvings. The dark red provides contrast and relates well to the color of the
stone. The original colors of the house, as determined by professional analysis are always acceptable.
Relationship of architectural details. Much of the detail on the building is carried out in the major stone.
Windows have rusticated surrounds with hoodmoulds in stone. Drip courses exist at window sill level on both
first and second floors. On the north side, a projecting bay is surmounted by a third floor dormer with decorative
stonework terminating the projection. The wooden front porch is extremely simple, with two (2) rectangular
columns at each corner coupled by an arch between them; the porch roof has a simple entablature with triglyphs.
The major gable end facing east surmounts the two-story bay window; the overhanging corners of the gable are
supported by two (2) large brackets in wood. The main gable end and the gable ends of the dormers are covered
with carved wood ornament. A simple wooden cornice divides the walls from the roof.
Relationship of roof shapes. The basic roof form is a hip roof with a flat center. There are subsidiary roofs of
both the hip and the gable type. Above the southern segment of the main facade, the roof is extended easterly
as a gable roof. Above the northern segment of the main facade, the roof extends easterly as a hip roof, but
extends above the dormer window as a gable roof.
Walls of continuity. Inapplicable due to single building district.
Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The house has grass turf to the east and
north. Foundation plantings are not present; there are some deciduous plantings. New plantings should reflect
the practices of the late Victorian Period. A simple concrete walk leads directly to the front steps from the
public sidewalk. A low iron fence is placed diagonally from the northeast corner of the house to the intersection
of the Second Avenue and Alexandrine public sidewalks.
Relationship of open space to structure. The front of the house faces onto a small front lawn; there are small
side yard spaces, and a small rear yard space.
Scale of facades and facade elements. As existing at time of designation. See photograph on file in the office
of the city clerk.
Directional expression of front elevation. The division of the facade into three (3) segments, with surmounting
gable or dormer on the two (2) segments to the sides, and the tall, narrow windows, are strong vertical elements.
The division of the facade into three (3) segments, with surmounting gable or dormer on the two (2) segments
to the sides, and the tall, narrow windows, are strong vertical elements. The front porch drip courses provide
horizontal elements of considerably less strength. The composition emphasizes the vertical.
Rhythm of building setbacks. Inapplicable due to single building district.
Relationship of lot coverages. Inapplicable due to single building district.
Degree of complexity within the facade. The facade is basically composed of three (3) vertical elements, with
decorative stonework within the segments. The porch and the cornices are simple wooden elements, while the
decorative detail of the gables is much more complex.
Orientation, vistas, overviews. The building's primary orientation is to Second Avenue; there is a secondary
orientation to Alexandrine.
Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. While the treatment of the facade is not perfectly symmetrical, with
differences in window and roof treatments from one side to the other, the facade is balanced, and a symmetrical
composition.
General environmental character. The relatively small lot size in relationship to the building, the nearness of
other structures, and the closeness of the house to the public sidewalk contribute to the urban character of this

 substantial Victorian house. A mixture of residential, commercial, and institutional buildings in the area creates
a feeling of diversity and continuing history, to which the Campbell Symington House contributes.
APPLICABLE ELEMENTS OF DESIGN (WILLIS SELDEN HISTORIC DISTRICT)
Height. Single-family or small multiunit residential structures range in height from one and one-half (1½) to
two and one-half (2½) stories in height. Apartment buildings typically range in height from two (2) stories to
four (4) stories, often on high basements; a majority of these buildings are three (3) stories in height with high
basements. The apartment building at 70 West Alexandrine Avenue is eight stories in height. Commercial and
other building types typically range from one (1) to two (2) stories in height. The building at 444
West Willis Avenue, commonly known as the Willys-Overland Building, is historically four (4) stories in height
and features a modern, set back, fifth (5th) story addition. The building at 3933 Woodward Avenue, commonly
known as the Garden Theater, is three (3) stories in height. The building at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly
known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church, features a sanctuary that is a tall, single story in height, a tower that
is approximately one and one-half (1½) times as tall as the sanctuary, and a two-story addition.
Proportion of buildings' front façades. Front façades of single-family or small multi-unit residential structures
are typically as tall as wide or slightly taller than wide. Front façades of apartment buildings are commonly as
tall as wide or slightly taller than wide, with the exception of broader buildings at 3761 Second Avenue,
commonly known as the Coronado Apartments, 711 West Alexandrine Avenue, 495-497 West WillisAvenue,
and 477 West Alexandrine Avenue, which are significantly wider than tall. Front façades of single-story
commercial buildings are significantly wider than tall, while multi-story commercial buildings and other nonresidential buildings tend to be slightly wider than tall. Buildings often occupy most or all of deep lots, resulting
in side elevations of buildings that are often substantially wider than tall.
Proportion of openings within the façades. Openings typically amount to between twenty (20) percent and
thirty-five (35) percent of the front façade. Commercial buildings often feature expansive storefront windows
on their first (1st) floors, though in many cases these windows have been covered with boards or closed in with
brick or concrete block. Sash windows, taller than wide, predominate on all building types. On apartment
buildings, sash windows are sometimes arranged in groupings which, together, are square or wider than tall. A
significant minority of buildings feature arched, mullioned, semicircular, casement, or dormer windows
appropriate to their respective architectural styles. Upper sashes and transoms are occasionally subdivided into
smaller panes. Casement windows are usually subdivided into smaller panes. Door openings are typically
slightly larger in scale than window openings. Primary entrance openings are usually centered on the façades
of commercial and apartment buildings, but usually off-center on the façades of smaller residential buildings.
Rhythm of solids to voids in front façades. Despite a variety of building types, the overall impression is one of
regular, repetitive openings arranged horizontally within façades. A repetitive flow of storefront openings,
where they exist, creates a rhythm along commercial frontage. Smaller residential buildings as well as the
building at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church, display more varied, often
asymmetrical, arrangements of openings, but the overall impression is still one of regular, repetitive openings.
Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. Rhythm of spacing on streets is generally determined by setbacks
from side lot lines. The overall character of the district is one of densely clustered, yet visually distinct,
structures separate by narrow setbacks. Commercial buildings frequently abut adjacent buildings, typically
featured no setbacks from side lot lines, especially on Woodward Avenue where evenly spaced storefronts
create a regular spacing of buildings. There is a general regularity in the widths of subdivision lots from one
block to another, contributing to a regular rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets.
Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. Porches on smaller residential buildings typically project while
those on other types of buildings usually do not. On residential buildings only, entrances are often located
several steps above grade to accommodate high basements. Doorways on smaller residential buildings are often
set beneath gable-roofed or arched openings, while doorways on other buildings are typically centered on their

 façades. A regular rhythm of entrances is created by a row of similar commercial buildings along Woodward
Avenue.
Relationship of materials. A majority of buildings are faced with brick and feature stone or cast stone trim.
Single-family residential buildings are generally faced with brick and feature wooden brackets, bay windows,
vergeboards, timbering, porch supports, dentils, entablature, or other classically inspired elements, and other
details depending on style. A small number of single-family residential buildings feature wood clapboard
siding. Stone or stone facing defines the foundations of buildings at 643-647 and 748 West Alexandrine
Avenue, 481 Brainard Avenue, 3957 and 4107 Cass Avenue, and 500 West Willis Avenue, the lower levels of
buildings at 4120 Cass Avenue, 3761 Second Avenue, 495-497 West Willis Avenue, and the entire primary
façade of buildings at 624 and 627 West Alexandrine Avenue and 3977 Cass Avenue. The buildings at 3901
Cass Avenue, commonly known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church, 3900 and 3977 Second Avenue, and 4100
Third Avenue are composed primarily of stone. Sash windows are historically wood but have, in many cases,
been replaced with windows of more modern materials. Stone is used for window sills on a majority of buildings
within the district. While roofs within the district are generally flat and not visible, pitched roofs typically
feature visible slate or asphalt shingles. Buildings at 686 Selden and 711 West Alexandrine Avenue feature
clay tile roofs. The building at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church,
features a copper roof on its tower.
Relationship of textures. On a majority of buildings within the district, the major textural effect is that of brick
with mortar joints juxtaposed with cast stone or limestone trim. Patterned brickwork is used to create subtle
detail on commercial and apartment buildings, such as spandrels and rectangular panels, and more pronounced
textural interest where it exists on the upper stories of buildings, such as at 461 West Alexandrine Avenue, and
in an arcaded cornice on the building at 711 West Alexandrine Avenue. Where they exist, detailed wooden
vergeboards, gables, brackets, and dormers create considerable textural interest on all single-family residential
buildings in the district. Rough-cut stone with thick mortar joints creates considerable textural interest on
buildings where it exists, while other buildings feature smooth stone with thin mortar joints. In general, asphalt
shingle roofs do not contribute to textural interest.
Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors in shades of brown, red, and buff predominate on wall surfaces,
while natural stone colors in shades of gray, red, and brown also exist. Although most roofs are flat and therefore
not visible, sloped roofs typically feature gray asphalt, while some feature red or green clay tile or slate in
contrasting colors of gray, red, or green. Wooden architectural details are frequently painted in bold colors,
appropriate to the architectural style of the buildings, which contract markedly with brick facing. Brick
apartment buildings are generally unpainted, with gray stone trim contracting with brown or buff brickwork.
Brick on commercial buildings is frequently painted in shades of yellow or orange. The original colors of any
building, as determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for that building and may provide
guidance for similar buildings.
Relationship of architectural details. Buildings in the district exemplify a broad range of architectural styles,
and their architectural details relate to their style. Pre-1880 residential buildings, as well as commercial
buildings on Woodward Avenue, are Italianate in style. Single-family residential buildings are often Queen
Anne or Stick/Eastlake in style. Romanesque Revival structures include the building at 3977 Second Avenue,
commonly known as the Campbell-Symington House, and the building at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly known
as the Cass Avenue Methodist Church. Larger apartment buildings include the Spanish Medieval building at
624 West Alexandrine Avenue, commonly known as the El Moore Flats, and several buildings in Beaux Arts
and Colonial Revival styles. Also represented are the Jacobethan Revival, Craftsman, Spanish Colonial, Late
Gothic, and Neo-Georgian styles. Buildings range from vernacular to high style in appearance, with the level
of architectural detail varying greatly from one building to the next.
Relationship of roof shapes. Most apartment buildings and all nonresidential buildings have flat roofs that
cannot be seen from the ground, with the exception of the building at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly known as
Cass Avenue Methodist Church, with prominent cross gables defining its nave and transept and a hip roof

 defining a two-story addition. Single-family residential buildings feature multiple roof shapes, with steps,
intersecting gables, dormers, towers, and tall chimneys creating dramatic silhouettes. Flat-roofed apartment
buildings often feature stepped or triangular parapet walls, occasionally with crenellation or balustrades, which
add interest to the building's roofline.
Walls of continuity. Setbacks of residential buildings tend to vary slightly from one buildings to the next, but
generally create a wall or continuity on all streets in the district, except where building demolition has created
vacant lots. The continuous façades of commercial buildings, where they exist in rows, create significant walls
of continuity in the district. Fencing, often modern steel units that resemble historic cast or wrought iron
fencing, exists at the front lot line of many properties and suggests an additional wall of continuity. Mature
trees and public lighting fixtures generally do not contribute to a wall of continuity due to their irregular
placement throughout the district.
Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The overall impression is that east-west
streetscapes are abundantly planted whereas north-south streetscapes are not. Typical treatment of individual
residential properties is a shallow, flat front lawn in grass turf, subdivided by a straight concrete walk leading
to the front entrance. Alleys provide access to the rear of a majority of lots in the district; a small number of
these lots contain garages in the rear accessed via the alley. Trees, hedges, and other landscaping features are
irregularly spaced. Trees in the front yards of buildings vary in size, age, and species. Most commercial
buildings, and a smaller number of apartment buildings, are built up to the front lot line. Public sidewalks run
alongside all streets in the district. Curbs, while historically stone, have been replaced with concrete in a
majority of the district. Public lighting is generally of the modern, steel, pole-mounted variety, though wrought
iron-style light fixtures exist on Woodward Avenue.
Relationship of open space to structures. Front and side yards range from shallow to nonexistent, while most
smaller residential buildings feature rear yards. Other than public rights-of-way, large areas of open space exist
only where they have been created by building demolition; sometimes these spaces serve as parking lots or are
maintained as open lawns.
Scale of façades and façade elements. Single-family residential buildings are moderate to large in scale relative
to typical buildings from the period in which they were constructed. Apartment buildings range from small to
large in scale, with a small number of buildings, such as the building at 70 West Alexandrine and the building
at 3751-73 Second Avenue, commonly known as the Coronado Apartments, being significantly larger in scale
than the others. The building at 444 West Willis Avenue, commonly known as the Willys-Overland building,
is also large in scale. Elements within the façades are generally small to medium in scale.
Directional expression of front elevations. Façades of single-family residential structures are generally vertical
in directional expression due to tall window and door openings and peaked rooflines. Apartment buildings
generally range from neutral to slightly vertical in directional expression, though a smaller number are
horizontal in directional expression. Commercial buildings, especially single-story ones, are generally
horizontal in directional expression due to broad storefront windows and, where they exist, horizontal cornices.
Rhythm of building setbacks. A degree of irregularity is introduced by varying setbacks of front facades; smaller
residential buildings tent to be set several feet back from the public sidewalk, while larger apartment buildings
and other buildings often occupy their entire lots. While setbacks may vary slightly from one building to the
next the overall impression is one of a consistent rhythm of building setbacks. Where building demolition has
occurred, the original rhythmic progression of buildings has been disrupted.
Relationship of lot coverages. Lot coverage within the district are generally high, but vary based on building
type. Single-family residential buildings and smaller apartment buildings often occupy between twenty (20)
percent and forty (40) percent of their lots, with much of the remaining space being devoted to rear yards. Other
building types range from fifty (50) percent to one hundred (100) percent lot coverage. Large buildings may
have light courts or central courtyard spaces. Commercial buildings, in particular, often occupy a large
percentage of their lots.

 Degree of complexity within the façades. The façades within the district range from simple to complex,
depending on style. Overall, front façades tend to be simple in their massing and mostly regular in their
fenestration, though a variety of window and door shapes, materials, architectural elements, and details of
individual buildings increase the overall level of complexity of the district.
Orientation, vistas, overviews. Buildings generally face the streets and are entered from the front façades by a
single or double doorway. The tallest buildings within the district, such as the building at 70 West Alexandrine
Avenue, the building at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church, the building
at 3761 Second Avenue, commonly known as the Coronado Apartments, and the building at 444
West Willis Avenue, commonly known as the Willys-Overland Building, constitute landmarks that are clearly
visible from several blocks away. The buildings on Woodward Avenue, visible from a considerable distance
up and down the street, are a significant component of a broader streetscape.
Symmetric or asymmetric appearance. The appearance of front façades in the district is, for the most part,
symmetrical. Single-family residential buildings tend to display a modest degree of asymmetry in massing and
architectural detail.
General environmental character. The general character of the district is that of a medium-density, mixed-use,
urban neighborhood of small to large apartment buildings interspersed with other building types. The distinct
maintains a sense of vitality as a result of its mixture of uses and the correspondingly diverse physical
appearance of its buildings.
RECOMMENDATION
As noted above, it is staff’s opinion that that the porch proposed for removal was likely repaired/replaced
during or subsequent to 1995, and may not be original fabric, or even represent its original expression. Also, it is
staff’s opinion that the proposed new garage does conform to the property’s and district’s Elements of Design
and will not detract from the district’s historic character. Staff therefore recommends that the Commission issue
a Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) for the work as proposed because it meets the Secretary of the Interior
Standards for Rehabilitation, standard number 2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property
shall be avoided and number 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic
materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with
the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and its environment.
However, staff does recommends that that this COA be issued with the following condition:

•

Staff shall be afforded the opportunity to review and approve the final project construction drawings
prior to the issuance of the permit.

Motion DRAFT
I move that the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the project as proposed because it meets
the Secretary of the Interior Standards for Rehabilitation, standard number 2) The historic character of a property
shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that
characterize a property shall be avoided and number 9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and
shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property
and its environment: with the following condition:

•

HDC Staff shall be afforded the opportunity to review and approve the final project construction
drawings prior to the issuance of the permit.

 Sanborn Fire Insurance Map, 1897.
Note that rear porch is not present

Sanborn Fire Insurance Map, 1921.
Note that rear porch is present

 Sanborn Fire Insurance Map, 1921. Note that rear
porch is present and home at 3969 at Second has
been demolished, leaving the garage

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. . ls? .
9'13?- .t - - 

 

 

 

 

1
.

 

 



15ch ?43an Omtimus

In MIBHIBMI

 

 

 

 



      

4i

Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

April 22, 2019

Historic Preservation
Detroit Planning & Development Dept.
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue Suite
Detroit, Michigan
48226

Regarding:
Historical District Commission review for:
Proposed two-car detached garage at 3977 Second Avenue, Detroit, Michigan

Attachment: Completed HDC Application and drawing package for the Detroit Historical District Commission
review

Dear HDC:
The following is a description of the new work and information being submitted to the Historical District
Commission for a proposed 2-car detached garage at 632 Prentis:
•

Description of the existing conditions:
This property includes the Campbell Symington House and is a one-house District 12 “Campbell
Symington House”. The parcel is on the southwest corner of Second Avenue and West Alexandrine
Avenue. This three-story historic house fronts Second Avenue. The rear yard is accessible from West
Alexandrine Avenue and is partially paved with grass. The rear yard is the proposed location for a new
two-car detached garage structure. There is an existing rear open porch that does not appear original
as it was installed over the in-place stone house facade. This wood porch can be removed without
damaging the existing house’s stone facade (red-vein sandstone).
Please see existing condition photographs around this porch area below in this letter.

•

Description of the project: This proposed project includes constructing a detached two-car garage in
the rear yard of the parcel and existing house at 3977 2nd. Avenue. The proposed garage is to be
detached and free-standing versus attached to the existing house, in order to not dramatically impact
the house’s rear historic facade.
Available public parking on the adjacent streets is limited. This house requires a two-car garage in
order to make it feasible for a one-family occupancy.
The garage has been designed to be brick on all four sides with a flat roof to blend with the adjacent
house and neighboring condominium. The driveway access would be from West Alexandrine. The

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093
garage front façade would include two flush overhead sectional doors, decorative brick work, and a
decorative steel lattice structure. These design features complement the existing house, and will allow
this structure to blend in and enhance the architecture of this historic neighborhood.
•

Detailed cope of the new work:
The proposed project scope includes the following:
o

o

o
•

New garage: Brick to match the two full height existing brick walls on the southwest corner of
the house. The structure will be wood framed with a full height brick veneer façade on all four
sides.
Removing existing rear open porch structure/repairing facade: The existing back porch
would be demolished, a door removed and replaced with a historic looking window, and the
surrounding stone repaired to match the stone facade.
Converting existing window to new doorway: Convert an existing window on the south
facade to an entry door with transom glass above.

Existing condition photographs:
Included with this letter are photographs of all four sides of the building as follows:

Front view facing Second Avenue

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

Side view facing West Alexandrine Avenue

Rear view with added wood porch

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

•

Side view facing south side
Addition detail photos:
This includes the following photos as follows:

Southwest facade with existing reclaimed brick to match

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

Existing wood porch ceiling top cut around sandstone details

Existing wood porch bottom cut around sandstone base

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

Matching sandstone to be cleaned & used for patching new door opening

Sandstone fire pit discovered on site

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093

Proposed new brick for garage
•

Proposed colors and materials:
o Brick: To match the existing reclaimed brick facades on the southwest corner of the house.
o Garage doors: Charcoal gray pre-finished steel flush insulated sectional overhead doors.
o Decorative Lattice: Charcoal gray painted custom steel fabrication.
o New kitchen window: Custom sized casement with fixed unit above to match the existing
house look and frame color
o New side door: Relocate and re-install the back door with the glass transom above. Rework
the brick opening by saw-cutting and toothing-in new matching brick and Morata.

•

Contextual design: This detached garage will blend in and enhance the architecture of this historic
neighborhood similarly as the new retail development one block north below:

Adjacent architecture for contextualism

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093
•

Attached information:
o Sheet No. 1: “Site & Floor Plan, Elevations, & Details”
o Proposed New Site Plan

Please consider granting historical approval for this project and let us know if you have any questions or
comments or require any additional information.
We look forward to presenting this proposed project at the upcoming May 8th. HDC meeting.
Respectfully submitted,

Michael Thompson AIA
Copy: Zain Mikho, Owner of 3977 2nd. Avenue house

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093
May 1, 2019

Jennifer R. Ross
Architectural Historian, Staff, Historic District Commission
Detroit Planning & Development Dept.
Coleman A. Young Municipal Center
2 Woodward Avenue Suite
Detroit, Michigan 48226

Regarding:
Revised and additional information being submitted for the:
Historical District Commission review for:
Proposed two-car detached garage at 3977 Second Avenue, Detroit, Michigan

Attachments: Five attachments as follows:
• Revised proposed new window elevation
• Overhead garage door data
• Garage man door cut sheet
• Charcoal Smoke color chip
• Photo of existing door & frame

Dear Jennifer:
This letter and additional information is follow-up per our telephone conversation earlier today.
In addition, I spoke with the Owner, Zain Mikho, after we had talked, and he is in full agreement with the
proposed additional information being submitted today as follows:
•

New proposed kitchen window on West Elevation:
Please see the newly revised West Elevation drawing that now shows the proposed new window to
have two equal glass sections to better match the adjacent existing kitchen windows on the North
elevation. Disregard the original proposed new window that featured a smaller transom section on top
with a large casement unit below. This new window will match the existing house’s window frame color
and profile to appear original.

•

Style of the proposed overhead garage doors:
The two proposed overhead garage doors will be prefinished steel, flush panel, sectional doors. Please
see the attached image and note that the color will be “Charcoal Smoke” gray

•

Style/type of man-door proposed for back of garage:
The proposed man-door will be a steel hollow-metal door. Please see the attached image and data.
Note that the color will be “Charcoal Smoke” gray.

 Thompson Design Group LLC, Michigan 248.933.5093
•

Gray color selection:
We are proposing “Charcoal Smoke” gray. This color is for the overhead doors, the man-door, and the
decorative metal lattice over the OH doors. This gray accent color blends well with the matching brick
and is featured on a number of adjacent historic buildings.

•

Photo of existing back door to be relocated:
Our proposal includes carefully removing the existing historic wood back door, transom glass panel
above, and frame and reinstalling it into an existing window opening on the South Elevation that will
need to be enlarged. The brick rework to the South elevation opening will include saw-cutting and
toothing-in matching brick for this relocated door and transom to appear as though it was original in
this location.

Please consider granting historical approval for this project and let us know if you have any questions or
comments or require any additional information.
We look forward to presenting this proposed project at the upcoming May 8th. HDC meeting.
Respectfully submitted,

Michael Thompson AIA
Copy: Zain Mikho, Owner of 3977 2nd. Avenue house

 Nag-r ALEXAHPELHE AVENUE





 

34.14le 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


55;" 1.3' 00 "?rearm CONCRETE
99421125551 1 ,4

BLDG.

 
 

20'

 

 

 

 

 

{6

 

CDC)

 

 

 

I 42.STEPS PORCH 2.3? . - . - 19.4tw??m?

 



 
   

 

HNWW Fan-rm;

H5045

 

459;:

2-?mol?t . . .-
??gg 3 1 Mm?u?i?? . 
- . 

  

PETMHEP

guilt-3TH? . GAEAQE.





  

 

 

 

PEHmek:


125411425?.

. 1.4 5'







 

 

 

 

Egrp??w FEHAND - 
K. 5-1142 



v?uaw LAT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



a r: err-r Pw-r'rmg)

 

Preposed New Site Plan

No?r Tc? gdhLE?, 04/22/51

 

 

 

 

 



d?i736

 
 
 
  
  
  
   

 

 

 


- .
Q: 11.-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


_Umm_mz
_Lun

-- 7-. 

4.3.. QicEQWIWQE - .-



 

 

 

 





 

 



 

 

 

 

[El-.57

.225 ?gs?Wm

 

 

:11

Omx. 
- WSW-.11

 

 

 

 

 

 

 







 

 
           
     
     
   
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
 

mi WQJWIWW-WQ

awn?? .3.







 

 

 

Ill-l 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.1-..- - - - - .W - -. El
H-1-1I H1..-1- -- .- .6 &?\K?rlm ..V 2 inn? Whammy 

.vac?gamma
-- . . . - - . . .- - 
-- - 1-1--11111Hw. 
- .1 - .-11 . -. .. JEHI . IE .W..W-.1 1 . W- . mm. Wm; anW111 ..
W1 - . 111. .- . . ..- ..- .--. .- m?
-. 

1 . 111.111.11.11--.--11111111.--. .- 11111.1 .1 -..-..I .1111. -- 1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

W14. WW.


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. .- .-.-111--..-1. _1 1.110&3? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
    
  


- 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

- .111 111- 1.- - .
.111 . . . ..Q-WWWAWQ .. . -
- - 11.1- 
. V1111 - - 
. .. .- 1: i 
..

 
 
 
   
  

 

(Sill nun-I1 . Ill-[Illa . 1.1.1.11: .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E113: 11:1 59

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wigwam1111 . - .-

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


I

 

25 
MEms.

. 
m. 

h_

1% 1713.
I
"i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



- 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ill-11E?!

 

NW.

 

 

111

 



MN .1. 
QQEWIQN. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.W...meWzQ??fQ

.


 

.. .1 
WW1. - . .- -
-1143 - - . 
. -- - .. - WmH i1i??l? af..linw
. . .
. .. ..
_mmcmu mom.

Qm 
- d1-

r14?Emmi? -
007.33%on

 

?3er .
Q. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- 1 11
.1769" 1:7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 


 

 

 

 

$1.1m. QQWN QFQZ

W.1Q..   
 
  
  
 
   
   
     
 
  
 

came. Jr
a LEAH

QTIHE As
?wanna



   

  
 

    


Polo . Wasp?
a: 
:Movz #27 I
wag

.t 2 9:2:

$111? 31*?

    
   

)4 
I

I 
HaueE - wee-r 

wear: -
S/an/l

Final proposal for west elevation door replacement

 

 



 

Charcoal Smoke valspar?

3316 Valaear
Available at Independent Retailers

Hollow Steel Security Door, Flush, Cylindrical Prep, SteelCraft Hinge, 18 Ga,
32"W X 84"H
Hollow Metal Steel Door with Honeycomb Core, 3 Hour Fire rating, 18 Gauge, Cylindrical Lock Prep, Thermal
Insulation U Factor 0.41, Non Handed, includes Closer Reinforcement, Hinge locations From Top of Door, 7-3/8",
39-5/16", 71-1/4", Lock Prep Location from top of Door, 42-7/16".

 (2) 9’- 0” wide x 8’- 0” high, flush panel,
sectional overhead garage doors:

Door color to match Smoke Gray color chip submitted.

 