STAFF REPORT 5-8-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER 19-6183
ADDRESS: 14611 WARWICK
HISTORIC DISTRICT: ROSEDALE PARK
APPLICANT: ALVIN GOLDSMITH
DATE OF STAFF VISIT: 5-2-2019

PREPARED BY: J. ROSS

PROPOSAL
Erected ca. 1932, the dwelling at 14611 Warwick is a single-family dwelling that is located
within the Rosedale Park Historic District. The building has a rectangular footprint and is 2 stories in
height. The roof is front gabled and displays gabled- and shed-roof dormers. A centrally-located brick
chimney tops the roof. Exterior walls are primarily clad with brick, while aluminum siding appears at
the rooftop dormer sidewalls. Stone detailing is also present at the front elevation. Windows are the
original wood 6/1 units. Decorative wood shutters flank the centrally-located windows at the primary
elevation, first story. The property also includes a small wood-frame garage which likely dates from the
home’s original period of construction. The 18’-2”x 21’-5” garage is located to the rear of the home and
is clad with vinyl siding. The roof is front gabled with a rear shed wood wing/extension. A single, white
metal door is at the building’s primary elevation.

With the current submission, the applicant is seeking this body’s approval to demolish the existing garage
and replace it with a new larger three-car garage. Specific work items which have been submitted to this
body for consideration include the following:
•
•

Demolish the existing, 18’-2”x 21’-5”, ca. 1932 garage
Erect a new, larger garage at the same location. The new garage footprint will measure 30’x26’
and the height is 16’-2.” Exterior walls will be clad with a lapped vinyl siding (same color as the
existing garage’s vinyl siding, and the roof will be hipped. The primary elevation will feature two,
white paneled aluminum overhead doors; one which measures 16’x8’ and one which measures
8’x8”. No additional windows or doors are proposed.

STAFF OBSERVATIONS
Please see the attached letter, in which the applicant provides a narrative re: his desire to replace the
existing garage with a new, larger garage. Specifically, he has noted that he would like to replace the
existing garage because the existing structure is too small to accommodate his three cars. He also
mentions that the condition is poor as “…the wood is infested with termites” and the concrete foundation
is cracking/bowing. The new garage is 12’ longer and 4’-5” deeper than the existing garage. However,
due to the midblock location of the home and the siting of the garage (to the rear of the home) the
additional depth and length will not be easily discernable from the public right-of-way. Also, it is staff’s
opinion that the existing garage has lost its integrity and does not contribute to the home’s or district’s
historic character. Finally, please note that staff did request that the applicant provide dimensioned
elevation drawings of the side and rear elevations. He noted that sides and rear elevations will not include
windows or doors. However, he did commit to providing this information to the Commission for review
at the May, 2019 meeting.
ELEMENTS OF DESIGN
(1)
Height. The height of the single-family residential structures in the Rosedale Park

 Historic District range from one (1) story to two-and-one-half (2) stories tall, the halfstories contained within the roof. The standards, as defined in original deed restrictions,
shall be met by new single-family residences. Additions to existing buildings shall be
related to the existing structure. Garages are generally one-story tall. The three (3)
apartment buildings on West Outer Drive near Grand River Avenue are two-stories tall on
a high basement. The red brick church on Fenkell at Stahelin has a slightly vaulted
sanctuary section that is nearly three stories in height and two single-story wings.
(2)
Proportion of buildings front façades. The typical front façades of residential
buildings in the Rosedale Park Historic District are often wider than tall or as wide as tall
to their eaves. Tall half-stories with dormers provide additional height.
(3)
Proportion of Openings Within the Façades. Proportion of openings varies greatly
according to the style of the building. Typical openings are taller than wide, but individual
windows are often grouped together to fill a single opening which is wider than tall.
Windows are often subdivided; buildings designed in English Revival styles frequently
display leaded glass in casement windows and transoms. In buildings derived from
classical precedents, double-hung sash windows are further subdivided by muntins. A
variety of arched openings and bay windows exist throughout the district. Modernisticstyle residential buildings have large openings with a variety of proportional relationships.
Dormers projecting from the front roof slopes of many houses in the district add to the
window area. Openings range from twenty percent (20%) to seventy-five percent (75%)
of the front façades, most falling into the twenty-five percent (25%) to thirty-five percent
(35%) range.
(4)
Rhythm of Solids to Voids in Front Façades. In buildings derived from classical
precedents, voids are usually arranged in a symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within
the façades. In buildings of other styles, particularly those of English Revival sub-styles,
voids are arranged with more freedom, but usually result in balanced compositions. Voids
often dominate the design of the front façades of modernistic style houses.
(5)
Rhythm of Spacing of Buildings on Streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally
determined by the lot sizes and the setbacks from side lot lines. There is a general regularity
in the widths of subdivision lots from one block to another, and a shared rhythm and
cadence along the streetscapes. Generally, all residences or parts thereof, including
cornices, balconies, pergolas or porches, are not nearer than three (3) feet to the side lot
line, or as defined by specific subdivision or deed restrictions.
(6)
Rhythm of Entrance and/or Porch Projections. Entrance and porch types usually
relate to the style of the building. Generally, entrances and porches on buildings of English
Revival precedents exhibit freedom of placement and orientation, while buildings of
classical inspiration typically have porches and entrances centered on the front façade. A
common entry arrangement on vernacular English Revival houses is that of a slightly
projecting, steeply gabled vestibule or gabled wall punctured with an arched opening. On
smaller scaled buildings of later building styles, such as the Garrison Colonials, minimalist
traditionals, and ranches, entrances and porches are positioned on one side of the front

 façade. Some houses have entrances that recede while others have porches, steps, and/or
entrances that project. Most porches occupy a single bay while others, particularly on Arts
and Crafts and Bungalow style houses, span the length of the front façade. Side and rear
secondary entrances and porches and enclosed sunrooms are common. A rhythm of
entrances and porches is not discerned due to the variety of house designs in the district.
(7)
Relationship of Materials. Masonry is the most significant material in the majority
of houses in the Rosedale Park Historic District, in the form of pressed or wire cut brick,
often combined with wood, stone, and/or stucco. Wood is almost universally used for
window frames, half-timbering, and other functional trim. Windows are commonly either
of the metal casement or wooden sash variety. Aluminum siding and aluminum canted
windows on later buildings are sometimes original; vinyl siding and vinyl windows, where
they exist, are replacements. Glass block exists as an original material in some window
openings of buildings in modern styles. Roofs on the majority of the houses in the Rosedale
Park Historic District are asphalt shingled, while several original slate roofs still exist.
Garages, where they are contemporary with the residential dwelling, often correspond to it
in materials.
(8)
Relationship of Textures. The major textural relationship is that of brick laid in
mortar, often juxtaposed with wood or smooth or rough-faced stucco and/or stone elements
and trim. Textured brick and brick laid in patterns creates considerable interest, as does
half-timbering, leaded and subdivided windows, and wood shingled or horizontally- sided
elements. Some Arts and Crafts style buildings have stone as their major first floor
material, providing a rustic, organic appearance, and stucco or wood at second story level.
Slate roofs have particular textural values where they exist; asphalt shingles generally do
not.
(9)
Relationship of Colors. Natural brick colors such as red, yellow, brown, or buff
dominate in wall surfaces. Natural stone colors also predominate; where stucco or concrete
exists, it usually remains in its natural state, or is painted in a shade of cream. Roofs are in
natural slate colors, and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same dark color
range. Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings derived from classical precedents,
such as the Neo-Dutch Colonials and Garrison Colonials, generally have woodwork
painted in the white or cream range. English Revival style buildings generally have painted
wood trim and window frames of dark brown, gray, buff, or shades of cream, depending
on the main body color. Half timbering is most frequently stained or painted dark brown.
Stained and leaded glass, where it exists as decoration visible on the front façade,
contributes to the artistic interest of the building. The original colors of any building, as
determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for a house, and may provide
guidance for similar houses. Colors used on garages should relate to the colors of the main
dwelling.
(10) Relationship of Architectural Details. The architectural elements and details of
each structure generally relate to its style. Contributing residential buildings, constructed
between 1917 and 1955, were designed in styles identified as English Tudor Revival, Arts
and Crafts, Bungalow, Colonial Revival, Dutch Colonial Revival, Foursquare, Prairie,

 French Renaissance, Ranch, Garrison Colonial, Minimal Traditional, and International, or
hybrids of these styles. Characteristic elements and details displayed on vernacular English
Revival-influenced dwellings include arched windows and door openings, steeply pitched
gables, towers, clustered chimneys, and sometimes half-timbering. Classically-derived
styles display modest detail and architectural elements, mostly in wood in the form of
columned porches, shutters, cornices, and keystones. A great variety of dormer types (shed,
gabled, hipped, round-arched, and wall dormers), complimentary to the style of pre-circa
1935 buildings, are very common throughout the district. Porte cocheres and archways
adjoining the main body of the house add architectural interest where they exist. Modern
styles are generally characterized by smooth, relatively unadorned wall surfaces, horizontal
bands of windows, and simplicity. The bank building at the corner of Grand River Avenue
and Fenkell at 18203 Ashton was designed in a pared down Neo-classical style typical of
its period. The red brick church on Fenkell at Stahelin features a triple set of double doors,
stylized cross, and substantial stone piers demarcating its principal entrance. In general,
the district is rich in early to mid-twentieth century architectural styles.
(11) Relationship of Roof Shapes. A variety of roof shapes exists, relating to the style
of the dwellings. Common on English Revival buildings are steeply sloped pitched or
hipped roofs with complex arrangements of secondary roof shapes, including steeply
sloped gables, clipped gables, and shed roofs. These roofs are commonly interrupted by
gabled, shed, and multi-sided dormers, and substantial chimneys which are sometimes
clustered. Bungalows feature low-slung, side facing gable roofs with shed dormers.
Classically-inspired buildings display pitched or hipped roofs with less slope, with or
without dormers. Roofs of houses built later in the period of development of the district,
such as those of modern inspiration, tend to have significantly lower slopes. Flat roofs are
not typical except on porches, sunrooms, and other small extensions of a primary building
with a pitched roof, with the exception of the International style building facing Stoepel
Park No. 1 at 14901 Minock. Flat roofs as the main roof of a primary building are generally
not appropriate in the district.
(12) Walls of Continuity. The common setbacks of houses on straight residential streets
create strong visual walls of continuity. This is augmented by the landscaped features in
the public right-of-ways, such as the traffic islands and tree lawns planted with mature
trees.
(13) Relationship of Significant Landscape Features and Surface Treatments.
Monumental features mark the entrance to Rosedale Park near Grand River Avenue at
Ashton Boulevard and Fenkell with an elaborate set of brick and stone piers; at Glastonbury
with brick piers and masonry globes, bearing a plaque identifying the areas developers;
and at Piedmont, the more modest of the three with its very squat brick piers bearing
masonry globes. The flat terrain of the area is divided with principal streets oriented northsouth and alternating eighty (80) feet and one hundred (100) feet in width, and five eastwest streets fifty (50) feet wide. The district is separated from the Grand River Avenue
commercial lots by an alley. The typical treatment of individual residential properties is
that of a dwelling erected on a flat or slightly graded front lawn. The front lawn area is
generally covered with grass turf, subdivided by a straight or curving concrete or brick

 walk leading to the front entrance and a single width side driveway leading to a garage.
There is variety in the landscape treatment of individual properties. Lack of front yard
fencing in all but the western part of the district is a result of subdivision restrictions that
prevent fences nearer to the front line of the property than the rear of the building The
placement of trees on the tree lawn between the concrete public sidewalk and masonry curb
varies from block to block or street to street. Lots in Rosedale Park Subdivision No. 4, on
Auburn, Minock, and Plainview, have no curbs, and feature wide tree lawns. Replacement
trees on the public right-of-way should be characteristic of the area and period. Original
street lighting standards throughout the district have tall fluted poles with cranes necks and
replacement lanterns. Many have been replaced by tall, modern steel poles. A specific
light standard was designed for Outer Drive, and many still exist.
(14) Relationship of Open Space to Structures. The curbed, landscaped traffic islands
in the center of the north-south street require that the road curves around them. Minock,
Auburn, and Plainview on the western end of the district do not have the landscaped islands
in the public right-of-way, although West Outer Drive has some wide medians. Public
sidewalks line each side of the street, and are set back from the road by a tree-lawn that
widens when not opposite a landscaped traffic island. All houses have ample rear yards as
well as front yards. Wider lots in Rosedale Park permitted side drives with garages at the
rear of the lots. Where dwellings are located on corner lots, garages face the side street.
Garages, when original, often correspond in materials to the main body of the dwelling,
but are of modest, one-story, simple box design with single or double-doors. Some later
houses in the west part of the district were originally built with garages that were integrated
into the main body of the dwelling. About half of the original garages in the district have
been removed and/or replaced. Fences of metal, wood, or stone separate individual
properties from the alley behind the Grand River Avenue commercial frontage. While there
are a few hedges between properties in front, hedges and backyard fences are common
along the east-west streets, and backyard fences are common throughout the district.
Stoepel Park No. 1, outside of the districts southern and western edge, preserves open
space, as does Flintstone Park, outside of the district at its southeastern edge.
(15) Scale of Façades and Façade Elements. The Rosedale Park Historic District
comprises a single-family residential neighborhood of moderately scaled dwellings.
Houses erected in the 1940s and 1950s are generally smaller in scale than those built in the
earlier phase of development. Three (3) multi-unit apartment buildings, on the west side
of West Outer Drive near Grand River Avenue, are also moderately scaled. Elements and
details within are appropriately scaled, having been determined by the style, size and
complexity of the individual buildings. Window sash are usually subdivided by muntins
and casement windows are leaded, affecting the apparent scale of the windows within the
façades.
(16) Directional Expression of Front Elevations. The houses in the Rosedale Park
Historic District are horizontal or neutral in directional expression. Large architectural
elements within façades are frequently vertical in directional expression, such as multistoried projecting gabled sections, clustered chimneys, or columns. The three (3)
apartment buildings on West Outer Drive are horizontal in directional expression.

 (17) Rhythm of Building Setbacks. Front yard setbacks are generally consistent on each
residential street in the Rosedale Park Historic District, as prescribed by the deed
restrictions, although porches, entrance arrangements, window projections, and irregular
massing result in the appearance of variety.
(18) Relationship of Lot Coverages. The lot coverage for the single-family dwellings
ranges generally from twenty-five percent (25%) percent to thirty-five percent (35%),
including the garage, whether freestanding or attached.
(19) Degree of Complexity within the Façades. The degree of complexity has been
determined by what is typical and appropriate for a given style. Overall, there is a higher
degree of complexity in the English Revival style buildings, where their façades are
frequently complicated by gables, bays, irregularly placed openings and entrances, and
irregular massing, than those of other styles. The façades of classically inspired buildings
and modernistic buildings are more straightforward in their arrangement of elements and
details.
(20) Orientation, Vistas, Overviews. The orientation of buildings is generally toward
the north-south streets, with the exception of the house at 14901 Minock, which faces
Stoepel Park No. 1. The primary vistas are created by the landscaped traffic islands.
Because of the standard setbacks and lack of front yard fencing, the streetscape appears as
an unbroken greenbelt.
(21) Symmetric or Asymmetric Appearance. Front façades of buildings range from
completely symmetrical to asymmetrical but balanced compositions. English Revival style
buildings are irregular in layout and asymmetrical in appearance. The classically-inspired
buildings are generally symmetrical. The modernistic buildings are not symmetrical but
result in highly ordered compositions.
General Environmental Character. The Rosedale Park Historic District is a solid, fully
developed, large residential area of just under 1600 moderately-scaled single family
dwellings, built-up in the period between World War I and World War II and
complemented with typical examples of compatible houses from the 1950s. Its
landscaped features within the public right-of-ways results in a park-like setting. Located
approximately twelve miles from the citys center, the Grand River Avenue commercial
strip is to its north; otherwise, the area features several other substantial residential
subdivisions, including North Rosedale Park and Grandmont.
RECOMMENDATION
As noted above, it is staff’s opinion that the garage proposed for demolition does not contribute
to the district’s to property’s historic character. Also, the new/proposed garage will not detract
from the property’s historic appearance due to its siting and the midblock location of the property. Staff
therefore recommends that the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) for the proposed
project because it meets the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, standard number 9)
New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible

 with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property
and its environment.
However, staff recommends that the above-noted COA be given with the following conditions:
•
•

The color of the new garage doors shall match the color of the home’s trim
HDC staff shall be afforded the opportunity to review and approve the final construction drawings,
to include the side and rear elevations drawings, prior to the issuance of the COA

Motion DRAFT
I move that the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the proposed project
because it meets the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation standard number 9)
New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic
materials that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and
shall be compatible with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the
historic integrity of the property and its environment. This approval has been issued with the
following condition:
•
•

The color of the new garage doors shall match the color of the home’s trim
HDC staff shall be afforded the opportunity to review and approve the final construction drawings,
to include the side and rear elevations drawings, prior to the issuance of the COA.

  



z. 

..

 

 

      

HOW DO I MAKE

EXTERIOR CHANGES

WITHIN A HISTORIC 

CONFIRM YOU ARE LOCATED WITHIN A HISTORIC DISTRICT.

Go to to confirm your address is located within a local historic district. If so. any
modifications you would like to make to the exterior of your property must go through a review process by the
Historic District Commission (HDC) prior to obtaining a building permit to perform the work.

APPLY FOR PROJECT REVIEW BY HDC.

Submit details of the proposed scope of work to HDC Staff at HDC@detroitmi.gov. See application reqmrements
(based on scope of work) below. Depending on the complexity of the proposed work. you may be required to
appear before the Historic District Commission for their review.

IF APPROVED, OBTAIN BUILDING PERMIT.

Upon receiving a Certificate of Appropriateness (COA) for the proposed scope of work. you can then proceed to the
Buildings. Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) to obtain the building permit to perform the work.

APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS

NOTE: BSEED REQUIREMENTS NOT INCLUDED

 

WINDOW REPLACEMENT ROOF REPLACEMENT

(historic windows) (historic roofing materials)

- Completed Historic District Commission Project \i -Completed Historic District Commission Project Review
Request (including all checklist items) Request (including all checklist items)

- Completed Historic District Commission Application for the Detailed scope of work including any related work
Replacementof Windows (all pages must be such as dormers. gutters. soffit and fascia (formatted

submitted) which includes a brochure or other information as bulleted list)

giving the COIOF- materials. and configuration 0f the proposed Completed Historic District Commission Application
replacement windows; two (2) written estimates from di?erentEeg for Replacement of Historic Roofing (both pages must be
companies 0f the met to repair and paint the existing submitted) which includes: two (2) estimates of the cost
windows: detailed photographs showing the deterioration of V) ?00 repair the existing roof. two (2) estimates of the cost
the window interiors. $5 0 to replace with the same material. two (2) estimates of
\4 the cost for asphalt shingle replacement.

WINDOW REPLACEMENT 5~o

(non-historic windows) PAINT

- Completed Historic District Commission Project Review rt) -gompletted l?istlrictkfommissron 019? Review
Request (including all checklist items) sgitiic?itcn: plasinltigigs

ROOF REPLACEMENT - Diagrams indicating location of proposed paint color

(non-historic roofing materials) 
- Completed Historic District Commission Project Review If: it

DEMOLITION (including partial demo)

Completed Historic District Commission Project Review

Request (including all checklist iternS) Request (including all checklist items)
- Detailed scope of work including any related work . 
such as dormers. gutters. soffit and fascia (formatted compiete?? template by
as bulleted list) a iF?ec'Tc'e'ns 's mil?talengineer-
- tailed i w'll site once
SIDING REPLACEMENT dime at ?app? t? t?
- Completed Historic District Commission Project Review - For oa rtia include elevation 

 

Request (including all checklist items) j?dsu?acetreat?ii?ts 0 new ex?osedwaiL

SUBMIT ALL DOCUMENTATION TO hdc@detr0itmi.gov

 

HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 97
2 WOODWARD AVENUE. ROOM 808. DETROIT. Ml 48226 DATE:

PROPERTY INFORMATION

 

ADDRESS: 14/4: our; fr: AKA:

 

HISTORIC DISTRICT: Kn ode. PA n. 5' baht/I1; a 

APPLICANT IDENTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PrOperty Tenant or Architect/
Owner/ Contractor Business EngIneer/
Homeowner Occupant Consultant

NAME: GoldsmI-I'Irl COMPANYNAME:
ADDRESS: CITY: Demir 

 

PHONE: 3/3 373-. MOBILE: 31K 6/03 

 

PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST CHECKLIST

Please attach the following documentation to your request:

 

 

 

Photographs of ALL sides of existing building or site

 

 

Detailed photographs of location of proposed work (photographs to
show existing condition(s), design. color. and material)

 

 

 

 

Description of existing conditions (including materials and design)

 

 

 

 

Description of project (including an explanation as to why replacement-rather than repair-of
existing and/or construction of new is required) .- - -.



Detailed scope of work (formatted as bulleted list) I Based on the sc0pe of work. additional
documentation may be required
See for

Brochure/cut sheets for proposed replacement scope_speci?c requirements

material(s) and/or product(REPORT

April 15, 2019

To: The Honorable Historic District Commission:

My name is Alvin Goldsmith I am the homeowner of 14611 Warwick Street. I have owned and
occupied my home for 32 years, since 1987. Due to the age and continued expense associated
with maintaining my existing garage, the time has come to remove and replace the garage that
was built in the early 1940's.

The garage was built during a time when automobiles were much smaller than today's cars,
trucks and sport Utility vehicles (SUV). My garage is far too small to accommodate my vehicles
in relation to the size of vehicles built today and no longer meet my needs.

Over the past 32 years, I have patched and repaired my garage multiple times and from the
outside it looks pretty good. However, underneath the siding, the wood is infested with termites,
has holes and has rotted to a deplorable condition. Rodents have begun tunneling underneath into
my garage and housing there and it carries a strong stench of animal feces. The concrete is thin
and has cracks and holes also.

The concrete is also starting to bow in the middle which prevents the overhead doors from
sealing properly on either side which causes the ?oor to be damp most of the time. To great
expense, I have had the overhead door serviced on multiple occasions because the garage is
shifting. These issues have caused me to provide electrical power to the garage by use of
extension cords, which is a ?re hazard.

I would like to tear down my old garage and replace it with a three car garage big enough to
accommodate my three vehicles. I want to build a 30? 26? garage that is wider and deeper than
my 79 year old garage built in the1940?s.

The three car garage I want to build is not unique to the area, as there are several three car
garages on my street and around the immediate neighborhood. I have enclosed some photos of
garages on my street and around my house in this packet.

As we are all aware, the citizens of Michigan and especially Detroit are taking a beating when it
comes to auto insurance. Unfortunately, there are people targeting vehicles that are not garaged.
Thieves are breaking into vehicles, stealing cars and tires right from our yards and each
insurance claim ?led causes our rates to escalate even higher; causing greater liability and
expense in the short and long run.

I own a 4 4 truck for our treacherous winters, a Ford Flex that I drive daily and a 1957 classic
Ford. 1 am forced to pay a storage fee to house my classic car out of fear of it being
stolen and or vandalized right in the yard.

I recently retired from the City of Detroit after serving 32 years as a First Responder (Fire?ghter)
and can no longer a?ord to pay a storage fee to store my vehicle and the constant ongoing

expense for repairs to the existing garage. It?s time to replace the garage and bring the classic car
home. I need the courtesy of having a functional garage and the ability to have my vehicles in a
closed, locked garage out of sight and safe from predators to afford me peace of mind.

My promise is to have the new garage built of high quality in a timely manner, about the same

height as the current garage and to maintain the look and nostalgia of the other three car garages
in the neighborhood. Thank you for your support and consideration

A KM

Alvin Goldsmith

Respect?Jlly,

METROPOLITAN SUR VEY INC. 24141 JOHN R. HAZEL PARK: - 

MORTGAGE SURVEY
UNIVERSAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION

60. oo RIM 0
ti
FENCE
3 407' 4/ 45."
Scum?c 6 ?0773" 
if: EASE

Cu"

 

 

        
 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if] FPAME .
2b ?nn?u .
J, ?32 I {r 5:9
9.Nth.) (4mm In he 2? 
2.6 new? Zowi??e ?3
6 (1L r?gm ant/L p?alaIA/y 10.0 

I 13.0 -
ans Ian/M 30-: 7-7
zvo./4en 2
2 .sroav' In -
?9 3
?5'55- a. (15 PE .
23.5- I 23345:? 20.:
IQCHD 
1.0-7- LINE 0' 24
-
i o" 60.00 
6 .


 

 

 

?255; - 
WARWICK AVE. WD.

77::?55rA [who {1an

24? a u) pan-If?- 
WNHA [Jam'cgw (Ari? 
0? trick 5/50! a/?wn/

72) Tdu??is

{1qu

n.



n? 4'15 aw Rodi?
C/p'f'i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ya 05/} r?/y Nao? {to}
Fel-i? Pn?m .
Au? an?. .em-F/s 
(I . 7/5 
iisr?p.) w?nl 516.10 om Nu ff

{yo {1'4
I
2,
7'0 
Flu??
i . 
/0 *9 Beam hoe/?- 
WNW 


 

Tam? 
TOP 

a?nu

l-V ff 

at?

05/5 3

0?4 Op


77w?. tau/UMP,
wli?lk Vim?!
5353"??

Na? 9144?
P?dw [Black To
wal 

 

1?]an

I k;
To Ting?; 
Punt: cm? (Mag

E?i? To? 

'Z?lf 541-1335

6?
"r 0? cfwl?r"



 

 

.4.sz we}.

sn'll 5m; 
m1: fie lure-u o'u? 

 

 

 

?Mn mu? Ammo:





. in.) dehvk.



- 

 

 

I7- I
wibc

9/2 ?Dar/0

F/ag/L? 

Fla,"-
Qua/{M

 

 

- 'jzl/uf'u 

 

,3 ((14 Fay/1'48



 

21', 

 

 

 

 

 

 


31.: . MN I i 5? 
314 3390? gx?? ??rst: 1300?. 3 LI

0 wib? 
few I 7 2/ 

 r" 

I-

ir's r41 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

35. .3213 
5.32.4.3. 

 

..I.

 
 
   

- .
L. I.

 

 

 . . .. . .. . . . . . .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. . 

. 

14.1 41.1.1 
. 



.. .22.. 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



.rquUIer-RX

. .13  irL.
I. ..

Em
. . .ij,



han??dra?.11.
AI




 

 

 

 

