School Board Meeting
Superintendent?s Report

May 14, 2019





2

Calendar
• After 5 months of negotiations, Coalition of Unions (DFT included) verbally agreed on the calendar that was
approved by the School Board last month. After two committee meetings and the Board Meeting, no DFT
opposition.
• After BAM opposition (board meeting and media engagement), DFT signaled that calendar would not be
approved for DFT membership vote. Imposing the new calendar would violate the collective bargaining
agreement and tentative agreement. District unwilling to do that. Planning for summer training and clarity on
next year’s calendar is needed for parents and employees. Calendar will revert to last year’s calendar based
on tentative agreement. Time to move on.

• This means school starts after Labor Day, no recognition of full Muslim holiday, 5 fewer paid PD days, and full
mid-winter break.
• PD Day Difference and Impact: At Step 15, for instance, the daily rate is $70,000/186, or $376.34. $376.34 x 5
days of professional development is $1,881.72. $26.01 is the PD hourly rate for all teachers, regardless of
steps (years of experience). $156.06 in this case a day. For clarity, this was not the District’s only
recommendation to increase teacher pay under the 3rd year bargaining offer.
2

 3

Immediate allocation of funds for upgrades
to deteriorating school buildings
• The District does not receive any funding specifically for facilities.
• We allocated ~$10M from our fund balance for facility projects this year.
• District needs $500M now to address all facility needs, $1.4B in four years
with accumulating deferred maintenance cost.
• District will engage the greater community after school starts in the Fall on a
comprehensive, long-term and sustainable facility plan. This will include
right sizing the district with new schools and upgrades.
• District currently working with state and city officials to secure borrowing
beyond current state limit for future planning.
• Please direct your frustration at state leadership regarding this issue.
3

 4

20% raise for every step to achieve parity with
other districts – NO MERIT PAY!
• Merit pay is required by law. Our plan would focus on growth, not
proficiency. This would not be the only way we have proposed to
increase teacher salaries. Why are we afraid to recognize exceptional
performance if measure focuses on growth and student attendance?
• Of the districts named in the teacher salary inequity, there is a $30M
difference in revenue between DPSCD and the other districts. Top
three yield a $130M difference.
• Please advocate for equity and flexibility funding changes in DC and
Lansing.
• We agree with you! Detroit teachers should be highest paid!
4

 5

Reduce class size at every grade level!
• We have reduced class size. Decreasing class size more requires being
fully staffed and increases in revenue (funding) to add more teacher
positions to schools.

5

 6

Freedom for teachers to plan and make our own
curriculum decisions!
• Over 100 teachers participated in curriculum change
recommendations and others developed the curriculum guides.
• In the vacuum of strong district leadership with curriculum decisions
under emergency management, teachers did have near complete
freedom and student performance suffered.
• Although new curriculum is more challenging and needs refinement,
many teachers appreciate the curriculum changes.
• Student achievement is improving.
• Most importantly, children appreciate the curriculum changes signaled
through their voice in surveys about engagement.
6

 7

End the harassment of teachers by administrators –
restore due process for teachers!
• By law, teachers receive due process. Without due process, through appeals,
terminations and discipline would be reserved.
• The District will continue to pursue disciplinary action (including
termination, if necessary) after investigations if children are abused, parents
are repeatedly disrespected/disregarded, poor instruction is persistent,
and/or teachers are excessively absent. Teachers demand more of their
professional, parents demand more from our district, and we are committed
to our core values even when it is difficult. This is what change looks like—
increased accountability.
• We recommend that if someone is asked to advocate on the behalf of an
employee who is being terminated that one asks to see the actual
disciplinary report from the employee. Please do not rely on just the
employee’s account of the incident.
7

 8

No A-F rankings of schools!
• Outside entities have been grading our schools for years. This will
inevitably continue to happen without our voice.
• We need greater accountability and clear metrics to measure
improvement through the rebuilding process. All organizations that are
successful embrace this culture of performance.
• This is an opportunity to set our own accountability system (and
include city charter schools) with a focus on growth, not proficiency
while telling our own story.
• If we control for student attendance and focus on growth, what are we
afraid of if we are paid by our community to raise student
achievement? Why else do we do what we do?
8

 9

No principal changes!
• 30 principal changes have occurred over the last two years. No new principals came from Florida.
• Expecting 18 principal changes by the Fall (combination of resignations, retirements, reassignments).
Announcement was to be transparent with changes upfront (before the summer) and ensure transition
before active staffing occurs.
• Changes cannot be defined in a “one size fits all” scenario. All were voluntary based on decision of the
principal.
• Faculties all engaged as of today regarding the changes. Interviewing candidates nationally and locally
throughout the year. Focus on track record of improvement in urban core, most are Detroiters wishing to
return to the city and the District. Many current APs developed over the past year to become principals.

• All open principal positions have been posted. Interviews have occurred and will continue occurring.
• Meet and greets will occur with faculty and parents when new principals named.
• All new principals will be named by June 1st or July 1st at the latest.
9

  

We Cannot have Change without Changes

A
DETROIT 




sh??
DETROIT
PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Fine and Performing Arts Plan

 

Students Rise. We All Rise.

12

Overview

As a district we have expanded Arts from the
2017-2018 school year to the 2018-2019
school year.
High schools have increased from 44 to 54 Arts
programs and K-8 offerings have increased
from 49 programs to 112.

  

Overview

PUBLIC SCHOOLS

COMMUNITY DISTRICT

HIGH SCHOOL ARTS OFFERINGS

 

Sehee-l 1 I"eer Bend}r their De nee Fir. Art Theet re He. ef Pregrems
Strings Offered
1111113 11] 15 3 
21113-19 1'.Ir El' 9 15 54
K-S ARTS OFFERINGS
Sehee-l 1 I"eer Bend! their De nee Fir. Art Theet re He. ef Pregrems
String I?Jffered
2111113 15 1-4 3 1'.Ir 49

29 13 53 112

 

14

Areas of Focus

CLASSES and PROGRAMS: Continue to develop new
classes/programs while strengthening and sustaining
existing classes/programs.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT: Provide current
creative standards-based learning opportunities for
teachers and coaches.
MARKETING & AWARENESS: Expand the District’s
art brand by raising local, state, and national profiles
of the arts department

 15

Classes and Programs

• Develop new Classes and Programs in K-8 Schools
by maintaining and utilizing current resources.
• Rebuild the Tier 1 Arts-intensive programs at
Spain, King, Ellington and Brenda Scott to align
with and feed into Detroit School of Arts (DSA).
• Recruit and retain quality talent by expanding Arts
offering across all high schools.

 16

Professional Development

• Provide current, standards-based, learning opportunities
through the creation of a new curriculum with national
alignment.
• Create professional learning cohorts for teacher development.
• Partner with local Arts partners and universities to offer
development activities including coursework, master classes,
etc.
• Recognize district Arts teachers who are masters in their craft
to develop curriculum and professional support for colleagues.

 17

Marketing and Awareness

• Expand district profile by presenting, participating in and
collaborating with professional Arts organizations and
partners.

• Organize and present events that showcase the work of
Arts students and teachers.
• Increase availability of information about Arts programs
through a district-wide Arts calendar of district and schoolbased events.

        
 
  
  

s3??
DETROIT
PUBLIC SCHOOLS

DSA PATHWAYS
Initiative

Strategic Outline

Students Rise. We All Rise.

19
19

DSA Pathways Strategic Categories
Program Structure
& Staffing

Community
Partnerships

Facilities &
Equipment

Feeder Pattern
Enhancement

19

 20

DSA Pathways Initiative
DSA Pathways Strategic Categories
Program Structure
& Staffing
Essential to the success of a top-quality arts-focused high school is a program structure and staffing model
which supports both academic achievement and artistic mastery.

Expected Key Actions
• Expand DSA Majors to include Literary Arts and fully-staffed Theater and Visual Arts Majors
• Upgrade Staffing to ensure managers for facilities and a minimum of two full-time teachers per Artistic
Discipline Major
• Extend School Day to 4:40pm

• Add Cross-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary course offerings

 21

DSA Pathways Initiative
DSA Pathways Strategic Categories
Community
Partnerships
Detroit has a competitive advantage on most cities in the nation because of its deep and prolific artistic
heritage. Teachers and Principals at DSA and its feeder schools have welcomed collaboration with the Detroit
arts community and many have had extended partnerships with arts organizations to enhance the depth and
diversity of the arts experiences they offer their students. These partnerships often times were lost once a
staff member left the school/district. The long term solution is to formalize these partnerships with Central
Office to ensure stability and consistency.
Expected Key Actions

• Formalize partnerships with 23 acclaimed higher education, large cultural and small grassroots arts
institutions, who have extensive track-records for supporting DPSCD teachers and students
• Utilize the extensive community reach of the partners in coordination with DSA’s unparalleled facilities and
location to establish DSA as a Detroit Youth Arts Hub

• Pursue “Phase Two” funding opportunities for multi—partner initiatives, such as a “Private Lesson
Consortium”

 22
22

DSA PATHWAYS PARTNERS
• The Carr Center
•
• College for Creative
•
Studies
•
• Detroit Institute of Arts
• Detroit Institute of
•
Music Education (DIME)
• Detroit Jazz Festival
•
• Detroit Public Theatre
•
• Detroit Symphony
Orchestra
•
• Eisenhower Dance
•
Detroit
•

Heritage Works
InsideOut Literary Arts
Michigan Opera
Theatre
Michigan State
University
Mosaic Youth Theatre
of Detroit
The Motown Museum
Music Hall
Pewabic Pottery
Shakespeare in Detroit

•
•
•
•

Sphinx Organization
Stratford Festival
University of Michigan
University Musical
Society (UMS)
• Wayne State University
• Y Arts
• The Detroit Creativity
Project
•

22

 23

DSA Pathways Initiative
DSA Pathways Strategic Categories
Facilities & Equipment
A great strength of DSA is its impressive facility in the heart of Midtown. At the time it was built, it was the
most ambitious School of the Arts building project in the nation. Unfortunately, since inception, much of the
facility has been under-utilized. The unparalleled quality of the building’s design does not enhance student
education if the building is in disrepair and equipment is broken or outdated. A comprehensive focus is needed
to ensure that students and staff have full, safe and effective use of the spaces and equipment.

Expected Key Actions
• Initiate repairs and upgrades to the building’s performing space

• Initiate repairs and upgrades in the building’s digital media spaces
• Purchase and upgrade arts equipment
• Repair and acquire sufficient musical instruments for DSA and Feeder School instrumental music students

 24

DSA Pathways Initiative
DSA Pathways Strategic Categories
Feeder Pattern
Enhancement
Duke Ellington, John R King and Spain Elementary have been designated as feeders to DSA. Add Brenda Scott
for eastside representation. In the past, as arts-specialized middle schools spread throughout the city, they
were the ideal schools to act as pipelines for prospective DSA students. Now, as neighborhood K-8 schools,
there is a need for “Middle School Conservatories” at each school in order to rebuild a robust feeder pattern to
ensure sustained success.
Expected Key Actions
• Create Middle School Conservatories in each feeder school which students from throughout the Detroit area
can enter in 6th grade through audition/application
• Introduce theatre to the Feeder schools through ‘All-School Musical Theatre’ productions
• Focus intentionally on finding opportunities to connect Middle School Conservatory students and teachers at
the feeder schools with DSA students and staff throughout the year

 25

Update on Mental Health Focus
• Partnering with NYU and Dr. Kirkland (speaker at Cobo for PD Day) to conduct analysis of
equity needs based on race
• Conducting a mental health survey with employees to establish need and structure for a
scaled reform and support plan districtwide. This will be done through the University of
Michigan’s TRAILS program.
• Through a Department of Mental Health grant, we will be posting and hiring an individual
to lead our mental health system development work. In addition, we will begin to provide
mental health detection training districtwide through paid participant training.
• Writing grants to receive funding to scale implementation of a feeder pattern concept
model for wraparound services. This would place resources and services to address
mental health challenges for families, students, and employees at the school level, likely a
high school, for the entire feeder pattern. We are considering Cody High School and its
feeder pattern as the first feeder pattern location for the initiative. Grant funding would
allow us to bring the concept to other feeder patterns.

25

 