                         REPORT

700 Seward Renovation
April 22, 2019
Ms. Jennifer Ross, Historic Specialist
City of Detroit, Planning & Development Department
2 Woodward Avenue, Suite 808
Detroit, MI 48226
Re:

700 Seward Renovation

Ms. Ross,
We respectfully submit this enclosed description of the 700 Seward Renovation project to the City of
Detroit Historic District Commission for review.
Project Description
The 700 Seward building and site was purchased about 1 year ago to renovate and update much of the
building to accommodate new residents. The building was approximately 60% occupied, with some units
needing extensive repair and the first floor is vacant except for transitions to the upper floor uses. The
new Owner purchased the property to renovate units, reconfigure some of the units, and create first floor
amenities to respond to the residents of the building and neighborhood.
This project is applying for the Federal Historic Preservation Tax Incentive with Kristine Kidorf as the lead
consultant preparing the tax credit applications to submit to the State Historic Preservation Office.
The existing building is a 7-story apartment building constructed in 1926 and designed by Albert Kahn. It
is a poured-in-place concrete structure of floor slab, columns and integrated beams and joists. The roof
is also concrete. The exterior façade is of brick and limestone veneer colonial in nature with collegiate
gothic detailing. There are projecting bay windows of 7 stories which currently have a plank board siding
covering the original stucco siding. The existing windows are replacement windows of the early 2000’s of
white aluminum. The doors are generally original solid core wood, painted. The building has a parking
structure addition attached to the original structure on the west side, adjacent to the parking lot. The
parking structure is all reinforced concrete. There is a small wood framed colonial connector addition on
the west side which bridges between the parking structure and the apartment building. There is also a
one-story addition on the east side of the building, added in the 1960’s to enlarge the kitchen. The façade
of the kitchen addition is of stucco and is quite plain.
The site has very little unoccupied space. The front two main building wings are close to the sidewalk
with raised planter up against the building and bridging to the sidewalk. The east side is mostly up
against the property lines with only a few feet of a walkway or grass area. The west side is all parking lot.
There is wrought iron fencing around the parking lot, and between the two wings. Between the wings is a
courtyard with a concrete path that connects the front entrance of the building to the street. The majority
of the courtyard is currently closed off by fencing making it inaccessible from the street. The rear of the
building faces the alley and is primarily utilitarian space with some parking.

1

 REPORT

700 Seward Renovation
The original drawings by the office of Albert Kahn and Associates are available and have been used for
reference with the proposed changes of the project.
Exterior
• The windows will remain as is, with minor repair.
• The penthouse will get new windows and doors to be fashioned after the original doors based on
the Albert Kahn drawings.
• The brick will not be cleaned. Brick masonry will be replaced where required of existing broken
or spalled brick. New brick will match the existing brick.
• All masonry will be pointed with mortar to match the existing adjacent in color and texture.
• The bay window siding will be removed, and new stucco will be installed matching the original
drawings.
• The parapet top cap of existing limestone will be removed, and existing limestone will be reinstalled with new limestone to match to replace broken top caps.
• The limestone decorative balustrades at the top of the bays will be removed and re-installed with
new limestone balusters to replace broken or missing balusters.
• The existing HVAC units located under most large bay windows will be replaced. The new louvers
will be light gray metal to blend with the new stucco exterior.
• New HVAC unit openings and louvers are proposed for the rear of the building in one vertical
column under an existing window. These openings are in the brick masonry, so the louver will be
a reddish-brown to be close in color to the adjacent brick masonry.
The parking structure will be repaired with concrete to match the adjacent concrete in its original color
and texture to match. Repairs are primarily structural in nature and will not affect the appearance of the
structure.
A new opening will be installed in the rear of the building to accommodate trash removal from the
building. The opening will remove an existing door and window. The opening will have a roll-down
electric door in a dark reddish-brown color. There will be a truck dock like access to the trash room, set
above grade at the existing floor level.
A new addition will be constructed of the colonial wood framed bridge between the concrete parking
structure and the original building. The upper portion will connect to the entrance vestibule of the
building from the parking garage. Two windows on the west façade of the original building are proposed
to be bricked in, with a 1” setback in the original opening. The small colonial addition will be reconfigured
to allow for a spacious vestibule for security access into the building.
There will be a new roof of white EPDM membrane.
Site
The parking lot will be redone, and slightly reconfigured. Handicapped parking spaces will be added near
the entrance with a low slope no-curb transition from the parking lot to the main entrance doors. We are
proposing a new sidewalk along the west side of the building separating the parking lot from the building.
We are also proposing the sidewalk have a pedestrian gate access to the front and street sidewalk of the
building. The parking layout has changed slightly to accommodate as many parking spaces as possible.

2

 REPORT

700 Seward Renovation
On the east side of the building the walkway will remain, and the area along the east will become a fenced
area for pets, and egress access to the front and alley.
The front of the building will open up to accommodate proposed retail and café amenities proposed for
the first floor of the building. A new stair and ramp configuration is proposed for handicapped
accessibility to the retail and the front entrance. The ramp will be of concrete with low planters along the
sides. Stair access is also provided at the front of the building to access directly to the plaza space
adjacent to the building wings. Simple black metal railings are proposed to align with stair accessibility.
The raised portion of the plaza, which is existing, is proposed to be a mix of plain concrete and stained
concrete in a striped pattern. Planter areas are also proposed within the plaza area. In the center
facades of each wing are existing concrete stairs to remain, which provide direct access to the existing
doorways of original retail spaces planned for the building. Midway in the courtyard are projecting wing
walls with decorative light fixtures, to remain. Between the wing walls and the front entrance will be a
more park-like setting with a slightly reconfigured walkway with a few black wrought iron benches, and
Locust trees, set among low level groundcover and perennial landscape plantings.
Interior
The first-floor main spaces of historic character will not be altered. The first-floor retail spaces, which
have been altered many times will again be reconfigured to respond to the changing nature of retail in
this neighborhood. Some of the back-of house spaces will also be reconfigured to accommodate the
current lifestyles of the proposed residents. An office and concierge space is proposed with a large mail
room and package delivery room. Bicycle storage space in the building and in the adjacent parking
structure is proposed.
The resident apartment floors will be renovated. The common spaces of corridors and elevator lobbies
will receive new finishes in their original configuration. All doors and openings will remain and be per
original configuration of door and transom, with trim and base moldings to match the original profiles.
The units will be slightly reconfigured to accommodate updated amenities of laundry, kitchens and
bathrooms. The historic character of the spaces will be intact, being reviewed closely by the State
Historic Preservation Office. Floor finishes will be similar to historic common finishes of hard surfaces in
the main spaces, carpeting in the bedrooms, and tile in the bathrooms.

We hope this project description meets with your review and approval. Should you have any comments
please feel free to request any additional materials to inform your decision. We are happy to help move
this project along.

Thank you,
Brian V. Hurttienne, Principal
Christian Hurttienne Architects
2111 Woodward Avenue, Suite 201
Detroit, MI

3

 