Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System held Wednesday, January 23, 2013 at the hour of 10:00 A.M., at 1900 West Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Muñoz called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH and Director Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (2)

Present
Telephonically: Gerald Bauman (non-Director Member)
Absent:

Director Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD (1)

Chairman Muñoz stated that Gerald Bauman was unable to be physically present, but would like to
participate in the meeting telephonically.
Director Wiese, seconded by Chairman Muñoz, moved to allow Gerald Bauman
to participate in this meeting telephonically. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Mr. Bauman indicated his presence telephonically.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – System Chief Compliance and
Privacy Officer
John Cookinham – System Chief Financial Officer
Scott Ellis - System Information Security Officer
Tim Heinrich – McGladrey & Pullen, LLP
Pat Kitchen – McGladrey & Pullen, LLP

II.

Natasha Lafayette-Jones – Director of Health
Information Management
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Thomas Schroeder – System Director of Internal
Audit
Diane Willard – Compliance Officer

Public Speakers
Chairman Muñoz asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

**Report from System Corporate Compliance Officer (Attachment #1)
A. Activity Report
Cathy Bodnar, System Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer, presented her report containing the fiscal
year-end Corporate Compliance Report on Reactive Issues, status update on proactive Compliance work plan
projects, and update on accounting of disclosures and Conflict of Interest Policy. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.
Page 1 of 46

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Audit and Compliance Committee
Wednesday, January 23, 2013
Page 2

III.

**Report from System Corporate Compliance Officer (continued)
The fiscal year-end Corporate Compliance Report on Reactive Issues included information on the following
subjects: Reactive Issue Count; FY2012 Issue County by Category; Fiscal Year Comparison; and Status
Report of Issues.
Included in the update on proactive Compliance work projects was information on the following subjects:
Compliance Education; Monitoring and Auditing Activity; Monitoring Professional Coding; Professional
Coding Statistics; and Monitoring Facility/Technical Coding.
Chairman Muñoz inquired further regarding the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA)-related proactive issues, as they relate to security and access measures. Ms. Bodnar stated that
they are seeing more of those that are related to electronic access; she added that Corporate Compliance and
Information Technology work closely on these matters.
Scott Ellis, System Information Security Officer, provided additional information regarding ongoing
activities to review and strengthen security measures and access controls. He stated that there are a number
of things that are in the works right now to better align the System’s security program with industry practices
and standards. There are a number of projects or improvements that are in the works that are purchasebased, that have been outstanding for the last couple of years – there is a hope that in this fiscal year, funding
will be secured for these. Mr. Ellis indicated that he has prepared a complete presentation that demonstrates
what it will take to get the System’s security program to where it needs to be. Chairman Muñoz requested
that this presentation be made at the next Committee Meeting.
With regard to the information provided on disclosures and the Conflict of Interest Policy, Ms. Bodnar noted
that the survey tool for the annual Conflict of Interest Questionnaire will be rolled out in February to those
individuals with decision-making capacity as part of their role. She noted that it will somewhat overlap the
Statement of Economic Interest that the County requires to be completed; she added that the Conflict of
Interest Questionnaire does not take the place of the County’s form – both forms are required to be
completed annually. She indicated that she would provide a brief update on the subject to the full Board of
Directors at the meeting on February 1, 2013.
Diane Willard, Compliance Officer, reviewed some of the information provided regarding monitoring and
auditing activities.
During the discussion of the information regarding monitoring of coding, a question arose regarding the
differences between professional fee coding and facility/technical fee coding. For professional fees, coding
is performed and monitored by staff from McKesson, who is an external vendor. For facility/technical
coding, this is performed internally; their monitoring work has been contracted out to another external
vendor.
In response to a question regarding whether the System is looking to monitor coders for facility/technical
coding, similar to McKesson’s practices, Natasha Lafayette-Jones, Director of Health Information
Management (HIM), responded affirmatively. She indicated that what is in place with the external vendor is
the start phase, which began with the review of the Emergency Room records (as reflected in the report on
page 14). The goal for the coding area is to have monitoring performed quarterly through a retrospective
review; the long-term goal is to move to concurrent reviews. Chairman Muñoz requested that a report with
an update and additional information be provided at the next Committee Meeting. Ms. Lafayette-Jones
responded that the external monitor is currently working on reviewing the inpatient accounts from that same
time period; she will present that information at the next meeting of the Committee.
Page 2 of 46

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Audit and Compliance Committee
Wednesday, January 23, 2013
Page 3

IV.

**Report from System Director of Internal Audit (Attachment #2)
A. Activity Report
Tom Schroeder, System Director of Internal Audit, provided an overview of the 2013 Proposed Internal
Audit Plan. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Update from McGladrey & Pullen, LLP on FY2012 Audit activities (Attachment #3)
The following representatives from McGladrey & Pullen, LLP, provided an update on activities relating to
the FY2012 Audit activities: Pat Kitchen, Partner; and Tim Heinrichs, Director. The Committee
reviewed and discussed the information.
Information reviewed in their update included the following: Required Communications Letter; Audit
Approach and Plan; Significant Risk/Focus Areas; Audit Timetable; and Audit Progress.
Chairman Muñoz stated that last year’s audit was completed by May 31st; he inquired whether this year’s
audit is expected to be completed in the same timeframe. Mr. Heinrich responded affirmatively.

VI.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, September 11, 2012
Director Wiese, seconded by Chairman Muñoz, moved to accept the minutes of the Audit
and Compliance Committee Meeting of September 11, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections VI and VII

VII. Closed Session Items
A. **Report from System Corporate Compliance Officer
B. **Report from System Director of Internal Audit
C. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Director Wiese, seconded by Chairman Muñoz , moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public
body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(28), regarding “meetings between
internal or external auditors and governmental audit committees, finance committees, and
their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal control weaknesses, identification
of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of the United States of
America.” THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 3 of 46

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Audit and Compliance Committee
Wednesday, January 23, 2013
Page 4

VII. Closed Session Items (continued)
Chairman Muñoz declared that the closed session was adjourned.
reconvened into regular session.

The Committee

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Muñoz declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 4 of 46

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
January 23, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 5 of 46

 Corporate Compliance
Report

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC
Chief Compliance Privacy Officer

January 23, 2013

 

0" COOK COUNTY HEALTH
?2 8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM



 

 

Page 6 of 46

Meeting Objectives


To file the fiscal year-end Corporate Compliance
report on reactive issues.



To communicate the status of proactive compliance
work p
plan p
projects.
j

2
Page 7 of 46

 Reactive Issue Count
Fiscal Year to Fiscal Year Comparison

367

242
187

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

3
Page 8 of 46

 FY 2012 Issue Count by Category
367 Issues Opened in Fiscal Year 2012

Accurate Books
5%

Conflict of Interest
8%

False Claims
5%

HIPAA
46%

Political
1%
Fraud
3%
Other
21%

HR
10%

Actual Counts
Privacyy ((HIPAA))

4

169 Accurate Books

21

Theft

Human Resources 35 False Claims

20

Political Activity 3

Conflict of Interest

11

Other

29 HC Fraud

Page 9 of 46

4
75

 Fiscal Year Comparison
FY 2012

FY 12
169 Issues

FY 11
106 Issues

FY 10
64 Issues

FY 2011

FY 2010

46%

44%

34%

HIPAA

HR

COI

Accurate HC Fraud
Books

Patient Privacy, Confidentiality and Security are
consistently
i t tl top
t iissues; C
Corporate
t C
Compliance
li
addresses on an ongoing basis.

5
Page 10 of 46

False
Claims

Political

Other

 Status Report of Issues
Of the 367 reactive issues brought forth in FY 2012, 27 issues remained
open at close of the fiscal year (this shall be carried over in FY 2013).
2013)

27
Open Issues

340 or 93%

269

Managed Internally
Partnered with Another Area
Referred to Other Areas

Resolved
Issues

55

16

Of the 340 resolved issues, 16% or
55 issues were referred outside of
Corporate Compliance.
Compliance
6
Page 11 of 46

 Work Plan Status (Proactive)
FY 2012 Goals - Complete
1) Serve as a resource to all our patients, our staff, and the public at
large.
2) Continue to investigate and resolve complaints brought to the
attention of the Program.
3) Continue to develop policies and work with operations to promote
compliance.
compliance
4) Work closely with operational leadership to improve compliance
culture within the organization.
5) P
Partner
t
with
ith operations
ti
tto iimplement
l
t solutions
l ti
aimed
i d att
identifying and resolving preventable risks.
6) Deploy system-wide annual compliance education using an
El
Electronic
i L
Learning
i M
Management S
System.
7
Page 12 of 46

 Compliance Education
Completion rate for Corporate
Compliance & HIPAA 2012
annual training is

98%
or
5 727 of 5
5,727
5,847
847
CCHHS employees

8
Page 13 of 46

 Work Plan

(continued)

FY 2012 Goals-In Process
7) Deploy system-wide conflict of interest data collection tool for
annual attestation and reporting changes throughout the year.

9
Page 14 of 46

 Work Plan

(continued)

FY 2012-In Process
8) C
Continue
ti
tto perform
f
proactive
ti auditing
diti and
d monitoring
it i ffor
healthcare services, in both professional and facility/technical
areas, patient privacy and confidentiality, and policy compliance.
At CCHHS coding includes two types professional and
facility/technical.
Definitions
Monitoring – a continual process to assess performance and adherence to
policies to assure or improve activity; usually managed through operations.
Auditing – a formal, disciplined methodology to evaluate a process; managed
independently of operations
operations.
Dual Goals
Monitoring and Auditing assesses operational effectiveness and provides an
organizational risk assessment.
10
Page 15 of 46

 Work Plan

(continued)

Monitoring and Auditing Activity
 Medical coding translates documentation found within the
medical record into numeric or alphanumeric designations.
 The designation is detailed to describe the symptom
symptom, disease
disease,
injury, and/or procedure.
Monitoring
g and Auditing
g is utilized to identify
y areas of strengths
g
and weaknesses by:
 Evaluating documentation in the medical for specificity, and
timeliness.
 Validating coding quality and accuracy based on
documentation within the medical record.
 Reviewing coding processes and work flow
flow.
11
Page 16 of 46

 Monitoring Professional Coding
Externally Performed by McKesson
 Retrospective
R t
ti reviews
i
are performed
f
d quarterly.
t l
 All staff performing CCHHS coding are reviewed.
 Thirty
y (30)
( ) patient records are selected.
 The records reviewed reflect a range of services.
 Performance is scored utilizing the following table:
Accuracy Levels
Minimum Standard

Scoring
CPT/Modifiers ICD-9-CM
95%

95%

Green
Yellow
Orange

95 - 100%
90 - 94.99%
85 - 89.99%

95 - 100%
90 - 94.99%
85 - 89.99%

Red

Below 85%

Below 85%

Remediation

Feedback on errors
Feedback; if no improvement in 3 quarters - corrective action plan.
Corrective action plan with customized training to address
weaknesses. Corrective actions become more focused with
increasing levels of monitoring until improvement.
Monitoring
o to g aall cod
coding.
g Co
Corrective
ect e act
action
o plan
p a with
t customized
custo ed ttraining
a g
to address weaknesses. If no improvement, removed from production.

12
Page 17 of 46

 Professional Coding Statistics
Coder

CPT/Modifiers

Quarter 3 - July - September 2012
ICD-9-CM
Action

1

97.7%

93.1%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

2

83 3%
83.3%

99 2%
99.2%

Remediation; 100% monitoring resulted in 90% score
score.

3

93.0%

95.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

4

93.0%

96.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

5

93.5%

99.2%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

6

90.0%

93.3%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

7

90.4%

97.3%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

8

100 0%
100.0%

98 0%
98.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

9

93.0%

99.6%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

10

100.0%

100.0%

NA

11

93.3%

99.2%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

12

86.7%

86.7%

Feedback; monitor during 4th quarter

13

43.3%

88.3%

Coder removed from production

14

93.3%

100.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

15

90.0%

95.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

16

90.0%

100.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

17

73.0%

85.0%

Remediation; 100% monitoring resulted in 90% score.

18

86.7%

96.7%

Feedback; monitor during 4th quarter

19

93.3%

100.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

20

96.7%

96.7%

Feedback; ongoing
g g monitoring
g

21

100.0%

96.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

22

50.0%

78.7%

Coder removed from production

23

64.0%

91.0%

Coder removed from production

24

50.0%

90.0%

Coder removed from production

25

60.0%

86.0%

Coder removed from production

26

96.8%

98.4%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

27

96.7%

100.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

28

95.5%

100.0%

Feedback; ongoing monitoring

13
Page 18 of 46

 Monitoring Facility/Technical Coding
Externally Performed by Vendor Reviewing CCHHS Coding Staff
 A random sample of 1,006 Emergency Room records were
reviewed.
 The sample assessed 3rd and 4th Quarter data for FY 2011
2011.
 The external vendor noted the industry benchmark for coding
accuracy to be 95%.
Facility/Technical Monitoring Statistics
Accuracy Levels
Industry Benchmark

Emergency Room Record

Principal Diagnosis

g
Scoring
E&M Level

Procedure

95%

95%

95%

76%

89%

88%

14
Page 19 of 46

 Work Plan

(continued)

FY 2012 Goals-Delayed
9) Implement System record retention policy and procedure.
Policy - complete in June 2012
Procedure - delayed
10) Publish and distribute updated Standards of Conduct.
Draft completed

15
Page 20 of 46

 Accoun?ng of Disclosures - Workforce

5
bisc'Losues
14;

poucv
- 42'

TRANSPARENCY

a

2013 - Cool Count, Health H-asp'rII-rls 

 

Welcome

Transparency is a crizical componer?ic to our mission as a poetic,
healzh provider. We are sieac'Fasrly dedicarecl :o serve our
cor'reuriizg, {his inclecles oer pro?essional and business aczi'i'izies. The
purpose onhis disclosure process is so ideoti?y activities that may crease
acceal conifers or have :he appearance of con-"lure and ir??pierrieo:
safeguards. Ger goal. is :o protec: the interesse and assecs o?
Cook. Coons; -leai:h and people who seek healch
services shrough our Syster", :he Cour-Ty o-?CooE-mhe Iaxpayers of (look
Comm}, and the a: large.

Logo

Filer ID

Password

 

 

Page 21 of 46

 

Category:
Current Ownership or Investment Interest (Self)
1. In calendar year 2012, did you have any Ownership or Investment Interest1 in an Organization2 that falls
into one of the following categories (check all that apply)?
An Organization2 that does business, or could potentially do business, with CCHHS?
An Organization2 that sponsors your research?
An Organization2 that is otherwise involved in the healthcare industry?
If CHECKED, then please identify:
 organization:
 interest:
 dollar amount:
 value of interest:
 terms of interest:
Category:
Current Ownership or Investment Interest (Immediate Family Members)
2. To the best of your knowledge, in calendar year 2012, did your Immediate Family Members3 have any
Ownership or Investment Interest1 in an Organization2 that falls into one of the following categories
(check all that apply)?
An Organization2 that does business, or could potentially do business, with CCHHS?
An Organization2 that sponsors their research?
An Organization2 that is otherwise involved in the healthcare industry?
If CHECKED, then please identify:
 your relationship to the family member:
 organization:
 interest:
 dollar amount:
 value of interest:
 terms of interest:
Category:
Future Ownership or Investment Interest (Self)
3. Do you plan to have any Ownership or Investment Interest1 in an Organization2 that falls into one of the
following categories (check all that apply)
An Organization2 that does business, or could potentially do business, with CCHHS?
An Organization2 that sponsors your research?
An Organization2 that is otherwise involved in the healthcare industry?
If CHECKED, then please identify:
 organization:
Category:
Future Ownership or Investment Interest (Immediate Family Members)
4. To the best of your knowledge, do you know of any future Ownership or Investment Interest1 by any of
your Immediate Family Members3 in an Organization2 that falls into one of the following categories
(check all that apply)?
An Organization2 that does business, or could potentially do business, with CCHHS?
An Organization2 that sponsors their research?
An Organization2 that is otherwise involved in the healthcare industry?
If CHECKED, then please identify:
 your relationship to the family member:
 organization:

Page 22 of 46

 Category:
Service on Boards of Directors and Other Fiduciary Relationships (Self)
5. In calendar year 2012, did you serve in a fiduciary capacity, such as a board member/director, officer, or
trustee, for any of the following (check all that apply):
An Organization2 that does business, or could potentially do business, with CCHHS?
An Organization2 that sponsors your research?
An Organization2 that is otherwise involved in the healthcare industry?
If CHECKED, please identify:
 Organization2
 Your position within the Organization2
Category:
Service on Boards of Directors and Other Fiduciary Relationships (Immediate Family Members)
6. In calendar year 2012, did any of your Immediate Family Members3 serve in a fiduciary capacity, such as
a board member/director, officer, or trustee, for any of the following (check all that apply):
An Organization2 that does business, or could potentially do business, with CCHHS?
An Organization2 that sponsors their research?
An Organization2 that is otherwise involved in the healthcare industry?
If CHECKED, please identify:
 your relationship to the family member
 Organization2
 their position within the Organization2
Category:
Compensated Activities/Uncompensated Activities Not-for-Profit (Self)
7. In calendar year 2012, did you engage in any academic and/or other professional activities such as
instructing or consulting, whether or not you received any Compensation4, for any academic institutions,
hospitals or medical centers, other government agencies, professional societies, foundations, or other
similar not-for-profit entities?
Yes
No
If YES, please list
 the not-for-profit Organization2
 your role
 the amount (payment for services, reimbursement of expenses, or value of in-kind benefits), if
any, received in calendar year 2012 from each.
Category:
Compensated Activities/Uncompensated Activities For-Profit (Self)
8. In calendar year 2012, did you engage in any industry activities such as instructing, consulting or
providing educational programs, whether or not you received any Compensation5, for any of the
following (check all that apply):
A for-profit Organization2 that does business, or could potentially do business, with CCHHS?
A for-profit Organization2 that sponsors your research?
A for-profit Organization2 that is otherwise involved in the healthcare industry?
If YES, please list
 the for-profit Organization2
 your role
 the amount (payment for services, reimbursement of expenses, or value of in-kind benefits), if
any, received in calendar year 2012 from each.

Page 23 of 46

 Category:
Royalty Payments and Inventor Share (Self)
9. In calendar year 2012, did you receive or have the right to receive royalty payments (other than
publication royalties) or future financial benefits for inventions or discoveries?
Yes
No
If YES, please list
 the Organization2
 an explanation
 the amount received in calendar year 2012 from each.
Participating in Purchasing Decisions (Self)

10. With respect to any Organizations2 disclosed in this questionnaire did you participate in or have any
influence regarding CCHHS purchases from the Organization2?
Yes
No
If YES, please list
 the Organization2
 provide an explanation of your involvement.
Receipt of Gifts5
11. In calendar year 2012, did you or any of your Immediate Family Members3 give or receive a gift5 from:
An Organization2 that does business, or could potentially do business, with CCHHS?
An Organization2 that sponsors your research?
An Organization2 that is otherwise involved in the healthcare industry?
If YES, please list
 the Organization2
 description of the gift for each
Research

12. In calendar year 2012, were you involved in the design, conduct, or reporting of research (e.g., principal
investigator, co-investigator, or any other member of a research project) that was sponsored by or
otherwise connected to any Organization2 disclosed in this questionnaire:
Yes
No
If YES, please indicate the following:
 sponsor name
 your role
 the exact title of the project,
 Institutional Review Board (IRB), the exact protocol, title and number (if applicable)
 Any additional details that will facilitate assessment of potential conflicts.

Page 24 of 46

 Research - Government

13. In calendar year 2012, if you were involved in the design, conduct, or reporting of research (e.g., principal
investigator, co-investigator, or any other member of a research project) sponsored by the U.S.
Department of Health & Human Services, the National Science Foundation, the American Heart
Association, or the American Cancer Society, did you appropriately disclose your significant financial
interests related to the research to an institutional review board (IRB)?
Yes
No
If NO, please provide an explanation.
Research – Conflict Management Plan

14. Are you under a current research conflict management plan?
Yes
No
If YES, please indicate the following:
 who placed you on the conflict management plan
 If you continue to follow the requirements described in the plan
 If there were changes pertaining to your conflict of interest in calendar year 2012 that required
or may require a modification of the plan.
 If you notified the assigning Organization2 of such changes.
Time Commitment

15. In calendar year 2012, in the aggregate, did you spend more than twenty percent (20%) of your
professional time engaged in:
a. Outside professional or commercial activities for which you received Compensation5?
Yes
No
If YES, please provide an explanation.
b. Non-compensated, external academic or other professional activities, including service to other
governmental agencies, on editorial boards, or for national/regional organizations, etc.?
Yes
No
If YES, please provide an explanation.
Other Relationships

16. Are you or is your Immediate Family Member3 an officer or director in any other Organization2 (which
you have not already disclosed above)?
Yes
No
If YES, please provide an explanation.
Other Activities

17. In calendar year 2012, did you engage in other outside activities, including Personal Relationships6, that
have not been covered by the above questions that may cause a potential or actual conflict of interest?
Yes
No
If YES, please provide an explanation.

Page 25 of 46

 Definitions
CCHHS is Cook County health and Hospitals System. CCHHS includes John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County, Provident Hospital of Cook County, Oak Forest Health Center, Ambulatory and Community
Health Network (ACHN), Ruth M. Rothstein Core Center, Cermak Health Services of Cook County in
either the Cook County Jail or the Temporary Juvenile Detention Center, or the Cook County
Department of Public Health.
1

Ownership or investment interest includes arrangements where you have (or plan to have) a direct or
indirect Ownership or Investment Interest in any organization. An interest comprised solely of publicly
traded securities or mutual funds is considered an Ownership or Investment Interest only if such interest
is valued at $5,000 or more.
2

Organization in this context, the term “Organization” is very broad. It includes any partnership,
corporation, limited liability corporation, unincorporated association, or other institution or
organization, corporate, industry, or any other entity, whether for-profit or not-for-profit.
3

Immediate Family Members includes your spouse, domestic partner, and any relative by blood,
marriage, or adoption. This would also include anyone living at the same residence or any person of
significant influence.

4

Compensation includes direct and indirect remuneration, in cash or in-kind, as well as personal loans.
Examples include (but are not limited to) the following: consulting fees, teaching/speaking fees, expert
witness fees, honoraria for sponsored training events and related reimbursement, marketing or
promotional support, and monies received for product development activities or participation on
advisory committees. "Indirect remuneration" includes situations where Compensation is made through
or to another Entity2 or individual (including through a business investment or an Immediate Family
Member3). For example, indirect Compensation would include payments from a company that receives
payment from another Entity2 for your professional services.
5

Gift: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or other tangible or
intangible item having monetary value including, but not limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria
for speaking engagements related to or attributable to a person’s status as a Covered Person.
6

Personal Relationship is a close personal or business connection with another individual of a potential
bias-producing nature, i.e. a relationship that could cause the person to place the interests of that
individual above the interests of Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Page 26 of 46

 Category:

SYSTEM-WIDE POLICY
Subject:
ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS

Page

Policy #:

Title:

Approval Date:

Posting Date:

CONFLICT OF INTEREST ( COI )

07/13/2011

08/25/2011

1 of 5

00.02.00

PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to help ensure that the business and professional activities of the Cook County
Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS) are conducted free of actual conflicts of interest, or the appearance of any
conflicts of interest, and to protect the interests of CCHHS when it is contemplating entering into a transaction or
arrangement.
AFFECTED AREAS
This policy affects Covered Persons within all CCHHS affiliated operating units including John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County, Provident Hospital of Cook County; Oak Forest Health Center, Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center; Ambulatory & Community Health Network, Cermak Health Services of Cook County, and Cook
County Department of Public Health.
DEFINITIONS
A. Conflict of Interest: A conflict of interest may exist when:
a. a Covered Person, or his/her Personal Relationships, is doing business with CCHHS or any
of its operating units;
b. a Covered Person, or his/her Personal Relationships, has an interest in any issue, item,
matter or transaction that involves CCHHS or its operating units or that is under
consideration by CCHHS or its operating units;
c. a Covered Person, or his/her Personal Relationships, is in a position to influence business
or other decisions including patient access or care of CCHHS in ways that could lead or
appear to lead to the personal gain or advantage of such person, his/her Personal
Relationships, or outside entities.
B. Covered Person: All officers, directors, Board committee members, advisory councils, employees,
members of the CCHHS medical staff or house staff, researchers, students and contractor personnel
carrying out the business or professional activities of the CCHHS.
C. Doing Business:
Having or negotiating the creation of a contract or agreement, whether verbally or in
writing, that involves the commitment of (either in a single transaction or a combination of transactions)
$2,500 or more of CCHHS funds or funds controlled by CCHHS.
D. Gift: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or other tangible or
intangible item having monetary value including, but not limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria
for speaking engagements related to or attributable to a person’s status as a Covered Person.
E. Interest: Any legal or equitable economic interest (whether or not subject to an encumbrance or a
condition), activity, arrangement, or relationship, which is owned or held, either directly or indirectly, by a
Covered Person (or through a Personal Relationship or Person of Influence) with any entity with which
CCHHS has or may in the future be doing business. The term “Interest” includes, but is not limited to the
following examples,
Page 27 of 46

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

2 of 5

00.02.00

a. An ownership interest; serving as a member, officer, director, committee member, partner, paid
consultant, or employee of the same or a related business, or having a financial interest in the same
or a related business;
b. Participation in any outside activity that could interfere significantly with the Covered Person’s work
time obligation;
c. Receipt of fees, or other compensation or remuneration from an entity as a result of professional
services, consulting, speaking engagements, royalties, patents, copyrights, or other intellectual
property rights.
F. Personal Relationships: Covered Person’s spouse, children, parents, siblings, grandchildren, and their
spouses; the Covered Person’s spouse’s parents, siblings, children, grandchildren, and their spouses;
and any Person of Influence.
G. Person of Influence: a person with a close personal or business connection with a Covered Person who
would likely influence the decisions of the Covered Person.
POLICY
Covered Persons shall not be involved in any situation or circumstance that would cause the Covered Person to
have a conflict of interest. This prohibition includes the Personal Relationships of the Covered Person.
No Covered Person shall accept any gift from any entity, or an employee, contractor or agent of an entity, with
which CCHHS or its operating units is doing business or with which CCHHS has done business within the past
three years.
Covered Persons are responsible for addressing conflicts of interest, whether actual or those that have the
appearance of a conflict of interest. Covered Persons must comply with the provisions of this policy.
The CCHHS Conflicts of Interest Policy covers the following areas:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Conflicts of Interest in Day-to-Day Business Operations of CCHHS Affiliates
Conflicts of Interest in Patient Care
Conflicts of Interest in Research Activities
Conflicts of Interest in Educational Activities

All Covered Persons shall preserve and protect the interests and assets of CCHHS. The business and
professional activities of CCHHS must be conducted in the best interests of CCHHS, without favoritism or
preference based on personal considerations. Accordingly, each Covered Person must avoid situations, which
may give rise to a Conflict of Interest or the appearance of a Conflict of Interest.
CCHHS has adopted a Standard of Conduct (Code of Ethical Conduct) that supplements the Cook County
Ethics Ordinance. This defines CCHHS' standards for ethical behavior by CCHHS Personnel in carrying out
CCHHS operations. Among other things, the Code of Ethical Conduct is designed to protect the integrity of
clinical decision-making. Patient care decisions must be based on the health care needs of the patient,
independent of compensation, financial arrangement or favor that may benefit the health care provider or
CCHHS.
Research activities at CCHHS must be carried out with the utmost integrity. All research activities must be
approved in advance by the Institutional Review Board of the Cook County Health and Hospital System and by
CCHHS management.
Page 28 of 46

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

3 of 5

00.02.00

Educational activities (including professional and public education) at CCHHS must be free from bias and carried
out in a manner that serves the educational component of CCHHS’ Mission and responsibilities as a public
health system, and not the personal interests of any Covered Person.
Duty to Disclose: Covered Persons have a duty to disclose the existence of a possible Conflict of Interest and all
material facts relating to the possible Conflict of Interest, as provided in this policy. No Covered Person who has
or may have a Conflict of Interest with respect to a transaction or decision shall participate in the transaction or
decision unless authorized to participate by Corporate Compliance.
PROCEDURE
A. The Conflict of Interest process for CCHHS, including Disclosure Statements and conflict resolution,
shall be coordinated by the System Corporate Compliance Office, in consultation with the Office of
General Counsel. Questions regarding the Conflict of Interest Policy should be directed to the Corporate
Compliance Office.
B. Required Reporters. The following Covered Persons are required to complete disclosure forms on an
annual basis:
1. Board of Directors members and committee members appointed by the Board
2. Management and individuals in leadership positions
3. Supply Chain Management personnel, members of committees charged with selection of
products or services to be purchased and anyone in a position to influence purchasing decisions
4. Any CCHHS personnel who have commitments or relationships with competing organizations
5. Any CCHHS personnel who have outside employment relationships with businesses that seek
to do business with CCHHS
6. Any CCHHS personnel who previously had a conflict identified.
C. Disclosure Statement (Conflict of Interest Disclosure Statement): Annually a Covered Person who is a
Required Reporter must accurately complete a Disclosure Statement and affirm that they: (i) have
received a copy of this Conflict of Interest Policy; (ii) have read and understand this Policy; and (iii) agree
to comply with this Policy. Covered Persons will submit the Disclosure of Interests Statement on a
timely basis to the CCHHS Corporate Compliance Office.
D. Duty to Update Disclosure Statement: It will be the continuing duty of each Covered Person who is sent
such a Disclosure Statement to advise the Chief Compliance Officer within 10 business days of the
occurrence of any event that would have been described in the COI Disclosure Statement had it
occurred or been known at the time the COI Disclosure Statement was originally completed.
E. Addressing a Potential Conflict of Interest:
1. If the Covered Person who may have a Conflict of Interest is a Board or Board Committee member
or a member of executive management, the Covered Person shall report the Conflict to the Chief
Compliance Officer. The Chief Compliance Officer, in consultation with the CCHHS Office of
General Counsel, will review the facts of the situation and make a recommendation to the Chief
Executive Officer (or his/her designee), or in the case of a Board member, the Chairman of the
Board (or his/her designee), as to whether a potential Conflict exists.
2. The CEO (or his/her designee), for those Covered Persons who are subject to his/her supervision,
Page 29 of 46

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

4 of 5

00.02.00

shall decide whether the potential conflict of interest that has been disclosed amounts to an actual
conflict of interest. If it is determined that an actual conflict of interest exists then the following
procedures shall be taken:
a. The CEO (or his/her designee), shall direct that the Covered Person refrain from participating in
the transaction or decision.
b. The CEO (or his/her designee), may impose additional safeguards concerning the transaction or
decision in order to protect CCHHS’ interests. These may include, without limitation, (i) appointing a
disinterested person or committee to oversee or review the proposed transaction or arrangement, or
(ii) deciding not to pursue the transaction or arrangement.
3. In the case of a Board member, the Chairman of the Board shall allow the Board member to disclose
the facts surrounding the potential conflict of interest to the Board of Directors in executive session if
he/she so desires. Thereafter, the Board member with the potential conflict shall leave the room
while the Board of Directors decides whether an actual conflict of interest exists. If it is determined
that an actual conflict of interest exists then the following procedures shall be taken:
a. The Chairman of the Board shall direct that the Board member refrain from participating in the
transaction or decision.
b. The Chairman of the Board may impose additional safeguards concerning the transaction or
decision in order to protect CCHHS’ interests. These may include, without limitation, (i) appointing a
disinterested person or committee to oversee or review the proposed transaction or arrangement, or
(ii) deciding not to pursue the transaction or arrangement.
F.

Complete and accurate records shall be maintained of all investigations and determinations under this
Policy.

POLICY UPDATE SCHEDULE
At least every three (3) years, or more often as appropriate.
REGULATORY REFERENCES
Cook County Ethics Ordinance; Section 2-578 (Conflicts of Interest)
Federal Sentencing Guidelines
Federal Anti-Kickback Statute (Stark)
National Institute of Health Guidance
American Medical Association Guidance
PhRMA Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals
OIG Self Disclosure Protocol
Physician Payment Sunshine Act
Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009
Joint Commission Standard LD.04.02.01
POLICY REFERENCES
CCHHS Standards of Conduct (Code of Ethical Conduct)

Page 30 of 46

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

5 of 5

00.02.00

POLICY LEAD

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC
CCHHS, Chief Compliance Officer

REVIEWERS

Audit & Compliance Steering Committee
Office of General Counsel

APPROVAL PARTIES

Terry Mason, MD
CCHHS, Interim Chief Executive Officer

Electronically Approved: July 13, 2011

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors
Approved June 7, 2011

REVIEW HISTORY
Written: June 6, 2011
Replaces: Oak Forest Hospital COI Policy January 2009

Page 31 of 46

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
January 23, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 32 of 46

 Internal Audit Report

January 23, 2013

 

Page 33 of 46

Objective
Review 2013 Proposed Internal Audit Plan
McGladreyy – Update
p
on Audit of CCHHS 2012 Financial Statements
Closed Session

2
Page 34 of 46

 d IInternal
t r l Audit
A dit Pl
2013 Pr
Proposed
Plan
• Pharmacy

• Grants

• Supply Chain

• IT General Controls

• Meaningful Use

• ICD 10 Project

• County Care

• Special Earnings

• Clinical Processes/Charge Capture

• Management Requests

3
Page 35 of 46

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
January 23, 2013

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 36 of 46

 Presentation to the
Audit and Compliance Committee
McGladrey LLP
January 23, 2013

Page 37 of 46
© 2012 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Discussion Outline
 Required Communications Letter
 Audit Approach and Plan
 Significant Risk/Focus Areas
 Audit Timetable
 Audit Progress

This communication is intended solely for the information and use of Audit and Compliance Committee of
Cook County Health and Hospitals System and is not intended to be and should not be used by anyone
Page 38 of 46
other than these specified parties.

1

© 2012 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Approach and Plan
 Risk-based audit approach

-

-

Identify fraud and control environment risk factors
Focus on areas that contribute to increased risk of material financial
statement misstatement

•
•
•
•

Key business cycles and processes
Significant judgments and estimates
Significant accounting policies
Material events and transactions

Preliminary risk assessments updated during and at the completion of
our audit

Page 39 of 46

2
© 2012 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Significant Risk/Focus Areas
 Significant risk areas

-

Net patient service revenue
Patient accounts receivable and related contractual and bad debt
allowances
Third-party reimbursement and related settlement assets and liabilities

 Focus areas where we will be relying on testing performed by the
County external audit team

-

Cash and investments
Capital assets
Self-insurance liabilities
Debt
Pension liabilities
Payroll expenses and liabilities
Property, sales and cigarette tax revenues
Page 40 of 46

3
© 2012 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Timetable
Task
Oct/Nov

Jan

Feb

Month
Mar

Apr

May

Audit planning and risk assessment
Jointly establish engagement goals and objectives
Assess risk, document, and evaluate internal controls
Meet with management to enhance understanding of business, financial, and operating
activities
Document audit plan and risk assessment
Develop schedule of requested assistance
Present audit plan to Audit and Compliance Committee

Preliminary audit work
Test internal controls
Document understanding of general computer controls
Perform existence testing of patient accounts receivable
Final audit work
County finalizes accounting records

Test year-end account balances
Perform final substantive analytical review procedures
Reporting
Review draft financial statements with CCHHS management
Provide preliminary draft financial statements to County
Present audit results and draft financial statements to Audit and Compliance Committee
Finalize financial statements and other reporting, including management letter

Page 41 of 46

4
© 2012 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Progress to Date
 Status of audit planning and preliminary work

-

Walk-throughs and internal control understanding documentation
areas nearing completion:

• Accounts payable/purchasing
• Treasury
• Payroll
• Capital assets
• Patient accounts receivable/revenue
 Final fieldwork will begin on February 25
 Key reporting dates

-

Draft financials available for review by management

-

Preliminary draft financials provided to County

•

•

March 29, 2013

April 5, 2013

Page 42 of 46

5
© 2012 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 McGladrey LLP is the U.S. member of the RSM International (“RSMI”) network of independent accounting, tax and
consulting firms. The member firms of RSMI collaborate to provide services to global clients, but are separate and
distinct legal entities which cannot obligate each other. Each member firm is responsible only for its own acts and
omissions, and not those of any other party.
McGladrey, the McGladrey signature, The McGladrey Classic logo, The power of being understood, Power comes
from being understood and Experience the power of being understood are trademarks of McGladrey LLP.
© 2012 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

McGladrey LLP
One South Wacker Drive,
Suite 800
Chicago, Illinois 60606
312.384.6000
www.mcgladrey.com

Page 43 of 46
© 2012 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 McGladrey LLP
One South Wacker Drive, Suite 800
Chicago, Illinois 60606
O 312.384.6000 F 312.634.3410
www.mcgladrey.com

January 23, 2013

Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
1900 West Polk Street
Chicago, Illinois 60612
Attention: Dr. Luis Munoz, Chairman
This letter is intended to communicate certain matters related to the planned scope and timing of our
audit of Cook County Health and Hospitals System's (CCHHS) financial statements as of and for the year
ended November 30, 2012.
Communication
Effective two-way communication between our Firm and the Audit and Compliance Committee is
important to understanding matters related to the audit and in developing a constructive working
relationship.
Your insights may assist us in understanding CCHHS and its environment, in identifying appropriate
sources of audit evidence, and in providing information about specific transactions or events. We will
discuss with you your oversight of the effectiveness of internal control and any areas where you request
additional procedures to be undertaken. We expect that you will timely communicate with us any matters
you consider relevant to the audit. Such matters might include strategic decisions that may significantly
affect the nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures, your suspicion or detection of fraud, or any
concerns you may have about the integrity or competence of senior management.
We will timely communicate to you any fraud involving senior management and other fraud that causes a
material misstatement of the financial statements, instances of noncompliance with laws and regulations
that come to our attention (unless they are clearly inconsequential), and disagreements with management
and other serious difficulties encountered in performing the audit. We will also communicate to you and to
management any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal control that become known to
us during the course of the audit. Other matters arising from the audit that are, in our professional
judgment, significant and relevant to you in your oversight of the financial reporting process will be
communicated to you in writing after the audit.
Independence
Our independence policies and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that our Firm
and its personnel comply with applicable professional independence standards. Our policies address
financial interests, business and family relationships, and non-audit services that may be thought to bear
on independence. For example, partners and professional employees of McGladrey LLP are restricted in
their ability to own a direct financial interest or a material indirect financial interest in a client or any
affiliates of a client. Also, if an immediate family member or close relative of a partner or professional
employee is employed by a client in a key position, the incident must be reported and resolved in
accordance with Firm policy. In addition, our policies restrict certain non-audit services that may be
provided by McGladrey LLP and require audit clients to accept certain responsibilities in connection with
the provision of permitted non-attest services.

Page 44 of 46

Member of the RSM International network of independent accounting, tax and consulting firms.

 Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
January 23, 2013
Page 2
The Audit Planning Process
Our audit approach places a strong emphasis on obtaining an understanding of how your business
functions. This enables us to identify key audit components and tailor our procedures to the unique
aspects of your business. The development of a specific audit plan will begin by meeting with you and
with management to obtain an understanding of your business objectives, strategies, risks, and
performance.
As part of obtaining an understanding of your business and its environment, we will obtain an
understanding of internal control. We will use this understanding to identify risks of material misstatement,
which will provide us with a basis for designing and implementing responses to the assessed risks of
material misstatement. We will also obtain an understanding of the users of the financial statements in
order to establish an overall materiality level for audit purposes. We will conduct formal discussions
among engagement team members to consider how and where your financial statements might be
susceptible to material misstatement due to fraud or error.
We will also use our understanding of internal controls to identify risks of material noncompliance, which
will provide us with a basis for designing and implementing responses to the assessed risks of material
noncompliance with laws, regulations, and provisions of agreements that have a material effect on the
financial statements. We will conduct formal discussions among engagement team members to consider
how and where your financial statements and compliance with applicable requirements might be
susceptible to material noncompliance due to fraud, error, or abuse.
The Concept of Materiality in Planning and Executing the Audit
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing the audit, evaluating the effect of
identified misstatements on the audit, and the effect of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial
statements, and in forming the opinion in our report. Our determination of materiality is a matter of
professional judgment and is affected by our perception of the financial information needs of users of the
financial statements. We establish performance materiality at an amount less than materiality for the
financial statements as a whole to allow for the risk of misstatements that may not be detected by the
audit. We use performance materiality for purposes of assessing the risks of material misstatement and
determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures. Our assessment of materiality
throughout the audit will be based on both quantitative and qualitative considerations. Because of the
interaction of quantitative and qualitative considerations, misstatements of a relatively small amount could
have a material effect on the current financial statements as well as financial statements of future periods.
We will accumulate misstatements identified during the audit, other than those that are clearly trivial. At
the end of the audit, we will inform you of all individual unrecorded misstatements aggregated by us in
connection with our evaluation of our audit test results. We will also accumulate information concerning
noncompliance during the audit and communicate information concerning noncompliance in accordance
with applicable provisions of Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the
United States.
Our Approach to Internal Control Relevant to the Audit
Our audit of the financial statements will include obtaining an understanding of internal control sufficient to
plan the audit and to determine the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures to be performed. An
audit is not designed to provide assurance on internal control or to identify significant deficiencies or
material weaknesses. Our review and understanding of CCHHS's internal control is not undertaken for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control.

Page 45 of 46

 Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
January 23, 2013
Page 3
We will issue a report on internal control related to the financial statements. This report describes the
scope of testing of internal control and the results of our tests of internal controls. Our report on internal
control will include any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the system of which we
become aware as a result of obtaining an understanding of internal control and performing tests of
internal control consistent with the requirements of the Government Auditing Standards issued by the
Comptroller General of the United States.
Using the Work of Internal Auditors
As part of our understanding of your business and its environment, we will obtain and document an
understanding of your internal audit function. We will read relevant internal audit reports issued during the
year to determine whether such reports indicate a source of potential error or fraud that would require a
response when designing our audit procedures. Because internal auditors are employees, they are not
independent and their work can never be substituted for the work of the external auditor. We may,
however, alter the nature, timing, and extent of our audit procedures based upon the results of the
internal auditor's work or use them to provide direct assistance to us during the performance of our audit.
Timing of the Audit
We have scheduled preliminary audit field work for February 2013 with final field work commencing the
week of February 25, 2013. Management's adherence to its closing schedule and timely completion of
information used by us in performance of the audit is essential to timely completion of the audit.
Closing
We will be pleased to respond to any questions you have about the foregoing. We appreciate the
opportunity to continue to be of service to Cook County Health and Hospitals System.
This communication is intended solely for the information and use of the Audit and Compliance
Committee and is not intended to be and should not be used by anyone other than these specified
parties.
McGladrey LLP

Patrick J. Kitchen
Partner

Page 46 of 46

 