Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, February 19, 2015 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W.
Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Velasquez called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Carmen Velasquez and Directors Emilie N. Junge and Ada Mary Gugenheim

Present
Telephonically: Board Chairman M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio)
Absent:

None (0)
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to allow Board Chairman
Hammock to participate in the meeting telephonically. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – General Counsel

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – Director of Internal Audit
John Jay Shannon, MD –Chief Executive Officer

\

II.

Public Speakers
Chairman Velasquez asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Director of Internal Audit – Information and Action Items
For information:
A.

Report from Internal Audit – review of information on CCHHS Internal Audit Function
(Attachment #1)

Tom Schroeder, Director of Internal Audit, provided an overview of the Report from Internal Audit. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
During the review of the information, Mr. Schroeder noted that activities will begin for the 2014 audit by the
external auditors in early March; he expects that representatives from McGladrey LLP will be present at the
March Committee Meeting to provide an overview of their plan and update on their activities.

Page 1 of 102

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, February 19, 2015
Page 2

III.

Director of Internal Audit – Information and Action Items (continued)
The Committee discussed the relationships and responsibilities between Internal Audit, Corporate Compliance
and the County’s Office of the Independent Inspector General (OIIG). In response to a question regarding reports
issued by the OIIG, Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, stated that he has had conversations on that
subject this week about figuring out the appropriate way to organize and concurrently make the Board aware of
anything that comes out from the OIIG related to the System. When the OIIG does an inspection of any bureau or
department of the County, typically the person who is in charge of that area receives the report; in the case of the
System, Dr. Shannon receives it. Those who also receive the report are the general counsel for that area and the
President. He and Elizabeth Reidy, General Counsel, are working on a procedure by which they can sum and
feed into the Board the appropriate part; in the initial discussions on the subject, it was felt that the Audit and
Compliance Committee is the appropriate place to funnel up that information to the rest of the organization.
Dr. Shannon provided comments with regard to the subject of Committee metrics relating to Internal Audit. He
stated that he supports the Board’s drive to make the organization responsible and make that accountability with
an ongoing set of metrics; however, one area that is difficult to measure in the same kind of cold, quantifiable way
is Internal Audit; an exception to that is perhaps relating to measuring progress in addressing deficiencies
identified in the external audit by McGladrey LLP. He and Mr. Schroeder plan to further work on addressing the
subject. Board Chairman Hammock indicated that he looks forward to seeing what can be done.

For approval:
B.

Internal Audit Charter (Attachment #2)
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to approve the Internal
Audit Charter. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C.

Charter for Audit and Compliance Committee – review as it relates to Internal Audit and
Corporate Compliance (Attachment #3)

Mr. Schroeder and Cathy Bodnar, Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer, reviewed the
information presented regarding the Charter for the Audit and Compliance Committee.
In response to a question from Board Chairman Hammock regarding whether the subject of technology
systems is highlighted in the Charter, Mr. Schroeder responded in the negative; however, he stated that
Internal Audit annually conducts a risk assessment on a formal basis. Following discussion, it was
determined that the Charter would be amended to include that subject and brought back to the Committee at
the next meeting for consideration and approval.
Board Chairman Hammock referenced the section in the Charter regarding the Committee Chair’s right to
hold executive closed sessions to review and discuss matters. He stated that it is his experience that it is
best practice to hold very regular executive closed sessions where only Committee Members or Board
Members are in attendance; no staff members are in attendance. He proposed that it become a formal
practice that, at least quarterly, an executive closed session be held with the entire Board, led by the
Committee Chair. When it is time for the Committee’s quarterly focus area presentation to the Board, he
suggested that it be made a part of that which is held in closed session. Mr. Schroeder indicated that this
can be memorialized in the Charter.
Following the discussion, Mr. Schroeder stated that updates will be made to the Charter and presented for
approval at the next Committee Meeting.
Page 2 of 102

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, February 19, 2015
Page 3

IV.

Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer – Information and Action Items (Attachment #4)
Ms. Bodnar provided an overview of the presentation on the Information and Action Items relating to Corporate
Compliance. The Committee reviewed and discussed the matters.
For approval:
A.

CCHHS Compliance Program Operations Plan (Attachment #5)

Following discussion, a minor amendment was made to the Plan on page 4.
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to approve the CCHHS
Compliance Program Operations Plan, as amended. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B.

CountyCare Compliance Plan (Attachment #6)
Director Junge, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to approve the CountyCare
Compliance Plan. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C.

Designation of Cathy Bodnar as Chief Compliance Officer (as the CountyCare Compliance
Officer) (Attachment #7)
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to approve the designation
of Cathy Bodnar as Chief Compliance Officer. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

For information:
D.

IV.

CountyCare Oversight Meetings (Attachment #8)

Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer – Information and Action Items (continued)
To receive and file:
E.

CountyCare Compliance Steering Committee Charter (Attachment #9)

F.

CountyCare Grievances and Appeals Introduction (Attachment #10)

G.

FY2014 Compliance Program Activity (Attachment #11)

During the discussion of the information, a question arose regarding staffing levels in Corporate Compliance.
Ms. Bodnar stated that at the next Committee Meeting, she will be submitting her 2014 annual report; she
will include information on staffing in that report.
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to receive and file the items
under Sections IV(E), (F) and (G). THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 3 of 102

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, February 19, 2015
Page 4

V.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, June 23, 2014
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to accept the minutes of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of June 23, 2014. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections III, IV, V and VI

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Report from Director of Internal Audit
B. Report from Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer
C. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Chairman Velasquez, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to recess the open
meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific
employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing
testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(29),
regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental audit
committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves
internal control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or
suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards of the United States of America.” THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Velasquez declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into the open meeting.

VII. Adjourn
Director Junge, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the meeting adjourned.
Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Carmen Velasquez, Chairman
Attest:
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 4 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 5 of 102

  Audit and Compliance Committee

Internal Audit Report
February 19, 2015

COMUNT SYHYESTA LTH

Page 6 of 102

Meeting
g Objectives
j
 Review Information on the CCHHS Internal Audit function:


Board Rules – Audit and Compliance Committee



Charters:
o

Audit and Compliance Committee

o

Internal Audit



International Professional Practice Framework



Internal Audit Strategic Plan



I t
Internal
l Audit
A dit Organizational
O
i ti
l Chart
Ch t

 Approve


Audit and Compliance Committee Charter



Internal Audit Charter

 Closed Session
2
Page 7 of 102

 Board Rules
 Rule 4. Organization


(c) Committees and Subcommittees
o

(A) Audit and Compliance

3
Page 8 of 102

 Charter – Audit and Compliance
Committee
 Defines the Committee’s role and purpose
 Provides oversight to the CCHHS internal audit and corporate compliance
programs
 Monitors systems to ensure the quality of information used by the Board of
CCHHS or by external agencies to evaluate CCHHS fiscal affairs and
regulatory compliance
 Provides oversight to ensure the Board of Directors and management of
CCHHS establish a culture based on honesty and integrity
 Charter originally approved April 2010

4
Page 9 of 102

 Charter – Internal Audit
1. Mission
2. Role
3. Professional Standards
4 Authority
4.
5. Independence
6. Accountability
7. Audit Scope
8. Responsibility

5
Page 10 of 102

 International Professional Practice
Framework (IPPF)
1. The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA)
 Global organization of the IA profession


Professional Standards



Certifications



Education and resources

2. IPPF
 Definition of Internal Auditing
 Code of Ethics
 International Standards for the Professional Practice of
Internal Auditing (the “Standards”)

6
Page 11 of 102

 Internal Audit Strategic Plan
Mission
Internal Audit serves as a
trusted advisor to the
Board off Directors, its
Audit and Compliance
Committee, and to the
Senior Leadership team
and operating
management of CCHHS

Vision
Internal Audit provides
independent, objective
assurance and consulting
services to its
stakeholders in matters
of risk management,
controls, and
governance. Internal
Audit; aligns its
activities with CCHHS’s
mission/strategy
mission/strategy,
provides customer driven
service, provides
education, collaborates
with stakeholders and
customers, promotes the
value of good controls
and ethical behavior, and
provides value
value-added
added
services to its
stakeholders.

Goals

I. Trusted Advisor

II. Promote
II
P
t risk
i k
management, controls,
governance

III. Collaborate with
stakeholders

IV. Provide education
to stakeholders and
customers

Initiatives
• Develop standards to ensure internal auditors are objective
• Develop standards to ensure internal auditors are independent
• Develop standards to ensure internal audit-derived information
f
is shared
only on a “need to know” basis

•
•
•
•

Develop Audit and Compliance Committee and Internal Audit Charters
Establish Internal Audit resource plan capable of supporting its Charter
Participate in professional associations
Develop robust risk assessments and internal audit project plans

• Periodically reassess stakeholder expectations
• Develop communication pieces for Senior Leadership and operating
management
• Ensure Internal Audit methodology incorporates stakeholder and
customer communications in feedback loops

• Provide Audit and Compliance Committee information on best practices
relating to their roles and responsibilities
• Provide Internal Audit strategic plan to Board, Audit and Compliance
Committee Senior Leadership,
Committee,
Leadership and operating management
• Provide education to stakeholders and customers on internal audit
methodologies, risk/control models, and current leading practices

7
Page 12 of 102

 Internal Audit Strategic Plan, continued
Mission
Internal Audit serves as a
trusted advisor to the
Board off Directors, its
Audit and Compliance
Committee, and to the
Senior Leadership team
and operating
management of CCHHS

Vision
Internal Audit provides
independent, objective
assurance and consulting
services to its
stakeholders in matters
of risk management,
controls, and
governance. Internal
Audit; aligns its
activities with CCHHS’s
mission/strategy,
mission/strategy
provides customer driven
service, provides
education, collaborates
with stakeholders and
customers, promotes the
value of good controls
and ethical behavior, and
provides value
value-added
added
services to its
stakeholders.

Goals

Initiatives

V. Provide
stakeholders with value
added services

• Develop Internal Audit staff and market their capabilities in analytical
assessments, projects, and investigations
• Ensure Internal Audit recommendations include creative solutions to
issues identified by Internal Audit
• Ensure Internal Audit follows up on Management’s resolution of issues
identified by Internal Audit

VI. Provide exceptional
customer service

• Develop an Internal Audit quality assurance program which fosters
continuous improvement in Internal Audit operations
• Develop Internal Audit metrics and scorecards as a basis to measure
Internal Audit success

8
Page 13 of 102

 Internal Audit Organization
Director
Of
Internal Audit

Assoc. Director
Information
Technology
Audit

Assoc. Director
Internal Audit

Management
Analyst V

9
Page 14 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 15 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS)
Internal Audit Charter

January 22, 2015

Mission
Internal Audit is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add
value and improve an organization’s operations. It helps an organization accomplish its
objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the
effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
Internal Audit will align its activities with the mission and strategy of CCHHS. Internal Audit
will promote good controls and serve as an educational resource to its stakeholders with respect
to risk management, control and governance processes. Internal Audit will maintain a
collaborative approach to its work practices and will ensure its work product provides value
added outputs for its stakeholders.
Role
 Internal Audit’s role is determined by the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and
Compliance Committee.
 Responsibilities are defined by the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and
Compliance Committee.
Professional Standards
 Internal Audit will govern themselves by adherence to the Institute of Internal Audit’s
“Code of Ethics”. http://www.theiia.org/guidance/standards-and-guidance/ippf/code-ofethics/english/
 The Institute’s “International Professional Practice Framework” shall constitute the operating
procedures for the department. These documents are considered an addendum to this Charter.
http://www.theiia.org/guidance/standards-and-guidance/ippf/standards/
 Internal Audit will adhere to all CCHHS policies and procedures and all Internal Audit
procedure manuals.
Authority
Internal Audit is authorized to:
 Have unrestricted access to all functions, records, property and personnel.
 Have free, open, and timely access to the Chief Executive Officer and the CCHHS Board of
Directors through its Audit and Compliance Committee.
 Allocate department resources, set frequencies, select subjects, determine scope of work and
apply the techniques required to achieve audit objectives.
 Obtain the necessary assistance of personnel in the organization when performing audits, as
well as other specialized services from within or outside the organization.
Independence
 All audit activities shall remain free of influence by any element in the organization,
including matters of audit scope, procedures, frequency, timing, or report content, required to
permit the independence required to render objective reports.
 Internal auditors shall have no operational responsibility or authority over any activities they
review.
 Internal auditors shall not develop or install systems or procedures, prepare records or engage
in any other activity that they would normally audit.

Page 16 of 102

 


Internal Audit reports functionally to the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and
Compliance Committee and administratively to the Chief Executive Officer.
Internal Audit periodically reports to the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and
Compliance Committee and to CCHHS Senior Leadership as outlined in the section on
Accountability.

Accountability
Internal Audit is accountable to the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and Compliance
Committee and to CCHHS Senior Leadership to:
 Report significant issues related to the process for controlling the activities of the
organization, including potential improvements to those processes, and provide information
concerning such issues through resolution.
 Provide information periodically on the status and results of the annual audit plan and the
sufficiency of internal audit resources.
 Coordinate with and provide oversight of other control and monitoring functions.
Audit Scope
The scope of the work of Internal Audit is to determine whether the network of risk management,
control and governance processes, as designed and represented by management, is adequate and
functioning in a manner to ensure:









Risks are identified and managed.
Interaction with various governance groups occurs as needed.
Significant financial, managerial and operating information is accurate, reliable and timely.
Employee’s actions are in compliance with policies, standards, procedures and applicable
laws and regulations.
Resources are acquired economically, used efficiently, and adequately protected.
Programs, plans and objectives are achieved.
Quality and continuous improvement are fostered in control processes.
Significant legislative or regulatory issues impacting the organization are recognized and
addressed properly.

Responsibility
 Develop an annual audit plan using risk-based methodology, including any risk or control
concerns expressed by management, and submit the plan to the CCHHS Board of Directors
through its Audit and Compliance Committee and to CCHHS Senior Leadership for approval.
 Implement the audit plan and any special requests by the CCHHS Board of Directors, its
Audit and Compliance Committee, and CCHHS Senior Leadership and management.
 Maintain a professional audit staff capable of meeting the requirements of this Charter.
 Establish a quality assurance program whereby the director of internal audit assures the
operations of internal audit.
 Perform consulting services in addition to assurance services. Consulting services are defined
as “advisory and related client services activities, the nature and scope of which are agreed
with the client and which are intended to add value and improve the organization’s
governance, risk management and control processes without the internal auditor assuming
management responsibility.” Examples include counsel, advice, facilitation, and training.
 Evaluate and assess significant merging/consolidating functions and new or changing
services, processes, operations and control processes, coincident with their development,
implementation and/or expansion.

Page 17 of 102

 





Issue periodic reports to the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and Compliance
Committee and to CCHHS Senior Leadership summarizing results of internal audit activities.
Inform the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and Compliance Committee, and
CCHHS Senior Leadership of emerging trends and successful practices in internal auditing.
Provide the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and Compliance Committee, and
CCHHS Senior Leadership a list of internal audit measurement goals and results.
Assist in the investigation of significant suspected fraudulent activities.
Consider the scope of work of the external auditors and regulators for the purpose of
providing optimal audit coverage at a reasonable cost.

__________________________
Carmen Velasquez
Audit and Compliance Committee Chair

__________________________
Dr. Jay Shannon
Chief Executive Officer

_________________________
Tom Schroeder
Director of Internal Audit

Page 18 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 19 of 102

 Charter   for   the      
Audit   &   Compliance   Commi5ee   
The   Charter,   
§  Deﬁnes   the   Commi5ee’s   role   and   purpose.   
§  Provides   oversight   to   the   CCHHS   internal   audit   and   
corporate   compliance   programs.      
§  Monitors   that   systems   are   in   place   to   ensure   the   quality   of   
informaEon   used   by   the   Board   of   CCHHS   or   by   external   
agencies   to   evaluate   the   ﬁscal   aﬀairs   and   regulatory   
compliance.         
§  Provides   oversight   to   ensure   the   Board   of   Directors   and   
management   of   CCHHS   establishes   a   culture   based   on   
honesty   and   integrity.   
§  Originally   approved   in   April   2010.   
   
§  AcEon:   Review   and   Approve.   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

1   

Page 20 of 102

 Category:
CHARTER POLICY
Subject:
CHARTERS FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Title:
AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CHARTER

Page:
1 of 4
Revision of:
01/22/2010

Approval Date:
04/16/2010

This document sets forth the duties, responsibilities, and governs the operations of the Audit & Compliance
Committee of the Board of Directors of Cook County Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS), a
comprehensive, integrated system of healthcare throughout Chicago and suburban Cook County through
its hospitals, ambulatory and community health network clinics, public health department, and correctional
healthcare facility. , and outpatient infectious disease center.
PURPOSE
The CCHHS Board of Directors (“Board”) and the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) are committed to the
proper oversight of our Audit and Compliance programs. In furtherance of this objective, the Board initiated
an Audit and Compliance Committee1 composed of independent directors.
The purpose of the Committee is to provide oversight to the CCHHS internal audit and corporate
compliance programs and monitor that systems are in place to ensure the quality of information used by the
Board of CCHHS or by external agencies to evaluate the fiscal affairs and regulatory compliance.
Additionally, the Audit and Compliance Committee will provide oversight to ensure the Board of Directors
and management of CCHHS establishes a culture based on honesty and integrity.
The Committee shall advise the Board in matters relating to
(1) the integrity of CCHHS financial reporting,
(2) the effectiveness of CCHHS internal control over financial reporting,
(3) the performance and effectiveness of CCHHS internal audit and corporate compliance
programs and the independent public accountants,
(4) the implementation of standards and processes to ensure professional responsibility and
honest behavior,
(5) the compliance with regulatory requirements, as they relate to and impact the operational
areas above, and
(6) risk management, as it relates to internal audit and corporate compliance.
POLICY
1.

2.

The Board has established a Committee charged with the responsibility of providing oversight to the
internal audit and corporate compliance programs of the organization and ensuring the
organization has adopted and implemented policies and procedures that will ensure compliance with
all applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
The primary goals of the Committee are to
(a) assist the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities relating to the regulatory and financial
compliance with applicable laws, regulatory requirements, industry guidelines, and policies;

Since the 1940s, this has been preferred method to provide financial oversight within their companies. For the last decade, the
Office of Inspector General (OIG) in their compliance guidance has also promoted the same approach in ensuring compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations. The OIG believes that creation of Board leadership “as a first step, a good faith and
meaningful commitment on the part of the … administration, especially the governing body and the CEO, will substantially
contribute to a program’s successful implementation.” They also see that effective Board oversight of compliance as one of their
critical fiduciary responsibilities.
1

Page 21 of 102

 Title:
AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHARTER

Page:
2 of 4

(b) ensure the organization has adopted and implemented policies and procedures which will
require CCHHS to act in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies. This
includes but is not limited to the quality and integrity of accounting, auditing, and compliance
reporting methodologies and financial reporting that reflects the condition of the organization in all
material respects;
(c) review and approve annual internal audit and corporate compliance program plans and
monitor the ongoing progress of said plans;
(d) address and review matters concerning or related to the internal audit and corporate
compliance programs; and
(e) provide a vehicle for communication between the Board, CCHHS management, and the
independent auditors concerning the internal audit and corporate compliance programs.
DEFINITIONS
“Counsel” refers to CCHHS Office of General Counsel or outside counsel as designated.
“Chief Compliance Officer” means the System Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer or his/her staff as
designated by the Chief Compliance Officer.
“Director of Internal Audit” means the System Director of Internal Audit or his/her staff as designated by the
Director of Internal Audit.
PROCEDURES
The Committee shall:
1. Be comprised of three to five Board members with working knowledge of a health system, none
of whom is an officer or employee of the organization, its subsidiaries or affiliates with one of
which shall be deemed a financial expert.
2. Be independent of management and free of any relationship that, in the opinion of the Board,
would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a committee member.
3. Have the authority to hire, terminate, and determine the compensation for the Chief Compliance
Officer and the Director of Internal Audit.
4. Have the authority to engage independent counsel and other advisors, as it determines
necessary to carry out its duties.
5. Provide independent oversight of CCHHS internal audit and corporate compliance programs,
financial reporting processes, internal controls and independent auditors.
6. Meet in advance of meetings of the Board, at least four times annually and more frequently, as
necessary and shall make recommendations to the Board annually, after consultation with the
Chief Executive Officer, on those findings and matters within the scope of their responsibility.
7. Maintain minutes of all its meetings to document its activities and recommendations.
8. Meet periodically with the Chief Compliance Officer, Director of Internal Audit, and the
independent auditors to be kept informed on their independent evaluation of compliance with
legal, regulatory, financial, accounting and auditing practices.

Page 22 of 102

 Title:
AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHARTER

Page:
3 of 4

9. Committee has the right to hold executive closed sessions pursuant to Illinois Open Meetings
Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11) as needed to review and discuss matters as they relate to the
Committee.
10. Review policies and procedures relating to the integrity of financial information of the organization
and those other related entities for the purpose of assuring adequacy of the internal controls and
financial operations.
11. Review and approve annual internal audit and corporate compliance program plans and monitor the
ongoing progress of said plans and ensure any related work is coordinated with the independent
auditors.
12. Meet with the independent auditors and financial management to review the scope of the proposed
audit for the current year and the audit procedures to be utilized and at the conclusion thereof review
such audit, including any comments or recommendations of the independent auditors.
13. Review changes in the accounting standards and applicable policies and procedures with the
independent auditors. Make appropriate recommendations to management and the Board on the
findings included in the independent auditors' management letter.
14. Review the financial statements contained in the annual report with management to ensure that they
are timely and free from material errors and that all appropriate disclosures are made. Determine
that the independent auditors are satisfied with the disclosure and content of the financial statements.
15. Provide oversight to the implementation of the corporate compliance program, and ensure
adherence to the Standards of Conduct and Governmental Rules and Regulations and recommend
any revisions thereto, as appropriate.
16. Provide oversight to the corporate compliance program relating to the conduct of business that will
ensure that high ethical and conduct standards are met. Ensure the mission, values, and Standards
of Conduct are properly communicated to all employees on an annual basis.
17. Review matters relating to education, training and communication in connection with the Standards of
Conduct to ensure that the policies and procedures on compliance are properly disseminated,
understood and followed.
18. Present to the Board, as appropriate, such measures and recommend such actions as may be
necessary or desirable to assist CCHHS in conducting its activities in compliance with applicable
regulations, policies, and the Standards of Conduct. This includes the results of individual audits,
related findings and management’s response to said findings.

Page 23 of 102

 Title:
AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHARTER

Page:
4 of 4

ORIGINAL APPROVAL
At the Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System on Friday, April 16, 2010 at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, 1901 W.
Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room, Chicago, Illinois.
SUBSEQUENT APPROVAL
At the Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System on <<insert day and date>> at 1900 West Polk, 2nd Floor Conference Room,
Chicago, Illinois.

REVIEW HISTORY:
Written:
Updated:
Updated:

January 22, 2010
April 16, 2010

Page 24 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 25 of 102

 Corporate Compliance 
R
Report
t
Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC
Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer
February 19 2015
February 19, 2015

Page 26 of 102

 Meeting Objectives
Meeting Objectives
To Review and Approve the:
 CCHHS Compliance Program Operation Plan
 CountyCare Compliance Plan
 Designation of the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer 
(to formally integrate CountyCare)
For Information Only:
 CountyCare Oversight Meetings Summary
To Receive and File:
 CountyCare Compliance Steering Committee Charter
CountyCare Fraud, Waste and Abuse Program
 County Care Grievances and Appeals Introduction
 FY 2014 Corporate Compliance Program Annual Statistics 
Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

2
Page 27 of 102

 CCHHS Compliance Program Operation Plan
CCHHS Compliance Program Operation Plan
The CCHHS Operation Plan,
 Summarizes the essence of the CCHHS Compliance Program
h
f h
l
 Demonstrates the organization’s commitment to promoting ethical and 
lawful conduct consistent with all applicable laws, regulations, and 
contractual requirements as well as CCHHS policies procedures and
contractual requirements, as well as CCHHS policies, procedures, and 
Code of Ethics/Standards of Conduct. 
 Parallels the elements of an effective compliance program as 
recommended  through Federal Sentencing Guidelines and the HHS 
Office of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance publications 
and is required by the CMS Managed Care Program Integrity 
requirements.
 Originally approved in April 2010.
O i i ll
d i A il 2010


Action: Review and Approve

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

3
Page 28 of 102

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Corporate Compliance Program 

 

Insert Date of Adoption
Cook County Health and Hospital Systems  
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROGRAM LEAD:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVAL PARTIES: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC   
 
Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer    
Cook County Health & Hospitals System 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Cook County 
Health & Hospitals System Board of Directors   
Originally Approved on July 16, 2010 
Reviewed and Approved on <<insert date>> 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
John Jay Shannon, MD 
Chief Executive Officer 
Cook County Health & Hospitals System 
Electronically Approved on January 30, 2015 

 

Page 29 of 102

 CountyCare Compliance Plan
CountyCare Compliance Plan
The CountyCare Compliance Plan,
 Summarizes the CountyCare Compliance Plan, as required by the Managed 
h
l
l
db h
d
Care Community Network (MCCN) Contract with the Department of 
Healthcare and Family Services (HFS).
 Parallels the elements of an effective compliance program recommended  
Parallels the elements of an effective compliance program recommended
through Federal Sentencing Guidelines and Compliance Program Guidance 
and is required by CMS Managed Care Program Integrity requirements.  
The CountyCare Compliance Plan also contains additional information 
regarding CountyCare procedures to prevent and detect fraud, waste and 
abuse and manage grievances and appeals. 
 The CountyCare Compliance Plan will be managed and maintained by the 
CCHHS Office of Corporate Compliance in collaboration with the Third
CCHHS Office of Corporate Compliance, in collaboration with the Third 
Party Administrator, IlliniCare.  


Action: Review and Approve
Action: Review and Approve
Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

4
Page 30 of 102

  

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
CountyCare Compliance Plan 

 

 

Insert Date of Adoption
 
 
 
 
 
PROGRAM LEAD:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVAL PARTIES: 
 
 
 
 
 
 

       

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC   
 
Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer    
Cook County Health & Hospitals System 
 
 

 

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Cook County 
Health & Hospitals System Board of Directors
 
Approved on <<insert date>> 
 
 
John Jay Shannon, MD 
Chief Executive Officer 
Cook County Health & Hospitals System 
Electronically Approved on January 30, 2015 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 31 of 102

 Expanding the Role 
of the Chief Compliance Officer
f h Chi f C
li
Offi
Designation of the Chief Compliance Officer 
 Supports contractual obligation to define and delegate compliance 
l bl
d f
dd l
l
responsibilities for the Health Plan. 
 Comports with best practice for Board and CEO approval.
 Existing job description of the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer job 
E istin job des ription of the Chief Complian e and Pri a Offi er job
allows for incorporation of duties. 


Action: Review and Approve
Action: Review and Approve

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

5
Page 32 of 102

 NON-DIRECT PATIENT CARE JOB DESCRIPTION
TITLE:
Job Code:
Reports To:

Chief Compliance Officer

Grade:
CCHHS Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer

24






POSITION SUMMARY
Brief summary of position.

The Chief Compliance Officer is also the Chief Privacy Officer, this position reflects the mission and vision of Cook
County Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS) and oversees the CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program1, functioning as
an independent and objective body that reviews and evaluates compliance issues/concerns within the organization. The
position ensures the Board of Directors, senior management and workforce are in compliance with the rules and
regulations of regulatory agencies, that company policies and procedures are being followed, and that behavior in the
organization meets the CCHHS Standards of Conduct (Code of Ethics).
The Corporate Compliance Office exists (1) as a channel of communication to receive and direct compliance issues to
appropriate CCHHS resources for investigation and resolution, and (2) as a final internal resource with which concerned
parties may communicate after other formal channels and resources have been exhausted.
REPORTING STRUCTURE
The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the CCHHS Board of Directors through the Audit and Compliance Committee of
the Board and the Chief Executive Officer.
RESPONSIBILITIES
Fundamental job duties for which this position is accountable.













Provides oversight and guidance for the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, and senior management on
matters relating to compliance.
Monitors and reports results of organizational compliance/ethics efforts.
efforts The Chief Compliance Officer is authorized
to implement all necessary actions to ensure achievement of the objectives of an effective compliance program.
Develops, initiates, maintains, and revises policies, procedures and practices for the general operation of CCHHS
and its related activities to prevent illegal, unethical, or improper conduct.
Guides and partners with operational leadership to facilitate operational ownership of compliance.
Monitors organizational compliance activities of CCHHS.
Develops and periodically reviews and updates Standards of Conduct to ensure continuing relevance in providing
guidance to management and employees.
Collaborates with operational areas throughout the organization to direct compliance issues to appropriate channels
for investigation and resolution. Consults with the legal counsel as needed to resolve difficult legal compliance
issues
issues.
Responds to alleged violations of rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and the CCHHS Standards of Conduct by
evaluating or recommending the initiation of investigative procedures. Develops and oversees a system for uniform
handling of such violations.
Acts as an independent review and evaluation body to ensure that compliance issues/concerns are being
appropriately evaluated, investigated and resolved.
Identifies potential areas of compliance vulnerability and risk; develops/implements corrective action plans for
resolution of problematic issues, and provides general guidance on how to avoid or deal with similar situations in the
future.

1 Section 6401 of the Affordable Care Act requires healthcare providers participating in federal healthcare programs to establish compliance and ethics programs
that contain certain “core elements” as a condition of participation. The core elements can be found within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
Office of Inspector General published Compliance Program Guidance in 1998 and Supplemental Guidance in 2005, these documents, along with the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines provide the foundation for Compliance Programs.







Ensures proper hospital reporting of violations or potential violations to duly authorized enforcement agencies as
appropriate and/or required.
Establishes and provides direction and management of a system compliance hot line.
Establishes and monitors a system to log and track all concerns/issues raised to Corporate Compliance.
Institutes and maintains an effective compliance communication program for the organization, including promoting
(a) use of the compliance hotline, (b) heightened awareness of ABC Hospital codes of conduct, and (c)
understanding of new and existing compliance issues and related policies and procedures.
Works with CCHHS Human Resources Department and others as appropriate to develop an effective compliance
training program,
program including appropriate introductory training for new employees as well as ongoing training for all
employees and managers.
Monitors the performance of the Compliance Program and related activities on a continuing basis, taking appropriate
steps to improve it effectiveness.
Supervises the Corporate Compliance Department to insure department goals are met.
Provides reports on a regular basis, and as directed or requested, to keep the Board of Directors and senior
management informed of the operation and progress of compliance efforts.

EDUCATION/EXPERIENCE QUALIFICATIONS
Level of education and experience
p
that is required
q
for the pposition.
Required
 Masters Degree in Healthcare, Business, Education, or related field.
 Professional Certification: Certified in Heathcare Compliance (CHC)
 Ten (10) years experience in a healthcare organization, to include demonstrated leadership. Familiarity with
operational, financial, quality assurance, and human resource procedures and regulations is necessary.
 Five+ (5+) years recent leadership experience in healthcare compliance
 Seven+ (7+) years of conducting complex healthcare compliance investigations
 Maintains a high degree of credibility, independence, integrity, confidentiality and trust. Strong communication and
leadership skills are essential.
 Demonstrates sound business judgment and is supportive of the system mission and objectives. Commands respect of
the senior management team, board level committees and other members of the compliance team.
 Strives to develop partnerships, teamwork and good working relationships. Maintains an open management style.
 Understands the complexities of a large, diverse, public, safety-net organization. Involves others appropriately in
consultations and decisions.
 Understands the legal regulatory framework of the entity.
 Exhibits analytical skills and an understanding of operational processes and technology concepts.
 Maintains strong writing skills required to write and edit policies and procedures, issue memorandums and compile
program reports.
t
 Exhibits exceptional presentation skills with large and small audiences.
 Able to operate successfully in a constantly changing, fast-paced environment. Demonstrates initiative, self-motivation,
practical learning skills, enthusiasm, and an ability to complete multiple tasks in a timely and accurate manner.
 Software application skills – MS Office Access, Excel, PowerPoint, and Word.
Desired
 Juris Doctor (J.D.)
 Professional Certification: RHIA, RN, CPA, or CFE, Current & Active
Note:
This job description was developed through the review of multiple position descriptions published through the Heath Care Compliance Association (HCCA), a
nationally recognized professional organization of healthcare compliance professionals.

Page 33 of 102

 CountyCare Health Plan Oversight Meetings
CountyCare Health Plan Oversight Meetings
Oversight meetings
 Fulfills our contractual requirement to manage and provide oversight for 
lf ll
l
d
d
h f
health plan operations.  
 Action: None. Awareness only.
A tion None A areness onl

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

6
Page 34 of 102

  

 

CountyCare Health Plan Oversight Committee Meetings

HEALTH PLAN MEETING 
Node; fheseomlsightme?ngs to hateirlemat opevaienatoowniitees to manage and mtideoters'ghibrheam plan
ope-mime Thiso?owmisumrna?zes the Weeme?ghimrr?ees.

Execu?le Coirurrittee

The County?ae Executive Coirmittee meets senior delegates aldCountyCa'eleadership. The
Executive?ommite-eis responsiileforprovititg theoversight, gridatceatdsuppmtoCountyla'e leedersh'ptosupportthe
achievementofageedupon goals it a malner consistentwith aprovidersponsored agatization atd focusedon inprovitg the health
stews ofundeiseived'at?rislc populations'll a fisc?y appropriatematner. The Ere-cutie Comrrimewl provide useful fee-died: to
Plat leadershiiregatitg Plan perfonnatce atdpranoteaigtmentlietween Plan progans.

Frequency: 

Carin areFimnce Cawriiltee

The committee meets month a1dis responsirle for recommentilg titatcia poicies gods aid budgets that support the mission
valves atd strategic gods titatoia performance apa'tst its gods atd
proposes major tratsactions aid progans to the bead.

Frequency: 

Court are hm Cawriillee

This committeeprovides oversiguofaldgtidatce to CountyCa-eoperations to full Crimpiatce Progran remiemen?slwhich
itchide the inplementation atdoperation oftheCompia'Ice Pro-gran. The Compiatce actitity
pursuantto?ompiance Program rewiements atd contractual remiements. This would itchdereviews otlbutnot initedto,autitsl
monitaitg activity: atdcoireciveecim plats. Besedon these rernts? theCompiatce Carmittee wimalteiecommendatims to
operations as necessay.

Frequency: 

Quit: {[anenl Camillee 

The DID meets materiy atdpromotes asystem-wide approach tle provides oversightatd tiection II assestilgthe avidity
access aid aipropriateness ofcaea'ld services deiveredatd contituouslyenhatces aid Improves the m?tyofcae atdseivices
providedtomembers. This is accunpishedthiougt acomprehensivesys'em otongo'llg objectite aid systematic monitori'Iggthe
identification, wild?; and resounon otprocess otoppmunitiestomprovemermer outcomes;a1dtne

 

 

 

ethication ofmembeis, aid staff L, theCtu?y.? tatd Perfomtalce Improtement-[QAPH Pro-gran.
Frequency: materly

Cmruriittee Repar?iig'to the it":
Uh?lizah?an?a Committee

The prina'y purposeis toprovideoveisightoftheutizaim matapementprogan, cae comi'Iationtcase management
pro-gran aid associate-dactiviies to ensure that UM actititiesaeitteg'ated itto dfunctiona aees atd depa'tments. The 
meets atleastqia'terlyatdis resamsirlefa'theatalysis of UM data{such as hospitdatnissim? anhtlatoiy encounersiatdthe
levelofca'e utizedL care es carpletion rates of i1 ca'e
coorti'latim byrislc the identifica'ion issues. We:
responslrities itchide the monitoritgoftheaipropiiamness otcae over?ald understization ofsenicesl reviewatdaiprovaot
mericalnecessity criteria.

Frequency: thiaterly

 

?Page 255--

 

 

 

cm?;

 



arthorityoverdtehealth plan? Phamacy Program. The
Phamacy Progran Desaption 
uitgphamacyutiza?ion spedtic Drug Utization Flemisturies patioila'lyon 
erection reports.

S}is a1 adhoc commitEeoftheQIC aldis responsitleforreviewitg itaipropriateoraieriatt
wdqt?tyofcaeconcernsJ adverse eventsJatdsentitel events where ititia'n 

significatt seve'eadveisemmune has mcuriedorothercases as deemedaquxiate. The PRC
gmentit assessitgthe aipropriatenessofciticacae atd recanmenritgacoireciveacim plat
vider's situation.

esis

municatte Wmans aldpro-ce-sse-s The Committee provide-s
protieatd itcentiveprog'ans aid other adnitistiatite practioes aid supports developmentof dte
seful atalyses of the data aid effective meats of heipitg Providers' Inprove tite'l' perfonnatce.
esis

ensurenetwu?lt piqre?ycredentialedatd
. has the credentiitg aid non-physiciaI
providers] atdotherpractiioners it titeplat networlc atdtooveisee titecredenti?tgprocessto
atdaccretitation remiemenis.

El?is at hand; dtattaciatesthe him-oration ofa
gum the orgatizationThe PIT is responsitleforgatheiitgatd atalyz'llg performatce measures,

atriysis for'nricatois f?glielowdesi'ed mrfamatoe atdmacitg recanmendaions rega'citg
iinprotrement The inplementaion ofrecommended
tm'dteQIC ald'orits suppori'lg subcoirmitteesl monioiitgthe outcomesofthose inprotement
Eignatedcommime. li'lult'ple PITs mayexist

:chedtle wi be developed

 

 

nitthdeholderCommitteemee?s on toprovidefeecliacttothe?l? on health
dcommunitypeispec?tes; recommends progran enha'lcemen?s basedon Enroleea'ld
an issues sudt as rispaities dtatmay mpactcomrriinitygoups provides'nputon service
eon effecive aiproachesforreach'ng Enrolees orother Enroleeselawd' issues. These comrritte-es
action surveyresults; evahta'es performatcelevelsatd telephone response tinesgreviews Enrolee
I understattitg atdeaseof use; evaliates netwoit acoessissues;a1dprovides feetliacl: as

 

Frequency: Quaterly



 



 

 

 



 

a?acilg thescopeoffuncions ofdelegatedvenrhsatd
emiements? Key Perfmna'loe Inrica?ors. The
meet'ngs atdregtla'monitoiitgof

:r'ng hterrltergieratces atdarpedsitdtritgthose amyiom
?vetoes atdaipeastoassess he tretds atdpatterrs' addticn to
atdm?itgremrrmendaiirs regatitgmredteacims as

 

 

El

ant Integrity (PI) atd amid Investigations Unit activities:
itg relevatt itformation.

onat a1nudbesis.

 

 





ti:

 



 

Page 35 of 102

 

CountyCare Compliance Steering
C
Committee Charter
i
Ch

The Charter
 Fulfills contractual requirements that compels the development of a 
C
Compliance Committee to oversee the health plan’s Fraud Waste and 
li
C
itt t
th h lth l ’ F d W t
d
Abuse Plan and operations.  
 This document outlines the charter statement for the committee, the 
various inputs that will be considered by the committee, the
various inputs that will be considered by the committee, the 
communications and reports generated by the committee, as well as the 
voting rights for committee members.  
 The CountyCare Corporate Compliance Committee is chaired by the 
CCHHS Compliance and Privacy Officer and meets on a monthly basis and 
contains membership from both CCHHS leadership, CountyCare 
leadership, IlliniCare (TPA) compliance and operations.  
 Action: Receive and File

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

7
Page 36 of 102

  

 

Ceunty?sre Compliance Steering Committee Charter

 

as

 

Chart?r Statement: Te- preuide eversightatd guidense ef?eunty?aeegerstienstemr?ll Gang-liensepregran
requirements and meniter senesiteastien nesessay.

 

 

Inputs-ts the (is isnee (is mrlittee: Cdmmunieatiens
Esme-liaise Plan 21314 a listens
fi- Frsud, Waste and sweegws} Marts
I Hetline Reg-arts Keyaudienm:
I lnuestigatiens 
EIU Raped CCHHE Bead e-f Dire-mils threugt the Audit and
3- Regensmudits ?anplienee ?dmmittee
Qievmceg and W5 Rm 1: Plan Administratjen
Senstien Screening Reperts
Cen?istef Interest Resets
Delegated 
Ugsdming sudits
33- Training Hegerts
I FWA
HIPM
Cultural Emtteetensz.I
Health, Safety.I end Wetla'e
P'mt'der Edusatien
Fl'dlistI and Presedures
I Deretdgmentl?ewew
I .?udits
HIPM Updates
Quality ?Eurrent'5'atus
Gene-:utre .Euztjen Plans ?urrent'EtaIJs
Identi?satjen e-f Hen?gatizatend Risks





 

 

 

1listing:

All members, including the chair, haueene tre-te. In the euattamemba'is netgnesent, thejysen send an elterna'een
their behalf. The alternate sen ueling merrbers, ertheirdel?ates nust
beers-sentterquemm. Any vetemustbewtred by atleest 2'3.

 

 

Reperting:
The main resorting teal treat the Esme-liaise Emitteeis the Meeting Minutes. Asunmery ef the meeing will be
presided te- the Bead e-f Dire-:Lers threugh the Auditatd Cuneiiatee Cmmitle-e.

 

 

 

 

 

Page 37 of 102

 

CountyCare Fraud, Waste
and Abuse Program
d Ab
P

The Program
 Monitors the Health Plan’s Fraud, Waste and Abuse (FWA) Program with goal of 
protecting consumers in the delivery of healthcare services through timely
protecting consumers in the delivery of healthcare services through timely 
detection, investigation and prosecution of FWA.
 Achieves goal by establishing:
- Training programs for CountyCare employees, vendors, subcontractors, 
about their role in the FWA process.
b t th i l i th FWA
- Defining methods to identify, prevent, review and initiate corrective actions 
against any provider or member who is suspected of participating in FWA 
activities. 
- Developing policies and procedures.
- Outlining  the workflow to be followed in the event that a potential FWA 
issue or overpayment is identified.  
Reporting identified FWA issues, including referral to state and local
- Reporting identified FWA issues, including referral to state and local 
authorities.
 Oversees all FWA activities performed by Health Plan’s delegated vendors.
 Action: Receive and File
A ti
R i
d Fil
Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

8
Page 38 of 102

  

meetings are forreuierring Fraud; Waste and Abuse Frogransof
delegated vendors. This meeting ?hehde Payment Integrity and Special Investigations
Unit activities; tali'mg appropriate action; and assisting the groupsh proeurirg

relevant hfonnation.

 

 



 

Dashhodd Statistics Derelopment

 

2015 more: Hm

 

ReputReuierr
I Rep-ortReuierr

 

Status ofmen Im?gdicns
I Im?gdiim ?due
I Referrd Type
I Reterrd False
I IWQW Fhm?m
I Prein'lidy Review F'I'Irilg did Recunrnenddion
I Find Report Ger-mated 
I Recemmended Action Td:en

 



 

mam-in Uri-dam
I Herr sta?iig charges erpr'og'dn oversigit 
I Neureglldions 
I Employee tril'ng or profession-pd develqiment associated Irili mam-elm {e.g.J conferences Irwin's attended}

 

 

Elma?(lien Items

 

 

 

Page 39 of 102

 

 

FWA
Activity
FWA Activity
State Fiscal Year
July 2014 – June 2015

Seven (7) cases identified to date:
 Four (4) Providers
Potential upcoding on two (2) 
Potential “boiler plate” coding on 
one (1)
(1)
One (1) provider misidentified as 
CountyCare (case closed)
 Two (2) Ambulance Providers
Potential upcoding
 One (1) Member
Allegation of ineligibility 
(transitioned to HFS OIG –
(transitioned to HFS OIG closed) 
closed)

1

4
1
0

Q1

1
Q2

Q3*

Q4

Q3* = only 1-month of data (January)
Note: HFS requires quarterly reporting using
the State Fiscal Year

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

9
Page 40 of 102

 CountyCare Grievances and Appeals Process
CountyCare Grievances and Appeals Process
The Process
 Provides a mechanism for members to file complaints and a way for 
members or providers to file appeals when a request for a medical item 
b
id t fil
l h
tf
di l it
or service is denied by CountyCare.
 Allows for tracking of grievances and appeals by category, volume and 
resolution.
 Contributes to identify program improvement opportunities, which may 
reduce the issues that give rise to grievances and appeals.
 Represents a primary mechanism for CCHHS Corporate Compliance and 
p
p
y
p
p
CountyCare operations to exercise oversight of the TPA and other vendor 
operations with respect to grievances and appeals.
 Action: Receive and File

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

10
Page 41 of 102

 GRIEVANCES AND APPEALS DEFINITIONS

Contractor shali submit a summary of the Grievances and Appeals filed hy Enrollees, organized by categories of as defined below. The report shall include a summary count of
any such Grievances or Appeals received during the reporting period including those that go through fair hearings and external independent reviews. The report shall inciude
Appeals and Grievances outcomes and the leveis at which the Grievances or Appeals were resolved and whether the appeals were upheld or overturned. Contractor shall provide
this report for each popuiation for which it provides Covered Services. Reporting Frequency: Quarterly

Section
Types

Section
Categories

 

 

 

 

Term Definition

Grievance The expression of dissatisfaction hya Memberincluding complaints and requests for disenrollmentr about any matterotherthan a
matterthat is subject ofan appeal.

Appeal A requestfor review ofa decision made by CountyCare with respectto an action. An action is defined as the denial or limited
authorization of a requested servicer includingthe type or level of service;the reduction, suspension, ortermination ofa previously
authorized service;the denialr in whole or in partr of paymentfora service;thefailure to provide services in a timely manner. as
defined hythe State;the failure to act within the set timeframes.

Expedited An appealfiled when takingthe time fora standard {appeal} resolution could seriouslyjeopardize the enrollee's life or health or ability

Appeal to attainr maintain or regain maximum function.

External Exceptfor denial or Waiver services, which may not be reviewed by an external independent entity, the Enrollee may request an

Independent external independent reviewr both standard and expedited timeframes, ofappeals that are denied by Contractor within thirty {30}

Review calendar days afterthe date ofthe Contractor's decision notice 

 

Fair Hearing

The State plan must provide an opportunityfora fair hearing to any person whose claim for assistance is denied or not acted upon
Final decisions of Appeals not resolved wholly in favor of the Enrollee may be appealed hythe Enrollee to the State underits
Fair Hearings system within thirty calendar days afterthe date of the Contractor's Decision Notice.

 

Term Definition
Medical Determinations on decisions that are or which could he considered covered henefits.This includes determinations forcovered medical
Necessity benefits as defined hythe organization, including hospitalization and emergency services listed in the Certificate of Coverage or
Summary of Benefits and care of service that could he considered either covered or non-covered.depending on the circumstances.
Access to Care Areas of concerns such as: cannot find Provider. inconvenient hours. Provider capacityr out of area Providers. refusalto talnte Medicaid,

ADA non-compliancer unable to address language needsr not meeting appointmenttimes requirements.

 

Quality of Care

The degree to which health services forindividuals and populations increase the likelihood of desired health outcomes and are
consistentwith current professionalknowledge.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Transportation Anygrievance or appeal relating to the transportation benefits.

Pharmacy Anygrievance or appeal relating to the pharmacy benefits.

?Waiver Grievonce:Any expression of dissatisfaction relatingto HCBS Waiver Services.

Services Appeoi:Any appeal related to the reductionr elimination, or timeliness of services or hours through the Community Care Program or
the Home Services Program.

Long Term Grievonce:Any expression of dissatisfaction relatingto Services.

Care [gm Appeoi:Any appeal related to the reductionr elimination, or timeliness of services or hours through the Community Care Program or

Services the Home Services Program.

Other Any kind ofgrievance or appeal not covered hythe previously mentioned topics.

 

 

Page 42 of 102

 

GRIEVANGE AND APPEALS 
July 21314 September 2014
[11 5P1r 21115

Grievances and Appeals Fleceived

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Quality of HERE Waiver
Category Gare Services
Grievances - Appeals - - - - 4 - - - 4
Expedited Appeals - - - - - - - - -
- Grievances and Appeals Resolved
HCBS Waiver
Category Services
Grievances - Appeals - - - - 2 - - - 2
Expedited Appeals - - - - 1E- - - - -
Total - - 39 - 15 - - - 51}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Grievances Dutccmes

Total ii of Grievances ii of Grievances Resolved ?5 of Grievances Resolved
Category Resolved within 90 [lays within 90 [lays

 

Grievances Resolved

 

Appeals Dutccmes

ll of Appeals Resolved within 15 9-6 of Appeals Resolved within
Business [lays 15 Business [lays

peawuwmnumm'

Tut-El

 

 

 

 

 

Es pedited Appeals Dutccm es

ll of Expedited Appeals Resolved 9% of Expedited Appeals
Category within 24 Hours Resolved within 24 Hours
Expedited Appeals Upneldf?verturned at MEG Level we

Tat-Ell

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 43 of 102

Grievances and Appeals Received

 

IGRIEVANCE AND APPEALS 
October 2514 - December 2514
[12 2915

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Access to HCBS Waiver
Category Services
Grievances - Appeals 4'1r
Expedited Appeals - - - - 15 - - 15
Tim115
Grievances and Appeals Resclved
Access to ?Quality of HCBS Waiver
Category Care Care Services
Grievances - Appeals Expedited Appeals - - - - 15 - - - 15
Total Grievances 

55 of Grievances Resolved
within [lays

of rievances Resolved
within [lays

Total '4 of rievances
Resolved

 

Category

Grievances Resolved

 

Appeals es

of Appeals Resolved within 15 9-6 of Appeals Resolved within
Business Days 15 Business [lays

Appeals Upheldf?verturned at MEG Level

Tut-all

 

 

 

 

 

Expedited Appeals es

ll of Expedited Appeals Resolved 55 of Expedited Appeals
within 24 Hours Resolved within 24 Hours

Category
Expedited Appeals Upheldf?verturned at MED Level

Tat-Ell

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 44 of 102

Fiscal Year End Report
Fiscal Year End Report
This Report
 Summarizes FY 2014 Corporate Compliance activity.
- Reactive activity volumes
- Completed projects (pro‐active activity)


Action: Receive and File

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

11
Page 45 of 102

 Reactive
Issue Count by Fiscal Year
Reactive Issue Count by Fiscal Year
691

470
367
242
187

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

12
Page 46 of 102

 Actual
Reactive Issue Activity
Actual Reactive Issue Activity
715
24
497
27

382
15

691
27

15

187
FY 2010

470

24

2 + 41
2 + 41

367

242
FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

13
Page 47 of 102

 2014
Issue Breakdown by Category
2014 Issue Breakdown by Category
6711 Reactive Corporate Compliance Issues Were Raised
Research
Other 0.75%
Political 10%
Activity
1%
%

Regulatory/Policy
R
l t /P li
6%

False
F
l Claims
Cl i
2%

Human
Resources
6%
HIPAA
52%

HC Fraud
3%
Theft
0.25%
Conflict of
Interest
6%
Category Count1
Privacy (HIPAA)
Accurate Books
Conflict of Interest

362
65
59

Accurate Books
9%

Human Resources
HC Fraud
False Claims

48
19
11

Political Activity
Research
Theft

6
4
1

Regulatory/Policy
Other

45
71

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

14

1

This is a total count of the issues raised to Corporate Compliance. Not all issues are validated/substantiated.
Page 48 of 102

 Status Report of Issues
Status Report of Issues
Of the total number of reactive issues addressed during FY 2014,
6% or 43 issues remained open at close of the fiscal year.
year

43 or 6%

Open Issues

504

672 or 94%
Resolved
Issues

Managed Internally
Partnered with Another Area
Referred to Other Areas

117
51
The majority of the issues, 92%, were either
g solelyy byy Corporate
p
Compliance
p
or
managed
Corporate Compliance partnered with
another area to address the concern raised.
Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

15
Page 49 of 102

 FY 2014 Projects
FY 2014 Projects









16

CountyCare
– Established a Corporate Compliance Program to demonstrate commitment to 
Established a Corporate Compliance Program to demonstrate commitment to
promoting ethical and lawful conduct consistent with all applicable laws, 
regulations, and contractual requirements, as well as CCHHS policies, procedures, 
and Code of Ethics/Standards of Conduct. 
– Developed Compliance Plan
Developed Compliance Plan
340B Compliance
Partnered with operational areas to develop policy and corresponding procedures 
to document compliance.
External DRG Probe Audit
External DRG Probe Audit 
– Reviewed a random sample of the top DRG’s at both John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital 
and Provident Hospital. Deficiencies noted, coders reeducated, and corrective 
action plan includes ongoing monitoring.
Teaching Physician Attestation with Primary Care Exception
Teaching Physician Attestation with Primary Care Exception
–
Assessed current process and researched Medicare Requirements. Facilitated 
meetings with Physician Leadership, created Policies and Procedures, and assisted 
in implementation.
Identity Theft
Identity Theft
Partnered with operations to create policies and procedures; 
developed a consistent approach to remedy the  Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015
impact of identity theft on operations.
Page 50 of 102

 Projects (continued)
Projects (continued)








Medical Records
Assisted with policies and procedures for release of information and amending
Assisted with policies and procedures for release of information and amending 
medical records.  Updated release of information authorization forms.
Record Retention
Developed retention matrix, which will supplement the existing policy and provide 
retention guidance to the System using the Illinois Hospital Association’ss Record 
retention guidance to the System using the Illinois Hospital Association
Record
Retention Reference and the current retention material filed with the state of 
Illinois.
Education
–
Developed compliance focused modules for annual education for the CCHHS
Developed compliance focused modules for annual education for the CCHHS 
workforce.    
–
Managed the ongoing operations and day‐to‐day management
of the CCHHS electronic learning management system 
(LMS) for all organizational training
(LMS) for all organizational training.
Conflict of Interest
– For all employees: Developed a Dual Employment eForm.
– For those with decision‐making responsibilities: 
Accounting of Disclosures
Accounting of Disclosures.
– Managed Processes for both.
Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

17
Page 51 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 52 of 102

 CCHHS   Compliance   Program      
OperaKon   Plan   
The   CCHHS   OperaKon   Plan,   
§  Summarizes   the   essence   of   the   CCHHS   Compliance   
Program   
§  Demonstrates   the   organizaKon’s   commitment   to   
promoKng   ethical   and   lawful   conduct   consistent   with   all   
applicable   laws,   regulaKons,   and   contractual   requirements,   
as   well   as   CCHHS   policies,   procedures,   and   Code   of   Ethics/
Standards   of   Conduct.      
§  Parallels   the   elements   of   an   eﬀecKve   compliance   program   
as   recommended      through   Federal   Sentencing   Guidelines   
and   the   HHS   Oﬃce   of   Inspector   General   Compliance   
Program   Guidance   publicaKons   and   is   required   by   the   CMS   
Managed   Care   Program   Integrity   requirements.   
§  Originally   approved   in   April   2010.   
   
§  AcKon:   Review   and   Approve   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

3   

Page 53 of 102

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Corporate Compliance Program 

 

Insert Date of Adoption
Cook County Health and Hospital Systems  
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROGRAM LEAD:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVAL PARTIES: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC   
 
Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer    
Cook County Health & Hospitals System 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Cook County 
Health & Hospitals System Board of Directors 
 
Originally Approved on July 16, 2010 
Reviewed and Approved on <<insert date>> 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Jay Shannon, MD 
Chief Executive Officer 
Cook County Health & Hospitals System 
Electronically Approved on <<insert date>> 

 

Page 54 of 102

 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program  

 
 
Table of Contents 
 
1.0 

Introduction ...................................................................................................................................... 3 

2.0 

Purpose ............................................................................................................................................. 3 

3.0 

Definitions ......................................................................................................................................... 3 

4.0 

Corporate Compliance Program Overview ....................................................................................... 4 

5.0 

Scope of Activities for the Corporate Compliance Program ............................................................. 4 

6.0 

Corporate Compliance Program Elements ....................................................................................... 4 

7.0 

Program Authority and Reporting .................................................................................................... 8 

8.0 

Periodic Program Assessment .......................................................................................................... 9 

9.0 

Reporting Compliance Concerns ....................................................................................................... 9 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 55 of 102

Page 2 of 9 
As Amended 

 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program  

 
1.0  Introduction 
The  Cook  County  Health  &  Hospitals  System  (CCHHS)  is  the  public,  safety‐net  health  care  system  for 
Chicago and suburban Cook County. John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital (Stroger), CCCHHS’ academic medical 
center,  is  located  in  the  Illinois  Medical  District  on  Chicago’s  Near  West  Side  and  primarily  serves  the 
acute  care  needs  of  the  people  of  metropolitan  Chicago.    The  System  is  also  comprised  of  Provident 
Hospital on Chicago’s South Side and the Oak Forest Health Center in suburban Oak Forest, along with 
the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center in addition to multiple Ambulatory and Community Health Network 
clinics.  Healthcare is also provided within Cermak Health Services of Cook County, to detainees at the 
Cook  County  Jail  and  the  Temporary  Juvenile  Detention  Center,  and  the  Cook  County  Department  of 
Public Health.  CCHHS also operates CountyCare, a Managed Care Community Network (“MCCN”) plan 
pursuant  to  a  contract  with  the  Illinois  Department  of  Healthcare  and  Family  Services  (“HFS”).   
CountyCare is  designed  to  provide  coverage  for  currently  uninsured  individuals  and  transform  CCHHS 
into a patient‐centered continuum of care.   

2.0  Purpose 
It is the policy of CCHHS and all affiliated organizations (collectively, “CCHHS”) to establish and support a 
system‐wide Corporate Compliance Program.  CCHHS is committed to conducting business in a manner 
that is ethical and in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws. To that end, the Cook 
County Health & Hospitals System Board of Directors, through the Audit and Compliance Committee of 
the Board, established and continues to maintain a Corporate Compliance Program.  
 
The  Corporate  Compliance  Program  is  designed  to  demonstrate  the  organization’s  commitment  to 
promoting  ethical  and  lawful  conduct  consistent  with  all  applicable  laws,  regulations,  and  contractual 
requirements,  as  well  as  CCHHS  policies,  procedures,  and  Code  of  Ethics/Standards  of  Conduct.  The 
Corporate Compliance Program is structured around the elements of an effective compliance program 
as  recommended  in  the  Federal  Sentencing  Guidelines  and  the  Department  of  Health  and  Human 
Services  (“HHS”)  Office  of  Inspector  General  (“OIG”)  Compliance  Program  Guidance  publications  and 
required  by  the  Centers  for  Medicare  &  Medicaid  Services  (“CMS”)  Managed  Care  Program  Integrity 
requirements found at 42 C.F.R. §438.608.   

3.0  Definitions  
Abuse means  (i) a manner of operation that results in excessive or unreasonable costs to the Federal or 
State  health  care  programs,  generally  used  in  conjunction  with  Fraud;  or  (ii)  the  willful  infliction  of 
injury,  unreasonable  confinement,  intimidation,  or  punishment  with  resulting  physical  harm,  pain  or 
mental anguish, generally used in conjugation with Neglect.   
 
Business Associate means a third party engaged to perform work on behalf of CCHHS. 
 
CCHHS Personnel includes officers, directors, members of committees with Board‐delegated authority, 
employees,  volunteers  and  members  of  the  medical  staff  or  house  staff,  researchers,  students,  and 
other personnel working under the direction of CCHHS.   
 

Page 56 of 102

Page 3 of 9 
As Amended 

 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program  
Chief  Compliance  Officer  is  the  CCHHS  Chief  Compliance  and  Privacy  Officer  or  his/her  staff  as 
designated by the Chief Compliance Officer. 
 
Fraud  means  knowing  and  willful  deception,  or  a  reckless  disregard  of  the  facts,  with  the  intent  to 
receive an unauthorized benefit. 
 
Plan Member means an individual who is enrolled in the CountyCare health plan.   

4.0  Corporate Compliance Program Overview  
The Corporate Compliance Program upholds the mission, vision, and core goals of CCHHS by establishing 
and supporting a system‐wide culture of honesty and respect to guide everyone’s actions by developing 
standards, increasing awareness and promoting honest behavior and professional responsibility through 
education,  awareness,  and  shared  accountability  that  promotes  compliance  with  applicable  laws, 
regulations, and system policies.  In addition, the Corporate Compliance Program is designed to prevent 
and  detect  violations  of  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  CCHHS  Code  of  Ethics,  and  organizational 
policies.   
The Corporate Compliance Program applies to all affiliates and business units of CCHHS, both the health 
care  provider  side  and  the  CountyCare  plan  side,  and  to  all  Business  Associates  and  contractors 
associated with CCHHS.  While it is expected that CCHHS personnel will comply with applicable laws and 
regulations, the CCHHS Code of Ethicsand policies, CCHHS management and directors understand that 
the  implementation  of  the  Corporate  Compliance  Program  cannot  eliminate  all  risk  of  improper 
conduct. In the event that CCHHS becomes aware of possible violations of law or the Code of Ethics or 
policies,  the  Chief  Compliance  Officer  will  investigate  the  matter  with  management  and,  where 
appropriate, act as a resource for Human Resources regarding recommended disciplinary action to deter 
future violations.  Where appropriate, the Chief Compliance Officer will confer with legal counsel. 
The  Chief  Compliance  and  Privacy  Officer,  in  consultation  with  Senior  Leadership,  the  Compliance 
Oversight Committee, and the CCHHS Board of Directors, through the Audit & Compliance Committee of 
the  Board  of  Directors,  are  responsible  for  coordinating  the  implementation  of  the  CCHHS  Corporate 
Compliance Program.  The Corporate Compliance Program is subject to ongoing review and revision as 
deemed necessary to ensure compliance.  It is designed to accommodate future changes in regulations 
and laws and may be updated to address issues not currently covered or issues related to new service 
offerings or regulatory requirements. 
The sections below establish the scope of activities, authority, reporting, committee and governance 
structure, and assessment guidelines for the CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program. 
 
 

5.0  Scope of Activities for the Corporate Compliance Program  
The  Corporate  Compliance  Program  incorporates  professional  ethics  and  responsibility  and  regulatory 
compliance.  This  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  the  prevention  or  correction  of  potential  violations 
falling within the following categories, as well as adherence to the CCHHS Standards of Conduct (Code of 
Ethics) and organizational policies: 
 Accurate Books and Records 
 Anti‐kickback activities 

Page 57 of 102

Page 4 of 9 
As Amended 

 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program  











CMS Managed Care Program Integrity requirements 
Conflict of Interest 
Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) 
False Claims 
Financial Integrity 
Fraud, Bribery, and Theft 
Integrity in both Marketing and Purchasing Practices 
Patient Privacy, Confidentiality, and Security (HIPAA) 
Research, Clinical Trials, and Grant Compliance 
Undue Political Activity and Operational Influence 

6.0  Corporate Compliance Program Elements  
The  Corporate  Compliance  Program  incorporates  the  seven  elements  of  an  effective  compliance 
program, as suggested by the HHS OIG and as mandated by the CMS Managed Care Program Integrity 
requirements.  It includes the following specific controls to ensure CCHHS meets all federal, state, and 
contractual requirements. Elements of the Corporate Compliance Program include: 
 
1. Written Policies, Procedures and Code of Ethics.  CCHHS has a uniform Code of Ethics that provides 
policies  and  guidelines  for  all  CCHHS  personnel.  The  CCHHS  Code  of  Ethics  applies  to  all  CCHHS 
personnel,  providers,  agents  and  subcontractors.  The  Standards  of  Conduct,  as  well  as  CCHHS’s 
policies  and  procedures,  support  the  organization’s  commitment  to  comply  with  all  federal  and 
state  standards,  including  but  not  limited  to,  applicable  statutes,  regulations  and  sub‐regulatory 
guidance and contractual requirements.  
 
The Code of Ethics will be distributed to CCHHS personnel and updated as necessary.  Training on 
the Code of Ethics will be included in the new hire orientation program.  Staff will be asked to attest 
to receiving the Code.  The Code will also be available on the CCHHS Intranet. 
 
The Chief Compliance and Privacy  Officer will regularly review the Code of  Ethics  to assure that it 
covers significant risks caused by changing regulation and practices.  Recommendations for changes 
to the Code of Ethics will be forwarded to the Chief Executive Officer and to the Audit & Compliance 
Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  which  has  the  authority  to  change  the  Code  of  Ethics  and 
inform CCHHS personnel of these changes.   
 
Additionally,  CCHHS  personnel,  providers,  agents  and  subcontractors  have  access  to  compliance 
documentation via the CCHHS intranet portal and  are provided with copies  of compliance policies 
and  procedures,  upon  request.    CCHHS  Corporate  Compliance  Program  policies  and  procedures 
address the following subject areas:  
 Corporate Compliance Mission and Vision Statement; and 
 Corporate Compliance Program operations, including:  
o Position Descriptions  
o Board, Committee and Subcommittee Charter Statements  
o New Employee and Annual Training 
o Compliance Hotline and Methods for Communication 
o Excluded Providers Sanction Screening 

Page 58 of 102

Page 5 of 9 
As Amended 

 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program  
o Compliance Reporting and Non Retaliation 
o Compliance Auditing and Monitoring 
o Compliance Investigations. 
  
2. Chief Compliance Officer. The Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, and her designees, oversee and 
are  ultimately  responsible  for  developing,  assessing,  and  administering  the  Corporate  Compliance 
Program.  The Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer reports and is accountable to the CCHHS Chief 
Executive  Officer  (CEO)  and  the  CCHHS  Board  of  Directors,  through  the  Audit  &  Compliance 
Committee of the Board.  
 
The Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, and her designees, are responsible for:  
 Serving as an internal consultant and resource for compliance matters; 
 Overseeing  and  monitoring  the  ongoing  functions  of  the  Corporate  Compliance  Program, 
including the overall operations of the CountyCare Compliance Plan; 
 Participating in regular, CCHHS‐wide risk assessments to understand potential vulnerabilities 
 Serving  as  the  Privacy  Officer  for  CCHHS  to  assure  compliance  with  HIPAA  and  applicable 
State laws regarding protection of patient health information; 
 Reporting on a regular basis to the CCHHS governing bodies; 
 Periodically  revising  the  Corporate  Compliance  Program,  with  input  from  the  Audit  & 
Compliance  Committee  of  the  Board  of  Directors  and  Executive  Management,  in  light  of 
changes directed to the needs of CCHHS and applicable laws and policies of federal,  state, 
and local government bodies; 
 Developing, coordinating and participating in training programs that focus on the elements 
of   the  Corporate  Compliance  Program  and  providing  training  such  that  workforce 
members  are  knowledgeable  of  and  comply  with  the  Code  of  Ethics,  compliance  policies, 
laws and regulations; 
 Coordinating and overseeing compliance auditing and monitoring activities; 
 Responding  to  reports  of  issues  or  suspected  violations  related  to  compliance  by 
independently  investigating  these  matters  or,  as  appropriate,  working  with  department 
managers, Human Resources, and General Counsel in the determination of corrective action 
that must be taken; 
 Assuring, through consultation with Human Resources and General Counsel, that the CCHHS 
disciplinary policies and actions are applied fairly, equitably, appropriately, and consistently; 
and 
 Developing  policies  and  programs  that  encourage  CCHHS  personnel  to  report  suspected 
fraud and other improprieties without fear of retaliation or retribution. 
  
3. Effective Training and Education.  Initial and continuing education of CCHHS personnel, agents, and 
subcontractors  is  a  significant  element  of  Corporate  Compliance  Program.    Applicable  personnel, 
agents,  and  subcontractors  receive  training  at  hire/contract  initiation  and  annually  thereafter  on 
their responsibilities under the Corporate Compliance Program, the CCHHS Code of Ethics and the 
HIPAA Privacy and Security, and how to prevent, identify, and report fraud, abuse, and misconduct.  
CountyCare will also provide task oriented and job‐specific compliance training to personnel, agents, 
providers and subcontractors on an as needed basis.   
 

Page 59 of 102

Page 6 of 9 
As Amended 

 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program  
There are policies and procedures in place to ensure that all personnel, agents, and subcontractors 
complete training as mandated by regulatory and contractual obligations. Completion of training is 
documented and maintained, as are the training materials used.   
 
4. Effective  Lines  of  Communication.    CCHHS  has  implemented  clear  policies  and  procedures  for 
reporting  concerns  related  to  compliance,  integrity,  and  fraud,  abuse,  and  misconduct.    All 
personnel,  agents,  and  subcontractors  have  a  duty  to  report  misconduct  including  actual  or 
potential  violations  of  law,  regulation,  policy,  procedure  or  the  CCHHS  Code  of  Ethics  to  their 
supervisor,  another  member  of  management,  Human  Resources  or  the  Chief  Compliance  and 
Privacy Officer. Failure to report a violation may result in appropriate disciplinary action.  Personnel, 
agents,  and  subcontractors  are  protected  from  retaliation  and  harassment  as  a  result  of  having 
reported a good faith compliance or integrity concern.  CCHHS maintains procedures for reporting 
instances of suspected fraud, abuse, or financial misconduct to HFS and OIG.   Additionally, CCHHS 
makes  regular  communications  to  its  employees  and  subcontractors  regarding  compliance 
information and updates.   
Communication mechanisms utilized by CCHHS include:  
 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Hot Line (operating 24 hours a day/7 days a week);  
 CountyCare Member Services Call Center; 
 CountyCare Fraud, Waste and Abuse Hotline; and  
 Compliance plan communications, including emails, flyers, posters, newsletters, and emails 
to  CCHHS  personnel,  contractors  and  CountyCare  plan  members  regarding  compliance 
efforts and initiatives.   
 
5. Well‐Publicized  Disciplinary  Standards.    All  personnel,  agents,  providers  and  subcontractors  are 
informed  that  violations  of  the  Corporate  Compliance  Program,  Code  of  Ethics  or  policies  and 
procedures  will  result  in  appropriate  disciplinary  action  or  sanctions.    For  CCHHS  personnel,  this 
could mean up to and including termination of employment.  Contracts with agents, providers and 
subcontractors contain provisions regarding the organization’s responsibility for adhering to CCHHS 
contractual requirements and applicable state and federal regulations. Non‐compliance may result 
in termination of the contractual relationship with CCHHS, where applicable.   
 
6. Monitoring  and  Auditing.    CCHHS  has  implemented  a  monitoring  and  auditing  program  which 
includes written policies and procedures for routine internal monitoring as well as oversight auditing 
by  the  CCHHS  Office  of  Corporate  Compliance.    The  monitoring  and  auditing  program  tests  and 
confirms compliance with regulatory guidance, contractual agreements, and applicable federal and 
state  laws,  as  well  as  internal  policies  and  procedures  to  protect  against  non‐compliance  and 
potential fraud, abuse, and financial misconduct. Additionally, regular audits of subcontractors and 
agents are conducted to ensure compliance with contractual and regulatory requirements. Auditing 
and  monitoring  activity  is  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  annual  Compliance  Work  Plan, 
developed  by  the  Chief  Compliance  and  Privacy  Officer,  with  input  from  the  CCHHS  Board  of 
Directors,  through  the  Audit  and  Compliance  Committee  of  the  Board.    Results  of  monitoring  and 
auditing  activities,  and  subsequent  corrective  action  plans,  are  reported  to  the  CCHHS  Board  of 
Directors, through the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board.
7. Prompt  Response  to  Detected  Offenses.    CCHHS  has  established  and  implemented  methods  and 
programs  that  encourage  personnel  and  subcontractors  to  report  program  non‐compliance  and 
potential fraud and abuse or financial misconduct without fear of retaliation.  This includes a process 

Page 60 of 102

Page 7 of 9 
As Amended 

 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program  
consistent  with  state  requirements  for  responding  to  reports  of  potential  fraud  and  abuse  or 
misconduct,  including  reporting  such  instances  to  the  HFS  and  HHS  OIGs,  cooperating  with  OIG 
investigations,  and  developing  and  implementing  appropriate  corrective  or  disciplinary  actions,  if 
necessary.  

7.0  Program Authority and Reporting  
The Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer reports to the Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of 
Directors and to the CCHHS Chief Executive Officer. 
 
The Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors has the responsibility for the Corporate 
Compliance  Program  for  all  CCHHS  affiliates.    The  Committee,  composed  of  independent  directors, 
provides  oversight  to  the  CCHHS  Corporate  Compliance  Program.    The  Committee  advises  the  Board 
regarding  the  implementation  of  standards  and  processes  to  assure  professional  responsibility  and 
honest behavior, identification of areas of potential compliance  vulnerability  and risk, and compliance 
with regulatory requirements.   
 
The Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer reports regularly to the Audit & Compliance Committee.   The 
reports to the Committee may include the following: 
 The annual compliance work plan, including the auditing and monitoring plan and priorities; 
 Summaries  of  ongoing  auditing  and  monitoring  activities  of  the  Corporate  Compliance  Office, 
including tracking of recommendations and corrective actions; 
 Results  of  specific  compliance  audits  conducted  by  or  on  behalf  of  the  Corporate  Compliance 
Program; 
 Summaries of calls received by the Compliance Hot Line and remediation efforts; 
 Summaries  of  investigations  conducted  by  the  Corporate  Compliance  Office  and 
results/remediation; 
 Areas of compliance risk, including patient privacy and confidentiality; 
 Information  regarding  the  results  of  any  governmental  audits,  investigations,  or  activities 
undertaken at CCHHS; 
 Education for the Audit & Compliance Committee on topics related to Compliance, Privacy, or 
new regulatory initiatives affecting CCHHS; and/or 
 Discussions of specific topics that are potential areas of compliance vulnerability and risk.
 
Reports that concern subject matter which meets an applicable exception under the Open Meetings Act 
(5 ILCS 120(2)) will be provided in a closed meeting forum, with such meeting closed in accordance with 
Section 2(a) of the Closed Meeting Act (5 ILCS 120/2a). 
 
The Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer has the authority to access and review all documentation and 
other information that is relevant to CCHHS compliance activities, including, but not limited to, patient 
records,  billing  records,  employee  records,  computer  audit  files,  and  arrangements  between  the 
hospitals  and  other  parties,  including  employees,  professionals  on  staff,  independent  contractors, 
suppliers, agents and physicians.   

Page 61 of 102

Page 8 of 9 
As Amended 

 CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program  

8.0  Periodic Program Assessment 
The Corporate Compliance Program  will be assessed internally,  on an ongoing basis, or at a  minimum 
once per year.  An assessment by an outside consultant shall occur every 3 to 5 years to assure that the 
Corporate Compliance Program is current, accurately assesses the risk areas facing CCHHS, and devotes 
the appropriate amount of resources required to provide an effective compliance program.   

9.0  Reporting Compliance Concerns 
CCHHS  supports  a  safe,  non‐threatening  environment  where  individuals  may  ask  questions  about 
integrity and compliance, fraud, abuse and financial misconduct matters and report their concerns. As 
part  of  the  CCHHS  commitment  to  mission  and  core  values,  anyone  who  has  a  concern  has  an 
opportunity  to  report  those  concerns  confidentially  and  without  fear  of  retaliation.  Concerns  may  be 
submitted  in  a  number  of  different  ways,  including  to  the  CCHHS  Corporate  Compliance  Hotline  at  1‐
866‐489‐4949. 
CCHHS encourages personnel to first speak with their manager or supervisor about any concerns. If they 
are  uncomfortable  or  unsure  about  how  to  do  this,  CCHHS  Office  of  Corporate  Compliance  staff 
members are available to help.  
 
Those who report compliance concerns are protected from retaliation and harassment.  Concerns about 
possible  retaliation  or  harassment  stemming  from  a  compliance  report  may  be  reported  to  the  Chief 
Compliance and Privacy Officer, or human resources personnel.   
 

Page 62 of 102

Page 9 of 9 
As Amended 

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #6

Page 63 of 102

 CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   
The   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan,   
§  Summarizes   the   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan,   as   required   
by   the   Managed   Care   Community   Network   (MCCN)   Contract   
with   the   Department   of   Healthcare   and   Family   Services   
(HFS).   
§  Parallels   the   elements   of   an   eﬀecKve   compliance   program   
recommended      through   Federal   Sentencing   Guidelines   and   
Compliance   Program   Guidance   and   is   required   by   CMS   
Managed   Care   Program   Integrity   requirements.      The   
CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   also   contains   addiKonal   
informaKon   regarding   CountyCare   procedures   to   prevent   
and   detect   fraud,   waste   and   abuse   and   manage   grievances   
and   appeals.      
§  The   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   will   be   managed   and   
maintained   by   the   CCHHS   Oﬃce   of   Corporate   Compliance,   in   
collaboraKon   with   the   Third   Party   Administrator,   IlliniCare.   
         
§  AcKon:   Review   and   Approve   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

4   

Page 64 of 102

    

   
   
   
   
   
   
   

   
   
   
   

CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   

Insert   Date   of   Adoption
   
   
   
   
   
   
PROGRAM   LEAD:       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
APPROVAL   PARTIES:   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

                     

   
   
   
   
   

Cathy   Bodnar,   MS,   RN,   CHC       
   
Chief   Compliance   and   Privacy   Officer          
Cook   County   Health   &   Hospitals   System   
   
   

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

Audit   &   Compliance   Committee   of   the   Cook   County   
Health   &   Hospitals   System   Board   of   Directors   
   
Approved   on   <<insert   date>>   
   
   
John   Jay   Shannon,   MD   
Chief   Executive   Officer   
Cook   County   Health   &   Hospitals   System   
Electronically   Approved   on   January   30,   2015   

   

Page 65 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Compliance   Plan   

Table   of   Contents   
   
1.0   

Introduction   ......................................................................................................................................   3   

2.0   

Purpose   ............................................................................................................................................   3   

3.0   

Definitions   ........................................................................................................................................   4   

4.0   

CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   Overview   ...........................................................................................   5   

5.0   

CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   Elements   ...........................................................................................   5   

6.0   

Reporting   Compliance   Concerns   ......................................................................................................   8   

7.0   

Fraud   and   Abuse   Procedures   ...........................................................................................................   8   

   

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

   

Page   2   of   9   
   

Page 66 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Compliance   Plan   

1.0    Introduction   
CountyCare   is   a   Managed   Care   Community   Network   (“MCCN”)   plan   offered   by   Cook   County   Health   and   
Hospitals    System    (“CCHHS”)    pursuant    to    a    contract    with    the    Illinois    Department    of    Healthcare    and   
Family    Services    (“HFS”).            CountyCare   is    designed    to    provide    coverage    for    any    Cook    County    Medicaid   
eligible    beneficiaries    and    transform    CCHHS    into    a    patient-­‐centered    continuum    of    care.        The    operation    of   
the   CountyCare   MCCN   is   facilitated   through   CCHHS   and   its   various   subcontractors.   All   personnel   tasked   
with    CountyCare    operational    responsibilities    are    CCHHS    personnel    or    subcontractors,    agents    and    non-­‐
CCHHS   providers.         
As   an   integral   part   of   CCHHS,   CountyCare   will   uphold   the   mission,   vision,   and   core   goals   of   the   system   by   
establishing   and   supporting   a   system-­‐wide   culture   of   honesty   and   respect   to   guide   individual’s   actions   
by    developing    standards,    increasing    awareness,    and    promoting    honest    behavior    and    professional   
responsibility   through   education,   awareness,   and   shared   accountability   that   promotes   compliance   with   
applicable   laws,   regulations,   and   system   policies.   
CountyCare    has    developed    this    CountyCare    Compliance    Plan    to    demonstrate    its    commitment    to   
promoting    ethical    and    lawful    conduct    consistent    with    all    applicable    laws,    regulations,    and    contractual   
requirements,    as    well    as    CCHHS    policies,    procedures,    and    Code    of    Ethics/Standards    of    Conduct.    The   
CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   is   structured   around   the   elements   of   an   effective   compliance   program   as   
recommended    in    the    Department    of    Health    and    Human    Services    Office    of    Inspector    General    (“OIG”)   
Compliance    Program    Guidance    publications    and    required    by    the    Centers    for    Medicare    &    Medicaid   
Services    (“CMS”)    Managed    Care    Program    Integrity    requirements    found    at    42    C.F.R.    §438.608.        Upon   
implementation,   the   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   will   be   managed   and   maintained   by   the   CCHHS   Office   
of   Corporate   Compliance.         

2.0    Purpose   
All    personnel    are    expected    to    uphold    honest    and    ethical    behavior,    comply    with    laws,    regulations,    and   
system   policies,   and   to   fulfill   their   responsibilities   as   important   members   of   the   CCHHS   organization.         In   
order   to   preserve   this   environment,   all   personnel,   agents,   providers,   and   subcontractors   are   expected   to   
demonstrate    the    highest    ethical    standards    in    performing    their    daily    tasks.    The    purpose    of    the   
CountyCare    Compliance    Plan    is    to    communicate    the    compliance    expectations    to    all    CountyCare   
stakeholders,    including    those    related    to    the    prevention    and    detection    of    fraud,    abuse,    and    financial   
misconduct    within    plan    operations.        This    communication    is    intended    to    reduce    the    likelihood    of   
improper   conduct   within   the   CountyCare   organization   and   among   its   many   stakeholders.         
   
Further,   the   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   outlines   guidelines   to:      
• Comply    with    the    CMS    Managed    Care    Program    Integrity    requirements    and    the    terms    of    the   
CountyCare   Health   Plan   contract   with   HFS;   
• Prevent,   detect   and   eliminate   fraud,      abuse,   and   financial   misconduct;      
• Protect    health    plan    members,    providers,    CountyCare    and    the    State    from    potential    fraudulent   
activities;   and   
• Understand    and    focus    on    high-­‐risk    areas    that    have    the    greatest    potential    for    non-­‐compliance   
with   federal   and   state   regulatory   and   contractual   requirements.      

Page   3   of   9   
   

Page 67 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Compliance   Plan   

3.0    Definitions   and   Abbreviations   
Abuse   means      (i)   a   manner   of   operation   that   results   in   excessive   or   unreasonable   costs   to   the   Federal   or   
State    health    care    programs,    generally    used    in    conjunction    with    Fraud;    or    (ii)    the    willful    infliction    of   
injury,    unreasonable    confinement,    intimidation,    or    punishment    with    resulting    physical    harm,    pain    or   
mental   anguish,   generally   used   in   conjugation   with   Neglect.         
Centers   for   Medicare   &   Medicaid   Services    (CMS)    means    the    agency    within    DHHS    that    is    responsible    for   
the   administration   of   the   Medicare   program   and,   in   partnership   with   the   states,   administers   Medicaid,   
the    State    Children’s    Health    Insurance    Program    (SCHIP),    and    the    Health    Insurance    Portability    and   
Accountability   Act   (HIPAA).   
DHHS   means   the   United   States   Department   of   Health   and   Human   Services.   
DHS   means   the   Illinois   Department   of   Human   Services,   and   any   successor   agency.      
DHS-­‐OIG    means    the    Department    of    Human    Services    Office    of    Inspector    General    that    is    the    entity   
responsible   for   investigating   allegations   of   Abuse   and   Neglect   of   people   who   receive   Mental   Health   or   
Developmental   Disabilities   services   in   Illinois   and   for   seeking   ways   to   prevent   such   Abuse   and   Neglect.         
Fraud    means    knowing    and    willful    deception,    or    a    reckless    disregard    of    the    facts,    with    the    intent    to   
receive   an   unauthorized   benefit.   
HFS    means    the    Illinois    Department    of    Healthcare    and    Family    Services    and    any    successor    agency    (may   
also   be   referred   to   as   “Agency”   or   “the   Department”).      
Health    Plan    means   a   delivery   system   of   coordinated   services   that   a   Potential   Enrollee   or   Enrollee   may   
select    or    be    assigned    to    for    health    care,    as    implemented    by    the    Department.    A    Health    Plan    includes   
delivery   systems   such   as   a   HMO,   MCCN,   Care   Coordination   Entity   and   Accountable   Care   Entity.   
Managed    Care    Organization    (MCO)    means    an    entity    that    meets    the    definition    of    managed    care   
organization   as   defined   at   42   CFR   438.2   and   that   has   a   contract   with   the   Department   to   provide   Covered   
Services    under    the    Medicaid    Program.        It    includes    a    Managed    Care    Community    Network    (MCCN),   
including   the   County   MCCN   operated   by   CountyCare,   and   may   also   include   another   such   entity   with   a   
contract   with   the   Department   to   provide   Covered   Services   in   the   Contracting   Area.   
Mandated    Reporting    means    immediate    reporting    required    from    a    mandated    reporter    of    suspected   
maltreatment   when   the   mandated   reporter   has   reasonable   cause   to   believe   that   an   individual   known   to   
the   mandated   reporter   in   a   professional   or   official   capacity   may   be   Abused   or   Neglected.               
Office   of   Inspector   General   (OIG)   means   the   Office   of   Inspector   General   for   the      Department   as   set   forth   
in   305   ILCS   5/12-­‐13.1.   
Personnel   includes   CCHHS   employees,   medical   staff,   house   staff,   research   staff,   Board   members,   Board   
appointed   committee   members,   volunteers,   students,   consultants,   agency   personnel,   and   vendors.   
Plan   Member   means   a   Participant   who   is   enrolled   in   the   CountyCare   Health   Plan.         
Provider   means   a   Person   enrolled   with   the   Department    to   provide   Covered   Services   to   CountyCare   plan   
members.         

Page   4   of   9   
   

Page 68 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Compliance   Plan   
State    means    the    State    of    Illinois,    as    represented    through    any    State    agency,    department,    board,    or   
commission.   
Subcontractor   means   an   entity,   including   a   Provider,   with   which   CountyCare   has   entered   into   a   written   
agreement   for   the   purpose   of   delegating   responsibilities   applicable   to   CountyCare.   

4.0    CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   Overview      
The    Chief    Compliance    and    Privacy    Officer,    in    consultation    with    Senior    Leadership,    the    Compliance   
Oversight   Committee,   and   the   CCHHS   Board   of   Directors,   through   the   Audit   &   Compliance   Committee   of   
the    Board    of    Directors,    are    responsible    for    coordinating    the    implementation    of    the    CountyCare   
Compliance   Plan.      The   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   is   subject   to   ongoing   review   and   revision   as   deemed   
necessary    to    ensure    compliance.        It    is    designed    to    accommodate    future    changes    in    regulations    and    laws   
and   may   be   updated   to   address   issues   not   currently   covered   or   issues   related   to   new   service   offerings   or   
regulatory   requirements.   

5.0    CountyCare   Compliance   Plan   Elements      
CountyCare’s   Compliance   Plan   incorporates   the   seven   elements   of   an   effective   compliance   program   as   
mandated   by   the   CMS   Managed   Care   Program   Integrity   requirements.      It   includes   the   following   specific   
controls    to    ensure    CountyCare    meets    all    federal,    state,    and    contractual    requirements.    Elements    of   
CountyCare’s   Compliance   Plan   include:   
   
1. Written   Policies,   Procedures   and   Standards   of   Conduct.   The   CCHHS   Standards   of   Conduct   applies   to   
all   CountyCare   personnel,   providers,   agents   and   subcontractors.   The   Standards   of   Conduct,   as   well   
as    CCHHS’s    policies    and    procedures,    support    CountyCare’s    commitment    to    comply    with    all    federal   
and   state   standards,   including   but   not   limited   to,   applicable   statutes,   regulations   and   sub-­‐regulatory   
guidance   and   contractual   requirements.      
   
CountyCare    personnel,    providers,    agents    and    subcontractors    have    access    to    compliance   
documentation    via    the    CCHHS    intranet    portal    and    are    provided    with    copies    of    compliance    policies   
and    procedures,    upon    request.        CountyCare    compliance    policies    and    procedures    address    the   
following   subject   areas:      
• Standards   of   Conduct/Code   of   Ethics   
• Corporate   Compliance   Mission   and   Vision   Statement   
• Compliance   Program   operations,   including:      
o Position   Descriptions      
o Board,   Committee   and   Subcommittee   Charter   Statements      
o New   Employee   and   Annual   Training   
o Compliance   Hotline   and   Methods   for   Communication   
o Excluded   Providers   Sanction   Screening   
o Compliance   Reporting   and   Non   Retaliation   
o Compliance   Auditing   and   Monitoring   
o Compliance   Investigations   
• Fraud,   Waste,   Abuse   and   Financial   Misconduct      
• Cultural   Competency      
• Conflict   of   Interest         
Page   5   of   9   
   

Page 69 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Compliance   Plan   
   
2. Compliance    Officer    and    Compliance    Oversight    Committee.            The    CCHHS    Chief    Compliance    and   
Privacy   Officer,   CCHHS   Compliance   Officer   assigned   to   CountyCare,   and   their   designees,   oversee   and   
are   ultimately   responsible   for   developing,   assessing,   and   administering   the   CountyCare   Compliance   
Plan.        The    CCHHS    Chief    Compliance    Privacy    Officer    reports    and    is    accountable    to    the    CCHHS    Chief   
Executive    Officer    (CEO)    and    the    CCHHS    Board    of    Directors,    through    the    Audit    &    Compliance   
Committee   of   the   Board.      
   
The   CCHHS   Chief   Compliance   and   Privacy   Officer,   and   her   designees,   are   responsible   for:      
• Overseeing   the   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan;      
• Managing   the   complaint,   grievance   and   fair   hearing   process;      
• Serving    as    the    primary    liaison    with    HFS    to    facilitate    communications    between    HFS    and   
CountyCare   executive   leadership   and   staff;   and   
• Ensuring    and    verifying    the    fraud    and    abuse    is    reported    in    accordance    with    regulatory   
requirements.   
The    CountyCare    Compliance    Oversight    Committee    is    tasked    with    general    oversight    of    the   
CountyCare    Compliance    Plan    operations    and    overall    support    of    the    CountyCare    culture    of   
compliance.      Specifically,   the   CountyCare   Compliance   Oversight   Committee   is   responsible   for:      
• Overseeing   the   implementation   of   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan;   
• Providing    oversight    and    guidance    regarding    CountyCare    operations    to    fulfill    Compliance   
program   requirements   and   monitor   corrective   action   plans   as   necessary;   
• Meeting   on   a   monthly   basis,   and   as   needed;      
• Appointing   a   liaison   to   HFS   to   report   potential   fraud,   abuse,   or   financial   misconduct;      
• Ensuring    compliance    with    quarterly    COUNTYCARE    HEALTH    PLAN    fraud,    abuse    or    financial   
misconduct   reporting   requirements;      and   
• Reporting   to   CCHHS   Board   of   Directors,   through   the   Audit   &   Compliance   Committee   of   the   
Board,   and   the   CEO.         
   
3. Effective    Training    and    Education.        Initial   and   continuing   education   of   personnel,   agents,   providers   
and    subcontractors    is    a    significant    element    of    CountyCare’s    Compliance    Plan.       Applicable    personnel,   
agents,    providers    and    subcontractors    receive    training    at    hire/contract    initiation    and    annually   
thereafter   on   their   responsibilities   under   the   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan,   the   CCHHS   Standards   of   
Conduct/   Code   of   Ethics,   the   CountyCare   Cultural   Competency   Plan,   HIPAA   Privacy   and   Security,   and   
how    to    prevent,    identify,    and    report    fraud,    abuse,    and    financial    misconduct.        CountyCare    will    also   
provide    task    oriented    and    job-­‐specific    compliance    training    to    personnel,    agents,    providers    and   
subcontractors   on   an   as   needed   basis.         
   
There    are    policies    and    procedures    in    place    to    ensure    that    all    personnel,    agents,    providers    and   
subcontractors    complete    training    as    mandated    by    regulatory    and    contractual    obligations.   
Completion   of   training   is   documented   and   maintained,   as   are   the   training   materials   used.         
   
4. Effective   Lines   of   Communication.      CountyCare   has   implemented   clear   policies   and   procedures   for   
reporting   concerns   related   to   compliance,   integrity,   and   fraud,   abuse,   and   financial   misconduct.      All   
personnel,   agents,   providers   and   subcontractors   have   a   duty   to   report   misconduct   including   actual   
or    potential    violations    of    law,    regulation,    policy,    procedure    or    the    CCHHS    Standards    of   
Conduct/Code   of   Ethics   to   their   supervisor,   another   member   of   management,   Human   Resources   or   
Page   6   of   9   
   

Page 70 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Compliance   Plan   
the    Chief    Compliance    and    Privacy    Officer.    Failure    to    report    a    violation    may    result    in    appropriate   
disciplinary   action.      Personnel,   agents,   providers   and   subcontractors   are   protected   from   retaliation   
and    harassment    as    a    result    of    having    reported    a    good    faith    compliance    or    integrity    concern.      
CountyCare    maintains    procedures    for    reporting    instances    of    suspected    fraud,    abuse,    or    financial   
misconduct   to   HFS   and   OIG.       Additionally,   CCHHS   makes   regular   communications   to   its   employees   
and   subcontractors   regarding   compliance   information   and   updates.         
Communication   mechanisms   utilized   by   CountyCare   include:      
• CCHHS   Corporate   Compliance   Hot   Line   (operating   24   hours   a   day/7   days   a   week)      
• CountyCare   Member   Services   Call   Center   
• CountyCare   Fraud,   Waste   and   Abuse   Hotline   
• CountyCare    Compliance    Plan    communications,    including    emails,    flyers,    posters,    newsletters,   
and    emails    to    CountyCare    employees,    contractors    and    members    regarding    compliance   
efforts   and   initiatives.         
   
5. Well-­‐Publicized    Disciplinary    Standards.        All    personnel,    agents,    providers    and    subcontractors    are   
informed   that   violations   of   the   CountyCare   Compliance   Plan,   Standards   of   Conduct/Code   of   Ethics   or   
policies    and    procedures    will    result    in    appropriate    disciplinary    action    or    sanctions.        For    CountyCare   
personnel,    this    could    mean    up    to    and    including    termination    of    employment.        Contracts    with    agents,   
providers    and    subcontractors    contain    provisions    regarding    the    organization’s    responsibility    for   
adhering   to   CountyCare   contractual   requirements   and   applicable   state   and   federal   regulations.   Non-­‐
compliance    may   result   in   termination   of   the   contractual   relationship   with    CountyCare   and   CCHHS,   
where   applicable.         
   
6. Monitoring   and   Auditing.      CountyCare   has   implemented   a   monitoring   and   auditing   program   which   
includes   written   policies   and   procedures   for   routine   internal   monitoring   as   well   as   oversight   auditing   
by    the    CCHHS    Office    of    Corporate    Compliance.        The    monitoring    and    auditing    program    tests    and   
confirms    compliance    with    CMS    and    HFS    managed    care    requirements,    regulatory    guidance,   
contractual    agreements,    and    applicable    federal    and    state    laws,    as    well    as    internal    policies    and   
procedures    to    protect    against    non-­‐compliance    and    potential    fraud,    abuse,    and    financial    misconduct.
Additionally,    regular    audits    of    subcontractors,    agents    and    providers    are    conducted    to    ensure   
compliance    with    contractual    and    regulatory    requirements.    Auditing    and    monitoring    activity    is   
conducted    in    accordance    with    the    annual    Compliance    Work    Plan,    developed    and    approved    by    the   
CountyCare    Compliance    Oversight    Committee,    with    input    from    the    CCHHS    Board    of    Directors,   
through    the    Audit    and    Compliance    Committee    of    the    Board.        Results    of    monitoring    and    auditing   
activities,    and    subsequent    corrective    action    plans,    are    reported    to    the    CountyCare    Compliance   
Oversight    Committee    and    the    CCHHS    Board    of    Directors,    through    the    Audit    and    Compliance   
Committee   of   the   Board.
7. Prompt    Response    to    Detected    Offenses.        CountyCare    has    established    and    implemented    methods   
and    programs    that    encourage    personnel    and    subcontractors    to    report    program    non-­‐compliance    and   
potential   fraud   and   abuse   or   financial   misconduct   without   fear   of   retaliation.      This   includes   a   process   
consistent   with   HFS   contractual   requirements   for   responding   to   reports   of   potential   fraud   and   abuse   
or    financial    misconduct,    including    reporting    such    instances    to    the    OIG,    cooperating    with    OIG   
investigations,    and    developing    and    implementing    appropriate    corrective    or    disciplinary    actions,    if   
necessary.    

Page   7   of   9   
   

Page 71 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Compliance   Plan   

6.0    Reporting   Compliance   Concerns   
CountyCare    supports    a    safe,    non-­‐threatening    environment    where    individuals    may    ask    questions    about   
integrity   and   compliance,   fraud,   abuse   and   financial   misconduct   matters   and   report   their   concerns.   As   
part    of    the    CountyCare    commitment    to    mission    and    core    values,    anyone    who    has    a    concern    has    an   
opportunity    to    report    those    concerns    confidentially    and    without    fear    of    retaliation.    Concerns    may    be   
submitted   in   a   number   of   different   ways   which   include:   
•
•
•

CountyCare   Member   Services   Call   Center:   1-­‐312-­‐864-­‐8200   
CountyCare   Fraud,   Waste   and   Abuse   Hotline:      1-­‐866-­‐685-­‐8664      
CCHHS   Corporate   Compliance   Hotline:      1-­‐866-­‐489-­‐4949   

   
CountyCare   encourages   personnel   to   first   speak   with   their   manager   or   supervisor   about   any   concerns.   If   
they    are    uncomfortable    or    unsure    about    how    to    do    this,    CCHHS    Office    of    Corporate    Compliance    staff   
members   are   available   to   help.      
   
Those   who   report   compliance   concerns   are   protected   from   retaliation   and   harassment.      Concerns   about   
possible    retaliation    or    harassment    stemming    from    a    compliance    report    may    be    reported    to    the    Chief   
Compliance   and   Privacy   Officer,   or   human   resources   personnel.         

7.0    Fraud   and   Abuse   Procedures      
CountyCare    is    dedicated    to    preventing,    detecting    and    reporting    health    care    fraud,    waste,    abuse    and   
financial    misconduct,    as    is    required    by    federal    and    state    statutory,    regulatory    and    contractual   
obligations.        As    such,    there    are    multiple    processes    and    procedures    in    place    to    prevent,    detect,   
investigate    and    report,    as    necessary,    suspected    instances    of    Fraud,    Abuse    or    financial    misconduct   
involved    in    CountyCare    operations.        Additionally,    where    these    instances    arise,    CountyCare    has    an   
affirmative   contractual   obligation   to   report   this   information   to   the   HFS   OIG.         
   
Fraud   and   Abuse   Oversight   Structure   
Below    is    an    organization    chart    outlining    the    oversight    structure    for    fraud    and    abuse    monitoring    and   
reporting   activities.      
Key:      
   
      
CCHHS   
CCHHS   Board   of   
   
Directors   
   
CountyCare   
   
   
CountyCare
/IlliniCare   
CCHHS   BOD   Audit   &   
   
   
Compliance   
   
Committee   
   
   
   
CountyCare   
   
Compliance   Oversight   
   
Committee   
   
   

   

Delegated   Oversight   
Committee   

Fraud,   Waste   and   
Abuse   Workgroup   

Page 72 of 102

Page   8   of   9   

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Compliance   Plan   
   
   
Fraud   and   Abuse   Monitoring   Procedures      
CountyCare,    in    coordination    with    its    CountyCare    Third    Party    Administrator    (TPA),    have    developed    and   
implemented   the   following   fraud   and   abuse   procedures:      
• All    CountyCare    personnel,    agents,    providers,    and    subcontractors    are    contractually    required    to   
report   any   instances   of   suspected   or   actual   fraud,   abuse   or   financial   misconduct.         
• Payment    Integrity    (PI)    efforts    dedicated    to    detecting,    preventing    and    recovering    potential    Fraud   
Waste    and    Abuse    payments,    including    claims    edits    and    post-­‐processing    review    of    claims.    (See   
CountyCare   Fraud,   Waste   and   Abuse   Plan   for   more   detail).         
• Special    Investigation    Units    (SIU)    operations    to    identify,    investigate,    remediate    and    report   
instances    of    Fraud    Waste    and    Abuse,    as    required    by    the   COUNTYCARE    HEALTH    PLAN    agreement   
and   the   state.   (See   CountyCare   Fraud,   Waste   and   Abuse   Plan   for   more   detail).   
• Explanation    of    Benefits    (EOB)    Service    Verification    notices    are    sent    to    members    to    identify    to   
identify   phantom   providers   or   services   that   were   not   performed.   
• Fraud,    Waste    and    Abuse    training    is    provided    for    all    personnel,    agents,    subcontractors    and   
providers    to    explain    the    procedures    for    reporting,    as    well    as    provide    background        information   
and   examples   of   possible   fraud,   abuse   or   financial   misconduct.      
• Provider   credentialing   processes   ensure   that   all   providers   have   a   Medicaid   Provider   Number   and   
meet    credentialing    guidelines    established    by    CountyCare    prior    to    providing    services    to   
CountyCare   members.            
• Sanction    and    Exclusion    Screening    is    performed    for    all    CountyCare    personnel,    agents,   
subcontractors   and   providers   upon   hire   and   monthly,   as   required   by   the   COUNTYCARE   HEALTH   
PLAN   agreement.         
• Regular   oversight   is   exercised   over   subcontractors   and   delegated   entities   (also   known   as   vendor   
oversight)    to    ensure    any    potential    issues    that    are    detected    and    reported    by    contractors    and   
vendors   are   appropriately   identified,   investigated   and   remediated.         
• Monthly    FWA    Workgroup    meetings    are    responsible    for    reviewing    Payment    Integrity    (PI)    and   
Special   Investigations   Unit   (SIU)   results,   taking   appropriate   action,   and   assisting   the   PI/SIU   group   
in   procuring   relevant   information.            
• Monthly    CountyCare    Compliance    Oversight    Committee    meetings    are    held    to    discuss    new    and   
outstanding    FWA    issues    and    to    provide    oversight    and    guidance    of    CountyCare    operations    to   
fulfill   Compliance   program   requirements   and   monitor   corrective   action   plans   as   necessary.   
• Timely   submission   of   reports   regarding   any   suspected   fraud,   abuse,   or   financial   misconduct   by   
CountyCare   members,   providers,   employees   or   contractors   to   the   HFS   OIG.         
• Submission    of    quarterly    reports    outlining    all    instances    of    suspected    fraud,    abuse    or    financial   
misconduct   to   the   HFS   OIG.   
   
   

Page   9   of   9   
   

Page 73 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #7

Page 74 of 102

 Expanding   the   Role      
of   the   Chief   Compliance   Oﬃcer   
DesignaKon   of   the   Chief   Compliance   Oﬃcer      
§  Supports   contractual   obligaKon   to   deﬁne   and   delegate   
compliance   responsibiliKes   for   the   Health   Plan.      
§  Comports   with   best   pracKce   for   Board   and   CEO   approval.   
§  ExisKng   job   descripKon   of   the   Chief   Compliance   and   
Privacy   Oﬃcer   job   allows   for   incorporaKon   of   duKes.      
   
§  AcKon:   Review   and   Approve   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

5   

Page 75 of 102

 NON-DIRECT PATIENT CARE JOB DESCRIPTION
TITLE:
Job Code:
Reports To:

Chief Compliance Officer
Grade:
CCHHS Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer

24

POSITION SUMMARY
Brief summary of position.

The Chief Compliance Officer is also the Chief Privacy Officer, this position reflects the mission and vision of Cook
County Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS) and oversees the CCHHS Corporate Compliance Program1, functioning as
an independent and objective body that reviews and evaluates compliance issues/concerns within the organization. The
position ensures the Board of Directors, senior management and workforce are in compliance with the rules and
regulations of regulatory agencies, that company policies and procedures are being followed, and that behavior in the
organization meets the CCHHS Standards of Conduct (Code of Ethics).
The Corporate Compliance Office exists (1) as a channel of communication to receive and direct compliance issues to
appropriate CCHHS resources for investigation and resolution, and (2) as a final internal resource with which concerned
parties may communicate after other formal channels and resources have been exhausted.
REPORTING STRUCTURE
The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the CCHHS Board of Directors through the Audit and Compliance Committee of
the Board and the Chief Executive Officer.
RESPONSIBILITIES
Fundamental job duties for which this position is accountable.













Provides oversight and guidance for the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, and senior management on
matters relating to compliance.
Monitors and reports results of organizational compliance/ethics efforts. The Chief Compliance Officer is authorized
to implement all necessary actions to ensure achievement of the objectives of an effective compliance program.
Develops, initiates, maintains, and revises policies, procedures and practices for the general operation of CCHHS
and its related activities to prevent illegal, unethical, or improper conduct.
Guides and partners with operational leadership to facilitate operational ownership of compliance.
Monitors organizational compliance activities of CCHHS.
Develops and periodically reviews and updates Standards of Conduct to ensure continuing relevance in providing
guidance to management and employees.
Collaborates with operational areas throughout the organization to direct compliance issues to appropriate channels
for investigation and resolution. Consults with the legal counsel as needed to resolve difficult legal compliance
issues.
Responds to alleged violations of rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and the CCHHS Standards of Conduct by
evaluating or recommending the initiation of investigative procedures. Develops and oversees a system for uniform
handling of such violations.
Acts as an independent review and evaluation body to ensure that compliance issues/concerns are being
appropriately evaluated, investigated and resolved.
Identifies potential areas of compliance vulnerability and risk; develops/implements corrective action plans for
resolution of problematic issues, and provides general guidance on how to avoid or deal with similar situations in the
future.

1

Section 6401 of the Affordable Care Act requires healthcare providers participating in federal healthcare programs to establish compliance and ethics programs
that contain certain “core elements” as a condition of participation. The core elements can be found within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
Office of Inspector General published Compliance Program Guidance in 1998 and Supplemental Guidance in 2005, these documents, along with the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines provide the foundation for Compliance Programs.

Page- 76
1 - of 102

 










Ensures proper hospital reporting of violations or potential violations to duly authorized enforcement agencies as
appropriate and/or required.
Establishes and provides direction and management of a system compliance hot line.
Establishes and monitors a system to log and track all concerns/issues raised to Corporate Compliance.
Institutes and maintains an effective compliance communication program for the organization, including promoting
(a) use of the compliance hotline, (b) heightened awareness of ABC Hospital codes of conduct, and (c)
understanding of new and existing compliance issues and related policies and procedures.
Works with CCHHS Human Resources Department and others as appropriate to develop an effective compliance
training program, including appropriate introductory training for new employees as well as ongoing training for all
employees and managers.
Monitors the performance of the Compliance Program and related activities on a continuing basis, taking appropriate
steps to improve it effectiveness.
Supervises the Corporate Compliance Department to insure department goals are met.
Provides reports on a regular basis, and as directed or requested, to keep the Board of Directors and senior
management informed of the operation and progress of compliance efforts.

EDUCATION/EXPERIENCE QUALIFICATIONS
Level of education and experience that is required for the position.
Required
 Masters Degree in Healthcare, Business, Education, or related field.
 Professional Certification: Certified in Heathcare Compliance (CHC)
 Ten (10) years experience in a healthcare organization, to include demonstrated leadership. Familiarity with
operational, financial, quality assurance, and human resource procedures and regulations is necessary.
 Five+ (5+) years recent leadership experience in healthcare compliance
 Seven+ (7+) years of conducting complex healthcare compliance investigations
 Maintains a high degree of credibility, independence, integrity, confidentiality and trust. Strong communication and
leadership skills are essential.
 Demonstrates sound business judgment and is supportive of the system mission and objectives. Commands respect of
the senior management team, board level committees and other members of the compliance team.
 Strives to develop partnerships, teamwork and good working relationships. Maintains an open management style.
 Understands the complexities of a large, diverse, public, safety-net organization. Involves others appropriately in
consultations and decisions.
 Understands the legal regulatory framework of the entity.
 Exhibits analytical skills and an understanding of operational processes and technology concepts.
 Maintains strong writing skills required to write and edit policies and procedures, issue memorandums and compile
program reports.
 Exhibits exceptional presentation skills with large and small audiences.
 Able to operate successfully in a constantly changing, fast-paced environment. Demonstrates initiative, self-motivation,
practical learning skills, enthusiasm, and an ability to complete multiple tasks in a timely and accurate manner.
 Software application skills – MS Office Access, Excel, PowerPoint, and Word.
Desired
 Juris Doctor (J.D.)
 Professional Certification: RHIA, RN, CPA, or CFE, Current & Active
Note:
This job description was developed through the review of multiple position descriptions published through the Heath Care Compliance Association (HCCA), a
nationally recognized professional organization of healthcare compliance professionals.

Page- 77
2 - of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #8

Page 78 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan      
Oversight   MeeKngs   
Oversight   meeKngs   
§  Fulﬁlls   our   contractual   requirement   to   manage   and   provide   
oversight   for   health   plan   operaKons.         
   
§  AcKon:   None.   Awareness   only.   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

6   

Page 79 of 102

 CountyCare   Health   Plan   Oversight   Committee   Meetings   
HEALTH PLAN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MEETING DESCRIPTION
Note: These oversight meetings fulfill MCCN requirements to have internal operational committees to manage and provide oversight for health plan
operations. This document summarizes the various oversight committees.

Executive Committee
The CountyCare Executive Committee meets monthly and is comprised of CCHHS senior delegates and CountyCare leadership. The
Executive Committee is responsible for providing the oversight, guidance and support to CountyCare leadership to support the
achievement of agreed upon goals in a manner consistent with a provider sponsored organization and focused on improving the health
status of underserved/at–risk populations in a fiscally appropriate manner. The Executive Committee will provide useful feedback to
Plan leadership regarding Plan performance and promote alignment between CCHHS objectives and Plan programs.
Frequency: Monthly
CountyCare Finance Committee
The committee meets monthly and is responsible for recommending financial policies, goals, and budgets that support the mission,
values, and strategic goals of CountyCare. The committee also reviews the organization’s financial performance against its goals and
proposes major transactions and programs to the board.
Frequency: Monthly
CountyCare Compliance Committee
This committee provides oversight of and guidance to CountyCare operations to fulfill Compliance Program requirements, which
include the implementation and operation of the Compliance Program. The Compliance Committee will review CountyCare activity
pursuant to Compliance Program requirements and contractual requirements. This would include reviews of, but not limited to, audits,
monitoring activity, and corrective action plans. Based on these reports, the Compliance Committee will make recommendations to
operations as necessary.
Frequency: Monthly
Quality Improvement Committee (QIC)
The QIC meets quarterly and promotes a system-wide approach to QI, provides oversight and direction in assessing the availability,
access and appropriateness of care and services delivered and continuously enhances and improves the quality of care and services
provided to members. This is accomplished through a comprehensive system of ongoing, objective, and systematic monitoring; the
identification, evaluation, and resolution of process problems; the identification of opportunities to improve member outcomes; and the
education of members, providers and staff regarding the Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement (QAPI) Program.
Frequency: Quarterly

Committee Reporting to the QIC
Utilization Management (UM) Committee
The UMC’s primary purpose is to provide oversight of the utilization management program, care coordination/case management
program and associated activities to ensure that UM activities are integrated into all functional areas and departments. The UMC
meets at least quarterly and is responsible for the analysis of UM data (such as hospital admission, ambulatory encounters, and the
level of care utilized), care coordination/case management data (such as completion rates of HRS/HRA, number of enrollees in care
coordination by risk level and by disease process), the identification of trends, and the addressing of identified issues. Additional
responsibilities include the monitoring of the appropriateness of care, over- and under-utilization of services, review and approval of
medical necessity criteria.
Frequency: Quarterly

1       P a g e    

   

D R A F T    

Page 80 of 102

Revised   –   January   6,   2015   

    
CountyCare   Health   Plan   Oversight   Committee   Meetings   
Committee Reporting to the QIC (continued)
Pharmacy & Therapeutic Committee
The P&T Committee meets quarterly and will have oversight of and operating authority over the health plan’s Pharmacy Program. The
Committee will be responsible for the development and annual review of the Pharmacy Program Description and associated policies,
as well as activities such as reviewing pharmacy utilization; specific Drug Utilization Review studies, particularly on the poly-pharmacy
risks of SSI Enrollees; and drug interaction reports.
Frequency: Quarterly
Peer Review Committee
The Peer Review Committee (PRC) is an ad hoc committee of the QIC and is responsible for reviewing inappropriate or aberrant
service by a provider including alleged quality of care concerns, adverse events, and sentinel events where initial investigation
indicates a significant potential or significant, severe adverse outcome has occurred or other cases as deemed appropriate. The PRC
is expected to use their clinical judgment in assessing the appropriateness of clinical care and recommending a corrective action plan
that will best suit the particular provider’s situation.
Frequency: Meets on an ad hoc basis
Physician Advisory Committee
The Committee will be held to communicate CountyCare’s programs and processes to its provider network. The Committee provides
input on the health plan’s Provider profile and incentive programs, and other administrative practices, and supports development of the
physician scorecard indicators, useful analyses of the data, and effective means of helping Providers improve their performance.
Frequency: Meets on an ad hoc basis
Credentialing Committee
The Credentialing Committee shall ensure network providers, facilities and practitioners are qualified, properly credentialed and
available for access by plan members. The CC has the responsibility for credentialing and re-credentialing physicians, non-physician
practitioners, facilities, long-term care providers, and other practitioners in the plan network and to oversee the credentialing process to
ensure its compliance with regulatory and accreditation requirements.
Frequency: Six (6) times per year
Performance Improvement Team
Performance Improvement Team (PIT) is an internal, cross-functional quality improvement team that facilitates the integration of a
culture of quality improvement throughout the organization. The PIT is responsible for gathering and analyzing performance measures,
performing barrier and root cause analysis for indicators falling below desired performance and making recommendations regarding
corrective actions/ interventions for improvement. The PIT is also responsible for overseeing the implementation of recommended
corrective actions/interventions from the QIC and/or its supporting subcommittees, monitoring the outcomes of those improvement
efforts and reporting back to the designated committee. Multiple PITs may exist.
Frequency: Ad hoc initially, then schedule will be developed
Enrollee Advisory and Community Stakeholder Committee
The Enrollee Advisory and Community Stakeholder Committee meets on a quarterly basis to provide feedback to the QIC on health
plan’s performance from Enrollee and community perspectives; recommends program enhancements based on Enrollee and
community needs; identifies key program issues, such as disparities, that may impact community groups; provides input on service
improvements; and offers guidance on effective approaches for reaching Enrollees or other Enrollee-related issues. These committees
review Enrollee and Provider satisfaction survey results; evaluates performance levels and telephone response times; reviews Enrollee
educational materials for relevance, understanding and ease of use; evaluates network access issues; and provides feedback as
requested by the QAPI.
Frequency: Quarterly
2       P a g e    
   

D R A F T    
Page 81 of 102

    
CountyCare   Health   Plan   Oversight   Committee   Meetings   
Committee Reporting Jointly to the Compliance Committee and the QIC
Delegated Vendor Oversight Committee
The Committee meets monthly to provide oversight of the operations affecting the scope of functions of delegated vendors and
subcontractors to ensure compliance with statutory and contractual requirements, including Key Performance Indicators. The
Committee also provides oversight of quarterly delegation oversight audits, monthly joint operations meetings and regular monitoring of
enrollee and provider complaints.
Frequency: Monthly
Grievances and Appeals Committee
The Grievance and Appeals Committee (GAC) is responsible for monitoring Member grievances and appeals including those arising from
delegated vendors and subcontractors. Tracking and analysis of all grievances and appeals to assess the trends and patterns in addition to
the timeliness of resolution, performing barrier and root cause analysis and making recommendations regarding corrective actions, as
indicated.
Frequency: Monthly

Committee Reporting to the Compliance Committee
Fraud Waste and Abuse Committee
Monthly Workgroup meetings are responsible for reviewing Payment Integrity (PI) and Special Investigations Unit (SIU) activities,
taking appropriate action, and assisting the PI/SIU group in procuring relevant information.
Frequency: Monthly
Policy Committee
Quarterly Workgroup to ensure all CountyCare policies are reviewed on an annual basis.
Frequency: Quarterly

3       P a g e    
   

D R A F T    
Page 82 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #9

Page 83 of 102

 CountyCare   Compliance   Steering   
Commi9ee   Charter   
The   Charter   
§  Fulﬁlls   contractual   requirements   that   compel   the   development   
of   a   Compliance   Commi9ee   to   oversee   the   health   plan’s   Fraud   
Waste   and   Abuse   Plan   and   opera?ons.         
§  This   document   outlines   the   charter   statement   for   the   
commi9ee,   the   various   inputs   that   will   be   considered   by   the   
commi9ee,   the   communica?ons   and   reports   generated   by   the   
commi9ee,   as   well   as   the   vo?ng   rights   for   commi9ee   members.         
§  The   CountyCare   Corporate   Compliance   Commi9ee   is   chaired   by   
the   CCHHS   Compliance   and   Privacy   Oﬃcer   and   meets   on   a   
monthly   basis   and   contains   membership   from   both   CCHHS   
leadership,   CountyCare   leadership,   IlliniCare   (TPA)   compliance   
and   opera?ons.         
   
§  Ac?on:   Receive   and   File   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

7   

Page 84 of 102

 CountyCare Compliance Steering Committee Charter
Chair: CCHHS Chief Compliance Officer
Reports to: CCHHS Board of Directors through the Audit and Compliance Committee
Frequency: Monthly
Implemented: 08/21/2014
Last reviewed/ revised: as above
Charter Statement: To provide oversight and guidance of CountyCare operations to fulfill Compliance program
requirements and monitor corrective action plans as necessary.

Inputs to the Compliance Committee:
Ø Compliance Plan 2014
Ø Fraud, Waste and Abuse (FWA) Reports
• Hotline Reports
• Investigations
o SIU Report
Ø
Reports/Audits
• Grievances and Appeals Reports
• Sanction Screening Reports
• Conflict of Interest Reports
• Delegated Vendor Oversight & Audits
• Upcoming Audits
Ø Training Reports
• FWA
• HIPAA
• Cultural Competency
• Health, Safety and Welfare
• Provider Education
Ø Policy and Procedures
• Development/Review
• Audits
Ø HIPAA Updates
Ø Quality Improvement Plans – Current/Status
Ø Corrective Action Plans – Current/Status
Ø Identification of New Organizational Risks

Communications
o Recommendations/Corrective Actions
Key audiences:
o Executive Oversight Committee
o CCHHS Board of Directors through the Audit and
Compliance Committee
o Plan Administration

Voting:
All members, including the chair, have one vote. In the event a member is not present, they can send an alternate on
their behalf. The alternate can cast the vote for the member. At least 50% of the voting members, or their delegates, must
be present for quorum. Any vote must be approved by at least 2/3.

Reporting:
The main reporting tool from the Compliance Committee is the Meeting Minutes. A summary of the meeting will be
provided to the CCHHS Board of Directors through the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Page 85 of 102

 CountyCare   Fraud,   Waste   
and   Abuse   Program   
The   Program   
§  Monitors   the   Health   Plan’s   Fraud,   Waste   and   Abuse   (FWA)   
Program   with   goal   of   protec?ng   consumers   in   the   delivery   of   
healthcare   services   through   ?mely   detec?on,   inves?ga?on   and   
prosecu?on   of   FWA.      
§  Achieves   goal   by   establishing:   
‒  Training   programs   for   CountyCare   employees,   vendors,   
subcontractors,   about   their   role   in   the   FWA   process.   
‒  Deﬁning   methods   to   iden?fy,   prevent,   review   and   ini?ate   
correc?ve   ac?ons   against   any   provider   or   member   who   is   
suspected   of   par?cipa?ng   in   FWA   ac?vi?es.      
‒  Developing   policies   and   procedures.   
‒  Outlining      the   workﬂow   to   be   followed   in   the   event   that   a   
poten?al   FWA   issue   or   overpayment   is   iden?ﬁed.         
‒  Repor?ng   iden?ﬁed   FWA   issues,   including   referral   to   state   
and   local   authori?es.   
§  Oversees   all   FWA   ac?vi?es   performed   by   Health   Plan’s   
delegated   vendors.   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

8   

Page 86 of 102

       

Meeting Purpose:

Primary Attendees:

CountyCare Fraud, Waste and Abuse Workgroup
Date:
Time:
Place:
Dial in #:
Leader: Ryan Lipinski, CountyCare Compliance Officer

Monthly Workgroup meetings are responsible for reviewing Fraud, Waste and Abuse Programs of
delegated vendors. This meeting will include Payment Integrity (PI) and Special Investigations
Unit (SIU) activities, taking appropriate action, and assisting the PI/SIU groups in procuring
relevant information.
Members
CCHHS
CountyCare

Staff
TPA
Other Delegated Vendors

Other
CC OIG

Sample Agenda Topics
Review of Delegated Vendors Fraud Waste and Abuse (FWA) Policies and Procedure
Dashboard Statistics Development
2015 FWA Work Plan
Report Review
• PI/SIU Report Review
Status of Open Investigations
• Investigation Name
• Referral Type
• Referral Source
• Investigation Phase/Status
• Preliminary Review Finding and Recommendation
• Final Report Generated (Y/N)
• Recommended Action Taken
Referrals made to and/or received from HFS OIG
FWA Program Updates
• New staffing changes or program oversight responsibilities
• New regulations or guidance impacting FWA subject area
• Employee training or professional development associated with FWA operations (e.g., conferences, webinars attended)
FWA – Open Items

Page 87 of 102

 FWA   Ac?vity   
State   Fiscal   Year   

July   2014   –   June   2015   

1   
1   
4   
0   

Q1   

1   
1   

Q2   

Q3*   

Q4   

     Q3* = only 1-month of data (January)
     Note: HFS requires quarterly reporting using the
State Fiscal Year

Seven   (7)   cases   iden?ﬁed   to   date:   
§  Four   (4)   Providers   
‒  Poten?al   upcoding   on   two   (2)      
‒  Poten?al   “boiler   plate”   coding   on   one   (1)   
‒  One   (1)   provider   misiden?ﬁed   as   
CountyCare   (case   closed)   
§  Two   (2)   Ambulance   Providers   
‒  Poten?al   upcoding   
§  One   (1)   Member   
‒  Allega?on   of   ineligibility      
   (transi?oned   to   HFS   OIG   –   closed)      
Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

9   

Page 88 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #10

Page 89 of 102

 CountyCare   Grievances   and      
Appeals   Process   
The   Process   
§  Provides   a   mechanism   for   members   to   ﬁle   complaints   and   a   
way   for   members   or   providers   to   ﬁle   appeals   when   a   request   
for   a   medical   item   or   service   is   denied   by   CountyCare.   
§  Allows   for   tracking   of   grievances   and   appeals   by   category,   
volume   and   resoluKon.   
§  Contributes   to   idenKfy   program   improvement   opportuniKes,   
which   may   reduce   the   issues   that   give   rise   to   grievances   and   
appeals.   
§  Represents   a   primary   mechanism   for   CCHHS   Corporate   
Compliance   and   CountyCare   operaKons   to   exercise   oversight   of   
the   TPA   and   other   vendor   operaKons   with   respect   to   grievances   
and   appeals.   
   
§  AcKon:   Receive   and   File   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

10   

Page 90 of 102

 GRIEVANCES   AND   APPEALS   DEFINITIONS   
Contractor   shall   submit   a   summary   of   the   Grievances   and   Appeals   filed   by   Enrollees,   organized   by   categories   of   as   defined   below.      The   report   shall   include   a   summary   count   of   
any   such   Grievances   or   Appeals   received   during   the   reporting   period   including   those   that   go   through   fair   hearings   and   external   independent   reviews.      The   report   shall   include   
Appeals   and   Grievances   outcomes   and   the   levels   at   which   the   Grievances   or   Appeals   were   resolved   and   whether   the   appeals   were   upheld   or   overturned.      Contractor   shall   provide   
this   report   for   each   population   for   which   it   provides   Covered   Services.         Reporting   Frequency:   Quarterly   
   

Section   
Types      

Term   
Grievance   
Appeal   

Definition   
The   expression   of   dissatisfaction   by   a   Member   including   complaints   and   requests   for   disenrollment,   about   any   matter   other   than   a   
matter   that   is   properly   the   subject   of   an   appeal.   
A   request   for   review   of   a   decision   made   by   CountyCare   with   respect   to   an   action.         An   action   is   defined   as   the   denial   or   limited   
authorization   of   a   requested   service,   including   the   type   or   level   of   service;   the   reduction,   suspension,   or   termination   of   a   previously   
authorized   service;   the   denial,   in   whole   or   in   part,   of   payment   for   a   service;   the   failure   to   provide   services   in   a   timely   manner,   as   
defined   by   the   State;   the   failure   to   act   within   the   set   timeframes.   

Expedited   
Appeal   

An   appeal   filed   when   taking   the   time   for   a   standard   (appeal)   resolution   could   seriously   jeopardize   the   enrollee's   life   or   health   or   ability   
to   attain,   maintain   or   regain   maximum   function.   

External   
Independent   
Review   
Fair   Hearing   

Except   for   denial   or   Waiver   services,   which   may   not   be   reviewed   by   an   external   independent   entity,   the   Enrollee   may   request   an   
external   independent   review,   both   standard   and   expedited   timeframes,   of   appeals   that   are   denied   by   Contractor   within   thirty   ( 30)   
calendar   days   after   the   date   of   the   Contractor's   decision   notice   [HFS].   
The   State   plan   must   provide   an   opportunity   for   a   fair   hearing   to   any   person   whose   claim   for   assistance   is   denied   or   not   acted   upon   
promptly.      Final   decisions   of   Appeals   not   resolved   wholly   in   favor   of   the   Enrollee   may   be   appealed   by   the   Enrollee   to   the   State   under   its   
Fair   Hearings   system   within   thirty   (30)   calendar   days   after   the   date   of   the   Contractor's   Decision   Notice.   
Definition   
Determinations   on   decisions   that   are   or   which   could   be   considered   covered   benefits.   This   includes   determinations   for   covered   medical   
benefits   as   defined   by   the   organization,   including   hospitalization   and   emergency   services   listed   in   the   Certificate   of   Coverage   or   
Summary   of   Benefits   and   care   of   service   that   could   be   considered   either   covered   or   non-­‐covered,   depending   on   the   circumstances.   
Areas   of   concerns   such   as:   cannot   find   Provider,   inconvenient   hours,   Provider   capacity,   out   of   area   Providers,   refusal   to   take   Medicaid,   
ADA   non-­‐compliance,   unable   to   address   language   needs,   not   meeting   appointment   times   requirements.   

      

      
      

      
Section   
Term   
Categories    Medical   
Necessity   
      
      
      
      
      

      
      
   

Access   to   Care   

Quality   of   Care    The   degree   to   which   health   services   for   individuals   and   populations   increase   the   likelihood   of   desired   health   outcomes   and   are   
consistent   with   current   professional   knowledge.   
Transportation    Any   grievance   or   appeal   relating   to   the   transportation   benefits.   
Pharmacy   
Any   grievance   or   appeal   relating   to   the   pharmacy   benefits.   
HCBS   Waiver   
Grievance:   Any   expression   of   dissatisfaction   relating   to   HCBS   Waiver   Services.   
Appeal:   Any   appeal   related   to   the   reduction,   elimination,   or   timeliness   of   services   or   hours   through   the   Community   Care   Program   or   
Services   
the   Home   Services   Program.   
Long   Term   
Grievance:   Any   expression   of   dissatisfaction   relating   to   LTC   Services.   
Appeal:   Any   appeal   related   to   the   reduction,   elimination,   or   timeliness   of   services   or   hours   through   the   Community   Care   Program   or   
Care   (LTC)   
the   Home   Services   Program.   
Services      
Other   
Any   kind   of   grievance   or   appeal   not   covered   by   the   previously   mentioned   topics.   
Page 91 of 102

 GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS SUMMARY 
July 2014 – September 2014 
Q1 , SFY 2015 
 
Grievances and Appeals Received 

  
Medical 
Necessity 
‐ 

Access to 
Care 
12 

Quality of 
Care 
41 

Transportation 
1 

Pharmacy 
1 

  
HCBS Waiver 
Services 
‐ 

Appeals 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

4 

Expedited Appeals 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

Total 

‐ 

12 

41 

1 

Category  
Grievances 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

LTC 
Services 
‐ 

Other 
1 

Total 
56 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

4 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

5 

‐ 

‐ 

1 

60 

 

Grievances and Appeals Resolved 

  

Category  
Grievances 

Medical 
Necessity 
‐ 

  
Access to 
Care 
9 

Quality of 
Care 
39 

Transportation 
‐ 

Pharmacy 
‐ 

  
HCBS Waiver 
Services 
‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

2 

‐ 

Appeals 

  

  

  

  

  

  

LTC 
Services 
‐ 

Other 
‐ 

Total 
48 

‐ 

‐ 

2 

Expedited Appeals 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

16 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

Total 

‐ 

‐ 

39 

‐ 

18 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

50 

 

Grievances Outcomes 
Category  
Grievances Resolved 

  

  

Total # of Grievances 
Resolved 
48 

  
# of Grievances Resolved 
within 90 Days 
48 

% of Grievances Resolved 
within 90 Days 
100% 

 

Appeals Outcomes 

  

Category  
Appeals Upheld/Overturned at MCO Level 
Total 

  

  

  

Upheld 
1 

Overturned 
1 

# of Appeals Resolved within 15 
Business Days 
2 

% of Appeals Resolved within 
15 Business Days 
100% 

1 

1 

 

 

 

Expedited Appeals Outcomes  
Category  
Expedited Appeals Upheld/Overturned at MCO Level 
Total 

  

  

  

  

Upheld 
‐ 

Overturned 
‐ 

# of Expedited Appeals Resolved 
within 24 Hours 
‐ 

% of Expedited Appeals 
Resolved within 24 Hours 
N/A 

‐ 

‐ 

 

 

 

Page 92 of 102

 GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS SUMMARY 
October 2014 ‐ December 2014 
Q2 , SFY 2015 
 
Grievances and Appeals Received 

  

Category  
Grievances 

Medical 
Necessity 
‐ 

  
Access to 
Care 
4 

Quality of 
Care 
33 

Transportation 
5 

Pharmacy 
‐ 

  
HCBS Waiver 
Services 
‐ 

15 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

32 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

15 

4 

33 

5 

Appeals 
Expedited Appeals 
Total 

  

  

  

  

  

  

LTC 
Services 
‐ 

Other 
13 

Total 
55 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

47 

16 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

16 

48 

‐ 

‐ 

13 

118 

 

Grievances and Appeals Resolved 

  

Category  
Grievances 

Medical 
Necessity 
‐ 

  
Access to 
Care 
3 

Quality of 
Care 
10 

Transportation 
‐ 

Pharmacy 
‐ 

  
HCBS Waiver 
Services 
‐ 

10 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

29 

‐ 

Appeals 
Expedited Appeals 
Total 

  

  

  

  

  
Other 
5 

Total 
18 

‐ 

‐ 

39 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

16 

‐ 

‐ 

‐ 

16 

10 

3 

10 

‐ 

45 

‐ 

‐ 

5 

73 

 

Grievances Outcomes 
Category  
Grievances Resolved 

  

  

Total # of Grievances 
Resolved 
18 

  
# of Grievances Resolved 
within 90 Days 
18 

% of Grievances Resolved 
within 90 Days 
100% 

 

Appeals Outcomes 

  

Category  
Appeals Upheld/Overturned at MCO Level 
Total 

  

  

  

Upheld 
‐ 

Overturned 
10 

# of Appeals Resolved within 15 
Business Days 
10 

% of Appeals Resolved within 
15 Business Days 
100% 

‐ 

10 

 

 

 

Expedited Appeals Outcomes  
Category  
Expedited Appeals Upheld/Overturned at MCO Level 
Total 

  

LTC 
Services 
‐ 

  

  

  

  

Upheld 
3 

Overturned 
13 

# of Expedited Appeals Resolved 
within 24 Hours 
7 

% of Expedited Appeals 
Resolved within 24 Hours 
43.75% 

3 

13 

 

 

 

Page 93 of 102

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
February 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #11

Page 94 of 102

 Fiscal   Year   End   Report   
This   Report   
§  Summarizes   FY   2014   Corporate   Compliance   acKvity.   
-  ReacKve   acKvity   volumes   
-  Completed   projects   (pro-­‐acKve   acKvity)   
   
§  AcKon:   Receive   and   File   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

11   

Page 95 of 102

 ReacKve   Issue   Count   by   Fiscal   Year   

691   

470   

367   

242   
187   

FY   2010   

FY   2011   

FY   2012   

FY   2013   

FY   2014   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

12   

Page 96 of 102

 Actual   ReacKve   Issue   AcKvity   

715   
24

497   
27
382   
15

691   
470   

367   
242   
187   
FY   2010   

FY   2011   

FY   2012   

FY   2013   

FY   2014   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

13   

Page 97 of 102

 Actual   ReacKve   Issue   AcKvity   

715   
24

497   
27
382   
15

691   
470   

242   

15   

367   

2   +   41   

24   

27   

187   
FY   2010   

FY   2011   

FY   2012   

FY   2013   

FY   2014   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

14   

Page 98 of 102

 2014   Issue   Breakdown   by   Category   
6711 Reactive Corporate Compliance Issues Were Raised

Regulatory/Policy
6%
Research
0.75%
Other
10%
Political
Activity
1%

False Claims
2%

Human
Resources
6%

HIPAA
52%

HC Fraud
3%
Theft
0.25%

Conflict of
Interest
6%

Category Count1
Privacy (HIPAA)
Accurate Books

362
65

Conflict of Interest

59

Accurate Books
9%

Human Resources
HC Fraud

48
19

Political Activity
Research

6
4

False Claims

11

Theft

1

Regulatory/Policy 45
Other
71

This is a total count of the issues raised to Corporate Compliance.
Not all issues are validated/substantiated.

1

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

15   

Page 99 of 102

 Status   Report   of   Issues   
Of the total number of reactive issues addressed during FY 2014,
6% or 43 issues remained open at close of the fiscal year.

43 or 6%

504

672 or 94%

Open Issues

Resolved
Issues

117
51
Managed Internally

The majority of the issues, 92%, were
either managed solely by Corporate
Compliance or Corporate Compliance
partnered with another area to
address the concern raised.

Partnered with Another Area
Referred to Other Areas

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

16   

Page 100 of 102

 FY   2014   Projects   
§ 

§ 

§ 

§ 

§ 

17   

   

CountyCare   
– 
Established   a   Corporate   Compliance   Program   to   
demonstrate   commitment   to   promoKng   ethical   and   
lawful   conduct   consistent   with   all   applicable   laws,   
regulaKons,   and   contractual   requirements,   as   well   as   
CCHHS   policies,   procedures,   and   Code   of   Ethics/
Standards   of   Conduct.      
– 
Developed   Compliance   Plan.   
340B   Compliance   
‒ 
Partnered   with   operaKonal   areas   to   develop   policy   and   
corresponding   procedures   to   document   compliance.   
External   DRG   Probe   Audit      
–  Reviewed   a   random   sample   of   the   top   DRG’s   at   both   
John   H.   Stroger   Jr.   Hospital   and   Provident   Hospital.      
Deﬁciencies   noted,   coders   reeducated,   and   correcKve   
acKon   plan   includes   ongoing   monitoring.   
Teaching   Physician   AOestaKon   with   Primary   Care   ExcepKon   
– 
Assessed   current   process   and   researched   Medicare   
Requirements.      Facilitated   meeKngs   with   Physician   
Leadership,   created   Policies   and   Procedures,   and   
assisted   in   implementaKon.   
IdenKty   Theo   
‒  Partnered   with   operaKons   to   create   policies   and   
procedures;   developed   a   consistent   
approach   to   remedy   the   impact   of      
idenKty   theo   on   operaKons.   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

Page 101 of 102

 Projects   (con3nued)   
§ 

§ 

§ 

§ 

Medical   Records   
‒  Assisted   with   policies   and   procedures   for   release   of   
informaKon   and   amending   medical   records.      Updated   release   
of   informaKon   authorizaKon   forms.         
Record   RetenKon   
‒  Developed   retenKon   matrix,   which   will   supplement   the   
exisKng   policy   and   provide   retenKon   guidance   to   the   System   
using   the   Illinois   Hospital   AssociaKon’s   Record   RetenKon   
Reference   and   the   current   retenKon   material   ﬁled   with   the   
state   of   Illinois.   
EducaKon   
–  Developed   compliance   focused   modules   for   annual   
educaKon   for   the   CCHHS   workforce.               
–  Managed   the   ongoing   operaKons   and   day-­‐to-­‐day   
management   
of   the   CCHHS   electronic   learning   management   system      
(LMS)   for   all   organizaKonal   training.   
Conﬂict   of   Interest   
–  For   all   employees:   Developed   a   Dual   Employment   eForm.   
–  For   those   with   decision-­‐making   responsibiliKes:      
AccounKng   of   Disclosures.   
–  Managed   Processes   for   both.   

Audit   &   Compliance   Commi1ee   of   the   Board   of   Directors   I February   19,   2015   

18   

Page 102 of 102

 