Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday,
September 27, 2013 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago,
Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Lewis
M. Collens; Ada Mary Gugenheim; M. Hill Hammock; Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Luis
Muñoz, MD, MPH; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (10)

Absent:

Director Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply Chain
Management
Timothy Brangle – The Chicago Consultants
Studio, Inc.
Krishna Das, MD – System Director of Quality,
Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation
Claudia Fegan, MD – Executive Medical
Director/Medical Director Stroger Hospital
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel

II.

Anthony Rajkumar – Chief Business Officer
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
James Ro - Cook County Office of Capital Planning
and Policy
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical
Integration

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.
2.

III.

George Blakemore Concerned Citizen
Dan Boris
Representative, SEIU Local 73

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Finance Committee’s Public Hearings on the proposed CCHHS FY2014 Preliminary Budget
held on August 20, 21 and 23, 2013
Director Butler, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Finance Committee’s Public Hearings on the proposed CCHHS FY2014 Preliminary
Budget held on August 20, 21 and 23, 2013.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, August 23, 2013
Chairman Carvalho, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved the approval of the
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting of August 23, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 1 of 23

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, September 27, 2013
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, September 13, 2013
 Contracts and Procurement Items (detail was provided as attachment to Board Agenda)
During the presentation of the minutes, Director Wiese indicated that a correction was needed on page 3. She
stated that her question at the meeting was not specific to the documentation for citizenship, it was regarding
general documentation for the application. Chairman Carvalho indicated that the correction to the minutes
would be made.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Finance Committee Meeting of September 13, 2013, as amended. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, September 13, 2013
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of September 13, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
E. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, September 23, 2013
 Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
Director Collens, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of September 23, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
i.

Overview of presentation made at meeting
Committee Education – Approach to Adverse Events: CCHHS 2013
Dr. Krishna Das, System Director of Quality, Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation, provided an
overview of the information presented at the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting regarding
Adverse Events. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.
Chairman Carvalho noted that, when the Hospital Provider Tax was passed in 2005 to provide hundreds of
millions of dollars of additional reimbursement to hospitals, included in that package was the Adverse
Event Reporting Law of Illinois; however, funding for that program was not identified, so that law has gone
unenforced and unimplemented since 2005. The Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) has adopted
the rules and established procedures, but resources do not currently exist to run the program. This past
spring, legislation was proposed to impose a first time ever license fee for hospitals; nursing homes,
ambulatory surgical treatment centers and beauticians pay a license fee, but hospitals have never paid a
license fee. The legislation proposed to impose an annual license fee of $55 per bed; half of the fee would
go towards implementation of this law, and the other half of the fee would go towards hiring inspectors
(hospital complaints that are made to IDPH that do not impinge on a federal condition of participation are
not investigated by IDPH, because there are no staff for this purpose). The proposed legislation received 36
votes in the Senate (needed 30), and received 40 votes in the House (needed 60), so it failed to pass. He
indicated that this subject will be revisited in the spring, so that this law can be implemented.

Page 2 of 23

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, September 27, 2013
Page 3

III.

Board and Committee Reports
E. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, September 23, 2013 (continued)
Director Hammock inquired whether there is a direct financial impact that can be linked to the data that is
reported. Dr. Das responded affirmatively. She stated that all of the data contained on the dashboard is
reported to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS); additionally, CMS looks at the
System’s data from its billing database and abstracts the data, particularly data around adverse events and
readmissions. Chairman Carvalho stated that this is another reason why the System’s coding has to be
accurate, because there are direct consequences. He indicated that an update is needed for the Finance
Committee regarding the status of improving the quality of our coding. Following discussion with staff, he
stated that the Audit and Compliance Committee has been reviewing this subject for some time; he
understands that they will be hearing a report on that subject at their upcoming meeting on October 9th.
Director Lerner noted that hospitals were previously in a volume-pushed environment, and now they are
moving to a value-based environment, which is a massive change; this is why the issue of cultural change in
the institution is so critical, because the new culture is one that says if an institution does not produce value
and prevent problems, it will not have the money in the long run.
At the Quality and Patient Safety
Committee Meeting, it was discussed that, with the implementation of CountyCare, the System will need to
measure the population’s health in a different way; he suggested that at some point, the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee should do a deep dive on the strategic direction that the System will face under
CountyCare - that will lead into a strategic discussion at the Board level.
Chairman Carvalho stated that a leading indicator of what the payers are going to require are the measures
that the National Quality Forum (NQF) develops. Dr. Das added that the NQF is starting to look at the
subject of doing risk adjustments using socioeconomic factors; this is not part of the current equation for
risk adjustment, but it is a major driver of poor outcomes over which System staff does not have a lot of
control.

IV.

Action Items
A.

Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between the County of Cook, on behalf of the Office of Capital
Planning and Policy (OCPP) and the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS), and the
Illinois Medical District Commission (IMDC), to allow the IMDC, OCPP and CCHHS to collaborate on
redevelopment opportunities within the Illinois Medical District, to better account for existing and
future needs of the County and CCHHS as well as the IMDC, including but not limited to the best and
highest uses for the County, CCHHS and IMDC properties within the Illinois Medical District
Director Lerner, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved the approval of the proposed
Intergovernmental Agreement.
Anthony Rajkumar, Chief Business Officer, and Timothy Brangle, representing the Cook County Office of
Capital Planning and Policy (OCPP), presented the item for the Board’s consideration.
Mr. Rajkumar provided an overview of the history and jurisdiction of the IMDC. He stated that the System
has a good working relationship with them; however, an agreement has never been entered into in the past to
formally establish and recognize the relationship. He provided a few examples of how the IMDC has assisted
the System; those examples included matters relating to parking arrangements and for the leasing of the Hoyne
Building, where the State’s staff members who validate the CountyCare applications are stationed.

Page 3 of 23

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, September 27, 2013
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
A.

Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (continued)
Chairman Carvalho provided additional information. He stated that the IMDC is a creature of State
government that was created in the late 1940s. It has been delegated by the State with certain extraordinary
powers within its district; it has the power of eminent domain and is authorized to own property. It has
acquired substantial amounts of property, much of it distressed, in connection with tax-delinquent sales; its
purpose is to try to pull together private developers and others who can put it to better use. The County
worked with it very closely in connection with the building of the new hospital. He concurred that there has
always been a partnership, however, that partnership has never been structured through some sort of an
intergovernmental agreement (IGA).
The Board discussed several subjects relating to the item, including the following: whether other members of
the IMDC have signed similar agreements; the scope of authority of the IMDC, the intent and scope of the
proposed IGA; potential costs associated with the agreement; the role of the System with regard to capital
expenditures; and IMDC’s strategic vision.
Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, stated that, with regard to potential opportunities for collaboration,
System administration is carefully reviewing two areas: 1) the possible establishment of a core laboratory for
the entire district; and 2) rebuilding Fantus Clinic. He stated that the System has a large laboratory and there is
an opportunity to expand it. With regard to rebuilding Fantus Clinic, the System will need to work with the
IMDC and the County to look at how to build it, and to determine how to operate the old building at the same
time that the new building is being built.
Mr. Rajkumar stated that this agreement gives System administration an opportunity to look strategically at
what is beneficial for the System and County. If the administration arrives at a strategic goal to, for example,
replace Fantus Clinic or establish a core laboratory, the proposal will be brought back to the System Board for
approval, with detail.
It was noted that, for future items like this, the Board should receive a briefing paper and background materials
in advance, which will allow Directors to prepare themselves for discussion of the item at the meeting.
Director Lerner recommended that the item be deferred to the October Board Meeting. A briefing paper can
be sent out to the Directors, to provide additional information about the history of the IMDC, and explaining
the role of the County and System in relation to the IMDC and why the System’s participation is critical; at the
next Board Meeting, representatives from the County and IMDC can be present for any additional discussion
that needs to be held. Vice Chairman Ramirez concurred with Director Lerner’s recommendation to rescind
the motion to approve the proposed IGA.
Elizabeth Reidy, System General Counsel, stated that the agreement is expected to be presented to the County
Board for their consideration on Tuesday, October 1st; she indicated that the County Board will likely inquire
whether the System has voted to acknowledge the IGA. Following discussion, Chairman Carvalho asked Dr.
Raju to convey to the County Board that the System Board has deferred action on the item in order to get
additional details.
Director Lerner further clarified the information being requested and next steps anticipated for this item. He
stated that a briefing paper should be sent to the Directors that addresses the following subjects: history of the
IMDC; role of the County and System in relation to the IMDC; and why the System’s participation is critical.
Representatives from the IMDC can provide a presentation on their vision, along with a short summary of
where their district has been over the past four to five decades.
This item was deferred to the October 25, 2013 Meeting of the Board of Directors1.
Page 4 of 23

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, September 27, 2013
Page 5

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, provided an overview of the request
presented for the Board’s consideration. James Ro, Project Director, from the Cook County Office of Capital
Planning and Policy, provided additional information. The Board reviewed and discussed the request.
Director Hammock, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of request number 1
under the Contracts and Procurement Items. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Vice Chairman Ramirez voted PRESENT.
C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Ribbon-Cutting Event at Oak Forest Health Center
Chairman Carvalho stated that the ribbon cutting event marking the opening of the regional outpatient center at Oak
Forest Health Center occurred yesterday. He stated that Directors Collens and Gugenheim were able to attend,
along with President Toni Preckwinkle and several members of the County Board. This project was part of the
System’s Strategic Plan that was developed and approved by the County Board; it involved the reorganization of the
Oak Forest campus into a primary and specialty outpatient center, and de-licensing of the hospital beds which had
originally been there to serve the long-term care residents. The long-term care patients were gone by 2007, but the
hospital, the emergency room in particular, was being used almost as an outpatient specialty clinic; therefore, it was
configured as such.
FY2014 Budget Activities
Chairman Carvalho stated that the System’s Preliminary Budget has been approved by the County Board in the first
step of the process. The next step is the incorporation of the System’s Preliminary Budget into the overall County
budget by the President; the President is currently expected to be presenting the Executive Budget Recommendation
at a meeting in the second week of October. He stated that he will be attending that meeting, along with the Chair
of the System’s Finance Committee. He encouraged the Directors to attend the upcoming meeting, if their
schedules permitted, to show their support for Dr. Raju and the System’s budget.
Site Tours for Directors
Chairman Carvalho stated that several of the Directors have mentioned an interest in taking tours of the several
System facilities. Rather than having Directors make their own arrangements for tours separately, he stated that the
Secretary and administration is coordinating a set of tours. They will be reaching out to Directors to determine their
availability, and to determine the number of tours that will be needed at each facility; he added that the
arrangements for tours at Cermak Health Services are more complicated than those for Fantus Clinic, for example.
A. 2013/2014 Board and Committee Meetings
i. Discussion of plans for 2014 Board and Committee schedules
Chairman Carvalho stated that the Board has been having discussions at its smaller groups of Committees
regarding Board and Committee schedules, and the summaries of those discussions have been presented in
those meetings. His original intent was to discuss this at the August Board Meeting, but because there were
some Directors who were absent at that meeting, the discussion was deferred to this meeting in order to present
a full range of views on the topic.
Page 5 of 23

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, September 27, 2013
Page 6

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board (continued)
Also at the last meeting, Dr. Raju was asked to make any suggestions or recommendations on his views of the
meetings schedule, and what might be optimal from a staff perspective. Chairman Carvalho indicated that
what the Board needs to take into account are the needs of the System and its staff, the public, the Board
Members and of the Board itself, and figure out what timing and progression of meetings would work best.
Chairman Carvalho stated that Director Lerner did not have an opportunity at the last meeting to join in the
conversation; he invited Director Lerner to share his thoughts on the subject. Director Lerner stated that, to the
extent that the Board can minimize interference with staff time and maximize the time and benefit of the Board
Members, what he has done in other institutions is to change over from the sporadic committee schedule that
exists, and to take some of the committees and piggyback them close to or hold them on the Board Meeting
day. At his last institution, they held a quality meeting for one hour, followed by a finance meeting held in the
next hour. A quick break could be held for dinner, which would be followed by the board meeting. The
meetings would start at 3:00 P.M. and the Board would be out by 8:00 P.M. at the latest. He noted that, under
this model, the timing does not allow for minutes to be prepared and sent out to the members for approval in
advance; however, the Chair of each committee verbally reported on the actions that were taken at the
committee, and the minutes were subsequently approved.
Dr. Raju stated that he had communicated through the Secretary to the Chairman that the staff preference
would be to have the Human Resources and Finance Committees meet on the Board Meeting day; he noted
that if the Human Resources Committee decides to hold their meetings every other month in 2014, then every
other month there would be meetings of only the Finance Committee and the Board on the same day. He said
that he is not in favor of having the Quality and Patient Safety Committee meet on the Board Meeting day,
because this Committee needs more time for its meetings.
Dr. Raju and several of the Directors indicated that they did not have an issue with evening meetings, with the
exception of meetings scheduled on Friday evenings. Director Collens stated that, if the Board is going to
make that change, he hopes that there will be some considerable lead time, as he has a calendar of meetings
that stretches out into the future. He suggested that the Board can perhaps make that change six months from
now, as he believed that Friday mornings are locked on calendars for the extended period of time. He thought
that the Board should be polled on proposed changes of dates, and regarding which evenings would work best.
Director Muñoz suggested that Wednesdays or Thursdays would be good for evening meetings.
With regard to the meetings of the Human Resource Committee, Director Wiese stated that there was a
discussion regarding the Human Resources Committee schedule possibly changing to meet every other month;
however there are some foundational matters that need to be addressed first before this is considered. There
are two different reports that have been requested, so those need to be received first.
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to follow-up with Board Members regarding the poll. He had
suggested that the Board might even try such an arrangement prior to the end of the year, so perhaps in the
polling the Board can see whether there is an opportunity in November or December to try this before the
official schedule is set for the balance of next year. He stated that, as a reminder, under the Illinois Open
Meetings Act, every year before the calendar year begins, a Board is supposed to adopt a schedule for the
subsequent year and make it available to the press and public; therefore, the Board will at some point in the
near future need to take action and formally adopt a schedule.

Page 6 of 23

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, September 27, 2013
Page 7

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board (continued)
Director Collens requested that the poll include the option of holding the two Committee Meetings prior to the
Board Meeting on Friday mornings, as another alternative. Chairman Carvalho responded affirmatively; he
suggested that for this option, the Human Resources Committee could be noticed for 8:00 A.M., the Finance
Committee could be noticed for 9:00 A.M., and the Board Meeting could be noticed for 10:30 A.M.2

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: FY2014 Budget; CountyCare; Oak Forest Health Center;
and Recognition of Employees.
A. Report from Chief Business Officer (Attachment #2)
Dr. Raju stated that, each month, a regular report will be provided by members of his senior staff, to give a
quick update on the areas for which they are responsible. He introduced Anthony Rajkumar, Chief Business
Officer, who provided an overview of his roles and responsibilities. The Board reviewed the information.
Chairman Carvalho inquired regarding the number of patients who remain in the hospital beyond the medical
need to be in an acute care setting, because there is no place to send them. Dr. Claudia Fegan, Executive
Medical Director responded that the number of people in that category has diminished to less than a half dozen
by now; the System uses a variety of contracts with nursing homes to place people who do not have anywhere
to go. She indicated that she can provide a report on that subject, as the number of patients in that category
fluctuates from week to week. Chairman Carvalho commented that the System is still financially responsible
for them, but at least the patients are not filling up a bed in an acute care setting. For patients in this category,
who do not have a payer source, including those who are undocumented, Director Lerner stated that, to the
extent that the County remains a repository or place of last resort, there is a financial load associated with that.
As the Affordable Care Act is implemented, there will still be a significant number of people who will not be
covered, including the undocumented; the Board will need to think about the financial and human consequences
of this.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Stroger Hospital Medical Staff Matter(s)
B. Claims and Litigation
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body
to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action
against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a
court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of
reserves or settlement of claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental
Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim
might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk management
information, records, data, advice or communications from or with respect to any insurer of
Page 7 of 23

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, September 27, 2013
Page 8

VII. Closed Session Items (continued)
the public body or any intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance
pool of which the public body is a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the
recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health
care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated
by the public body.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:
Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Collens,
Gugenheim, Hammock, Lerner, Muñoz, Velasquez and Wiese (10)
Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Director Morris (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened
into regular session.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the appointment of
Dr. Jan Paul Szatkowski as Orthopedic Surgery Division Chair. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared the MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 8 of 23

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, September 27, 2013
Page 9

1

Follow-up: Proposed IGA deferred to October 25th Board Meeting. Briefing paper and any other applicable
informational materials are requested to be forwarded to the Board. Pages 3 and 4.

2

Follow-up: Polling to be done regarding options for the 2014 calendar of meetings. Pages 6 and 7.

Page 9 of 23

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
September 27, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 10 of 23

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(B) 
SEPTEMBER 27, 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS
Request 
#

Vendor

Service or Product

Fiscal Impact

Begins 
Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#

Capital Program Item ‐ Execute Contract

1

Edwards Engineering, Inc.

Construction Contractor for the 
Removal and Replacement of the 
Clean Steam Piping System Project at 
John H. Stroger Hospital of Cook 
County

Page 11 of 23

$14,541,200.00 

SHCC

2

 Clean Steam Pipe Replacement at Stroger Hospital

FACT SHEET

OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING POLICY DATE: 9/10/13

PROJECT NAME:

Clean Steam Pipe Replacement at Stroger Hospital

PROJECT DESCRIPTION: The John H. Stroger Hospital of Cook County has two separate steam producing systems,

SCOPE OF SERVICES

BUDGET:

SCHEDULE:
CONTRACTOR:

BOND ACCOUNT:

heating and Clean Steam. The central boiler plant is a closed system. Condensate is
pumped back to the central boiler plant, treated and reused. The Central boiler plant feeds
the Clean Steam system. Clean Steam is produced by six independent generators, and
used for the building?s humidi?ers, autoclaves and kitchen equipment. The condensate
return from the Clean Steam system is directed into the feedwater for the HVAC boilers
along with the HVAC condensate return.

The main plant feedwater is treated through water softening, deaeration and dealkalizers.
With the exception of the water softeners, the Clean Steam system does not have
deaerators or dealkalizers. The system is subject to severe corrosion and leaks in the
condensate system, its components and ?ttings which cause persistent and periodic
failures in the system. Currently, the system has been shut-down due to the massive
deterioration and corrosion of the existing piping and system components.

The intent of this project is to replace the existing clean steam system at John H. Stroger
Jr. Hospital with a new system

The Contractor for this project will provide all construction services required to complete
this project. The scope shall include but is not limited to the following:

I Installation removal of temporary barriers, directional signage and negative air
machines.

0 Removal of the existing corroded clean steam piping and humidi?ers (the clean
steam generators will remain).

0 Replace the existing piping with stainless steel materials and install new
humidi?ers. A portion of the duetwork will also be replaced with
stainless steel sheetmetal.

0 Commission all of the systems at one time.

CM Services Faithful+Gould: 915,999
Design Services -WMA Consulting Engineers: 2,118,500
Construction Contractor Edwards Engineering, Inc. $14,541,200
TOTAL . $17,575,699
Construction 15 months

Edwards Engineering, Inc. Elk Grove Village, Illinois

  

Request 

SEP 272013 1

DIRECT ORSB TY
HEALTH AND HO 

 

 
  
 
 

 

 

OFFICE OF CAPITAL PLANNING 8: POLICY

JOHN COOKE

DIRECTOR

69 w. WASHINGTON, SUITE 3000 CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602 (312) 603-0315

 

TONI PRECKWINKLE

PRESIDENT
Cook County Board
of Commissioners

EARLEAN COLLINS

 

LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS - FORM 
COUNTY BOARD AGENDA ITEM BACK-UP DOCUMENTATION

September 10, 2013

Honorable Toni Preckwinkle
President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

District
and Members of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
ROBERT STEELE 118 North Clark Street, Room 537
Chicago, IL 60602
JERRY BUTLER
3rd District RE: Proposed Board Item 13-1673 Removal Replacement of the Clean Steam Piping system
STANLEY MOORE at the John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of Cook County
4th District

DEBORAH SIMS
5th District

JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY

Dear Madam President and Cook County Commissioners:

The Office of Capital Planning 8L Policy respectfully submits our request for the issuance of a
contract that pertains to the removal and replacement of the Clean Steam Piping System at John

6 II o' 
H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of Cook County.
JESUS G. GARCIA
7th District RATIONALE
EDWIN REYES Stroger?s Clean Steam System deteriorated within a few months of the hospital's opening in 2002
8th District and was subsequently shut-down due to mechanical problems. Legal actions were taken against

PETER N. SILVESTRI
9th District

BRIDGET GAIN ER
10th District

JOHN P. DALEY
11th District

JOHN A. 

the engineer and contractor for improper design and construction of this system. Cook County
was awarded a settiement for these damages in 2006 totaling $17,750,000.

ATTACHMENTS

0 Copy of the letter from the Office of the State's Attorney - Cook County, IL
dated July 21, 2006.

- Fact Sheet dated September 10, 2013

11?? if you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact: James R0, Project
LARRY SUFFREDIN Director at (312) 603?0309 James.Ro@cookc0untyil.gov
13th District
Sincerely,
GREGG GOSLJN
14th District

TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER
15th District

JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI
15th District

EUZABETH ANN DOODY GORMAN
17th District

 



Cooke Director
f?ce of Capital Planning Policy

cc: 6. A. Finch, Chief of Staff
Patrick Carey, Special Assistant Legislative and Governmental Affairs
Matthew DeLeon, Secretary to the Board

Fiscal ReSponsibility inagytm?egqiership . Transparency 81 Accountability Improved Services

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
September 27, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 14 of 23

  

Ohm HEALTH
I: 



RAM RAJ U, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
September 27, 2013

 

FY2014 BUDGET

On September 11, 2013 the Cook County Health and Hospitals System FY2014 Preliminary Budget was
introduced at the Cook County Board meeting and was approved by the Board of Commissioners for
inclusion in the President's FY2014 Executive Recommendation. It is expected the President?s FY2014
Executive Recommendation will be introduced to the Cook County Board for consideration in October.
Once introduced, the proposed budget will be referred to the Cook County Finance Committee. During
October and November, the CC Finance Committee will conduct public hearings on the proposed
budget. in addition, the Cook County Finance Committee will hold meetings to review the budgets of
each department/agency,- the Cook County Health and Hospital System will participate in this review
process. Once concluded the Finance Committee will consider amendments to the proposed budget
after which the budget will be approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners. it is expected the
County Budget, which includes our budget, will be approved prior to the end of the fiscal year,
November 30, 2013. The 2014 fiscal year begins December 1, 2013.

FY2014 budget focuses on several key principles as we continue to transform: no service
reductions or layoffs,- retaining all positions/vacancies to improve services and frontline staffing,-
investing in key areas to improve the patient experience to retain patients post Medicaid expansion;
expanding the CountyCare network to increase access all while reducing our dependency on Cook
County funding by 30% from last year.

COU NTYCAR 

This Saturday, September 28th and Sunday, September :29th is CountyCare Weekend. In an effort to get
the word out about CountyCare, more than 125,000 pieces of materials have hit the streets in the past
week. On Saturday, our outreach team will be visible throughout Cook County and twenty- two
Federally Qualified Health Center?s will be open with on-site application assistors. On Sunday,
a number ofoutreach activities have been planned at more than 100 churches across Cook County. The
website and social media are being used to promote the weekend.

Page 15 of 23

Our hard work, dedication to our patients and the larger community is paying off. To date, more than
100,000 CountyCa re applications have been initiated and we continue to work closeiy with the State of
Illinois on getting people enrolled into the program. We are well within reach of our goal of 115,000
applications.

CountyCare, our program designed to expand coverage under the Affordable Ca re Act, is a critical step
in the massive transformation of our system. We must adapt to the new way of providing care to
ensure the public health system, a critical player in the health of our communities, remains a viable and
valued partner.

OAK FOREST HEALTH CENTER (OFHC)

Earlier this week marked the opening of Oak Forest Health Center (OFHC), where new radiology and
laboratory services will be offered. The nearly $6 million transformation will allow us to provide CT
scans, ultrasounds and mammogram screenings at the regional outpatient center. I am happy to
announce that the OFHC Immediate Care Center (ICC) is again operating 24 hours.

The renovated regional outpatient center houses a new diagnostic center that includes a modern
laboratory with six radiology suites. The new radiology department is digital and filmless with a picture
archiving communications system (PACS). PACS electronically connects the health center to the rest of
the health system, which allows patients to seamlessly move through the system for more specialized
care or additional consultation is required.

Located in the same facility are a primary care center, the Immediate Care Center and a specialty care
center for patients to get a full range of services including nephrology, gastroenterology, infectious
disease and neurology services. Pharmacy and rehabilitation services also are available on site.

Last year, patient visits at Oak Forest Health Center topped 100,000 while visits to the ICC exceeded
16,000 visits for adults needing non-emergency care. With the additional services available, including
gynecology, pulmonary, cardiology, podiatry and optometry, we anticipate patient visits will continue to
grow.

The health care model in this country is shifting to a focus on prevention and out-patient services. OFHC
is uniquely positioned to provide these services and meet the needs of our current and future patients.

RECOGNITION

This month we recognize employees whose care and dedication has been brought to our attention by
our patients.

Patient Exgerience Champions of Radiology

George Talge - Director of Radiological Technical Training MRIICT We have received numerous
accolades from patients over the years, especially from the outpatient area, for George.

2 Page

Page 16 of 23

Typically the descriptions are: 'excellent customer service', 'showed concern', 'made me feel he
cared'. Under Mr. Talge's leadership, staff are trained in customer service and sensitivity and
are urged to remember that they serve a diverse population, in age, background, experience,
understanding of procedures. A recent letter says, 'George T. was very 
everything appreciate the treatment, felt very comfortable and supported on my
health!I

Koshy Oommen? MRI Technician also receives high praise for his patient care in Radiology, and
says that he treats patients like father, my mother, sister, brother." Patients have said,
?He was very patient, kind and reassuring, with great compassion? and ?I'd like to thank you for
having people like Mr. Odoommer on your staff.?

I want to take a moment and thank all of our employees for their efforts as we continue the
transformation of the Cook County Health Hospitals System into a quality, integrated patient-centered
health network that is financially responsible.

3 Page

Page 17 of 23

Page 18 of 23

Chief Business Of?cer
Roles and Responsibilities

u?
C)
(U

0.

Anthony Raj kumar 
Cook COunty Health Hospitals System

)rganization Chart

 

  

Real?smte? i


5;

     

 


(u
D.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?rojects Completed and In Progress

Standardizing work processes.

Rede?ning roles.

Page 21 of 23

Renegotiating certain contracts.
Evaluating current real estate.

Assessing the life safety and security of patients, staff,and faCilities.

Ihallenges

Contract oversight and annual evaluationprocess.
Electronic procurement system.

Aging infrastructure.?

Replacement of aging medical equipment.

Page 22 of 23

0:830st

