Minutes of the Special Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held
Thursday, July 21, 2016 at the hour of 1:00 P.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago,
Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman M. Hill Hammock and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim; Emilie N. Junge; Wayne M.
Lerner, DPH, LFACHE; Mary B. Richardson-Lowry; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese
(7)

Absent:

Vice Chairman Hon. Jerry Butler and Director Ric Estrada (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Jeff McCutchan – Interim General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

II.

Strategic Plan Process
A.

CCHHS Strategic Plan 2017-2019: Impact 2020

Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, provided an introduction to the subject, and briefly reviewed a
presentation on the Strategic Planning Timeline and Principle Objectives (Attachment #1).

III.

Receive Public Testimony
Chairman Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speakers:
1. Margie Schaps

Executive Director, Health and Medicine Policy Research Group (written
testimony also included – Attachment #2)

2. Aimee Ramirez

Public Policy Manager, Greater Chicago Food Depository

3. Venoncia Baté-Ambrus

Chief Operating Officer, Access to Care

4. Dawn Gay

Executive Director, Patient Innovation Center

Page 1 of 12

 Minutes of the Special Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, July 21, 2016
Page 2

IV.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Hammock declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 2 of 12

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Special Meeting Minutes
July 21, 2016

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 3 of 12

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH
& HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Strategic Plan Public Hearing
2017-2019
July 21, 2016

Page 4 of 12

 Strategic Planning Timeline: 2016

2

•

February 26: Strategic Planning Process Begins

•

March – May: 22 Presentations on Strategic Topics

•

April – May: 4 Community Town Halls, 3 Employee Town Halls

•

April – June: Employee Survey

•

July 11: Special Board meeting, Draft Strategic Plan Discussion

•

July 21: Public Hearing

•

July 29: CCHHS Board of Directors Votes on Strategic Plan

•

September: Present for approval to Cook County Board of Commissioners
Page 5 of 12

 Planning and Budget
Timeline Overview: 2016
Activity

February
Initiate

March

April

May

June

Assess/Design/Feedback

August
Approvals

Begin Strategic Planning
Topical Presentations
Community and Employee
Town Halls
Employee Survey Run
Special Board Meeting
Open for Public
Comment/Public Hearing
CCHHS Board Votes on
Strategic Plan
Reflect Strategic Plan in
CCHHS Budget
Cook County Board of
Commissioners Votes on
Strategic Plan
Create Implementation
Plan
Monitoring Against Goals

3

July

Page 6 of 12

September

October

November

Implement and Monitor

FY2017

 Implementing the Principle Objectives
Population
Health
Experience of Care
Deliver High Quality Care

Improve health equity

Per Capita Cost
Lead in medical
education, clinical
investigation

Investing in Resources

Leverage Valuable Assets
Grow to Serve and Compete

Develop the Workforce

Maximize financial
sustainability and
demonstrate value

Impact Social Determinants of Health

Advocate for Patients
Foster Fiscal Stewardship

Provide high quality, safe and reliable care

Safe, Timely, Effective, Efficient,
Patient-Centered Care
PageEquitable,
7 of 12

4

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Special Meeting Minutes
July 21, 2016

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 8 of 12

 Testimony on the Strategic Plan
Margie Schaps
Executive Director, 
July 21, 2016

My name is Margie Schaps, and I am the Executive Director of the Health and Medicine Policy Research

Group. i want to thank the Board for allowing the opportunity to testify about the strategic plan.

Health and Medicine was founded by Dr. Quentin Young, a physician leader in our community who

trained at Cook County Hospital in the 19505 and then went on to be the Chairman ofthe Department of

Medicine for the decade ofthe 19705 before creating organization committed to health

equity and developing and supporting systems and policies that create a healthier society. As an

organization we have done what we can to support research, policy and fiscal support for the treasure

that is the 

In 2007 Health and Medicine along with many other colleagues in the County worked to create the

ordinance establishing this independent board, and eight years later I remain very happy that we did

that.

As we all witness the dramatic changes occurring in health care right now, through the Affordable Care

Act and state health reforms, the system is adapting and creating new programs and systems to

better and more efficiently provide care to the many people needing and wanting to receive their care

through this system. I want to commend the board and the leadership team of the health system on the

strategic plan you have put together. The strategic plan developed has exactly the right focus?delivery

Page 9 of 12

of high quality health care, sound investment of resources, leveraging valuable assets, advocating for

their patients, and now importantly recognizing and laying out a plan to address the impact of the social

determinants of health. By expressly focusing on public health, prevention and addressing the social

determinants of health?the system is recognizing that by addressing these we will ultimately have a

healthier population and lower overall costs.

While we wholeheartedly support the vision laid out in the strategic plan, many challenges will face the

system in the coming years: developing and retaining the right workforce for the populations you serve,

keeping patients in the system now that many have options to receive care elsewhere through Medicaid

expansion, moving care to the communities most in need, strengthening the public health system that is

the backbone of ensuring population health, and securing the financing to provide needed programs

and services.

Our hope is that as leadership moves to implement this plan you will move on the following

recommendations:

0 Explore new workforce/team models of ca re?peer educators, community health workers, peer

support for behavioral health challenges. These have been shown to be highly effective for

many populations

Page 10 of 12

Develop a taskforce of insiders and outsiders (like to help define how the system might

best address equity and at are looking at promising practices around the

country and would be happy to support this work

Use our political leaders, the media and others to try to engage the other not for profit hospitals

in the region to take more responsibility for the care of the uninsured and underinsured in our

County. They must not step back from their responsibility to use the tax advantages given them

to provide charity care under the Illinois constitution

Explore not only new staffing models, but new sites of care delivery, for example freestanding

birth centers which are now legal in Illinois and I believe would bring many pregnant women

back to the CCH HS for their care if this alternative were available. New, low tech, low staffing

intensity programs for with behavioral health challenges, like the living room model should

be explored and implemented if feasible

Strengthen the relationship with the so that youth in the correctional system are

connected to services when they leave detention

Explore ways that and CDPH can work more closely including the option of merging as

many systems around the country have successfully done.

Continue to collaborate with others across the county to work toward insurance coverage for

those not currently covered.

Page 11 of 12

0 Continue to identify ways the system can address root causes and upstream determinants of

health such as Adverse childhood experiences identified in your plan. We are now working with

Advocate ACO and Aetna to develop plans for ensuring that every person in their workforce is

trauma and ACE informed because they too believe this will better address health problems

early and prevent higher costs later in life.

0 Be a leader in pushing the state to identify ways they can leverage federal resources for things

like behavioral health

As always, is ready and eager to help the ambitious plans identified in the strategic plan become

realized.

Page 12 of 12

