REPORT OF THE
HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 12, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors David Carvalho, Quin R. Golden, Sister
Sheila Lyne, RSM, and JorgeRamirez 

Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts (Ex-Of?cio)
Absent: None (0)

Also Present: Director Heather O?Donnell; Patrick Blanchard Assistant State?s Attorney on
Cook County Shakman Compliance; Matthew B. DeLeon Of?ce of the
Secretary to the Board; Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief,
Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Cecil Marchand Associate
Administrator, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Elizabeth Reidy Deputy
Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Jonathan Rothstein 
Acting Bureau Chief, Bureau of Human Resources of Cook County; David Small
Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System;
Dr. Jeffrey Schaider Chairman of Emergency Medicine, Stroger Hospital of
Cook County.

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System met pursuant to notice on Friday, September 12, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger

Hospital, 1901 W. HarrisonIStreet, in the ?fth ?oor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Human Resources Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report,
the recommendations follow.

Roll Call

Matthew B. DeLeon, of the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members and it was
determined that a quorum was present.

 

OLD BUSINESS

Review and discussion of proposed revision of non-physician and
physician hiring, including discussion of diversity practices.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 12, 2008

PAGE 2

David Small, Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, stated
that the Committee had received in their backup a document titled ?Hiring Process for Non-physicians
and Physicians,? dated December 1, 2007. (See Attachment Mr. Small stated that this document was
created by convening a small group of individuals representing different constituents across the System to
review possible revisions.

Mr. Small introduced Dr. Jeffrey Schaider, Chairman of Emergency Medicine at Stroger HOSpital of
Cook County, to summarize the changes to the hiring procedures and policies.

Dr. Schaider gave the Committee a brief overview of the proposed revisions to the hiring process.
Director Carvalho asked if there were other changes not highlighted in red that have been changed.
Mr. Small stated that everything in red are substantive changes.

Chairman Zopp inquired as to why the Joint Conference Committee step was eliminated.

Dr. Schaider stated that the Joint Conference Committee was essentially meeting on a quarterly basis,
rather than on a basis; this would mean a huge delay as far as going forward with the process.

Mr. Small stated that there will still be Joint Conference Committee meetings; there are members of the
Board that the Chairman has appointed to participate in those meetings. He stated that the only thing that
is changing is that they are not an intervening step to review privileging that is happening between the
Executive Medical Staff Committee (EMS) and the Board through the Quality and Patient Safety
Committee.

The discussion turned to the issue of creating applicant pools for similar positions. Jonathan Rothstein,
Acting Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources of Cook County, stated that for some positions it is
possible but for some it is not. There are two primary constraints. First, the Shakman Consent Decree
and Plan of Compliance is a court approved document; any changes to policy that are inconsistent with
that document would have to be submitted to the court for approval. Second, the provisions of certain
collective bargaining agreements might preclude implementing such policy for some positions.

Mr. Rothstein provided an example of restrictions related to creating pools of applicants for similar
positions. He stated that the registered nurses? contract requires the County to post each position
individually and to allow applicants to apply for each position individually; the posting has to include
both the department and the shift.

With respect to non-union positions, under the Plan of Compliance and the Shakman Decree every
individual that applies for a position must be interviewed for that position.

Chairman Zopp inquired whether from a policy perspective, language can be added that states ?it is the
policy that where possible, not in contradiction to union rules or other legal requirements, applicants will
be treated as a pool for all other similar jobs.?

Mr. Rothstein stated that is was-an excellent suggestion.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 12, 2008

PAGE 3

Director Carvalho stated that for some time there has been an effort to get minimum staf?ng rules in
nursing; it is challenging if the System has to overstaff in some places then also have to use overtime to
meet the minimum staf?ng in another area.

Discussion continued on the need for ?exibility to move individuals from one area to another with regard
to staf?ng needs; Chairman Zopp stated that this subject, relating to collective bargaining negotiation
strategies, will be on the agenda for the next Committee meeting.

Dr. Schaider stated that the eligibility list is created downtown with the Shakman Compliance Of?cers.
He stated that from his personal perspective as a department head he would rather receive the
applications himself and determine who 1s eligible and who he would like to interview; at this point and
time it is not possible.

Mr. Small explained the current process. An individual from the Bureau of Human Resources (HR) has
the responsibility to do a review of all applications received to ascertain whether the applicant meets
minimum requirements. Once that is done, the applications of those candidates who are deemed quali?ed
are then presented to the hiring departments for their review and subsequently, interviews are conducted.
Mr. Small indicated that there is an interest to re?de?ne the process so that the review for minimum
quali?cations of candidates can also include the hiring managers or directors.

Mr. Rothstein stated that the Compliance Plan requires that a minimum of seven applicants be sent who
meet the minimum quali?cations for the position. The departments can review the applications but this
may be dif?cult since this is a typical HR function. The mean number of applicants for most of the
positions is somewhere under ten. Those applicants with minimum quali?cations must be interviewed
pursuant to the Compliance Plan. -

Director Golden inquired whether all eligible candidates must be interviewed, and whether the candidates
are ranked.

Mr. Rothstein responded no, only those sent as eligible to the department. The department has the option
to see all candidates that are quali?ed; however ranking is not possible - at this point they can see a
random seven, not the top seven.

Chairman Zopp asked whether the jobs in Appendix A have to go through the process.
Mr. Rothstein responded no.

Chairman Zopp stated that the Committee needs to look at Appendix A. She inquired whether Appendix
A needed to be approved by the Court.

Mr. Rothstein replied af?rmatively; Appendix A is part of the Consent Decree. He added that the
Appendix A positions are more technical positions with advanced degree requirements. The Consent

Decree itself contains criteria for Appendix A positions.

Chairman Zopp asked if language can be added that allows hiring managers to review the applicants
before the eligibility list 15 created.

Mr. Rothstein stated that he would have to go back and look at the Plan of Compliance and the Decree.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 12, 2008

PAGE 4

Chairman Zopp asked Patrick Blanchard, Assistant State?s Attorney on Cook County Shakman
Compliance, to give the Committee a View on the issue of minimum quali?cations for a job.

Mr. Blanchard stated that the Committee has to keep in mind that Shakman is a process that is ongoing.
To the extent that the System Board believes that different procedures should 'be adopted, that is
something that the Board should move ahead and try to correct. He added that Mr. Rothstein is working
on the new hiring plan; Mr. Blanchard anticipates that it will have many changes that are going to be
different from what the Plan of Compliance currently calls for. In conclusion, he stated that this is the
time to address those issues; these can certainly be brought to the Compliance Administrator, former
Judge Julia Nowicki, and to the court if necessary.

Director Carvalho inquired into the Speci?c changes that need to be made to re?ect the Board?s position
that political factors not involved in ?lling of Shakman?exempt positions.

Mr. Rothstein stated that the language change could be proposed by the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce.
Director Carvalho requested that this be done.

Mr. Small stated that he will work with Mr. Rothstein? of?ce and the State?s Attomey? 5 Of?ce to make
sure that the language reflects the intent and not violate any other policies.

Mr. Rothstein stated that ?political factors? need to be de?ned.

Chairman Zopp stated that instead of using the term ?political factor,? it could instead be termed as
?ability to perform in the job.?

Chairman Zopp asked if there is a possibility to allow applications to be accepted at lOcations other than
downtown.

Mr. Rothstein referred to a memorandum that was distributed to the Committee. (See Attachment 
The ?rst bullet point in the memorandum on page two details the application process. Mr. Rothstein
stated that it does make sense to take applications for all of the positions at the various facilities; in fact,
there was a period where it was done, however, the Board of Commissioners chose to centralize the
function.

Chairman Zopp requested that the language be modi?ed to show this option. She asked Mr. Small to
coordinate with Mr. Rothstein, Dr. Schaider and Cecil Marchand to ?nd the best option.

It was determined that the proposed policy would be revised with the suggestions made at the meeting
and re?submitted to the Committee for their review. Mr. Small stated that he expects?that the revised
version to be placed on the agenda one month from now.

As the Committee was concluding their discussion of the item, Director Golden inquired as to the
timeline for an electronic system. Mr. Rothstein indicated that a decision had been made to go to an
outside resource, rather than do it in-house. They went to the current software vendor and were given a
price quote; from a technical standpoint their human resource modules can interface with the current
payroll system. There needs to be more discussion, or the level of customization may not be realized. The
goal is to implement the system by the end of this year, or possibly by the beginning of next year.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 12, 2008

PAGE 5

Mr. Small asked Mr. Marchand to explain the report distributed which details the current status of
requests to hire for the System. (See Attachment 

Mr. Marchand reviewed the document with the Committee.

Director Golden requested that the following information be included in the report: when the position was
last ?lled; whether it is a new position; and where the position is going to be located. 

In response to questions regarding budgeted positions that had been until recently unfunded, Mr.
Rothstein explained that passage of a line item budget led to the implementation of a hiring plan relative
to turnover adjustment; this limited and delayed the ?lling of positions.

Director Carvalho stated that the line item budget constraint is a problem; he inquired whether there can
there be a non- line item budget as it relates to positions.

Patrick T. Driscoil, Jr., Deputy State?s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Office of the
State?s Attorney, stated that it may be dif?cult to change in the short-term; if the Board feels that it will
be an improvement, then it should be discussed.

Chairman Batts stated his belief that adjustments are currently possible with intra-fund transfers.

Chairman Zopp stated that ?exibility IS needed; currently changes can be made but only to fund existing
positions.

On the subject of receiving reports on status of requests to hire 1n the future, Chairman Zopp stated that
they should be presented regularly.

Additionally, Chairman Zopp requested a report from Mr. Small and Mr. Marchand on diversity and
compliance with the Equal Employment Opportunity policy. It is important, she stated, to ensure that the
System is complying with the Equal Employment Opportunity policy and goals towards diversity. She
added that she received a phone call from Dr. Martinez, who previously was the Chair of the Diversity
Council at the System when it was active; she will contact him to have him appear at a future meeting.

 

Discussion of division of human resources responsibilities between the
Cook County Bureau of Human Resources and the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Chairman Zopp explained that the Committee had tasked Mr. Small and Mr. Rothstein with reviewing the
issue of the division of human resources responsibilities between the Bureau of Human Resources and the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System. She stated that they have done so, and are prepared to report
on the discussions.

Mr. Small referenced a memorandum dated September 10,2008 (see Attachment distributed to the
Committee.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 12, 2008

PAGE 6

Mr. Rothstein reviewed the-recommendations contained in the memorandum, and answered questions
with regard to current staf?ng levels and functions of those personnel involved with human resources at
the System and the Bureau.

Chairman Zopp thanked Mr. Small and Mr. Rothstein for their work; she thought the memorandum
addressed many of the issues involved, although some re?ning still needs to take place.

 

NEW BUSINESS

Review and discussion of process for developing revisions to existing Cook County
personnel rules for application to the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board.

Chairman Zopp stated that it may make sense to review sections at a time and determine changes for the
System versus the County. There also needs to be a discussion to determine the process. She noted that
there is a separate set of rules for physicians and dentists.

At the request of Director Carvalho, Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the
Of?ce of the State?s Attorney, provided the history behind the reason for the speci?c set of rules for
physicians and dentists. She stated that some requirements pursuant to the human resources ordinance
would handicap the System. Various issues were carved out of policies which would apply to physicians
and dentists. To eliminate dual documents, changes were made to the existing County document to cover
the physicians and dentists only.

Chairman Zopp stated that she wants to unify personnel policies into one document for all employees.
Portions will be reviewed at each meeting; the Committee will review a couple of sections at a time.

 

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to recess the regular session and convene
into closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et seq.,
which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The recruitment, credentialing, discipline or
formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.? THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene
into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

. September 12, 2008

 

PAGE 7
Public Comments 
Chairman Zopp asked the Secretary to call upon any registered public spea ers.
SEP 1 9 2008
The Secretary responded that there were none. 
comm
?ll?i?l??m uospms SYSTEM

 

 

 

Adioumment

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,

Human Resources Committee of the
Board of I ectors of the

Cook Healt and Hospitals System

  

 



MsWidrea L. ZOPP, a van

Attest:

    



tthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

9/12/08 Human Resources Committee Report

ATTACHNIENT #1

  
  
     
 

    
 

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES

  

     
  

- 02I01I08 AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND
PHYSICIANS HR.1.20
DATE OF ORIGIN: 12/01/07 1 CORE POLICY 

   

POLICY: The policy and procedures associated with hiring practices shall meet the legal and regulatory requirements of the
Federal, State, and County Agencies and Collective Bargaining Agents/Units. .

PURPOSE: The Cook County Health and Hospital System in cooperation with the Cook County Department of Human
. Resources has organized the hiring process so that it is uniform and consistent throughout the Health and Hospital System. The goal
is tO simplify and standardize the hiring process throughout the Health and Hospital System. 

AREAS AFFECTED: All Health and Hospital System facilities and departments? staff

TABLE OF CONTENTS: - 
Page Number PA GE NUMB 1512.950an DOCUMENTS NEED RE VISION ONCE FINA PROCESS 

 

1 Overview
1 De?nitions
2 Summary Of Key Points
3-5 Process for hiring Non?Physicians
6-8 Process for hiring Physicians and Mid-Level Providers
9 Sample of Correct Hiring forms:
10 a. Request to Hire (RTH)
11-12 b. Standard Job Description
13?14 0. Job Posting - Notice Of Job Opportunity
15 d. Eligibility List
16?1 8 e. Oral Interview Evaluation form
19-22 f. Decision tO Hire form (DTH)
23-24 g. BOH Blue Requisition form
25 h. Personnel Action form
26 1. Cook County Personnel Action Form 
27-28 j. Cook County Shakrnan Certi?cation form for County Personnel
29 k. Cook County Shakrnan Certi?cation for Applicants/Candidates
30-31 1. Form 1?9 .
32 m. Credentialing Application or Preapplication Request form
33?34 n. Application for Administrative Appointment and/ or Interim Clinical Privileges

 

35. 0. New Applicant Background Check Request
36-37 Appendix A: Alphabetical Title Report: Lists all positions that can be posted and/0r advertised in other professional
journals or newspapers as desired. Any positions elected to be posted in the Cook County Human Resources
Department shall remain posted for a minimum of 14 days. All other steps remain the same including executing all
Shakrnan Certi?cation forms. . .
38 Appendix B: Hiring Process Tracking Form: This form is to be completed by the person responsible for each step
in the process to track progress and identify personnel. i 
DEFINITI ON 3' The Department of Human Resources (Dept. of HR) is the Cook County department responsible for
providing management Of hiring and employment practices for all County employees. 

2. Health and Hospital System ~Administrative Staff Services S) is the centralized department
coordinating the process? Of the human resource functions to ensure that the health care system
determines the quali?cations and competencies for staff positions based on its mission, population, care,
treatment, and services.

3. Shakrnan Certi?cation is the documentation required to certify that political reasons or factors were not
considered as part of the hiring or employment process for Shakrnan covered positions.

4. Cook County Bureau of Human Resources Web address: 

 

APPROVED Interim Chief, 

SIGNATURE TITLE . DATE

Interim Bureau Chief, Human Resources

SIGNATURE TITLE DATE

       

  

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES

HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND
PHYSICIANS

    
  
 

     
 

POLICY NUMBER:

POLICY TITLE:
HR.1 .20

 
 
 
  

   
 
 

    
 

 
   

 
 

DATEOF ORIGIN: 12101107 . 1 CORE POLICY 
02l01l08 1 AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

 

- Hiring of Non?Physicians KEY POINTS

KEY POINT 1 
The Department Director must indicate in the Job Description the job qualifications versus job duties. Job quali?cations

are certifications, training, etc. required in order for the individual to be selected. These cannot be listed in the posting under

job duties.

Ml 
The only signatures required on the RT are the Department Director and C00. 

KEY POINT 3
If the person being recalled is being placed in the same position with the same PID and the qualifications have not

changed, the person does not have to be interviewed.

KEY POINT 4 -
The Department Director/Chairman must notify HHS-ADSS (Ms Pamela Campbell 312-864-0420 or Mr. Cecil Marchand

312-864-0421) of the interview dates so that they can afford the Shakman Compliance Administrator the opportunity to be
present and observe the interview process.

KEY POINT 
If an internal candidate is accepted, the candidate can be released within 2 weeks. It takes 2 weeks to put them into payroll.

KEY POINT 6 I
Those employees, who are taking a promotion, transfer, or demotion, will not be required to attend orientation, unless

moving to a new facility.

macaw 
Political reasons or factors may not enter into personnel decisions for Shakman covered Cook County positions. The Cook

County Shakman Certification form for County Personnel must be executed by every employee having apart in the hiring or
employment process. Applicants and Candidates for employment will have a separate Shakman Certi?cation form which will
be executed by the Applicant or Candidate as part of the application process and shall be turned in with the Application for

employment.

Hiring of Physicians and Mid-level providers KEY POINTS

KEY POINT 1
[f incumbent is vacating, then submit:
0 Personnel Action form to HHS-ADSS
- 0 Final time card w/ vacation payout to Payroll
Submit at least one full pay period before starting date


Political reasons or factors may not enter into personnel decisions for Shakman covered Cook County positions. The Cook

County Shakman Certification form for County Personnel must be executed by every employee/physician having a part in the
hiring or employment process. Physician Applicants and Candidates for employment will execute the Cook County Shakman
Execution for Applicants/Candidates during the interview process; this executed form should then be collected during the
interview process and forwarded with the Hiring Packet. 

 
 
  

   
 

  

POLICY TITLE:
PHYSICIANS
DATE OF ORIGIN: 1ZIO1I07

REVIEWED REVISED: 02I01I08

  
  

  
   

PROCESS FOR HIRING 

. Department Director/Chairman
a) The Department Director/ Chairman completes:
A Job Description .
0 Request to Hire (RTH) with the Grade/ Step
indicated in appropriate section.
A standard job posting (Notice of Job Opportunity) will be
used. Any additional quali?cations or job duties must be
. indicated! on the-Request to Hire
b) Initiates Hiring Process Tracking Form
c) For executive/hard to recruit positions, Department Chair
contacts System CEO/designee to request approval of an
outside resource to assist in recruitment. Outside resource
should meet the following criteria: 
0 Approved county vendor
0 Demonstrated experience in recruitment of
positions? skill set 7
Proven record of recruitment of diverse candidates.
d) Department will follow Cook County?s Equal
Employment Opportunity Plan and make a best effort to

promote divers'ty wi in the stern.
Dar) posh ?sciatic
Execu he Coo Cou ty Shakman Certification form

for County Personnel and forward with the RTH

KEY POINT 1

The Department Director must indicate in the Job
Description the job quali?cations versus job duties. _io_lg
Qualifications are certifications, training, etc. required 'in
order for the individual to be selected. These cannot be listed
in the posting under job duties.

2. Facility Chief Operating Of?cer [2 Days]
a) Facility Chief Operating Of?cer (COO) reviews:
0 RTH 
0 Job Description
0 Standard Job Posting
0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel
0 Hiring Process Tracking Form
b) Veri?es that the position is ?3an and funded (internal
process)
0) Signs and forwards forms to the Health and Hospital
System-ADSS Director/designee

KEY POINT 2

The only signatures required on the RTH are the Department
Director and C00. The Department Director and COOshall
execute the Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel.

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

1 CORE POLICY
.1 AREA SPECIF

 
 
 

     
   
  
 

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1.20

PAGE: Sat 12 

3. Health and Hospital System-ADSS Director/designee [3
Days] 
The Health and Hospital System-ADSS 
veri?es the information and returns any inaccurate RTH
forms to the Department Director/Chairman. If accurate,
the forms are forwarded to the Deputy Chief, Bureau of

. Human Resources (Ms. Doris Gershon, 312?603-6121) who

determines which are given to the Labor Relation Officer
(Ms. Patricia Davis) ..

 
 
   

   

IC POLICY

4. Downtown Dept. Human Resources [4 Days] -

I The Labor Relation Officer (Ms. Davis, 312?603-2029)
determines whether the position is on the
recall/reinstatement list.

a) If the position is on the recall/reinstatement list,the recall
is processed. 
For all technical/professional positions, Ms. Davis will
contact the department-director/ chairman to inquire if
there are any additional quali?cations in accordance with
the collective bargaining agreement.
The Department will have the right to interview the
recalled individual. Ms. Davis cOntacts the recalled
individual, schedules return to work physical with EHS,
and arranges a starting date. 'She informs HHS-ADSS for
processing of ID badges. The employee is scheduled to
start at the next pay period if they have been cleared by
EHS. Ms. Davis will sign the Hiring Process Tracking
Form and Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel. 

KEYPOINT 3 .

If the person being recalled is being placed in the same
position with the same PID and the qualifications have
not changed, the person does not have to be interviewed.

- b) If the position is NOT on the recall/reinstatement list, the
Labor Relation Of?cer informs the Deputy Chief, Bureau
of Human Resources (Ms. Gershon) who assigns a BHR
number on the RTH and posts the notice of Job
Opportunity. Signs Hiring Process Tracking Form and
Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for County
Personnel. .

5. Deputy Chief, Bureauof Human Resources [4 Days]

The Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources (Ms.
Gershon) will post the position within 4 days. The job is
posted downtown, at the facility, and on?line for 14 days.
Hiring Process Tracking Form and Cook County Shakman

Certi?catiOn form for County Personnel are signed. 

 
    

POLICY TITLE:
PHYSICIANS

DATE OF ORIGIN: 12IO1IO7
REVIEWED REVISED: 02I01I08

6. Applicants [14 days]/ Dept. HR
Applicants can download an application or pick up an
application at one of the Bureau facilities. Internal and
external applications must be hand delivered to downtown
HR where they will receive a receipt verifying that the
application was received, including all supporting
documents; transcripts). The individual will be given
and be able to download the Cook County Shakman
Certi?cation for Applicants/Candidates; said Shakman
Certi?cation form must be executed by the

applicant! candidate.

7. Personnel Analyst(s) Dept. HR [3?7 Days]

a) At the end of the posting period, all applications will be
forwarded to the Personnel Analyst dowmown. After
close review, those quali?ed are entered into the Tracking
system and an Eligibility List is generated. The list
consists of the names of those applicants who meet the
minimum job quali?cations. HR Tracking form and Cook

County Shakman Certi?cation form for County Personnel

are signed.

b) All applicants on the Eligibility List are sent from
downtown HR to HHS-ADSS along with the following
documents:
0 Job Description
0 Job Posting
0 Completed Job Applications (for each applicant)
0 Oral Interview Evaluation forms attached to
each application (one for each interviewer for each
applicant) 
7 The executed Cook County Shakman Certi?cation
for Applicants/Candidates
0 Decision to Hire form
Hiring Process Tracking Form
Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel

00

8. Healthand Hospital System-ADSS Director/designee [2
Days]
Forwards the completed package to the Department
Director/Chairman who will schedule interviews.

HR Tracking form and Cook County Shakman Certi?cation 

form for County Personnel are signed.

KEY POINT 4

The Department Director/Chairman must notify HHS-ADSS
(Ms Pamela Campbell 312-864-0420 or Mr. Cecil 
312-864-0421) of the interview dates so that they can afford
the Shakman Compliance Administrator the opportunity to be
present and observe the interview process.

-PHYSICIANS AND

CORE POLICY
EA SPECIFIC POLICY

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
HIRING PROCESS FOR NON

 

   

PAGE: 4 of 12 

 

9. Department Director/Chairman [7 Days]

a) Interviews will be completed within 7 days
b) Following forms are completed:
0 Oral Interview Evaluation form (one form for each
interviewer and applicant)
0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel (front and back side of form)
0 Decision to Hire form
0 Hiring Process Tracking Form
c) Forms are returned to the 

10. Health and Hospital System-ADSS Director/designee 

10 Days] 

a) The contacts selected applicants and offers
position. 

b) After applicant accepts, the HHS-ADSS completes the
BOH Blue Requisition form, signs Hiring Process
Tracking Form and Cook County Certi?cation form for
County Personnel and ensures ALL the forms in packet
(below) are completed." .

c) Sends the packet to the Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human
Resources (Ms. Doris Gershon, Items in
packet include: 

Decision to Hire forms

BOH Blue Requisition form

Eligibility List

Job Posting

Copy of RTH form containing BHR number
Oral Interview Evaluation forms

Executed Shakman Certi?cations

Hiring Process Tracking Form

(1) contacts candidate for pre?employment
processing including completion of Background Check
Request form at the facility and instructs applicant after
completing form to report downtown for ?ngerprinting.
HHS-ADSS will call Employee Health Services 
312?864-1970) to schedule a full health screening.



KEY POINT 5 
If an internal candidate is accepted, the candidate can be
released within 2 weeks. It takes 2 weeks to put them into

payroll.

11.Downtown Dept. Human Resources [1 Day]
DeputyChief, Bureau of Human Resources (Ms. Gershon)
will:
a) Verify the required signatures and approve the BOH Blue
Requisition form

b) Fax approval to (FAX 312-864?9590)

0) Sign Hiring Process Tracking Form

d)Grant of Authority is prepared

 

  
 
   

 
   

POLICY TITLE:

PHYSICIANS

ORIGIN: 12I01I07
IO1I08

DATE OF
REVIEWED REVISED: 02

   

. 12,. Applicant
a) Reports to EHS at designated date/time for a complete
physical, drug screening, and PPD 
b) Reports downtown for ?ngerprinting with proper
7 identi?cation and supporting documents.

13.Employee Health Service (EHS) [5 Days]
a) Performs health screening according to job position
physical exam/drug screen/PPD
b) sends Medical Clearance to 

14. Health and Hospital System-ADSS [2-10 Days]
a) negotiates a start date with the applicant and
schedules hospital orientation for start of next pay period
b) Submits yellow work order (internal form) and supporting

documents indicating start date to downtown HR.
0) Signs Hiring Process Tracking Form

15. Downtown Dept. Human Resources
Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources (Ms.Gershon)

enters informahon into FMIS with starting date.

16. Health and Hospital System?ADSS
Conducts orientation at start of pay period; distributes LD.
badges and directs new employee to their department at
completion of orientation. 

KEY POINT 6

Those employees, who are taking a promotion, transfer, or
demotion, will not be required to attend orientation, unless
moving to a new facility.

KEY POINT 7 
Political reasons or factors may not enter into personnel
decisions for Shakman covered Cook County positions.
The Cook County Shakman Certification form for County
Personnel must be executed by every?employee having a
part in the hiring or employment process. Applicants and
Candidates for employment will have a separate Shakman
Certi?cation form which will be executed by the Applicant
or Candidate as part of the application process and shall be
turned in with the Application for employment.

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

  
   
   
  

 
 
  
      
  

1 CORE POLICY
1 AREA SPECI

FIC POLICY

  

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1.20 -

 
  
  

  

  
  
 
 
   

POLICY TITLE:

7 DATE OF 1
REVIEWED REVISED: 02l01108

   
   

    

COOK COUNTY BUREAU 

 

PHYSICIANS
2IO1I07

        
 

 

ORIGIN:

ROCESS FOR HIRING PHYSICIANS AND



PROVIDERS



1. Division Chief/Department Chairman

2

a) Department identi?es a vacancy and funding
b) Completes: 
A Job Description
0 Request to Hire (RTH) with the Grade/ Step
indicated in appropriate section.
NOTE: Division Chiefs must send the RTH to the
Department Chairman fer approval before it can go to the

- COO. -

Specify either candidates name or on the RTH
c) Initiates and executes Cook County Shakman
Certi?cation form for County Personnel
d) initiates Hiring Process Tracking Form
If position is occupied: attach resignation letter

e) For executive/hard to recruit positions, Department Chair-

contacts System CEO/designee to request approval of an
outside resource to assist in recruitment. Outside resource
should meet the following criteria:
0 Approved county vendor -
Demonstrated experience in recruitment of
positions? skill set

0 Proven record of recruitment of diverse candidates.

f) Department will follow Cook County? Equal
Employment Opportunity Plan and make a best effort to
promote diversity within the system.

. Facility Chief Operating Of?cer (C00) [2 Days]

a) Facility Chief Operating Of?cer (COO) reviews:

0 RTH 

0 Job Description

0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County?Personnel 

Hiring Process Tracking Form
b) Confirms the vacancy and funding
c) Signs and forwards all forms to the Health and Hospital
System-Administrative Staff Services 
Director.
The COO signature is a commitment to maintain the
vacancy and funding as budgeted.

Health and Hospital System-ADSS Director/designee [3
Days]

. The Health and Hospital System ADSS 

provides the Department Director/ Chairman with the

following forms for each position:

0 Copy of completed and signed RTH -
0 Job Description
0 Oral Interview Evaluation form

LTH SERVICES
-PHYSICIANS AND

   
   

HIRING PROCESS FOR NON

ORE POLICY
A SPECIFIC POLICY

 

  
  

0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel

0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation for
Applicants! Candidates

0 Decision to Hire form

4. Division Chieleepartment Chairman

The Division Chief/Department Chairman will:

a) Recruit and schedule candidate interviews

b) NOTIFY HHS-ADSS (Ms Pamela Campbell 312?864?
0420 or Mr. Cecil Marchand 312-864-0421) of the
interview dates so they can a?ord the Shakman
Compliance Administrator the opportunity to be present
and observe the interview process.

0) Interview candidates

d) Complete and submit to 

0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel 

0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation for
Applicants/ Candidates (Interviewers shall be
responsible for providing the Applicant] Candidate
Shakman Certi?cation form to the
applicant/interviewee as well as collecting the
executed form) 7

0 Oral Interview evaluation form (one form for each
interviewer for each applicant)

0 Decision to Hire (DTH) form, with justi?cation

6) Offer position to candidate, pending Quality and Patient
Safety Committee approval 

The department completes the Credentialing

Application Request form and returns to the Credentialing

Veri?cation Of?ce (CVO, 312?864?0450).

(Note: this starts the 90 Day credentialing clock)

5. Credential Veri?cation Of?ce (CVO) Days]
Sends full credentialing application packet to applicant

6. Applicant
Completes and submits credentialing applicationpacket to
CVO: .
0 Medical staff application (IDPH forms)
0 Clinical privileges_(departmenta1 form)
0 Supporting documentation -

7. Health and Hospital System?ADSS [2 Days]
a) The completes:
0 Decision to Hire form
0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel
b) Signs Hiring Process Tracking Form and Cook County
Shakman Certi?cation form for County Personnel

   
          
 

  
  

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HEALT

POLICY TITLE:
PHYSICIANS
ORIGIN: 12l01l07

DATE OF
REVIEWED REV SED: _02l01l08

  
 

       
   

 
 
   

C) Completes BOH Blue Requisition and holds until
noti?cation Of Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Approval. 

8. Credentials Veri?cation Of?ce (CVO) [6-8 weeks]

a) Initiate/Check credentials application forward to:
Credentials Committee of the EMS
0 Executive Medical Staff

b) CVO director prepares report for Quality and Patient

. Safety Committee in conjunction with the HHS CEO.
c) Copy Of report is Faxed to HHS-ADSS (312?864-9590) so
that BOH Blue Requisition can be prepared.

9. Quality and Patient Safety Committee [2 Days]
Assistant to Secretary Of the Board provides copy of Approved
Stamped Quality and Patient Safety Committee Report to
Deputy Chief, Bureau Of Human Resources (Ms.GershOn)

10. Downtown Human Resources [1 Day]
Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources (Ms.Gershon)
receives noti?cation of approved Quality and Patient Safety
Committee Report and copies to:
(FAX 312 864 9590)
CVO (FAX 312 864 9242)

- 11. Health and Hospital System-ADSS [1 Day]
a) Forwards all completed forms to Deputy Chief, Bureau Of
Human Resources (Ms. Doris Gershon, 312-603-6121).
0 Signed RTH
BOH Blue Requisition - .
0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County ersonnel
0 Completed Cook County Shakman Certi?cation for
Applicants/ Candidates
b) Contacts candidate for pro?employment processing
including completion of Background Check Request form
at the facility and instructs applicant after completing form
to report downtown for ?ngerprints. will call
Employee Health Services (EHS, 312?864-1970) tO
schedule a full health screening for applicant.

12. Credentials Veri?cation Of?ce (CVO)
CVO sends out appointment letter to applicant and copies tO
Department Chairman and 

KEY POINT 1
If incumbent is vacating, then submit:

Personnel Action form to HHS-ADSS

Final time card w/ vacation payout to Payroll
Submit at least one full pay period before starting date

SERVICES

HIRING-PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

POLICY
PECIFIC POLICY

 

 
    

  
 

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1.20

PAGE: 7 of 12

   
 
 

 

    
 

13. Applicant
a) Reports to EHS at designated date/time for a complete
physical, drug screening, and PPD
b) Reports downtown for fingerprinting with proper
identification including:
0 Supporting documents for form 1?9

14.] Employee Health Service (EHS) [5 Days]
Performs health screening according to job position,
physical exam! drug screen/PPD
EHS sends Medical Clearance to 

15. Health and Hospital System-ADSS [2-10 Days]
a) negotiates a start date with the applicant and
schedules hospital orientation for start Of next pay period
b) Submits yellow work order (internal form) and
supporting documents indicating start date to downtown
HR.

16. Downtown Human Resources
a) Grant of Authority prepared
b) Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
(Ms.Gershon) enters information into FMIS including
starting date.

17. Health and Hospital System-ADSS [7-14 Days]

Conducts orientation at start of pay period and distributes
LD. badges. 
Upon conclusion of orientation, HHS-ADSS directs new
employee to: 

CVO for completion of Medicare provider

enrollment forms 
Hiring department

wall . 
Political reasons or factors may not enter into personnel
decisions for Shakman covered Cook County positions. The --
Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for County
Personnel must be executed by everyemployee/physician
having a part in the hiring or employment process. Physician
Applicants and Candidates for employment will execute the
Cook County Shakman Execution for Applicants/Candidates
during the interview process; this executed form should then be
collected during the interview process and forwarded with the
Hiring Packet.

        

 
  
   

HEALTH SERVICES
N-PHYSICIANS AND

COOK COUNTY BUREAU .OF

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NO
PHYSICIANS

12101107
SED: 02I01IOB

   
     

 

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1 .20

PAGE: 8 of 12

 

      
 
   

  
 
  

  
 

   

    

    

ORI


   
  

   
 

GIN: CORE POLICY
REVI AREA SPECIFIC 

I

Administrative Appointment

An administrative appointment will temporarily bypass
steps 8 and'9 above. The Credentialing Application and
supporting documents (step 6) must be received by the CVO
of?ce prior to administrative appointment. Under EMS
Bylaws, an administrative appointment is only valid for 6
months. If Step 8 is not completed within 6 months, the
privileges lapse. -

Division Chief/Dep artment Chair

Completes ?Application for Administrative Appointment
and/ or Interim Clinical privileges? form and forwards to
CVO of?ce.

Credentials Veri?cation Of?ce
Checks credentials application,_ signs the ?Application for
Administrative Appointment and/or Interim Clinical
privileges? forwards for signature to:

0 Chief Medical Of?cer

0 Chair, Credentials Committee of the EMS

0 President, Executive Medical Staff

0

Chief Operating Of?cer

After ?Application for Administrative Appointment and/or
Interim Clinical privileges? is signed off, Step 11 above
begins.

      
   

 
 
 
 


FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND -

  

HIRING PROCESS
PHYSICIANS

12101107 1 CORE POLICY
1 AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1.20
PAGE: 9 of 12

      
   

  
  
    

   

RIGIN:
s. REVISED: 02I01108

DATE OF 0
REVIEWED

 

  

 
 

EAU OF HEALTH SERVICES
-PHYSICIANS AND

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1.20 .
PAGE: 10 of 12

 
 
 

  
  

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 12I01I07
REVIEWED 02/01108

  
   

 
 
  

POLICY TITLE:

DATE OF ORIGIN:

  

REVIEWED REVISED: 02101I08

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HEA
HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

HR.1.20
1 
- AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

PHYSICIANS

12I01I07

 

   

LTH SERVICES

 

PO

 
  

LICY NUMBER:

    
  
 
  

 

 
  
      
   

EALTH SERVICES
N- PHYSICIANS AND

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF 

CY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NO
PHYSICIANS

DATEO OF ORIGIN. 12101107
REVIEWED 8: REVISED. 

 

  

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1 .20
PAGE: 12 of 12 .

  
 
  
   

  

     

1 COREP POL LICY
1 AREA SPECIF

9/12/08 Human Resources Committee Report

ATTACHMENT #2

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
0F COOK COUNTY

TODD H. STROGER
JONATHAN A. ROTHSTEIN

 

PRESIDENT
. ACTING CHIEF OF HUMAN RESOURCES
EARLEAN COLLENS - Dist. PETER SILVESTRI 91h Dlsl3rd or: JGHN P. mm 11m County Building
WILLIAM M. BEAVERS 4111 Dist. FORREST 12th DInt. 118 North Clark Street
DEBURAH SIMS DESI. LARRY SUFFREDIN I3II1 Chicagu 60602-1304

PATRICIA MURPHY ?lh l. GREGG GOSLIN 14th Dist. 
lggem MORENO 7m Di; mom 0. SCHNEIDER 15m Dist. (312) 603-3300 TEL
sesame MALDONADD . an Dist. ANTHONY .5. PEHAIGA tan am. (312) 603-5404 FAX
ELIZABETH ANN BUDDY GORMAN ?lth (312) 603-5255 TDD
To: Andrea Zopp,
Chair, Health and HosPital System Board HR Committee
From: Cecil Marchand,
Associate Administrator
Jonathan A. Rothstein, 
Acting Chief, Bureau 0 Human Resources
Date: September 11, 2008
Re: Recommendations for Division of Functions Between the County Bureau of Human

Resources and the Health and Hospital System

 

We have reviewed Mr. Small?s organization chart for the human resources function in the Health
and Hospital System with a View to determining which, if any, functions currently
being performed by the Cook County Bureau of Human Resources (?Bureau? or Some
brief background is in order, followed by our thoughts on an appropriate division of labor in both
the short and medium term.

Background -
Historically, the various af?liates of the predecessor to the HHS, the Bureau of Health Services,

through their human resources staff, performed a number of functions that are currently being
performed by'the administrative staff services departments at the af?liates, along with some
additional functions that are currently being-performed by the Bureau. Several years ago, the
Board of Commissioners decided that functions performed by the Bureau of Health Services
should be centralized for ef?ciency and cost savings. As a result, certainfunctions (and
associated staff) were transferred to the BER while remaining staff continued to perform many
human resource functions under the re-named departments of administrative staff services. This
system proved unworkable in practice, and Mr. Marchand along with some of the staff was
moved back to the Stroger Hospital campus to shore-up the human resource function. Mr.
Marchand has been functioning as the director of human resources for Stroger Hospital as well as
coordinating the activities of the other af?liates with human resource ?mctions. Prior to Mr.
M'archand assuming this role, their has never been a human resources manager with system-wide
responsibility, and Mr. Merchand continues to do double duty.

I Printed on Recycled Paper

Andrea Zopp
September 11, 2008
Page 2

The HHS employs about 25 FTEs in the various af?liates who are performing various human
resource functions. The BHR works closely with this staff, especially in the areas of hiring,

employee discipline and administration of the collective bargaining agreements. For a variety of
reasons related to systems (the MIS payroll and accounting system that controls placement of
employees on the payroll), legal (HHS staff continue under County ordinance to be employees of
the County and compliance with various County ordinances along with the County 3 obligations
under the Shakman Consent Decree are required) and practical (primarily limitations 1n HHS
human resources staf?ng) will make it dif?cult to disentangle the human resources function of
the HHS from the County. Nevertheless, certain things can be done immediately and others in
the medium term (subject primarily to staf?ng-up the human resources function at the HHS) to
give the HHS greater control of these functions. Divorcing the human resources function from
the County is a longer term project, and obviously complete separation would be impossible,
absenta major re-de?nintion of the employer in this case as well as the installation of signi?cant
replacement infrastructure, primarily in the form of a separate payroll and accounting system.

Reggmmendations

With this background, we have the following recommendations:

0 The hiring process would remain the same in the short term with the following
exceptions: l.-Eli1nination of HHS CEO signature on all documents (af?liate COOS have
?nal signature authority); 2. Applications will be accepted at each af?liate during the
posting period. Many of the in the boxed bullet points (employment offers,
position) are already being performed at the HHS. In connection with these changes, and
in cooperation with Dr. Shaider, we have made changes to the hiring policy to re?ect
these changes as necessary.

. In the medium term, it is recommended that staff he added for the recruiting function. If
this is a high prioroity, it should be part of the FY2009 submission. If not, the BHR has
. budgeted in FY2009 for a recruiting staff of four employees. The Bureau could allocate 2
of these positions to eXecutive, physician, nurse and hard to ?ll clinical positions until 
such time as the HHS is ready to assume full responsibility for this function.

. Staff processing function should remain as is. There is no ef?ciency in HHS taking over
background checks, and tuition reimbursement is not budgeted by HHS. If HHS were to
budget for tuition, this function could be taken over, but it will also pose logistical
problems with some agreements AFSCME) where reimbursement is from a single
?md administered county-wide.

. Labor relations should remain as is The ordinance establishing the HHS requires County
to take the lead 1n negotiations and neither the staff nor structure exists to have grievances
at 3rd step (step prior to arbitration) heard at the HHS level. This might also require a

 

Andrea Zopp
September 11, 2008
Page 3

at 3rd step (step prior to arbitration) heard at the HHS level. This might also require a
contract change as current agreements specify that Bureau Chief for BHR is the person
charged with responding at the?:rd step.

- Training should be an HHS function provided funding available in FY09 budget.

0 Compensation - should be an HHS function subject to ?mding in FY09 budget. Job
descriptions prepared by HHS subject to review and comment by BHR.

Finally, there are some ?mctions that are performed in part by employees at HHS facilities (or
budgeted to HHS facilities) and in part by Bureau employees. These include the employee
assistance program and certain aspects of return to work medical evaluations. The medical
evaluations should be performed entirely by HHS employees, which will require the involvement
of employee health to determine the most effective Way to accomplish this transition. We would
recommend no change in the administration of the EAP program as there are ef?ciencies related
to the centralization of this program that would be lost if an entirely separate EAP program was
created. In any event, this would require additional staff he budgeted, and is probably not the
highest priority item at the present time. 

cc: Members of the, Committee
David Small

