 

PART II: GENERAL CONDITIONS
For purposes of these General Conditions, references to the “County” include the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System (“CCHHS”) and references to the “CCHHS” include
the “County.”
GC-01 SUBCONTRACTING OR ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT OR CONTRACT FUNDS
The CCHHS has engaged the Contractor to perform all Services and to provide all the Goods,
Services and/or Deliverables and Contractor hereby accepts such engagement upon such terms.
Contractor shall be the prime contractor hereunder, and, subject to the terms and conditions hereof,
Contractor hereby assumes full and total responsibility for obtaining and providing the
Deliverables described herein.
Contractor agrees, in accordance with terms and conditions of this Contract, to: (i) act at all times
as the single point of reference and contact for the CCHHS with regard to this Contract and all
performance hereunder; (ii) to procure and provide to the CCHHS all of the Deliverables specified
in this Contract, regardless of whether any particular Goods or services are manufactured or
supplied directly by Contractor or through third parties; (iii) to provide, install, configure,
implement and integrate the Deliverables and to furnish efficient business administration and
project management services with respect to the engagement, and appropriately supervise all work
performed as part of the engagement, as necessary and appropriate to complete the installation,
configuration, implementation and integration of such Deliverables; (iv) to provide ongoing
support, maintenance, and repair of all such Goods; (iv), and to perform all of the Services
described in this Contract including, but not limited to, coordinating the related activities of any
of Contractor’s subcontractors and any applicable manufacturers, supplies, or licensors.
Once awarded, this Contract shall not be subcontracted or assigned, in whole or in part, without
the advance written approval of the Director of Supply Chain Management (“SCM Director”) or
SCM Director designee in his or her sole discretion. In no case, however, shall such approval
relieve the Contractor from its obligations or change the terms of the Contract. The Contractor
shall not transfer or assign any Contract funds or any interest therein due or to become due without
the advance written approval of the SCM Director. The unauthorized subcontracting or assignment
of the Contract, in whole or in part, or the unauthorized transfer or assignment of any Contract
funds, either in whole or in part, or any interest therein, which shall be due or are to become due
the Contractor shall have no effect on the County. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Parties agree
that assignment of this Contract, in whole or in part, within an enterprise of which either party is
a part or to a successor organization by merger or acquisition does not require the consent of the
other, but in the event if such merger or acquisition, the Contractor shall provide notice to the SCM
Director as soon as practicable. The CCHHS shall have the right to terminate the Contract for
convenience, in the event the CCHHS in its sole discretion deems such merger or acquisition to
have impaired the Contract.

Page 1 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

Prior to the commencement of the Contract, the Contractor shall identify in writing to the SCM
Director all subcontractors it intends to use in the performance of the Contract. The SCM Director
shall have the right to disapprove any subcontractor. Identification of subcontractors to the SCM
Director shall be in addition to any communications with County offices other than the SCM
Director. All subcontractors shall be subject to the terms of this Contract. Contractor shall
incorporate into all subcontracts all the provisions of the Contract which affect such subcontract.
Copies of subcontracts shall be provided to the SCM Director upon request.
GC-02 PERSONNEL
The quality, experience and availability of personnel employed by the Contractor are of the
essence. The Contractor shall provide the County with a list of all key personnel to be used on the
project and their designated assignment. The list shall include the qualifications of each person
named. The County may at any time request, in writing, the Contractor to remove any of the
Contractor's assigned personnel for cause and forthwith furnish to the County other acceptable
personnel with thirty (30) days of notification. Notwithstanding the County's approval of
Contractor's personnel, the Contractor shall be fully responsible to County for all work performed
pursuant to this Contract by Contractor's employees, subcontractors or others who may be retained
by the Contractor with the approval of the County. To the extent this Contract provides for
Contractor to perform services for CCHHS, Contractor shall familiarize itself with the current
Cook County Living Wage established by the County’s Chief Financial Officer and shall document
that employees assigned to provide services hereunder are paid not less than the applicable Cook
County Living Wage. To the extent that Contractors employees or subcontractor employees
engage in construction hereunder, Contractor shall familiarize itself with the Illinois Prevailing
Wage Act and shall document that employees assigned to perform construction hereunder are paid
not less than the applicable Illinois Prevailing Wage. Additionally, as applicable, Contractor’s
employees or subcontractors will provide services that require an appointment to the Medical Staff
and/or that require appropriate clinical privileges, Contractor shall assure that such appointments
and/or privileges have been secured prior to permitting such persons to provide the subject
services.
If the Services provided pursuant to this Contract are janitorial cleaning services, window cleaning
services, elevator operator and starter services, and security services, they are considered “Covered
Services” within the meaning of Cook County Ordinances, Section 34-163. In executing this
contract, Contractor certifies all personnel assigned to provide Covered Services hereunder shall
receive not less than the prevailing rate of wages, fringe benefits and prevailing working
conditions, as defined hereunder. To satisfy the County’s requirements, wages, fringe benefits and
working conditions shall be no less favorable than those posted by the Chief of the Bureau of
Human Resources on the County’s website or, in the absence of information posted thereon, as
posted on the website of the State Department of Labor. Contractor shall provide documentation
in support of its certification as requested by the CCHHS.
GC-03 INSURANCE
Contractor shall purchase prior to commencing services and shall maintain at its own cost and
expense, in full force and effect during the term of this Contract the following insurance coverages,
Page 2 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

Workers' Compensation Insurance.
Workers' Compensation shall be in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois or any other
applicable jurisdiction. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall also include the following
provisions:
I.

Employers' Liability coverage with limits of:

$ 1,000,000 each Accident;
$ 1,000,000 each Employee; and
$ 1,000,000 Policy Limit for Disease.
II.

Broad form all states coverage

Commercial General Liability Insurance.
The Commercial General Liability shall be on an occurrence form basis to cover bodily injury and
property damage including loss of use. General Liability limits shall not be less than $ 1,000,000
per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate combined single limit for bodily injury and property
damage. The General Liability policy shall include, without limitation the following coverages:
I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.

All premises and operations;
Broad Form Blanket Contractual Liability;
Products/Completed Operations;
Broad Form Property Damage Liability; and
Cross liability

Comprehensive Automobile Liability Insurance.
Comprehensive Automobile Liability to cover all owned, non-owned and hired automobiles,
trucks and trailers. The Comprehensive Automobile Liability limits shall not be less than the
following:
Liability - All Autos: Bodily Injury & Property Damage – $1,000,000 per Occurrence; and
Uninsured/Motorists: Per Illinois Requirements.
Umbrella/Excess Liability Insurance.
I.
$2,000,000 each occurrence for all liability; and
II.
$2,000,000 in the aggregate per policy year separately with respect to products and
completed operations.
Professional Liability Insurance.
I.

$1,000,000.00 each occurrence; and
Page 3 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

II.

$3,000,000.00 in the aggregate.

Cyber/Security and Privacy Liability Coverage.
This coverage applies damages arising from failure of computer security, or wrongful release of
private information, in an amount of at least $2,000,000 per claim and in the aggregate.
Contractor shall furnish a certificate or certificates of insurance to CCHHS prior to commencing
performance under the Contract which evidences the above coverages. The insurance purchased
and maintained by Contractor shall be primary and not excess or pro rata to any insurance issued
by the County.
Additional Insured.
The Commercial General Liability and Excess Liability policies must name the County of Cook, its
elected and appointed officials, and its agents and employees as additional insureds in connection
with the activities contemplated by the scope of this Contract.
Qualification of Insurers.
All insurance companies providing coverage shall be licensed or approved by the Department of
Insurance, State of Illinois, and shall have a financial rating no lower than (A-) VII as listed in
A.M. Best's Key Rating Guide, current edition or interim report. Companies with ratings lower
than (A-) VII will be acceptable only upon written consent of the Cook County Department of
Risk Management.
Subcontractor Insurance Requirements.
Contractor shall require that providers who become Subcontractors to Contractor perform such
functions as utilization review or credentialing hereunder, carry professional liability insurance in
an amount of $1,000,000 per each occurrence and $3,000,000 in the aggregate.
GC-04 INSPECTION AND RESPONSIBILITY
This paragraph shall be applicable to the sale of Goods: At all times during the term of the
Contract and at any location where the Contract is performed, the County shall have a right to
inspect any Goods provided in carrying out this Contract. The Contractor shall be solely
responsible for the quality and standards of all Goods furnished under this Contract. Goods may
be rejected by the SCM Director and/or the Designee of the Using Department if they fail to meet
Contract requirements. In the event of such rejection, Goods shall be replaced and/or re-performed
by the Contractor promptly and at no additional cost to the County. Any Goods rejected shall be
removed within a reasonable time from the premises of the County at the entire expense of the
Contractor, after notice has been given by the County to the Contractor that such have been
rejected. As applicable, Goods shall be provided in a manner that complies with all accreditation
standards including, but not limited to, the Medicare Conditions of Participation and standards of
The Joint Commission.

Page 4 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

This paragraph shall be applicable to the procurement of Services. Contractor shall be solely
responsible for the quality and standards of all Services and applicable Deliverables furnished
under this Contract and shall comply with the performance indicators described in Exhibit 2: Scope
of Work. Deliverables may be rejected by the SCM Director and/or the Designee of the Using
Department if they fail to meet Contract requirements. In the event of such rejection, Services shall
be re-performed by the Contractor promptly and at no additional cost to the County., Services shall
be provided in a manner that complies with applicable accreditation standards including, but not
limited to, the Medicare Conditions of Participation and standards of The Joint Commission.
GC-05 INDEMNIFICATION
The Contractor covenants and agrees to indemnify and save harmless the County and its CCHHS,
directors, commissioners, officials, employees, agents and representatives, and their respective
heirs, successors and assigns, from and against any and all costs, expenses, attorneys’ fees, losses,
damages and liabilities incurred or suffered to the extent caused directly and proximately by the
negligence or willful misconduct of Contractor, its officers, agents, employees, contractors,
subcontractors, in the course of performing services hereunder. The Contractor expressly
understands and agrees that any Performance Bond or insurance protection required of the
Contractor, or otherwise provided by the Contractor, shall in no way limit the responsibility
to indemnify the County as herein provided. The County shall give the Contractor prompt notice
of any such claim and County will consult with Contractor in the defense and settlement thereof.
Subject to applicable law, approval of the Cook County State’s Attorney, if required, and at the sole
discretion of the County, the County may assign defense to the Contractor.
GC-06 PAYMENT
Pursuant to the Cook County, Illinois Code of Ordinances Sec. 34-310 and 34-311. Invoices
required for all Service contracts.
(a)
Work Performed. Contractor shall maintain and submit for review upon request by CCHHS,
itemized records indicating the dates that Services were provided, a detailed description of the
work performed on each such date, and the amount of time spent performing work on each such
date.
(b)
Expenses. Contractors shall submit documentation of the types and amounts of expenses incurred
related to the work performed if the Contractor seeks reimbursement for any such expenses
incurred.
(c)
Invoice Documentation. Contractor shall submit itemized records indicating the dates or time
period, in which the Services being invoiced were provided, a detailed description of the work
performed for the time period being invoiced and the amount of time spent performing work for
the time period in question. In addition, all Contracts for services that are procured as Sole Source
must also contain a provision requiring the Contractor to submit itemized records indicating the

Page 5 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

dates that services were provided, a detailed description of the work performed on each such date,
and the amount of time spent performing work on each such date.
(d)
Payment. All Contracts for Services shall further require that the itemized work and expense
records required in Section 34-310(b) and (c) be submitted to the Using Agency with the
Contractor's invoice as a condition of payment for any services rendered.
This paragraph applies to Goods and Services Notwithstanding the foregoing all invoices
submitted by the Contractor shall be in accordance with the cost provisions contained in the
Contracts. All invoices shall have a valid Purchase Order issued by CCHHS prior to invoicing
CCHHS. No payments shall be made if invoices fail to comply with the requirements of this
paragraph. County payment terms shall be Net 45 days from invoice date. Contractor shall not be
entitled to invoice the County for any late fees or other penalties.
GC-07 PREPAID FEES
In the event this Contract is terminated by either party, for cause or otherwise, and the County has
prepaid for any Goods, Services, or Deliverables, Contractor shall refund to the County, on a
prorated basis to the effective date of termination, all amounts prepaid and not actually provided
as of the effective date of the termination. The refund shall be made within fourteen (14) days of
the effective date of termination.
GC-08 TAXES
Federal Excise Tax does not apply to materials purchased by the County by virtue of Exemption
Certificate No. 36-75-0038K. Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax, Use Tax and Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax do not apply to Goods or Services, purchased by the County by virtue of statute.
The price or prices quoted herein shall include all other federal and/or state, direct and/or indirect
taxes which apply to this Contract. The County's State of Illinois Sales Tax Exemption
Identification No. is E-9998-2013-07.
GC-09 PRICE REDUCTION
If at any time after the contract award, Contractor makes a general price reduction in the price of
any of the Goods, Services, or Deliverables the equivalent price reduction based on similar
quantities and/or considerations shall apply to this Contract for the duration of the Contract period.
For purposes of this Section GC-09, Price Reduction, a general price reduction shall include
reductions in the effective price charged by Contractor due to rebates, financial incentives,
discounts, value points or other benefits with respect to the purchase. Such price reductions shall
be effective at the same time and in the same manner as reductions Contractor makes in the price
of the Goods, Services, or Deliverables to its prospective customers generally.
GC-10 CONTRACTOR CREDITS
To the extent the Contractor gives credits toward future purchases of goods or services, financial
incentives, discounts, value points or other benefits based on the purchase of the materials or
services provided for under this Contract, such credits belong to the County and not any specific
Page 6 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

using department. Contractor shall reflect any such credits on its invoices and in the amounts it
invoices the County.
GC-11 DISPUTES
Any dispute arising under the Contract between the County and Contractor shall be resolved by
the SCM Director and Contractor to the extent possible. The parties will use good faith efforts to
resolve a dispute within sixty (60) days following notification received by either party of a dispute.
Notwithstanding a dispute, the parties shall continue to discharge their obligations, duties and
responsibilities set forth in the Contract during any dispute resolution proceeding unless otherwise
agreed to in writing.
Dispute resolution as provided herein shall be a condition precedent to any other action at law or
in equity. However, unless a notice is issued by the SCM Director indicating that additional time
is required to review a dispute and the Contractor is in agreement, the parties may exercise their
contractual remedies. No inference shall be drawn from the absence of a response by the SCM
Director.
GC-12 DEFAULT
Contractor shall be in default hereunder in the event of a material breach by Contractor of any term
or condition of this Contract including, but not limited to, a representation or warranty, where
Contractor has failed to cure such breach within ten (10) days after written notice of breach is
given to Contractor by the County, setting forth the nature of such breach. In the event Contractor
shall breach any material terms or conditions of this Contract on more than one occasion during
any twelve month period during the term hereof, or in the event Contractor expresses an
unwillingness or inability to continue performing the Contract in accordance with its terms, the
County may, at its option, declare the Contractor to be in default and the County shall be entitled
to exercise all available remedies including, but not limited to, termination of the Contract, without
affording the Contractor further opportunity to cure such breach. Failure of County to give written
notice of breach to the Contractor shall not be deemed to be a waiver of the County’s right to assert
such breach at a later time, should the Contractor commit a subsequent breach of this Contract.
County shall be in default hereunder if any material breach of the Contract by County occurs which
is not cured by the County within ninety (90) days after written notice has been given by Contractor
to the County, setting forth the nature of such breach.
GC-13 COUNTY'S REMEDIES
Following notice of material breach to Contractor, the County reserves the right to withhold
payments otherwise owed to Contractor until such time as Contractor has cured the breach. Except
as extended in writing by the SCM Director, if the Contractor fails to remedy a material breach
during the ten (10) day cure period pursuant to General Condition GC-12, Default, or if Contractor
commits a subsequent material breach within a twelve month period or expresses an unwillingness
Page 7 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

or inability to continue performing the Contract in accordance with its terms, the County shall have
the right to terminate this Contract upon written notice to the Contractor which shall set forth the
effective date of such termination. In addition, the County shall have the right to pursue all
remedies in law or equity.
GC-14 CONTRACTOR'S REMEDIES; LIMITATION ON COUNTY LIABILITY
If the County has been notified of breach and fails to remedy the breach during the cure period
pursuant to General Condition GC-12, Default, the Contractor shall have the right to terminate this
Contract upon not less than thirty (30) days prior written notice to the County, which notice shall
set forth the effective date of termination. Contractor shall have the right to pursue all remedies
available in law or equity. Irrespective of the exercise of remedies hereunder, Contractor shall not
disrupt the County’s operations, suspend Services or withhold the delivery of and Deliverable, or
repossess any component thereof. Additionally, Contractor shall not be entitled to suspend the
delivery of any Deliverable or the provision of Services at any time during the term of this Contract
or any renewal options without the express written authorization of the SCM Director or his
designee.
CCHHS shall be not liable for any consequential, exemplary, incidental, indirect, or special
damages or costs including, but not limited to, lost profits or loss of goodwill, resulting from any
claim or cause of action based upon breach of warranty, breach of contract, negligence, strict
liability, or any other legal theory, even if Contractor has been advised, knew, or should have
known of the possibility thereof. The CCHHS’s aggregate liability shall be limited to the
Contractor’s actual provable direct damages not to exceed the amount of the Contract as awarded
by CCHHS Board of Directors, which amount is set forth on the Board Authorization Request
and/or in Part I of this Contract (the “Maximum Contract Amount”) less all amounts paid to
Contractor hereunder shall be limited as set forth in this Section. In no event shall the CCHHS’s
liability be the aggregate amount of multiple contracts.
GC-15 DELAYS
Contractor agrees that no charges or claims for damages shall be made by Contractor for any delays
or hindrances from any cause whatsoever during the progress of any portion of this Contract.
GC-16 MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS
The parties may from time to time during the term of the Contract make modifications and
amendments to the Contract but only as provided in this section. Such modifications and
amendments shall only be made by agreement in writing.
The SCM Director may agree in writing to amend this Contract provided that, such amendment
individually or cumulatively increases the amount payable to Contractor to One Hundred Fifty
Thousand ($150,000) Dollars or more or, in the case of a Contract that was originally approved by
the CCHHS Board, by more than ten percent of the Maximum Contract Amount, such amendment
shall require the approval of the CCHHS Board of Directors. Similarly, amendments which extend
Page 8 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

the term of the Contract by one year or longer shall require the approval of the CCHHS Board of
Directors.
Subject to the foregoing, the Director of the Using Department may, by written order, make
changes with respect to the dates of delivery and places of performance of the Contract. Contractor
is hereby notified that, except for modifications and amendments which are made in accordance
with this Section GC-16, Modifications and Amendments, no County department or employee
thereof has authority to make any modification or amendment to this Contract.
GC-17 PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES; OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
(1)
Furnishing of license rights and authorizations. Unless otherwise provided in this
Contract, Contractor hereby grants to the County a perpetual and irrevocable, non-exclusive, nontransferable, fully paid-up and royalty-free license (or, as applicable with respect to software that
constitutes a third-party product, sublicense) and right to use the software and its Documentation
for the County’s internal business purposes. All licensed software shall be the latest commercially
available release and version thereof as of the execution of this Contract.
(a) Software Manufactured by a Third Party. To the extent certain software provided to
the County hereunder may be licensed by a third-party manufacturer or supplier pursuant to the
express terms of separate, written license agreements. Contractor shall notify the County of the
existence of any such separate license agreements and shall provide each such separate license
agreement to the CCHHS Chief Information Officer (CIO), in writing or electronically, no later
than upon delivery to the County of the respective software to which it applies. Notwithstanding
the terms of any license agreement issued by a third-party manufacturer or supplier, as between
the parties to this Contract, Contractor shall ensure that all software is warranted in in accordance
with the applicable sections of GC-26 Guarantees and Warrantees, and that the County obtains a
perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive, non-transferable, paid-up, and royalty-free license and right
for the County and its users to use the software in accordance with this Contract.
(b) Third-Party Licenses. Contractor shall furnish the CCHHS CIO with all licenses,
license rights or authorization required for the County to utilize any software, including firmware
or middleware, provided by Contractor as part of the Goods or Services (and Deliverables if
applicable). Such licenses shall be clearly marked with a reference to the number of this County
Contract. Contractor shall also furnish a copy of such licenses to the SCM Director. Unless
otherwise stated in these Contract documents, such licenses shall be perpetual and shall not limit
the number of persons who may utilize the software on behalf of the County.
(2)
IP Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify the County, its officers,
agents, employees and affiliates from and defend, at its own expense (including reasonable
attorneys', accountants' and consultants' fees), any suit or proceeding brought against County based
upon a claim that the ownership and/or use of equipment, hardware and software or any part
thereof provided to the County or utilized in performing Contractor's services constitutes an
infringement of any patent, copyright or license or any other property right.

Page 9 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

In the event the use of any equipment, hardware or software or any part thereof is enjoined,
Contractor with all reasonable speed and due diligence shall provide or otherwise secure for
County, at the Contractor's election, one of the following: the right to continue use of the
equipment, hardware or software; an equivalent system having the Specifications as provided in
this Contract; or Contractor shall modify the system or its component parts so that they become
non-infringing while performing in a substantially similar manner to the original system, meeting
the requirements of this Contract.
(3)
Intellectual Property of the County. County reserves all rights, including, but not limited
to, ownership, title, intellectual property rights and all other rights and interest in and to any
computer programs (in object or source code format or any other form), know-how, inventions,
processes, data bases, documentation, training materials, designs, reports, manuals, documents,
specifications, hardware, software and equipment and any other intellectual property and any
tangible embodiments of it (collectively “Intellectual Property” or “IP”) that County makes
available to Contractor (collectively “County IP”). No County IP shall be removed from County’s
premises without the prior written consent of County. All County IP removed with consent shall
be returned upon the earlier of (a) County’s request for its return; or (b) completion or termination
of the Contract or an applicable statement of work thereunder. Contractor shall, at its risk and
expense, maintain such County IP in good condition while it is in its custody or control.
(4)
County Ownership of Delivered Software or Other Proprietary Material. The Parties
may contemplate that the County will order Goods, Services or Deliverables from Contractor that
will result in the transfer of ownership rights of software or other proprietary material from
Contractor to the County or the development by Contractor of such software or proprietary
material for County’s exclusive ownership. In such case, the subject IP and the County’s
ownership rights therein shall be set forth in Exhibit 1, Statement of Work.
(5)
Ownership of Documents and/or Data. All documents, data, studies, reports, work
product or product created as a result of the performance of the Contract shall be included in
Deliverables and shall be the property of the County of Cook. Except as expressly provided in the
Contract, it shall be a breach of this Contract for the Contractor to reproduce or use any documents,
data, studies, reports, work product or product obtained from the County of Cook or any County
Documents created hereby, whether such reproduction or use is for Contractor’s own purposes or
for those of any third party. During the performance of the Contract, Contractor shall be
responsible of any loss or damage to the Documents while they are in Contractor’s possession, and
any such loss or damage shall be restored at the expense of the Contractor. The County and its
designees shall be afforded full access to the County Documents and the work at all times. In the
event the CCHHS requests its data, Contractor will provide it to the CCHHS in a form that meets
an industry-standard format such as, .XLSX, .CSV, .TXT, .MDB,.DAT. The data must
comprehensively represent the record (e.g. all relevant fields) and exactly match the source
information. The data element in a record must clearly separate using appropriate delimiters like
comma, pipe etc., or must be fixed length. The end of line character must appear only at the end
of each record. Embedded line feed and carriage return in data elements must be eliminated or
replaced with appropriate characters.

Page 10 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  
GC-18 CORPORATE COMPLIANCE
A. General. The Contractor and any subcontractors shall observe and comply with any
accreditation standards applicable to Contractor in its regular business as well as the laws,
ordinances, regulations and codes of the Federal, State, County and other local government
agencies which may in any manner affect the performance of the Contract including, but not
limited to, those County Ordinances set forth in the Certifications attached hereto and incorporated
herein. Assurance of compliance with this requirement by the Contractor's employees, agents or
subcontractors shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.
B. Payment of Taxes and Fees. The Contractor shall secure and pay for all federal, state and local
licenses, permits and fees required hereunder.
C. Corporate Compliance Program. Contractor understands that the CCHHS has adopted a
Corporate Compliance Program and is committed to complying with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations. Accordingly, Contractor shall also comply with all laws, rules and regulations
concerning the services or items furnished to CCHHS under this Contract. CCHHS will provide
Contractor with the CCHHS Code of Ethics available at: http://www.cookcountyhhs.org/aboutcchhs/doing-business-with-cchhs/bids-rfp/ and Contractor agrees to fully comply with the CCHHS
Code of Ethics concerning the services or items furnished to CCHHS under this Contract. In
addition, Contractor shall cooperate fully with any review, audit, or investigation conducted by the
CCHHS Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, including the timely return of requested
documentation, and shall bring to the attention of the Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, or
designee, any alleged improper practices or potential violations of CCHHS policies/ procedures
that Contractor may discover in association with this Contract so that the Compliance Officer may
take appropriate action. Assurance of compliance with this requirement by the Contractor's
employees, agents or subcontractors shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.
D. Training. Contractor shall ensure that all Contractor’s employees, agents and subcontractors,
and their respective employees and agents, complete training as necessary to perform the
responsibilities under this contract.
This training shall include the completion of a
Compliance/Code of Ethics training upon hire, and no less frequently than annually thereafter.
CCHHS reserves the right to require Contractor to complete additional trainings utilizing
compliance training materials or training sessions supplied by CCHHS. Assurance of compliance
with this requirement by the Contractor's employees, agents or subcontractors shall be the
responsibility of the Contractor.
E. Debarment and Suspension Certification. As used in this paragraph c, the term "Principal"
shall have the meaning set forth in 45 C.F.R. § 76.995 and shall include an officer, director; owner,
partner, principal investigator, or other person having management or supervisory responsibilities
related to a covered transaction. "Principal" also includes a consultant or other person, whether or
not employed by the participant or paid with Federal funds, who: is in a position to handle Federal
funds; is in a position to influence or control the use of those funds; or occupies a technical or
professional position capable of substantially influencing the development or outcome of an
activity required to perform the covered transaction.

Page 11 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

Other terms used in this paragraph E, such as covered transaction, debarred, excluded, exclusion,
ineligible, ineligibility, participant, and person have the meanings set forth in the definitions and
coverage rules of 45 C.F.R. Part 76 and other applicable federal regulations.
In executing this Contract, each of Contractor's authorized signatories certifies that, to his or her
knowledge and belief, based on reasonable diligence, the Contractor, its principals and any person
employed or contracted by Contractor to provide Services:
(1) Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible or
voluntarily excluded from covered transactions by any governmental department, agency or
federally funded health care program (including Medicare and/or Medicaid)
(2) Have not, within a 3-year period preceding this proposal, been convicted of or had a civil
judgment rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with
obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) transaction or
contract under a public transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission
of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false
statements, or receiving stolen property.
(3) Are not presently indicted or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity
(Federal, State, or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (b) of
this certification.
(4) Have not, within a 3-year period preceding this application/proposal, had one or more public
transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated for cause or default.
Contractor shall screen all current and prospective employees, contractors and subcontractors prior
to engaging their services, and at least monthly thereafter, by reviewing the list of sanctioned
Persons through
 the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Inspector General (OIG) List
of Excluded Individuals/Entities (LEIE) Searchable Database (https://exclusions.oig.hhs.gov),
 HFS OIG exclusion (available at http://www.state.il.us/agency/oig),
 the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)/System of Award Management (SAM) maintained
by the U.S. Government (available at https://www.sam.gov/portal/SAM/##11), and
 the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) Specially Designated Nationals (SDN)
(https://sanctionssearch.ofac.treas.gov/)
Contractor shall notify CCHHS immediately in the event that it or anyone performing services
under this Contract:
(1) is convicted of a criminal offense related to health care and/or related to the provision of
services paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or another federal health care program; or
(2) is excluded or debarred from participation in any federal health care program, including
Medicare and Medicaid. CCHHS may terminate this Contract immediately upon the occurrence

Page 12 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  
or notification of any of the above and such termination shall be the CCHHS’ sole remedy against
Contractor.
GC-19 MINORITY AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISES - COOK COUNTY
ORDINANCE CHAPTER 34, DIVISION 8
I.
A.

POLICY AND GOALS

It is the policy of the County of Cook to prevent discrimination in the award of or participation in
County Contracts and to eliminate arbitrary barriers for participation in such Contracts by local
businesses certified as a Minority Business Enterprise (MBE) and Women-owned Business
Enterprise (WBE) as both prime and sub-contractors. In furtherance of this policy, the Cook
County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise
Ordinance (the "Ordinance") which establishes annual goals for MBE and WBE participation as
outlined below:
Contract Type
Goods and Services
Construction
Professional Services

Goals
MBE
WBE
25%
10%
24%
10%
35% Overall

B. The County may set contract-specific goals, based on the availability of MBEs and WBEs
that are certified to provide commodities or services specified in this solicitation document.
The MBE/WBE participation goals for each Contract are stated in the Special Conditions.
A Bid, Quotation, or Proposal shall be rejected if the County determines that it fails to comply
with this General Condition in any way, including but not limited to: (i) failing to state an
enforceable commitment to achieve for this contract the identified MBE/WBE Contract goals; or
(ii) failing to include a Petition for Reduction/Waiver, which states that the goals for MBE/WBE
participation are not attainable despite the Bidder or Proposer Good Faith Efforts, and explains
why. If a Bid, Quotation, or Proposal is rejected, then a new Bid, Quotation, or Proposal may be
solicited if the public interest is served thereby. The Office of Contract Compliance has
determined that the participation for this specific contract is XXXX MBE % participation
and XXX WBE % participation.
C.
To the extent that a Bid, Quotation, or Proposal includes a Petition for Reduction/Waiver that is
approved by the Office of Contract Compliance, the Contract specific MBE and WBE participation
goals may be achieved by the proposed Bidder or Proposer’s status as an MBE or WBE; by the
Bidder or Proposer’s enforceable joint-venture agreement with one or more MBEs and/or WBEs;
by the Bidder or Proposer entering into one or more enforceable subcontracting agreements with
one or more MBE and WBE; by the Bidder or Proposer establishing and carrying out an
enforceable mentor/protégé agreement with one or more MBE and WBE; by the Bidder or
Proposer actively engaging the Indirect Participation of one or more MBE and WBE in other
aspects of its business; or by any combination of the foregoing, so long as the Utilization Plan
evidences a commitment to meet the MBE and WBE Contract goals set forth in (B) above, as
approved by the Office of Contract Compliance.
Page 13 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

D.

A single Person, as defined in the Procurement Code, may not be utilized as both an MBE and a
WBE on the same Contract, whether as a contractor, subcontractor or supplier.

E.

Unless specifically waived in the Bid or Proposal Documents, this General Condition, GC-19; the
Ordinance; and the policies and procedures promulgated thereunder shall govern. If there is a
conflict between this GC-19 and the Ordinance or the policies and procedures, the Ordinance shall
control.

F.

A Contractor’s failure to carry out its commitment regarding MBE and WBE participation in the
course of the Contract’s performance may constitute a material breach of the Contract. If such
breach is not appropriately cured, it may result in withholding of payments under the Contract,
contractual penalties, disqualification and any other remedy provided for in Division 4 of the
Procurement Code at law or in equity.
II.

REQUIRED BID OR PROPOSAL SUBMITTALS

A Bidder or Proposer shall document its commitment to meeting the Contract specific MBE and
WBE participation goals by submitting a Utilization Plan with the Bid or Proposal. The Utilization
Plan shall include (1) one or more Letter(s) of Intent from the relevant MBE and WBE firms; and
(2) current Letters of Certification as an MBE or WBE. Alternatively, the Bidder or Proposer shall
submit (1) a written Petition for Reduction/Waiver with the Bid, Quotation or Proposal, which
documents its preceding Good Faith Efforts and an explanation of its inability to meet the goals
for MBE and WBE participation. The Utilization Plan shall be submitted at the time that the bid
or proposal is due. Failure to include a Utilization Plan will render the submission not
Responsive and shall be cause for the SCM Director to reject the Bid or Proposal.
A.

MBE/WBE Utilization Plan

Each Bid or Proposal shall include a complete Utilization Plan, as set forth on Form 1 of the
M/WBE Compliance Forms. The Utilization Plan shall include the name(s), mailing address, email
address, and telephone number of the principal contact person of the relevant MBE and WBE
firms. If the Bidder or Proposer submits a Bid or Proposal, and any of their subcontractors,
suppliers or consultants, are certified MBE or WBE firms, they shall be identified as an MBE or
WBE within the Utilization Plan.
1.

Letter(s) of Intent

Except as set forth below, a Bid or Proposal shall include, as part of the Utilization Plan, one or
more Letter(s) of Intent, as set forth on Form 2 of the M/WBE Compliance Forms, executed by
each MBE and WBE and the Bidder or Proposer. The Letter(s) of Intent will be used to confirm
that each MBE and WBE shall perform work as a subcontractor, supplier, joint venture, or
consultant on the Contract. Each Letter of Intent shall indicate whether and the degree to which
the MBE or WBE will provide goods or services directly or indirectly during the term of the
Contract. The box for direct participation shall be marked if the proposed MBE or WBE will
provide goods or services directly related to the scope of the Contract. The box for Indirect
Page 14 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

participation shall be marked if the proposed MBE or WBE will not be directly involved in the
Contract but will be utilized by the Bidder or Proposer for other services not related to the Contract.
Indirect Participation shall not be counted toward the participation goal. Each Letter of Intent shall
accurately detail the work to be performed by the relevant MBE or WBE firm, the agreed dollar
amount, the percentage of work, and the terms of payment.
Failure to include Letter(s) of Intent will render the submission not Responsive and shall be
cause for the SCM Director to reject the Bid or Proposal.
All Bids and Proposals must conform to the commitments made in the corresponding Letter(s) of
Intent, as may be amended through change orders.
The Contract Compliance Director may at any time request supplemental information regarding
Letter(s) of Intent, and such information shall be furnished if the corresponding Bid or Proposal is
to be deemed responsive.
2.

Letter(s) of Certification

Only current Letter(s) of Certification from one of the following entities may be accepted as proof
of certification for MBE/WBE status, provided that Cook County’s requirements for certification
are met:
 County of Cook
 City of Chicago
Persons that are currently certified by the City of Chicago in any area other than
Construction/Public Works shall also complete and submit a MBE/WBE Reciprocal Certification
Affidavit along with a current letter of certification from the City of Chicago. This Affidavit form
can be downloaded from www.cookcountyil.gov/contractcompliance.
The Contract Compliance Director may reject the certification of any MBE or WBE on the ground
that it does not meet the requirements of the Ordinance, or the policies and rules promulgated
thereunder.

3.
Joint Venture Affidavit
In the event a Bid or Proposal achieves MBE and/or WBE participation through a Joint Venture,
the Bid or Proposal shall include the required Joint Venture Affidavit, which can be downloaded
from www.cookcountyil.gov/contractcompliance. The Joint Venture Affidavit shall be submitted
with the Bid or Proposal, along with current Letter(s) of Certification.
B.

Petition for Reduction/Waiver

In the event a Bid or Proposal does not meet the Contract specific goals for MBE and WBE
participation, the Bid or Proposal shall include a Petition for Reduction/Waiver, as set forth on
Form 3. The Petition for Reduction/Waiver shall be supported by sufficient evidence and
documentation to demonstrate the Bidder or Proposer’s Good Faith Efforts in attempting to
Page 15 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

achieve the applicable MBE and WBE goals, and its inability to do so despite its Good Faith
Efforts.
Failure to include Petition for Reduction/Waiver will render the submission not Responsive
and shall be cause for the SCM Director to reject the Bid or Proposal.
III.

REDUCTION/WAIVER OF MBE/WBE GOALS

A.

Granting or Denying a Reduction/Waiver Request.

1.

The adequacy of the Good Faith Efforts to utilize MBE and WBE firms in a Bid or Proposal will
be evaluated by the CCD under such conditions as are set forth in the Ordinance, the policies and
rules promulgated thereunder, and in the “Petition for Reduction/Waiver of MBE/WBE
Participation Goals” – Form 3 of the M/WBE Compliance Forms.

2.

With respect to a Petition for Reduction/Waiver, the sufficiency or insufficiency of a Bidder or
Proposer’s Good Faith Efforts shall be evaluated by the CCD as of the date upon which the
corresponding Bid or Proposal was due.

3.

The Contract Compliance Director or his or her duly authorized Waiver Committee may grant or
deny the Petition for Reduction/Waiver based upon factors including but not limited to: (a)
whether sufficient qualified MBE and WBE firms are unavailable despite good faith efforts on the
part of the Bidder or Proposer; (b) the degree to which specifications and the reasonable and
necessary requirements for performing the Contract make it impossible or economically infeasible
to divide the Contract into sufficiently small tasks or quantities so as to enable the Bidder or
Proposer to utilize MBE and WBE firms in accordance with the applicable goals; (c) the degree to
which the prices or prices required by any potential MBE or WBE are more that 10% above
competitive levels; and (d) such other factors as are determined relevant by the Contract
Compliance Director or the duly authorized Waiver Committee.

4.

If the Contract Compliance Director or the duly authorized Waiver Committee determines that the
Bidder or Proposer has not demonstrated sufficient Good Faith Efforts to meet the applicable MBE
and WBE goals, the Contract Compliance Director or the duly authorized Waiver Committee may
deny a Petition for Reduction/Waiver, declare the Bid or Proposal non-responsive, and recommend
rejection of the Bid, Quotation, or Proposal.
IV.

CHANGES IN CONTRACTOR'S UTILIZATION PLAN

A.

A Contractor, during its performance of the Contract, may not change the original MBE or WBE
commitments specified in the relevant Utilization Plan, including but not limited to, terminating a
MBE or WBE Contract, reducing the scope of the work to be performed by a MBE/WBE, or
decreasing the price to a MBE/WBE, except as otherwise provided by the Ordinance and according
to the policies and procedures promulgated thereunder.

B.

Where a Person listed under the Contract was previously considered to be a MBE or WBE but is
later found not to be, or work is found not to be creditable toward the MBE or WBE goals as stated
Page 16 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

in the Utilization Plan, the Contractor shall seek to discharge the disqualified enterprise, upon
proper written notification to the Contract Compliance Director, and make every effort to identify
and engage a qualified MBE or WBE as its replacement. Failure to obtain an MBE or WBE
replacement within 30 business days of the Contract Compliance Director's written approval of
the removal of a purported MBE or WBE may result in the termination of the Contract or the
imposition of such remedy authorized by the Ordinance, unless a written Petition for
Reduction/Waiver is granted allowing the Contractor to award the work to a Person that is not
certified as an MBE or WBE.
V.

NON-COMPLIANCE

If the CCD determines that the Contractor has failed to comply with its contractual commitments
or any portion of the Ordinance, the policies and procedures promulgated thereunder, or this GC19, the Contract Compliance Director shall notify the Contractor of such determination and may
take any and all appropriate actions as set forth in the Ordinance or the policies and procedures
promulgated thereunder which includes but is not limited to disqualification, penalties,
withholding of payments or other remedies in law or equity.
VI.

REPORTING/RECORD-KEEPING REQUIREMENTS

The Contractor shall comply with the reporting and record-keeping requirements in the manner
and time established by the Ordinance, the policies and procedure promulgated thereunder, and
the Contract Compliance Director. Failure to comply with such reporting and record-keeping
requirements may result in a declaration of Contract default. Upon award of a Contract, a
Contractor shall acquire and utilize all Cook County reporting and record-keeping forms and
methods which are made available by the Office of Contract Compliance. MBE and WBE firms
shall be required to verify payments made by and received from the prime contractor.
VII.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

Compliance with MBE and WBE requirements will not diminish or supplant other legal Equal
Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights requirements that relate to contractor and subcontractor
obligations.
Any questions regarding this section should be directed to:
Contract Compliance Director
Cook County
118 North Clark Street, Room 1020
Chicago, Illinois 60602
(312) 603-5502

Page 17 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  
GC-20 MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET
Where required under the Illinois “Toxic Substance Disclosure To Employees Act”, Illinois
Compiled Statutes, 2002, 820 ILCS 255/1, Contractor shall submit with each delivery of Goods or
Services, a Material Safety Data Sheet.
GC-21 CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR
The Contractor agrees to inform the County on a timely basis of all the Contractor’s interests, if
any, which are or which the Contractor reasonably believes may be incompatible with any interest
of the County. In the event a significant conflict of interest is identified during the engagement,
the parties shall endeavor to reach a mutually agreeable plan regarding a resolution of the conflict
to avoid an adverse consequence to the County, or shall modify or terminate the scope of services
affected thereby. The Contractor shall take notice of and comply with the Cook County Lobbyist
Registration Ordinance (No. 93-0-22, 6-22-93). Neither the Contractor nor any of its employees,
agents or subcontractors shall use for business or personal gain, or make other improper use of,
confidential information which is acquired in connection with the Contract.
GC-22 ACCIDENT REPORTS
Contractor shall provide the SCM Director and the Director of the Using Department with prompt
written notification of any occurrence, on County premises or otherwise, which pertains in any
way to this Contract and which results in either bodily injury to employees or third parties or
property damage. Contractor shall provide the SCM Director or his/her designee with verbal notice
within twenty-four (24) hours of any occurrence, on County premises or otherwise, which pertains
in any way to this Contract and which results in either bodily injury to employees or third parties
or property damage. Within three (3) business days following any such occurrence, Contractor
shall provide SCM Director of CCHHS with prompt written notification (no later than three (3)
business days) of any occurrence, on County premises or otherwise, which pertains in any way to
this Contract and which results in either bodily injury to employees or third parties or property
damage. The report shall include the name of person(s) injured, if any; name of the injured person’s
employer, if any; the date, time and location of the occurrence; description of the extent of injury
and/or damage; the name(s) of witnesses; the names of any providers known to have provided
treatment for injuries sustained; and such other information as may be required by the County. The
Contractor shall notify the local police regarding any occurrence requiring an official police
record.
The report submitted to the County should indicate whether the police were notified and, if so, the
number of the police report. The report shall include the name of person(s) injured, if any; name
of the injured person’s employer, if any; the date, time and location of the occurrence;
description of the extent of injury and/or damage; the name(s) of witnesses; the names of any
providers known to have provided treatment for injuries sustained; and such other information
as may be required by the County. The Contractor shall notify the local police regarding any
occurrence requiring an official police record. The report submitted to the County should indicate
whether the police were notified and, if so, the number of the police report.

Page 18 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  
GC-23 CONTRACTOR ON-SITE REQUIREMENTS
The County reserves the right to prohibit any person from entering any County facility for any
reason. All contractors and subcontractors of the Contractor shall be accountable to the Director
of the Using Department or his/her designee while on any County property and shall abide by all
rules and regulations imposed by the County and CCHHS Policies applicable to the scope of this
Contract including but not limited the policy requiring use of CCHHS’ vendor credentialing and
financial systems.
Contractor shall confer with the SCM Director and/or Director of the Using Department(s) to
ascertain full knowledge of all rules and regulations of the County facilities relative to this Contract
and shall cause all of its employees, agents and subcontractors to comply therewith. The
Contractor shall confine the operations of its employees, agents and subcontractors on County
premises to the performance of the Contract consistent with limits indicated by laws, ordinances,
permits and/or direction of the Director of the Using Department and shall not encumber the
premises with materials or debris. In performing the Contract, the Contractor shall not cause or
permit a condition that endangers the safety of others and shall not load or permit any part of a
structure to be loaded with a weight that will endanger the safety of the structure or any persons.
When required, Contractor shall provide documentation that all personnel assigned to provide
services on-site at a CCHHS facility shall have had a fingerprint based background check, drug
and TB tests, and designated immunizations/vaccinations. The costs of all such checks, tests and
immunizations/vaccinations shall be borne by Contractor.
GC-24 TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT
The County may terminate this Contract, or any portion, at any time by notice in writing from the
County to the Contractor. Unless otherwise stated in the notice, the effective date of such
termination shall be three business days after the date the notice of termination is mailed by the
County. If the County elects to terminate the Contract in full, unless otherwise specified in the
notice of termination, the Contractor shall immediately cease performance and shall promptly
tender to the County all Deliverables, whether completed or in process. If the County elects to
terminate the Contract in part, unless otherwise specified in the notice of partial termination, the
Contractor shall immediately cease performance of those portions of the Contract which are
terminated and shall promptly tender to the County all Deliverables relating to said portions of the
Contract, whether completed or in process. Contractor shall refrain from incurring any further
costs with respect to portions of the Contract which are terminated except as specifically approved
by the SCM Director.
Pursuant to Cook County Ordinance 38-85 (c), if this Contract is a multi-year contract, the
following provision applies: This Contract is subject to County Board approval of appropriations
for the purpose of the subject contract; and that in the event funds are not appropriated by the
County Board, or there is a change in services which results in the elimination of the Services
which are the subject of the Contract, the Contract shall be cancelled without penalty to, or further
payment being required by, the System Board or the County. The System Board shall give the
vendor notice of failure of funding or change in services as soon as practicable after the System
Page 19 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

Board becomes aware of the failure of funding. The System Board's or County's obligation to
perform shall cease immediately upon receipt of notice to the vendor of lack of appropriated funds;
and that the System Board's or County's obligation under the contract shall also be subject to
immediate termination or cancellation at any time when there are not sufficient authorized funds
lawfully available to the System Board to meet such obligation.
GC-25 GENERAL NOTICE
All notices required pursuant to this Contract shall be in writing and addressed to the parties at
their respective addresses set forth below. All such notices shall be deemed duly given if hand
delivered or if deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, registered or certified, return
receipt requested. Notice as provided herein does not waive service of summons or process.
TO THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM:
DIRECTOR OF SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT
1901 West Harrison, Ste. 5360
Chicago, Illinois 60612
(Include County Contract Number in all notices)
TO THE CONTRACTOR:
At address provided on the Execution Pages or as otherwise indicated in writing to County
Purchasing Agent in a written document which, in bold face type, references the name of the
Contractor, the County Contract Number and states “NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN
ADDRESS.”
GC-26 GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES
The Contractor shall furnish all guarantees and warranties applicable to the Goods and Services to
the SCM Director or designee prior to or at the time of delivery. All warrantees shall be the same
or more favorable commercial warranties and guarantees the Contractor gives to any customer for
the same or substantially similar Goods, and Services. The rights and remedies so provided shall
be in addition to and shall not limit any rights afforded to County under this Contract. To the extent
applicable:
(1)
General Service Warrantees. Contractor shall performed in a professional and
workmanlike manner, and that the Goods and Deliverables, provided by Contractor to CCHHS
will conform to specifications in the Contract The Services shall be performed in accordance with
the recognized professional standards and practices in the industry, and Contractor’s Personnel,
subcontractor(s) and any other person(s) employed or engaged by Contractor in connection with
this Contract shall have the requisite ability, expertise, knowledge and skill, as appropriate to the
duties assigned, to perform the Services shall act in accordance with such professional standards
and industry practices, and in accordance with all applicable milestones and deadlines. Contractor
shall promptly re-perform, at no additional charge to County, any Services that fail to satisfy the
foregoing warranty.

Page 20 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

(2)
Maintenance and/or Support Services. Contractor warrants that during all time periods
in which Contractor is providing maintenance and/or support Services to the County with respect
to individual Goods and/or Goods that have been configured into an integrated whole, Contractor
shall maintain the Goods and all component elements thereof, in good operating condition and in
accordance with any applicable County-approved acceptance testing criteria, specifications and
Documentation, and the other applicable requirements of this Contract. Contractor warrants that
it shall dedicate a sufficient number of qualified personnel and equipment at all times to ensure
that repairs or preventive maintenance shall be accomplished within twenty-four (24) hours after
a problem is first reported to Contractor.
The County shall be entitled to receive any new versions or updates of software as Contractor
makes them commercially available to its other customers. For the avoidance of doubt, a “new
version or update” is a change in software that typically provides operational performance
corrections. At minimum, Contractor will provide maintenance and/or support Services for the
current release of the software and the prior release.
Goods that are supplied by or through Contractor pursuant to this Contract, including third party
products, shall be new, originally manufactured Goods. In addition, experimental Goods will not
be acceptable. Goods not produced by regular production methods and/or which have not been
offered for sale to the public through accepted industry trade channels for a reasonable period prior
to the commencement of the Contract will be considered experimental.
Contractor shall not make changes to Goods or modify the specifications and documentation
relating thereto except upon the express written consent of the Cook County Chief Information
Officer or his or her designee
Replacement Goods, or components thereof, provided as part of maintenance and/or support
services may be: (1) new; or (2) factory reconditioned, refurbished, re-manufactured, provided
that, such reconditioned, refurbished, re-manufactured replacement Goods or components are
functionally equivalent to new, including, but not limited to, having materially the same
performance and life expectancy as new.
(3)
Manufacturers’ Warranties. Contractor warrants that all Services shall be performed in
such a manner so as not to void or otherwise limit any applicable manufacturer’s or supplier’s
warranties or maintenance obligations with regard to any of the Goods installed at any County
facilities. If any such manufacturer’s or supplier’s warranties or maintenance obligations are so
voided or limited as a result of work being performed by Contractor hereunder, Contractor shall
be responsible for servicing or, if necessary, replacing the applicable Good at no cost to the County,
throughout what would have been the remaining warranty or maintenance period, notwithstanding
any termination or expiration of this Contract.
(4)
Goods. All Goods provided hereunder, and all portions and components thereof, shall be
free of material or frequent defects, shall be fully compatible with each other and shall operate,
both on a component-by-component basis and as an integrated whole, in all material respects in
conformance with the specifications set forth in this Contract, including any County-approved
acceptance testing criteria and documentation. Contractor shall promptly repair or replace any
Page 21 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

Good or any portion thereof containing any such defect or that fails to so conform, and all such
cures shall be at no additional charge to County.
Contractor represents that, as of the installation by Contractor, the Goods and Software shall not
contain any virus, timer, clock, counter, time bomb, or other instruction, routine, or harmful code
designed to erase data or programming or to cause them to become inoperable or otherwise
incapable of being used in the full manner for which designed and created. Contractor further
warrants and covenants that all Goods that constitute Software shall be compatible with current
major commercially available virus protection programs.
Goods that are supplied by or through Contractor pursuant to this Contract, including third party
products, shall be new, originally manufactured Goods, and Contractor shall not make changes to
Goods or modify the specifications and documentation relating thereto except upon the express
written consent of the CCHHS CIO or his or her designee.
(5)
Third Party Goods. Contractor hereby assigns to the County all warranties, indemnities,
and other commitments that Contractor has obtained or shall obtain from any third-party
manufacturers and suppliers of, and which are otherwise applicable to, any Goods purchased or
licensed by the County from or through Contractor hereunder, to the fullest extent that the
foregoing may be so assigned. Contractor warrants that it shall enforce on the County’s behalf
any such warranties, indemnities, and other commitments, to the extent that they cannot be so
assigned, as necessary or appropriate at any time during which such warranties, indemnities and
other protections are in effect. Contractor further warrants and covenants that it shall, at all such
times, work with and coordinate the efforts of such manufacturers and suppliers to ensure that the
County promptly obtains any required warranty or other service.
GC-27 STANDARD OF GOODS
Except as may be expressly stated in this Contract, only new, originally manufactured Goods will
be provided and no refurbished, rebuilt, restored or renovated Goods shall be acceptable. In
addition, experimental materials are not acceptable. Goods not produced by regular production
methods and/or which have not been offered for sale to the public through accepted industry trade
channels for a reasonable period of time prior to the commencement of the Contract will be
considered experimental.
GC-28 DELIVERY
All Contract Goods shipped to the County shall be shipped F.O.B., DESTINATION, FREIGHT
PREPAID AND ALLOWED. Arrangements shall be made in advance by the Contractor in order
that the County may arrange for receipt of the materials. Unless expressly provided in the Contract,
truck deliveries will be accepted before 3:00 P.M. on weekdays only. No deliveries will be
accepted on Saturdays, Sundays or County Holidays. The County is not responsible for delivery
delays due to waiting times for loading and unloading at dock locations. The County reserves the
right to add new delivery locations or delete previously listed delivery locations as required during
the Contract period. The only restriction regarding the County’s right to add new delivery locations
Page 22 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

shall be that any new or additional location shall be within the geographical boundaries of the
County of Cook.
GC-29 QUANTITIES
Any quantities of Goods set forth in the Contract are estimates for the purpose of determining an
approximate total Contract amount and may not be the actual quantities required by the County
during the term of the Contract. The County reserves the right to increase or decrease such
quantities at Contract pricing to correspond to the actual needs of the County. If the County
increases the quantities required, any such increase shall be subject to an agreed written
amendment in the Contract Amount. The County will be obligated to order and pay for only such
quantities as are from time to time ordered, delivered, and accepted on purchase orders issued by
the SCM Director.
GC-30 CONTRACT INTERPRETATION
Whenever the singular is used herein, the masculine, feminine and neuter gender shall be deemed
to include the others. The headings of articles, paragraphs and sections in this Contract are included
for convenience only and shall not be considered by either party in construing the meaning of this
Contract. If any provision or clause of this Contract shall be held to be invalid, such provision or
clause shall be deleted from the Contract and the Contract shall be construed to give effect to the
remaining portions thereof.
Unless otherwise stated in Part I of this Contract, this Contract shall be interpreted and construed
based upon the following order of precedence of component parts. Such order of precedence shall
govern to resolve all cases of conflict, ambiguity or inconsistency:
Exhibit 2.) Part I, Contract; Exhibit 3.) Part II, General Conditions; Exhibit 4.) Statement of Work;
Exhibit 5.) Evidence of Insurance; Exhibit 6.) Economic Disclosure Statements including
Certifications and Execution Forms; Exhibit 1.) CCHHS Board Transmittal.

GC-31 CONFIDENTIALITY
(1)
Confidentiality. Contractor acknowledges and agrees that information regarding this
Contract is confidential and shall not be disclosed, directly, indirectly or by implication, or be used
by Contractor in any way, whether during the term of this Contract or at any time thereafter, except
solely as required in the course of Contractor’s performance hereunder. Contractor shall comply
with the applicable privacy laws and regulations affecting County and will not disclose any of
County’s records, materials, or other data to any third party. Contractor shall not have the right to
compile and distribute statistical analyses and reports utilizing data derived from information or
data obtained from County’s CCHHS without the prior written approval of the CCHHS CEO. In
the event such approval is given, any such reports published and distributed by Contractor shall be
furnished to County without charge. Additionally, Contractor shall not use the name or mark of
the County or CCHHS for an advertising, marketing and/or endorsement or engage in any media
outreach in any form whatsoever with regard to or arising from this Contract without the prior
Page 23 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

approval of the CCHHS, Executive Director of Communications or designee. Any such breach of
this provision shall be cause for immediate termination of the Contract or other applicable
remedies without the opportunity to cure.
(2)
Freedom of Information Act. Contractor understands that the County as a public body is
required to comply with the Illinois Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) [5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.,
FOIA. Therefore, CCHHS shall have the right to determine whether it will or will not withhold
information upon receipt of a FOIA request. However, Contractor may reasonably designate in
writing certain information as Confidential Information as provided herein. If Contractor makes
such a reasonable designation, CCHHS will use its best efforts to notify Contractor and provide
an opportunity to assert the information as exempt from copying and inspection under Section
7(1)(b) or (g) of the Illinois Freedom of Information Act. CCHHS may require Contractor to
submit justification for asserting the exemption. To the extent that the County is assessed for
attorneys’ fees and/ or court costs as a result of assisting Contractor in asserting an exemption from
disclosure, Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the County from and against such
expenses. Additionally, CCHHS may honor a properly executed criminal or civil subpoena for
such documents without such being deemed a breach of this Contract including any language
contained in any applicable Contract Exhibit or any subsequent amendment hereto. Contractor
acknowledges that information regarding this Contract may be discussed in public meetings and
be disclosed in public documents as a result.
GC-32 AUDIT; EXAMINATION OF RECORDS
Upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours, the Contractor agrees that the Cook
County Auditor or any of its duly authorized representatives shall, until expiration of three (3)
years after the final payment under the Contract, have access and the right to examine any books,
documents, papers, canceled checks, bank statements, purveyor’s and other invoices, and records
of the Contractor related to the Contract, or to Contractor’s compliance with any term, condition
or provision thereof. The Contractor shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining records
sufficient to document the costs associated with performance under the terms of this Contract.
The Contractor further agrees that it shall include in all of its subcontracts hereunder a provision
to the effect that the subcontractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor or any of its duly
authorized representatives shall, until expiration of three (3) years after final payment under the
subcontract, have access and the right to examine any books, documents, papers, canceled checks,
bank statements, purveyor’s and other invoices and records of such subcontractor involving
transactions relating to the subcontract, or to such subcontractor’s compliance with any term,
condition or provision thereunder or under the Contract.
In the event the Contractor receives payment under the Contract, reimbursement for which is later
disallowed by the County, the Contractor shall promptly refund the disallowed amount to the
County on request, or at the County’s option, the County may credit the amount disallowed from
the next payment due or to become due to the Contractor under any contract with the County.
To the extent this Contract pertains to Goods or Services which may be reimbursable under the
Medicaid or Medicare Programs, Contractor shall retain and make available upon request, for a
Page 24 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

period of four (4) years after furnishing services pursuant to this Contract, the contract, books,
documents and records which are necessary to certify the nature and extent of the costs of such
services if requested by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller General
of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives. If Contractor carries out any
of its duties under the Contract through a subcontract with a related organization involving a value
of cost of $10,000.00 or more over a 12 month period, Contractor will cause such subcontract to
contain a clause to the effect that, until the expiration of four years after the furnishing of any
service pursuant to said subcontract, the related organization will make available upon request of
the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller General of the United States or
any of their duly authorized representatives, copies of said subcontract and any books, documents,
records and other data of said related organization that are necessary to certify the nature and extent
of such costs. This paragraph relating to the retention and production of documents is included
because of possible application of Section 1861(v) (1) (I) of the Social Security Act to this
Contract; if this Section should be found to be inapplicable, then this paragraph shall be deemed
inoperative and without force and effect.
GC-33 GOVERNING LAW
This Contract shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Illinois. The
Contractor irrevocably agrees that, subject to the County’s sole and absolute election to the
contrary, any action or proceeding in any way, manner or respect arising out of the Contract, or
arising from any dispute or controversy arising in connection with or related to the Contract, shall
be litigated only in courts within the Circuit Court of Cook County in the City of Chicago, County
of Cook, State of Illinois, and the Contractor consents and submits to the jurisdiction thereof. In
accordance with these provisions, Contractor waives any right it may have to transfer or change
the venue of any litigation brought against it by the County pursuant to this Contract.
GC-34 WAIVER
No term or provision of this Contract shall be deemed waived and no breach consented to unless
such waiver or consent shall be in writing and signed by the party claimed to have waived or
consented. The waiver of any such provision shall be strictly limited to the identified provision.
GC-35 ENTIRE CONTRACT
It is expressly agreed that the provisions set forth in this Contract constitute all the understandings
and agreements between the parties. Any prior agreements, promises, negotiations, or
representations not expressly set forth in this Contract are of no force and effect.
GC-36 FORCE MAJEURE OR UNAVOIDABLE DELAYS
Neither Contractor nor County shall be liable for failing to fulfill any obligation under this Contract
if such failure is caused by an event beyond such party’s reasonable control which is not caused
by such party’s fault or negligence. Such events shall be limited to acts of God, acts of war, fires,
lightning, floods, epidemics, or riots, any national or regional emergency, complete or partial
government shutdown, or national or regional shortage of adequate power or telecommunications
or transportation.
Page 25 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

GC-37 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS; NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES
The Contractor and its employees, agents and subcontractors are, for all purposes arising out of
the Contract, independent contractors and not employees of the County. It is expressly understood
and agreed that neither the Contractor nor Contractor’s employees, agents or subcontractors shall
be entitled to any benefit to which County employees may be entitled including, but not limited
to, overtime or unemployment compensation, insurance or retirement benefits, workers’
compensation or occupational disease benefits or other compensation or leave arrangements.
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed or construed by the parties hereto, or by any third party,
as creating the relationship or principal and agent or of partnership or of a joint venturer or any
relationship between the parties hereto other than that of independent contractors. Nothing herein
shall be construed to confer upon any third parties the status of third party beneficiary.
GC-38 COOPERATION WITH INSPECTOR GENERAL
Persons or businesses seeking County contracts are required to abide by all of the applicable
provisions of the Office of the Independent Inspector General Ordinance (Section 2-281 et seq. of
the Cook County Code of Ordinances). Failure to cooperate as required may result in monetary
and/or other penalties. Contractors, subcontractors, licensees, grantees or persons or businesses
who have a County contract, grant, license, or certification of eligibility for County contracts shall
abide by all of the applicable provisions of the Office of the Independent Inspector General
Ordinance. Failure to cooperate as required may result in monetary and/or other penalties.
GC-39 BUSINESS ASSOCIATE PROVISIONS
This Section shall apply to the extent that Contractor (“Business Associate”), in performing the
Contract, has access to Protected Health Information (“PHI”) from or on behalf of the CCHHS
(“Covered Entity”).
Business Associate may have access to Protected Health Information ("PHI") from or on behalf of
Covered Entity. To the extent applicable, the Parties desire to meet their respective obligations
under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (the "Act").
The HIPAA Rules shall mean the Privacy, Security, Breach Notification, and Enforcement Rules
codified in the Code of Federal Regulations ("C.F.R.") at 45 C.F.R. parts 160 and 164, Pub. Law
No. 104-191 (collectively, "HIPAA") and the Health Information Technology for Economic and
Clinical Health Act provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Pub.
Law No. 111-5 and its implementing regulations (collectively, "HITECH").
Business Associate agrees that as of the effective date this Contract it shall abide by the provisions
of this Contract with respect to any Protected Health Information or Electronic Protected Health
Information (as defined below).

Page 26 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

1.

DEFINITIONS

Terms used, but not otherwise defined, in this Contract shall have the same meaning as those terms
in the Privacy Rule, Security Rule, Breach Notification Rule, and Enforcement Rule.
(a).

Breach. "Breach" shall mean the unauthorized acquisition, access, use, or disclosure of Protected
Health Information which compromises the security or privacy of such information subject to the
exceptions set forth in 45 C.F.R. 164.402.

(b).

Business Associate. “Business Associate” shall generally have the same meaning as the term
“Business Associate” at 45 C.F.R. 160.103, and in reference to the party to this agreement, shall
mean the entity named above.

(c).

Covered Entity. “Covered Entity” shall generally have the same meaning as the term “Covered
Entity” at 45 C.F.R. 160.103, and in reference to the party to this agreement, shall mean Cook
County Health and Hospitals System.

(d).

Electronic Protected Health Information. "Electronic Protected Health Information" or "EPHI"
shall have the same meaning as the term "Electronic Protected Health Information" in 45 C.F.R.
160.103, limited to the information created, received, maintained, or transmitted by Business
Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity.

(e).

Individual. "Individual" shall have the same meaning as the term "Individual" in 45 C.F.R. 160.103
and shall include a person who qualifies as a personal representative in accordance with 45 C.F.R.
164.502(g).

(f).

Privacy Rule. "Privacy Rule" shall mean the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable
Health Information at 45 C.F.R. part 160 and part 164.

(g).

Protected Health Information. "Protected Health Information" or PHI shall have the same meaning
as the term "Protected Health Information" in 45 C.F.R. 106.103, limited to the information
created, received, maintained, or transmitted by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered
Entity.

(h).

Required By Law. "Required By Law" shall have the same meaning as the term "Required By
Law" in 45 C.F.R. 164.103.

(i).

Secretary. "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the U.S Department of Health and Human
Services or his designee.

(j).

Security Rule. "Security Rule" shall mean the Security Standards at 45 C.F.R. parts 160, and 164.

(k).

Unsecured Protected Health Information. "Unsecured Protected Health Information" shall mean
Protected Health Information is not rendered unusable, unreadable, or indecipherable to
unauthorized persons through the use of a technology or methodology specified by the Secretary.

2.

OBLIGATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF BUSINESS ASSOCIATE
Page 27 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

(a).

For purposes of this Part 2, Business Associate shall ensure that any obligations, restrictions, or
conditions set forth herein shall apply to any of its employees, agents, consultants, contractors or
subcontractors or assigns who creates, receives, maintains or transmits Covered Entity’s Protected
Health Information. Business Associate shall not use any Subcontractor to assist Business
Associate with the provision of services under the Contract without the prior written consent of
Covered Entity.

(b).

Business Associate shall not use or disclose Protected Health Information other than as permitted
or required by this Contract or as Required By Law.

(c).

Business Associate shall implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards that
reasonably and appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of EPHI that
Business Associate creates, receives, maintains, or transmits on behalf of Covered Entity as
required by the Privacy Rule, Security Rule, and the HITECH Act.

(d).

Business Associate shall report to Covered Entity any use or disclosure of the Protected Health
Information not provided for by this Contract of which it becomes aware.

(e).

Business Associate must, following the discovery of any appearance of a Breach, non-permitted
use or disclosure, security incident, or other incident affecting unsecured Protected Health
Information, notify the CCHHS Corporate Compliance and Privacy Program without unreasonable
delay, and no later than 5 days from the date that the Business Associate discovers such Breach,
non-permitted use or disclosure, security incident, or other incident. Business Associate shall
provide any reports or notices required by HIPAA as a result of Business Associate’s discovery.
On behalf of CCHHS, Business Associate will provide such reports or notices to any party or entity
(including but not limited to media, Secretary, and individuals affected by the Breach) entitled by
law to receive the reports or notices as directed by the CCHHS Corporate Compliance and Privacy
Program. Business Associate agrees to pay the costs associated with notifying individuals affected
by the Breach, which may include, but are not limited to, paper, printing, and mailing costs. In the
event of a disagreement, the final determination of whether a Breach occurred will be made by the
CCHHS Corporate Compliance and Privacy Program.

(f).

If applicable, Business Associate shall provide access, at the request of Covered Entity, and in a
reasonable time and manner, to Protected Health Information in a Designated Record Set, to
Covered Entity or, as directed by Covered Entity, to an Individual or an individual’s designee in
order to meet the requirements under 45 C.F.R. 164.524.

(g).

Business Associate shall, when directed by Covered Entity, make amendment(s) to Protected
Health Information in a Designated Record Set in a reasonable time and manner, or take other
measures as necessary, as required by 45 C.F.R. 164.526.

(h).

Business Associate shall make internal practices, books, and records relating to the use and
disclosure of Protected Health Information received from, or created or received by Business
Associate on behalf of, Covered Entity available to the Secretary, in a reasonable time and manner
or as designated by the Secretary, for purposes of the Secretary determining Covered Entity's
compliance with HIPAA and the HITECH Act.
Page 28 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

(i).

Business Associate shall restrict disclosure of an Individual's Protected Health Information as
directed by Covered Entity.

(j).

Business Associate shall provide to Covered Entity when requested for a specific individual, in a
reasonable time and manner, an accounting of disclosures of Protected Health Information in
accordance with 45 C.F.R. 164.528.

(k).

In order to monitor the privacy and security of its PHI, the Covered Entity may request, and
Business Associate shall make available to Covered Entity, information regarding the Business
Associate’s HIPAA Privacy and/or Security program, including the most recent electronic
Protected Health Information risk analysis, policies, procedures, Security Incident log and
responses, and evidence of training, including training materials and training logs.

(l).

To the extent Business Associate is to carry out one or more of Covered Entity's obligations under
the Privacy Rule, Business Associate shall comply with the requirements of the Privacy Rule that
apply to Covered Entity in the performance of such obligations.
3.

PERMITTED USES AND DISCLOSURES BY BUSINESS ASSOCIATE

3.1

For purposes of this Part 3, Business Associate shall ensure that any of its employees, agents,
consultants, contractors or subcontractors or assigns who creates, receives, maintains or transmits
Covered Entity’s Protected Health Information shall comply with the provisions set for herein.

(a).

Except as otherwise limited in this Contract, Business Associate may use or disclose Protected
Health Information to perform functions, activities, or services for, or on behalf of, Covered Entity
as set forth in this Contract.

(b).

Business Associate may use or disclose Protected Health Information as Required by Law.

(c).

Business Associate agrees to make uses and disclosures and requests for Protected Health
Information consistent with Covered Entity's minimum necessary policies and procedures.

(d).

Business Associate may not use or disclose Protected Health Information in a manner that would
violate the Privacy Rule if done by Covered Entity, except for the specific uses and disclosures set
forth below in Section 3.1 (f), (g), and 3.2.

(e).

Business Associate shall not, directly or indirectly, receive remuneration in exchange for any
Protected Health Information unless the exchange qualifies as an exception to the HIPAA general
rule, as outlined in the HIPAA regulations and is permitted by this Contract and the Master
Contract.

(f).

Business Associate may use Protected Health Information to report violations of law to appropriate
Federal and State authorities, consistent with 45 C.F.R. 164.502(j)(1).

(g).

Except as otherwise limited in this Contract, Business Associate may use Protected Health
Page 29 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

Information for the proper management and administration of the Business Associate or to carry
out the legal responsibilities of the Business Associate.
(h).

Except as otherwise limited in this Contract, Business Associate may disclose Protected Health
Information for the proper management and administration of the Business Associate or to carry
out the legal responsibilities of the Business Associate, provided that disclosures are Required By
Law, or Business Associate obtains reasonable assurances from the person to whom the
information is disclosed that it will remain confidential and used or further disclosed only as
Required By Law or for the purpose for which it was disclosed to the person, and the person
notifies the Business Associate of any instances of which it is aware in which the confidentiality
of the information has been breached.

(i).

Except as otherwise limited in this Contract, Business Associate may use Protected Health
Information to provide Data Aggregation services to Covered Entity as permitted by 45 C.F.R.
164.504(e)(2)(i)(B).

3.2

Data Ownership
Business Associate acknowledges and agrees that Covered Entity owns all right, title, and interest
in and to all Protected Health Information of Covered Entity that Business Associate creates,
receives, maintains or transmits and that such all such right, title, and interest is vested in Covered
Entity; nor shall Business Associate nor any of its employees, agents, consultants or assigns have
any right, title or interest to any of the Protected Health Information. Business Associate shall not
use the Protected Health Information in any form including, but not limited to, stripped, deidentified, or aggregated information, or statistical information derived from or in connection with
the Protected Health Information, except as expressly set forth in this Contract. Business Associate
represents, warrants, and covenants that it will not compile and/or distribute analyses to third
parties using any Protected Health Information without Covered Entity’s express written consent.

4.

OBLIGATIONS OF COVERED ENTITY

4.1

Provisions for Covered Entity to Inform Business Associate of Privacy Practices and
Restrictions

(a).

Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate itself of any limitation(s) in the Notice of Privacy
Practices of Covered Entity, to the extent that such limitation may affect Business Associate's use
or disclosure of Protected Health Information.

(b).

Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate itself of any changes in, or revocation of,
permission by Individual to use or disclose Protected Health Information, to the extent that such
changes may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of Protected Health Information.

(c).

Covered Entity shall notify Business Associate itself of any restriction on the use or disclosure of
Protected Health Information that Covered Entity has agreed to as provided in 45 C.F.R. 164.522,
to the extent that such restriction may affect Business Associate's use or disclosure of Protected
Health Information.
Page 30 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

(d).

Covered Entity shall obtain any consent, authorization or permission that may be required by the
Privacy Rule or applicable state law and/or regulations prior to furnishing Business Associate with
Protected Health Information .
4.2

Permissible Requests by Covered Entity

Covered Entity shall not request Business Associate to use or disclose Protected Health
Information in any manner that would not be permissible under the Privacy Rule if done by
Covered Entity except for uses and disclosures under Section 3.2.
5.

TERMINATION

(a).

Term. This Contract shall be effective as of the Effective Date, and shall either terminate when
Covered Entity provides written notice to Business Associate or as provided in 5(b), Termination
for Cause, below.

(b).

Termination for Cause. Upon Covered Entity's knowledge of a material breach by Business
Associate, Covered Entity shall either:

1.

Provide an opportunity for Business Associate to cure the breach or end the violation and if
Business Associate does not cure the breach or end the violation within the time specified by
Covered Entity, terminate this Contract;
Immediately terminate this Contract if Business Associate has breached a material term of this
Contract and cure is not possible.

2.

(c).
1.

Effect of Termination.

Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this Section, upon termination of this Contract, for any
reason, Business Associate shall return or destroy all Protected Health Information received from
Covered Entity, or created, received, or maintained by Business Associate on behalf of Covered
Entity. This provision shall apply to Protected Health Information that is in the possession of
consultants, contractors, subcontractors, employees or agents of Business Associate. Business
Associate shall retain no copies of the Protected Health Information.
a. Business Associate shall render all paper PHI unusable through an appropriate method, which may
include shredding, pulverization or burning.
b. Business Associate shall render all ePHI unusable, unreadable, or indecipherable to unauthorized
individuals through the use of a technology or methodology specified by the Secretary of HHS.
c. To the extent it is necessary for Business Associate to destroy any PHI, Business Associate shall
provide a specific, detailed account of the destruction process if so account is requested by Covered
Entity.

Page 31 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

2.

In the event that Business Associate determines that returning or destroying the Protected Health
Information is infeasible, Business Associate shall provide to Covered Entity notification of the
conditions that make returning or destroying it infeasible. If Covered Entity agrees that such return
or destruction is infeasible, Business Associate shall extend the protections of this Contract to such
Protected Health Information and limit further uses and disclosures of such Protected Health
Information to those purposes that make the return or destruction infeasible, for so long as Business
Associate maintains such Protected Health Information.

3.

The provisions of this Section 5(c), Effect of Termination, shall survive the termination of this
Contract.

6.

MITIGATION

(a).

Mitigation. To the extent known or reasonably foreseeable, Business Associate agrees to use
commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful effect resulting
from a use or disclosure of Protected Health Information by Business Associate or its agents in
violation of the terms of this Contract. Business Associate agrees to establish procedures to
investigate the PHI Incident, mitigate losses and protect against any future PHI Incidents, and to
provide a description of these procedures and the specific findings of the investigation to Covered
Entity in the time and manner reasonably requested by Covered Entity.
7.

MISCELLANEOUS

(a).

Regulatory References. A reference in this Contract to a Section in HIPAA or the HITECH Act
means the Section as in effect or as amended.

(b).

Amendment. The Parties agree to meet and confer regarding amendment of this Contract from
time to time as is necessary for either Party or both Parties to comply with the requirements of
HIPAA and the HITECH Act. Any amendment, however, must be mutually agreed upon by the
Parties in writing. In the event the Parties are, for any reason, unable to agree on an acceptable
amendment, either Party may terminate this Contract on written notice to the other Party.

(c).

Interpretation. Any ambiguity in this Contract shall be resolved to permit the Parties to comply
with the HIPAA and the HITECH Act as may be amended from time to time.

(d).

Construction of Terms. The terms of this Contract shall be construed in light of any applicable
interpretation or guidance on HIPAA and/or the HITECH Act issued by HHS or the Office for
Civil Rights ("OCR") from time to time.

(e).

No Third Party Beneficiaries. Nothing in this Contract shall confer upon any person other than the
Parties and their respective successors or assigns, any rights, remedies, obligations, or liabilities
whatsoever.

GC-40 REQUIRED CONTRACTOR FILING WITH COOK COUNTY BOARD OF ETHICS

Page 32 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

  

Any person or persons doing business with Cook County, upon execution of a contract with Cook
County, are required to disclose to the Cook County Board of Ethics the existence of familial
relationships they may have with all persons holding elective office in the State of Illinois, the
County of Cook, or in any municipality within the County of Cook. The disclosure required by
this section shall be filed by January 1 of each calendar year or within thirty (30) days of the
execution of any contract or lease. Any person filing a late disclosure statement after January 31
shall be assessed a late filing fee of $100.00 per day the disclosure is late. Any person found guilty
of violating any provision of this section or knowingly filing a false, misleading, or incomplete
disclosure to the Cook County Board of Ethics shall be prohibited, for a period of three (3) years,
from engaging, directly or indirectly, in any business with Cook County. Note: Please see Chapter
2 Administration, Article VII Ethics, Section 2-582 of the Cook County Code, available at
www.municode.com, to view the full provisions of this section. The Cook County Code of
Ordinances is available on line at www.municode.com. Questions concerning this disclosure
requirement should be directed to the Cook County Board of Ethics.
GC-41 GOVERNMENT FUNDED HEALTHCARE EXCLUSIONS
Contractor shall take those steps necessary to ensure that the supplies, goods, equipment, or
services required to be furnished pursuant to this Contract are not being provided in whole or in
part by individuals or entities who or which have been excluded from participation in Federally
funded healthcare programs.
GC-42 REPORTING SUSPECTED OR KNOWN FRAUDULENT ACTIVITY
Pursuant to the Cook County, Illinois Code of Ordinances Sec. 34-250
Any Person involved in the Cook County Procurement process, including employees, contractors,
and those seeking to do business with the County, shall report directly and without any undue
delay, any suspected or known fraudulent activity in the County’s procurement process to the
Office of the Cook County Inspector General. In addition to any applicable laws protecting
whistleblowers, the County shall ensure that a report made in good faith will not result in any
adverse actions taken by the Board or the County against the Person making such a report. The
System Director of Supply Chain Management’s procedures will include a mechanism to publish
this provision to all appropriate Persons.

END OF SECTION

Page 33 of 33
Part II General Conditions – For External Distribution. May 01, 2017

 