REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

SEPTEMBER 5,2008
ATTENDANCE 

Present: Chairman Warren L. Batts; Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell, MD, 
David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, MPH, Director Sister Sheila
Lyne, Luis Munoz, MD, Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, and Andrea Zopp (10)

Absent: Director Hon. Jerry Butler (1)

Also Present: Pitt Calkin - Interim Chief Financial Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System;
Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Patrick T.
Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s
Attorney; Jeff . McCutchan Supervisor, Transactions and Health Law Division, Of?ce of the
- State?s Attorney; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s
Attorney; David R. Small Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals
System

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on Friday,
September 5, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 Harrison Street, in the fifth floor
conference room, in Chicago, Illinois. 

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of members and it
was determined that a quorum was present.

Chairman Batts indicated that Director Zopp was not physically present at the meeting, but would be attending the
meeting via teleconference call. .

Director Zopp con?rmed her presence.

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to allow Director Zopp to participate as a voting
member invthelmeeting telephonically. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System Board of Directors of Friday, August 22, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System Board 'of Directors of Friday, August 22, 2008. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008

Page 2

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

David R. Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Bureau of Health Services, provided a status report on
several issues.

Pharmacy at Provident Hospital

Mr. Small informed the Board that the new and expanded pharmacy at Provident Hospital has received approval
from the Illinois Department of Public Health and the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional
Regulations, and has received the approval for occupancy from the state pharmacy inspector. They are moving
into the building next door to the main hospital. The pharmacy will open on September 15th; a ribbon cutting
ceremony will take place on September 12h. This expansion increases the workspace for the pharmacy from six
hundred square feet to two thousand square feet. This pharmacy is expected to ?ll over one thousand
prescriptions per day; as a comparison, an average local Walgreens pharmacy typically ?lls roughly four hundred
prescriptions per day.

Director Lyne inquired whether patients prescriptiOns from Stroger Hospital would be ?lled at the Provident
pharmacy. .

Mr. Small responded that the pharmacy would be able to ?ll prescriptions from across the entire system.
Update on Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Process

Mr. Small provided the Board with an update on the ?scal year 2009 budget process. He stated that a draft of the
2009 budget with speci?c options and recommendations' 18 expected to be presented at the September 12th Finance
Committee meeting for the Committee?s review and consideration, after which the full Board would have the
draft to consider at the meeting of September Once the Board?s review and recommendations were
complete, it would then be presented to the President. Through the week of September the President?s of?ce
will engage in internal budget review with departments to prepare the ?nal presentation.

Mr. Small stated that since the beginning of June, when the County began this process, the directive has been to
draft a budget no greater than 2008?s budget, or possible cuts may have to be made. He has reported in response
to this that there are in?ation issues that will impact the 2009 budget; these costs may require an additional look at
services.

Director Ansell inquired into the current level of expenditures, and asked for information on previous years?
levels.

Mr. Small responded that it would be discussed in the revenue memorandum.

Update on status regarding System?s Interim Chief Medical O?icer Position
Mr. Small provided the Board with an update on the status of efforts to ?ll the System?s Chief Medical Of?cer
position. He has drafted and Director Ansell has reviewed the scope of work for the interim position, based upon

twenty-?ve hours or more a week and paid on half-time basis. A professional services contract is expected to be
presented to the Finance Committee for consideration at the September 12?'1 meeting.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008

Page 3

Review of update presented to Cook County Board on September 3, 2008

Mr. Small informed the Board that on September 3, 2008, he and Chairman Batts appeared before the Cook
County Board to present a status report from the System.

At this meeting, the County Board approved a resolution on consolidation of governmental operations and
workforce reduction. (See Attachment This directs all County departments, the Of?ce of the Chief Judge,
the Health and Hospitals System and of?ces of the separately elected of?cials to adopt goals to maximize and
streamline the delivery of services in Order to reduce expenses and personnel and to modernize services. Mr.
Small stated that efforts have been and will continue to be made to consolidate and streamline at the System. He
expects there will be some communication to organize the plan by the County. He added that he will update the
Board with status reports on these efforts.

There were a number of general questions presented by the County Commissioners with regard to organizing
efforts, however, speci?c operational questions were also posed. On the subject of the MedAssets Revenue Cycle
Project, Commissioner Joseph Mario Moreno shared some concerns and inquired into minority participation on
the contract. Commissioner Moreno circulated a memorandum on the subject (see Attachment Mr. Small has
asked MedAssets to prepare a response. He reminded the Board that the System must still rely on that aspect of
Contract Compliance. He added that at the meeting, Commissioner Mike Quigley strongly reminded the System
representatives that the System Board must act within County ordinances.

Chairman Batts stated that there were three particular points or concerns that he noted during the presentation to
the County Board. First, he was asked point-blank by the Commissioners whether the System Board was
complying with all ordinances in every respect. He believed that the State?s Attorney would quickly inform the
System Board if this was not occurring. Secondly, he was asked whether the System Board planned to change the
mission of the System; the mission statement, as he understand it, is to provide quality health care to the poor and
working poor of the County. He assured the County Board that no plans to change the mission have been made or
considered by the System Board at this time. Thirdly, a number of concerns regarding the System?s de?cit were .
stated; he informed the County Board that the System was fully aware and engaged in working on addressing this
problem. .

Revenue Forecast

Mr. Small provided the Board with a forecast on revenue projections. He stated that there was a marked increase
in Medicaid revenues in the last month. He cautioned that one month?s revenue ?gures do not mark a trend; three
months of increases would indicate a trend. He stated that July?s ?gures were the highest in months; August was
high but was not as robust. He stated that there was a shortfall in patient revenues, which were down from $40
million to $34 million.

With regard to intergovernmental transfer payments, Mr. Small stated that the estimated payment for $15 million
in October has been eliminated due to new federal rules. This loss of funding will be mitigated largely through the
State performing routine account reconciliation in October rather than later in the State?s ?scal year. The result of
this action will be recognition of approximately $11.6 million thus netting the impact of the IGT payment change
by .more than $3.5 million. Additionally a State grant in the amount of $2 million had been received and
booked as patient fee revenue. Therefore the projected revenue shortfall as of July is approximately $39 million,
down from the $41 million projected in May.

Mr. Small ?stated that MedAssets has identi?ed $68 million in Medicaid accounts for processing, the bulk of
which could be received before the end of the ?scal year, but it depends on the state?s processing of claims.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008

Page 4

With regard to expense reductions, Mr. Small stated that the May ?nancials show the expense ?gures at 17%
favorable on expenses, despite a 21-22% shortfall in patient fee revenues. Work is progressing on closing the gap.
There are marked reductions in the use of overtime, and non-crucial purchases are being deferred. He added that
the June ?nancials will be available at the September 12th Finance Committee meeting.

Director O?Donnell inquired as to the reason for the increase in Medicaid revenue.

Mr. Small reSponded that he has not yet seen the most recent Medicaid census, but surmised that it was possibly
due to increased eligibility and billing efforts and an increase in eligible patients.

Director O?Donnell inquired whether this was a result of MedAssets? efforts, and inquired into the efforts of the
other vendors involved besides MedAssets.

Mr. Small replied that the System is beginning to see the results of MedAssets? efforts. MedAssets took over the
handling of those receivables aged over one hundred ?fty days, plus other claims. They are doing a better job of
identifying eligibility. The other vendors have been noti?ed of the changes in the numbers of vendors, and appear
to be picking up the pace. 

Director Lyne inquired whether a status report on MedAssets would be given to the Finance Committee.

Director Carvalho responded af?rmatively, and stated that the report would be provided at the next Board
meeting.

Director Ansell inquired whether" retroactive labor contracts would be taken into account as an expense.

Mr. Small responded that the information regarding that subject was presented at the last Human Resources
Committee meeting; a $1.5 million impact will be absorbed by the County for the three labor contracts approved
at the meeting.

In response to a question with regard to receiving a list of System contracts, Mr. Small informed the Board that a
database was being created but needed to be populated with the data on all System contracts. Collecting the

information on the contracts is dif?cult, as the County?s Purchasing Department can only provide a list of
purchase orders and there is no central repository for System contracts.

Director Greenspan asked how payments are authorized.

Pitt Calkin, Interim. Chief Financial Of?cer for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, responded that
after the contracts are approved and executed, the expenditure control team monitors to prevent payments from
exceeding the approved amount of the contract.

Director O?Donnell inquired whether the State?s Attorney participates in the review of contracts.

Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State?s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the State?s
Attorney, responded that they review the contracts as to form.

Director Mu?oz inquired into the method of reviewing encumbrances.

Mr._ Calkin responded that the information is typically presented to the County Board in the form of a cash
disbursement journal. He stated that it can be ranked by descending order.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008

Page 5

Chairman Batts stated that the Board needed a baseline of contracts, in order to know if they are structured
properly from a business standpoint.

Mr. Small informed the Board that patient volumes are down at Fantus Clinic and Stroger Hospital. They are
seeing far fewer patients; on average they see two patients per hour per provider. He stated that there needs to be
higher expectations for productivity. The volume turndown is relative to the 2008 budget passage; there was no
authority until April or May to bring on new positions. 

Director Lyne remarked that the ?gure of 8.3 full?time employees per bed was too high. She believed that four
?JII-time employees per bed is the standard.

Mr. Small responded that for an urban teaching hospital, the average is ?ve. Even if employed physicians were
removed from mix, the ?gure would still be over ?ve. At this time a goal of reducing the FTE count down into
the ?ve range is being established for the upcoming ?scal year.

Director Ansell inquired whether data was available on costs per case-mix?index (CMI) adjusted discharge. Case-
mix?index measures the severity of the clinical care that the patients require.

Mr. Small replied that he and Mr. Calkin were aware of what some of the typical benchmarks are; they are
working towards installing those and making sure that the data is available.

In response to a question from Director O?Donnell with regard to staf?ng levels and case-mix-index levels, Mr.
Small explained that if there is a lower case mix, then for example the nurse staf?ng would be based on more
general standards. Nursing would need to try to adjust to this, not only to the census but to the needs.
Complicating matters further are the collective bargaining agreement requirements.

Director Mu?oz stated that the mission should be reviewed. He believed that the Board needs to determine what
services will be offered to the community, what kind of partnerships or collaborations are available, and whether
the System should be involved in all current lines of business.

Director Greenspan stated that the budget should include statistical projections; these would serve as the basis for
the budget by showing what supports each program, and also justify the costs and staff.

August 25, 2008 memorandum from Joseph Fratto, Chief of Sta?? to President Todd Slroger, regarding
legislative initiatives

Mr. Small reviewed a memorandum dated August 25, 2008 from Joseph Fratto, Chief of Staff to President Todd
H. Stroger regarding legislative agendas and apprOpriations items. (See Attachment He stated that the
Board should decide how to respond to the request for information, which 1s due by October 19th.

Chairman Batts requested Directors to volunteer to work on addressing the issue; Vice Chairman Ramirez and
Directors Carvalho and O?Donnell responded. It was determined that the group would be headed up by Director
O?Donnell.

Following is the composition of the
Legislative Communications Volunteers:

Director O?Donnell
Vice Chairman Ramirez
Director Carvalho

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008

Page 6

Miscellaneous

Mr. Small informed the Board that requests for meetings with the members of the System Board have been
received from community groups.

Director Zopp pointed out that the Board has many public meetings scheduled already; it may be preferable to set
aside time at these meetings to address the community groups.

Chairman Batts requested that management draft a policy with regard to community communications for the
Board to consider. 

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of 8- 26- 08*
note: Medical Staff were approved by the Quality and
Patient Safety Committee at this meeting

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to approve the Report of the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee for the meeting of August 26, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMJVIITTEE REPORTS

Human Resources Committee Meeting of 8-28?08*
note: The three (3) following physician labor contracts were approved, as amended, by the
Human Resources Committee at this meeting:

An agreement for the period of January 29, 2008 - November 30, 2008 between Service
Employees International Union, Local 20 and Cook County for certain physicians
employed at Provident Hospital of Cook County.

b) An agreement for the period of August 28, 2008 2007- November 30,2008 between
Service Employees International Union, Local 20 and Cook County for certain physicians
employed at Cermak Health Services.

c) An agreement for the period of August 28, 2008 2007 - November 30, 2008 between
Service Employees International Union, Local 20 and Cook County for certain physicians
employed at the Ambulatory and Community Health Network.
Vice Chairman Ramirez recused himself. .

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to approve the Report of the Human
Resources Committee for the meeting of August 28,2008. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Vice Chairman Ramirez voted PRESENT.

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5,2008

Page 7

REVIEW AND APPROVE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
TO THE RULES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Submitting for approval the following amendment to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the Board of
Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Rule 4. Organization, Standing committees and subcommittees, (2) The standing committees of the System
Board shall be:

C. Quality and Patient Safety. The President. of each medical staff shall be an ex-of?cio member of
this Committee without a vote and shall not be considered for determining a quorum. The Chief Medical
Of?cer, Chief Operating Of?cer, and Chief Nursing Of?cer of each operating unit of the shall be
an ex-of?cio member of this Committee without a vote and shall not be considered for determining a
quorum. This Committee shall oversee the quality, safety and performance improvement programs of the
with the goal of recognizing the critical importance of maintaining high quality service and
patient and staff safety and satisfaction. This Committee shall receive reports on pertinent matters of
quality, safety, satisfaction, regulatory and accreditation activities at least quarterly from the 
Chief Executive Of?cer, and shall report on such matters to the System Board. This Committee shall be
responsible for serving as a liaison between the hospital medical staffs and the System Board. It

 

staffs+ The SvStem Board delegates to this Committee the authority to consider and render a ?nal
,decision with regard to applications for initial appointment or reappointment to membership on the
Medical Staffs, including, the granting of initial clinical privileges or the renewal or modi?cation of
clinical privileges; assignment of staff category, department and division; and any special conditions to
the appointment or reappointment. An additional purpose of this Committee is the full and candid
discussion of matters which affect the medical staffs and the System Board. This Committee
shall further develop its responsibilities and determine a plan to implement those responsibilities. This
Committee shall consider other matters as may be assigned by the System Board.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to approve the proposed Amendment to the Rules of
the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

NEW BUSINESS

RECEIVE REPORT AND DISCUSS PROJECT OF THE DEVELOPMENT
OF A SOUTH SIDE DELIVERY SYSTEM FOR PREGNANT WOMEN AND
AND POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF 

Mr. Small provided the Board with an update on a previously discussed item regarding pediatric and obstetric
referrals from the University of Chicago. Additionally, Mr. Small wanted to clarify and con?rm with the Board
the process that may be appropriate.

Mr. Small explained to the Board that Health Management Associates has been hired by the Comer Family
Foundation to help with the planning process for the South Side health care network, providing for care and
partnering with area providers.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008
Page 8

Mr. Small stated that Health Management Associates (HMA) IS acting as the intermediary; he was approached
direCtly by representatives of HMA regarding whether the System was willing to participate in this network
development. He added that David Hefner, President of the University of Chicago Medical Center, has indicated
to him that it was logical to work with the County as a preferred partner. The timeframe, however, is essential;
Mr. Hefner requested a response from the Board on their level of interest by the end of September.

Mr. Small stated that without extending the System beyond capacity, working with this program could make
sense. He stated that he would like to tell Mr. Hefner that the Board would be willing to entertain the idea of
participation in the program for pediatric and obstetric referrals; anything further would fit into the strategic plan
process He also suggested that the Comer Foundation may need to be directly approached to ascertain whether
funding opportunities exist to help support this or other activities.

Director Lyne inquired whether the program was mixed in with the University of Chicago Urban Initiative.

Mr. Small responded that HMA is formulating the plan for the network and will present the plan to the Comer
Foundation.

Director O?Donnell stated that the needs should be analyzed. She also had questions regarding role and
interest.

Director Ansell stated that he supports direct talks with external partners.

Director Golden reminded the Board that she is employed by the University of Chicago Medical Center. She
asked Mr. Small how this referral process wOuld be different than the way referrals are currently done.

Mr. Small responded that he was not sure that it is different; there is, however, a pointed strategy to move lower
acuity cases elsewhere. He felt that the System could take fifteen or more pediatric cases at current resource levels
without additional resources.

Director Golden pointed out that the materials distributed contained an error. She stated that in the talking points,
She did not believe that the University of Chicago Medical Center is planning on moving one thousand Medicaid
deliveries per year, rather it is one thousand low-complexity cases.

Director O?Donnell inquired whether these referrals would be specifically Medicaid patients.

Mr. Small responded that what has been presented in the preliminary planning is specifically Medicaid patients.

Director Lyne asked whether Provident Hospital?s Obstetrics Department was fully functioning and fully staffed.

Mr. Small replied that it is fully functioning and fully staffed; the births at Provident have been lower than
expected, due to planning for a referral relationship that did not materialize.

Director Lyne inquired into the reason for continuing births at Provident if Stroger Hospital has the capacity.
Mr. Small responded that this is an example of issues that will need to be discussed during the budget process.

Director Carvalho stated that issues such as this tie into the strategic plan.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008

Page 9

Director Greenspan stated his opinion that, mindful of the $40 million projected shortfall, if there is an
opportunity to accept referrals, then the System should do so. He thought that discussions of potential
relationships such as this provides a good opportunity to measure and assess during the planning process the kinds
of patients and diagnoses these types of relationships produce.

Chairman Batts pointed out that there is higher professional liability related to obstetrics cases, and this should be
considered a factor in obstetrics referrals.

 

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session to discuss the Human Resources Committee Report of August 28, 2008 with regard to
compensation for the Interim Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The
recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals
for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.? THE
7 MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into regular
session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Ansell, made the following motion:

0 to approve and adopt the following primary responsibilities and accountabilities for David Small,
System Interim Chief Executive Of?cer; and

Primary Responsibilities and Accountabilities for
Interim Chief Executive Of?cer - David Small

1. Provide organizational and operational leadership to the until System Chief
Executive Of?cer is hired.

2. Assist in onboarding of interim Chief Medical Officer.

3. Develop and implement 2009 Budget.

4. Develop objectives and strategies for upcoming collective bargaining negotiations
and work with Cook County Bureau of Human Resources to achieve appropriate input and
participation of personnel.

5. Ensure support of work including provision of requested information and
relevant staff support.

6. Work with on development of Strategic Plan.

7. Develop and implement system- ?wide purchasing function, including necessary
infrastructure with policies and procedures Develop appropriate timelines

8. Develop . a proposed system-wide human resources function including necessary
infrastructure with policies and procedures and, where appropriate, begin implementation.
Develop appropriate timelines.

9. Create internal industry standard, ?nancial and budget variance reporting, including

installation of healthcare general ledger system.

10. Implement rapid revenue cycle restructuring to reduce receivables and accelerate cash.

1 1. Institute apprOpriate audit review, particularly federally funded grant programs.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008
Page 10

12. Oversee the development of policies for co-pay and deductible collections, ?nancial
assistance programs and bad debts.

13. Improve recruitment and hiring process, reduce delays and achieve appropriate staf?ng
levels.

14. Identify and develop potential sources of additional funding.

15. Ensure system-wide compliance with Equal Employment Opportunity and Af?rmative
Action policies and plans.

0 to approve and adopt the following salary proposal for the David Small, System Interim Chief
Executive Of?cer.

Salary Proposal for Interim CEO David Small

Base Salary: $275,000
Annual Bonus
Opportunity: $100,000

Vesting in increments based on achievement of performance targets and payable after 12 months.

Proposed Performance Targets:

0 Development and approval of 2009 budget.

0 Development and implementation of polices for co-pay and deductible collections,
?nancial assurance process and bad debt.

0 Creation of internal, industry standard ?nancial and budget variance reporting and
installation of healthcare general ledger system.

I Development and implementation of improved recruitment and hiring process.
(Benchmarks to be developed).

0 Development and implementation of System-wide purchasing function, including
necessary infrastructure, policies and procedures.

0 Completion of successful certi?cation for all medical programs being reviewed
from 9/08 8/09. .

On the motion to approve and adopt the primary responsibilities and accountabilities and the proposed
salary proposal, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.

Secretary DeLeon replied that there were none.

 

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 5, 2008
Page 11

Adjournment

Director Munoz, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

me?

Warren L. Batts, Cha?irTnan

@175 M5

?Wew B. DeLeon, Secretary

  

 

 

9/05/08 Board Report

ATTACHMENT #1

NEW ITEMS

Meeting of the Cook County Board of Commissioners
County Board Room, County Building
Wednesday, September 3, 2008, 10:00 A.M.



PRESIDENT
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
ITEM #1
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by

TODD H. STROGER, President and WILLIAM M. BEAVERS, JERRY BUTLER,
ELIZABETH DOODY GORMAN, GREGG GOSLIN, JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
and DEBORAH SIMS, County Commissioners

Co-Sponsored by

FORREST CLAYPOOL, EARLEAN COLLINS, JOHN P. DALEY, ROBERTO MALDONADO,
JOSEPH MARIO MORENO, ANTHONY J. PERAICA, MIKE QUIGLEY,
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER and PETER N. SILVESTRI, County Commissioners

RESOLUTION ON CONSOLIDATION OF GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS
AND WORKFORCE REDUCTION

WHEREAS, since Fiscal Year 2007, Cook County government through consolidation efforts and
management transition has moved forward in transforming Cook County to a more modern and ef?cient
operation; and

WHEREAS, among Cook County?s improvements, Cook County has consolidated health services;
convened a Blue Ribbon Committee; created an Independent Governance Board for the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; restructured the appointment and of?ce of the Independent Inspector
General; revised purchasing processes to encourage group purchasing and increased transparency;
established performance-based budgeting standards and has established a revenue review committee,
expenditure review committee and a property tax classi?cation task force consisting of internal County
employees and business and community leaders to review County operations and offer recommendations
for further improvements; and

WHEREAS, in addition to the more recent efforts undertaken to modernize Cook County and increase
ef?ciency, the County has made a concerted effort to reduce its workforce while maintaining necessary
services; and

WHEREAS, since Fiscal Year 2005, Cook County has undertaken efforts to reduce its hill-time
workforce and eliminate vacant positions; and

WHEREAS, Cook County continues to strive to provide ef?cient, effective and ?scally reSponsible
management while continuing to explore all possible ways to decrease the structural de?cit and reduce
operational costs; and

WHEREAS, in an effort to decrease the structural de?cit and reduce operational costs, all County
Departments, including the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, of?ce of the Chief Judge and the
of?ces of the separately elected Cook County Of?cials should thoroughly evaluate their Operations and
streamline operations; and

WHEREAS, through the consolidation, centralization of operations, elimination of duplicative functions,
modernization and an increase in group purchasing, a further reduction in the workforce can be achieved;
and

WHEREAS, all County departments should thoroughly evaluate the potential for consolidation,
centralization and elimination of duplicative functions and present their plan to the President and the
Cook County Board of Commissioners in an effort to achieve savings and reduce the County?s workforce
to 22,000 by the close of Fiscal Year 2010.

page 2
NEW ITEMS
Meeting of September 3, 2008

PRESIDENT continued

 

PROPOSED RESOLUTION continued
ITEM #1 cont?d

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that all Cook County Departments under the jurisdiction of
the Cook County Board President, Cook County Board of Commissioners, Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, of?ce of the Chief Judge and the of?ces of the separately elected Cook County
Of?cials be required to thoroughly evaluate their operations, avoid duplication of functions and, where
appropriate, consolidate and centralize functions and services; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that County Departments, including the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, of?ce of the Chief Judge and the of?ces of the separately elected Cook County
Of?cials evaluate their Fiscal Year 2009 budget request with modernization and ef?ciency as priority
goals; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that County Departments, including the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, of?ce of the Chief Judge and the of?ces of the separately elected Cook County
Of?cials move toward Fiscal Year 2009 and 2010 with plans to avoid duplicative functions, consolidate
and centralize services and reduce their respective workforce, where applicable; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Cook County Departments, the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, of?ce of the Chief Judge and the of?ces of the separately elected Cook County
Of?cials are directed to work with the Industrial Engineers to determine where duplicative
functions/services exist and review the potential for consolidation or centralization; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Industrial Engineers report back to the President within 180
days on the status of their ?ndings with regard to possible consolidation of functions/services and
streamlining of operations; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a
certi?ed copy of this Resolution to the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board, of?ce of the
Chief Judge and the of?ces of the separately elected Cook County Of?cials, the Assessor, Board of
Review, Clerk of the Circuit Court, County Clerk, Recorder of Deeds, Sheriff, State?s Attorney, and
Treasurer.

 

In accordance with Cook County Code Section Amendment or suspension of rules,
Commissioner Daley, seconded by Commissioner Peraica, moved to suspend Section Prior
notice to public; agendas. The motion carried unanimously.

Commissioner Goslin, seconded by Commissioner Murphy, moved that the Resolution be approved and
adopted. The motion carried unanimously.

9/05/08 Board Report

#2

 mu ?1:23 312bl5133759 CUMISSIUNER MORENO PAGE @1182


118 NORTH CLARK STREET. ROOM 567
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 80802 CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60632
PHONE: 312-603-5443 A PHONE: 773-927?7154
. FAX: 312-603-3755 FAX: 

JOSEPH MORENO
COMMISSIONER - 7TH DISTRICT
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPDRE


2455 WEST 3er STREET

 

Comm?megs
Chairman:
Roads and Bridges
Rules and Administration

Vice-Chairman: MEMORANDUM

Labor

Member:

Construction . To: David Small, Interim CEO ofthe Cook County
2mm 33511132? Health Hospitals System; Warren Batts,
Environmental Control Chairman ofthe Health Hospitals Board;

?nance . . 
manna? Hospitals Hospital Board Directors

Inlonnarion Technology and .

AIdomation .. - - .
Law Enforcement FROM. CommIsSIoner Joseph Mano Moreno
Legislation, Intergovernmental

and Veterans Relations . -
Rea, Estate and Bushes; and SUBJECT. lnfon?natIon Request

Economic Development

trainings" ?mm? DATE: September 4, 2008

Workers: Compensation
Zoning and Building

I ask that you please provide a detailed accounting concerning
the status of?the MBENVBE participation in the Med Assets
Revenue Cycle contract (No. 08-41-245), which was approved
on May 20, 2008.

Speci?cally, i would like to know what if any functions each
vendoris performing to date and their percentage of
participation in the contract as well as the contractual details
Med Assets has with each of their MBE participants. If they

are found not to be performing required functions as a result of 
Med Assets handling of the contract, an investigation should

be conducted to ascertainif Med Assets is in breach of

contract for failing to abide by their obligations under the
County's MBEIWBE ordinance.

If Med Assets is found to be in breach of contract, the 
Board should seek to terminate said contract and

Printed on Recycled Pnper

213/ 214/268 18:29 3125633759 I CUMISSIDNER MORENO PAGE 82.152

consequently, the company should be banned from doing
businese with the county for the duration of two years,

Although the System Board is responsible for the governance
of the County's Health Services, they are also required to
verify that the County?s ordinances are adhered to. Ultimately.
it is'the Board of Commissioners responsibility to protect and
ensure that all ordinances adopted by this Honorable Body are
respected and complied with.

I ask that you provide this information as soon as possible.
Thank you. . 3

CC: Todd H. Stinger. President
County Commissioners
Betty Hancock-Perry, Director of Contract Compliance

9/05/08 Board Report

ATTACHMENT #3

 

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY
113 NORTH CLARK STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602 -
(312) 
FAX: (11 1 2) 603-0744

JOSEPH M..FRA1TO
CHIEF OF STAFF

Date: August 25, 2008 A -

To: All Bureau Chiefs and Department Heads

From: 7 Joseph M. Fratto, Chief of Staff 

RE: - 2009'Department Legislative and AppropriationsAgendas 

 

President Stroger'has asked his Government Affairs Team to begin planning for next year?s
legislative and appropriations requests for Spring?eld and Washington DC. This? 15 the
opportunity for your office to submit your department?s federal and state agendas for 2009.

Accompanying this memo are several forms. Form A IS to be completed by the Bureau Chief or
Department Head to ensure that my office has your current contact information. Form 18 to be
completed by your of?Ce?s designated contact person for our} Government Affairs Of?ce. This is
the individual with whom Government Affairs will work on a regular basis to advance our

common goals in Spring?eld and Washington DC If you elect to be the designated contact

. person for your of?ce, please indicate that on Form B.

Form is to be completed in its entirety for every state legislative proposal that your of?ce
submits for consideration. Specially, we are looking for proposals to change state law to better
serve the residents of Cook County by streamlining government and bureaucracy, generating
revenue and making g0vernment easier to navigate for the people we serve

Finally, orrn is to be completed for every state or federal appropriation request that your
department submits for consideration. Both the United States Congress and the Illinois General --
Assembly earmark funding for a wide variety of projects every year. For every funding request
from your department valued at a minimum of $500, 000, please complete the relevant form
attached to this memo.

Please submit completed forms to me with a copy to Derek Blaida by the close of busmess on
Friday October 10 2008. Electronic submissions are preferred and should be e?mailed to

and derekblaida@vahoo. com If you have any questions please 
contact Derek at (312) 603? 8833. 

Jf_d'ept heads_ 2009 Legislative Memo dated 082508

Printed on Recycled Paper

FORMA
(03/2008) 

COUNTY OF COOK, ILLINOIS
CONTACT INFORMATON .A

BUREAU 

Name:
Tille?:
"Department:
Address: .
Zip:
Of?ce Telephone Number:
Fax Number: 
E-Inail:
. County Issued Cell Number;
Pager Numberi 
4 Home Telephone. Number:

Persqnal Cell Nuulber: .

Jf_dept heads_ 2009 Legislative Memo dated 082508

 

FORM 
(03/2003).

COUNTY OF COOK, ILLINOIS
DESIGNATED CONTACT PERSON FOR GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS

Name:
Title: 
. Department:
Address: 
City, State, le: .
Of?ce Telephone Nuulber:
Fax Number:
'E-mail: - .
Couuty Issued Cell Nnmbee:
Pager Number:
'_Home Telephone Number:

Personal Cell Number: .

Jf__dcpt heads_ 2009 Legislative Memo dated 082508

 

FORM 

DATE: - . (Date) -

 

Tot Joseph M. Frat'to, Chief of Staff 
. FROM: .. (Provide the name .of the Bureau Chiefor Department Head and the department
name) . 
RE: 2009 Legislative Agenda (Provide a short title for your proposal)
1 SUMMARY or PROPOSAL

2) WHAT: - (Please provide a summary of the legislative proposal in narrative form)

b) WHERE: (Please state if this proposal will affectresidents countywide or if it will
only affect a particular. area or constituency of the county. For all proposals that?are
not countywide, please include the exact location of the affected area of the proposal.
If the proposal is for a general location, pleaseprovide the general street boundaries

or another deScription of the location.) -

(For all proposals that are not please list the Cook County Commissioner
District(s) that the proposal may affect.) .

c) TIME CONSTRAINTS: (Please identity when this proposal may becomea
problemfor your?d'epartment if it?is not introduced for consideration or approved by
. the Illinois ?General Assembly by a speci?c calendar date. If time is not a factor in
this proposal, please indicate that as well.) -

AFFECTED PARTIES

It is important to comprehensively identify who .will be impacted by this proposal. For example,
please consider if the proposal will. impact speci?c businesses or industries,'business associations, 
community and civic groups, labor organiaatiOHs, residents, tourists or visitors to Cook County.
For the items below, pleaseprovide as much informatiOn as possible.

a) SUPPORTERS OF THIS (Self-explanatory)

b) ANALYSIS OF SUPPORT: (Please pro'vide a detailed analysis of what
'speci?c issues or components of your proposal are being supported and the level
of this support. Please also note if there are particular issues or components of
the proposal that the supporters will oppose and the level of this opposition.)

c) OPPONENTS OF THIS PROPOSAL: (Self-explanatory)

Jf_dept heads_ 2009 Legislative Memo dated 082508

 

 (1) ANALYSIS OF OPPOSITION: (Please provide a detailed analysis of what
speci?c issues or components of your proposal will be opposed and the level of 
this Opposition. Please also note if there are-particular issues or components of

the proposal that the opponents will support and the level of this support.)

.8) WERETHE LIKELY OPPONENTS CONSULTED DURING THE

FORMATION OF THIS (Self-explanatory)-

REASONS OR THIS PROPOSAL

BENEFIT TO COOK COUNTY AND ITS RESIDENTS: (Please concisely State the
bene?t of this prOposal to Cook County and the people who live, work or visit within its
boundaries. Please estimate the number of people that the proposal will affect and cite
any cost savings to the taxpayer or increaSe-in the amount Of revenue that the county can
be expected to generate if this proposal is approved.) . A

HAVE OTHER 0R ADOPTED SIMILAR
(If yes, please indicate the counties or other units of government that
have adopted this proposal and the result of the initiative in those jurisdictions)

. ASSUNIIN THIS PROPOSAL AIS APPROVED BY THE ILLINOIS GENERAL
ASSEMBLY, WILL THIS PROGRAM OR CONCEPT HAVE A DIRECT OR
INDIRECT COST TO COOK (self-explanatory. If the answer is yes,
please provide adetailed justi?cation of the cost of this proposal.) 

CAN THIS PROPOSAL BE ACCOMPLISHED BY USE OF COOK .
HOME RULE POWERS THROUGH THE PASSAGE OF A RESOLUTION 0R
ORDINANCE BY THE COOK OF 
(Self-explanatory) . 

DRAFT PROPOSAL LANGUAGE ?7
Please submit a draft of your legislative proposal. Please clearly indicate the Chapter(s)?
and Section(s) of the Illinois Compiled Statutes your department seeks to amend.

Strikeout all current and existing law that your department wishes to delete and
underscore or Underline any language that your department desires to add to state law.

FACT SHEET

. Please provide a detailed one-page fact sheet that describes your proposal and how it
bene?ts the residents Of or visitors to Cook County. 

n; dept heads_ 2009 Legislative Memo dated 032503

 

FORM 
FEDERAL AND STATE APPROPRIATION REQUESTINFORMATION .

I a) Please provide a detailed project description and the history of the project or_
initiative for which the department seeks funding. 

. b) Please describe, in'detail,the purpose ofthe'funding-request.

Please provide a detailed budget for the cOmpletion of the project, any other
source of revenue that may be used to fund this initiative and current or past
federal, state or local funding sources dedicated to this program.

d) Please provide the scheduledproject completion date.

e) Please provide the-amount of funding requested.

if_dept heads_ 2009 Legislative Memo dated 082508

 

