REPORT OF THE
HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

May2S, 2009
ATTENDANCE

Present:

Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; and Sister
Sheila Lyne, RSM (4)
Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts (Ex-Officio)

Absent:

Director Jorge Ramirez (1)

Also Present:

Director Hon. Jerry Butler
Matthew B. DeLeon - Secretary to the Board, Cook County Board of Commissioners;
Laura Lechowicz Felicione - Special Counsel to Cook County Board President Todd H.
Stroger; William Foley - Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals
System; Helen Haynes - Special Counsel and Associate Administrator, Cook County
Department of Public Health; John M. Raba, MD ­ Interim Chief Medical Officer, Cook
County Health and Hospitals System; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil Actions
Bureau, Office of the State's Attorney; Jonathan Rothstein - Deputy Bureau Chief, Bureau
of Human Resources of Cook County; David R. Small - Interim Chief Executive Officer,
Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Sidney Thomas - Chief Operating Officer,
Provident Hospital of Cook County; Greg Vaci - Office of the State's Attorney

Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
met pursuant to notice on Thursday, May 28, 2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W.
Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.
Your Human Resources Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.
Roll Call
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of members and
it was determined that a quorum was present.
Director Golden briefly chaired the meeting until Chairman Zopp arrived to assume the Chair.

Public Comments
Director Golden asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none.

\


 REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 28, 2009
PAGE 2

Update and discussion of pending information requests
Director Golden inquired whether there were any information requests that required discussion at this time.
Director Carvalho requested information on salary comparisons. He questioned how the System's salaries
compare across the board to other comparable institutions.
David Small, Chief Operating Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, responded that this
issue is currently being worked on; they started with the physicians, which will be discussed later at the meeting.
A more comprehensive study of the issue will require System, County and outside resources.
William Foley, Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, inquired whether
salary data available through entities such as the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council (MCHC) has been
utilized for such salary studies.
Director Carvalho responded that he wasn't sure whether the data from MCHC has been used systematically,
however, to get a true comparability, the study must get through the System's complex benefit structure.
Mr. Foley provided an update on the status of the recruitment efforts for some senior leadership positions.
Quick, Leonard, Kieffer, International, Inc. is working on the recruitment efforts for the System-wide positions
of Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information Officer, and Chief Medical Officer. They are also recruiting for
the position of Chief Nursing Officer for Stroger Hospital. David Gomez & Associates are working on
recruitment efforts for the System-wide positions of Director of Public Relations and Director of Human
Resources.
For the positions of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information Officer, the following time1ine applies:
Present Candidates:
July 22 nd
1st Round Interviews:
Week of July 27th
nd
2 RoundlFinal Interviews:
Week of August 3rd
For the position of Chief Medical Officer, the following timeline applies:
Present Candidates:
I st Round Interviews:
2nd RoundlFinal Interviews:

August 13th
August 20
August 27th and 28 th

In response to Director Carvalho's question regarding Mr. Foley's experience relating to how the Board is
involved in the recruitment and hiring of senior leadership, Mr. Foley stated that as Chief Executive Officer, he
makes the ultimate decision. However, for the "C Suite" positions, he does like to involve the Board in the
interview process.

Discuss and approve proposed executive/manager hiring policy
Chairman Zopp requested that Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Office of the
State's Attorney, provide background information on the proposed executive/manager hiring policy.

 REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 28, 2009
PAGE 3

Ms. Reidy began by stating that under the Bureau of Health Services, the Cook County Board President had
authority on a number of positions that were exempt from the Shakman Decree. This essentially means that the
President could consider political factors when filling these positions. The enabling Ordinance which
established the Cook County Health and Hospitals System delegated the hiring/firing responsibility for those
positions to the System Board.
The System Board's policy is to get the best qualified individual, regardless of politics. However, they realized
that procedures needed to be set with regard to the approximately 160 positions that were previously Shakman­
exempt. The new term for these positions is "ExecutivelManagerial." She pointed out that the System Board
previously approved a hiring policy for Shakman-covered positions; this proposed policy is a truncated version
which allows flexibility for those positions with significant executive and managerial responsibilities. The
proposed policy is modeled after a process that Shakman attorneys have already accepted for the City of
Chicago, for what they call "senior management/non-Shakman" positions. She added that there is a section
called "Outside Resources" in the proposed System policy, which is not contained in the City's process. This
section acknowledges that the System can use a search firm as part of this process.
Upon completion of the Committee's review of this document, Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney
and Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Office of the State's Attorney, will tender the final document to
Roger Fross, one of the Shakman attorneys, for a response. There may be changes to the document as a result of
input received from Mr. Fross; the document would then become part of the Shakman Consent Decree.
Director Carvalho inquired whether this policy would restrict the Chief Executive Officer's abilities to recruit
for these positions.
Laura Lechowicz Felicione, Special Counsel to Cook County Board President Todd H. Stroger, responded that
the proposed policy does allow the ability to recruit, but the candidates must submit their application through the
process like the other applicants. She added that they are hoping to begin using an online application system,
similar to the City of Chicago's system for senior management.
Ms. Reidy stated that the policy covers search firm recruitment, however she will go back to make it clear that
individual recruitment is allowable.
Discussion continued on the types of positions considered ExecutivelManagerial, and the procedures that would
be used under the proposed policy.
Chairman Zopp inquired whether Mr. Foley has received and reviewed the list of positions.
Ms. Reidy stated that Ms. Lechowicz-Felicione and Mr. Small had prepared the list of positions and had
tendered a copy of it to Mr. Foley. Based upon the discussion that has taken place at this meeting, she stated
this list of positions could be reviewed.
Chairman Zopp stated that there needs to be a provision to protect the search f1lll1 screening of candidates. She
requested clarification on that point. Additionally, she asked whether the search firms would require the
candidates to fill out a standard application, in addition to submitting a resume.
On the question regarding filling out standard applications, Ms. Reidy responded aff1lll1atively. After further
discussion of the issue, it was determined that the fmal candidate chosen for the position would fill out the
standard application. Ms. Lechowicz-Felicione noted that this is the process that was followed when the current
Chief of the Cook County Bureau of Human Resources, Joseph Sova, was recruited and hired.

 REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 28, 2009
PAGE 4

Ms. Reidy concluded by stating that the revisions discussed at this meeting would be made to the proposed
policy, after which the concept document will be presented to the Shakman attorneys for a response.
In response to Board Chairman Batts' question of whether a formal vote was needed, Ms. Reidy stated that it
was not necessary at this time.

Discussion of Personnel Matters.
Update on labor negotiations.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), et seq., which
permits closed meetings for consideration of "collective negotiating matters between the public body and
its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees," and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(l), which
permits closed meetings for consideration of "the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body,
including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity."
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Adjournment

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn.
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

THE MOTION CARRIED

 