REPORT OF THE
HUMAN RESOURCES CONINIITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 23, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors David Carvalho, Quin R. Golden, Sister
Sheila Lyne, RSM and Jorge Ramirez (5)

Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts (Ex-Officio)

Absent: None (0)
Also Present: Directors Hon. Jerry Butler and Heather E. O'Donnell, ID, LLM

David Barker, MD Chief Medical Officer, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center;
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau,
Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Richard Keen, MD Chairman, Department of
Surgery, John H. Stroger, Jr. HosPital of Cook County; Maurice Lemon, MD, MPH
Chief Medical Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Cecil Marchand 
Associate Administrator, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Enrique Martinez, MD 
Chief Medical Officer, Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook
County; Elizabeth Reidy Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State's
Attorney; Deborah Santana Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board; David R. Small 
Interim Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health. and Hospitals System; Sidney
Thomas Chief Operating Of?cer, Provident Hospital of Cook County

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System met pursuant to notice on Thursday, October 23, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 AM. at Stroger
Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Human Resources Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report,
the recommendations follow. 

Roll Call

Deborah Santana, of the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members and it was
determined that a quorum was present.

 

OLD BUSINESS

Update and discussion of pending information requests.

Chairman Zopp stated that there were only a few inform ation requests that were pending. She stated that
with regard to one follow-up item, she will contact the County?s Compliance Administrator, Judge Julia
Nowicki, to make the arrangements for Judge Nowicki's presence at a future Committee meeting. She
asked David R. Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System,
to update the Committee on any other pending requests.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 23, 2003

PAGE:

Mr. Small stated that he has received the information to respond to one request (regarding methodology
on salary upgrades and comparisons that include bene?ts related to pensions and malpractice insurance);
this will be distributed.

Additionally, Mr. Small stated that he was working on the development of two reports. The ?rst report
will be an ongoing reporting on the status of requests to hire. The second report will provide the status of
all current vacant positions in the System.

Chairman Zopp asked Board Chairman Batts to update the Committee on the meetings that have taken
place with the County and the actions that took place at the County Board and Finance Committee on
October 

Board Chairman Batts stated that the System?s budget was sent to the Finance Committee and the
schedule for hearings was set. The Commissioners discussed the enabling Ordinance; there appeared to
be some disagreement on the procedure that will be used to approve the System?s budget. Additionally,
he stated that there were several questions related to the System?s capital request. He then provided an
overview of the meetings that were held with the individual Commissioners; there are four
Commissioners remaining with whom they have not yet met.

Board Chairman Batts stated that the Board must make an adjustment to the budget in the order of $20-25
million; this will re?ect the not change of jobs. Additional information on this adjustment is expected to
be received when the County?s Finance Committee meets on October 

Further discussion took place on the subject of the ongoing budget discussions and the budgetary
?exibility needed by the System Board to prioritize and organize the System?s needs.

Director Golden inquired on the status of the timeline for the County?s electronic human resources
system.

Cecil Marchand, Associate Administrator at John H. Stroger, .lr. Hospital of Cook County, responded that
Jonathan Rothstein, Deputy Chief of the County's Bureau of Human Resources, had indicated that
between the end of November and beginning of December was targeted. Mr. Marchand stated that he
will follow up with Joseph Sova, Chief of the County's Bureau of Human Resources, to find out whether
that target time was still anticipated.

Discussion followed on the subject of recruitment of a head of the System?s human resources. Questions
were raised on whether a recruitment firm?s assistance was needed. Mr. Small provided information on
the steps that have been taken, such as the development of the position description. Chairman Zopp
indicated that if the recruitment process for the permanent Chief Executive Of?cer goes as planned and an
individual is hired within the timeframe that has been discussed, she preferred that the permanent Chief
Executive Of?cer would be given the opportunity to choose the leadership team (which would include the
head of the System?s human resources). In the meantime, Mr. Small would continue the search efforts for
this position so that the permanent Chief Executive Officer would have vetted candidates from which to
choose.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 23, 2008

PAGE 3

On the subject of diversity of candidates, Director Golden requested a list of the professional
organizations with whom the System shares information on recruitment efforts and positions available.

Mr. Small responded that he would provide the information].
In response to a question from Director Lyne with regard to the salary range planned for the position, Mr.

Small stated that he would provide the information to the Cummittecz. He believed that it was in the
median range of the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council salary survey for 2008.

 

Review and discuss Rules 8. 9 and 13 from both the County of Cook'Personnel Rules
and the separate oolicv for physicians and dentists.

The Committee discussed Rules 8, 9 and 13 from both the County of Cook Personnel Rules and the
separate policy for physicians and dentists.

Chairman Zopp noted the differences in discipline and grievance policies between the collective
bargaining agreements. She requested that a summary of the differences be compiled for the Committee's
review/3. She asked Mr. Small to discuss the request further with her; the services of a volunteer or law
student could possibly be found to perform the task.

The subject of af?liation agreements was discussed; differences between the aspect of dual employment
and physician activities as a result of af?liation agreements were provided. Chairman Zopp requested
that Mr. Small work with Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the
State?s Attorney, to review and possibly revise the language with regard to affiliation relationships and
dual employment?.

The Committee had a discussion on dual employment. Dr. David Barker, Chief Medical Of?cer
of the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center; Dr. Richard Keen, Chairman of the Department of Surgery at
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County; Dr. Maurice Lemon, Chief Medical Officer of John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County; Dr. Enrique Martinez, Chief Medical Of?cer of the Ambulatory
and Community Health Network of Cook County; and Sidney Thomas, Chief Operating Of?cer of
Provident Hospital of Cook County provided suggestions and additional information on the subject. It
was noted that Dr. Jack Raba, Interim Chief Medical Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System, was expected to discuss the issue at a future Human Resources Committee meeting.

Director Carvalho requested information on the following: the number of full-time and part-time active
physicians, the number of physician grievances, and the number of active physicians with a current dual
employment form in their ?le. Additionally, Director Golden requested that the Strategic Planning
Committee receive this infomations.

Mr. Small reminded the Committee that the physician productivity model and articulation of expectations
was one of the three primary areas that the Interim Chief Medical Of?cer was expected to address when
the Board decided to create the position. Dr. Raba would provide an update on this and other issues at
one of the next Human Resources Committee meetings?.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 23, 2008

PAGE 4

Chairman Zopp requested that Rule 13.03, Section be revised to remove the word ?seriously-i.?

After the Committee?s discussion, Chairman Zopp requested that Mr. Small and his team further review
these policies and develop additional recommendations; a single set of policies incorporating physicians,
dentists and non-physician staff, inclusive of the recommendations made in Committee, should be
presented to the Committee at a later date.

 

Update on labor negotiations.

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Golden, moved to recess the regular session and convene
into closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120f2(c)(2), et seq.,
which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?Collective negotiating matters between the
public body and its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules
for one or more classes of employees.? THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY. 

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene
into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED 

 

NEW BUSINESS

Presentation bv Dr. Enrique Martinez on the Diversity Council

Dr. Enrique Martinez, Chief Medical Of?cer of the Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook
County, provided the members with a presentation on the Diversity Council. (See Attachment ii I.)

Discussion followed; it was determined that the information presented should be updated and presented to
the Committee. Chairman Zopp asked Dr. Martinez to assist Mr. Small in the compilation of the
informations.

 

Public Comments

Chairman Zopp asked the Secretary to call upon any registered public speakers.

Ms. Santana responded that there were none.

 

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEEOF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 23, 2008

PAGE 5



Director Lyne, seconded by Director Carvalho, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETDIG ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the

Cook any Health and Hospitals System

Ms. Andrea L. Zot??l?hairman

Attest:

75

/Mat_t@v B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

 

The followin was re nested or was indicated as a follow-u item at this meetin 

 

1 Request for a list of the professional organizations with whom the System shares information on
recruitment efforts and positions available. On page 3. (David Small)

2 Request for information on salary range planned for the position of the System's head of human
resources. On page 3. (David Small)

3 Request for a summary of differences in discipline and grievance policies between the collective
bargaining agreements. On page 3. (David Small)

4 (Reminder) Request for David Small to work with Elizabeth Reidy, to review and possibly revise the
language with regard to af?liation relationships and dual employment. On page 3.

5 Request for the following information: the number offull-time and part-time active physicians, the
number of physician grievances, and the number of active physicians with a current dual employment
form in their ?le. Additionally, Director Golden requested that the Strategic Planning Committee receive
this information. On page 3. (David Small)

5 Request to provide update on several issues at one of the next Human Resources Conunittee meetings,
including an update on the issue of producing a physician productivity model and the articulation of
expectations for physicians. On page 3. (Dr. Jack Reba}

7 Request that Rule 13.03, Section (110(2) be revised to remove the word ?seriously." On page 4. (David
Small)

3 Request that information regarding diversity be updated and presented to the Committee. On page 4.
(Dr. Enrique Martinez and David Small)

 Board HR Committee Presentation 100.3!2003
01d Diversity Committee

I. Diversity Task FDICB Members

2. Diversity Task Force Statement, Mission! Role

Data Collection

4. Future Direction

10.?

11.

Diversity Task Force
Statement Concerning Medical Staff Representation

The Cook County Bureau of Health Services Diversity Task Force recognizes
the importance of achieving cultural and linguistic competence to care for the 
diverse patient population, and is committed to achieving a diverse, representative staff
that well serves patient populations? needs. The is committed to hiring, retaining.
and promoting under-represented medical staff.

The Diversity Task Force supports and recommends the recruitment and hiring of high
quality representative medical to care for the diverse patient population.
The Diversity Task Force supports an open dialogue to raise collective awareness,
understanding, and support for the commitment to diversity and egual

opportunity.

The Diversity Task Force believes that cultural and linguistic skills and competence 
important considerations in the context of the recruitment and hiring of medical staff.

The Diversity Task Force will broadly disseminate diversity data.

The Diversity Task Force will meet with the Chief Operating Of?cers and Medical
Directors of the Af?liates and offer their guidance and assisiance toward
addressing medical staff diversity issues.

All divisions will prepare a report every six months (due November 30th and May
31st) to document the progress in staff representation. The report will be prepared on a
spreadsheet made available by the Diversity Task Force. The report is to include the

number of actual vacancies within occupational categoryr or iob title, and efforts in

recruitment, retention, and promotion of underrepresented minorities. The report may
also include a description of other efforts. such as policies or committees established to
address medical staff diversity.

The Diversity Task Force will report to Bureau Management every six months. -

The Diversity Task Force expects every departmentidivisions to discuss the
importance and need to recruitfhire representative staff with their staff regularly at their
departmenti'division meetings.

The Diversity Task Force expects that positions posted for hiring or advertised will
include the following (or something similar): "Cultural and linguistic skills to care for

African-American and Hispanic patients is highly desirable."

The Diversity Task Force expects that will honor the

'County af?rmative action policy and the Department of Health and Human Services

guidelines on staff representation, and will grant interviews to all quali?ed
underrepresented minorities. 

The Diversity Task Force-'wil'l'identify: with low staff
representation. In conjunction with the medical directorand chief operating of?cer of the

Bureau entity, the Diversity Task Force will expect them to develop an action plan to
correct their staff representation shortcomings.

12. The Diversity Task Force expects continued progress from the residency and fellowship
programs in staff representation, with annual summer reports made by the program
directors to address this matter sent to the Diversity Task Force. Residencies and
fellowship programs have the respOnsibility to hire staff with cultural and linguistic skills
to care for our patient population

13. The Diversity Task Force sUpports the J1 waiver process to enhance recruitment of
highly skilled and competent physicians, to be used on a case-by?case basis for
candidates with representative cultural and linguistic skills We also support the H1 visa
candidates with these skills.

14. The Diversity Task Force will collaborate in developing pipeline programs with
organizations and schools, and expects the Bureau hubs and medical staff to do the
same.

Diversity Task Force MissionfRoIe

. The Cook County Bureau of Health recognizes that most of the patients
seen in our health care facilities are from minority and econOmically 
disadvantaged ethnic groups. Health disparities affecting people of color in a
negative way are well established in the literature. Organizations like the Of?ce
of Minority Health of the Department of Health and Human Services recognize
that in order to address these disparities, culturally competent services delivered
by a diverse workforce are critical components. Further, federal law demands
linguistically speci?c services to be available. The is committed to
providing our patient population with culturally and linguistically competent care.
. The will develop and implement a strategy to recruit, retain and promote
quali?ed, diverse and-culturally competent administrative, clinical, and support
staff that are trained and quali?ed to address the needs of the'racial and ethnic
communities served. 
. The will develop a comprehensive management strategy to address
culturally and linguistically services, including ongoing education and
training of staff. 
. The will develop guidelines and recommendations for staff
representative goals for the medical departments, and is supportive of all legal
requirements and the mission of the Bureau. .
. The will work to ensure that the hiring process is not a barrier to
recruitment and hiring of minorities. .
. The will encourage and sponsor programs to educate under represented
groups to enter the health care professions, such as giving seminars in schools and
summer job programs for young people.
. The will monitor and track staff representation to re?ectand address the
needs of the medically underserved population of Cook County.

ALL cw/?Is

yet/5f: mm.-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

)Le a:
.REPORTA
August 2005 Diversity Report (revised 8725705}
Numbers RaceiEtlInicity . . .
- Hispanic Black Asian ,Whlte Multi-Racial Other Unknown Total
ACHN Cermak CORE Provident . 13B
Stroger - .
Anesthesiology Emergency MedicineFamily Practice Pathology Pediatrics Radiology Trauma Medicine Subspecialiies internal Medicine Surgery All StrogerTotal 473
Grand Total 44' 805
Percenis RaceiEthnicity . . . . . . .
- Hispanic Black Asian ?White Multi-Racial Other Unknown
ACHN 12.3% 35.4% 20.0% 27.7% 0.0% 0.0% 4.5%
0.0% 23.8% 33.3% 23.8% 14.3% 0.0% 4.3%
Cermak 5.5% 19.4% 9.7% 51.5% 0.0% 12.9% . 0.0%
CORE 15.7% 33.3% 15.7% 15.7% 0.0% 0.0%
OFH 1.5% 5.1% 59.1% 31.5% 0.0% 0.0% 1.5%
Provident 1.4% 44.9% 23.2% 23.2% 0.0% 0.0% 7.2%
Stroger .
Anesthesiology 18.5% 7.4% 14.9% 59.3% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Emergency Medicine 13.0% 4.3% '78.3% 2.2% 0.0% 0.0%
Family Practice 10.0% 25.0% 0.0% 55.0% 0.0% 0:0% 0.0%
oarsyn 95% 14.3% 23.3% 42.9% 0.0% 4.3%
Pathology 12.5% 12.5% 12.5% 37.5% 0.0% 0.0% 25.0%
Pediatrics 2.3% 9.3% 39.5% 34.9% - 0.0% 4.7%
Percent 10.0% 10.0% 20.0% 50-0% 0.0% 0.0% _10.0%
Radiology'F?ercent 0.0% 3.7% 25.9% 70.4% . 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
- Trauma Percent 0.0% 25.0% 37.5% 37.5% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Medicine Subspeci'alties 5.5% 5.5% 15.5% 72.5% . 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Internal Medicine . 2.8% 19.4% 35.1% 40.3% 0.0% 0.0% 1.4% 
Surgery 4.1% 7.2% 10.3% 55.7% 0.0% 1.0% 20.5%
All Siroger - 5.2% 10.9% 19-5% 55.9% 1.3% 0.2% 5.1%
Grand Total 4.3% 19.1% 23.4% 45.3% 1.2% 0.5% 5.5%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OakForest Provident Stroger

 

 

 

 

Asian
I African Amer.
I Caucasian
ii Hispanic
Indian

I Other

 

 

 

 



1-. . . .. 

 

DEPT

TOTAL
STAFF

Out of
Total Staff
NO Ethnic
Info

I Stroger Hospital of Cook County

August 2006Departmentai Diversity Report

 

 

ACHN

95

49

 

Arms

43

19

 

Cerrnak

69

43

 

Core

24

20

 

Emar.
Med

52

1B

 

Fam.
Prac

Path

23

 

Pads

Surg

170

39



80%-

50 9?0-

40%-

211"nu-u . "wur'r. .-.

ACHN Anas Cermak Cora' Emer Fam. Med OB Path Pads

 

African A. Psian El Caucasian Hispanic I Indian omer

 

 

Surg Trauma

 

 

 

Trauma

 

14

 

 

 

 

 

Provident Hospital of Cook County
August 2006 Departmental Diversity Report

 

DEPT

TOTAL
STAFF

Out of
Total Staff 100%-

NO Ethnic
Info 90%-

30%

 

Arms

0 - 70%-

 

Critical
Care

27

5 60%-

 

Emer.
Med

19

50%-
40%-

 

Family
Med

24

10 30%-
20%-

 

IntPads

32

 

Rad

 

 

Surg

 

30

 

 

 

{:23

12

     

int. Med OB Peds Rad

 



Anes Critical Em. Med Fam.
Care Med

 

African Amer I Asian I Caucasian I Hispanic I Indian I Other

 

 

 

  

Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County
August 2006 Departmental Diversity Report

 

DEPT

TOTAL
STAFF

Out of w,
Total Staff 100%" 3;
N0 Ethnic - 
Info - ..

80%-

.

 

ACHN

 

Anes

60%-

 

Cardlo

 

Clin.
Nauru





40% 

 

Emer
Med

13

 

20%- 

 

Empl.
Health41--.. 1 

. :31 A: 

rut.- .21' 

 

 

lnLMed

Rad Rehab urg

 

Mad

ACHN Cardi Clin Em. Em. Int. Med Path Feds
Neuro Med Med 

 

Path

 

 

Pads

:1 Afn'can Amer Asian I Caucasian Hispanic Indian I Other

 

Rad

 

 

 

 

Rehab

 

 

Burg.

 

29

 



 

 

August 2006 Diversity Report

 

 

 

 

 

 

AGHN OakForest Provident Stroger
Asian - 46 43 91
African Amer. 13 . .82 85
Caucasian 17 - 38 53 290
Hispanic 7' 1 1 33
Indian 4 3 3
Other 2 - 4 1E

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Struger Hospital 'Hnusesta??: Diversity Report - 2004-5 Year

 

f==w

 

 

Mm:
mn- an-
Ameri
ml {can

Ethnic Orinin

Gum-rm;
Arned Canal
Rial-i an

 

 

 

Multan

Omar

Spar-Em

main

 

 



 

2;

 


?3

 

 

 

- Munich Omar
Easmm _'Wh?n

 

Omar -

Islander Race TOTAL

 

 



EMERGENCY MED

 

5:

 

 

pl

 

 

 

 

 



1



 

 

 

h?m?ganEommLogg

 

 

 

mummi??



 

 

 

SURGERWCC

 

OPHTH

 



 

HAL

 

 

CDLO RECTAL

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.. .. 

 

 

 

 

 



 



 

 

 

TOTAL

 

 

 

 

39?

 

33 21

100

a .




 Diversity Report 2005: Reported Languages Spoken by Physicians"

Spanish: 107
India languages dialects:
Hindi: 45
Urdu: 24
Gujarati: 9
Punjabi: 8
Marathi 6
Arabic 22
FilipinofTagalog: 19
French: 14
Russian: 11
Polish: 8
Farsi: 8
Greek: . 6
Korean - 6
Italian: 5

Total of physicians in reported: 812

Only languages spoken by at least 5 physicians are reported.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-- Linc! LL11. dear??43 
155er 111/ crawl?Raj.
Lia/:2: '3 ?3 {if} '4 
Raeei?Ethnicity Gaunt Pereent' 
African 2.395 1.24 010? ?1 2 
American lndiani'Alasita Native 16? 0.09
Asian 2.304 1.19 1.3th
Asian-Chinese 816 0.42 Kit??1?: ?Lf. 
. Asian-Filipino 2.209 1.14
Asian-Indian 2.551 1.32
Asian-Japanese 552 0.29
Asian-Korean 25? 0.14 -..
Asian-Pakistani E29 0.32
Asian-Thai 86 0.04 . -
Asian-Vietnamese ?1 0.04 at
BiackIAfrican American 92,742 4?.59 Pl- 0, ?17' - 9 Ct 
0.00
Caribbean 425 0.22 
European 665 0.34 . . pr.
Hispanic?Guatemalan 3.?92 . 1.96 Hfr?mLa'c .32 - 
Hispanic-Mexican 53.183 27.46 . - 
Hispanic-Puerte Rican 2.?54 1.43
Hispanic-South American 1,355 0.90
Latino .550 0.29
Middle Eastern 61? 0.32
Multi-Ethnic - 44 0.02
Multiracial-American lndian White 372 0.19
Multiracial-Asian White 1? 0.01
Multiracial-Black American lnciianiAlas 18 0.01
Multiracial-Black Asian - 8 0.00
. Multiracial- Blaek+ White . 18 0.01 
Multiracial? Other . 37 0.04
Native Islander 62 - 0.03
NULL- 50 0.03
Other single race 8.821 4.55 . .. 2.
Unknown 0.14 ?"32 (a
White 15,198 - 7.85
Total 193,660 100.00

. Instructions for Standard Form 100 (EEO-1) January 2006 I {11? gram? Page 1 of 12

?ne-Sp

The U. 3. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

 

EEO-1 JOINT REPORTING COMMITTEE O.M.B. No. 3046-0007

. Equal Employment OpportUnity Commission
- Of?ce of Federal Contract Compliance Programs Approval EXpires 1? 2009

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, o.c. 20507 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
STANDARD FORM Ioo, REV. January 2005, EMPLOYER INFORMATION REPORT EEO-1
I INSTRUCTION BOOKLET - 

The Employer Information EEO-1 survey is conducted annually under the authority of Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 2000a, et. seq., as amended. All em i ers with 15 or more' 
employees are covered by Title VII and are required to keep empLovment records as specified by .

Commission regulations. Based on the number of employees and federal contract activities, certain
lar em lo required to ?le an EEO-1 report on an annual basis. . -

a overnments, school systems and educational institutions are covered by other employment

 

In the interests of consiStency, uniformity and economy, Standard Form 100 has been jointly
developed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the Of?ce Of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs of the U. S. Department of Labor, as a single form which meets the statistical

needs of both programs. In addition, this form should be a valuable too[ fpccom pagles tO use in

evaluating their own internal programs for insuring equal opportunity.

As stated above, the ?ling of Standard 'Form 100 is required by law; it is not voluntary. Under section 
?09(c) of Title VII, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission may compel an employer to ?le this
form by obtaining an order from the United States District Court.

Under Section 209(a) of Executive Order 11246, the penalties for failure by a federal contractor-or
subcontractor to comply may include termination of the federal government contract and debarme nt
from future federal contracts. - - .

1. WHO MUST FILE
Standard Form IOU must be ?ied by --

(A) All private employers who are: (1) subject to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended,
with 100 or more employees EXCL and local governments, primary and secondary school
systems, institutions of higher education, Indian tribes and tax-exempt private membership clubs other 
than labor organizations; OR (2) subject to Title VII Who have fewer than 100 employees if the
companyis owned or af?liated with another company, or there is centralized ownership, control or

management (such as central control of personnel policies and labor relations) so that the group legally
constitutes a single enterprise, and the entire enterprise employs a total of 100 Or more employees.

em Ionns

. Instructions for Standard Form 100 (EEO-1) January 2006 Page 2 of 12

(B) All federal contractors (private employers), who: (1) are not exempt as provided for by 41 CFR 60?
1.5; (2) have 50 or more employees; and are prime contractors or ?rst-tier subcontractors, and
have a contract, subcontract, or purchase order amounting to $50,000 or more; or serve as a
depository of government funds in any amount, or ls a ?nancial institution which is an issuing and
paying agent for U.S. Savings Bonds and Notes. 

Only those establishments located in the District of Columbia and the 50 states are required to submit
Standard Form 100. No reports should be filed for establishments in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or
other American Protectorates.

2. HOW TO FILE

Note: Submission of EEO-1 data through the EEG-1 Onffne Filing System or as an
electronically transmitted data file is strongly preferred. See paragraph 6, EEO-1 Alternate
Reporting Formats. - 

Single-establishment employers, employers doing business at only one establishment in one
location must complete a single EEO-1 online data record or submit a single EEO-1 paper report.

Multi-estahlishment employers, employers doing business at more than one establishment,
must complete online: a report covering the principal or headquarters office; (2) a separate report
for EACH establishment employing 50 or more persons; and (3) a separate report (Type 8 record) for
each establishment employing fewer than 50 employees, OR an Establishment List (Type 6 record),
showing the name, address, and total employment for each establishment employing fewer than 50
persons, including a Type 6 employment data grid that combines all employees working at
establishments fewer than 50 employees by race, sex, and job category. For the EEO-1
online application, keyed employment data automatically transfers to the overali Consolidated Report.

 

The total number of employees indicated on the headquarters report, PLUS the establishment reports,
PLUS the list of establishments employing fewer than 50 employees, MUST equal the total number of
employees shown on the Consolidated Report.

Employment data for mold-establishment companies, including parent corporations and their subsidiary .
holdings, must report all employees working at each company establishment or subsidiary 
establishment. For thepurposes of this report, the term parent corporation refers to any corporation

which owns all or the majority stock of another corporation so that the latter relates to it as a
subsidiary. - .

3. WHEN TO FILE 

This annual report must be ?led not later than September 30. Employment ?gures from any pay period 
in July through September may be used. -

4. WHERE To FILE [Paper form(s) new]
Mali one copy to the address Indicated in the annual survey mailout memorandum.
5. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION AND SPECIAL PROCEDURES

An em ployer'who claims that preparation or the filing of Standard Form 100 would create undue 
hardship may apply to the Commission for a special reporting procedure. In such cases,'the employer
must submit in writing a detailed alternative 'prOposal for compiling and reporting information to: The
EEO-1 Coordinator, EEOC-Survey Division, 1801 Street, NW, Washington, DC 20507.

I 513112006 

. Instructions for Standard Form 100 (EEO-IJ-Janualy 2006 . Page 3 or 12

Only those special procedures approved in writing by the Commission are authorized. Such
authorizations remain in effect until noti?cation of cancellation is given. All requests for information
should be sent to the address above. 

6. EEO-1 ALTERNATE REPORTING FORMATS

reporting is an electronic, online application. Pursuant to the Government Paperwork Elimination
Act of 1998, we STRONGLY recommend that EEO-1 reports he submitted via the EEO-1 Onllne 
System, or as an electronically transmitted data ?le. A copy of the prescribed EEO-1 data ?le format
is available at the websiteaddress in the survey mailout memorandum; or by calling the telephone
number or writing to the address in the survey mailout memorandum. Paper EEO-1 forms be
generated on request only. in extreme cases where Internet access is not avallable to the employer.
An EEO-1 report submitted on paper must be prepared following the directions in paragraph 2, HOW
TO FILE. - -

7. CONFIDENTIALITY

All reports and information from individual reports will be kept con?dential, as required by Section 709
of Title VII. Only data aggregating-information by industry or area, In such a way as not to reveal
any particular employers statistics, will be made public. The prohibition against disclosure mandated by
Section 209(e) does not apply to the Of?ce of Federal Contract Compliance Programs and contracting
agencies of the federal government which require submission of SF 100 pursuant to Executive Order
11246. Reports from prime contractors and subcontractors doing business with the federal government
may not be con?dential under Executive Order 11246.

e. ESTIMATE or BURDEN

Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three and ?ve tenths
(3.5) hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources,
gathering and maintaining the data needed and completing and reviewing the collection of information.

A response is de?ned as one survey form. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other
aspect of this collection of information, Including suggestions for reducing this burden to:

The EEOC Clearance Officer -

Of?ce of the Chief Financial Of?cer and Administrative Services -- Room 2100
1801 Street, N.W. 

Washington, D.C. 2050?

AND

Paperwork Reduction Project (3046-000?)
Of?ce of Management and Budget
Washington, D.C. 20503 -

The full text of the OMB regulations may be found at 5 CFR Part 1320. PLEASE DO NOT- SEND YOUR
COMPLETED REPORT TO EITHER OF THESE ADDRESSES.

EEO-1 Terms Applica hie To All Reporting Formats

Base of Report (Status Code)

1 Single-establishment company

Mold?establishment company

. 

. Instructions for Standard Form 100 (EEO-1) January 2006 I Page 4 at 12

2 Consolidated Report (Required)

3 Headquarters Report (Required)

4 Establishment Report (50 or more employees)
6 establishment List (Option 1)

8 Establishment Report (less than 50 employees) (Option 2)

Company Identification

Refers to the company name and address of the headquarters of?ce of the multi-establishment
company (Report Types 2 and or the establishment name and address. 

Employers Who Are Required Io File

Questions 1, 2_and 3 MUST be answered by all employers. If the answer to Question C-3 is Yes, please
enter the companys Dun and Bradstreet identification number if the company has one. If the answer is
Yes to question 1, 2, or 3, complete the entire form. Otherwise skip to Section G.

Employment Data

Employment data must include ALL full-time and part-time employees who were employed during the
selected payroll period, except those employees speci?cally excluded as indicated In the Appendix.
Employees must be counted by sex and race or ethnic category for each of the ten occupational
categories and subcategories. See Appendix for detailed explanation of job categories and race and
ethnic identification. .

Every employee must be accounted for in one and ONLY one of the categories in ColumnsA thru N.

Occupational DataEmployment data must be reported by job category. Report each employee in only
one job category. In order to simplify and standardize the method of reporting, all jobs are considered
as belonging in one of the broad occUpations shown in the table. To assist you in determining where to
place your jobs within the occupational categories, a description of job categories is in the EEO-1 Job
Classi?cation Guide or you may consult the EEO-l-Census Codes Cross Walk on the Commission's

web site. For-further clari?cation, you may wish to consult the Alphabetical and Classi?ed Indices of 
Industries and Occupations (2000 Census) published by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Census .
Bureau.

Establishment Information

 

.The major activity should be suf?ciently descriptive to identify the industry and product produced or
service provided. If an establishment is engaged in more than one activity, describe the activity at
which the greatest number of employees work. . - -

. The description of the major activity indicated on 'the Headquarters Report (Type must
reflect the dominant economic activity of the company in which the greatest number of
employees are engaged. .

Rem

Includein this section any remarks, explanations, or other pertinent information regarding this report.

- . 55112006

- Instructions for Standard Form -1 00 January 2006 - Page 5 of 12

Certification

If all reports have been completed at headquarters, the authorized of?cial should check Item 1 and
sign the Consolidated Report only. If the reports have been completed by the individual establishments,
the authorized of?cial should check Item 2 and sign the establishment report. -

APPENDIX
1. DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL EMPLOYERS
a. "Commission" refers to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.

b. refers to the Of?ce of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, US. Department of Labor,
established to implement Executive Order 11246, as amended.

c. "Joint Reporting Committee" Is the committee representing the Commission and OFCCP for the
purpose of administering this report system. . 

of. "Employer" under Section 701(b), Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, means a
person engaged in an industry- affecting commerce who has ?fteen or more employees for each ..
working day In each of twenty or more calendar weeks in the current or preceding calendar year, and
any agent of such a person, but such term does not include the United States, a corporation wholly
owned by the govern ment'of the United States, an-Indian tribe, or any department, or agency of the
District of Columbia subject by statute to procedures of the competitive service (as de?ned In section
2102 of Title 5 of the United States Code), or a bona ?de private membership club (other than a labor
organization) which is exempt from taxation under Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954;. OR any person or entity subject to Executive Order 11246 who is a federal 
contractor or subcontractor at any tier (including a bank or other establishment serving .as a depository
of federal government funds, or an issuing and paying agent of U.S. Savings Bonds and Notes, or a
holder of a federal government bill of lading) or a federally-assisted construction prime contractor or
subcontractor at any tier. 

e. "Employee" means any individual on the payroll of an'employer who is an employee for purposes of

the employers withholding of Social Security taxes except insurance sales agents who are considered to
be employees for such purposes solely because of the provisions of' 26 USC 3121 (3) (B) (the
Internal Revenue Code). Leased employees are included in this de?nition. Leased Employee means a
permanent employee provided by an employment agency for a fee to an outside company for which the
employment agency handles all personnel tasks including payroll, staf?ng, bene?t payments and 
compliance reporting. The employment agency shall, therefore, include leased employees in its EEO-1
report. The term employee SHALL NOT include persons who_are hired on a casual basis for a speci?ed
time, orfor the duration of a speci?ed job (for example, persons at a construction site whose 
employment- relationship is expected to terminate with the end of thelemployees work. at the site);
persons temporarily employed in any industry other than construction, such as temporary office 
workers, mariners, stevedores, lumber yard workers, etc, who are hired through a hiring hall or other
referral arrangement, through an Employee contractor or agent, or by some individual hiring
arrangement, or persons (EXCEPT leased employees) on the payroll of an employment agency who
are referred by such agency for work to be performed on the premises of another em ployer'under that
employers direction and control. 

It is the opinion of the General Counsel of the Commission that Section-702, Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, as amended, does not authorize a complete exemption of religious organizations from the
coverage of the Act or of the reporting requirements of-the Commission. The exemption for religious 
organizations applies to discrimination on the basis of religion. Therefore, since the Standard Form?lo?
does not provide for information as to the religion of employees, religious organizations must report all
information required by this form.~ . -

SIS 1(2006

1 Instructions for Standard Form 100 (EEO-1) January 2006 Page 6 of 12

f. "Commerce" means trade, traf?c, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among
the several States; or between aState and any place outside thereof; or within the District of
Columbia, or a possession of the United States;'or between points In the same State but through a
point outside thereof. -

9. "Industry Affecting Commerce" means any activity, business or industry In commerce or In which a
labor dispute would hinder or obstruct commerce or the free flow of commerce and includes any
activity or Industry affecting commerce within the meaning of the Labor Management Reporting and
Disclosure Act of 1959. Any employer of 15 or more persons Is presumed to be In an industry affecting
commerce. -

h. "Establishment" Is an economic unit which produces goods or services,'such as a'factory, of?ce,
store, or mine. In most instances, the establishment Is at a single physical location and is engaged in
one, or predominantly one, type of economic aCtivity. (de?nition adapted from the North American
Industry crassf?catfon System, 2002). . 

Units at different physical locations, even though engaged In the same kind of business operation, must
be reported as separate establishments. For locations Involving construction, transportation,
communications, electric, gas, and sanitary services, all and gas ?eids', and similar types of physically
dispersed industrial activities, however, It Is not necessary to list separately each individUai site,
project, ?eld, line, etc., unless it Is treated by you as a separate legal entity. For these types of
activities, list as establishments only those relatively permanent main or branch of?ces, terminals,
stations etc., which are either: directly responsible for supervising such dispersed activities; or 
the base from which personnel and equipment operate to carry out these activities. (Where these
dispersed activities cross State lines, at least one such establishment should bellisted for each State
involved.) 

i. "Major Activity"_means the major product or group of products produced or handled, or services
rendered by the reporting..unit manufacturing airplane parts, retail sales of of?ce furniture) in 
terms of the activity at which the greatest number of all-employees work. The description includes the
type of product manufactured or sold or the type of service provided.

2. DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE ONLY TO GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS SUBJECT TO
EXECUTIVE ORDER 11246 

a. "Order" means Executive Order 11246, as amended.
b. "Contract" means any government contract or any feder- ally-assisted construction ?contract.

c. "Prime Contractor" means any employer having a-govern ment contract or any federally-assisted
construction contract, or any employer serving as a depository of federal >government-funds.

d. "Subcontractor" means any employer having a contract with a prime contractor or another
subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for the performance of a government contract or
federally assisted construction contract. - -

e. "Contracting Agency" means any department, agency and establishment In the executive branch of
the government, Including any wholly-owned government corporation, which enters into contracts.

f. "Administering Agency" means any department, agency and establishment In the executive branch of?
the government, including any wholly-owned government corporation, which administers a program
involving federally-assisted construction contracts. 

3. RESPONSIBILITIES OF PRIME CONTRACTORS

5/31/2006

- Instructions for Standard Form 100 January 2006 Page 7 of 12_

a. At the time of an award of a subcontract subject to these reporting requirements, the prime
contractor shall inform the subcontractor of its responsibility to submit annual EEO-1 employment data
in accordance with these instructions. - -

b. If prime contractors are required by their Contracting Of?cer or subcontractors by their prime
contractors, to submit noti?cation of ?ling, they shall do so by ordinary correspondence. However, such
noti?cation is not required by and should not be sent to the Joint Reporting Committee.

4. RACE AND ETHNIC IDENTIFICATION

Self-i is the preferred method of identifying the race and ethnic information necessary for
the EEO-1 report. Employers are required to attempt to allow employees to use self?identification to

complete the EEO-1 report. If an employee de es to em ioyment records

(identification may be used.

Where records are maintained,' it is recommended that they be kept separately from the employees
basic personnel ?le or other records available ecisions.

 

Race and ethnic designations as used by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission do not denote
scientific definitions of anthropological origins. De?nitions of the race and ethnicity categories are as
follows: 

Hispanic or Lati - A person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, Smith or Central American, or other
pan 5 culture or origin regardless of race. - -

White (Not Hispanic or Latino) - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, 
the Middle East, or We. 

Hispanic or Latino) - A person having origins in any of the black
racial groups of Africa. - . . . 

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander (Not HiSpanic or Latino) - A person having origins in
any of the peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, .or othei' Pacific Islands. . 

Asian (Not Hispanic or Latino) A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far

East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian Subcontinent, Including, for example, Cambodia, China, Ind ia,

Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam.

American Indian or Alaska Native (Not Hispanic or Latino) - A person having origins in any'of 
the original peoples 0f Win (Including Central America), and-who maintain tribal
af?liation or community attachment. . - -

fwo or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) All persons who identify with more than one-of the
above ?ve races. - 

Instructions fol-assigning employees into the race [ethnic categories:

Hispanic or Latino - Include?all employees who answer YES to the question, Are you Hispanic or
Latino. Report all Hispanic males in Column A and Hispanic females in Column B.

White (Not Hispanic or Latino) Include all employees who identify as White males in Column 
and as White. females in Column 1. . - -

Black or African American (Not Hispanic or Latino)- Include all employees who identify as Black

. 58112006

  
 
 

- Instructions for Standard Form 100 (EEO-1) January 2006 . Page 3 of 12

males in Column and as Black females in Column J.

'Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander (Not Hispanic or Latino) - Include all employees who
Identify as Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander males in Column and as Native Hawaiian or
Other, Paci?c Islander females in Column K.

Asian (Not Hispanic or Latino) - Include all employees who identify as Asian males in Column and
as Asian females in Column L. - -

American Indian or Alaska Native (Not HiSpanic or Latino) - Include all employees who identify
as American Indian or Alaska Native males In Column and as American Indian or Alaska Native
females in Column M. 

Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) - Report all male employees who Identify with more
than one of the above '?ve races in Column and all female employees who identify with more than
one of the above ?ve races in Column N.

As to the method of collecting data, the basic principles for ethnic and racial self?identi?cation for
purposes of the EEO-1 report are: . .

(1) Offer employees the opportunity to self- identify

(2) Provide a statement about the voluntary nature of this inquiry for employees. For example,

language such as the following may be used (employers may adapt this language):

  
  
  
 
 

"The employer is subject to certain governmental recordkeeping and reporting requirements for the. -
administration of civil rights laws and reg ulation's. In order to comply with these laws, the employer
invites employees to voluntarily self-identify their race or ethnicity. Submission of this information ?is
voluntary and refusal to provide it will not sobject you to any adverse treatment. The information
obtained will be kept confidential and may only be used in accordance with the provisions of applicable
laws, executive orders, and regulations, including those that require the information to be summarized
and reported to the federal government for civil rights enforcement. When reported, data will not

identify any 
5. DESCRIPTION OF JOB CATEGORIES

The major job categories are listed below, including a brief description of the skills and training
required for occupations in that category and examples of the job titles that ?t each category. The
examples shown below are illustrative and not intended 'to be exhaustive of all job titles in a job .
category. These job categories are primarily'based on the average skill level, knowledge, and

responsibility Involved in each occupation within the job category.

The Of?cials and Managers category as a whole is to be divided into the following two subcategories:
ExecutivefSenior Level Officials and Managers and Firsthid Level Of?cials and Managers. These .
subcategories are intended to mirror the employers own well established hierarchy of management

positions. Small employers who may not have two well-de?ned hierarchical steps of management
should report their management employees in the appropriate categories.

Executive/Senior Levelr Officials and Managers. Individuals who plan, direct and formulate
policies, set strategy and provide the overall direction of enterprisesforganizations for the development
and delivery of products or services, within the. parameters approved by boards of directors or other
governing bodies. Residing in the highest levels of organizations, these executives plan, direct or
coordinate activities with the support of'subordlnate executives and staff managers. They include, in
larger organizations, those individuals within two reporting levels of the CEO, whose responsibilities
require frequent interaction with the CEO. Examples of these kinds of managers are: chief executive

. 5f31l2006~ 

. Instructions for Standard Form 100 (EEO-1) January 2006 - Page 9 of 12

of?cers, chief operating of?cers, chief ?nancial of?cers, line of business heads, presidents or executive
vice presidents of functional areas or Operating groups, chief information of?cers, chief human
resources of?cers, chief marketing of?cers, chief legal of?cers, management directors and managing
partners.

First/Mid Level Officials and Managers. Individuals who serve as managers, other than those who
serve as ExecutivefSenior Level Officials and Managers, including those who oversee and direct the
delivery of products, services or functions at group, regional or divisional levels of organizations. These
managers receive directions from the ExecutivefSenior Level management and typically lead major
business units. They implement policies, programs and directives of executive/senior management
through subordinate manage rs and within. the parameters set by ExecutivefSenlor Level management.
Examples of these kinds of managers are: vice presidents and directors, group, regional or divisional
controllers; treasurers; human resources, information systems, marketing, and operations managers.
The Firsthid Level Of?cials and Managers subcategory also includes those who report directly to
middle managers. These individuals serve at functional, line of business segment or branch levels and
are responsible for directing and executing the day-to-day operational objectives of
enterprises/Urgenizations, conveying the directions of higher level of?cials and managers to
subordinate personnel and, in some instances, directly supervising the activities of exempt and non-
exempt personnel. Examples of these kinds of managers are: first-line managers; team managers; unit
managers; operations and production mangers; branch managers; administrative services managers;

- purchasing and transportation managers; storage and distribution managers; call center or customer
service managers; technical support managers; and brand or product mangers.

Professionals. Most jobs in this category require bachelor and graduate degrees, andfor professional
certification. In some instances, comparable experience may establish a persons quali?cations.
Examples of these kinds of positions include: accountants and auditors; airplane pilots?and ?ight
engineers; architects; artists; chemists; computer programmers; designers; dieticians; editors;
engineers;_lawyers; librarians; mathematical scientists; registered nurses; physical
scientists; physicians and surgeons; social scientists; teachers; and surveyor . -

Technicians. Jobs in this category include activities that require applied scienti?c skills, usually
obtained by post secondary education of varying depending on the particular occupation,
recognizing that in some instances additional training, certi?cation, or comparable experience is
required. Examples of these types of positions include: drafters;.emergency medical technicians;
chemical technicians; and broadcast and sound engineering technicians. - -

Saies Workers. These jobs include non-managerial activities that wholly and primarily involve direct
sales. Examples of these types of positions include: advertising sales agents; insurance sales agents;
real estate brokers and sales agents; wholesale sales representatives; securities, commodities, and
?nancial services sales agents; telemarketers; demonstrators; retail salespersons; counter and rental
clerks; and cashiers. 

Administrative Support Workers. These jobs involve non-managerial tasks providing administrative
and support assistance, primarily in of?ce settings. Examples of these types of positions include: of?ce
and administrative SUpport workers; bookkeeping; accounting and auditing clerks; cargo and freight
agents; dispatchers; couriers; data entry keyers; computer Operators; shipping, receiving and traf?c 
clerks; .word processors and typists; proofrea'ders; desktop publishers; and general office clerks.

Craft Workers(formeriy Craft Workers (Skiiled)). Most jobs in this categoryincludes higher skilled
occupations in construction (building trades craft workers and their formal apprentices} and naturai
resource extraction workers. Examples of these types of positions include: bollermakers; brick and 
stone masons; carpenters; electricians; painters (both construction and maintenance); glazlers; 
pipelayers, plumbers, pipe?tters and steam?tters; plasterers; roofers; elevator installers; earth drillers;
derrick operators; oil and gas rotary'driil operators; and blasters and explosive workers. This category 
also. includes occupations related to the installation, maintenance and part replacement of equipment,
machines and tools, such as: automotive mechanics; aircraft mechanics; and electric and electronic

- I 513 119006

. Instructions for Standard Form 100 January 2006 Page 10 of 12

equipment repairers. This category also Includes some production occupations that are distinguished by
the high degree of skill and precision required to perform them, based on clearly defined task 
speci?cations, such as: millwrights; etchers and engravers; tool and die makers; and pattern makers.

Operatives (formerly Operatives Most jobs in this category include intermediate
skilled occupations and include workers who operate machines or factory-related processing
equipment. Most of these occupations do not usually require more than several months of training.
Examples Include: textile machine workers; laundry and dry cleaning workers; photographic process
workers; weaving machine operators; electrical and electronic equipment assemblers; semiconductor
processors; testers, graders and sorters; bakers; and butchers and other meat, poultry and ?sh
processing workers. This category also includes occupations of generally intermediate 'skiil levels that
are concerned with operating and controlling equipment to facilitate the movement of people or
materials, such as: bridge and lock tenders; truck, bus or taxi drivers; industrial truck and tractor
(forklift) operators; parking lot attendants; sailors; conveyor'operators; and hand ?packers and
packagers. 

Laborers and Helpers(formeriy Laborers (Unskilled)). Jobs in this category Include workers with more
limited skills who require only brief training to perform tasks that require little or no independent
judgment. Examples include: production and construction worker helpers; vehicle and equipment
cleaners; laborers; freight, stock and material movers; service station attendants; Construction
laborers; refuse and recyclable materials collectors; septic tank servicers; and sewer pipe cleaners. -

Service Workers. Jobs in this category include food service, cleaning service, personal service, and
protective service activities. Skill may be acquired through formal training, job-related training or direct
experience. Examples of food service positions include: cooks; bartenders; and other food service workers.
Examples of personal service positions include: medical assistants and other healthcare support positions;
hairdressers; ushers; and tranSportation attendants. Examples of cleaning service positions include: cleaners;
janitors; and porters. Examples of protective service positions include: transit and railroad police and ?re ?ghters;
guards; private detectives and investigators. 

6. LEGAL BASIS FOR REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 709(c), TITLE VII, CIVIL RIGHTS ACT CF 196.4, AS AMENDED
Recordkeeping; reports

Every employer, employment agency, and labor organization subject to this title shall (1) make and keep such
records relevant to the determinations of whether unlawful employment practices have been or are being
committed, (2) preserve such records for such periods, and (3) make such reports therefrom as the Commission
shall prescribe by regulation or order, after public hearing, as reasonable, necessary, or appropriate for the
enforcement of this title or, the regulations or orders thereunder. The Commission shall, by regulation, require
each employer, labor organization, and joint labor-management committee subject to this title which controls an
apprenticeship or other training program to maintain such records as are reasonably necessary to carry out the
purposes of this title, including, but not limited to, a list of applicants who wish to participate in such program,
including the chronological order in which applications were received, and to ?imish to-the Commission upon
request, a detailed description of the manner in which persons are selected to participate in the apprenticeship or 
other training program. Any employer, employment agency, labor organization, or joint labor-management
committee which believes that the application to it of any regulation or order issued under this section would
result in undue hardship may apply to the Commission for an exemption from the application of such regulation
or order, and, if such application for an exemption is denied, bring a civil action in the United States District
Court for the district where such records are kept. If the Commission or the court, as the case may he, ?nds that

. the application of the regulation or order to the employer, employment agency, or labor organization in question
would impose an undue hardship, the Commission or the court, as the case may be, may grant appropriate relief.

Ifany person required to comply with the provisions of this subsection fails or refuses to do so, the United States

District Court for the district in which such person is found, resides, or transacts business, shall, upon application

5f31l2006

 Instructions for Standard Form 100 January 2006 Page 11 of 12

of the Commission, or the Attorney General in a-case involving a govemment, governmental agency or political
subdivision, have jurisdiction to issue to such person an order requiring him to comply.

TITLE 29, CHAPTER XIV CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS

I NOTE: Afew aspects of the following regulationswi? need to be revised to conform with the EEO-1 Report to be
used beginning with the 2007 reporting period. .

Subport -- Employer Information Report
?1602.7 Requirement for ?ling of report.

On or before September 30 of each year, every employer that is subject to Title VII of the Civil Rights-Act of
1964, as amended, and that has 100 or more employees, shall ?le with the Commission or its delegate executed
copies of Standard Form 100, as revised (otherwise known as "Employer Information Report in
conformity with the directions set forth in the form and accompanying instructions. Notwithstanding the
provisions of 1602. 14, every such employer shall retain at all times at each reporting unit, or at company or
divisional headquarters, a copy of the most recent report ?led for each-such unit and shall make the same
available if requested by an of?cer, agent, or employee of the Commission under the authority of section 710 of
Title VII. Appropriate copies of Stande Form 100 in blank will be supplied to every employer known to the
Commission to be subject to the reporting requirements, but it is the responsibility of all such employers to obtain
necessary supplies of the form from the Commission or its delegate priorto the ?ling date. -

?1602.8 Penalty for making of will?illy false statements on report.

The making of will?illy false statements on Report EEO-1 is a violation of the United States Code, Title 13,
section 1001, and is punishable by ?neor imprisonment as set forth therein. - 

Commissions remedy for employers failure to ?le report.

Any employer failing or refusing to ?le Report EEO-1 when required to do so may be compelled to ?le by order
of a US. District Court, upon application of the Commission. 

51602. 10 Employers exemption from reporting requirements.

If an employer claims that the preparation or ?ling of the report would create undue hardship," the employer may
apply to the Cbnunission for an exemption from the requirements set forth in this part, according to instruction 5.
If an employer is engaged in activities for which the reporting unit criteria described in section 5 of the 
instructions are not readily adaptable, Special reporting procedures may be required; If an employer seeks to
change the date for ?ling its Standard Form 100 or seeks to change the period for which data are reported, an
alternative reporting date or period may be permitted. In such instances, the employer should so advise the
Commission by submitting to the Commission or its delegate a speci?c written proposal for an alternative
reporting system prior to the date on which'the report is due. . 

1602.11 Additional reporting requirements.

The Commission reserves the right to require reports, other than that designated as the Employer Information 
Report about the employment practices of individual employers or groups of employers whenever, in its

- judgment, special or supplemental reports are necessary to accomplish the purposes of Title VII or the Americans
with'Disabilities Act (ADA). Any system for the requirement of such reports will he established in accordance
with the procedures referred to in section 709(c) of Title VII 01' section 107 of the ADA and as otherwise
prescribed by law. 

- - saloons

 Instructions for Standard Form 100 January 2006 I Page 12 of 12

Subpart C?-Recordkeeping by Employers
?1602. 12 Records to be made or kept.

The Commission has not'adopted any requirement, generally applicable to employers, that records be made or
kept. It reserves the right to impose recordkeeping requirements upon individual employers or groups of
employers subject to its jurisdiction whenever, in its judgment, such records are necessary for the effective
operation of the reporting system or of any special or supplemental reporting system as described above;
or are further required to accomplish the purposes of Title VII or the ADA. Such recordkeeping requirements
will be adopted in accordance with the procedures referred to in section 709(c) of Title VII, or section 107 of the
ADA, and otherwise prescribed by law.

?1602.13 Records as to racial or ethnic identity of employees.

Employers may acquire the information necessary for completion of items 5 and 6 of Report either by
visual surveys of the work force, or at their option, by the maintenance 'of post-employment records as to the
identity of employees where the same is permitted by State law. In the latter case, however, the Commission
recommends the maintenance of a permanent record as to the racial or ethnic identity of an individual for purpose
of completing the report form only where the employer keeps such records separately from the employees basic
personnel form or other records available to those responsible for personnel decisions, e. as part of an automatic
data processing system in the payroll department.

?1602. 14 Preservation of records made or kept.

Any personnel or employment record made br kept by an employer (including but not necessarily limited to
requests for reasonable accommodation, application forms submitted by applicants and other records having to do
with hiring, promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-off or termination, rates of pay or other terms of compensation,
and selection for training or apprenticeship) shall be preserved by the employer for a'period of one year from the
date of the making of the record or the personnel action involved, whichever occurs later. In the ease of
involuntary termination of an employee, the personnel records of the individual terminated shall be kept for a
period of one year from the date of termination. Where a charge of discrimination has been ?led, or an action
brought by the Commission or the Attorney General, against an employer under Title VII or the ADA, the
respondent employer shall preserve all personnel records relevant to the charge or action until ?nal disposition of
the charge or the action. The term personnel records relevant to the charge, for example, would include personnel
or employment records relating to the aggrieved person and to all other employees holding positions similar to
that held or sought by the aggrieved person and application forms or test papers completed by an unsuccessful
applicant and by all other candidates for the same position as that for which the aggrieved person applied and was
rejected. The date of?noi disposition ofihe charge or the notion means the date of expiration of the statutory
period within which the aggrieved person may bring an action in a U. S. District Court or, where an action is
brought against an employer either by the aggrieved person, the Commission, or by the Attorney General, the date
on which such litigation is terminated. - 

 

This page was last modified on obi-nary i, 2006.

 

 

"l Return to'Home Page

. 5/3 19006

 Job Patterns For Minorities And Women In Private Induatry (EEO-I) Page 1 of 1

The S. Ecrura.i Employment Opportunity Commission

 

'Job Patterns For Minorities And Women in 
Private 

introductory Note 

As part of its mandate under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission requires periodic reports from public and private employers, and
unions and labor organizations which indicate the composition of their work forces by sex and by
raceiethnic category. Key among these reports is the which is collected annually from Private
employers with 100 or more employees or federaim 50 more employees. In 2003, over
40,000 employers with more than 50 million employees filed EEO-1 reports.

The con?dentiality provision which governs release of these data (Section 709 of Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended by the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1922) prohibits
release of individually identi?able information. However, data in aggregated format for major
geographic areas and by industry group for private employers are available. The following
tables are national aggregations by .those industries with the greatest employment.

SIC Industgy de?nitions and codes used in the tables from 1998 through 2002'are based upon those
given in the 193? Standard Industrial Classi?cation (SIC) Manual. NAICS Industm de?nitions and codes
used in the 2003 tables are based upon those given in the 199? North American Industry Classi?cation
System (NAICS) Manual. 

. 2003-tables

.- 2002 tables 

2001 tables

Was

it 1999 tables

I. 1998 tables

4- Glossary
in Technical Notes

 

This page was last modi?ed on July 6, 2005. .

 

Return to Home Page

awn-m no mo an 1 1 1111-111 51313006

0111?021?2012'6 11:41 FAX 13123035735 CCSAD . I002

   

I I
5 735 mos-5134004 CODE OF cums PROCEDURE 
. berl I
I I. 21. MEDICAL :1 Email; .
. a Omit Refit-?nned; . gt?? -
'j ipimigarlon tarot-niacin; 410 1:L_cs 325255. l? was nut re 
Trau'tna centers. med-Ital see 210 Ema)?; 
. . . - . . ?i - I 12-"
. Administrative Code References i .3. 315?;
Matting]; :15th reporting. sec W-MdmCode 557.10 ct seq. - :17 i
library I i
LLP. EvidcnceHealth??Electronic Rascal-ch . i
. 
See Elmnic limb Guide following the Pt?cfacc. '2 i. 5.5 
'3 agendas.
5?8?2101. Information obtained . .4 . 111%: .
. ?5 I
8-2101. Informaticn obtaincd. All information. reports.?state- 7. 133:3. 715.
manta, memoranda or otherdata?yi? ??nqis of Public Health,
- municipal health Illinois of Mental Hcalth and 
Developmental Disabilities, the Mental H?ailth? ?_and 'Wimm
Medical Review Board, Illinois State Medical Society, allied m'edical Mam; 
llcalth .maintenancc organizations andmedical organim?onsiundcr contract 5 -
i - with health maintenancc organizations". physician-owned inter-insurance cx? 
changes or committees of licensed or'accr'cditecl'hospitalshr . . Am?! mm
theft: m?dic?l staffs: including Patient Care Audit Committ?es; Medical C'a're man:
Etralttation Committees. Utilizatioancvictt .Ggmmit; . EMF:
i tc?'aitd Eliccu?f?. (but not this rti??ic'al b'ertainilig in 111': In a?
patient); used in the com-?5; of quality cOntt'aI or bi m?cdical' study for Him
I thc?pllipcse cfr?ducing'. nin'rbidity or mortality, cit far-improving patient Icar?. 
. strictly con?dential and=cl1a11 'b'c used only-for medical . Patient cs
tes?arcli; 'the evaluation and 'of? quality mfg-or granting, limit- . Pa?enrgi I
. mg cit-?revoking staff-privileges misty-?that in ?any 'h?osPitai- proc?eding t'c Exiting;
a- physician's or in any- judicial ttevic'w thereof; Privileged
th'c' claim?df'cc?liiden?i?ity'sha? not be invokcd to deny suchtp?ysician- acces? 
tc'nr Usc-p?fdatti ti'p?onwhich'such?n decision wasrbagcdi-_ - mm? 2
Px?tiizsgi'i 1.ij nulli?ed by Phi.- twain.- minds; EH: Mm?;
1.33.1915: 13-13934; Padl- 34?544. 1936: Validilly
PA. aft. Jan. 1:19:35; :Pm 34-1303. Art. 11, 107, strains. 25, ?he, 
1.- eff. Ian: 1; .1933Farmed}? ch. 110, 173-2101Natl-is ?15363:;
i . PA. 32483. following ?accredited hospitals". RA. Bil-9544 insertcd'mcalth ternal quz
. inserted ?or their medical staffs?: inserted the Yganizulicns and purpose a
parentheses and in the parenthetical claus?. contract with health maintcnance orga'nlza- for men
preceding ?medical records", deleted "origi- . . ?ll-2101]
1 . 1131": and_p_reccding 't?tbr ?nn?den?al". ln- inserted "the Mental Health and as P1
?pnv?cged?? - Disnb?ltitgs Mcdidal Review county we
ILA. 33?11301. 1. provided For data from the Board". . branch- I
5 Illinois of Mental Hull}: and De- - Article II of M. First tam: 1'39 1-11-26
velopmental Disabilities, and Gcnci?i Combining Rcvisory Act. 
or" ?accredited". provides for'thc nonsubman?vc minim or re- ltacs are
i 202 -

 

 

- . .


.
I
I
I:
E.

11:41 FAX 131260351195

 

 

 

 

 

CCSAO

735 {Les CODE or cmrmocnnmi?

Hots-1G
dciermin?? appeal 
against 'phy?dans and hospital for 311ch late Court. Fur: v.5hcrman Hospital. 1973,-21
wrongml death of patient, cons?mtionaiity of 1113:: 50. 330 1376. .

51'8-2102. Admissibility as ?videInce .. . .
8-2102. Admissibility as; ?vid?nce.- {sag?ids, reportS.
statements, notes, -.memoranda,' Cir. othrirrdata, shall not .be admissible as
evidghce, ?br discgiverable in any ?action- pf any lgind piny- c'ourIt or befegre
any tribunal; boardu?gency or p?r?on. The} diiclogui'e of 'any _such infar?ia;
tion or data,- proper,? or- improper, :shall?ot-waive or- haw: any effect

from dismissal of action would not be considered by 

 

con?deriijality, p'r ?guadpaisiib?ify. A.

m; 32-239, ?13-?21i32, July 1952. Ani?nd?d'hy Jim-15113; _43,:gff.
July mg Nov. 23, 1937. . - - - 
110. Ira?1102.
- marina 

32?7133 fin-'a'ny' - -
'"nai? New - in'ev' 1193:. 611:51.? 
11?: 'I?sm 
workw??; 

Ina-C?r'o?s ilefereneed .
Physician and?palicdt. p?vil?'ged communications. see 5'35 ILCS 'r -

ILalifiR'eiriew Comm?gtzi?? '3 . . 

.- 4. 

P??lcge: housekeeping mules; 1969. 

thcagtheu: Lilev.93Nate?so?f Dedsjons . .
Aiipgi?ddiqnts"?2' - 
cam muhl. mm" 273- .. -
Er. ??ququ -- - 1m 1m and?i?z midi;
131mm ?5 . i @330 .
5 wi?ws, r?pons'?pdgtaycnim'xs ofI'medic-ai cgm- 
In camera mutilation 7 If" ?gsbi?l?i ?Egg-133m enti?
. Pramp?om an burden of PM :n ?ad 16E Iggoacmt?ppli?l?qp'tq panda}; ?25? 
i 83 . .54: I in $115.41. 
'i 2' I- ingfgom statcmenis made by. datum! physi-
- 
m'edic'zd centur- Mah'iuw n.
4-: 1.. ammu__ana ?pplicatloqhn 19? .. .. . 

4; 'Medicai'Studim, Ant didohotgiihcr?xpre?sly 11333151023? 

- or emu-.111: muzfs?qermina?onof . . .. -. .
on basiaof submission oimamriaisrincamgra e511! If I in tests that-1h 'wl-ad.
orthcir? prior mush it. didnpithibit ts 0. pomp .. osmiucther
1-35] ?ampdmis?on .05 equip materials. limq avi- ?9:535 to am?" 5" .
deuce. Walker they alteredpauem-rqmr?s werr?snahpn?-
. Ass'n. 1930. 45-11mm. 79?. 91 3m.? loawd- pursunnt Medwal Em Act: 1311-

414 HEM 350. -. - . . . miryI purpose of humanely, ?nding doctors

    
 

to. save-on peer-ruin? oommi?ec?, was not

preset}; when investigation auras undimakm-?by

'h'dspiia] administration. Marsh wink: Fun-:5:

not waive the priv?cge appiind'reirospec?vdy. 519 NM ?nch appezh?cmed

Snkosku Hosp. App. 5 Disam?s, 122 mmea-da9i-121 11.1.ch 51?1. 526 NEH-832.
203

2. Amendments . 
Amendment to this WE .pmviding'ihal
disclamu'e of any privileged: infon'aation did



 

 

 

loos

 

Emmi

4. 00an 

Prohibit}
this para;

informa?c -

rial. board .

to bar phi
defendant
mar}: rem

DE hospita 

am. 111 

5. 1mm:
Neither
i?l 3-2101
Am: [Ch
IorIstath
mew c:
purpose i'
orthodoa:
the dams
:1de
focus wa
sinn wi?:
side of I:
medical
tic: :31
appli 
commas:
T43 
Memb
solutciy
ages sou
of allege
3.1 rela?
Carson 1
Dist-198'
5&3 
131 111.2

6. D19:

'Tncid
sion in?
way at

mum
pinal's 1
af?davi
control
in his a
all can -
Disn19'.
14.3245
3
Any
:5 par!
prove 
moi-bi:

      
 

 

06/02/2003 11:42 FAX 13126035735 CCSAD

735211.05 '513?2102
Rate '3 - .

violated its review procedures. Zojac v. SI.
of Nazareth Hosp. Center. 10123. .1 Dist.

1991. 156 Dimer-1. 360. 212 ELAFPJ 7'19. 571
NM I. I I 

Privilege which attaches to hospital review
prooedureo. used totevicw hospital's internal

"or control under Modieal Studies Act. can-
not be waived. whether or not information has
been' properly or innproperly. disclosed. .Zajae
1355:. oE-Nmreth Hosp. center. App. 1
DisL199_1. 156'111.Doc. 360. 212 1'79.
5,71 NM 340. A 
?Pothglogy reporfs of tort; performed to de-
termine souroe of infection to' plaintifE
coha?m?on report authored by physician who
was on expert?in infection control were initi-
ated ?ghd used by hwitai?s eh?ronmenpal'ser.

 

 

 

 

SIB-2103. information

 

for darnages- or other relief. -
tot. 62-230, g. 392103, eff..ng 1.19323
Formerly Ill.R.ev.Slat.1991. ch; 110. 11372103m?vsml??l. 61.51.11 103. . 

not

     
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   

- 'ulot-Juhhu'o-um

-.I

f? ctio?'andh?p?iali?i?qn 

 

1. construction and application
granting immunity from-oint?for those provi

NM 606. 

518-2104. Interviews .

.uu 

    
 
 






  

.au.Notesof Decisions r" . .-
remarks made by de-
with-respect to plaintiff 11hr
sic-ion in a._speoial meeting of hospital?s execu-
tive committee- did not involve ?wrench
?roject? ondi-hence. did not ?rmi-
sions now oontoinod in this paragraph granting
from suit for those providing con??

Former: ch. 51.? TIDE [new this paragraph;
111g con?dentiali-lniorrnn?on '11: cause of: a
?research 'ect? did not included meeting of
hospi executive committee 'oonvened.to
evaluation stn?-mernher?s performance. - Met-
V. Jumm'dml? 36 'moDch37-94  '70 IU-
App.3d. 431, 333 tQS..nppeal after-ro-
und 6? Iii.Dec. 310. .111 ilLAppad 629; 444

3?2104; 1an5. No'pati'eot. patients:
'named in any medical study, shall be interviewe

cone or CIVIL mooeomte

vices committee. for internal- qualityr control.
medical study and to-irnprove patient oat-e. and
were therefore privileged and nondiscoverehle
under Medical Studies Act. which privilege and
.noodiecoverability- was not waivedlror? other-
'wise 'affected:by shin-Eng of information-with
hotpital's rislonranagememoomnoittee. Sakos-
ko'v. Mento?al 5 M1933. 118
?LDec. 313. 1.57 moored 542.522 11.326 273.

muons and burden of Foot
Burden of showing applicability?bf hospital
?nidr?niotion privilege was on horpital objeoting
to?evide'nce. Roach Spring?eld Clinic. App.
4.Dist?1991, use moan-.213. 213 597.
535 nudism. appeal allowed 145 med on.

842-103. For-?shing information. 
the course of a reheareh?rojeot to the Illinois-'Departmont 'of Pu .
?linois-State-Mcdical.5ociety, allied :11 'cal societies or tan'm?ho" ital
committees or their authorized regresent'dtiverf. sha?Tmt?lojEWj'pereon;
hdgi?it?lhsahita?um. mii'?ih'g?r rest home or-?any so agency to any action



-. Hint'drieal and smmor?notes.

-.

dential information in course of. a' 1:

project.? Mowiuw ii; Joh'nson} 1979;:26 

memo M13341 (or, air 795.;appee1
nEEer. anon?: nine; am, .111 

529.444 11.3.2.1 aid. 

4

_study unless consent of the attending physician and surgeon is ?rst obtained.
the 32-230, 1,719.32. . - 
Forme'rly IichifSItitdiHILd-i? ?16111: 

210

relatives; or' hatient'it. friends
d5 for the purposem?f such

 

 

EVIDENC:

Prior laws:
laws 1961.
?l?ev?tat.

sis-2105. 

8?2105 5
records. re
such medir 
is unlawfu
Part 21 o! .
PA. 82?280.
1983.
Forrner'lg,r Ill.

PA. 33?70'
for 

I'?or laws:
Laws 1951,

Sentenoe 

Validity 1

l. Validity
Fonner ci-
elasoifying 0
formation o1:
ing to doctde'
as a Class A

I.L.P. Etric'

Seem

513-2201

3?220
for the to
the neglii
any perso
verdict re

 

name/zoos 11:42 FAX 1312303573 ccsao

EVIDENCE - I 735 mes 518?2201

. . Historical. 
Prior laws: .
laws 1961. p. 3721, 4. ..
?LRevEtetl?JBl. ch. 51, 104. . 

. I, .

Improper disclosure 1: 3 -

3-2105. Improper disclosure. The disclosure of an},r information.
records. reports, statements, notes. memoranda or other data obtainedin any
such medical study exeept that necessary for the purpose .of the speci?c study
is unlawful, and any person contacted of violating any of the provisions of
Part 21 of Article of this Act is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
PA. 32?230. .5. 5-2105. as. 33-70? 1. eff. Sept. 23.
1983. . .
Formerly ch. 110. 1133?2105:" 

mstorioai and Statutory Notes

33?70? whstituted "Part 21 of thick at. 71?2330. Art. 43. 1.
for "Sections 3-2101 through ??Zl?i?fag. eh. 51.1105.

Prior Laws:
law: 1961, p. 3H1. 5.

.. - 

Wkefef?dces_mOEimp*. mmc?t'fdr I. 730% 5754-3. .- i

.3.

 

Vallqlity.1_ .. -- g. - excludeet?denqe-relemt
- toaelaimhased on federal law 

 

gems?, - - Elia-fought'in fe?ereifetgeun,? was?woid 33nd' of n;

Irma} l? mummy? use','an - i
at: ?es?m?gg?m??o??ng . 311? benign 
for?mtitm obtained in the-course of a ptfocecd- 111:. .?prp?sioa "0.1111339? horror} Mammal

ing to deride 'upon a pas-sears: staff privileges McHe?ry :C'ounty Shad'urg 13-A-

as a Class A :?isdenieanor. tb' the?et?tent? that it_ ?1981,- seer-12d 1058euphm?tfeitw?es- .

LLBEvideneel. -. . . m, .. 
was 

'_see WESIIAWEIeen-omenesearch Ghide the Preface. 
amt. amass a: eororier?sre?prgis . 'f . . 

8-2201. Admissib?ify' of coroner's records. In actions or% proceedings
for the recovery of damages arising from'or- growing out of injuries eausect by
the negligence 'of any person; firm or. corporation resulting in the ?eet-hoof.
any person or for the collection of a policy of inmaneerneither the coroner?s
verdict returned upon the inquisition, nor alcopy thereof, shall be admissible

21-1, ..

 

 

