Minutes of the Special Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held
Monday, July 11, 2016 at the hour of 4:00 P.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago,
Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Hammock called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman M. Hill Hammock and Directors Emilie N. Junge; Mary B. Richardson-Lowry; Carmen
Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese (5)
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. (non-Director Member of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee)

Present
Telephonically:

Absent:

Vice Chairman Hon. Jerry Butler and Director Ric Estrada (2)
Gerald Bauman (non-Director Member of the Audit and Compliance Committee) and Steven
Scheer (non-Director Member of the Finance Committee)
Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim and Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, LFACHE (2)

Chairman Hammock stated that Vice Chairman Butler, Director Estrada, Mr. Scheer and Mr. Bauman would be
participating in the meeting telephonically.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Junge, moved to allow Vice Chairman Butler
to participate as a voting member for the meeting telephonically. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Junge, moved to allow Director Estrada to
participate as a voting member for the meeting telephonically. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Ekerete Akpan – Chief Financial Officer
Debra Carey - Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory
Services
Kathy Chan - Director of Policy
Douglas Elwell – Deputy CEO of Finance and Strategy
Claudia Fegan,
MD - Executive Medical
Director/Medical Director-Stroger
Steven Glass – Executive Director of Managed Care
Gladys Lopez –Chief of Human Resources
Terry Mason, MD – Cook County Department of Public
Health

II.

Jeff McCutchan – Interim General Counsel
Mary Sajdak - Senior Director of Integrated Care
Management
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Caryn Stancik – Executive Director of Communications
Agnes Therady – Executive Director of Nursing

Public Speakers
Chairman Hammock asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1. George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen
Page 1 of 30

 Minutes of the Special Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Monday, July 11, 2016
Page 2

III.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A.

Strategic planning discussion (Attachment #1)

Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, reviewed the presentation, which included information on the
following subjects:
•
•

Timeline review
Agenda for July 11th
- General Comments on Plan
- Review 2017 Measurements/Milestones

During the review and discussion of the information, the following members of leadership joined the Board
Members in the conversation: Ekerete Akpan, Chief Financial Officer; Debra Carey, Chief Operating Officer,
Ambulatory Services; Douglas Elwell, Deputy CEO of Finance and Strategy; Dr. Claudia Fegan, Executive Medical
Director/Medical Director-Stroger; Steven Glass, Executive Director of Managed Care; Gladys Lopez, Chief of
Human Resources; Dr. Terry Mason, Chief Operating Officer of the Cook County Department of Public Health;
Agnes Therady, Executive Director of Nursing; and Mary Sajdak, Senior Director of Integrated Care Management.
With regard to the subject of behavioral health impacts, Director Richardson-Lowry recommended the insertion of
a single word - “alcohol,” as some grant-related resources are available if there is a direct reference to it.
During the discussion of the information, Kathy Chan, Director of Policy, provided an overview of the Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP); she referenced possible cuts or limits to SNAP for certain beneficiaries that
could arise if Illinois does not seek a waiver from the United States Department of Agriculture’s Food and Nutrition
Services. Director Wiese inquired regarding the estimated number of beneficiaries that could be affected by the
possible cuts or limits; Ms. Chan responded that she will follow-up and provide a response to the question.
Dr. Shannon stated that, should the Board have any further comments on the draft Strategic Plan, they should be
sent to Caryn Stancik and Andrea Gibson, with a copy to the Board Chair and Board Secretary, prior to the close of
business on Wednesday, July 13th , to ensure inclusion in the updated Strategic Plan, which will be released on
Friday, July 15th for the Thursday, July 21st Public Hearing and subsequent approval on Friday, July 29th. It was
determined that the Board will receive the updated Strategic Plan prior to public release on Friday, July 15th.

IV.

Action Items
A.

V.

Any items listed under Sections IV and V

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.

Approval of the Closed Meeting Minutes of the October 20, 2015 Meeting of the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee
Approval of the Closed Meeting Minutes of the October 30, 2015 Meeting of the Board of Directors
Approval of the Closed Meeting Minutes of the February 26, 2016 Meeting of the Board of Directors

Page 2 of 30

 Minutes of the Special Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Monday, July 11, 2016
Page 3

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Wiese, moved to recess the open
meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action
against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a
court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment,
credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care
professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by
the public body,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(21), regarding “discussion of minutes of meetings
lawfully closed under this Act, whether for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes
or semi-annual review of the minutes as mandated by Section 2.06.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Hammock, Vice Chairman Butler and Directors Estrada, Junge,
Richardson-Lowry, Velasquez and Wiese (7)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Directors Gugenheim and Lerner (2)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Board convened into a closed
meeting.
Chairman Hammock declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
reconvened into the open meeting.

The Board

Director Richardson-Lowry, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to approve the Closed
Meeting Minutes of the October 20, 2015 Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety
Committee; the Closed Meeting Minutes of the October 30, 2015 Meeting of the Board of
Directors; and the Closed Meeting Minutes of the February 26, 2016 Meeting of the Board
of Directors. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Director Richardson-Lowry voted PRESENT.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Hammock declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.

Page 3 of 30

 Minutes of the Special Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Monday, July 11, 2016
Page 4

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
M. Hill Hammock, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 4 of 30

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Special Meeting Minutes
July 11, 2016

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 5 of 30

  

i!

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Strategic Planning

July 11, 2016

. COOK COUNTY-HEALTH

 

 

Timeline review
• Feb – May
• June 29th
• July 11th
•
•
•
•
•
2

July 15th
July 21st
July 29th
August
Fall

Board Presentations/Discussions
Draft plan discussion at Board Mtg
Draft plan discussion continued at
Special Board Mtg
Post plan for public review
Public Hearing at 1:00pm
Board Meeting to approve plan
Budget
Implementation plan
Page 7 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Agenda for July 11th
• General comments on plan
• Review 2017 Measurements/Milestones
– Do they address the objectives?
– Are they realistic?
– Do they measure success?
– Is anything missing?

3

Page 8 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Deliver High Quality Care
1.1 Standardize clinical operations, practices and procedures across the
system to improve quality, reliability and efficiency.
– 10% increase in number of patients screened using care management
techniques.
– Implement Cerner CommonWell.

1.2 Improve the availability of and access to health care, especially
preventive care, for Cook County residents

– Open replacement Logan Square, Cicero and Vista Health Centers and
make substantial progress on the new central campus building. Identify
and announce three additional renovations or relocations.
– Obtain land and design Provident-community regional outpatient center.
– Integrate behavioral health into all outpatient health centers and ROCs and
expand specialty behavioral health.
– Increase utilization of operating room at Provident Hospital by 10%.
– Implement connectivity HUB.

4

Page 9 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Deliver High Quality Care
1.3 Ensure there is a continuum of services to meet evolving needs of
patients at all stages of their lives.

– Complete analysis on gaps in service and action plan complete to address
the needs.
– Implement resumption of Department of Psychiatry services in Emergency
Rooms.
– Optimize quality and safety by consolidating a single pediatric inpatient
unit with partners.
– Enter into one Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with a pediatric
partner.

1.4 Develop systems that meet or exceed expectations and enhance the
patient experience
– Increase patient satisfaction numbers across the System with results in
concentrated areas such as new health centers moving into top decile.
– Target the 50th percentile for “willingness to recommend the hospital”.
– Facilitate customer service and safety training for 75% of staff.
– Ensure all units perform safety huddles.

5

Page 10 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Deliver High Quality Care
1.5 CCHHS will work to ensure that patients receive Culturally and
Linguistically Appropriate Services (CLAS) through effective,
understandable and respectful care provided in a manner compatible
with cultural health beliefs, practices and preferred languages.

– Add CLAS questions to patient satisfaction surveys by mid-2017; monitor
results to ensure improvement
– Conduct annual employee training.

1.6 Integrate services with correctional health, both by focusing on early
interventions to prevent arrests and reduce the jail population and by
ensuring continuation of care when detainees are released from jail.
– Determine explicit approach for continuity of care for justice-involved
populations.
– Obtain ability to reduce gaps in care for detainees at the jail.
– Achieve substantial compliance with DOJ.
– Implement naloxone program at the jail (2016).

6

Page 11 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Grow to Serve & Compete
2.1 Grow primary care base
– Increase in empaneled primary care patients by 10%.

2.2 Retain and grow CountyCare membership
through marketing, acquisition and state policy
changes on redetermination and jail detainee
coverage.
– In 1st quarter of 2017, provide CCHHS Board of
Directors with retention and acquisition strategy.
– Increase CountyCare membership.
7

Page 12 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Grow to Serve & Compete
2.3 Capture more CountyCare members as referrals
by increasing internal referrals for CCHHS specialty
and inpatient care.
– Achieve higher percentage of CountyCare referrals to
specialty and inpatient care year-over-year.

2.5 Identify existing centers of excellence and invest
in the development of additional centers based on
community need, system expertise and available
resources.

– Identify two centers of excellence.
– Achieve year-over-year increase in volumes for centers of
excellence.
– Attain American College of Surgeons (ACS) Level 1 Trauma
certification.

8

Page 13 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Fiscal Stewardship
3.1 Maximize reimbursements from Managed
Care Organizations (MCOs) and private insurance
and compete on value, grow membership and
influence MCO strategy.
– Increase primary care patients by 10%.
– Increase MCO revenue by 25%.

3.2 Optimize CCHHS revenue by balancing the
portfolio of funding sources and pursuing various
legislative solutions.
– Increase bills for oral and behavioral health services.
– Increase indirect cost dollars from grants.
9

Page 14 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Fiscal Stewardship
3.3 Demonstrate fiscal responsibility with limited
resources by controlling costs and maximizing
efficiency.
– Reduce time to hire, procurement and badging
processes.
– Implement ERP core finance, budget preparation.
– Complete capital equipment replacement plan.
– Achieve ability to fund capital equipment and
improvements from operating budget.

10

Page 15 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Fiscal Stewardship
3.4 Improve provider documentation to support coding and
billing to reflect the level of service provided and the
complexity of illness of the patients.
– 95% of History & Physical complete by discharge.
– 95% of Discharge summary complete in seven days.

3.5 Deploy efforts to increase patient safety,
documentation and communication to limit financial
exposure to litigation claims and minimize information and
data security risks.
– Conduct event review for all litigation and implement and
communicate lessons learned.
– Facilitate education for all providers on risk-reduction.
– Set up remote hosting for IT systems.
11

Page 16 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Fiscal Stewardship
3.6 Ensure patients and CountyCare members
receive the right care at the right time in the right
place.
– Increase utilization management year-over-year.
– Initiate one focused project on medication
management to decrease unnecessary encounters.

3.7 Expand marketing and branding strategy to
raise the profile of CCHHS and CountyCare.
– Increase patient and member volume.
– Increase deliveries at Stroger by 10%.
12

Page 17 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Invest in Resources
4.1 Partner with labor to provide a health care
experience that is convenient to patients.
– Establish extended hours at all health centers.

4.2 Recruit, hire and retain the best employees who
are committed to the CCHHS mission.
– Develop action plan based on top-drivers upon
completion of employee engagement survey and other
employee feedback.
– Implement online annual performance evaluations.
– Reduce time to hire by 15% for non-credentialed
positions.
– Achieve substantial compliance on the employment plan.
13

Page 18 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Invest in Resources
4.3 Strengthen CCHHS workforce.

– Increase number of advertising outlets for recruitment.
– Conduct an analysis of bench strength by area to
determine future areas of risk.
– Complete action plan on span of control.

4.4 Enhance medical education by further
development of safety culture and reporting.

– Increase Culture of Safety Survey response rate from less
than 10% to 30%.
– Provide ongoing teamwork coaching to at least 50% of
leadership by end of year.
– Dialogue with local partners regarding nursing education
affiliations.

14

Page 19 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Invest in Resources
4.5 Strengthen quality of care by systematic
assessment of capital equipment, development of
multi-year replacement strategy.
– Complete capital equipment replacement plan.

15

Page 20 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Leverage Valuable Assets
5.1 Implement a unified medical staff practice.
– Establish practice plan governance and management
structure.

5.2 Promote interdisciplinary engagement to
address complex medical conditions.
– Develop interdisciplinary and interdepartmental
services for three clinical areas.

16

Page 21 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Leverage Valuable Assets
5.3 Exploit relevant sources for monitoring quality, cost, utilization and
patient outcomes.

– Implement Cerner CommonWell.
– Complete one advanced analysis project by the Collaborative Research Unit
(CRU) from the CountyCare claims data.
– Implement HealtheIntent.
– Establish reliable reporting to the National Database of Nursing Quality
Indicators (NDNQI) data reporting system.

5.4 Utilize CCDPH data and experience to address health inequities to
conceptualize and plan robust interventions to improve population
health.

– Leverage information from CCDPH childhood lead poisoning prevention
surveillance to improve health outcomes.
– Utilize information from CCDPH’s Adverse Pregnancy Reporting System
(APORS) to improve outcomes.
– Review annual updates of health status and data reports to inform CCHHS
initiatives.

17

Page 22 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Leverage Valuable Assets
5.5 Evaluate clinical effectiveness by specialty and
forecast health needs with robust analytics and
benchmarking.
– Have ambulatory clinical effort agreements for each
department.
– Mature Relative Value Unit model at physician and
department level.

5.6 Produce knowledge (using internal and external
resources) about how best to provide care to CCHHS
patients.
– Identify and complete two clinical conditions for analysis
and complete the analyses.
18

Page 23 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Leverage Valuable Assets
5.7 Invest in continuous learning and development,
including training around domain-specific best practices.

– Complete nursing leadership academy for managers by June
2017.
– Create improvement review process.

5.8 Demonstrate value of undergraduate and graduate
medical education and academic affiliations to the
organization by analysis of costs, returns, pipeline to
workforce and facilitation of CCHHS mission.

– Complete assessment framework to review residency
programs.
– Complete four residency assessments.
– Make recommendations to the Board on academic affiliations.
– Transition Family Medicine Residency to CCHHS.

19

Page 24 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Impact Social Determinants of Health
6.1 Ensure continued access to care for uninsured
patients.
– Expand and optimize structure of health plan for the
uninsured.

6.2 Utilize CCDPH data and experience to address
health inequities to conceptualize and plan robust
interventions to improve population health.
– Develop a proposed program to address medical
needs of children who have experienced ACEs.

20

Page 25 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Impact Social Determinants of Health
6.3 Partner with other organizations to address population
health needs outside of the healthcare system, including
those related to social determinants of health.
– Expand “Food as Medicine” program to all outpatient sites.
– Provide WIC services at all health centers
– Pilot intervention aimed at improving health status of African
American men at select health centers.

6.4 Further develop care coordination services across the
continuum of care to address social determinants of health
to improve population health.
– Continue to expand care coordination to support the use of
appropriate resources, e.g. outpatient workups.
– Establish delegation from MCOs for care coordination.
– Achieve NCQA accreditation for care management.

21

Page 26 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Impact Social Determinants of Health
6.5. Assess organizational contributions to
disparities.
– Identify one clinical area for review and analysis,
stratified by race, ethnicity and language preference.

22

Page 27 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Advocate for Patients
7.1 Advocate for improved healthcare for the
uninsured population, including justice-involved
populations.
– Determine explicit approach for continuity of care for
justice-involved populations.

7.4 Establish outpatient health centers as community
anchors.
– Establish at least two community advisory boards for
community health centers.
– Expand community programming in four health center
locations.

23

Page 28 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Advocate for Patients
7.5 Advocate for influenza vaccine for all
healthcare workers in Illinois.
– Support legislation or code changes to support this
change by developing language and an approach as
well as create constituency group backing.

7.6 Advocate for improvements in identifying and
addressing blood lead levels in children in
suburban Cook County.
– Implement policy to intervene when a child has a
blood lead level of 5mcg/dL or more.

24

Page 29 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 Advocate for Patients
7.7 Assess effect of CDC grant “Partnerships to
Improve Community Health (PICH) to identify
effective public health practices to promote
relevant policies.
– Finalize plan to sustain practices identified in the
grant period.

25

Page 30 of 30

Strategic Planning I July 11, 2016

 