AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: February 11, 2015
The Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System (CCHHS) will meet on Thursday, February 19, 2015 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in
the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
\

Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

8:30/Chairman Velasquez

II.

Public Speakers

8:30-8:40

III.

Director of Internal Audit – Information and Action Items

8:40-9:00/Tom Schroeder

For information:
A. Report from Internal Audit – review of information on CCHHS
Internal Audit Function
For approval:
B. Internal Audit Charter
C. Charter for Audit and Compliance Committee – review as it relates
to Internal Audit and Corporate Compliance

IV.

Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer – Information
and Action Items
For approval:
A. CCHHS Compliance Program Operations Plan
B. CountyCare Compliance Plan
C. Designation of Cathy Bodnar as Chief Compliance Officer (as the
CountyCare Compliance Officer)
For information:
D. CountyCare Oversight Meetings

9:00-10:00/Cathy Bodnar

 AGENDA
Thursday, February 19, 2015 Meeting of the
Audit and Compliance Committee
Page 2

IV.

Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer – Information
and Action Items (continued)
To receive and file:
E. CountyCare Compliance Steering Committee Charter
F. CountyCare Grievances and Appeals Introduction
G. FY2014 Compliance Program Activity

V.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, June 23, 2014

10:00-10:05/Chairman Velasquez

B. Any items listed under Sections III, IV, V and VI

VI.

Closed Meeting Items

10:05-10:25

A. Report from Director of Internal Audit
B. Report from Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer
C. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Open Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal
of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine
its validity,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(29), regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental audit
committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal control weaknesses,
identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of the United States of America.”

VII. Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Velasquez
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Gugenheim and Junge
Gerald Bauman (Non-Director Member)

 