Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System held Friday, February 19, 2010 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Zopp called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Sister Sheila Lyne,
RSM; and Jorge Ramirez (5)
Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts (Ex-Officio) and Director Hon. Jerry Butler

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr.
William T. Foley
Patricia Kelleher, MD
II.

Elizabeth Reidy
Jonathan Rothstein
Deborah Santana

Deborah Tate
Anthony J. Tedeschi, MD, MPH, MBA

Public Speakers
Chairman Zopp asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Report from System Director of Human Resources
Update on H1N1 Employee Vaccinations
Dr. Pat Kelleher, of the System’s Employee Health Services, provided an update on H1N1 Employee
Vaccinations. She stated that, to date, 5,552 vaccinations have been administered; this total represents 84% of
System employees and 67% of all personnel categories.
Update on Human Resources Activities
Deborah Tate, System Director of Human Resources, provided an update on the System’s activities in support of
Haiti relief efforts, and activities relating to the implementations of the Taleo System and Lawson System
(Attachment #1).
The Committee discussed the implementation of the Taleo System, which is an automated recruiting, hiring,
and on-boarding system that is being implemented County-wide. This applicant tracking system will allow
the System to electronically manage the hiring process for System positions. The implementation was kickedoff on February 4th. Ms. Tate noted that the System’s implementation has preliminarily been set to take place in
July, however, she believes that it may take place later than July.
Director Carvalho inquired whether applications for System positions will still need to be submitted by
applicants to the County’s Bureau of Human Resources after this implementation, or whether they will be able
to submit them to locations at System affiliates. Ms. Tate responded that this will require a separate action, but
she hopes that this action will parallel or closely follow the Taleo implementation. After further discussion, she
noted that the County’s Bureau of Human Resources continues to determine when System positions are posted.

Page 1 of 11

 Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
Friday, February 19, 2010
Page 2

III. Report from System Director of Human Resources (continued)
The Committee discussed the Lawson System implementation. Ms. Tate stated that they continue to work with
the County to get additional data (employee benefit information and compensation data) needed for this
implementation.
William T. Foley, Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, stated that the
Human Resources data is only one piece of the Lawson System implementation; however, this data is an
important component which is needed for the implementation. Ms. Tate added that there is a meeting scheduled
on February 22nd on this subject with Joseph Fratto, Chief of Staff to President Todd H. Stroger; representatives
from the County’s Bureau of Human Resources; and the County’s Chief Financial Officer, Jaye M. Williams.
With regard to Chairman Zopp’s inquiry regarding Lawson implementation timelines, Ms. Tate responded that
they initially projected to be on-board by the end of the year. This timeline may be in jeopardy, due to
challenges experienced with the data collection, however, they are working hard to try to meet the initial
projected timeline.
IV.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Update and discussion of pending information requests
Chairman Zopp indicated that there were no pending information requests to be discussed at this time.

V.

Action Items
A. Any items listed under Sections IV and VI

VI.

Closed Session Discussion/Information Items
A. Discussion of personnel matters
B. Update on labor negotiations
Director Lyne, seconded by Director Carvalho, moved to recess the regular session and convene into closed
session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which
permits closed meetings for consideration of “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body,
including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal
counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective
negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their representatives, or deliberations
concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees.” THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Zopp declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Committee reconvened into regular
session.

Page 2 of 11

 Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
Friday, February 19, 2010
Page 3

VII. Adjourn
Director Golden, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to adjourn.
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

THE MOTION CARRIED

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ms. Andrea Zopp, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 3 of 11

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting
February 19, 2010

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 4 of 11

  

HR Committee Meeting

February 19, 2010

 

 

 

Updates

N1
>Haiti
>Taleo
>Lawson

 

 

H1N1
¾84% employees compliant
¾Currently negotiating with SEIU and
NNOC over the effects of the policy
¾Both expressed concern over the
mandatory requirement

Page 7 of 11

 Haiti
¾ CCHHS allocated 10 paid positions in
support of the Haiti relief efforts
¾ Currently 8 of those positions have been
used between nurses and physicians
¾ Once those paid positions have been
utilized, employees wishing to assist with
the continuing relief efforts will be able to
use personal time using the same
approval process currently in place

Page 8 of 11

 Taleo
¾ Cook County kicked off the Taleo
implementation on February 4th
¾ CCHHS is going to be one of the early
participants with a projected July implementation
¾ Initial training occurred this week with both Gina
Goodson Allen and Niesha Denagall attending
¾ We are putting together a core team and have
requested participants from both nursing and
operations

Page 9 of 11

 Lawson
¾ Based on information my team has provided to
CC-One Lawson team:
¾ An on-line form has been developed to facilitate new
hires, transfers and other employee changes
¾ Logic for position codes is being developed and
derived from existing job code/department information

¾ Requesting data from the Bureau
¾ Benefit information required
¾ Compensation data required

Page 10 of 11

 Displacement Information by Union
Unreconciled
¾

LPNAI
7
1

¾

employees placed in vacancies
employees laid off

AFSME
25
0

¾

employees placed in vacancies
employees laid off

SEIU
57
82
18

¾

employees placed in vacancies
employees laid off
employees on LOA or Retiring

NNOC
81
3
2

¾

employees placed in vacancies
employees laid off
employees on LOA

Transfer of Building and Trades Positions
21

¾

employees transferred to the Bureau

TOTAL
172
84
21
20
___
297

employees placed in vacancies
employees laid off
employees transferred
employees on LOA or Retiring

Page 11 of 11

 