REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

SEPTEMBER 19, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Warren L. Batts; Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell, MD,
Hon. Jerry Butler; David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, MPH,
Director Sister Sheila Lyne, Luis Mu?oz, MD, Heather E.
O?Donnell, ID, and Andrea Zopp (1 1)

Absent: None (0)

Also Present: David Alden Quick Leonard Kieffer International; Dave Barker, MD Chief Medical
Of?cer, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center; Martha Benningham Quick Leonard Kieffer
International; Johnny Brown Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook
County; Matthew B. DeLeon - Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook
County; Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau,
Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Sylvia Edwards Chief Operating Of?cer, Oak Forest
Hospital of Cook County; Randall Mark Director of Policy Analysis, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; Jeff McCutchan Supervisor, Transactions and Health
Law Division, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Matt Powers Health Management
Associates; Roger Quick Quick Leonard Kieffer international; David R. Small 
Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County Healthand Hospitals System

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on
Friday, September 19, 2003 at the hour of 7:30 AM. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the

fifth floor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of
members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

Chairman Batts indicated that Directors Ansell and Golden were not physically present at the meeting, but
would be attending the meeting via teleconference call.

Directors Ansell and Golden continued their presence.
Director O?Donnell, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to allow Directors Ansell and Golden to

participate as voting members in the meeting telephonically. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 19, 2008
Page 2
APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Approval of' the minutes of the meeting of the Cook county Health and
Hospitals System Board of Directors of Friday, September 5, 2003 at 7:30 AM.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of
the Cook Count],r Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Friday, September 5, 2008.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT FROM SYSTEM BOARD WARREN L. BATTS
Briefing on presentations mode to Cook County Board and the iw?c Federation

Chairman Batts gave a brief overview ofthe recent presentations made to the Cook County Board and the
Civic Federation.

Meeting withl Southwest ministers

. Chairman Batts reported that a meeting was held with a group of ministers from the Southwest area of
Cook County. Director Greenspan and David R. Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System, also attended. The group is interested in improving health care
services in that part of the County. The most pressing concern at this time is the lack of trauma services.
They would like to establish some form of advisory group to the Board of Directors; Chairman Batts
indicated that the Board should be willing to meet with the group.

Discussion continued on the subject of trauma centers in this area. It was stated that the System is being
requested to meet needs that are not being met by the private sector; these needs do not target a speci?c
group or County-identified purpose or mission. It was determined that more information would be
gathered, and further discussions and review should take place.

Miscellaneous

Chairman Batts stated that he met with two members from the groups who produced the two Blue Ribbon
Reports. Their initial suggestion was that the Board should bring in some outside consultants to assist
with their progress. He thought that the Board may want to meet with two or three of the leading
healthcare consulting firms to learn more about their suggestions and recommendations.

Discussion continued on the subject of outside consultants. Chairman Batts indicated that he did not
envision a turnaround group; other types of outside consultant groups were identi?ed. He stated that
ultimately the Board needs a ?snapshot? to understand the uniqueness of the System that explains the
reason for the higher staffing levels. He asked for the Opinion of the Directors on the subject of bringing
in outside consultants; experiences were related from several Directors. Some factors, such as the cost
and the ability to understand the challenges unique to the County, were stated. Many Directors related
favorable results from these types of arrangements; increased benchmarking and assessments were
enlightening and could be helpful to a new System Chief Executive Of?cer.

 

 REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 19, 2008

Page 3

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM INTERIM
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DAVID R. SMALL

Benchmarking and sta??ittg icveis

Mr. Small provided the Board with additional information regarding the examination of staf?ng levels.
He stated that benchmarks can be provided for every department and service line, but the underlying
question on staffing levels remains unanswered until a full analysis of the System with relation to these
benchmarks is performed. He has asked several ?rms to give a proposal within thirty days to identify the
issues which lead to the full-time equivalent staffing numbers and to identify possible changes that will
lower the human capital needs. He stated that he will update the Finance Committee on this issue when
he receives reaponses or new information.

Director Carvalho referenced a study conducted when the new Stroger Hospital was still being planned.
He thought that the study may be help?Jl. He added that although the study is out of date, a signi?cant
reduction of ?Jll-time equivalent employees in anticipation of opening the new hospital was
recommended, but never occurred.

Randall Mark, Director of Policy Analysis for the Cook County Health and HOSpltalS System, stated that
the APM study was conducted in I998 or 1999; he would locate a copy of the study for their reviewl. He
added that one of the principal recommendations was to more broadly de?ne the ?rnotions of technicians.

Update on status - Report. ?oor the Department of Justice. Civil' Rights Division regarding
Cermak Health Services

Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State?s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the
State?s Attorney, provided the Board with an update on the status of the response to the Report from the
Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, regarding Cermak Health Services. Meetings have been
held with attorneys from the Department of Justice in Washington and some attorneys from the US.
Attorney?s of?ce in Chicago; also involved is the Sheriff?s separate counsel. Issues relating to medical
records and staf?ng are key ?ndings in the report; funding and capital improvement needs are related. A
team of experts has been identi?ed and is ready to come in to do outside analysis of Cermak medical and
care. These experts have worked with the Department of Justice in the past. The results of
their efforts will indicate what is needed to come into compliance. The $50,000 cost of the analysis is
hoped to be paid out of expert witness funds, not health funds. Working groups have been assembled by
David Fagus, Chief Operating Of?cer of Cermak Health Services, and Dr. Avery Hart, Chief Medical
Of?cer of Cermak Health Services. It was pointed out that the funding for Cermak is currently contained
within the Public Safety budget.

Discussion turned to the subject of control of Cermak Health Services, currently under the Health and
Hospitals System. Mr. Driscoll stated that when questions have been raised regarding transfer of control
of Cermak to the Sheriff, the Sheriff has taken a position that they would rather control it themselves than
have others control it. Chairman Batts stated that the issue of transfer of control to the Sheriff should be
on the table. Mr. Small added that the report ?ndings referenced the issue of bifurcation of
administration.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 19, 2003
Page 4
Information provided on dashboards and recent and claims approved by County Board

Mr. Small provided the Board with informational dashboards and a listing of recent bills and claims that
have been approved by the County Board. Questions arose regarding payments to New York Boys
Management. He explained that in 2007, a decision was made to depopulate the long-term care services
at Oak Forest Hospital. A contract with New York Boys Management was entered into, in order to take
patients from the facility who were in need of extended or long?term care and who had no resources or
were undocumented. In response to an inquiry of whether the System follows up with these patients, Mr.
Small stated that they ceased to be the System's patients at the point of execution.

Sylvia Edwards, Chief Operating Of?cer of Oak Forest Hospital, stated that there are two contracts with
New York Boys Management. One contract takes care of approximately twenty-four undocumented
individuals; the other contract covers skilled care that is required for patients from other facilities,
primarily those from Struger Hospital.

Life Safety Occurrence

Johnny Brown, Chief Operating Of?cer of Stroger Hospital, reported on a life safety occurrence
involving a power outage on Tuesday, September low. This occurred at the construction site for the new
garage, where an electrical connection was severed. The emergency generator engaged, however, the
power spike damaged some computer circuits and closets. There was no data loss or equipment failure,
but Cemer went down and connectivity was lost in many places temporarily. Staff responded well; as
Cemer was down, they went to a manual mode.

Mr. Small stated that he could distribute a brie?ng paper2 on the steps taken to protect the data systems.
There is an entire team involved; all security levels are well maintained and audited in order to protect the
systems throughout the organization.

Update on preparations ofPraposed iscai Year .2009 Budget

Mr. Small gave an update on the preparations of the proposed fiscal year 2009 System budget. He stated
that a high-level summary on the prOPOStll is being prepared and re?ned, which will include various
options to consider and discuss with the County. An internal meeting has been scheduled for September
22"? with the following individuals: Chairman Batts; Finance Chairman Carvalho; Mr. Small; Pitt Calkin,
interim Chief Financial Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Donna Dunnings,
Chief Financial Of?cer of Cook County; and individuals from the County?s Department of Budget and
Management.

Ljodate and Review from Heaitir Management Associates

Matt Powers, of Health Management Associates, presented an overview of some key issues relative to the
System?s major source of patient service funding. (See Attachment Discussion and review took
place with relation to the various ?Jnding sources, including those related to Intergovernmental Transfers
(IGT) and Bene?ts Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA) funding.

Mr. Small related an update with regard to the pending state plan amendment. He stated that a question
had been posed, inquiring whether the County would receive the full amount of the disproportional funds,
or whether the state would claim any portion. The answer to the question was that the state was not going
to claim any portion.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

SEPTEMBER 19, 2008

Page 5

An overview of some of these funding sources by some Directors with prior experience in these areas was

offered, to be provided at a future meeting of the Finance Committee. Chairman Batts requested a
glossary and diagram of the funding flow3; Mr. Small indicated that this could be provided.

Miscellaneous

Chairman Batts requested that the Board be regularly provided with copies of media reports that are
relevant to the System?. 

Chairman Batts inquired whether the funding earmarked for demolition of the Administration Building on
Polk Street could be instead used for improvements at Oak Forest HoSpital and Fantus Clinic.

Mr. Small responded that the demolition is included in the current Master Plan for the campus. He will
schedule an update on the issue as an agenda item in Octobers, and will invite representatives from the
County?s Bureau of Capital Planning and Policy to address the question.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Human Resources Committee Meeting of September 12, 2008

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Human Resources
Committee for the meeting of September 12, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Finance Committee Meeting of September 12, 2008*
note: Contracts and Procurement Items were approved by
the Finance Committee at this meeting.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Finance
Committee for the meeting of September 12, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

UPDATE FROM AD HOC SWTEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE

Director Greenspan presented an update on the Strategic Planning process. They are continuing to build
the database that will be necessary to describe appropriately the current position and trends, and to
provide insight into the next few years. They are starting to utilize the Illinois Department of Public
Health database to get hospital profiles and are expecting to complete a 2007 set of reports based on that
profile data. Further critique and re?ning of the data will produce a five-year trend going back to 2003.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

SEPTEMBER 19, 2008

Page 6

Director Greenspan stated that the goal is to convert the data into reports, which will be posted onto the

internal website. An additional goal is to produce in time for the ?rst Board planning session a resource

manual which will provide a compilation of the ?ve-year trends. He stated that the website is beginning to

take shape; access for Board members is expected to he opened soon. They are continuing to convert the
data into better and more useful information over the next couple of weeks.

The opening plenary session is expected to take place in October; Director Greenspan circulated a
proposed draft list of invitees. He pointed out that this was an early draft, and asked the Board to review
the list and provide any feedback or suggestions for additional invitees. The goal of this session is to
provide stakeholders with an understanding of what is to be accomplished; it will include a presentation
of historic data. He is hoping to fit in a date in October for this purpose, but it may get pushed back.

With regard to the large number of invitees and the possibility of breaking the meeting into sessions,
Director GreenSpan indicated that the intent was to have a large opening plenary session which would
include all invitees; this would be followed by a series of meetings.

 

PRESENT AND DISCUSS CONTRACT FOR RECRUITMENT FIRM FOR
PERMANENT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER POSITION
FOR THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

PRESENT AND DISCUSS CONTRACT FOR INTERIM CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER
FOR THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
(See Attachment 

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Butler, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et
seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The recruitment, credentialing, discipline
or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.? THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Butler, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

On the subject of candidate recruitment for the selection of permanent Chief Executive Officer of the
System, a document was circulated with regard to possible dates to set up three meetings for the
following:

Week of December 8, 2008: ?Book review,? or presentation on paper of candidates. This meeting should
take roughly two or two and one-half hours, and will be held by the ad hoc
Search Committee.

Week of January 5, 2009: IH round of interviews {roughly nine or ten candidates, with each interview
lasting approximately one hour). This meeting would last from 8:00 AM. to
5:00 RM, and will be held by the ad hoc Search Committee.

Week of January 19, 2009: 2MI round of interviews (roughly four or ?ve candidates). The candidates
meet with medical leadership, executive team, etc. The Search Committee
will ?rst meet, then a second session will be held with the remaining
Directors.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 19, 2003

Page 7

Chairman Batts stated that Roz Turner would be responsible for setting the dates, and would be' In contact
with the Directors for this purpose.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to direct the Finance Committee to review
and approve the contract with the recruitment ?rm of Quick Leonard Kiel'fer International, and to
subsequently report such action to the Board.

Director Carvalho requested clari?cation on the motion. He asked whether the Finance Committee was
being delegated the authority to allow the contract with the recruitment firm of Quick Leonard Kieffer
International to move forwardlupon its approval by the Finance Committee and thereafter, to report such
action to the Board.

Chairman Batts responded affirmatively.
On the motion, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to direct the Human Resources Committee
to review and approve the job description for the position of permanent Chief Executive Of?cer of
the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, and to subsequently report such action to the
Board. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

With regard to the contract for Interim Chief Medical Of?cer for the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System, Director Zopp pointed out that the contract for Dr. Raba contained a typographical error in the
contract period section. The contract expiration date should be March 21, 2009.

Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Mn?oz, moved to approve the proposed contract
with John Michael Raba, MD, as amended, for services provided as interim Chief Medical Of?cer
of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS

Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.

Secretary DeLeon replied that there were none.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
SEPTEMBER 19, 2003
Page 3
ADJOURNMENT

Director Zopp, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

WW1 3%

Warren L. Batts, Chairman

Attest:

., 75

/IV(atthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

 

The following was requested or was indicated as a Follow-up item at this meeting:

1 Provide cepy of APM study {1998!} 999). On page 3. (Randall Mark)

2 Provide brie?ng paper on steps taken to protect data systems. On page 4. (David Small)
3 Request for glossary and diagram of funding flow. On page 5. (David Small)

4 Request that the Board be regularly provided with copies of media reports that are relevant
to the System. On page 5. (David Small)

5 Schedule an update on the Master Plan for the Stroger Campus as an agenda item in
October, and will invite representatives from the County's Bureau of Capital Planning and
Policy to address the question. On page 5. (David Small)

'5 Schedule three meetings with regard to recruitment of permanent Chief Executive Of?cer of
the System. On page 6. (Roz Turner)

Medicaid Revenue Stream ?Background 
Main Points of Presentation

- Background 

- Finance Office/
Medicaid Office

- HMA

Main Points

Recap of HMA
contract items

Revenue tracking
repon

Recap of HMA Contract

Cost report preparation? fundamental to Medicare reimbursement and
critical In Medicaid transition (approximately 400- 500 working hours)

Stroger (60% of all Medicaid patient revenue)

17 Clinics

Assisted in responding to Medicare audit

Cost-report related applications
Coordinating reimbursement and policy activities with state (approximately
300 working hours)

andge est pea/or major revenues associated with actively seeking opportunities
house eeping

- Provider assessmenUPending SPA with CMS
- Weekly meetings with key staff
- Outcomes

Clinics, PCCM, Disease Management

Unique about HMA

Summary Tables Background

SFYO7-SFY09 FY09 
Background

Healthcare and Family Services single state
Medicaid Agency

CMS is the federal agency which approves the
Medicaid state plan

State and County have established their relationship
in a series of intergovernmental agreements

These revenues only include the claims-based
volume payments eg. no DSH, BIPA

FY07-FY09 CPTF Payment Comparison
(0329 Fund)

Comparison 12 Months JULY AUG SEPT OCT OCTINOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR

FY00 Payments Payment Mn Payment Mo Payment Me Payment Mn Payment Me Payment Mn Payment Me Payment Mo Payment Me Payment 010

JULY 2000 AUG 2000 SEPT 2000 act 2000 ocmtov 2000 DEC 2000 JAN 2009 FEB 2009 MAR 2009 APR 2009
Total 332.400.207.95 343.201.910.29 330.309.090.34

 

FY00 Payment: Payment 100 Payment Mu Payment Me Payment 000 Payment Mn Payment Mo Payment Me Payment Mo Payment Me Payment Me
JULY 2007 AUG 2007 SEPT 2007 OCT 2007 OCTMOV 2007 DEC 2007 JAN 2000 FEB 2000 MAR 2000 APR 2000
Total 320.001.000.10 337.100.020.10 333.342.103.30 030.300.501.47 304.410.010.20 50.020.002.07 320.101.000.74 330.003.004.02 324.007.210.41 030.131.170.01

 

FY07 Payments Payment Mo Payment Mo PaymeIWII-lle Payment Me Payment Me Payment Mo Payment Me Payment Mn Payment Me Payment 100
JULY 2000 AUG 2000 SEPT 2000 061? 2000 DCTIMOU 2000 DEC 2000 JAN 2007 FEB 2007 MAR 2007 APR 2007
Total 330.701.133.42 037.300.400.30 540.407.010.31 330.437.120.24 300.732.200.40 017.007.227.30 333.102.023.00 037.007.001.21 331.000.000.07 344.000.020.00

 

 

Note - Grass Payments
DI-vlda by 2 for Eden-m Mummy Revenue!)

 

 

 

FY00 Payments Payment 100 Payment Illa Payment 00 
MAY 2000 JUN 2000 YTD Average
Total 5112.007.007.00  537.340.102.30 

 

FY00 Payment: Payment Payment Mn Payment 00 
MAY 2000 JUN 2000 YTEI Average
Total 542.002.500.20 535.410.007.30 534.071.401.45 

 

 

 

 

 

FY07 Payment: Payment 000 Payment 100 Payment 15 
MAY 2007 JUN 2007 12 MONTHS Average
Total 540.303.114.61 344.000.040.10 ?00.400.003.04 533.030.700.00

 

 

 

FY09 CPTF Comparison by faculty)

 

 

FY99 Grou Payment:
[Dlrtol byzfor Him-Illa Hal County Havana-I)
Total
.1 Hunger Hosp ofcoolt County

 

Corn Connor Phamtaoy

Cook County Englowood Hoai'th Gontar

$92
$21 #251479? 929.397.249.24 521.999.999.19

 

Payment Mo
JULY 2999

Payment 140
AUG 2909

Payment Mo
SEPT 2999

          

$433,993.79 91.499.415.99
$395,224.97 ?79.54195
53.92923 91 59.72794

922,459.04 539.9791 3

PW Payment

$112 7 7.99
999319791419

92 720 942.99
?509,134.99
$253,947.31

991 (197.99

        
       

YEAR TO DATE Total

199.997-

         

?lumttva Only

     

 

 

Fontul Huii?l Gonhr

   

Fantul Hall'lh Cmtar Pharmacy

Dr Jon-go Priato Health Cantor

Austin Cook Countyconvn HG (Goal: Gaul-wring;
Clooro Hoallh Cantu (Cook Comm

Logan Square Hoallh Cantor (Cook County]
Woman Hool?1 Contnr [Pa?ant Account: . Wash}

Vish Clinic of Cook County

$1,399,192.32 sainomoa nonomso
$131,3ama gonna.?
939357.94
517.9175
$99,401.53 $102,301.49
540395.93 50.13233
51.43913 tom

$77,226.42

 

Dalt Fomt Hospital

Oak. Forest Hospital Phannaoy

 

Oak Forut Hospital OP Plug 

Oak Forest Hospital FFS

Woody Wim?IDn Honll?h Cantor [Oak Fora-st Hospita
Limoln Mornorlal Health Cantor [Oak Forool Hooplt
WWI-loom Cantor (Oak Fm Hospital]
Oak Forest Specialty Clinic (Ambuhtory Hoaith Car

 

$3,979,109.39 smasooam 

$121,094.92 ?77.721419

$209,995.16 51.123.929.99 5515.34.15

$9,119,971.79

$162,241.57
$100,555.13

5593935933

          

 

                

 

$2,795,397.23
$449,499.91

          

 

 

994393.92
939529.99
579.937.94
$47,919.94

$999.99

$71,944.99

Seamus
mas-tom
mam
997139992

97.397.49I
$992,999.94

 

94.414.199.74
$299,199.99
$999,993.31

99297959931
99.397.997.19

$9?l99932

 

$5,071 .91 97,159.03

95,494.30 39,524 .79
$41,929.47 $47,252.97
$33,359.99 ?9.75959

999599.25 9129.42D.73

 

Provldant Hooplta] of Cook County

 

Prauldent Ho: all Cook Gaun Pit-ll
va?idmt Hospilnl of Omit County FF9

Provident Hoopiht Sangdaoko



NaorSouth Hoal?aGantarth Hospital Farm

.1 sun-agar Hospital Fool'orSoMoo

99.291.999.91 $4,199,999.44

$139 994.17

$491 997.99

$19,479.93
$19,m.73
$1 19,999.94
$95,199.91

$391,999.19

$99,999.91
931.7293?

3109,9993?

$99,907.72
$99,419.92
?99.79119
9999.722.?
91.297.994.72 

 

 

511.135.950.12

9924.499.?

53.712.199.71

5214,9033?

544.949.999.491
99 999.94

 

91 9.59929 99,995.75

9143.79430 $121,599.79
$7,519.32 $19,979.19
$37,995.31

5193.749.? 543.9995?

$49,949.93

$63,911.11

932,490,29739 943.297.919.319 939.339.999.94

$29,799.99
9422.957.?
$34,999.97
9119,43924

$271,193.42

?12.947.497.99

 

39.991791
5149.999.?
$11,399.29
939313.991

999,397.91

 

9199.99139I

51.999.929.44

 

 

$1 99,999.49
$499,799.99

51.994.993.99

937.349.192.39I ?49.199.949.32

 

I. Wk

9/

(51:1



PART I

 

AGREEMENT BETWEEN

APPROVED
JOHN MICHAEL RABA, MD. AND

THE COUNTY or coorocoorr COUNTY HEALTH AND SPHALSJEEW

This Agreement is made and entered into by and between the Co
politic and corporate, (?County? through its Cook County Health and Ho
and John Michael Raba, M. D. of 301 North Ehnwood, Oak Park, 60302, a sole

proprietorfmdependent contractor, ("Contractor").

 

 

WHEREAS, the System makes health care services available to persons who reside in Cook
County, Dlinois, regardless of their ability to pay, including the provision of health care to the indigent
in a pro?cient and compassionate manner, and performs this ?mction through the System which,
through its health care delivery system, provides ambulatory and hospital health services; and,

- WHEREAS, the System retains individuals to provide professional services related to the
operations of the System and its hospitals; and

WHEREAS, the System requires an individual to serve as the Interim Chief Medical O?icer
(?Interim for the System, and

WHEREAS, Contractor is an independent contractor who possesses the quali?cations and
experience necessary to serve as the Interim CMO for the System; and

WHEREAS, the County wishes to contract with Contractor for the provision of Services
described in this Agreement and Contractor wishes to contract with the County to provide these
Services;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual promises, covenants,
agreements and warranties contained herein, the parties agree as follows:

I. SERVICES

The Contractor agrees to perform the services that are described in Exhibit A, Statement of Work.

II. CONTRACT PERIOD

This Agreement shall commence on September 22, 2003 and shall continue until March 21, 8.
This Agreement may be extended upon the mutual agreement of Contractor and the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System Board (?System Board").

PAYMENT I
Payment to Contractor by the County shall be in the amount of Eighty-one thousand, Five hundred

dollars ($31,500) over the term of this Agreement payable in six Contractor

Part1

shall be required to provide the services required herein no less than twenty-?ve (25) hours per week
during the Contract Period.

Contractor shall submit invoices to the System in triplicate on County Invoice Form 29A on a
basis. The County shall have the right to examine the relevant books of Contractor for the
purpose of auditing the same with reference to all charges made to the County. In the event
Contractor receives payment under this Contract reimbursement for which is later disallowed by the
County pursuant to the provisions of Part II - General Conditions,- Contractor shall refund
the disallowed amount to the County on request.

IV. GENERAL CONDITIONS

This Agreement incorporates and is subject to the provisions attached hereto as Part II-General
Conditions.

V. EXHIBIT

The Agreement incorporates the following Exhibit attached hereto:
amen A, Statement of Work.

- VI. ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

In the event that there is a con?ict between or among any of the terms and conditions of any of the
documents described below (which are collectively referred to herein as the the order of
precedence to be used in interpreting the documents, from highest to lowest in priority and
precedence, shall be as follows:

(1) Part 1; Agreement;
(2) Part IL General Conditions;
(3) Exhibit A, Statement of Work.

The parties agree-that the Contract is the complete Contract between the parties and replaces any

prior oral or written Contract or communications between the parties relating to the subject matter
hereof. 

Part1

Part II
GENERAL CONDITIONS

CONTENTS

SUBCONTRACTWG OR ASSIGWT OF CONTRACT OR CONTRACT

FUNDS

PERSONNEL

INSURANCE

GC-04 INSPECTION AND RESPONSIBILITY

DIDEMNIFICATION

GC-OE PAYMENT

PREPAID FEES

TAXES

PRICE REDUCTION

0 CONTRACTOR CREDITS

DISPUTES

DEFAULT

REMEDIES

CONTRACTORS REMEDIES

G01 5 DELAYS

MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS

PATENTS, COPYRICEITS AND LICENSES

3 COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS

MINORITY AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
MATERIAL DATA SAFETY SHEET

CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR

ACCIDENT REPORTS

USE OF COUNTY PREMISES AND RESOURCES
GENERAL NOTICE

GC-zs TERWATION FOR CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT
G026 GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES

PEILH

GU HI DO --Cl ?all 01 Ch U1 43- Jh- 45- LIJ

5325555

(3027 STANDARD OF DELIVERABLES
(3023 DELIVERY
GC-29 QUANTITIES .
CONTRACT INIERPRETATION
(3031 CONFIDENTIALITY AND OWNERSIHP OF DOCUMENTS
(SC-32 WATTON 0F RECORDS
GOVERNING LAW
(3034 WAIVER
ENTIRE CONTRACT .
(EC-36 FORCE MAJEURE OR UNAVOIDABIE DELAYS
CONTRACTOR NO TI-IERD PARTY BENEFICIARIES

P211111

- OR ASSIGNWT OF CONTRACT OR CONTRACT
FUNDS

Once awarded, this Contract shall not be subcontracted er assigned, in whole or in part, withoutthe
advance written approval of the Purchasing Agent, which approval shall be granted or withheld at the
sole discretion of the Purchasing Agent. In no case, however, shall such approval relieve the
Contractor from its obligations or change the terms of the Contract. The Contractor shall not transfer
or assign any Contract ?mds or any interest therein due or to become due without the advancewritten
approval of the Purchasing Agent. The unauthorized subcontracting or assignment of the Contract, in
whole or in part, or the unauthorized transfer or assignment of any Contract ?rnds, eitherin whole or
in part, or any interest therein, which shall be due or are to become due the Contractor shall have no effect
on the County and are null and void.

Prior to the commencement of the Contract, the Contractor shall identify in waiting to the Purchasing
Agent the any and all subcontractors it intends to use in the performance of the Contract. The
Purchasing Agent shall have the right to disapprove any subcontractor. Identi?cation of
subcontractors to the Purchasing Agent shallbe in addition to any communications with County of?ces .
other than the Purchasing Agent. All subcontractors shall be subject to the terms of this Contract.
Contractor shall incorporate into all subcontracts all of the provisions of the Contract which affect such
subcontract. Copies of subcontracts shall be provided to the Purchasing Agent upon request.

The Contractor must disclose the name and business address of each subcontractor. attorney. lobbviit,
accountant. consultant and any other person or entity whom the Contractor has retained or expects to
retain in connection with the Matter. as well as the nature of the relationship. and the totgl? amount of
the fees paid or estimated to be paid. The Contractor is not required to disclose employees who are
p_aid or estimated to be paid. The Contractor is not required to disclose employees who are paid
sole] throu the contractor's re ar a' oll.? "Lobh 'st" means an erson or who undertakes
to in?uence any legislation or administrative action on behalf of any person or enn_ty' other than: 11a
not?for?pro?t entity. on an unpaid basis. or (2) himself. "Lobbyist? also means any person or com
any part of whose duties as an employee of another includes undertaking to influence-anv lem?slative
or administrative action. Ifthe Contractor is uncertain whether g__di_sclosure is required under this
Section the Contractor must either ask the Cormtv. whether disclosure is required or make the
disclosure. 

The County reserves the right to prohibit any person from entering any County facility for any reason.
All contractors and subcontractors of the Contractor shall be accountable to the Director of the Using
Department or his designee while on any County property and shall abide by all rules and regulations
imposed by the County.

PERSONNEL
The quality, experience and availability of personnel employed by the Contractor is of the essence. The
Contractor shall provide the County with a list of all key personnel to he used on the project and their

designated assignment. The list shall include the quali?cations of each person named. The County
may at any time request, in writing, the Contractor to remove any of the Contractor?s assigned

PartII

personnel for cause and forthwith furnish to the County other acceptable personnel with thirty (30)
days of noti?cation. Notwithstanding the County's approval of Contractor's personnel, the Contractor
shall be responsible to County for all work performed pursuant to this Contract by Contractor's
employees, subcontractors or others who may be retained by the Contractor with the approval ofthe

County.
GC-03 INSURANCE

Contractor shall purchase and maintain at all times during the term of this Contract msurance
coverage which 15 satisfactory to the County and will satisfactorily msure the Contractor against
claims and liabilities which arise or could arise because of the performance or nonperformance of the
Contract. All insurance required hereunder shall meet the requirements ofthe County?s Department of
Risk Management and shall name the County as an additional insured unless such designation is
unavailable due to commercial practices in the insurance industry as to a particular type of coverage.
With the exception of certi?cates required to he submitted with the Proposal, Contract shall deliverto
the County satisfactory certi?cates evidencing compliance with this insurance provision prior to
commencing performance under the Contract.

INSPECTION AND RESPONSIBILITY

At any and at all times during the term of the Contract and at any location where the Contract is
performed, the County shall have a right to inapect any Deliverables provided in carrying out this
Contract. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for the quality and standards of all
Deliverables ?irnished under this Contract Deliverable: may be rejected by the Purchasm gAgent author
the Director of the Using Department if they fail to meet Contract requirements or are provided in a
manner which does not meet Contract requirements. In the event of such rejection, Deliverables shall
be replaced and;Ir or reaperforrned by the Contractor and at no additional cost to the County. Any
Deliverables rejected shall he removed within a reasonable time from the premises of the County at
the entire expense of the Contractor, after notice has been given by the Countyto the Contractorthat
such-Deliverables have been rejected.

MEANIFICATION

The Contractor covenants and agrees to indemnify and save harmless the County and its
commissioners, ol?cials, employees, agents and representatives, and their respective heirs, successors
and assigns, ?om and against any and all costs, expenses, attorney?s fees, losses, damages andliabilitirs
incurred or suffered directly or indirectly from or attributable to any claims arising out of or incident to
the performance or. nonperformance of the Contract by the Contractor, or the acts or'omissions ofthe
of?cers, agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors, licensees or invitees of the Contractor. The
Contractor expressly understands and agrees that any Performance Bond or insurance protection
required of the Contractor, or otherwise provided by the Contractor, shall in no way limit the
responsibility to indemnity the County as hereinabove provided.

PartlI

(EC-06 PAYNIENT

All invoices submitted by the Contractor shall be in accordance with the cost provisions contained in
the Contract Documents and shall contain a detailed description of the Deliverables for which
payment is requested. All invoices shall re?ect the amounts invoiced by and the amounts paid to the
Contractor as of the date of the invoice, and shall be submitted together with a properly completed
County Voucher form (29A). Invoices for new charges shall not include "past due" amounts, if any,
which amounts must be set forth on a separate invoice. No payments shall be made with respect to
invoices which do not include the County Voucher form or which otherwise fail to comply with the
requirements ofthis paragraph. Contractor shall not be entitled to invoice the County for any late fees
or other penalties

PREPAID FEES

In the event this Contract is terminated by either party, for cause or otherwise, and the Countyhas prepaid
for any Deliverables, Contractor shall re?md to the County, on a prorated basis to the effective date
of termination, all amounts prepaid for Deliverables not actually provided as of the effective date of
the termination. The re?ind shall be made within fourteen (14) days of the effective date of
termination.

GC?as TAXES

Federal Excise Tax does not apply to materials purchased by the County by virtue of Exemption
Ce?i?cate No- lilinois Retailers? Occupation Tax, Use Tax and Municipal Retailers?
Occupation Tax do not apply to deliverables, materials or services purchased by the County by virtue
of statute. The price or prices quoted herein shall include any and all other federal andfor state, direct
auditor indirect taxes which apply to this Contract. The County?s State of Illinois Sales TaxExemp?on
Identi?cation No. is 

PRICE REDUCTION

Ifat any time after the contract award, Contractor maker a general price reduction in the price of any
of the Deliverables, the equivalent price reduction based on similar quantities andfor considerations
shall apply to this Contract for the duration of the Contract period. For purposes of this Section 
09, Price Reduction, a general price reduction shall include reductions in the e??ective price charged
by Contractor by reason of rebates, ?nancial incentives, discounts, value points or other bene?ts with
respect to the purchase ofthe Deliverables. Such price reductions shall be effective at the same time andin
the same manner as the reduction Contractor makes in the price of the Deliverables to its prospective
customers generally.

CONTRACTOR CREDITS
To the extent the Contractor gives credits toward future purchases of goods or services, ?nancial

incentives, discounts, value points or other bene?ts based on the purchase ofthe materials or services
provided for under this Contract, such credits belong to the County and not any Speci?c using

PartlI

departurent. Contractor shall re?ect any such credits on its invoices and in the amounts it invoicesthe
County.

DISPUTES

Any dispute arislg under the Contract between the County and Contractor shall be decided by the
Purchasing Agent. The complaining party shall submit a written statement detailing the dispute and
specifying the speci?c relevant Contract provision(s) to the Purchasing Agent. Upon request of the
Purchasing Agent, the party complained against shall respond to the complaint inwriting within ?ve
days of such request. The Purchasing Agent will reduce his decision to writing and mail or otherwise
furnish a copy thereof to the Contractor and the Director of the Using Department. The decisionof
the Purchasing Agentwill be ?nal and binding. Dispute resolution as provided herein shall be a condition
precedent to any other action at law or in equity. However, unless a notice is issued by the
Purchasing Agent indicating that additional time is required to review a dispute, the parties may
exercise their contractual remedies, if any, if no decision is made within sixty (60) days following
noti?cation to the Purchasing Agent of a dispute. No inference shall be drawn from the absence of a
decision bythePurchasing Agent Notwithstanding a dispute, Contractor shall continueto discharge all its
obligations, duties and responsibilities set forth inthe Contract during any dispute resolution proceeding
unless otherwise agreed to by the County writing.

GC-12 DEFAULT

Contractor shall be In default hereunder in the event of a. material breach by Contractor of any term or
condition of this Contract including, but not limited to, a representation or warranty, where
Contractor has failed to cure such breach within ten (10) days after written notice of breach is given to
Contractorby the County, setting of suchbreaclt Inthe event Contractor shallbreach any
material terms or conditions ofthis Contract on morethan one occasion during anytwelve month period
during the term hereof; or in the event Contractor expresses an unwillingness or inability to continue
performing the Contract in accordance with its terms, the County may, at its option, declare the
Contractorto be in default and the County shall be entitled to. exercise all availableremedies including, but
not limited to, termination of the Contract, without affording the Contractor ?nther opportunity to cure
such breach. Failure of County to give written notice of breach to the Contractor shall not be deemed
to be a waiver of the County?s right to assert such breach at a later time, should the Contractor
commit a subsequent breach of this Contract.

County shallbe in default hereunder if any material breach ofthe Contract by County occurs which is not
cured by the County-within ninety {90) days after written notice has been given by Contractorto
the County, setting forth the nature of such breach

REMEDIES

Following notice of material breach to Contractor, the County reserves the right to withhold
payments otherwise owed to Contractor until such time as Contractor has cured the breach

Ifthe Contractor fails to remedy a material breach during the ten (10) day cure period pursuant to

Partll

General Condition (SC-12, Default, or if Contractor commits a subsequent material breachudthinatwelve
month period or expresses an unwillingness or inabilityto continue performing the Contractin accordance
with its terms, the Cotmty shall have the right to terminate this Contract upon written notice to the
Contractor which shall set forth the e?'ective date of such tennination

In addition, the County shall have the right to pursue all remedies in law or couity.

GC-14 CONTRACT REMEDIES

Ifthe County has been noti?ed of breach and fails to remedy the breach during the ninety(90) day
cure period pursuant to General Condition GC-12, Default, the Contractor shall have the right to
terminate this Contract upon not less than thirty (30) days prior written notice to the County, which notice
shall set forth the e??ective date of tennination.

Contractor shall have the right to pursue all remedies available in law or equity. In all cases the
Contractor's damages shall be those actual provable damages not to exceed the amount of the
Contract as awarded by the Cook County Board of Commissioners less all amounts paid to
Contractor. In no event shall Contractor be entitled to any consequential damages. Irrespective ofthe
exercise of remedies hereunder, Contractor shall not disrupt the County's operations or repossess
any component thereof.

DELAYS

Contractor agrees that no charges or claims for darnages shall be made by Contractor for any delays or
hindrances ?om any cause whatsoever during the progress of any portion of this Contract.

GC-IG MODIFICATIONS AND ANIENDMENTS

The parties may ?om time to time during the term of the Contract make modi?cations and
amendments to the Contract but only as provided in this section. Such modi?cations and amendments
shall only be made by mutual agreement in writing. Modi?cations and amendments which individually
or mimulatively result in additional cost of $1,000.00 or greater or which extend the term of the Contract
by thirty (30) days or more shall not be deemed as authorized without the approval of the Cook
County Board of Commissioners. Modi?cations and amendments which increase cost by less than
$1,000.00 or which do not extend the term of the Contract by more than thirty (30) days may only he
made with the written approval of the Purchasing Agent.

Subject to the foregoing, the Director of the Using Department may, by written order, make changes
with respect to the dates of delivery and places of performance of the Contract, provided that any
such changes shall not increase the Contract price or the time required for Contract performance.

Contractor is hereby noti?ed that, except for modi?cations and amendments which are made in

accordance with this Section (EC-16, Modi?cations and Amendments, no County department or
employee thereof has authority to make any modi?cation or amendment to this Contract.

PartII

GC-17 PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES

Contractor shall ?rrnish the Director of the Using Department with all licenses required for the
County to utilize any software, including ?rmware or middleware, provided by Contractor as part of
the Deliverables. Such licenses shall he clearly marked with a reference to the number of this County
Contract. Contractor shall also ?rmish a copy of such licenses to the Purchasing Agent. Unless
otherwise stated in these Contract documents, such licenses shall he perpetual and shall not limit the
number of persons who may utilize the software on behalf of the County.

Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify the County, its of?cers, agents, employees and
af?liates from and defend, at its own expense (including reasonable attorneys', accountants' and
consultants fees), any suit or proceeding brought against County based upon a claim that the
ownership andfor use of equipment, hardware and so?ware or any part thereof provided to the
County or utilized in performing Contractor?s seryices constitutes an infringement of any patent,

copyright or license or any other property right.

In the event the use of any equipment, hardware or software or any part thereof is enjoined,
Contractor with all reasonable speed and due diligence shall provide or otherwise secure for Com-try,
at the Contractor's election, one of the following: the right to continue use of the equipment,
hardware or software; an equivalent system having the Speci?cations as provided in this Contract; or
Contractor shall modify the system or its component parts so that they become non?infringing while
performing in a substantially similar manner to the original system, meeting the requirements of this
Contract.

GC413 COMPLIANCE WITH THE IAWS

The Contractor shall observe and comply with the laws, ordinances, regulations and codes of the
Federal, State, County and other local government agencies which may in any manner affect the
performance of the Contract including, but not limited to, those County Ordinances set forth in the
Certi?cations attached hereto and incorporated herein. Assurance of compliance with this
requirement by the Contractor?s employees, agents or subcontractors shall be the responsibility ofthe
Contractor. 

The Contractor shall secure and pay for all federal, state and local licenses, permits and fees required
hereunder

- (SC-19 MINORITY AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
COOK COUNTY ORDINANCE DIVISION 6, SECTION 34-275 34-285

1. POLICY AND GOALS

A. - It is the policy of the County of Cook to prevent discrimination in the award of or
participation in County contracts and to eliminate arbitrary barriers for participation, as both prime and
subcontractors, in such contracts by local businesses certi?ed as Minority Business Enterprises (MBE)
and Women-owned Business Enterprises (WEB). In furtherance-of this policy, the Cook County
Board of Commissioners has adopted a Minority? and Women-owned Business Enterprise

Partll

Ordinance (the "Ordinance") which establishes a "best e??orts" goal of awarding not less than
thirty-?ve (3 of the annual total dollar amount of profesSional and consulting service contracts
and sole source agreements to certi?ed MBEs and WBEs.

B. A contractor may achieve the contract MBEAVBE participation goals by its status
as a MBE or by entering into ajoint venture with one or more MBES and/or 
by subcontracting a portion of the work to one or more MBEs or by entering into a
Mentor? Protege Agreement with a MBE or by the indirect participation of MBEs or
WBEs in other aspects of the contractor's business; or by a combination of the foregoing.

C. A contractor?s failure to carry out its MBEAVBE commitments in the course of a
contractor's performance shall constinite a material breach of the contract, and if such breach is not
appropriately cured, may result in the termination of the contract or such other remedy authorized
by the Ordinance as the County deems appropriate.

II. REQUIRED SUBMITTALS

To be considered responsive to the requirements of the Ordinance: a contractor for
professional and consulting service contracts shall submit items A, and listed below; and a
contractor for sole source agreements, shall submit items A and listed below. All documentation
submitted by a contractor shall be reviewed bythe Contract Compliance Administrator. Failure to submit
one of the items required in accordance with these general conditions shall be cause to consider the
contractor?s proposal non?responsive and be rejected. 

A. Af?rmative Action Plan

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, a copy of its current internal a?irmative action
plan If contractor has no intemal a?irmative action plan, contractor shall submit a statement stating why
contractor has no such plan In lieu of an internal af?rmative action plan, a contractor may submit a copy
of its current Letter of Compliance for the United States Department of Labor, Of?ce of Federal
Contract Compliance Programs.

B. Contractor?s MBEIWBE Efforts Documentation

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, supporting documentation which evidences e?brts
the contractor has taken in attempting to achieve the County's ?best efforts" participation
goals.

C. Contractor?s Statement - Use Professionals

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, a statement which discloses how the contractor
intends to maximize the use of its MBEIWBE professionals in the course of performing the contract.

NON-COWLLANCE

PartIl

If the' County of Cook determines that the contractor has failed to comply with its
contractual commitments or any portion of the Ordinance, it will notily the contractor of such non-
compliance and may take any and all appropriate actions as set forth within the Ordinance.

IV. REPORTWGIRECORD-KEEPN REQUIREMENTS

The contractor shall comply with the reporting and record?keeping; requirements as mayr be
established by the Contract Compliance Administrator. Upon award of a contract, contractor is
responsible for acquiring all necessary County reporting and record-keeping forms which will be made
available in the Of?ce of Contract Compliance.

V. - EQUAL OPPORTUNITY

. Compliance with MBE and WEB requirements will not diminish or supplant Equal
Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights provisions as otherwise required by law as they relate to
contractor and subcontractor obligations

MATERIAL DATA SAFETY SHEET

Where required under the Illinois "Toxic Substance Disclosure To Employees Act", Compiled
Statutes, 2002, 320 ILCS 2552? 1, Contractor shall submit with each delivery of Deliverables, a
Material Safety Data Sheet.

CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR

The .Contractor agrees to inform the County on a timely basis of all of the Contractor's interests, if
any, which are or which the Contractor reasonably believes may be incompatible with any interest of
the County. The Contractor shall take notice of and comply with the Cook County Lobbyist
Registration Ordinance (No. 93?0-22, 6-22-93). Neither the Contractor nor any of its employees,
agents or subcontractors shall use for business or personal gain, or make other irnprOper use of,
con?dential information which is acquired in connection with the Contract. To the extent
Contractor will have access to the County's protected health information in performing its
responsibilities under this Contract, Contractor shall contact the Chief Privacy O?icer for the Using
Departments) and shall execute the (30qu business associate agreement prior to performing any
responsibilities which involve access to protected health information. 

GC-ZIZ ACCIDENT REPORTS

Contractor shall provide the Purchasing Agent and the Director of the Using Department with
prompt written noti?cation (no later than twenty?four (24) hours) of any occurrence, on County
premises or otherwise, which pertains in any way to this Contract and which results tn either bodily
injury to employees or third parties or property damage. The report shall include the name of
person(s) injured, if any; name of the injured person's employer, if any; the date, time and locationof
the occurrence; description of the extent of injury andfor damage; the name(s) of wimesses; the names
of any providers known to have provided treatment for injuries sustained; and such other information as

Part?

may be required by the Colmty. The Contractor shall notify the local police regarding any 0mm
requiring an o?cial police record. The report submitted to the County should indicate whether the
police were noti?ed and, E30, the number of the police report. 

COOK COUNTY PURCHASING AGENT 1 13
North Clark Street. Room 1018

 tender to the County all Deliverables relating to said portions of the Contract, whether
completed or in process. Contractor shall re?'ain from incurring any further costs with respect to
portions of the Contract which are terminated except as speci?cally approved by the Purchasing Agent.

CFC-26 GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES

The Contractor shall ?rrnish all guarantees and warranties applicable to' the Deliverables to the

Director of the Using Department prior to or at the time of delivery. All Deliverables shall be covered

bytbe most favorable commercial warranties and guarantees the Contractor gives to any customerfor

the same or substantially similar Deliverables or Services. The rights and remedies so provided shall be in
addition to and shall not limit any rights afforded to County under this Contract.

To the extent Contractor provides Deliverables manufactured by another entity, Contractor shall
transfer original product warranty and any rights to manufacturer's related services to the County and
shall submit all appropriate documentation of said transfer to the Director of the Using Department
prior to or at the time the Contractor tenders the Deliverables.

STANDARD OF DELIVERABIES

Except as may be expressly stated inthe Special Conditions or Speci?cations of this Contract only new,
originally manufactured Deliverables will be accepted by the County. The County will not accept any
Deliverables that .have been re?lrbished, rebuilt, restored or renovated in any manner. In addition,
experimental materials will not be acceptable. Deliverables not produced by regular production
methods andfor which have not been offered for sale to the public through accepted industry trade
channels for a reasonable period of time prior to the commencement of the Contract will be considered
experimental.

G028 DELIVERY

All Contract Goods shipped to the County shall be shipped non DESTINATION, FREIGHT
PREPAID. Arrangements shall be made in advance by the Contractor in order that the County may
arrange for receipt of the materials.

Truck deliveries will be accepted before 3 :00 RM on weekdays only. No deliveries will be accepted
on Saturdays, Sundays or County Holidays. The County is not responsible for delivery delays due to
waiting times for loading and unloading at dock locations.

The quantity of ContractGoods delivered by truck will be ascertained from a weight certi?cate
issued by a duly licensed Public Weight?Master. In the case of delivery by rail, weight will be
ascertained ??om bill of lading from originating line, but the County reserves the right to re?weigh at
the nearest available railroad scale.

The County reserves the right to add new delivery locations or delete previously listed delivery

locations as required during the Contract period. The only restriction regarding the County?s right to
add new delivery locations shall be that any new or additional location shall be withinthe geographical

Part II

boundaries of the {Sororityr of Cook.

(Ki-.29 QUANTITIES

1. Addenda, if any.

.2. Execution Forms

3. Speci?cation.

4. Special Conditions;

5. General Conditions.
6. lushuc?on to Bidders.
7. Legal Advertisemem.
8. Bid Proposal.

Contractor shall be furnished to County without charge.

All documents, data, studies, reports, work product or product created as a result of the
performance of the Contract (the ?Documents'j shall be included inthe Deliverables and shall be the
property of the County of Cook. It shall be a breach of this Contract for the Contractor to reproduce
oruse any documents, data, studies, reports, work product or product obtained from the County of Cook
or any Documents created hereby, whether such reproduction or use is for Contractor's own
purposes or for those of any third party. During the performance of the Contract Contractor shall be 
responsible of any loss or damage to the Documents while they are in Contractor's possession, and
any such loss or damage shall, be restored at the expense of the Contractor. The County and its
designees, shall be afforded ?lli- access to the Documents and the work at all times.

GC-32 EXAMATION OF RECORDS

The .Contractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor or any of its duly authorized representatives
shall, until expiration of three (3) years after the ?nal payment under the Contract, have access and the
right to examine any books, documents, papers, canceled checks, bank statements, purveyors and
other invoices, and records of the Contractor related to the Contract, or to Contractor's compliance
with any term, condition or provision thereof. The Contractor shall be responsible for establishing and
maintaining records su?icient to dounnent the costs associated with performance under the terms of this .
Contract.

The Contractor ?ll'lhBl' agrees that it shall include in all of its subcontracts hereunder a provision to the

.e?'ect that the subcontractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor or any of its duly authorized
representatives shall, until expiration of three (3) years after ?nal payment under the subcontract,
have access and the right to examine any books, documents, papers, canceled checks, bank
statements, purveyorl and other invoices and records of such sub contractor involving transactions relating
to the subcontract, or to such subcontractors compliance with any term, condition or provision
thereunder or under the Contract.

In the event the Contractor receives payment under the Contract, reimbursement for which is later
disallowed by the County, the Contractor shall re?ind the disallowed amount to the County
on request, or at the County?s option, the County may credit the amount disallowed from the need
payment due or to become due to the Contractor under any contract with the Comty.

To the extent this Contract pertains to Deliverables which may be reimbursable under the
Medicaid or Medicare Programs, Contractor shall retain and make available upon request for a
period of bur-(4) years after tin-rushing services pursuant to this Agreement, the contract, books,
documents and records which are necessary to cern'fy the nature and extent of the costs of such
services if requested by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller General of
the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives. IfContractor carries out any of its
duties under the Agreement through a subcontract with a related organization involving a value of
cost of $10,000.00 or more over a 12 month period, Contractor will cause such subcontract to
contain a clause to the effect that, until the expiration of four years a?er the furnishing of any
service pursuant to said subcontract, the related organization will make available upon request of
the Secretary or Health and Human Services or the Comptroller General of the United States or

PartH

any of their dilly authorized representatives, copies of said subcontract and any books, documents,
records and other data of said related organization that are necessary to certify the nature and
extent of such costs. This paragraph relating to the retention and production of documents is
included because of possible application of Section 1361(v)(l)(1) of the Social Security Act to this
Agreement; if this Section should be found to be inapplicable, then this paragraph shall be deemed
inoperative and without force and effect.

GOVERNING LAW

This Contract shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Illinois. The
Contractor irrevocably agrees that, subject to the County's sole and absolute election to the contrary,
any action or proceeding in any way, manner or respect arising out of the Contract, or arising from
any dispute or controversy arising in connection with or related to the Contract, shall be litigated only
in courts within the Circuit Court of Cook County in the City of Chicago, County of Cook, State of
Blinois, and the Contractor consents and submits to the jurisdiction thereof. In accordancewiththese
provisions, Contractor waives any right it may have to transfer or change the venue of any litigation
brought against it by the County pursuant to this Contract.

GC-34 WAIVER

No term or provision of this Contract shall be deemed waived and no breach consented to unless
such waiver or consent shall be in writing and signed by the party claimed to have waived or
consented. The waiver of any such provision shall be strictly limited to the identi?ed provision.

GC-SS ENTIRE CONTRACT

It is expressly agreed that the provisions set forth in this Contract constitute all the understandings
and agreements between the parties. Any prior agreements, promises, negotiations, or
representations not expressly set forth in this Contract are of no force and effect. 

FORCE MAJEURE OR UNAVODJABIE DEIAYS

Neither Contractor nor County shall be liable for Failing to ?il?ll any obligation underthis Contract if such
failure is caused by an event beyond such party's reasonable control which is not caused by such party's
fault or negligence. Such events shall be limited to acts of God, acts of war, ?res, lightning, ?oods,
epidemics, or riots.

GC-Z?ilr INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR NO TIHRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES

The Contractor and its employees, agents and subcontractors are, for all purposes arising out of the
Contact; independent contractors and not employees of the County. It is expresslyundetstood and agreed
that neither the Contractor nor Contractor's employees, agents or subcontractors shall be entitled to
any bene?t to which County employees may be entitled including, but not limited to, overtime or
unemployment compensation, insurance or retirement bene?ts, workers? compensation or occupational
disease bene?ts or other compensation'or leave arrangements.

PartH

Nothing contained herein shall be deemed or construed by the parties hereto, or by any third party, as-
ereating the relationship or principal and agent or of partnership or of joint venturer or any
relationship between the parties hereto other than that of independent contractors. Nothing herein
shall be construed to confer upon any third parties the status of third party bene?ciary.

Part1]

EXHIBIT A
STATEMENT OF WORK
1. Position:

During the term of this Agreement, Contractor shall serve as the Interim Chief Medical.
Of?cer (?Interim for the-Cook County Health and Hospitals System (?System?).

II. Accountability:

Contractor shall report to the Chief Executive Of?cer (or Interim Chief Executive Of?cer .
if applicable) of the System. Contractor and the CEO shall participate in
weekly meetings wherein they will coordinate weekly schedules and discuss the progress
of the goals discussed below. Contractor shall attend the all meetings of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System Board (?System Boar Contractor shall provide
regular progress reports to the CEO and to the System Board concerning the status of the
goals discussed below. Contractor, the. CEO and the System Board will establish
timelines as needed.

Of?ce: I

Contractor shall be provided suitable of?ce space on the ?rst ?oor of the Administration
building, 1900 W. Polk Street, Chicago, Illinois.

IV. Goals, Duties, Deliv'erables, and Projects: The interim CMO will initially focus
effort on the following goals, projects, and duties. Regular progress reports will be made
to the interim CEO and to the Health System Board concerning the status of these goals.
Timelines will be established as needed.

0 Cermak Health Services: It is the goal of the System toattain accreditation of
these services (by the appropriate accrediting bodies) as well as improve
operations in response to noted issues contained within various reports (such as a
recent Department of Justice survey report) while meeting best practices for
correctional health. To successfully accomplish the above the Interim CMO will:

0 Meet with and coordinate the activitiesof the Cermak leadership staff to
develop and carry out the necessary change and improvement plan that 
will result in the above stated goal, including targets, success metrics, and
?me??amefmilestones of implementation.

0 Prepare brie?ng report for presentation to the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee as to progress.

0 Medical Staff System?wide Integration: It is the goal of the System to
maximize the use of the physician staff and to utilize best practices when

Exhibit A 

considering the most ?exible and ef?cient use of this workforce across the
System. To success?illy accomplish this the Interim CMO will:

0 Work with the Medical Directors of the System?s operating af?liates,
through regular and ad hoc committee meetings, to review those
opportunities, from a System perspective, where better'deployment of
physician staff resources to meet patient service needs should be
undertaken and implement a plan to do so. Metrics that de?ne success in
this area will be developed and appropriate reports on progress and results
will be discussed with the Interim CEO, as well as periodically with the
Board.

National benchmarks for level of improvement in this area should be
utilized-for appropriate comparison and in setting goals.

0 Will work with Medical Directors and Chief Operating Of?cers to identify

. challenges to the completion of this task, ?nding appropriate solutions,
and proposing modi?cations to existing, or creation of new policies and
procedures that will facilitate the intended ?illintegration and deployment
of available medical sta?' across the System?s patient care delivery
processes.

0 Where appropriate will recommend to the Interim CEO changes that will
result in elimination of needless duplication, maximize clinical services
that can be offered within the available resources, and ensure that
physician staid? are appropriately matched to the demands of providing
high quality, customer satisfying, outcomes based clinical services.

Productivity and Accountability Standards: The valuable health care
resources of the Health System must be fully-utilized and effectively delivered.
System-wide productivity measurements will assist to identify services and
processes that are ef?ciently being delivered and those that require process
improvements. To successfully accomplish this, the Interim CMO will:

0 Research and identify for adoption an appropriate and nationally accepted
model for physician productivity. The standards will be provider-speci?c,
department-speci?c, and facility-specific.

0 Develop and implement a plan this productivity plan including ?me?ame
for completion, creation of a data gathering system for appropriate
management monitoring, metrics for measuring success, and milestones
for measuring implementation progress.

0 Regular reports on this project will be made to the Interim CEO
as well as the Board.

0 Other Assignments: From time to time it is expected that the Interim CMO will
assist the System Executive team in the Usual and customary business of the
System including but not limited to:

0 Overall process improvement strategies

Exhibit A 2

Exhibit A

0 Strategic planning and program evaluation
0 Routine interface with community and education partners
0 Internal and Board Committee participation

UJ

