REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

APRIL 9, 2009

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Warren L. Batts, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell, MD,
Hon. Jerry Butler; David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, MPH,
Sister Sheila Lyne, Luis Mn?oz, MD, and Heather B. O'Donnell,
JD, LLM (IO)

Absent: Director Andrea Zopp 

Also Present: Pitt Calkin Interim Chief Financial Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System;
Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County;
William T. Foley Chief Executive Officer (designate), Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, Jeff McCutchan Supervisor, Transactions and Health Law Division,
Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Elizabeth Reidy Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau,
Of?ce of the State's Attorney; David R. Small Interim Chief Executive Officer, Cook
County Health and Hospitals System; Robert Weinstein, MD Chief Operating Of?cer,
The Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center of Cook County

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on
Thursday, April 9, 20?9 at the hour of 7:30 AM. at Stroger HoSpital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the ?fth
?oor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of
members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

Chairman Batts stated that although Director Zopp was not physically present, there was a possibility that
she would participate in the meeting telephonically.

Director Munoz, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to allow Director Zopp to participate in the
meeting telephonically as a voting member. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS

Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
APRIL 9, 2009

 

Page 2
PUBLIC COMMENTS (continued)
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speakers:
1. Robert Cohen, MD Chairman, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
2. Africk Presidentr'CEO, Respiratory Health Association of Metropolitan
Chicago
3. Pam McDonough PresidenttCEO, Alliance for Illinois Manufacturing
4. Valerie O'Donnell President, Progressive Industries
5. Elliot El?Amin Vice President of Sales, CE Services, LLC
6. Janice T. Johnson Representative, Humanity for Housing
7. Donald High President, Advanced Management Services Midwest

During the testimony of Dr. Cohen, regarding a waiver for minority participation on a sole-source
contract for unique pulmonary equipment, and Mr. Africk, regarding minority participation on an
existing contract for the Healthy Lungs Initiative, it was recommended that further discussion on
these issues should take place at the Finance Committee level.

 

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH
AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF FRIDAY, MARCH 13. 2009 AT
7:30 A.M.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Golden, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of
the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Friday, March 13, 2009' at
7:30 A.M. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT FROM SYSTEM BOARD CHAIRMAN WARREN L. BATTS
Chairman Batts reported on the following subjects:

Presentation on CORE Center

Chairman Batts stated that Dr. Robert Weinstein, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center of Cook County, would be presenting a video on the CORE Center; due to technical
difficulties it was determined that Dr. Weinstein would present the video at a ?Jture meeting of the Board.

Meeting with United States Senator Richard Durbin

Chairman Batts stated that he and William Foley, Chief Executive Of?cer (designate) of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, met with Senator Durbin. Chairman Batts stated that the Senator was
supportive, and offered suggestions on how to find more funding through stimulus ?nds and in
Spring?eld.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
APRIL 9, 2009
Page 3

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM INTERIM
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER DAVID R. SMALL

David Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, reported
on the following subjects (Attachment 

May 6, 2009 Meeting ofthe Finance Committee of the Coot: County Board of
Commissioners regarding capital equipment items

Update on the project to upgrade the Cerner applications

 

COMMITTEE REPORT

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of 43-09?
note: Medical Staff as
amended, were approved by the Quality and Patient Safety
Committee at this meeting.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Quality and
Patient Safety Committee for the meeting of March 18, 2009. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORT

Finance Committee Meeting of 3-20-?9*
note: the following were approved by the Finance Committee at
this meeting: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended; a
request to amend a previously approved contract amendment; and
a real estate matter.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Finance
Committee for the meeting of March 20, 2009. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Director Ansell recused himself and voted PRESENT on request number 24 under the Contracts
and Procurement Items contained in the Report of the Finance Committee of March 20, 2009.

Director Carvalho recused himself and voted PRESENT on request numbers I, 2, 3, 4, and 5 under
the Contracts and Procurement Items contained in the Report of the Finance Committee of March
20, 2009.

 

REPORT OF THE

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
APRIL 9, 2009
Page 4
REPORT
Human Resources Committee Meeting of 4-03?09

Director Carvalho, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved to approve the Report of the
Human Resources Committee for the meeting of April 3, 2009. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORT

Finance Committee Meeting ot'4-03-09*
note: the following were approved by the Finance Committee at
this meeting: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended; a
request to enter into a contract for strategic planning and
consulting services; and a new Intergovernmental Transfer
Agreement.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Finance
Committee for the meeting of April 3, 2009.

Director Carvaiho stated that request number 7, under the Contracts and Procurements items, was a bill
and claim for the provision of professional service fees for MedAssets in the amount The
Finance Committee?s approval of the item was conditional, subject to review by System Internal Audit
staff. This review has taken place, and there are no Further conditions remaining .

Pitt Calkin, Interim Chief Financial Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, stated that
there was an addendum to the agreement with Integrated Clinical Solutions (Attachment relating to
public forums.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to amend the Report of the Finance
Committee for the meeting of April 3, 2009, to re?ect that the ?subject to? provision attached to the
approval of the bill for MedAssets has been satis?ed. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

On the motion to approve the Report of the Finance Committee for the meeting of April 3, 2009, as
amended, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED.

Director Carvalho recused himself and voted PRESENT on request numbers under the Contracts and Procurement Items contained in the Report of the Finance Committee of
April 3, 2009.

Director Greenspan recused himself and voted PRESENT on request number 24 under the
Contracts and Procurement Items contained in the Report of the Finance Committee of April 3,
2009.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
APRIL 9, 2009
Page 5

CONSIDER AND APPROVE PROPOSED PROCUREMENT POLICY
FOR THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Director Carvalho introduced the proposed Procurement Policy for the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System (Attachment and provided background on the efforts of those who participated in
its drafting.

Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the State?s Attorney, provided
additional information.

The Board reviewed and discussed the proposed policy.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Munoz, moved to approve the proposed Procurement Policy
for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

UPDATE FROM AD HOC STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE

Director Golden provided an update on strategic planning efforts. She explained that there were ?ve
stages relating to strategic planning, beginning with a kickoff retreat.

The Board discussed the information provided, and discussed the possibility of having a retreat in mid-
May. Chairman Batts requested that the members be polled on their availability for such purposes.

 

REPORT ON NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REGARDING
THE COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND CERMAK HEALTH SERVICES

DISCUSSION OF PERSONNEL MATTERS

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et
seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of speci?c employees of the public body or
legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodgedagainst an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,?
and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS which states:
?litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and
is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body ?nds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the ?nding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting". THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene
into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
APRIL 9, 2009

Page 6

ADJOURNM ENT

Director Lyme, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

New \x Milk?

Warren L. Batts, Chairmarf

Attest:

73

/Ll@5tthew B. DeLeon Secretary

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
April 9, 2009

ATTACHMENT #1

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report from the Interim Chief Executive Officer
Board Meeting of April 9, 2009

*Finance Committee of the Cook County Board of Commissioners will meet on May 6"11
1:00 PM to review:

All outstanding, and previously approved capital equipment items from FY 2007
and FY 2008

All previously approved capital equipment items for FY 2009

In preparation, Pitt Calkin has scheduled a series of meetings over the next three weeks to
review with requesting operating unitsldepartments all of the items to determine if the
equipment is still needed, what the levels of priority are for each requested purchase, and
the previously prepared and ?led justi?cation documentation. The County Budget of?ce
will be supplying their lists of outstanding capital equipment requests for us review and
reconcile to.

The ?nal listing will be brought to the CCI-IHS Finance Committee for review and
discussion at its meeting of May 

list of the capital improvement projects for the that were re-approved by the
Cook County Board last week will be circulated next week to the System Board of
Directors for your information.

*The project to upgrade our Corner applications to the most current release version and
the roll?out across our System is continues and is on track. The projected ?Go live? dates
are Sunday May 17''11 at Stroger, Oak Forest, and Cermalc, and Sunday June 21St at
Provident. Under the program that your Board approved, and with the help of our IT
Partner ACS, we are acquiring all of the necessary equipment in support of this roll out
such as the Computers on Wheels (COWs), printers, mobile devices, etc.

Additionally, again with your Board approval, Corner has been contracted to supply
1,950 hours of specialized trainers so that physicians and nurses can be trained on the
applications and new features.

Cook County Health and HoSpitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
April 9, 2009

ATTACHMENT #2

10

INTEGRATED

CLINICAL SOLUTIONS INC.

10 South Riverside Plaza Suite 1800 Chicago, IL
59606
April 3. 2009

Mr. William T. Foley

Chief Executive Of?cer

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
1900 West Polk Street

Suite 123

Chicago. IL 60612

Dear Bill:

Thanks for updating me regarding the System Board?s discussion as it relates to moving
forward with ICS in the strategic planning process. Pursuant to our conversation and as an
addendum to our March 31 Letter of Understanding (LOU), I wish to confirm the following as
it pertains to process scope:

I We understand the importance of having community input at key junctures in the
process, and are highly supportive of the suggestion to expand on the number of
Town Hall meetings beyond the 4-5 meetings as identi?ed in our LOU. Accordingly.

. we will commit to facilitating an additional 4-5 meetings. and will do so within our
original budget. (As we discussed, it may be determined that the number of meetings
should be extended beyond even this expanded number, in which case we would be
pleased to revise the scope of our agreement andi'or work closely with your team to
provide support in having your management team members lead the facilitation in
certain instances as appropriate.)

- At the same time, we strongly support the suggestion that an interactive Website -
could serve to enhance communications with key stakeholders throughout the
process. We will support the development of such a Website and the processing of
information thereby obtained within our agreed-upon scope of effort.

Our team concurs that both of these initiatives will result in bene?cial two-way
communications between the System and its constituencies as the process evolves.

We are delighted to have this opportunity to serve Cook County Health and Hospitals
System! i look forward to our meeting next Friday.

Sincerely, 
TED CLINICAL SOLUTIONS, 

?u ?w/e

John Abendshien

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
April 9, 2009

ATTACHMENT #3

11

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Cool; Coungr Health and HosnitaLs Svstem

Procurement Policv

Table of Contents

PREAMBLE 4

PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS 4

Section 1.1. De?nitions. 4

Section 1.2. Purchases. 5

Section 1.3. Procurement Director. 6

Section 1.4. Powers and Duties of the Procurement Director. 6

Section 1.5. Electronic Procurement. 7
Section 1.6. No Delegation of Power to Act for Certain Expenditures. 7 .

Section 1.7. Purchases for a Period Exceeding One Year. 3

Section 1.8. Contract Commencement and Expiration Dates. 8

PART II. PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES 9

Section Procurement Procedures. 9

Section 2.2. Bid Purchases. 9

Development and approval of bid documents. 10

Pre?bid conference or site inspection. 10

Communications with the System regarding bids 10

Communication between bidders. 10

Bids to conform to advertisement for bid. 11

Bid opening. - 11

Evaluation of bids 12

Local business preference. 12

Bid protest procedure. 12

Bid protest decision. 13

(1) Final action 13

(to) Right to reject bids reserved 13

Section 2.3. Open Market Purchases. 13

Section 2.4. Requests for Preposals 14

Criteria for use of requests for proposals. 14

12

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

13

Content of RFPs. 14

Issuance. 14

Opening of Proposals. 15

Evaluation and Selection for Contract Negotiation. 15

Contract Negotiation and Approvall'Execution 16
Section 2.5. Purchasing Consortia. 16
Section 2.6. Sole Source Purchases. 16
Section 2.7. Comparable Government Bid. 16
Section 2.8. Emergency Purchases. 17
Section 2.9. Purchase of Government Property/Services. 17
Section 2.10. Contracts for Consulting and Auditing Services. 17
Section 2.11. Purchase of Construction Services. 19
PART COUNTY ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS 19
Section 3.1. Living Wage. 19
Section 3.2. Prevailing Wage. 19
Section 3 .3. Penalties for Failure to Pay Cook County Taxes and Fees 19
Section 3.4. Contracts with Businesses in Northern Ireland (MacBride Principles) 20
Section 3.5. Recycled Products. 20
Section 3.6. Predatory Lenders. 20
Section 3.7. Re?Entry Employmenth id Incentive. 20
Section 3.8. Child Support Payments. 21
PART IV. MINORITY-AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES 21
Section 4.1. Minority-And Women-Owned Business Enterprises. 21
PART V. DIS QUALIFICATION 21
Section 5.1. Disquali?cation Due to a Prior Default or Termination 21
Section 5.2. Disqualification for Tax and Fee Delinquency 23
Section 5.3. Disquali?cation for Noncompliance with Child Support Orders. 23
Section 5.4. Disquali?cation for Withdrawal of Bid After Bid Opening 23
Section 5.5. Notice to Cook County Purchasing Agent. 24
Section 5.6. Disquali?cation of Owner, Partner or Shareholder. 24
PART VI. INTEGRITY IN THE PROCUREMENT PROCESS I 24
Section 6.1 Reporting Potential Irregularities. 24

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Section 6.2. Communications. 2 5
Section 6.4. Code of Ethics of the Cook County Code of Ordinances 25
PART VII. MISCELLANEOUS 27
Section 7.1. Amendments to this Policy. 27
Section 7.2. Effective Date; Implementation Transition. 
Section Article IV, Procurement and Contracts, of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances. 28

14

Preposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

PREAMBLE

WHEREAS, the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (?System?) makes health
care services available to persons who reside in Cook County; and,

WHEREAS, one goal of the System is to obtain quality goods and services for its
patients at the lowest reasonable cost while operating at the highest standards of ethical conduct;
and,

WHEREAS, the System seeks to make Purchases in such a manner as to ensure the
timely and appropriate procurement of supplies, materials, equipment and services; and,

WHEREAS, the System seeks to employ a transparent procurement process to ensure
that authority, responsibility and accountability are clearly delineated to maximize the efficiency
of operations; and,

WHEREAS, the System seeks to employ a procurement process that is consistent with
the Cook County Code of Ordinances on Procurement and Contracts and other applicable
County Ordinances yet allows for maximum ?exibility.

THEREFORE, the Procurement Policy of the System shall be as follows:

PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1.1. De?nitions.

Chief Executive Of?cer or CEO. The term ?Chief Executive Of?cer? or means the
Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Contract. The term ?Contract? shall include agreements, addenda, memoranda of
understanding, and any other written document used to make purchases for the Cook County
Health and HoSpitals System.

County Board. The term ?County Board? shall mean. the Cook County Board of
Commissioners.

Person. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the term ?Person" means any individual,

corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, association, limited liability company,

15

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy -

April 11, 2009

unincorporated business, individually owned business, sole proprietorship or similar type of
organization or association.

Professional and Managerial Services. The term ?Professional and Managerial Services?
means a contract that falls under one of the following Cook County object/account codes, as set
forth in the Cook County Annual Appropriation Bill: 260 - Professional and Managerial
Services, 261 - Legal Fees Regarding Labor Matters, 262 - Legal Fees in Connection with
Issuance of Tax Notes, 263 - Legal Fees, or 272 - Medical Consultation Services.

Purchase or Purchases. The term ?Purchase? or ?Purchases? means the eXpenditure of County
funds to obtain supplies, materials, equipment or services. 
System. The term ?System" means the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

System Affiliate or A ?iliate. The term ?System Af?liate? or ?Af?liate" means the Ambulatory
and Community Health Network, Cermak Health Services of Cook County, Cook County
Department of Public Health, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County, Provident Hospital of Cook
County, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center, and John H. Stroger, Jr. HoSpitaI of Cook County.
System Board. The term ?System Board" means the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System. 2

Section 1.2. Purchases.

All Purchases for the System shall be made as provided in this Policy and the procedures
promulgated pursuant to this Policy. All Contracts for Purchases of supplies, material,-
equipment and non-Professional and Managerial Services of $100,000.00 or more, or Contracts
for Professional and Managerial Services of $25,000.00 or more, shall be approved by the
System Board and executed by the System?s Chief Executive Of?cer and Chief Financial
Of?cer. All other Purchases shall be approved by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his or her
designee and executed as set forth in the procedures promulgated pursuant to this Policy;
provided, however, all such Purchases shall require System Board approval in circumstances
where the aggregate of expenditures by a System Affiliate to the same vendor for the same, or
substantially the same, sopplies, materials, equipment or non-Professional and Managerial
Services within the same fiscal year equal a sum of 100,000.00 or more, or $25,000.00 or more

for Purchases of Professional and Managerial Services.

16

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Section 1.3. Procurement Director.
There shall be a Procurement Director for the System appointed by the Chief Executive Of?cer

and reporting to the Chief Financial Of?cer who shall be responsible for overseeing the System?s

procurement process.

Section 1.4. Powers and limes of the Procurement Director.
The Procurement Director shall:
Ensure that Purchases required by the System shall be made pursuant to this Policy
and any procedures promulgated pursuant hereto.
Establish and maintain procurement procedures and forms to implement this Policy
and to ensure integration of the System?s procurement process with the County?s
payment process.
Promulgate general conditions appropriate for the various purchase methods and types
of Purchases.
Establish and enforce standard and nonstandard Speci?cations which shall apply to all
System Purchases.
Develop a procedure enabling vendors to receive notice of procurement opportunities
by nature or type of goods or services.
Have authority to approve an amendment to a Contract; provided, however, that the
total of such amendment(s) does not increase the amount of the Contract by more than
$1,000.00 or extend the Contract by more than thirty (30) days.
Require all vendors to submit a notarized certi?cation or af?davit of their compliance
with all requirements imposed by this Policy on forms promulgated by the Procurement
Director, which shall include, but shall not be limited to: .
an affinnation that the vendor is a registered business in good standing with the
State of Illinois and, in the case of a Contractor operating under an assomed name,
with the County Clerk;
(ii) an af?rmation of compliance with Section 34-130 (Taxes and Fees), Section
34-131 (Child Support) and Chapter 2, Article VII (Ethics), including Section 2-
574 (Receiving and Soliciting Gifts and Favors), Section 2-535 (Limitations of

17

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Contributions to Candidates and Elected Of?cials), and the Cook County Human
Rights Ordinance (ch. 42, Article II of the Cook County Code of Ordinances);
an af?rmation of compliance with the Drug Free Workplace Act (30 ILCS
580/2-11) and the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 
(iv) an economic disclosure statement disclosing all lobbying contacts on behalf
of the vendor with reSpect to the Purchase; and
any other certi?cations or af?davits required by the System Board or the
Cook County Code of Ordinances.
Include in Contracts for System Purchases the requirements of the Cook County Code
of Ordinances as set forth below in Part County Ordinance Requirements, Section 3.1
(Living Wage) through Section 3.8 (Child Support Payments).
Compile and maintain information for all Purchases, including those Purchases which
do not require System Board approval. The Procurement Director shall submit a report to
the System Board on a quarterly basis of the individual and total aggregate amount of all
Purchases which do not require System Board approval, including a list of each vendor
from whom the System makes such Purchases.
The Procurement Director shall, as soon as practicable and to the greatest extent
practicable, make available on the System?s website information related to all Purchases,
including, but not limited to, a list of System contracts and a list of contractors and
subcontractors.
Have charge of such other procurement activities as may be assigned from time to

time.

Section 1.5. Electronic Procuremen_t.

The Procurement Director shall implement a method of electronic procurement for the System,

and shall have the authority to provide for electronic signatures.

Section 1.6. No Delegation of Power to Act for Certain Expenditures.
The System Board shall have no power or authority to delegate to any committee or person the
"power to act" when such "power to act'I shall involve a Purchase exceeding the limits set forth

in Section 34-125 of the Cook County Code of Ordinances (No Delegation of Power to Act for

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Expenditure of $100,000.00 or More), subject to the exceptions therein. Where such exceptions
reference action by the County Board, it shall also include action by the System Board where
applicable. Any action of the System Board, or of any committee thereof, or of any person in

violation of this section shall be null and void.

Section 1.7. for a Period?xceeding One Year. -
System Purchases may be made for a period exceeding one year. Any such Purchase shall be
a valid and binding obligation of the County.
Any Contract for a System Purchase for a period to exceed one year must contain the
following provisions: 
A statement that the Contract is subject to County Board approval of appropriations
for the purpose of the subject Contract;
(ii) A statement that in the event funds are not appropriated by the County Board, the
Contract shall be cancelled without penalty to, or ?rrther payment being required by, the
System Board or the County;
A statement that the System Board?s or County?s obligation to perform shall cease
immediately upon receipt of notice to the vendor of lack of appropriated funds; and
(iv) A statement that the System Board?s or County's obligation under the Contract shall
also be subject to immediate termination or cancellation at any time when there are not
suf?cient authorized funds available to meet such obligation.
In the event the System Board determines that there is a lack of funds suf?cient
to fund a contract, the System Board shall have the discretion to reduce or terminate the contract.
The Procurement Director shall give the vendor notice of a lack of appropriated funds
suf?cient to fund the contract as soon as practicable after the System Board becomes aware of

the failure of funding.

Section 1.8. Contract Con?dencemegt an(_1_ Expiration I?m.

The Procurement Director shall have authority to establish the commencement and expiration
dates of any Contract as necessary to permit the Contract period to commence upon the date of
execution of the Contract by the System unless another commencement date is speci?ed in the

Contract.

19

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

PART II. PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES

Section 2.1. Procurement Procedw.
System Purchases shall be made by bid as set forth in Section 2.2, Bid Purchases; provided,
however, that such Purchases may be made by one of the alternative purchase methods set forth
below where such Purchases meet the criteria set forth in the applicable Section:

Section 2.3. Open Market Purchases;

Section 2.4. Requests for Proposals:

Section 2.5. Purchasing Consortia:

Section 2.6. Sole Source Purchases;

Section 2.7-. Comparable Government Bid; and
Section 2.8. Emergency Purchases.

Section 2.2. Bid Purchases.
If a Purchase is to be made by means of a bid, the Procurement Director shall follow the
procedures set forth below. The Procurement Director? may develop additional procedures

consistent with this Policy.
bids.

The Procurement Director shall publish an advertisement at least once in a secular newspaper of
general circulation within Cook County at least five (5) calendar days before the ?nal date for
the submission of bids and shall post a notice of the bid on the System?s website as well as on a
bulletin board at the System. The advertisement and posting shall include a general description
of the Purchase and shall state where all bid documents and speci?cations may be obtained and
the date, time and place for the submission of bids and the opening of the submitted bids.
Subsequent to the advertisement and posting of the bid, the Procurement Director may also
directly notify prospective bidders of the bid. The Procurement Director shall keep a record of

all Persons who request a set of bid documents.

20

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Development and approval ofbid documents.
The Procurement Director shall prepare the bid documents which shall include, but not be

limited to, a description of the Purchase, any minimum bidder quali?cations, whether a pre?bid
conference or site inspection is required, any conditions with which the successful bidder shall
be required to comply, cost proposal information and any other information determined

necessary by the Procurement Director to prepare and ?nalize the bid documents.

Pro-bid conference or site inspection.

The Procurement Director shall include details of any pro-bid conference or site inSpection in the
bid documents. Any changes to the date, time or place of such conference or inspection will be
communicated in writing or electronically, where by means of an Addendum to all

Persons recorded as having requested bid documents.

(of) Communications with the System regarding bids.
From the time the bid is advertised until the Person from whom a Purchase will be made has

been determined, all communications from prospective bidders, Persons who requested the bid
documents or bidders to the System or any of its staff must be directed in writing or
electronically only to the Procurement Director. The bid documents shall specify that all requests
for information or clari?cation of the bid must be directed in uniting or electronically only to the
Procurement Director; and must be received no later than ?ve (5) business days prior to the date
and time the bids are to be submitted. Upon receipt of such a request, the Procurement Director
will determine if a response will be provided; and any such response shall be provided to all
Persons who requested a set of bid documents. The Procurement Director will not consider
inquiries made in any other manner or to anyone else. However, the above notwithstanding,
communications may be made with the Procurement Director either orally or in writing for the
purpose of complying with the provisions regarding minority and women owned business

participation.

Communication between bidders.
Until the Person from whom the Purchase will be made has been determined, no prospective

bidder, Person who requested the bid documents or bidders shall communicate with any other

10

21

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

such Person regarding the bid, with the sole exception of communications with a minority or
women owned business enterprise to meet requirements of minority or women owned business
enterprise goals as set forth in Part IV, Minority-And Women-Ousted Business Enterprise,

Section 4.1, of this Policy.

(I) Bids to conform to advertisement for bid.
A bid shall be not considered where that bid (1) was submitted after the exact date and

time for submission of bids speci?ed in the advertisement for bids, except as may be
extended in an Addendum; (2) was not accompanied by a required certi?ed check, bid
deposit, or bid bond; (3) was not accompanied by the af?davits, certi?cations or
economic disclosure statements required to be submitted; or (4) fails to comply with the
terms and conditions as stated in the advertisement for bids.

(ii) No bid may be changed, amended, or supplemented in any way after the exact date
and time for submission of bids Speci?ed in the advertisement and posting for bids. No
Purchase shall be made by the System from a bidder for a period of one year after the
date of the bid opening where such bidder cancels or withdraws its bid after the bid
opening. The Procurement Director shall notify the County?s Purchasing Agent of any

bidder who has been so disquali?ed by the System.

Bid opening.

All bids shall be opened and recorded at the date, time and location as stated in the advertisement
and posting for bid. The Procurement Director shall read and announce in public all bids before
at least one witness and all who desire to attend. If only one bid has been submitted, the bid shall
net be opened but shall be returned to the bidder via certi?ed mail. The Procurement Director
will thereafter determine whether to re-issue the bid or use a different method to make the
Purchase. If it is determined that an error was made in announcing the bid or there was a failure
to read all bids into the record, the Procurement Director shall notify all bidders and reconvene

the bid opening to correct the record as soon as reasonably possible.

11

22

Proposed Cook County Health and HOSpitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

(11) Evaluation ofbr'ds.

The Procurement Director shall evaluate the bid with the lowest price for compliance with the
requirements set forth in the bid documents. In determining the lowest bid price, the
Procurement Director shall consider the local business preference, as set forth in Part 11,

Procurement Procedures, Section 2.2, Bid Purchases Local business preference, of this

 

Policy. In addition, the Procurement Director will determine if the bidder with the lowest price
is a reSponsible bidder. If the bid being evaluated does not comply with the requirements in the
bid documents or the bidder is deemed not responsible, the Procurement Director will evaluate
the next lowest bid using this same criteria. The Procurement Director shall recommend that the
Purchase be made from the lowest responsible bidder. Once a recommendation has been
determined, the Procurement Director shall post a notice of such recommendation on the

System?s website and on a bulletin board at the System.

Local business preference.

For purposes of this section, the term "local business? means a Person, including a
foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this State, having a bona ?de
establishment for transactng business located within the County at which it was actually
transacting business on the date when?an advertisement for bid is ?rst published and
which employs the majority of its regular, full-time work force within the County.

(ii) Notwithstanding the requirements set forth in Part II, Procurement Procedures,
Section 2.2, Bid Purchases Evaluation of bids, the Procurement Director shall

 

recommend the purchase be made from the lowest responsible local business; provided,
however, that such bid does not exceed the lowest responsible bidder by more than two

percent.

(1) Bid protest procedure.

Any bidder who believes that the recommended bidder is not the lowest responsible bidder, or
who has a complaint about the bid process, may submit a bid protest, in writing, directed to the
Procurement Director. Any bid protest must be submitted no later than three business days after

the date upon which the notice of the Procurement Director's recommendation is posted. The bid

12

23

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

protest must specify the basis upon which the recommendation is erroneous, or the basis upon
which the bid procedure was unfair, including a statement of how the alleged error or unfairness
prejudiced the protesting bidder. A bidder who could have submitted a request for clari?cation or
information pursuant to Part 11, Procurement Procedures, Section 2.2, Bid Purchases, 
Communications regarding bids, above, but failed to do so, shall not be entitled to protest a bid

on the basis of insuf?cient information or clarity.

Bid protest decision.

When a bid protest has been submitted, no further action shall be taken on the bid until the
Procurement Director makes a decision regarding the bid protest. The Procurement Director shall
issue a written decision on the bid protest as soon as reasonably practicable. If the protest is
upheld, the Procurement Director shall either re-bid the Purchase or recommend the lowest

responsible bidder.

(1) Final action.
If the Purchase requires System Board approval, the Procurement Director?s recommendation of

the lowest reSponsible bidder shall be forwarded to the System Board for approval and
execution. The Procurement Director shall ensure that all required documents have been properly
completed and all due diligence is performed prior to forwarding the recommendation. If the
Purchase does not require System Board approval, approval and execution shall be as provided

in the procedures promulgated pursuant to this Policy.

(to) Right to reject bids reserved.

The System Board shall have the right to reject any and all bids. The Procurement Director is
authorized to exercise this right on behalf of the System Board as set forth in the procedures
promulgated pursuant to this Policy. The Procurement Director shall include a provision in the

bid documents reserving the right to reject any and all bids.

Section 2.3. Open Market Purchases.
Purchases, excluding Professional and Managerial Services, of $750.00 or less may be

made with petty cash pursuant to the System's policy regarding use of petty cash.

13

24

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy 

April 11, 2009

Purchases greater than $750.00 and less than $25,000.00 for Purchase of Professional and
Managerial Services, and greater than $750.00 and less than $100,000.00 for other Purchases
may be made through the solicitation of price quotations on the open market and approved
pursuant to Part II, Purchases, of this Policy. The Procurement Director shall develop forms and
procedures to implement these open market Purchases which shall include, but not be limited to,
provisions regarding the criteria for such Purchases. Whenever practical, such open market

Purchases must be based on at least three informal price quotations.

Section 2.4. mm.

criteria for use of requests for proposals. 

The Procurement Director may determine that it is in the best interest of the System to make a
Purchase by a request for proposal because such Purchase is not readily adaptable to
bid. Examples include, but are not limited to: Purchases involving services requiring a high
degree of professional skill where the ability or ?tness of the Person plays an important part;
Purchases where it is not in the best interest of the System to make price a primary determinative
factor; Purchases involving both goods and service components; Purchases of utility services
such as water, electricity, gas, telephone, or electronic communications; and Purchases of
magazines, books, periodicals, and similar articles of an educational or instructional nature, and

the binding of such magazines, books, periodicals, pamphlets, reports, and similar articles.

(6) Content 

The Procurement Director shall determine the form and content of the RFP including, but not
limited to, the scope and conditions, general conditions, proposer
questionnaire, cost preposal form and the evaluation procedures. RFPs'shall include a provision
stating that the RFP may result in the negotiation of a Purchase with one or more proposers
selected as the result of an evaluation process which includes the simultaneous consideration of

multiple evaluation factors.

Issuance.
The Procurement Director shall post a notice of the RFP on the System?s website as well as on a

bulletin board at the System, which shall include a general description of the Purchase, and shall

14

25

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

state where the RFP documents may be obtained. Subsequent to the posting of the RFP, the
Procurement Director may also directly notify prOSpective proposers of the RFP. The
Procurement Director may also request that the County?s O??ice of the Purchasing Agent post the

RFP on its website.

(at) Opening of Proposals.
The proposals shall be opened in the presence of one or more witnesses after the designated date
and time for submission. The names of the proposers shall be open for public inspection after

the Purchase has been completed.

Evaluation and Selection for Contract Negotiation.

The RFP shall include the factors to be used in evaluating preposals. These factors
may include, but are not limited to, price, experience and quali?cations of the proposer,
the quality and cost effectiveness of the proposal, and the demonstrated willingness and
ability of the proposer to satisfy the requirements of the System as described in the RFP.
The Procurement Director shall oversee the evaluation of the proposals which may
include participation of representatives from the apprOpriate System The
contents of the proposals shall not be disclosed to competing proposers during the
evaluation process.

(ii) The purpose of the evaluation is to identify one or more proposers for further
discussion. As provided in the RFP, further discussions may be conducted with any or all
proposers for the purpose of clarifying and assuring a full understanding of and
responsiveness to the System?s requirements. Proposers identi?ed for further discussion
shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to any opportunity for discussion
and revision of proposals. If information is disclosed by the System to any preposer, it
shall be provided to all proposers still under consideration. After these discussions, any
or all of the proposers may be requested to submit revisions to their proposals for the
purpose of obtaining best and ?nal proposals. During discussions, there shall be no

disclosure of any con?dential information derived from proposals submitted by

15

26

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

competing proposers. The Procurement Director shall document the results of the

evaluation including the reasons for selection of the proposer(s) for contract negotiations.

Contract Negotiation and Approval/Execution.

The Procurement Director shall oversee the negotiation of a Contract(s) with the proposer(s)
identi?ed following the evaluation. Upon completion of the negotiation of the Contract(s), the
Contract(s) shall be submitted for approval and execution as provided in Part II, Purchases, of

this Policy.

Section 2.5. Purchasing Consortia.

Purchases may be made pursuant to the System?s membership in a purchasing consortium,
provided that the System Board has approved the System?s membership in such purchasing
consortium for, at least in part, the purpose of obtaining advantageous pricing and other
ef?ciencies for the System. If the consortium is a group purchasing organization 
selection of the GPO shall be pursuant to the issuance of a request for proposal which shall detail
the types of goods to be purchased through the GPO. Purchases made through a purchasing

consortium shall be approved and executed as set forth in Part II, Purchases of this Policy.

 

Section 2.6. Sole Source Purchases.

Purchases may be made without use of one of the competitive selection methods set forth in this
Policy such as when the Purchase requires a Person with a specialized skill or service or there is
only one feasible source for the item or service. Sole source Purchases shall be approved and

executed as set forth in Part II, Purchases, of this Policy.

Section 2.7. Comparable Government Bill.

If a governmental agency similar in size or larger than Cook County has awarded a bid for the
purchase of the same or similar supplies, materials, equipment or services as those sought by the
System, the Procurement Director, in his or her discretion, is authorized to recommend the
Purchase of such supplies, materials, equipment or services from that vendor at the awarded bid
price without having to issue a bid or request for proposal. The Procurement Director?s
recommendation for a Purchase from a vendor of a comparable government bid shall be

approved and executed as set forth in Part II, Purchases, of this Policy.

16

27

Proposed Cook County Health and HoSpitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Section 2.8. Emergegcv 

The Chief Executive Of?cer or his or her designee may make emergency Purchases without use
of one of the selection methods set forth in this Policy and without prior approval of the System
Board when there exists a threat to public health or public safety, or when an immediate
Purchase is necessary for repairs to System property in order to protect against further loss or
damage, to prevent or minimize serious disruption in System services, or to ensure the integrity
of System records. If practicable under the circumstances, the CEO or his or her designee shall
secure quotations from multiple vendors for an emergency Purchase. The CEO or his or her
designee shall report the basis for the emergency and reasons for the selection of the particular
vendor to the Chair of the System Board and the Chair of the System Board's Finance
Committee within ?ve (5) business days of making an emergency Purchase. This information
shall also be reported to the System Board?s Finance Committee no later than at its next regularly

scheduled meeting.

Section 2.9. Purchase of Government Propertvaervices.

The Procurement Director is expressly authorized to procure from any Federal, State or local
government unit or agency thereof such surplus materials, supplies, commodities, or equipment
as may be made available through the operation of any legislation heretofore or hereinafter
enacted. Purchases of surplus government property shall be approved and executed as set forth

in Part II, Purchases, of this Policy.

The System may contract with other units of government to obtain services. Each such
Contract shall be reviewed separately by the System Board, regardless of the amount involved,

and shall be submitted to the State's Attorney for approval as to form.

Section 2.10. Contracts for Consulting and Auditing Services.

The System will not knowingly enter into any Contract for auditing services, nor shall it
consent to a subcontract for such auditing services, with any Person, if such Person, or any
affiliate of such Person, has a contract or subcontract for consulting services for or with the
System or the County. Additionally, the System will not knowingly enter into any contract for

consulting services, nor shall it consent to a subcontract for such consulting services, with any

17

28

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Person, if such Person, or any af?liate of such Person, has a contract or subcontract for auditing
services for or with the System or the County.
. The terms used in this Section 2.10, Contracts for Consulting and Auditing Services, shall

have the meanings set forth below for the purposes of this Section only:

means any Person that controls or is controlled by another Person, by
shareholdings, membership, ownership or other means of control or power including, but not
limited to, a subsidiary, parent or sibling corporation. The term "af?liate" also includes any
Person that directly or indirectly controls or is under common control with the speci?ed Person.
A Person shall be deemed to control if such Person has the power to directly or indirectly affect
the management or the policies of the other through ownership of voting securities or voting
rights, by contract or otherwise.

Auditing services means the formal examination of accounting records, ?nancial
statements or compliance with some other set of ?nancial standards in accordance with auditing
standards generally accepted in the United States which functions are generally exclusively
performed or supervised by individuals or business organizations licensed and authorized to do
business as public accountants in the State. The term "auditing services" shall also include any
independent reports and management recommendations derived or resulting from the
performance of auditing services and which reports and recormnendations are included within
the scope of the contract for auditing services.

Consulting services means the rendering of analysis and advice requiring specialized
expertise in a particular subject area or ?eld. Such expertise may have been gained by education
or experience in the area or ?eld. The term "consulting services" expressly excludes auditing
services.

The Procurement Director shall require that an auditing or consulting services vendor provide
certi?cation in a form acceptable to the Procurement Director that neither the vendor nor any
affiliate-of the vendor has a contract or a subcontract to provide consulting or auditing services
for the System or the County which is prohibited under Subsection of this Section.

The Procurement Director shall netify the Cook County Purchasing Agent of any System

Contracts for auditing or consulting services.

13

29

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Section 2.11. Purchase of Cons?ction Services.

Transactions valued at $100,000.00 or greater involving real property shall require express
approval of the County Board. All System Purchases for construction shall comply with Section
34-15? (Percentage of work of construction projects to be performed by County residents),
Section 34-158 (Preference to citizens on public works projects) and Section 34-159

(Responsible Bidder) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

PART COUNTY ORDINANCE REQUIREMENTS

The Procurement Director shall ensure that all Purchases are subject to the following

requirements as set forth in the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

Section 3.1. Living Wage.
All System Purchases shall comply with the requirements set forth in Section 34-127 (Living

Wage) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. The Procurement Director shall comply with
any requirements therein imposed upon the County?s Purchasing Agent. The Procurement
Director shall also coordinate with the Cook County Chief Financial Of?cer and Cook County
Purchasing Agent to enable them to carry out the provisions of Section 34?12? with regard to

System Purchases.

Section 3.2. Prevailing Wage.
All System Purchases shall comply with Sec. 34-123 (Prevailing Wage) of the Cook County

Code of Ordinances. The Procurement Director shall comply with any requirements therein

imposed upon the County?s Purchasing Agent.

Section 3.3. Penalties for Failure to Pay Cook County Taxes agd Fees.
All System Purchases shall comply with Sec. 34-130 (Penalties for failure to pay Cook County
taxes and fees) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. The Procurement Director shall comply

with any requirements therein imposed upon the County?s Purchasing Agent.

19

3O

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 1 1,2009

Section 3.4. Contracts with Businesses in Northern Ireland ('MacBride Principles).
All System Purchases shall comply with Sec. 34-132 (Contracts with businesses in Northern
Ireland) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. The Procurement Director shall comply with

any requirements therein imposed upon the County?s Purchasing Agent.

Section 3.5. Recycled Products.
All System Purchases shall comply with and Section 34-24] through Section 34?251 of the Cook

County Code of Ordinances. For the purpose of this Policy, in applying Section 34-24] through
Section 34?251, (Recycled Products), the term ?County" shall mean ?System? and the term

?Purchasing Agent? shall mean ?Procurement Director.?

Section 3.6. Predatogy Lenders.
All System Purchases shall comply with the requirements set forth in Section 34-340 through

Section 34-3-43 (Predatory Lenders) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. The Procurement
Director shall coordinate with the Cook County Chief Financial Of?cer to enable him or her to
carry out the provisions of Section 34-3-40 through Section 34-343, regard to System

Purchases.

Section 3.7. Re-Entrv EmploymentlBitmleenLiyg.

All System Purchases shall comply with Section 34-349 through Section 34-358 (Re-Entry
Employmentl'Bid Incentive Ordinance), of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. The
Procurement Director shall comply with any requirements therein imposed upon the County?s
Purchasing Agent or the Of?ce of Purchasing Agent, other than those imposed in Section 34-
352(c). The Procurement Director shall cooperate with the Director of the County?s Office of
Contract Compliance in carrying out the purposes of Sections 34-349 through 34-358 of the
Cook County Code of Ordinances. For purposes of this Policy, the term ?Contract? as used in
Section 34-349 through 34-358 shall have the meaning ascribed as set forth in Part I, 
Provisions, Section 1.1, De?nitions, of this Policy and the term ?Using Department? shall mean

the System.

20

31

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
- Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Section 3.8. Child Support Payments.
All System Purchases shall comply with Section 34-366 through Section 34-370 (Child Support

Payments) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

PART IV. MINORITY-AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES

Section 4.1. Minority-And Women-Owned Business Entern??.

The System Board is committed to the County's policy to promote equal opportunity in its
procurement process, as well as to the County's goal that Protected Class Enterprises shall
participate in not less than 35 percent of the annual aggregate value of all contracts awarded by
the System. All System Purchases shall comply with Sec. 34?275 through Sec. 34-285 (Cook
County Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise) of the Cook County Code of
Ordinances; provided, however, that the Procurement Director shall have the duties and
responsibilities imposed therein upon the County?s Purchasing Agent and the Contract
Compliance Administrator or Of?ce of Contract Compliance; and that the System Board shall
have the powers and duties of the County Board, with the exception of the responsibilities of the
County Board?s Contract Compliance Committee as established in Sec. 34-278 (Staf?ng and
Responsibilities for Af?rmative Action) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

PART V. DISQUALIFICATION

All System Purchases shall comply with Division 4 (Disquali?cation Of Contractors And
Penalties) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances, except for Section 34?215 (Disqualification
due to a prior default or termination) which is the subject matter of Part V, Disquali?cation,

Section 5.1, Disquali?cation Due to a Prior Default or Termination, of this Policy.

Section 5.1. Mali?ea?on Due to a Prior Default or Termination.

No Person who has had an awarded Contract terminated for cause by the System Board or the
County Board shall be awarded a Contract or subcontract by the System. The period of
ineligibility shall continue for 24 months from the date the System Board or County Board

terminates the Contract.

21

32

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April '1 l, 2009

Where the System Board has terminated a Contract for cause, the Person(s) may apply to the
System Board for a reduction or waiver of the ineligibility period. The application shall be in
writing and- shall include documentation that one or all of the following conditions have
occurred:

There has been a bona ?de change in ownership or control;

(ii) Disciplinary action has been taken against the individual(s) reaponsible for the acts

giving rise to the ineligibility;

Remedial action has been taken to prevent a recurrence of the acts giving rise to the

ineligibility; or .

(iv) The System Board determines that the conduct of the Person(s) does not constitute a

pattern of behavior.
At the request of the Chief Executive Of?cer, the System Board may suspend the ineligibility
of a Person in order to allow for the award of a Contract. The CEO shall provide suf?cient facts
to establish that the public health, safety or welfare of the System requires the goods or services
and that purchase of the goods or services at a comparable price and quality from other sources is
not feasible. In the event the System Board grants a suspension, the period of ineligibility for the
award of a new Contract shall recommence from the date of completion of the Contract awarded
pursuant to the su5pension of the ineligibility period, and shall continue for the remainder of the
24-month period of ineligibility.
The System Board?s decision to reduce or waive the period of ineligibility, or to suspend
ineligibility for a speci?c Contract, shall be reduced to writing and shall specify the reasons for
the decision.
In addition to the ineligibility provided in this Section, the Procurement Director may reject a
specific bid or proposal, or a subcontractor proposed to be used in connection with that bid or
proposal, submitted by any Person who or which is in arrears upon any debt to the System or the
County or is in default of any Contract with the System or the County, or is a defaulter, as surety
or otherwise, upon any obligation to the System or the County, or is otherwise prohibited by law
or Ordinance from entering into the Contract. In addition, the Procurement Director may reject a

bid or proposal, or a subcontractor proposed to be used in connection with that bid or proposal,

22

33

Preposed Coolc County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

submitted by any Person deemed unquali?ed due to insuf?cient or unsatisfactory history of
credihvortl?ness or experience: in performing other contracts, including those involving the types
of responsibilities required under the Contract. The Procurement Director shall document the

reasons for such rejection.

Section 5.2. Disqga_li?cation for Tax and Fee Delinguency.

No Purchases shall be made them a Person delinquent in the payment of any tax (including
real estate tax) or fee administered by the County, a local municipality, or the Illinois
Department of Revenue.

Prior to making a Purchase in excess of $25,000.00, the Procurement Director shall obtain a
written certi?cation from the vendor that there is no delinquency in the payment of any such tax
or fee._ The content of such certi?cation shall be as provided in the procedures promulgated

pursuant to this Policy.

The System shall not be prohibited from making a Purchase: from a Person who is contesting I

liability for the amount of the delinquency in a pending administrative or judicial proceeding,
and shows proof of the contest; from a Person who has entered into an agreement with the
County, municipality, or Illinois Department of Revenue, for the payment of all delinquency
owed and veri?es compliance with the agreement; or if the Procurement Director certi?es in
writing to the System Board that it is in the interest of the public health, safety, or welfare of the
System to enter into such Purchase and that the System is unable to secure a Purchase that is

comparable in terms of price, quality, or quantity.

Section 5.3. Equali?catiomr Noncompliance with Child Support ONE.
All System Purchases shall comply with Sec. 34-131 (Disquali?cation for noncompliance with
child support orders) of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. The Procurement Director shall

comply with any requirements therein imposed upon the County?s Purchasing Agent.

Section 5.4. Disqualification for Withdrawal of Bid After Bid Opening.
No Purchase shall be made by the System from a bidder for a period of one year after the date of

the bid opening where such bidder cancels or withdraws its bid after the bid opening. The

23

34

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Procurement Director shall notify the County?s Purchasing Agent of any bidder who has been so

disquali?ed by the System.

Section 5.5. Notice to Cook Coi?ty Purchasing AM.

When information comes to the attention of the Procurement Director that a Person has been
convicted, made an admission of guilt or a plea of nolo contendere or otherwise falls within
Section 34-213 (1) through (8) (Persons and Entities Subject to Disquali?cation) of the Cook
County Code of Ordinances; has violated Section 34-216 (Offering gift to induce others not to
bid; bribe offer to government employee; willful violation) of the County Inspector General
Ordinance); or has been disquali?ed by the System, the Procurement Director shall provide
notice to the County Purchasing Agent of such information for further proceedings by the
County Purchasing Agent as set forth in Section 34-21? (Disquali?cation Procedures) of the
Cook County Code of Ordinances.

The Procurement Director shall regularly communicate with the Cook County Purchasing
Agent to determine if any Person(s) is disquali?ed pursuant to the Cook County Code of

Ordinances.

Section 5.6. D_isgualification of Owner, Partner or Shareholder.

Where a Person is disquali?ed under Part V, Disquali?cation, of this Policy any owner, partner,
or shareholder of that disquali?ed-Person who controls, directly or indirectly, 20 percent or more
of the disquali?ed Person, or is an officer of the disquali?ed Person, is also disquali?ed from
being awarded a contract or subcontract as provided in this Part V. If any of the Persons
disquali?ed pursuant to this Section 5.6 is also the owner, partner, or shareholder controlling 20
percent or more of another Person, that other Person will also be disquali?ed for a like period of

time from being awarded a contract or subcontract as provided in this Part V.
PART VI. INTEGRITY IN THE PROCUREMENT PROCESS
Section 6.1 Reporting Poten_tial Irregularities.
The System Board encourages any Person, including employees, to report any potential

irregularities in the System?s procurement process to the System?s Compliance Of?cer or the

Of?ce of the Cook County Independent Inspector General. In addition to any applicable laws

24

35

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

protecting whistleblowers, the System shall ensure that a report made in good faith will not result
in any adverse action taken by the System against the Person making such a report. The
Procurement Director?s procedures will include a mechanism to publish this provision to all

appr0priate employees and Persons.

Section 6.2. Communications.

For' all Purchases, the Procurement Director shall establish procedures to ensure that
communications from individuals outside the System regarding a Purchase shall be
memorialized and maintained the procurement ?le. Communications about a Purchase from
or on behalf of a System Director orelectcd of?cial shall also be memorialized and maintained
in the procurement ?le.

section 6.3. Soliciting Charitable Contribu_?0_gs_.

No Director of the System Board, directly, or through someone acting on his or her behalf, shall
knowingly solicit a charitable contribution from a vendor who?currently has or is seeking a
contract with the System, unless such solicitation is on behalf of a charity created by the System

or for the bene?t of the System.

Section 6.4. Code of Ethics of the Cook County Code of Ordinances.

The following relevant provisions of the Code of Ethics of the Cook County Code of Ordinances

are among those Code provisions that apply to System Purchases:

Limitations of contributions to candidates and elected of?cials.
No person who has done business with the County within the preceding
four years or is seeking to do business with the County or is a lobbyist
registered with the County shall make contributions in an aggregate amount
exceeding $1,500.00: I
(I) To any candidate for County of?ce or elected County official during a
single candidacy; or
(2) To an elected of?cial of the government of the County during any
nonelection year of his or her term.
The combined effect of these provisions is intended to permit total

contribution up to but not exceeding $3,000.00 in a year in which a

.25

36

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

candidacy occurs. A year for purposes of this section is from January 1 to
December 31 of each year.

For purposes of Subsection of this section, an entity and its
subsidiaries, parent company or otherwise af?liated companies, and any of
their employees, officers, directors and partners who make a political
contribution for which they are reimbursed by the entity or its af?liates shall
be considered a single person. However, nothing in this provision shall be
construed to prohibit such an employee, of?cer, director or partner from
making a political contribution for which he is not reimbursed by a person
with whom he or she is af?liated, even if that person has made the
maximum contribution allowed under Subsection of this section.

Any contributions made under this section shall be reported as required
by the Election Code, 10 ILCS 51? 1-1 et seq.

For purposes of Subsection of this section, "done business" or "doing
business" means any one or any combination of sales, purchases, leases or
contracts to, from or with the County or any County agency in excess of
$10,000.00 in any 12-consecutive months. "Done business" or ?doing
business" also means representation involving real property assessments,
property tax appeals, zoning matters, and property tax incentives, the total
fees of which earned or accrued by a person exceed $10,000.00 in any _12
consecutive months during the previous four years. . . .

For purposes of Subsection of this section, "seeking to do business"
means taking action within the past six months to obtain a contract or
business with the County when, if such action were successful, it would
result in the person doing business with the County as de?ned in Subsection
of this section.?

Interest in County business.

No elected of?cial or employee shall have a ?nancial interest in his or

her own name or in the name of any other person in any contract, work or

26

37

Preposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

business of the County or in the sale of any article, whenever the expense,
price or consideration of the contract, work, business or sale is paid with
funds belonging to or administered by the County. Compensation for
property taken pursuant to the County's eminent domain power shall not
constitute a ?nancial interest within the meaning of this section. Unless sold
pursuant to a process of competitive bidding following public notice, no
elected o??icial or employee shall have a ?nancial interest in the purchase of
any property that:

(1) Belongs to the County;

(2) Is sold for taxes or assessments; or

(3)15 sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the County.

No appointed of?cial shall engage in a transaction described in
Subsection of this section unless the matter is wholly unrelated to the
appointed of?cial's County duties and reSponsibilities.

For purposes of this section, the term "?nancial interest" shall not
include the interest of the spouse of an of?cial or employee which interest is
related to the independent occupation, profession or employment of the

spouse."

PART MISCELLANEOUS

Section Amendments to this Policy.
Any change to this Policy requires the approval of the System Board.

Section 7.2. Effective Date; Implementation Tran_sition.
This Policy shall be effective upon the approval of the System Board. This notwithstanding, in
order to provide for an orderly transition of reSponsibilities from the County?s Purchasing Agent
and the Of?ce of Contract Compliance to the System and the System?s Procurement Director,
theprovisions of this Policy will be implemented, in whole or in part, at the direction of the
Chief Executive Of?cer when in his or her discretion the System has the capability to undertake

the speci?c powers and responsibilities set forth herein.

27

38

39

Proposed Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Procurement Policy

April 11, 2009

Section 7.3. Article IV. Procurement Contracts. of the Cook Cough,r Code of
Ordinances.

This Policy refers to compliance with certain requirements set forth in Article IV, Procurement
and Contracts, of the Cook County Code of Ordinances. This Ordinance is available online at

305&sid=13.

END OF PROCUREMENT POLICY

28

