REPORT OF THE 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 

MAY 22, 2009 

ATTENDANCE 


i

Present:  

Chairman Warren b··aatts and Directors David A. Ansell, MD, MPH; Hon. Jerry Butler; David
Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, PhD, MPH, FACHE; Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM;
Luis Munoz, MD, MPH; Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM and Andrea Zopp (10)

Absent:  

Vice Chairman Ramirez (1)

/

Also Present:   Pitt Calkin - Interim Chief Financial Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System;
Matthew B. DeLeon - Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; William T.
I 
Foley -Chief Executive Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Randall Mark
Director of Policy Analysis, Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Stephen Martin, PhD,
MPH - Chief Operating Officer, Cook County Department of Public Health; Jeff McCutchan
Supervisor, Transactions and Health Law Division, Office of the State's Attorney; Elizabeth
Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Office of the State's Attorney
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on Friday,
May 22, 2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor
conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.
Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.
Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of members and
it was determined that a quorum was present.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

APPROV AL OF THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH 

AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 2009 


Director Butler, seconded by Director Munoz, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of the Cook
.County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Friday, April 24, 2009. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 22, 2009
Page 2

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE SPECIAL MEETING OF THE COOK COUNTY 

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF SATURDAY, MAY 16,2009 

Director Butler, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to approve the minutes of the special meeting of
the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Saturday, May 16, 2009. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

REPORT FROM SYSTEM BOARD CHAIRMAN WARREN L. BATTS
Chairman Batts reported on the following subjects:

Efforts on policy review work
Chairman Batts referenced the ongoing work on the review of policies; he reminded the Directors to continue
their progress in order for the recommendations to be brought to the Board for consideration.

Upcoming Public Hearing of the Cook County Board's Contract Compliance Committee
regarding GPOs and MBE/WBE compliance
Chairman Batts made a brief statement regarding the upcoming Public Hearing of the Cook County Board's
Contract Compliance Committee to discuss group purchasing organizations (GPOs) and MBE/WBE
compliance. He referenced the enabling ordinance and its directive that the System Board find ways to reduce
the cost ofthe System's purchases. He stated that it has been indicated that a considerable amount of money can
be saved through the utilization of GPOs, possibly $40 million and even up to $60 million per year, based upon
the basic commodity-type products purchased by the System.
Additionally, Chairman Batts provided examples of hospitals/health care entities outside of the System that
currently utilize GPOs, and who have minority and women business enterprise goals. One of these entities, the
University of Chicago Medical Center, recently had representatives appear before the System Board's Finance
Committee to present information on their successful diversity program and initiatives.

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM 

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER WILLIAM T. FOLEY 

Mr. Foley presented the following (Attachment #1):

Chief Executive Officer's 90 Day - 6 Month - 1 Year Plan for the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System
Mr. Foley went over the plan presented, and invited the Directors to provide input on any additions or
modifications they would like his focus upon over the next year. Discussion took place on several of the
subjects mentioned in the plan.

 REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 22, 2009
Page 3

Mr. Foley referenced the perfonnance improvement assessment that is currently being done by Navigant
Consulting, which is expected to be done within three months. Their assessment should provide opportunities
for perfonnance improvement in areas such as revenue cycle, labor and non-labor productivity, and physician
services. He noted that there will be a request for proposals (RFP) for the services needed to implement the
opportunities found as a result of the perfonnance improvement assessment.
Mr. Foley stated that he would like to create the Office of Perfonnance Improvement, which will coordinate the
activities of the various consultants involved in System functions and activities. Additionally, he reviewed the
timeframe for the System's take-over of human resource and purchasing functions.
The Board discussed senior leadership positions and recruitment efforts. Mr. Foley stated that the System needs
its own Chief Financial Officer, Chief Medical Officer, and Chief Infonnation Officer. Discussion took place
on the status of recruitment efforts for the following positions: Chief Compliance Officer; head of Public
Relations and Communications; and Director of Human Resources. Director Munoz added that further
infonnation on the recruitment of a Chief Compliance Officer would be provided during his presentation of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Report later in the meeting.
With regard to the assessment of physician services, Chainnan Batts referenced Director Lyne's working group
that reviews medical school relationships; he suggested that the workgroup be involved with the review of
physician services. Director Lyne agreed that intennittently, such involvement would be beneficial.
Chainnan Batts stated for the record that the working group he appointed to review medical school
relationships, headed up by Director Lyne, and composed of Vice Chainnan Ramirez and Director O'Donnell,
will also work on the assessment of physician services.
Mr. Foley stated that an important piece not yet included in the plan is service excellence. Where it fits in the
plan is still to be detennined, but its importance is worth mentioning. He noted that it was striking to find out
that an employee satisfaction survey at Stroger Hospital has not been done in a couple of years, and that was
concerning. He believes that service excellence begins with the employees, physicians and staff; it is important
to engage them and have a vision for the System. His revised plan will include goals relating to service
excellence.
Director Zopp suggested that the plan include the goal of building relationships with all of the key stakeholders,
such as the employees, unions, County Commissioners, and the public.
Chainnan Batts stated that if there is consensus among the Board that the plan is appropriate, then he would ask
the Human Resources Committee to work with Mr. Foley to work out an incentive plan, which includes targets
and rewards.
Human Resources Committee Chainnan Zopp agreed that that would be an appropriate direction.
Director Ansell stated that the System needs a strategy on nursing. Mr. Foley agreed, stating that he will work
with the Quality and Patient Safety Committee on that subject. Chainnan Batts added that in a recent meeting
with United States Senator Richard Durbin, it was suggested that the System work with other regional partners
to jointly develop a plan that would relieve the nursing problem. Director Carvalho referenced work being done
by the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council on this subject.

 REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 22, 2009
Page 4

Director Carvalho requested that Mr. Foley or one of the System Committees look into the question of why the
System does not do screening mammograms. In addition, Director Golden requested that the exact amount of
reimbursement that each hospital receives for such screenings be provided; she thought that reimbursement
amounts may differ between Stroger Hospital and Provident, for example! .
Mr. Foley concluded by reviewing efforts on strategic planning. He stated that the next step is community
engagement and how to proceed. They are talking about having multiple town hall meetings throughout the
County. A series of meetings early on in the process could be held to seek information; later on in the process
when there is a plan, there will be meetings to roll out the proposed strategies and receive input.

COMMITTEE REPORT
Quality and Patient Safety Committee ............................Meeting of 4-28-09* 

* note: Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointmentsiChanges, as
amended, were approved by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee at
this meeting.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Munoz, moved to approve the Report of the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee for the meeting of April 28, 2009. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

COMMITTEE REPORT
Finance Committee ..................................................Meeting of 4-30-09* 

* note: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended, were approved by
the Finance Committee at this meeting.
During the discussion of the Finance Committee Report, the subject of contract compliance arose. Chairman
Batts requested that the Director of the County's Department of Contract Compliance be invited to an upcoming
Board meeting to provide the Board with further information on the subject. 2

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Finance Committee
for the meeting of April 30,2009. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 22, 2009
Page 5

COMMITTEE REPORT
Human Resources Committee .....................................Meeting of 5-01-09 

Director Zopp noted that she would present an update to the Board in closed session on an item that was
discussed in closed session at the Human Resources Committee meeting.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Human Resources
Committee for the meeting of May 1,2009. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

COMMITTEE REPORT
Audit and Compliance Committee. .. . . . . . .. ... ... ....... .. . . . ... Meeting of 5-14-09

Director Munoz, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Audit and Compliance
Committee for the meeting of May 14, 2009. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

COMMITTEE REPORT
Finance Committee ..................................................Meeting of 5-15-09* 

* note: the following were approved by the Finance Committee at this
meeting: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended; a proposal for
ERP acquisition; and a real estate matter.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Finance Committee
for the meeting of May 15, 2009. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Director Carvalho recused himself and voted PRESENT on request numbers 12 and 19, under the
Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended, contained in the Report of the Finance Committee for the
meeting of May 15, 2009.

REVIEW AND APPROVE REQUEST TO ENTER INTO AND EXECUTE CONTRACT WITH
NAVIGANT CONSULTING FOR TURNAROUND ASSESSMENT AND CONSULTING SERVICES
(Attachment #2)

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director O'Donnell, moved to approve the request to enter into and
execute a contract with Navigant Consulting for turnaround assessment and consulting services. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 22, 2009
Page 6

REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION FOR THE PURCHASING AGENT 

TO ENTER INTO AND EXECUTE CONTRACT 

(Attachment #3) 

Review and approve request for authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into and
execute contract with AT & T Corporation, to provide video conference equipment, as well as
associated services, including configuration, installation, implementation, training and
maintenance services, for the Cook County Department of Public Health to communicate
during normal and emergency operations with those governmental and non-governmental
offices inside and outside County government.
Dr. Stephen Martin, Chief Operating Officer of the Cook County Department of Public Health, presented
additional information on the request, and responded to questions relating to the funding source and scope of the
contract.
Director Butler, seconded by Director O'Donnell, moved to approve the request for authorization for the
Purchasing Agent to enter into and execute a contract with AT & T. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

REQUEST TO APPLY FOR GRANT
(Attachment #4)
Request from the Cook County Department of Public Health for authorization to apply for a
grant from the National Association of County & City Health Officials (NACCHO), in the
amount of $400,000.00, to work in collaboration with the Public Health Institute of
Metropolitan Chicago, a not for profit organization with expertise in the administration of
grants involving public health projects, and with the University of Illinois at Chicago School of
Public Health (UICSPH).
Dr. Martin provided an overview of the request presented.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the request from the .Cook County
Department of Public Health to apply for a grant from the National Association of County and City
Health Officials. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Director Greenspan recused himself and voted PRESENT.

REPORT FROM CCHHS AD HOC WORKING GROUP
ON MEDICAL SCHOOL RELATIONSHIPS
Director Lyne stated that she expected to report on the subject at the next meeting ofthe Board.

 REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 22, 2009
Page 7

REPORT FROM CCHHS AD HOC WORKING GROUP 

ON LEGISLATIVE COMMUNICATIONS 

Director O'Donnell presented a report on behalf of the working group on legislative communications. The
group, composed of Director O'Donnell, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Director Carvalho, has recently met with
the System Chief Operating Officer, David Small, and Randall Mark, Director of Policy Analysis for the
System, to review legislative initiatives. One of the topics discussed was a possible legislative effort which
would require other counties to contribute to the cost for their residents' health care, jf they are treated at the
System. She stated that they will be meeting soon to follow up on that discussion. .

MISCELLANEOUS
Director Ansell informed the Board that the National Association of Public Hospitals has an annual quality
award. He stated that a System program, WeAsk SBIRT (Screening, Brief Intervention, Referral and
Treatment), set up by Dr. Jennifer Smith, has been given this award. The Quality and Patient Safety Committee
will receive an overview of the program by Dr. Smith at their meeting on May 26, 2009.

UPDATE FROM AD HOC STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE
Discussion on this subject took place during Mr. Foley's earlier report presented to the Board.

DISCUSSION OF PERSONNEL MATTERS
DISCUSSION OF LABOR NEGOTIATIONS

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to recess the regular session and convene into closed
session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), et seq., which permits
closed meetings for consideration of "collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees," and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which permits
closed meetings for consideration of "the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body,
including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity."
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Lyne, .seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
MAY 22, 2009
Page 8

ADJOURNMENT

Director Munoz, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn.
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

THE MOTION CARRIED

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

w~ h ~rilf;

Warren L. Batts, Chairman

The following was requested or was indicated as a follow~up item at this meeting:
I Follow~up: request that Mr. Foley or one of the System Committees look into the question of why the System
does not do screening mammograms. Also, request that the exact amount of reimbursement 'each hospital
receives for such screenings be provided. On page 4.

2 Follow~up: Request that the Director of the County's Department of Contract Compliance be invited to an
upcoming Board meeting to provide the Board with further information on the subject of compliance. On page
4.

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
May 22> 2009

ATTACHMENT #1 


 WILLIAM T. FOLEY 

CCHHSCEO 

90 DAY-6 MONTH-l YEAR PLAN 

MAY 22, 2009 

9/1/09:
-Complete Navigant Consulting Perfonnance Improvement Assessment. 

-Initiate ERP installation. 

-Revise MedAssets agreement. 

-Establish Office ofPerfonnance Improvement and hire a Director as an interim, full-

time position for a period of no longer than 1 year.
-Hire Director of Human Resources.
-Hire Director of Public Relations/Communications.
-Complete Solucient FTE benchmarking study and implement Phase 1 reduction-in-force.
-Select Group Purchasing Organization (GPO) and finalize agreement.

12/1/09:
-Complete Phase 1 of perfonnance improvement project with focus on revenue cycle
management, labor productivity, non-labor productivity, and physician services.
-Complete Phase 1 ofERP installation: financial reporting/general ledger.
-Implement Phase 2 reduction-in-force.
-Hire CCHHS CFO.
-Hire CCHHS CMO.
-Hire CCHHS CIO.
-Finalize and approve CCHHS Strategic Plan.
-Finalize and approve CCHHS 3-Year Financial Plan.

6/1/10:
-Complete Phase 2 (final phase) ofperfonnance improvement project including staff
education and training.
-Complete Phase 2 ofERP installation: human resources, payroll, productivity, supply
chain.
-Implement Phase 1 strategic plan strategies.

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
May 22,2009

ATTACHMENT #2 


 1

CCHHS Board Agenda of 05/22/09
Item #8
Proposed Contract with Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI)

Part 1- Navigant Consulting Inc. Contract
Exhibit A - Scope of Work
Exhibit B - Payment Terms
Table of Tasks
Part II - General Conditions
Economic Disclosure Statement and 

Execution Document

Begins on (top right comer page numbers) 

Page 2 

Page 4 

Page 16 

Page 21 

Page 26 

Page 40 


 APPROVED
PART I 


CONTRACT FOR SERVICE BETWEEN 

THE COUNTY OF COOKlCOOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS 

SYSTEM AND 

Navigant Consulting Inc (NCI) 


This Contract is made and entered into by and between the County of Cook, Illinois, a
body politic and corporate, ("County") through its Cook County Health and Hospitals System
("System"), and Navigant Consulting Inc, or NCI ("Contractor"), with its principal pJace of
business at 30 S Wacker Drive, Suite 3100, Chicago, IL 60606.
WHEREAS, the System makes health care services available- to persons who reside in
Cook County, Illinois, regardless oftbeir ability to pay, including the provision ofheaIth care to
the indigent in a proficient and compasSionate manner, and performs this function through the
System which, through its health care delivery system, provides ambulatory and hospital health
services; and,
WHEREAS, the System requires the following services: specific assessment services as
part of"turnaromd" consulting to the System ("Services") and
wHEREAS, the Contractor is willing and able to supply the Services on the terms and
conditions provided and in conSideration for the fees set forth herein; and;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual undertakings herein
set forth, the parties agree as follows:

I.

SCOPE OF WORK

The Contractor agrees to perfonn the Services that are described in Exhibit A, Scope of Work.
All such work must be completed by August 31, 2009.
D.

TERM

This Contract shall commence upon approval by the Board and shall continue until August 31,
2009. This Contract may be extended upon-the mutual agreement of Contractor and the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System Board ("System Board").
DI.

~OMPENSATION AND

PAYMENT

Compensation and Payment shall be made as set forth in Exhibit B, Pawent Tenns.
IV.

GENERAL CONDITIONS

This Contract incorporates and is subject to the provisions attached hereto as Part II, General
Conditions for Contract for Service-Sole Source.

2

 3

V.

EXHIBITS

The Contract incorporates the following Exhibits attached hereto:
Exhibit A., Scope of Work; 

Exhibit B Payment Tenns; and 

Exhibit C CCHHS Board Authorization to Enter into Contract 

Table ## It High~level Assessment Work Plan. 

VI.

ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

In the event that there is a conflict between or among any of the tenns and conditions of any of
the documents described below (which are collectively referred to "herein as the "Contract"), the
order of precedence to be used in interpreting the documents, from highest to lowest in priority
and precedence, shall be as follows:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)

Part 1; Contract for Service;
Part II, General Conditions;
Exhibit A. Scope of Work;
Exhibit B, Payment Tenns; and
Table ## 1. High-level Assessment Work Plan.
EDS fonns

ENDOFPARTI.

 4

EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF WORK
I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:

. The Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) has determined that in the course of
effecting significant improvement to operations across the System, additional external expertise
is needed to augment and assist management in assessing priority areas for improvement,
develop the necessary plans to carryout turnaround efforts, and implement these plans in the
achievement of the stated operational improvements. The CCIrnS has ehosen Navigant
Consulting, Inc., a publicly traded organization headquartered in Chicago, IL. Navigant has a
very large healthcare consulting practice with over 400 professionals with the requisite expertise
and track record in assisting healthcare organizations with similar turnaround projects.
TI. SERVICES:

An overview ofthe scope of work to be performed by Navigant Consultingl Inc. ("Contractor"),
deliverables and anticipated project schedule follows.
The scope of services outlined in this contract includes Cook County Hospitals and Health System 

("CCHHS") entities of: 


• John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospjtal ("JSH")
•
•
•
•
•

Oak Forest Hospital ("OFH")
Provident Hospital ("PHCC")
Department of Public Health ("DPH") (5cope to be further defined prior to agreement]
Ambulatory and Community Health Network ("ACHN")
Health System corporate services

The focus is in five primary areas and organized as follows:

1. Physician Alignment
2. Operations
3. Supply Chain
4. Clinical Resource Management
. The operation areas are discussed below.
Transformation begins wIth ~ holistic review of the organization and corporate services. The results of
our assessment will yield a portfolio of opportunities which offer a variety of approaches and returns.
While we will certainly seek out quick wins, our experience tells us that the combination of effective
strategy; effective physician integration; and IT enabled process improvement are the key eJements to
sustainable transformation.

Rev5.1S.09

 5

The areas for process tranSformation include four of the five areas within scope:
•
•
•
•

Physician Alignment
Workforce Efficiency I Operations
Clinical Utilization Management
Supply Chain

Physician Alignment

Physician alignment is critical to clinical resource management and supply chain management. During
financial turnarounds, we would focus on areas where rapid revenue enhancement and expense
reduction opportunities would be generated. These areas include:

Financial
•
•

Physician compensation and productivity
Contracting/compensation

Operational
•
•
•
•

Capacity Management
Demand Management
Access Management
Flow Management

Clinical

•
•
•
•
•

Clinical efficiency
Quality metries and performance
Patient safety reporting
Risk management, structure, trends, and performance
Preference iter:qs and clinical supplies

StrategidOrganizationll1
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Rev S. 15.09

Governance and committee structures
Executive management, departmental roles and structures
Leadership effectiveness
Related-party and affiliated relationships
Quality and peer review process
Clinical program management
Fundsflow

 6

Workforce Efficiency

Defining opportunities for labor reduction begins with improving operations thereby redu.cing excess
staff. In order to develop a portfolio of sustainable savings, we would evaluate operations on a multi­
level step:

Area of

Pel'fol'm,mce Vari;Jhles ilnd Standards

Transformation
I>

Structure

»
),

),

»
»

Resource Usage

»

»

»

Human Resource
Management

»
.)

..
),

Process Review

»
»
»)

»
))

Productivity
Systems

"
)

»

,.
Culture and Change
Management

"

»

.

Rev 5.15.09

Mission and service a6gnment
Number of management levels by Department
Span of control tarRets
Comparison VB. peer "best practices"
F1'Es and work hours (paid/worked)
Overtime, agency and sitters
Salary expense/rates
Union contract reqUirements
Policies and procedures
Compensation structure
Outsourcing arrangements
Recruitment, retention &: workforce availability
Ability to adapt to surge
Patient throughput and capaclty management
Patient Care delivery processes
AI:tclllaryisupport processes
Utilization & care management
Technology enabled process efficiencies
Productivity tools/metrics
Resource usage against productivity standards
Strengths and weaknesses of tools
Constituent feedback on structure, service focus and resource
utilization
Impediments, constraints and risks in force reduction
Union related processes
County reQuirements and processes

 7

Results of this review would provide CCHHS with the foundation for sustainable improvements.

Clinical Utilization Management

Clinical Utilization Management assessment will help CCHHS improve clinical and operational practices
and patterns, while maintaining, and improving where possible, patient care. This initiative will require
focused reviews in several areas, including: a) analysis of length-of-stay (LOS), b) evaluation of processes
across the patient care continuum to identify opportunities to improve patient flow, cost per patient
encounter, patient satisfaction and capacity, and c) identification of opportunities to enhance cost quality
and service through strengthening medical staff alignment.

The LOS analysis provides high-level insight into the opportunity for improvement in Clinical Resource
Management (as illustrated in the diagram below), which affects most areaS of operations and patient
care related activities. NCI will analyze length of patient stay by natural categories and determine
CCHHS' acute facilities' current level of perfonnance. Based on these results, we will establish the range
of potential improvements in LOS and its corresponding impact on patient care delivery, clinical
'
resources and cost-per-case.

Rev 5.15.09

 8

Elements of Clinical Resource Management include:

Through quantitative and qualitative review, we will seek to identify opportunities in areas such as:

Admission, Bed Management and Patient Movement
•   Patient intake process and procedures from entry/admission points
•   Bed management processes - placement, transfer, room coordination and disposition
•   Environmental Services - staffing model/scheduling, discharge bed turnover processes
and communicaticmlnotification systems
•   Transport Services - smUmg model/scheduling, inpatient and patient discharge processes
and communication/notification systems

Qzse Mtuzagemcnt &

Care Coordination

•   Roles of case management, utilization review and social work with respect to care
facilitation, discharge planning, resource utilization and clinical outcomes
•   WorkfJows and structures to ensure day-ta-day priorities are met and that goals are
achieved
•   Technology, or other applications, employed to improve efficiency and effectiveness of
staff
•   Observation patient status and one day stay usage/oversight
•   Denial management policies/procedures

Rev 5.15.09

 9

Medical StaffInterfaeelllWolvement
"
"
"
"
"

Physician practice patterns in patient flow "hot spots", examples include: telemetry,
observation and consults
"House staff c:overage"/Hospitalist programs and roles for mid-level providers (including
physician assistants and nurse practitioners, other)
Unit Medical Director role and usage in monitored bed units to drive/maintain utilization
Physician Advisor role' and usage across the case management/care coordination
continuum
Medical staff/administrative interface relative, to patient flow and presence of joint,
common approaches to addressing barriers

Supply Chain & Clinical Support
" Product selection and utilization programs/initiatives (e.g. Value Analysis and/or
Product Standardization committees)
" Procedural cost per case in high volume, high doUar services .
Supply Chain

Our general approach to Supply Chain improvement was developed around the principles of client
interaction, knowledge transfer, and sustained improvement. This process will involve:
•   Analyze data from the following: 

.... Accounts payable report 

-+ Products / services purchased 

.... General ledger. level detailed report 

.... Pharmaceutical purchase report (velocity report) 

.... High level financial and statistical data 

•   Benchmark using NCI database for comparative hospitals
•   Conduct second level of analysis using product and payment reports to identify specific
pricing and utilization opportunities to develop portfolio of opportunities and savings
potential
•   Interview key constituents within the supply chain I materials management department
to understand operational practices
•   Evaluate results of analytical review with findings of operational review
•   Refine magnitude of opportunity and identify specific opportunities in pricing and
utilization
•   Validate opportunities with constituents. as appropriate

Each initiative will be documented for appropriate approvals with established tracking mechanisms to
ensure realization. We organize supply chain initiatives by categories of products and services (e.g.,

Rev 5.15.09

 10

clinical, non-clinical etc.) as noted in scope, and by types of opportunities. Specific areas for prioritized
review will include:
•

•

•

•

•

Physician Preference Items
• Orthopedic Implants
• Spinal Implants
• Pacemakers & Defibrillators
• Stents
Purchased Services
• Agencyrremp Services
• Outsourced Support Services
• Biomedical Engineering
• Imaging Services
Clinical Commodity Items
• Suture
• Blood
Pharmacy
• Wholesaler Contracting
• 340b Pricing
• Drug Utilization Management
Laboratory

Implementation Vehicles

A solid Implementation structure is a necessity for driving opportunities through to completion.
Although implementation is outside the scope of this contract, we will help design the appropriate
implementation structure towards the end of the assessment. The implementation structure should
consist of the following: a) appropriate CCHHS initiative sponsors/team members, b) NCI support
resources, and c) tracking, management, communication and measurement tools required to ensure
successful implementation and realization of improvement opportunities.

The following example of an implementation structure for workforce management shows a form in
which the above, noted Operational Restructuring includes all organizational functions. With this type of
structure, NO would help coach, mentor, provide best-practice tools and facilitate infrastructure
requirements to expedite implementation activities and outcomes.

RevS.J5.m

 11

.. Consll"uct Workfon;e MlmagementSb'ring  

Team  
• 0sgani7.e by task fol'Cll at the hospital-lcvc1  
•  Types of suppaI'!! Devdop WLU; 1m pbm;
coaching as needed, tools as needed,.

redesign Ilk:.

Membellhip:
\\'o:,lf{'\r(~ ,\1,111"S,,"fWl1t
51!'~!!11!1 CVIIItHH~'t'

". Wcec;utive!pD_
• Hospllal CNOs and ho$pilal execs
over $elect sem~
• Clair" from functiollilllUk COK't!$

• NCi I'rojec:t Managemenl Te;un

Within workforce management, durjng implementation, we would begin introducing and implementing
steps for reaJization. For CCHHS, these steps may include:
1.   Review and define process for implementing with Union Contracts
2.   Engage County Council and other appropriate governmental entities to gain support
3.   Organize the process to fadlitate implementation schedules to realize benefits 

Meet with initiative leads to gain commitment to timelines and agree upon action steps 

Determine opportunities to expedite activities by sharing NCI knowledge related to: 

a.   Best practice process opportunities
b.   Policy and procedural functions
c.   Management tools
d.   Issue and risk mitigation strategies
e.   Supplementation strategies in areas where CCHHS needs focus
f.   Straw modeJ process flows based on our observations - so that designs do not have to
begin from blank pages requiring additional, unnecessary consumption of resources
g.   Job description modifications, as appropriate
h.   Collaboration opportunities with internal departments to facilitate implementationi e.g.,
work with Human Resources to support needs through attrition plans, modifications to
job descriptions etc.
i.   Physician andlor management advisor roles
j.   Education and training related to identified improvement opportunities
k.   NCI subject matter specialists available to perspective and facilitate process
4.   Bring together the appropriate resources - within CCHHS and NCI- via one-time meetings, work
groups and reoccurring work sessions for .the specific purpose of address the issues at hand
5.   Establish a measurement and monitoring function which will be an extension of the project
management process
6.   Communicate with CCHHS oversight committee, engagement sponsors, initiative leads and work
teams per defined intervals and as needed

RevS.1S.09

 12

Our method of operation in an implementation effort is to position engagement sponsors and initiative
for success. In doing so, we view initiatives from various angles - management, customer, process owner
- to determine efficient ways to impiement and preempt obstacles.

Given our experienc~ we apply proven methodologies in conducting assessments, prioritizing 

opportunities and mobilizing workforce for implementation. The tools which we apply are OUf 

benchmarking databases and project management tools, which we typically agree upon in conjunction 

with clients' preferences. 

Our methods for conducting a validation in each of these areas are well developed and based on the 

principles of: 

•
•
•
•
•

methodical review
high degree of interaction
pragmatic recommendations
achievable transformation
sustainable improvement

Our method is simple, weD-organized, hence, we spend less time on project logistics and more time on
gaining organizational insights. This enables us to reduce the time needed to launch and mobiUze our
resources. Given our proven method" Our outputs are structured to accommodate both frequently
occurring opportunities across our client base as well as an organization's unique opportunities for
operational and financial improvement.

In additio~ we will work with your IT service provider to ensure that process change initiatives are
enabled by existing technologies (to the extent possible) and that the necessary reporting is available for
ongOing measurement.

Applied Methodology - Conceptual

NO's approach provides a unique
combination of a "top-down"and
"bottom-up" process whereby we utilize
operational benchmarking as a focusing
yet work with department/functional
leadership in a UOOttom-up" process to
develop pragmatic solutions.

"I~

,.'. -- .

"~.

--_.. '----i
tool

~ .~ ........-.. 


I

~•••••••_,••••••••_........J

,I

ii

Change complexity and drivers of
opportunities, we find, ,take on an array
Rev 5.15.09

Ii.


La~l '-­ --­

IH~

of

 13

forms - from quick wins to process and cultural changes:

•   Quick Wins:

solutions are apparent; team leaders/members are early adopters; ready
acceptance of change

•   Management Disciplines:

process for monitoring of key metrics (currently available, existing
systems, etc.); accountability structures and processes to ensure that results are achieved and
sustained

•   Policy Development and Chnnges: Need for revised policies and procedures and corresponding
educational needs to accompany policy changes

•   Practice Changes:

EstablishlReconfigure key decision-making teams; clinical support
interdisciplinary teams such as case management; patient throughput; infrastructure support;
value analysis; human resources, etc.

•   Strategies for Communication nPld FeedbRck:

communication between multi-disciplinary
decision-making teams and staff; managing physician expectations and communication

•   Process Improvement opportunities; e.g.,
a.   identify select activities or work processes which could be eliminated, modified or
improved with or without existing or future technology;
b.   change in staffing models for patient care areas and work with selected clinical
leadership to transition the ongoing process

•

Cultural Change: identifying cultural transformation needs, if any, in initiating change.

Although opportunities for improvement are typically a blend of multiple drivers, opportunities will be
evaluated for the most appropriate sequencing of initiatives for implementation. The sequencing of
initiatives will be contingent upon factors such as culture, process owner buy-in, the need for quick wins
to gather momentum, etc.
Applied Methodology - Process

Ncr will use a 5-step approach as outlined below.
Step 1: Project Organization and Process

Ncr will report to the engagement sponsor(s). We will collaborate with the engagement sponsor(s} to
create the optimal leadership structure for this project. Key activities in project structure development
will include:
• 
• 
• 
• 

Integrate with Benchmarking & Cost Reduction Steering Committee
Develop Communication Plan
Develop Human Resources Plan
Complete Data Collection

RevS.1S.09

 14

Step 2: Evaluate and analyze operations through qualitative and quantitative analyses
We wiU review current work-to~date and plans. We will interview constituents from each entity within
the scope and representatives from each of the functional areas to better understand existing operations
as well as the following:
•   Management structure and current span of control within the departments
•   Staffing levels, relative to workload; flex staffing
•   Operational structure and other factors of efficiency - facility layout technology use.
communication and leadership
•   Inter and intra-departmental communication, etc.

Step 3: Validate opportunities and define new opportunities

We will identify preliminary opportunities, related operational impact and practicality within CCHHS.
With these initial opportunities, we will determine the level of operational or organizational changes
required and theIr ultimate viability in the short- and long-tenn. These opportunities will then be vetted
with key owners and/or with leadership to distill those which are practical for CCHHS and determine the
priority of each opportunity.

Step 4: Prioritize opportunities and develop implementation plan
Following validation, we will create a portfolio of recommendations to reflect revised organizational
structures, responsibilities, service and finandal improvements. The recommendations will be prioritized
for implementation with a timeline and high level implementation plan.

Our approach to prioritizing implementation of opportunities will be based on balancing ease of
achieving with those requiring progressive change efforts. Conceptual illustration of our prioritization is
shown by the following graph:

Step 5: Define measures and implementation structure
For CCHHS to track implementation, we will provide current and target measures for operating and
service performance, where applicable. This will be supported by recommended implementation
RevS.TS.09

 15

structure which will likely indude a subset of the Sleering Committee, if applicable. We will also discuss,
if appropriate, any implementation gaps and needs.

At the conclusion of the assessment phase, we wUl provide target performance measure based on
CCHHS' improvement opportunities.
The assessment process would take between eight and twelve weeks and involve approximately 18 - 25
people. Project Management, consisting of a Project Director and Analyst, would predominantly remain
on-site approximately four days per week for the duration of the engagement. Our Project Director
would be an experienced executive with depth in consulting. Subject Matter Specialists consisting of
experienced dinicians, physicians, operations executives and business analysts would be on-site to
conduct the assessment. Our approach is to conduct an assessment by being on~site for 70% - 8O"k of the
engagement so that we are accessible and available to dient staff and leadership.
For this engagement, we propose the following individuals. Of course, our staffing is contingent upon
timing of the engagement and staff availability; however, we expect the following individuals will lead
their respective segments.
Role

Lead Resources

E.ngagement Oversight

David Zito and David Burik

E.ngagement Director

Paula Douglass and Thomas Honan

Finance

Thomas Honan

Patient Throughput - Facilities

Christopher Newman

Physician Integration I Alignment

JudiSbnlnon~Nfl)

Operations

Ginger Campbell. RN, Ph.D or Edward Wenzke and
Pam Sapienza, RN
I

Clinical Resource Utilization

Louise Bedard, RN and Roger Kaiser, MD

Supply Chain

Rosemary Grandusky &:: Paul Kreder

Assessment Work Plan (see attached Table # I)
IV. CONTACT INFORMATION
Navigant Consulting, Inc

David P. Zito, Managing Director
Healthcare Practice Leader
30 S. Wacker Drive, Suite 3100
Chicago, IL 60606
Rev 5.15.09

CCHHS
William T. Foley
Chief Executive Officer
1900 W. Polk, Suite 220
Chicago, IL 60612

 16

EXHIBITB
PAYMENT TERMS

The Contractor will be paid a fixed fee for this assessment in the amoWlt of$1,415,OOO. This fee
will be paid in four equal increments of $353,750 plus out-of-pocket expenses. The first
payment will be made upon execution oflhis contTact
The Contractor will invoice CCHHS for the remaining three installments at the conclusion of
each four week period of this project. These invoices will include both the fixed fee as well as
out-of-pocket expenses (such as travel, lodging, etc.) incurred by the Contractor. Contractor
shall follow its expense policy standards, attached as Exhibit B-1, to support the invoicing of any
out-of..pocket expenses submitted. The total amount of any out-of-pocket expenses will not
exceed 15% of the total professional fee or $212,250.
The total amount of this contract will not exceed 51,627,250.
All invoices will be paid within 60 days of receipt. Contractor shall have, in its sole discretion,
the right to suspend services under this Contract without any further obligation to CCHHS in the
event any undisputed invoice amounts are more than ninety (90) days past due.

 17

EXBlBITB-l

EXPENSE POLICY STANDARDS

GENERAL
Employees shall be reimbursed for business expenses on the basis of the submission of an
expense report. The form must be properly documented, with all information provided as
required. The employee must sign and date the expense report attesting that all reported
expenses were incurred for a valid business purpose in conformance with NCI's policy and
guidelines. An authorized signature may be required, as well.

RECEIPTS
Employees must submit original receipts for all expenses exceeding $25 or more.
Improperly documented items will not be reimbursed.

IRS accepts only those receipts bearing the name and address of the establishment as
part of the receipt. Original receipts ar~ required. Receipts should include the name
and location of the vendor, date and amount. A credit card statement is not a
preferred form of receipt but may be used for lost or missing receipts. Credit card
statements often lack the detail that is required for auditing. Acceptable receipts are as
follows:

•   Airline tickets - The receipt should show the dates of travel,
departure/destination locations, fare class, ticket number and price. The Agency
itinerary should accompany electronic tickets with boarding passes provided
when available.
•   Airline change fees - The change fee must be clearly noted and associated with
a purchased airline ticket. The airline ticket dollar history should be outlined in
terms of the original amount, change fee amount, and new ticket amount.
•   Car rental - The receipt must show the number of rental days, the rentar location
and the breakdown of charges.
•   Hotel- The itemized hotel bill. Adequate documentation should show the name
and location of the hotel, the dates of stay with separate amounts for lodging,
taxes. meals. telephone charges. etc.
•   Telephone/Cell Phone - An itemized bill! receipt showing the telephone 

numbers called. 


 18

•   Other - Credit card receipts may be used as receipts for smaller purchased
items, such as meals and taxis.

AIR TRAVEL
All domestic air travel should be booked'as coach class and in general, should be the lowest
cost flight as provided by the NCI Travel Agency, at the time of ticketing, which in general
should be an advanced purchase.

GROUND TRANSPORTATION
Automobile rentals are authorized when such use is clearly in the business interest of the
Company and is cost-effective. The employee should rent an intermediate class automobile.
Automobile rentals should be booked through Avis and the reservation guaranteed with the
Company Charge Card. Alternative providers may be used when the rate is cost effective.
Liability coverage is maintained by NO for all employees on Company business. As such} the
traveler should decline additional liability coverage. Supplementary loss damage/collision
damage and liability insurance purchased by the employee is not reimbursable by the
Company.
Employees traveling together are expected to share a rental car.
Employees should refuel just prior to return of the automobile to avoid rental companies'
premiums over the local market price for gasoline
Employees who are required to use their own automobiles on company business will be
reimbursed for mileage driven. NCr re~burses personal automobile use at the IRS published
reimbursement rate.

If an employee is traveling by personal automobile on company business, NCI requires the
employee to carry, at the employee's expense, public liability and damage insurance at the
minimum required by law.

LODGING
Hotel selection should be based on the general convenience of the property to the work
aSSignment, as well as comfort} safety} general satisfaction of the accommodations.

 19

Employees will be reimbursed for actual and reasonable lodging costs incurred. In general,
accommodations should be made in mid-priced properties ($120 - $180) if possible. It is
understood that business travel can coinqde with "high season" traffic or special events that
inflate otherwise average-price accommodations. If this occurs, make a note on the hotel bill
when it is submitted for reimbursement.
Late checkout fees are reimbursable with sufficient business justification.
When submitting Lodging expenses on the report, the employee must separate the cost of the
room and room tax, from other incidental charges on the receipt (meals, laundry, etc.) The
incidentals must be entered separately. with the appropriate cost code.

MEALS
"Meals" cover reasonable and documented meals purchased while traveling.
conducting NCI business. The reimbursement of meals is included in a per diem
allowance, if applicable, and therefore would not be separately reimbursable if
receiving the allowance.

To ensure compliance with IRS regulations on meals, the following information must be
documented:

..  
• 
• 
• 

Cost
Date
Place (name and location)
Business purpose aryd nature of business-benefit derived or expected to be
derived.
•   Name, company name, and fitle of people present or other designation 

sufficient to establish business relationship to the Company. 


INCIDENI'ALS
Dry cleaning and/or laundry costs shall be reimbursed when duration of the trip is at least six
days or for emergency spiUs/situanons.
Reasonable tips in relation to services rendered will be reimbursed. A tip generally
should not exceed 18% of the total cost. The reimbursement of this cost is included in a
per diem allowance, if applicable, and therefore would not be separately reimbursable
if receiving the allowance.

 20

Reasonable costs of telephone, fox, postage, baggage handling or other incidental
expenses are reimbursable when required for business purposes.

 Navlganl COliBulttng Contract·Tabl, #I 1
High-level As_ment Wal1!, Plan
Segll1Gn\

TasK

Sll?P

leader  

Description

EstablIsh Ptc.fect Infrastructure

I?

lito  

Eslablish PtrJject Organization

1 cam

P. Dougl8$
B.Smilh
R. Kaiser

Wor~,

Days

40

EstabrlSh Steering Committee
Establish Physician Advisoty Committee
Cllftna CCHS Support ReIources

1

2
3

FinBtize Ptoject Plan

2 

Finalize Delaled Work Plan
FInalize Meeting Schedule
Finalize R8SCIUrCe Commitment· CalS and Mel
Ffnaliza ~liverables

1

2
3
4

Eltsblish Rnam:lsl Baset'IfIG

3 

Esteb!1sI\ BaseUne Psri'od
Establish 3·nsr Financial Baseline
• Cenflrm Pl8nnill9 ASSumplions

1
2

3 

Deve10p linitiate CMlDUllllcBlfoll Plan

4 

DevelGp Hllman RsSOlllCEt Plan

S 

Coml'lIite Oaf, Collectfon
Ccnduct Operations I Llbor Ptoduc6l1ity Auessmlnt

1/  

Conduct Labar P10ductivity Bam::bmetWll9

1 
1

2

..
:3

Iden1J6c:alion of approprlllle beSG p8ItDd
Gathertng data from payton and finance
• ProductivelOvertirna/NQn ProduclivelPald Houl8
• Agency and Con\nH.ll Hours
- Wark Load Unlls (Units of Service)
Grouping dapartments major mID NCI bendlmalldll9 groups
Conduct analytic review and deb ¥aIIanoas

B. Smith  
O.Teng  

G.Campbell
P. Saplenze (NUI'II!ng)
R.Sems(ED)
J. Rodas (lab)
E. Walsh (OR)

2CO

R. SlCinner (IT)

C. Hurley (Fin)
B. Troy (HR)

S. Patel (Phalli\)

CondUct Managamllrl' $pIJn of Central Ana/y8fs

2

1
2

3
.4
5

COnduct job COde relliew
DevelOp Span of Control analysis
Develop Atlmlnlstnllive Support coverage analysis
Review wrranl depat1manlal organiz.atlon charts
Develop improvement opportunMies

t-.J
,.....

 Navlgant Consulting Contract-Table # 1
High-level Assessment Wark Plan
Se';ln18nl

T"s~

Slep

D«scnp!lon

le(1dcf

Team

WOfl. D,IYS

Deploy Subject Matter E1t~rls 10 Conducl Process & 8est PIadfoa RevltJw

3
1
2

3
4

5
6

Review Benchmark resulls
Conduct inlalViews with depellment, pI'CC8S8 and medlcat leadelshfp
Provida an objectiva analysis of staffing levels and skill mix. and COII'espondfng
opemllons. practices. processes. systems and structures drilling currant performance
Recommend performance targets
Develop stalling modals for patient care areas
Defina prooess. opelatlons and oIhIIIr kay changes lequlred to achieve new perfbrmenc:a

""leta
Subject MIIIIer Explllts include:
- Patffmt CenP SeMi:es (lI'Iplltfllllt. Ped.oparalille. Em,rgency. Other)
- Ancillary Sel\liees (LBbanUory. PhIlmlIlCy. Imaging)
• Support &l1Vice.$
- Atlmlniltlalive SstviaIs (Filance. HR, 11)
Eva/uattJ HR & Worn Foa:e Managemenl Pl'Dcess & Tools

4

t
2

a

R~ HR Pay Prac:IIces
RevieYI Wa.rk Force Management Ptac:asses. S)lSt8ms and rools
DElfine Improvement Opportunlt!es
&.mumi~ I/7lprrmJment OpparlurdtlfJs

5

COJIduot SUpplyCIJa/n ~ent

111

Conduc:t Cunvnl Stale Assessment

P. Knlder

ALawleu
V. Humphrey
S.Patel
L Taylor

80

Conduct InlaNiewlll In all major sarvlce III'8IlI with a focua Dn UNCHCS' proc:assas.
oppartmltles and culture for chsrIge in II1e supply chaTn 8l11li8.

2
3
2

Conduct a rigorous analY'l1l of all purchases far the prelIious year and review PIOduclI.
M/W:es, conllacts. usage. volume, vendors and pridng. We wi anap appartunlllli1S II,
pharmacy. cllnfeaI. surgical, ncRodlnfcal and purchased services categones
Conduct a comparative analysi1l of CCHS pricing using Hel databases, experienca and
knowledge.
ldMtify spedtic Imprcvsment OppoItUI'/11ies

Identify Supply Chain Infrasbuc;;tura requlremenls
- Organlza\lon structure
- High-level PoI'lCies & Procedures
• Usa at Technology
• Sourcing & Conlrecling Slretegy

tv
tv

 Navlgant Consulting Contract·Table iii
Hlgh.....wl Asltssment Work Plan
Segment

TaSk

Step

2
3
4
5

6
IV

Desc"phon

CGnduc:t ClHlllnt Stale Assessment

3

4

5

G

Team

Work Daj'S

• Use of GPO & Direct Contracts
- Dl9lnbutlon & Logi!llic$ Oplimlzalion
• Inventory Management
Idenllfy Pridng & SOl.Irck1g Opportunities
kfentify Vander and Product Stalldardiulion Opportunities
kfantify Ub1i.mtion Opportunllies
Idantify Pharmary 340B Oppolblnlliel
,
COnduct a tligh-leval validBlion with key s1akeholdBfS fot high opportunityatEl8s

C4nduct CJ!fl/c.' Resorm.:e Managementl PaUent Throughput AS$8S$1l1ent

1
2

l",adsr

R.Kalser

C.Welmore
l. Bedard
C.Newman

100

Analyze l.ength of Slay bV Service by Sile
RevIew the Admission & Bed Menagement PtceellS9SS
• Patient Flow lind prepan:ltion from tntry I admission points

• Bed management proce5Ses - Placement, tnlnsfars. dschetge, coordination of semi·
private rooms; capacity management
• Environmenlal SeMce$ • staffing modal J sdleduling: disdlalge bed lul'l'lOVel'
ptceeues: COmll\\lNcetion I notllic:aHan system
Revi8w Case Manegament f Care Coordination PrcIc8ss8s
• The
of
Menagement snd social work and uliliul.ion revlew with respect to
caN racl!ftalilln. discharge plannIng. utilzallan menagement and clinical outcomes
- Spedfic wofldlows and struc\ures to ensurelhat dly-to-day priorities are met and that
900111s are ach[e1/8d
• UM of technology or applications to Improve afficieney and affedivaness of rete
• UselowtSight of Gbll8rva11on slalus and one day Slay menagement

lOr. casa

• USe of datil to Identify ptIoriJes and influence pn!dica behaviors; denial management
Patient Transport J Esccrt&
• Model of patient ttenllport servlces
• Automelion of patient transport and bed management
• Process. boIUttnecks and opportunities fer enhancement
Medical Staff Interface: ellaluate aptlons for improvements through:
~ physician practica pattgms that may improw throughput in BI1IlIS IIvellas telemetry.
obS8lVlllion. consulls lite.
.
• "House SIIIff coveragew I HOspitslists programs In use; role for mid-level providers. I.e••
Physician Assistants. NPtI; potential for UIiIizaUol'llmprovements by use of UnitMndieal
Direc;tonJ in monitored bed units
~ AppIicebnil.y of Case Managarnent Physlden Advisor
• Medical staff f administrative interface relative to patient low to have jalnl/common
approallhes to addressing barriers
Asaess Current PaUentAggregal.ion
• Patient COIIorting to opllmb:e slriin9 and pallent flow
• Bed avallablillty (e.g•• number of ICU. Monitored. MedlSurg badt)

N
W

 Navlgllnt Consultlng Contract-Tllblll 1# 1
High-Level Asses'ment Work Plan
Scgr:1~nt

ias~

Slep

Dcscoptlon
DevlJl(J~ Fuluf8 Slale CRM IPatienl

2
1
2

3
4
5

1

2
3

v

Team

Work Days

Thmugllput Model

PaUent Aggregation Scanelios
Admission & Bad Management Procesaaa
Case mlillagemant I Cere COORIlnaUon Proeeases
Patient Transport J Escort P1OC855eS
Medie81 Sttlff Interfac:a
QUSIlIify Impect of Future Stille CRMI

3

leacl;?,

Allient Thtoughput Model

Define length of stey Targets
DefIne Financial Impact of Adlle'ling LOS Tatgals
• Cost ReduCtion
- Revenue Enhancement
EsUm ate TIming of Benefits
Conduct Physklall Assessment

D. Daugherty
M.Bard

C. Thompson-Bodkin
T. Kely

150

Assess Cumlllt Funds Row & Gtadu81e Medical Education

2

3
4

5

6
7

.2

AnalneJquantity all soun:es of f8V8I1Uellnccme for the depaJtmanlal compensation plans
includIng:
• CllnlQai revenue, IncludIng an professl<msls
• Admlnlsll'ative and llnancialsllpport
• FIeSea1'I:h role and expense to clinical Gnlerpl'lse
- Taad'lfng A'lvenue ffllm University and errt OIher sources
- Specia~legic IIUpporI Qf any departments, and prectIces or programs
Anal~<lUanlilY rlllandal re!IlUol\ahlps between sehcol, departments. hospital. fac;ully.
clinics
Assess In\l811tivn to optimize faeulty per1armanoe
Evaluate mechanisms to define and monitor the scope and (jllifity of 5eIIIi<:es puldlaaed
from the University
AssesS$COpe of programs. educational naC8$l1lty vs. economic reality and hew suOSidy
declslons are made and monitored
Ewluate al external sources of lInds to support GME (OME/lME) as welles oIbar
sourcas ofincome (e-9. lndulllry grants, reserve acc:oun\l. foundation SUpport) to support
mission crilk:al programs ancll8late this funding to the cost of GME on tho hospital side
Develop recommendations to addre$S tha Issues discoyarad for "cb component of \he
CARTS analysis

Assess Clinic OpenJtions
Clinical practice operatlorJ$, int:on1B and expenses

tv
~

 Navtgant ConSUlting Contract·Table # 1
HlgM.ev~tI Assessment Wolf( Plan
Segm(:r.t

Tas)',

Step

DescnpllOll

e.

Physician pnxfuolMty and c;ompenS8lion. ullrlzlng comparisons to national and regional
benchmarks. including a higb-level analysis of departmental compenSlllion pllln$
Staffing wcpenses. Including number and type of sl.8lf to support, cutrent operations with
QOmpel1sons 10 benehm8lk$ of comparable high perbmlng organizations
Oil'ect end indirecl operating expenses
.
Financial performance and '«llume levels
Re¥8OUe enhancement opparIunllie.s
Pmfassicnal contradlng capabililitls
TechI1oiogy enab!ement

9

Other olqlOnS8slc:os!ll that 8ra pert of each practiQG plan such as expenses associated
will Ome spent In house slBff lellChillg and supeNi!llon of cIInlcal services and units

2

3
4
5
(\

7

L1'ad'2'l

Tellnl

INure

D;'~'s

IdefIt/Ty PhJl$Jcian OppDrtun/Ues

3

Develop Priorlf.izsd lmplemenfMlon PIli!

W

D.lila

20

B. Smith
R.l<aiser
C. TOtIQ

SUmmarize lmpmvement Opportunities

1

P. Dgugl8!l

Summarize I.8bo.r ProdIIctlvily , Operations Opportunitill!!l
Summarim Supply Chaln Opportunili&!r
SummarIH CAM f Patient Th!1:lUlIl1put Opport,unities
Sumlllllrize Physician Opportunllies
SumllllllUe SttaIegTo Opportunities
2

Dewlap High-/.avef rmp/9mellbiltion Action Pl411

.3

Devetop Realiulion Schedule

1
2

Define Realization Schedule for Opporbmitlll!!l
Incorporate Opportunities" Realization Schedule Into BaseUne FInancial Model
Present Results

WI

O.lilo

P.Oouglas

D. Surik

t:.Wflnzke

C. Tong

prepare Finlll Reporl
2'

Conduct Firla/ Steering Commllffflt Msetlflgs to ObIalfl A:ppmVfJ/

3

DetimJ Impl/HrUlntafion PI8n I RellGuIW Requimments

10

Total E$Ilmated Days

ToIai Estlmatad Hounl:

600
4800

IV 

VI 


 26

PARTn
GENERALCOND~ONS

SUPPLYISERVICE
SOLE SOURCE
CONTENTS

GC-01 SUBCONTRACI1NG OR ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT OR CONTRACT

FUNDS

3

GC-02 PERSONNEL

4

GC-031NSURANCE

4

GC-04INSPECTION AND RESPONSIBILITY

4

GC-05 INDEMNIFICATION

5

GC-06 PAYMENT

5

GC-07 PREPAID FEES

5

GC-08 TAXES

5

GC-09 PRICE REDUCTION

6

GC-IO CONTRACTOR CREDITS

6

GC¥ t1 DISPUIES

6

GC-12 DEFAULT

7

GC-13 COUN1Y REMEDIES

7

GC-14 CONTRACTOR REMEDIES

7

GC-15 DELAYS

8

GC-16 MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS

8

GC-17 PATENfS, COPYRlGI-ITS AND LICENSES

819

GC-18 COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS

9

GC-19 MINORITY AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE

9-11

GC-20 MATERIAL DATA SAFETY SHEET

II

GC-21 CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR

11

GC22 ACCIDENT REPORTS

11

GC-23 USE OF 1HE COUNTY PREMISES

12

GC-24 GENERAL NOTICE

12

GC-25 TERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT 12
GC26 GUARANTEES AND WARRANTJES

13

 27

OC-27 STANDARD OF DELIVERABLES

13

GC-28 DELIVERY

13

GC-29 QUANfITIFS

14

GC·30 CONrRACf INTERPRETATION

14

GC-31 CONFIDENTIALITY AND OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

14115

GC-32AUDlT

15

GC-33 GOVERNING LAW

16

OC-34 WAIVER

16

GC-3S ENTIRE CONTRACT

16

GC-36 FORCE MAJEURE OR UNAVOIDABLE DELAYS

17

GC-37 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS; NO THIRD PARTY
BENEFICIARIES

17

 28

GC-Ol SUBCONTRACTING OR ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACf OR CONTRACT
FUNDS
Once awarded, this Contract shall nat be subcontracted or assigned, in whole or in part. without the
advance written approval ofthe Purchasing Agen~ which approval shall be granted or withheld at
the sole discretion of the Purchasing Agent. In no case, however, shall such approval relieve the
Contractor from its obligations or change the tenns of the Contract. The Contractor shall not
transfer or assign any Contract funds or any interest therein due or to become due without the
advance written approval of the Purchasing Agent. The unauthorized subcontracting or assignment
of the Contract, in whole or in part, or the unauthorized transfer or assignment of any Contract
funds, either in whole or in part, or any interest therein, which shall be due or are to become due the
Contractor shall have no effect on the County and are null and void.
Prior to the commencement of the Contract, the Contractor shall identify in writing to the
Purchasing Agent the any and all subcontractors it intends to use in the performance of the
Contract. The Purchasing Agent shall have the right to disapprove any subcontractor.
Identification ofsubcontractors to the Purchasing Agent shall be in addition to any communications
with County offices other than the Purchasing Agent. An subcontractors shall be subject to the
terms ofthis Contract. Contractor shall incorporate into all subcontracts all ofthe provisions ofthe
Contract which affect such subcontract. Copies ofsubcontracts shall be provided to the Purchasing
Agent upon request.
The Contractor must disclose the name and business address of each subcontractor'.... attomey'\1\
lobbyist, accountant, consultant and any other person or entity whom the Contractor has retained or
expects to retain in c;.onnection with the Matter, as well as the nature of the relationshipl\, and the
total amount of the fees paid or estimated to be paid. The Contractor is not required to disclose
employees who are paid or estimated to be paid. The Contractor is not required to disclose
employees who are paid solely through the contractor's regular payroll. "Lobbyist" means any
person or entity who undertakes to influence any legislation or administrative action on behalf of
any person or entity other than 1) a not-for-profit entity'" on an unpaid basisl\. or (2), himself.
"Lobbyist II also means any person or entity any part of whose duties as an employee of another
includes undertaking to influence any legislative or administrative action. If the Contractor is
uncertain whether a disclosure is required under this Section, the Contractor must either ask the
County whether disclosure is required or make the disclosure.
The County reserves the right to prohibit any person iTom entering any County facility for any
reason. AU contractors and subcontractors ofthe Contractor shall be accountable to the Director of
the Using Department or his designee while on any County property and shan abide by aU rules and
regulations imposed by the County.
.
GC-Ol PERSONNEL
The quality, experience and availability of personneJ employed by the Contractor are of the
essence. The Contractor shall provide the County with a list ofall key personnel to be used on the
project and their designated assignment. The list shall include the qualifications of each person
named. The County may at any time request, in writing, the Contractor to remove any of the
Contractor's assigned personnel for cause and forthwith furnish to the County other acceptable
personnel within thirty (30) days' of notification. Notwithstanding the County's approval of
Contractor's personnel. the Contractor shall be fully responsible to County for aU work perfonned
pursuant to this Contract by Contractor's employees, subcontractors or others who may be retained
by the Contractor with the approval ofthe County.

 29

GC-03 IN;SURANCE

Contractor shall purchase and maintain at all times during the term of this Contract insurance
coverage which is reasonably satisfactory to the County and will satisfactorily insure the
Contractor against claims and liabilities which arise or could arise because of the perfonnance or
nonperformance of the Contract. All insurance required hereunder shall meet the requirements
of the County's Department of Risk Management and shall name the County as an additional
insured unless such designation is unavailable due to commercial practices in the insurance
industry as to a particular type of coverage. With the exception of certificates required to be
submitted with the Proposal, Contract shall deliver to the County satisfactory certificates
evidencing compliance with this insurance prOVision prior to commencing perfonnance under the
Contract Contractor shall maintain at his own expense, the folloWing insurance coverages:

I.   Commercial General Liability Insurance. including Contractual LiabiUty. no less
than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence, and Two MIllion Dollars
($2,000,000) annual aggregate, covering Personal Injury, Bodily Injury and
Property Damage.
2.   Commercial Automobile Liability insurance, including hired, owned and non­
owned vehicles. ifany, no less than One Million Dollars ($1,000.000) combined
single limit covering Bodily Injury and Property Damage.
3.   Workers' Compensation Insurance in the amount ofthe statutory maximum with

an employer's liability coverage of at least Five Hundred Thousand DoUars
($500,000).
4.   Professional Liability insurance with annualliQlits of not less than FiYe Million
Dollars ($5,000,000) in the aggregate•
. GC-04 INSPECTION AND RESPONSIBILITY
At any and at all times during the term of the Contract and at any location where the Contract is
performed, the County shall have a right to inspect any Deliverables provided by Contractor in
carrying om this Contract. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for the quality and standards of
all Deliverables furnished under this Contract. Deliverables may be rejected by the Purchasing
Agent andlor the Director of the Using Department if they materially fail to meet Contract
requirements or are provided in a manner which does not meet Contract requirements. In the
eyent of such rejection, Deliverables shall be replaced andlor re-performed by the Contractor
promptly and at no additional cost to the CountY.. Any Deliverables rejected shall be removed
within a reasonable time from the premises of the County at the entire expense of the Contractor,
after notice has been giyen by the County to the Contractor that such DeIiverables bave been
rejected.

GC-OS INDEMNIFICATION
The Contractor covenants and agrees to indemnify and save harmless the County and its
commissioners, officials, employees, agents and representatives, and their respective heirs,
successors and assigns, from and against costs, expenses, attorneys fees, losses, damages and
liabilities incurred or suffered directly or indirectly from or attributable to any third party claims
arising out of the negligent performance or nonperformance of the Contract by the Contractor, or
the acts or omissions of the officers, agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors. licensees or
invitees ofthe Contractor.

 30

GC-06 PAYMENT

An

invoices submitted by the Contractor shall be in accordance with the cost and payment
provisions contained in the Contract Documents and shall contain a detailed description of the
Deliverables for which payment is requested. All invoices shall reflect the amounts invoiced by and
the amounts paid to the Contractor as ofihe date ofthe invoice, and shall be submitted together with
a properly completed County Voucher fonn (29A). Invoices for new charges shall not include
''past due" amounts, if any, which amounts must be set forth on a separate invoice. No payments
shall be made with respect to invoices which do not include the County Voucher fonn or which
otherwise fait to comply with the requirements ofthis paragraph. Contractor shaH not be entitled
to invoice the County for any late fees or other penalties.
GC-01 PREPAID FEES

In the event this Contract is terminated by either party, for cause or otherwise, and the County has .
prepaid for any DeIiverables. Contractor shall refund to the County. on a prorated basis to the
effective date of tennination. all amounts prepaid for Deliverables not actually provided and
expenses not actually incurred as of the effective date of the termination. The refund shall be
made within fourteen (14) days ofthe effective date oftennination.
GC-oSTAXES
·Federal Excise Tax does not apply to materials purchased by the County by virtue of Exemption
Certificate No. 36-7S-0038K. Illinois Retailers' Occupation T8Xt Use Tax and Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax do not apply to deliverables. materials or services purchased by the County by
virtue of statute. The price or prices quoted herein shall include any and all other federal and/or
state, direct and/or indirect taxes which apply to this Contract. The County's State ofllIinois Sales
Tax Exemption Identification No. is E·9998-20 13-05.
GC-09 PRICE REDUCTION
If at any time after the contract award. Contractor makes a general price reduction in the price of '
any of the Deliverables. the equivalent price reduction based on similar quantities andlor
considerations shall apply to this Contract for the duration of the Contract period. For purposes of
this Section GC 09. Price Reduction, a general price reduction shall include reductions in the
effective price charged by Contractor by reason of rebates, financial incentives. discounts, value
points or other benefits with respect to the purchase ofthe DeUverables. Such price reductions shall
be effective at the same time and in the same manner as the reduction Contractor makes in the price
ofthe same type and scope as the Deliverables provided to its prospective customers generally.
w

GCIO CONTRACTOR CREDITS

To the extent the Contractor gives credits toward future purchases of goods or services. financial
incentives. discounts. value points or other benefits based on the purchase of the materials or
services provided for under this Contract, such credits belong to the County and not any specific
using department. Contractor shall reflect any such credits on its invoices and in the amounts it
invoices the County.

 31

GC~l1

DISPUTES

Any dispute arising under the Contract between the County and Contractor shall be decided by the
Purchasing Agent. The complaining party shall submit a written statement detailing the dispute and
specifYing the specific relevant Contract provision(s) to the Purchasing Agent Upon request ofthe
Purchasing Agent, the party complained against shaIl respond to the complaint in writing within
five days of such request. The Purchasing Agent will reduce his decision to writing and mail or
otherwise furnish a copy thereof to the Contractor and the Director of the Using Department. The
decision of the Purchasing Agent will be final and binding, unless either party elects to pursue
actions either at law or in equity. Dispute resolution as provided herein shall be a condition
precedent to any other action at law or in equity. However. unless a notice is issued by the
Purch~ing Agent indicating that additional time is required to review a dispute, the parties may
exercise their contractual remedies, if any, jfno decision is made within sixty (60) days following
.notification to the Purchasing Agent of a dispute. No inference shall be drawn from the absence of
a decision by the Purchasing Agent. Notwithstanding a dispute, Contractor shall continue to
discharge all its obligations. duties and responsibilities set forth in the Contract, unless such dispute
is related to the County's milure to pay Contractor as described in Exhibit B of the Contract
Documents, during any dispute resolution proceeding unless otherwise agreed to by the County in
writing.
GC-12 DEFAULT

Contractor shall be in default hereunder in the event ofa material breach by Contractor ofany term
or condition of this Contract including, but not limited to, a representation or warranty, where
Contractor .has failed to cure such breach within thirty (30) days after written notice of breach is
given to Contractor by the County, setting forth in reasonable detail the nature ofsuch breach.
.
In the event Contractor shaIl breach any material terms or conditions ofthis Contract on more than
one occasion during any twelve month period during tbe term hereof. and the County shalt have
given Contractor timely written notice of such breach with an opportunity to cure as provided
above. or in the event Contractor expresses in writing an unwillingness or inability to continue
performing the Contract in accordance with its terms, the County may, at its option, declare the
Contractor to be in default (whether or not Contractor shall have cured such breaches) and the
County shall be entitled to exercise alIllvaiiable remedies including, but not limited to, termination
ofthe Contract, without affording the Contractor further opportunity to cure such breach.
County shan be in default hereunder jfany material breach ofthe Contract by County occurs which
is not cured by the County within thirty (30) days after written notice haS been given by Contractor
to the County. setting forth the nature of such breach. In the event County is in default of the
payment terms set forth in Exhibit B of the Contract Documents, Contractor may. in its sole
discretion, tenninate this Contract without any further obligation to County or sllspend the
provision of services until payments due and owing are paid to Contractor in accordance with the
tenns ofExhibit B ofthe Contract Documents.
GC-13 COUNTY'S REMEDIES

Following notice of material breach to Contractor, the County reserves the right to withhold
payments otherwise owed to Contractor until such time as Contractor has cured the breach. If the
Contractor fails to remedy a material breach during the thirty (30) day cure period pursuant to
General Condition GC-12, Demutt, or ifContractor commits a subsequent material breach within a
twelve month period or expresses in writing an unwillingness or inability to continue performing

 32

employee thereofhas authority to make any modification or amendment to this Contract.

GC-17 PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES

Contractor shall furnish the Director of the Using Department with aU licenses required for the
County to utilize any software. including firmware or middleware, provided by Contractor as part
of the Deliverables. Such licenses shall be clearly marked with a reference to the number of this
County Contract. Contractor shall also furnish a copy of such licenses to the Purchasing Agent.
Unless otherwise stated in these Contract documents. such licenses shall be perpetual and shall not
limit the number ofpersons who may utilize the software on behalfofthe County.
Contractor agrees to hold hanDless and indemniiY the County. its officers, agents, employees and
affiliates from and defend. at its own expense (including reasonable attorneys', accountants' and
consultants' fees), any suit or proceeding brought against County based upon a claim that the
ownership andlor use of equipment, hardware and software or any part thereof provided to the
County or utilized in perfonning Contractor's services constitutes an infiingement ofany copyright
or license or any other property right.
In the event the use of any equipment, hardware or software or any part thereof is enjoined,
Contractor with all reasonable speed and due diligence shan provide or otherwise secure for
County, at the Contractor's election, one of the following: the right to continue use of the
equipment, hardware or software; an equivalent system having the Specifications as provided in
this Contract; or Contractor shall modify the system or its component parts so that they become
non-infringing while perfonning in a substantially similar manner to the original system, meeting
the requirements ofthis Contract.
GC-18 COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS

The Contractor shall observe and comply with the laws, ordinances, regulations and codes of the
Federal, State, County and other local government agencies which may in any manner affect the
performance of the Contract including, but not limited to, those County Ordinances set forth in the
Certifications attached hereto and incorporated herein. Assurance of compliance with this
requirement by the Contractor's employees, agents or subcontractors shall be the responsibility of
the Contractor.
The Contractor shan secure and pay for all federal, state and local licenses, permits and fees
required hereunder.
GC-19 MINORITY AND WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISES 

COOK COUNTY ORDINANCE DIVISION 6, SECTION 34-275 - 34-285 

L

POLICY AND GOALS

A.
It is the policy ofthe County of Cook to prevent discrimination in the award ofor
participation in County contracts and to eliminate arbitrary barriers for participation, as both prime
.and subcontractors, in such contracts by local businesses certified as Minority Business Enterprises
(MBE) and Women--owned Business Enterprises (WBE). In furtherance ofthis policy, the Cook
County Board ofCommissioners has adopted a Minority- and Women-owned Business Entruprise
Ordinance (the "Ordinance") which establishes a ''best efforts" goal ofawarding not less than thirty~
five (35%) ofthe annual total dollar amount ofprofessional and consulting service contracts and

 33

sole source agreements to certified MBEs and WBEs.
B.

A contractor may achieve the contract MBEiWBE participation goals by its status as

a MBE or WBE; by entering into a joint venture with one or more MBSs andlor WBEs; by

subcontracting a portion ofthe worle to one or more MBEs or WBHs; by entering into a Mentor­
Protege Agreement with a MBE or WBE; by the indirect participation ofMBEs or WBEs in other
aspects ofthe contractor's business; or by a combination ofthe foregoing.
C.
A contractor's failure to carry out its MBEIWBE commitments in the course of a
contractor's perfonnance shall constiMe Ii material breach ofthe contract, and if such breach is not
appropriately cured, may result in the tennination ofthe contract or such other remedy authorized
by the Ordinance as the County deems appropriate.
U.

REQUIRED SUBMl'ITALS

To be considered responsive to the requirements of the Ordinance: (a) a contractor for
professional and consulting service contracts shaD submit items A, Band C listed below; and (b) a
contractor for sole source agreements, shall submit items A and B listed below. All documentation
submitted by a contractor shall be reviewed by the Contract Compliance Administrator. Failure to
submit one of the items required in accordance with these general conditions shall be cause 10
consider the contractor's proposal non-responsive and be rejected.
A. Affumative Action Plan

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, a copy of its current internal affirmative
action plan. If contractor has no internal affirmative action plan, contractor shall submit a statement
stating why contractor has no such plan. In lieu of an internal affirmative action plan, a contractor
may submit a copy of its current Letter of Compliance for the United States Department ofLabor,
Office ofFederal Contract Compliance Programs.
B. Contractor's MBElWDE Efforts Documentation

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, supporting documentation which evidences
efforts the contractor has taken in attempting to achieve the County's llbest efforts" MBElWBE
participation goals.
C. Contrl£tor's Statement - Use ofMBEIWBE Professionals
Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, a statement which discloses how the
contractor intends to maximize the use of its MBEIWBE professionals in the course of performing
the contract.

m.

NON-COMPLIANCE

If the County of Cook determines that the contractor has failed to comply with its
contractual commitments or any portion ofthe Ordinance, it will notify the contractor of such non­
compliance and may take any and an appropriate actions as set forth within the Ordinance.

IV.

REPORTINGIRECORD-KEEPING REQUIREMENTS

 34

The contractor shall comply with the reporting and record-keeping requirements as may be
established by the Contract Compliance Administrator. Upon award of a contract, contractor is
responsible for acquiring all necessary county reporting and record~keeping forms which will be
made available in the Office ofContract Compliance.
V.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

Compliance with MBE and WBE requirements will not diminish or supplant Equal
Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights provisions as otherwise required by law as they relate to
contractor and subcontractor obligations.
GC-10 MATERIAL DATA SAFETY SHEET
Where required under the Illinois ''Toxic Substance Disclosure To Employees Act"~ Illinois
Compiled Statutes~ 2002. 820 ILCS 25511, Contractor shall submit with each delivery of
Deliverables, a Material Safety Data Sheet.
GC-21 CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR
The Contractor agrees to inform the County on a timely basis of all ofthe Contractor's interests, if

any, which are or which the Contractor reasonably believes may be incompatible with any interest
of the County. The Contractor shall take notice of and comply with the Cook County Lobbyist
Registration Ordinance (No.. 93-0-22, 6-22-93). Neither the Contractor nor any of its employees,
agents or subcontractors shall use for business or personal gain, or make other improper use of.
confidential information which is acquired in connection with the Contract. To the extent
Contractor will have access to the County's protected health information in performing its
responsibilities under this Contract, Contractor shall contact the ChiefPrivacy Officer for the Using
Department(s) and shall execute the Count)'s business associate agreement prior to performing any
responsibilities which involve access to protected health information.
GC-12 ACCIDENT REPORTS
Contractor shall provide the Purchasing Agent and the Director of the Using Department with
prompt written notification (no later than twenty-four (24) hours) of any occurrence. on County
premises or otherwise, which pertains in any way to this Contract and which results in either
bodily injury to employees or third parties or property damage. The report shall include the name
of person{s) injured, if any; name of the injured person's employer, if any; the date, time and
location of the occurrence; description of the extent of injury andlor damage; the name(s) of
witnesses; the names ofany providers known to have provided treatment for injuries sustained; and
such other infonnation as may be required by the County. The Contractor shall notify the local
police regarding any occurrence requiring an official police record. The report submitted to the
County should indicate whether the police were notified and, ifso, the number ofthe police report.
GC-13 USE OF COUNTY PREMISES AND RESOURCES
Contractor shan confer with the Director of the Using Department to ascertain fulJ knowledge ofall
rules and regulations of the County facilities relative to this Contract and shall cause all of its
employees, agents and subcontractors to comply therewith. The Contractor shall confine the
operations of its employees, agents and subcontractors on County premises to the perfonnance of
the. Contract consistent with limits indicated by laws, ordinances, permits andlor direction of the
Director ofthe Using Department and shall not encumber the premises with materials or debris. In
perfonning the Contract, the Contractor shall not cause or permit a condition that endangers the
safety of others and shall not load or pennit any part of a structure to be loaded with a weight that

 35

will endanger the safety ofthe structure or any persons.

GC-14 GENERAL NOTICE

All notices required pursuant to this Contract shall be in writing and addressed to the parties at their
respective addresses set forth below, All such notices shall be deemed duly given ifhand delivered
or if deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, registered or certified, return receipt
requested. Notice as provided herein does not waive selVice ofsummons or process.
TO THE COUNTY: 

COOK COUNTY PURCHASING AGENT 

118 North Clark Street. Room 1018 

Chicago, Illinois 60602 

(Include County Contract Number in all notices) 

and
ChiefExecutive Officer 

Cook County Health and Hospital System 

1900 W. Polk Street, Room 123 

Chicago, Illinois 606] 2 

TO THE CONTRACTOR:
At address provided on the Execution Pages or as otherwise indicated in writing to County
Purchasing Agent in a written document which, in bold fi1ce type, references the name of the
Contractor, the County Contract Number and states ''NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN
ADDRESS,"

GC-2S TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT
The County may terminate this Contract, or any portion, at any time by notice in writing from the
County to the Contractor. Unless otherwise stated in the notice, the effective date of such
termination shall be three business days after the date the notice of tennination is mailed by the
County. If the County elects to terminate the Contract in full, unless otherwise specified in the
notice of termination, the Contractor shall immediately cease perfonnance and shall promptly
tender to the County all Deliverables, whether completed or in process upon payment for all
services provided and expenses incurred under the Contract up to the date of termination. If the
County ejects to tenninate the Contract in part. unless otherwise specified in the notice of partial
tennination. the Contractor shaU immediately cease performance of those portions of the
Contract which are terminated and shall promptly tender to the County all Deliverables relating to
said portions ofthe Contract, whether compJeted or in process upon payment in full for all services
provided and expenses incurred as of the date of termination of those portions of the Contract
which are terminated. Contractor shaH refrain from inculTing any further costs with respect to
portions of the Contract which are tenninated except as specifically approved by the Purchasing
Agent.
GC-Z6 GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES
All Deliverables shall be covered by the most favorable commercial warranties and guarantees the
Contractor gives to any customer for the same or substantially similar DeliverabIes or Services. The
rights and remedies so provided shall be in addition to and shall not limit any rights afforded to

 36

County under this Contrlct. EXCEPT FOR THE GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN
THIS SECTION GC~26 CONTRACfOR AND ITS SUBCONTRACfORS DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL
WARRANTfES. WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.
To the extent Contractor provides Deliverables manufactured by another entity, Contractor shalt
transfer original product warranty and any rights to manufacturer's related services to the County
and shall submit all appropriate documentation of said transfer to the Director of the Using
Department prior to or at the time the Contractor tenders the Oeliverables:
GC-27 STANDARD OF DELIVERABLES
Except as may be expressly stated in the Special Conditions or Specifications of this Contract, only
new, originally manufactured Deliverables will be accepted by the County. The County will not
accept any Deliverables that have been refurbished, rebuilt. restored or renovated in any manner. In
addition, experimental materials will not be acceptable. Deliverables not produced by regular
production methods andlor which have not been offered for sale to the public through accepted
industry trade channels for a reasonable period of time prior to the commencement of the Contract
will be considered experimental.
GC-28 DELIVERY
All Contract Goods shipped to the County shall be shipped F.O.B., DESTINATION, FREIGHT
PREPAID. Arrangements shall be made in advance by the Contractor in order that the County may
arrange for receipt of the materials.
Truck deliveries will be accepted before 3:00 P.M. on weekdays only. No deliveries will be
accepted on Saturdays, Sundays or County Holidays. The County is not responsible for delivery
delays due to waiting times for loading and unloading at dock locations.
The quantity of Contract Goods delivered by truck will be ascertained from a weight certificate
issued by a duly licensed Public Weight-Master. In the case of delivery by rail, weight will be
ascertained from bill oflading from originating line, but the County reserves the right to re-weigh at
the nearest available railroad scale.
The County reserves the right to add new delivery locations or delete previously listed delivery
locations as required during the Contract period. The only restriction regarding the County's right
to add new delivery locations shan be that any new or additional location shall be within the
geographical boundaries ofthe County ofCook.
GC-29 QUANTITIES

Any quantities indicated in the Proposal Pages for the performance ofthe Contract are estimates for
the, purpose of determining an approximate totat Contract amount and may not be the actual
quantities required by the County during the teno of the Contract. The County reserves the right to
increase or decrease such quantities at the Contract price to correspond to the actual needs of the
County. If the County increases the quantities required, any sueh increase shall be subject to an
agreed written amendment in the Contract Amount. The County will be obligated to order and pay
for only such quantities as are from time to time ordered. delivered, and accepted on purchase
orders issued by the Purchasing Agent

 37

GC-30 CONTRACT INTERPRETATION

Whenever the singular is used herein. the masculine, feminine and neuter gender shall be deemed to
include the others. The headings of articles, paragraphs and sections in this Contract are included
for convenience only and shall not be considered by either party in construing the meaning of this
Contract. If any provision or clause of this Contract shall be held to be invalid. such provision or
clause shall be deleted from the Contract and the Contract shall be construed to give effect to the
remaining portions thereof.
This Contract shall be interpreted and construed based upon the following order of precedence of
component parts. Such order of precedence shall govern to resolve all cases of conflict, ambiguity
or inconsistency.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)

Part I; Contract for Service;
Part II, General Conditions;
Exhibit A, Scope ofWork;
Exhibit B. Payment Terms; and
Table # 1, High-level Assessment Work Plan.
EDS forms

GCw31 CONFIDENTIALITY AND OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
Contractor acknowledges and agrees that information regarding this Contract is confidential and
.shall not be disclosed. directly. indirectly or by implication, or be used by Contractor in any way,
whether during the term of this Contract or at any time thereafter, except solely as required in the
·course of Contractor's performance hereunder. Contractor shall comply with the applicable privacy
laws and regulations affecting County and will not disclose any of County's records, materials, or
other data to any third party. Contractor shall not have the right to compile and distribute statistical
analyses and reports utilizing data derived from information or data obtained from County without
the prior written approval of County. In the event such approval is given, any such reports
published and distributed by Contractor shall be furnished to County without charge.
All documents, data, studies, reports, work product or product created as a result ofthe performance
ofthe Contract (the "Documents") shall be included in the Deliverables and shall be the property of
the County ofCook except to the extent that they include generally applicable methodologies, tools,
principles and ideas used by Contractor in its business generally, such information shall remain the
property of Contractor (UContractor Property") for which Contractor grants to County the royalty­
free right to use in connection with the Deliverables. It shaU be a breach of this Contract for the
Contractor to reproduce or use any documents. data, studies, reports, work product or product
obtained from the County of Cook or any Documents created hereby other than Contractor
Property. whether such reproduction or use is for Contractor's own pUIpOSeS or for those of any
third party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Contractor shall retain copies of any Contractor
summary or report delivered to County under this Contract for its internal recordkeeping
purposes or compliance with applicable professional standards. During the performance of the
Contract Contractor shall be responsible of any loss or damage to the Documents while they are
in Contractor's possession, and any such loss or damage shall be restored at the expense of the
Contractor. The County and its designees shall be afforded full access to the Documents and the
work at all times.

 38

GC-32 AUDIT; EXAMINATION OF RECORDS

or

The Contractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor any of its duly authorized representatives
shall. until expiration ofthree (3) years after the final pa)l11lent under the Contract, have access and
the right to cKamine any books. documents, papers, canceled checks. bank statements, purveyor's
and other invoices, and records of the Contractor related to the Contract, or to Contractor's
compliance with any term, condition or provision thereof. The Contractor shall be responsible for
establishing and maintaining records sufficient to document the costs associated with performance
under the terms ofthis Contract.
The COiltractor further agrees that it shall include in all of its subcontracts hereunder a provision to
the effect that the subcontractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor or any of its duly authorized
representatives shall, until expiration ofthree (3) years after fmal payment under the subcontract,
have access and the right to examine any books, documents, papers, canceled checks, bank
statements. purveyor's and other invoices and records ofsuch subcontractor involving transacthms
relating to the subcontract, or to such subcontractor's compliance with any term, condition or
provision thereunder or under the Contract.
In the event the Contractor receives payment under the Contract, reimbursement for which is later .
disallowed by the County, the Contractor shall promptly refund any undisputed disallowed
amount to the County on reques~ or at the County's option, the County may credit the undisputed
amount disallowed from the next payment due or to become due to the Contractor under any
contract with the County.
To the extent this Contract pertains to DeliverabJes which may be reimbursable under the
Medicaid or Medicare Programs, Contractor shall retain and make available upon request, for a
period of four (4) years after furnishing services pursuant to this Agreemen4 the contract, books.
documents and records which are necessary to certifY the nature and extent of the costs of such
services if requested by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller General
of the United States or any oftheir duly authorized representatives. If Contractor carries out any
of its duties under the Agreement through 8 subcontract with a related organization involving a
value of cost of $10,000.00 or more over a 12 month period, Contractor will cause such
subcontract to contain a clause to the effect that, until the expiration of four years after the
furnishing of any service pursuant to said subcontract, the related organization will make
available upon request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller
General of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives, copies of said
subcontract and any books, documents. records and other data ofsaid related organization that
are necessary to certify the nature and extent of such costs. This paragraph relating to the 

retention and production of documents is included because of possible application of Section 

186 I (v)(I)(J) of the Social Security Act to this Agreement; if this Section should be found to be 

inapplicable, then this paragraph shan be deemed inoperative and without force and effect. 

GC-33 GOVERNING LAW

This Contract shaH be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Illinois. The
Contractor irrevocably agrees tha4 any action or proceeding in any way, manner or respect arising
out ofthe Contract, or arising ftom any dispute or controversy arising in connection with or related
to the Contract, shall be litigated only in courts within the Circuit Court of Cook County in the
City of Chicago, County of Cook, State of llIinois. and the Contractor consents and submits to the
jurisdiction thereof. In accordance with these provisions. Contractor waives any right it may have

 39

to transfer or change the venue of any litigation brought against it by the County pursuant to this
Contract.
GC-34 WAIVER

No tenn or provision of this Contract shall be deemed waived and no breach consented to unless
such waiver or consent shall be in writing and signed by the party claimed to have waived or
consented. The waiver ofany such provision shall be strictly limited to the identified provision.
GC-35 ENTIRE CONTRACT

It is expressly agreed that the provisions set forth in this Contract constitute all the understandings
and agreements between the parties. Any prior agreements, promises, negotiations, or
representations not expressly set forth in this Contract are ofno force and effect
GC-36 FORCE MAJEURE OR UNAVOIDABLE DELAYS
Neither Contractor nor County shall be liable for fililing to fulfill any obligation under this Contract
if such failure is caused by an event beyond such party's reasonable control which is not caused by
such party's fault or negligence. Such events shall be Jimited to acts of God, acts of war, fires,
ligh1i:ting, floods, epidemics, or riots.
GC-37 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS; NO TH1RD PARTY BENEFICIARIES
The Contractor and its employees, agents and subcontractors art; for all purposes arising out ofthe
Contract, independent contractors and not employees of the County. It is expressly understood and
agreed that neither the Contractor nor Contractor's employees, agents or subcontractors shaU be
entitled to any benefit to which County employees may be entitled including, but not limited to,
overtime or unemployment compensation, insurance or retirement benefIts, workers' compensation
or ocoupational disease benefits or other compensation or leave arrangements.

Nothing contained herein shal1 be deemed or construed by the parties hereto, or by any third party,
as creating the relationship or principal and agent or of partnership or of joint venturer or any
relationship between the parties hereto other than that of independent contractors. Nothing herein
shall be construed to confer upon any third parties the status ofthird party beneficiary.

END OF SEcrION

 40

ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE STATEMENT 

AND EXECUTION DOCUMENT 

INDEX 


Section

DescripUon

Pages

Instructions for Completion of EDS

EDSi-ii

1

MBElWBE Utlrtzation Plan

EDS 1,2

2

Letter of Intent

EDS3,4

3

Petition for ReductionlWaiver of MBElWBE Participation
Goals

EDS5,6

4

Certifications

EDS7.B

5

Economic and Olher Disclosure:;, Affidavit of Child Support
Obligations and Disclosure of Ownership Interest

6

Sole Proprietor Signature Page

EnS 14alblc 


7

Partnership Signature Page

EDS 151a/b1c 


B

Corporation Signature Page

EDS 16alb/c 


9

Cook County Signature Page

EDS17 


Instructions

EDS9 ·13

04.09 


 41

INSTRucnONS FOR COMPLETION OF 

ECONOMIC DJSCLOSURE STATEMENT AND EXECUTION DOCUMENT 

This Econom~ Oisclosure Statement and Execution Document ("EOS·) is to be completed and executed by every
Bidder on a County contract, evelY party responding to a Request for Pmposals or Request for Qualifications
'(Pl'CIPoser"l, and others as required by the Purchasing Agent. If the Undersigned is awarded a contract pursuant to
the procurement process for which this EOS was submitted (the ·Contract"), this Economic Disclosure Statement and
Execution Document shall stand 8$ the Undersigned's execution of the Contract.

Definitions. Capitalized terms used in this EDS and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to
such terms in the Instructions to Bidders, General Conditions, Request for Proposals, Request for Qualifications, or
other documents, as applicable.
"Affillated Entity" means a peISOn ot entity that, directly or indirectly: controls the Bidder, is
controlled by the Bidder, or is, with the Bidder, under common control of another person or entity.
Jndicia of control include, without limitation, interlocking management or ownership; identity of
interests among family members; shalBd facilities and equipment; common use of employees; and
ol'ganization of a business entity following the ineligibility of a business entity to do business with
the County under the standards set forth in the Certifications included in this EDS, using
substantially the $ame management. owneJShIp or prin!)ipals as the Ineligible entity.
"Bidder, II ·Proposer,II "Undersigned," or "Applicant," is the person or entity executing this EDS.
Upon awaRi and execution of a Contmct by the County, the Bidder. Proposer, Undersigned or
Applicant, as the case may be, shaD become the Contractor or Contracting Perty.
"Proposal," for purposes of this EOS, is the Undersigned's complete response to an RFPIRFQ, or
if no RFQlRFP was Issued by 1he County. the ·Proposal· is such other proposal. quote or offer
submitted by the Undersigned. and In any event a ·Proposal· Includes this EOS •

"Corle- means the Code of Ordinances, Cook County, Illinois available through the Cook County
Cferl<'s Office website (hHp:1Jw..vw.cookctycle!k,com/sublordlnanceusP). This page can also be
accessed by going to www.cookGJY9!er1s.GQID. cllcklng on the tab labeled ·County Board
Proceedings.· and then clicking on the link to 'Cook County Ord"mances,•
·Contractor" or "Contracting Party" means the Bidder, Proposer or Applicant with whom the
County has entered into a Contract.

"EDS" means this complete Economic Disclosure Statement snd Execution Document including
all sections listed in the Index and any attachments.
"Lobby" or "lobbying" means 10. for compensation, attempt to inlluence a County official or County
employee with respect to sny County matter.
"L.obbyist" means any person or entity who lobbies.
"ProhlbltMJ Acts" means any of the 'actions or occurrences which form lhe basis for
disqualification under the Code, or under the Certifications hereinafter set forth.

Sections 1 through 3: MBElWBE Documentation. Sections 1 and 2 must be completed in order to satisfy the
requirements of the County's MBEMIBE Ordinance, as set forth in the Contract Documents, if applicable. If the
Undersigned believes a waiver is appropriate and nec:essa1Y. Section 3, the Petition for Waiver of MBE./WBE
PartK:ipation must be completed.
Section 4: Certifications. Section 4 sets forth celIIfications that are required for contracting parties under the Code.
Executlon of this EDS constitutes a walTBnty \hat aU the statements and certifications contained, and all the faels
stated, in the Certifications are true. correct and complete as of the date (If execution.

Section 6: economic and Other Disclosures Statement Section 5 Is the County's required Economic and other
DisciosulBs Statement form. execution of this EDS constitutes a warranty that all the information provided in the EDS
is true, COlTect and complete as of the date of exewtion, and binds the Undersigned to the warranties,
mpmsentalions, agreements and acknowledgements contained therein.

04.09

EDS-r

 42

Sections 6, 7, 8: Execution Fonns. The Bidder executes this EoS, and the Contract, by completing and signing
three copies of the appropriate Signature Page. Section 6 is the form for a sole proprietor: Section 7 is the form for a
partnership or joint venture; and Section 8 is the form for a corporalion. Proper execution requlre$ THREE
ORIGINALS; therefore, the appropriate Signature Page must be filled in, three copies made, and all three copies
must be proper1y signed, notarized and submitted. The forms may be printed and completed by typing or hand writing
the Information required. The County is in the process of converting these fonns into a lonnat that may be
downloaded and completed on the users computer. Once this feature is available, those having the necessary
software may follow the instructions set forth below under the heading "Instructions for Completing PDF Forms.'
Required Updates. The information provided In this EoS Will be kept current. In the event of any change in any
information provided, including but not limited to any change which would render inaccurate or incomplete any
certification or statement made in this EOS, the Undersigned will supplement this EoB up to the time the County
takes action, by filing an amended EOS or such other documentation as is requested.
Addltlonaf Infonnatlon. The County's Govemmental Ethics and Campaign Financing Ordlnances, Impose certain
duties and obrlgatlons on persons or entities seeking County contracts, wark, business, or transactions. For further
information pfease contact the Director of Ethics at (312) 603-4304 (69 W. Washington St. Suite 3040, Chicago, IL
60602) or visit our web-site at www.cookcountygov.com and go to the Ethics Department link. The Bidder musl
comply fully with the appncable ordinances.

04.09

EDS-ii

 43

MBElWBE unLIZATION PLAN
SecHon 1
BIODERIPROPOSER HEREBY STATES thai all MBEIvV8E finns included in this Plan are certified MBEslWBEs by
at least one of the entities Ii$led in the General Conditions.

I.

BlDDERIPROPOSER MBElWBE STATUS: (check the appropriate Itne)
Bidder/Proposer Is a certified MBE or WBE linn. (If so, attach copy of appropriate LeUer
of Certification.)
BIdder/Proposer is a Joint Venture and one or more Joint Venture partnel'$ are certified
MBEs or WBEs, (If so, aRach copies of Letter(s) of Certification, a copy of Joint Venture
Agreement cleany describing the role ofthe MBElWBE fumes) and ils ol/lll'lenihip interest in
the Joint Venture and a completed Joint Venture Affidavit - available from the Office of
Conb'acl Comprl8nce.)
Bidder/Proposer is not a certified MBE Dr WBE film, nor a Joint Venture with MBElWBE
partners, but will utilize MBE and WBE filmS either Directry or Indirectly In the periolmance
of the Contract. (If 50. complete Sections II and III).

II.

Direct PartIcipation of MBElWBE Finns
MBEsJWBEs will perfonn as subcontractors/suppliers/consultants incltKfe the following:
MBEIWBE Firm:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
Add~:

____________________________________________________

E-mail: _______________________________- - - - - - - - ­

Contact Person: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Phone: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
OoJlarAmount Participation: $.____________________________
Percent Amount of Partieipation:,______~_________________<.1I.%

"'Letter of Intent attached?

Yes _ _ __

No _ _ _ __

No _ _ _ __
·Lefter of Certification sHached?
Yes _ _ __
________________________________________
MB~EH~;

Addres~

___________________________________________________

E-mal:______________________________________--------------­
Contact Person: ______________ Phone: _ _ _- - - - - - - - - -

Oollar Amount Participation:

$~

_______________________

Percent Amount of Participation: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
%
-Letter of Intent attached?

Yes _ _ ___

No _ _ _ __

·Letter of Certification attached?

Yes _ _ __

No ______

Attach additional sheets as needed.
"Where goals have not been achIeved through Direct Participation. BldderlPropOIer sharf Include
documentation outlining efforts to achieve DIrect ParUclpatlon at the time of BldlProposalsubmfssloll.

04.()9

EDS·1

 44

If.  

Indirect ParticlpatJon of MBElWBE Finns

NOTe:   This sectlon need not be completed if tJle MBElWBE goals have been met through Direct
Participation. However, Indirect Par1i.tion will only be considered after all efforts to achieve Direct

Participation have been exhausted. Only after written documentatian af Good Faith Efforts is received will
Indirect Participation be considered.
MBEslWBEs will perform as subcontractors/suppliers/consultants include the following:

MBElWBE Firm:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
~re~:

~m~:

______________________________________________________

__________________________________________­

Contact Person: _______________ Phone: _____________

Dollar Amount Partlclpalion: $._ _______________________
Percent Amount of Participation: _____________________.....:.::%
"letter oflntent atfactted?

Yes _ _ __

No _ _ _ __

"Letter of Certification attached?

Yes _ _ __

No ______

MBElWBE Firm: ____________________________
Add~:

~maH.~·

_______________________________________

______________________________________

COntact PelSan: _____-,-.________ Phone: _____________

Dollar Amount Participation: $,_______________________-;-___
Percent Amount of Participation: ____________________________---<.:<%
·lelter of Intent attached?

Yes _ _ __ 


No ______

"leHer of Certificatian aHached?

Ves _____ 


No ________

Attach aMmons! sheets as needed.
"All Letters of Intent, Letters of Certlffcatlon and documentation of Gooel Faith Efforts omitlBd from this
bldlproposal.!!!!!.!! be submltted to the Office of Contract Compliance $0 as to assure receipt by the Contract
Compliance Administrator not later than three (3) business days aftar bid opening or proposal due date.

04.09

EDS·2

 45

COOK COUNTY LETTER OF INTENT
(Section 2)
FROM MBElWBE TO PERFORM AS SUBCONTRACTOR. SUPPLIER AND/OR CONSULTANT

ContractTdle & Number: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _'--_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
From: _____~________________~~~~~----------------------(MBElWBE Film)

To: _ _ _ _ _ _~=:_:_~=_---:=_~-----------and the County of Cook
(Bidder/Proposer Firm)

The Undersigned is prepated to provide the following sesvices, supplies and project in connection with the above
named contract (the "Contract"):

Eaoh service perfonned and lor item supplied will be detailed under Description of ServicefSupply and Project with all
serviceslitems totaled under Fee/Cost to equal the full dollar amount of the Letter of Intenl All services performed
and/or supplieS prollided must be dlteetJy related to this tJpel;ifIc Cook County contnu:t and must not InClUde
any services/supplies related to any other government contract.
Description of servicelSupply!Proiec1

Fee/Cost

1.

$

0/0

2,

$

%

3.

$

%

4.

$

%

$

%

Tolal:

THE UNDERSIGNED PARl1ES AGREE that this Letter of Intent will become a binding Subcontract Agreement
condiUoned upon the Bidder/Proposer's recefpt of a signed contract from the County of Cook. The
Undersigned Parties do also certlf)' that they did not affix their signatures to this document unOI all areas
under DeSCription of ServfcelSupply and FeDiCoBt were completed.
Upon PenaHy ofpeJjury,' _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(print
name) 


the _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _{titJe) and duly authorized representalive 

of~e

_______________________________________

~[,MB~Efmn}affi~




fJlat the foregOing infonnation 1$ true and correct and Ihe services, supplies, andlor projecllndicated above will be
supplies/performed for the above indicated total dollar amount ,'--_ _ _.....,..._ _ _ which represents 1he
above indicated total pet'centage _ _ _ _% for the contract amount $l.-_________________,

_ _...II
(Signatwe of affiant)

J
(Date)

Subscribed and swam to before me ttlis _ _ _---'day of _________________, 20_

(Notary's Signature)

(Notary Seal)
04.09

EDS-3

 46

COOK COUNTY LETTER OF INTENT
FROM BIDDER OR PROPOSER TO COOK COUNTY
Upon penally of peljury, _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-i{printnams),
·the

(uris) and duly authorized

representative of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _....:.._ _ _ _ _ _ _---i(8idderPtoposerIirmJ,
affirm that the foregoing infonnalion is true and correct and Ihe SfllVioe&, supplies, and/or proJect indicated above will
be supplledfperlormed for the above indicated total dollar amount $
. which represents tile
above indicated total percentage _ _ _ _% for the contract amount $....:.._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _•
_ _-,I

(Signature of affiant)

,_

(Date)

SUbscnbed and sworn to before me this _ _ _---iday of

,20_

(Notary Seal)

(Notary's Signature)

04.09

EDS-4

 47

PETITlgN FQR WAWeR OF MBElWSE PARTICIPATION
(SECTION 3)
A. BIDDER/PROPOSER HEREBY REQUESTS:

o
D

o

FULL MBE WAIVER
FULL WBE WAIVER
REDUCTION (PARTIAL MBE and/or WBE PARTICIPATION)
_ _ _ _% of Reduc\ion for MBE Participation

_ _ _ _% of Reduction far WOE Par1icipation
B. REASON FOR FUllJREDUCTIgN WAIVER REQUEST

BidderlProposer shaD cluwk each item applicable to Its reason for a waiver request AddItionally. supporting
documentation shall be submitted with this mgU&st. If lUSh supportlop documentation cannot be submitted
witb bld/proposa!lguotafloO' suell documentation shall be submitted directly to the ()fflce of contract
Compliance no later than three (3) days frum tb! date 21 submissiQn dilt,.

o

1) lack of sufficient qualified uses ancl/or WBEs capable of providing the goods or services
required by the contract (please explain)

D

2) 1I1e specifications and necessary requirements for performing the Contraet make it impossible or
economically infeasible to divide the Contract to 8rtable the contractor to utilize uses andlor
WBEs in accordance with the applicable participation (please explain)

o
D

3) price(s) quoted by potential MBEs andlor WBEs are above competitive levels and increase cost of
doing business and would make acceptance of such USE andlor WBE bid economically impracticable.
taking into consideration the percentage oftolal contract price represented by such UBE amYorWBE bid
(please explain)
4) Ulere are other relevant factors making it impossible or economically infeasible to utilize MBE
and/or WSE finns (please explain)

04.09

EDS-5

 48

C. gOOD FA[H EFFORTS TO OBTAIN MBElWBE PAlmCIPA110N

BidderlProposer shall check each Item applicable to its reaeoo for a waiver requesL Additionally. supporting

doFu!llt!!tation shall be submitted with this request. If such supporting documentatIon cannot be submitted
with bid/proposal/quotation. such documentation shall be SUbmmed directly to the OffIce of Contract
Compliance no later than U",! {3} days from the date pf IYlimlslion date.

D

1) Made timely written solicitalion to identified MBEs and WBEs for utilization of goods and/or services; and
provided MBEs and WBEs with a timely opportunity to review and obtain relevant speciftcallons. terms and
conditions of tile proposal to enable MBlEs and WBEs to prepare an informed response to sorlCitation
(please attach)

D

2) Followed up initial solicitation of MBEs and WBEs to determine If firms are interested in doing business
(please attacb)

D

3) Advertised in a timely manner In one or more daily newspapers and/or trade pubtieation for MBEs and
WBEs for supply of goods and services (please attach)

D

4} Use the services and assistance of the Office of Contract Compliance Staff (pleas! explain)

5) Engaged MBEs & WBEs for indirect partidpation (please explain)

D. OTHER RELEVANT INFORMATION

Attach any other documentation relative to Good Fafth Effol1s in complying wilh MBElWBE partiCipation.

04.09

EDS-6

 49

CERnFICA110NS
(SECTION 4)
THE FOLlOWING CERTIFICATIONS ARE MADE PURSUANT TO STATE LAW AND THE CODE. THE UNDERSIGNED IS
CAUTIONED TO CAREFULLY READ THESE CERTIFICATIONS PRIOR TO SIGNING THE SIGNATURE PAGE. SIGNING
THE SIGNATURE PAGE SHAll CONSTITUTE A WARRANTY BY THE UNDERSIGNED THAT ALL THE STATEMENTS,
CERTIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION SET FORTH WITHIN THESE CERTIFlCA110NS ARE TRUE, COMPLETE AND
CORRECT AS OF THE DATE THE SIGNATURE PAGE IS SIGNED.
THE UNDERSIGNED IS NOTIFIED THAT IF THE
COUNTY LEARNS THAT ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CERTIFICATIONS WERE FALSELY MADE, THAT ANY CONTRACT
ENTERED INTO WITH THE UNDERSIGNED SHALL BE SUBJECT TO TERMINATION.
A.

PERSONS AND EN11TIES SUBJECT TO DISQUALtFICA110N

No person or business enlily shall be awarded a contract or sub-contract. for a period of five (5) years from the dale of
conviction OJ' entry of a plea Dr admission of guilt, civil or criminal, if thai person or business entity:
1)   Has been convicted of an act committed. wittOO the State of Illinois. of bribery or attempting to bribe an offICer
or employee of a unit of state, federal or local govemmenl or school district in the State of Illinois in that
officer's or employee's official capacity;
2}   Has been convicted by federal. state or local government of an act of bld-rigglng or attempting to rig bids as
defined in the Shelman Anti~Trust Act and Clayton Ad. Ad. 15 U.S.C. Section 1 et seq.:
3}   Has been convicted of bid-rigging or attempting to rig bids under the laws of federal, state or local government;
4)   Has been convicted of an act committed, within the State, of price-fixing or attempting to fix prices as defined
by the Sherman Anti~Trust Act and the Clayton Act. 1"5 U.S.C. Section 1, et seq.;
5}   Has been convicted of price-fixing or attempting to fix prices under the laws the state;
6)   Has been c:onvicted of defrauding or attempting
cflStnct within the State of lDinois;

to defraud any unit of state

OJ' local government or school

7)   Has made an admission of guilt of such conduct as set forth in subsections (1) through (6) above which
admission Is a matter of reconl. whether or nol such person or business entity was subject to prosecution for
the offense or offenses admitted to; or

8}   Has entered a plea of nolo contendere to charge of bribery, price-fixing, bid~ngging, or fraud, as set forth in
sub-paragraphs (1) through (6) above.

In \he case of bribery Dr attempting.to bribe. a business entity may not be awarded a contract if an Official. agent or
employee of SlSch business entity committed the Prohibited Act on behalf of the business entity and pursuant to the
direction or autholizatlon of an officer, director or other responslble official of the business entity. and such Prohbited
Act OCCUlTed within three years prior to the award of the contract. In addition, a business entity shall be disqualified if an
owner. partner or shal8holder controlfing. directly or indirectly. 20 % or more of the business entity. or an officer of the
busines!! entily has perfOlmed any Prohibited Act within five yealS prior to the award of the Contract.
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT: The UndersIgned has read the provisions of Section A, Persons
and Entities Subject to Disqualification. that the Undersigned has not committed any ProJIlblted Act set forth in Section
A, and that award of Ihe Connot to the Undersigned would not violate the provisions of such Section or of the Code.
8.

BID-RIGGING OR BID ROTATING

THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT: In aCCO«lance with 720 'LeS 003 E-11, nsither the Undsrsigned
nor any Amliated EnrJty Is barred from awam of
Contract as a result of a conviction for the viofation of State laws
prohibiting bid-Tigging or bid rotating.
"

thii

04.09

EOS·7

 50

C.  

DRUG FREE WORKPLACE ACT

THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CER71FIES THAT: The Undersigned will provide a dtug he ·w'C.llkpla!::e. as required by
Public. Ad 86-1459 (30 ILCS 580/2-11).

D.  

DELINQUENCY IN PAYMENT OF TAXES

THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT: The Undersigned is not an owmrJf or a patty tBsponsible for the
payment of any lax or fes adminl$lered by COOk County, by alacal municipality. or by the Illinois Department orRevsnu8,
which such tax or fee /s delinquenl, such as bar award of a contract or subcontract prmJUanl to the COda, Chapter 34,
Section 34-129.
E.  

HUMAN RIGHTS ORDINANCE

rcounly',

No person 'i'Alo is a pal1¥ to a contract with Cook County
shall engage in unlawful diScrimination or sexual
harassment against any individual in the terms or conditions of employment. ctetflt. public accommodations, housing. or
provision of County facilities, services or programs (Code Chapter 42, Seetian 42-30 at seq).

F.  

ILLINOIS HUMAN RIGHTS ACT
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CER71FIES THAT: It is in comp6al1Ce with the the IHinois Human Rfghts Act (175ILCS
512-105), and agrees to abide by the requirements of /he Act 8S part oflis con/roc/uslobligations.

G.  

MACBRIDE PRINCIPLES, CODE CHAPTER 34, SECTION 34-132

If the primary contractor currently conducts business operations in Northern Ireland, or will conduct business during the
projected duration of a County oontract, the prinwy contractor shall make all reasonable and good faith efforts to conduct
any &Udl business operations in Northern Ireland in accordance with the MacBride Principles for Northem Ireland as

defined in Illinois Public Ad 85-1390.

H.  

LIVING WAGE ORDINANCE PREFERENCE (COOK COUNTY CODE, CHAPTER 34, SECTION 34-127;
The Code requillis that a living wage must be paid to individuals employed by II ConfJactor which has a County Conbelct
and by all subcontractom of such Contractor under a County Contract, throughout the dUI1IUon of such County Contract.
The amount of stich living wage is detennined from lime to time by. and is availabfe from, the Chief Financial Officer of the
County.
For purposes of this EDS Section 4, H. "Contract" means any written agreement whereby the County is committed to or
does expend funds in connection with the aglliement or subcontract thereof. The term "contract" as used In this EDS.
Sadion 4, I. specifically excludes contracts with the follDIMng:
1)  

Not-For Profit Organizations (delined as a corporation having tax exempt stalus underSection 501(C)(3) of the
United State Intemal Revenue Code and recognized under the Ilrmis State not-for -profit law);

2}  

Community Development Block Grants;

3)  

President's Office of Employment Training;

4)  

Sherifl'sWomAltemative Program; and

5)  

Department of Correction inmates.

04.09
COS-8

 51

REQUIRED DISCLOSURES
eSECTIONS)
1.

DISCLOSURE OF LOBBYIST CONTACTS

List all pemons or entities that have made lobbYing contacts on your behalf with respect to this contract
Name

2.

Address

LOCAL BUSINESS PREFERENCE DISCLOSURE; CODE, CHAPTER 34, SECTION 34-151(p);

"Local Business" shall mean a person authorized to transact business in this State and having a bona fide establishmenl for
transacting business located within Cook County at which it was actuallv transacting business on the data when any competitive
sOffcitatian for a public c:ontract is first advertised or announoed and further which employs the majority of its regular, full lime wolK
fon:e within Cook County, including a foreign corporation duly authorized to transact business in this Stale and which has a bona fide
establishment for transacting business located within Cook County at which it was actually transacting business on the date when
any competitive solicitation for a public contract is first advertised or announced and furtherwhich employs the majority of its regular,
full time wolK force within Cook County.
a)

Is Bidder a "t.ocaJ Business" as defined above?

Yes:_________ No:_ _ _ _ _ __
b)

If yes, ~st business address{es) within Cook County:

c)

Does Bidder employ the majority of Its regularful-tlme wolKforce wIlhIn Cook CoUnty?

Yes.:_______ No:._ _ _ _ _ __
3.

THE CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT ORDINANCE (PREFERENCE (CODE. CHAPTER 34. SEC'nON 3403G6)

Every Applicanl for a County Privilege shall be in full compliance with any child support order before such Applcant Is entitled to
receive or renew a County Privllege. V\lhen delinquent child suPport exis1s, the County shal no! issue or renew any County
Privilege, and may revoke any County Privilege. All Applicants are required to review the Cook County Affidavit of Child Support
Obligations attached to this EDS and complete the follo\"oing. based upon the definitions and other information included in such
Affidavit
Appficant has no ·Substantial Owner.·
OR

The Cook County Affidavit of Child Support Obrrgations has been completed by ai-Substantial Owners- and is
attached to this EDS.

04.09

EDS-9

 52

4.

REAl. ESTATE OWNERSHIP DISCLOSURES. 


The Undan>igned must indicate by checking the appropriate provision below and providing aM required Infonnation that either: 


a)  

The fgUowing is a complete list of all real estate owned by the Undersigned in Cook County:
PERMANENT INDEX NUMBER(S): _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

(ATTACH SHEET IF NECESSARY TO LIST ADDITIONAl-INDEX
NUMBERS)
OR:

b)_ _The Undersigned owns no teal estate in Cook County.
6. EXcePTIONS TO CERTIFICATIONS OR DISCLOSURES.
If the Undersigned ill unable to certify to any of the Certific:atlons or any other statements contained In this EDS and not explained
elsewhere In this EDS. the UndelSigned must explain below:

If the leiters, aNA·, the \NOrd "None" or "No Response" appears above, or if the space Is left blank, it 1M11 be conclusively presumed
1hat the Undersigned certified to all Certifications and other statements contained in this EDS,

04.09

cDS- 10

 53

COOK COUNTY AFFIDAVIT OF CHILD SUPPORT OBLIGATIONS 

Effective July 1. 1998. every applicant for a County Privilege shall be in full compliance with any Child Support Order before sud!
applicant is entitled to receive a County Privilege. When Delinquent Child Support Exists, the County shaD not issue or renew any
County Privilege, and may rBVQke any County Privilege. .

awners,

"Applicanf' means any person or business entity, including all Substantial
seeking issuance of a COUnty Privilege or
renewal of an existing County Privilege from the County. This term shan not include any political subdivision of the federal or state
govemmen~ induding units of local government, and not-forllrofit OJganizations:

"County Privilege" means any business license, including but not limited to liquor dealers' licenses. packaged goods licenses,
tavem licenses, restaurant licenses, and gun licenseS; real property license or lease; pennit. incluc:ling but not limited to bui!amg
permits, zoning permits or approvals; environmental certificate; ColInty HOME Loan. and contracts exceeding the value of
$10,000.00.
"SUbstantial Ownsr' means any person or persons who own or hold a twenty..five\ percent (25%) or more percentage of interesl
in any business entity seeking a County Privilege. induding those shareholders. general or linlted parlners, beneficiaries and
principals; excepl where a business entity 1$ an individual or sole proprietorship, Substanlial Owner means that incfwidual or sole
proprietor.
All ApplioanlsfSubstantlal Owners are IlIquired to complete this affidavit and comply with the Child Support Enforcement
Oldinance before any privRege is granted. Signature of this fonn constitutes a certification the information provide<! below is
correct and complete, and that the lndlvldual(s) signing this form haslhave personal kllowledge of such infonnatian.
Privilege Information: 

County Privilege: 

County Department: 


Applicant Information:
Last name:  

MI: _ _ __

First Name:

SS# (Last Four Digits): _ 

SlreetAddress: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 


Zip:,_ _ __

State: 


City:

Home Phone:

L-> __ -__

Drivers License No:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 


ChIld Support Obligation Information:
The Undersigned applicant, being duly sworn on oath or affirmation hereby states that to the besl of my knowledge (place an aX'
next to 'A", "B", ·C". or·O").
A.   The Applicant has no Judicially or administratively oJdered thUd support obligations.

B.   The Applicant has an outstanding judicially or adminl$lfatively ordered obligatiOn, bulls paying in
accordance with the terms of the order.
C.   The Applicant is dellnquenlln paying judicially or admlnlstrallvely ordered child support obfigations
D.   The Applicant is nof a substantial owner as defined above.
The Undersigned applicant understands that failure to disclose any judicially or administratively ordered child support debt owed

wi. be grounds for revoking the privilege.

Date: _ _ _ _ _ _ __

Signature:

Subscr:lbed and swom to before me this _____ dayof _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _...... 20,_ _ _ __
x~----

__________________

Notary Public Signature  

Notary Seal

04.09

EDS-11

 54

COOK COUNTY DJSCLOSURE OF OWNERSHIP INTEREST STATEMENT 

The Cook County Code of OI'dinaooes (12.(110 It seq.) requires that any Applicant for any County Action must disclose information
concerning ownersllll interests in 1he Applicant. This Disclosure of OwnefShip Interest Statement must be complete<! with all
infolTJlafion current as of the date this Statement Is signed. Furthermore, this Statement must be kept current. by filing an amended
Statement, until such time as Ihe County Board or County Agency shall take adlon on the application. The information contained in
this statement will be maintained in a database and made availabfe for public viewing.
If you are asked to rlSt names, but there are no applicable names to list, you must state NONE. An incomplete Statement will be
returned IiInd any adlOR regarding Ihis contract wiD be delayed. A failure to fully comply with 1he ordinance may result in the action
taken by 1he County Board or County Agency being voided.
"Appiir:anr means any Entity or person making an application to the County for any County Adlon.

·County Action" means any action by a COunty Agency, a County Department, or (he County Board regarding an ordinance or
ordinance amendment. a County Boam approval. or other County agency approval. with respect to contracls, leases, or sale or
purcha~ of real estate.
"Entity" or .l.ega/ Entity" means a sole proprietorship, corporation. partnership. association, business trust, estate, two or more
persons having a joint or common interest, tnrslee of a land trust, other commercial or Jegal entity or any beneficiary or beneficiaries
thereof.

This Disclosure of OwnefShip Interesl Slatemenl must be submitted by :
1. An Applicant for County Action and
2. An individual or Legal Entity that holds stock or a beneficial interest in the Appftcant!!!Q is listed on the Applicanfs Stalel}lent (8
"HOlder") must file a Statement and complete #1 only under Ownership Interest DeclaraOon.
Please print or type responses clearly and legibly. Add additional pages if neede<!, being careful to Identify each portion of the form to
'Which each additional page refers.

] StocklBeneficiallnterest Holder

This Statement is being made by the (

] Applicant

or

This Statement Js an:

] Original statement or

) Amended Statement

IdenUfying Information:

Name

DlB/A:._ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

StroetAddr~s;.

EIN NO.:._----­

_____________________________________________

City:._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

State:._ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

z~cOO~.

__-------­

Phone No.:.________________

Fonn Qf Legal Entity: 


I ]

Sole Proprietor

r]

Partnership

r1

Corporalion

[ ]

Trustee of Lend Trust 


[ J

Business Trust

{J

EstElte

[ ]

Association

( J

Jofnt Venture 


[ 1

Other (describe) 


04.09

EDS-12

 55

OWnershIp Interest Declaration:

1.  

List the name(s), address, and percent ownership of each individual and each Entity having a legal or beneficial interest
(including ownership) of mOle than live percent (5%) In the Applicant/Holder.

Name

Percentage Interest in
AppIicantlHolder

Address  

If the interest of any individual or any Entity listed In (1) above Is held as an agent or agents. or a nominee or nominees.
list the name and address of the principal an whose behalf the Interest is hefd.

2.  

Name of Agent/Nominee

3.  

Name of Principal

Principal's Address

) No

lYes

Is 1he Applicant constructively controned by another person Ot Legal Snlily?

If yes, state the name, address and percentage of benefICial interest of such person or legal entity. and the reletionshlp
under which such control is being or may be exercised.
Name  

Percentage of
Beneficiallnteresf

RelationshIp

Declaration (check the applicable box):

[J   I stale under oafh that the App&cant has withheld no disclosure as to ownership Interest in the Applicant nor eserved
any infonnation. data or plan as to the intended use or purpose for which the Applicant seeks County Board or other
County Agency acIion.

I ) 

I state under oalh that the Hokler has wilhheJd no disclosure as to ownership interest nor reserved any Information
requited to be disclosed.

Name of Authorized Applicant/Holder Representative (please print or type)

Tdle

Signature  

Date

E-mail address

Phone Number

Subscribed to and swam before me
day of _ _• 20_.

My commission expires:

this

x~

_______

~~~~~~

____________
NotacySeal

Notary Public Signature

04.09

EDS-13

 56

SIGNATURE BY A SOLE PROPRIETOR
(SECTION 6)

The Undersigned hereby certifies and warrants: that all of the statements, certifications and representations set forth in this EOS are
true. complete and COI'l'eeI; that the Undersigned is in full compliance and will continue to be in compliance throughout the tenn of
the Contract or County Privilege issued to the Undersigned With aU the policies and requirements set forth In thIs EDS; and that aK
facts and information provided by the Undersigned in this EOS are true, complete and correct. The Undersigned agrees to infollTl the
Purchasing Agent in writing if any of such statements, certifications. representations, facts or infonnalion becomes or is found to be
untrue, il\OOmplete or incorrect during the tellTl of the Contract or County Privilege.
BUSINESSNAME:,______________________________________________________- - - ­
BUSINESSADORESS:,_____________________________________________

BUSINESS TElEPHONE:'--_______________ FAX NUMBER:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
F9WSSN:_________________________________________- - - - - - - - - - - - ­
COOK COUNTY BUSINESS REGISTRATION NUMBER:;_________________________- - - - ­

SOLE PROPRIETOR'SSIGNATURE: _______________________________---­

pRINT NAME: 

DATE: 


Subscribed to and SW'Om before me this

_ - -____ day of ____________, 20_.
My commission expires:

x.________________________
Notary Public Signature

Notary Seal

04.09

EDS-14a

 57

SIGNA!VBE By A SOLE PRQPRI5IOR
(SECTIONS)
The Undersigned henIDy cerIllies and warranls: that all of the statements, certifications and representations set forth in this EDS are
true, complete and coned; that the Undersigned is in full compliance and will continue to be in compliance throughout the term of
the Contract or Coonty PriVilege issued to the Undersigned with al the poRcles and ~uiremenls set forth In this EOS; and that all
fads and infollTlation provided by the Undemigned in this EDS are true, complete and!.lOrleCl The Undersigned agrees to infolTll the
Purehasing Agent in writing if 8ny of such statements, certifications, representations, facts or information becomes or is found to be
untrue, inoomplete or incorrect during the term of the Contract or County Privilege.
BUSINESSNAME:.___________________________________________________- - ­
BUSINESSADORESS:;_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

BUSINESS TElEPHONE:._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FAX NUMBeR:,_____- - - - - - - - ­
F8MSSN:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____
COOK COUNTY BUSINESS REGISTRATION NUMBER:;_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - - - - - - - - - ­

, SOLE PROPRIETOR'S SIGNAllJRE: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - - ­

PRINT NAME:
DATE:

SUbscribed to and sworn befnre me this

_ _ _ _ _ dayof _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _"20__

My commission expites:
x~

______________________________
Notary Seal

Notary PubliC Signature

04.09

EDS·14b

 58

SlGtfAJlIRE BY A SOLE PROPR!§!9R
(SECTION 6)

The Undersigned hereby celtifies and warrants: \hat all of the statements, certifications and representations set forth In this EDS are
true, complete and conect; that ttle Undersigned is In full compliance and v.ill continue to be in compliance throughout the term of
the Contrad or County Privilege Issued to the UndeBigned With an the pDftcles and requrements set forth in this EDS; and that aK
fads and information provided by the Undersigned in this EDS are tl1.lEl, complete and correct. The Undersigned agrees to inform the
Purchasing Agent in writing if any of such statements, certifications, representations, facts 01 infonnallon becomes or is found to be
untrue,lncomplete or incorrect during the term of the Contrad or County Privilege.
BUSINESSNAME:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-:--_ __

BUSINESSADDRES&.______________________________- - - - - - ­

BUSINESS TElEPHONE:'--_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FAX NUMBER:._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
FEI~N:~

____________________________________________

COOK COUNTY BUSINESS REGISTRATION NUMBER::....-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
SOLE PROPRIETOR'S SIGNATURE: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

PRINT NAME:
DATE:

Subsaibed to and sworn before me this

_ _ _ _ _ _ dayof _________--'.20_.

My commission expires:
x~_----

__________

Notary Public Signature

Notary Seal

04.09

EDS-14c

 59

StGNADJBs BY A PABTNEBSHP (AND/OR A JOINT VENTURE)
(SECTION 7)

The Undersigned hereby certifies and wamlnts: that all olthe statements, c:ertificalior)S, and representations set forth in this EOS are
true, complete and correct; that the Undersigned is in full compliance and
continue to be in comp[rance throughout the term of
the Conlract or County Privilege issued to the Undersigned with all the policies and requirements set folth In this EDS: and that all of
the facts and information provided by ti1e Undersigned in this EOS are true, complete and correct. The Undersigned agrees to inform
the Purchasing Agent in wlfling If any of such statements. certificalions. represenlalions. facts or information becomes or Is found to
be untrue, incomplete or incorrect during the term of the Contract or County Privilege. •

wi.

BUSINESS NAME:'--_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - ­
_____________________________________________---------­

BU~NESSADDRESS:,

BUSINESS TELEPHONE:_______________ FAX NUMBER:___________- - - - - - ­
CONTACT PERSON:_______________ FElNlSSN:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - - - ­
·COOK COUNTY BUSINESS REGISTRATION NUMBER:___________________________

SIGNATURE OF PARTNER AUTHORIZED TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS ON BEHALF OF PARTNERSHIP:

"BY: __________________________________________________________--------_______________________________________________________________________

Dat~

Subscribed to and sworn before me this

________ day of _ _ _ _ _ _ _---', 20_,
My commission expires:
x~

_____________________________
NolarySeal

NOtary Public Signature  

* 

Attach hereto a par1nenihlp resolution or other document autholizlng the Individual signing this Signature Page

to so sign on behalf of lie Partnership.

04.09
EDS-15a

 60

SIGNATURE BY A PARTNERSHIP (ANDIOR A JOINT VENruRE)
(SECnoN7)

The UndelSlgned hereby certifies and wanants: that all of the sla1emenls, certifications, and representations set forth in this EDS are
true, complete and correct; that the UndelSigned is in fun t.»mp!iance and will t.»ntinue to be ill compliance throughout the term of
the Contract or County Privilege issued to the Undersigned IIrith sl the policies and reqUlremenCs set forth in this EDS; and that all of
the facts and information provided by the Undersigned in this EDS are true, t.»mplete and correct. The Undersigned agrees to Inform
the Purcbasing Agent in writing If any of such statements, certifications, Il!Ipresentalions. fads or lnfonnation becomes Dr is found to
be untrue, incompfete or Incorrect during the tenn of the Contract or CDUllty Privilege. .
BUSINESSNAME:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- ­
BUSINESS AOORESS:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

BUSINESS TELEPHONE:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FAX NUMBER:__________- - - - ­
CONTACTPERSON:'-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FEIN/SSN:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - - ­
·COOK COUNTY BUSINESS REGISTRATION NUMBER:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

SIGNATURE OF PARTNER AUlliORIZED TO EXECUTE CONTRACTS ON BEHALF OF PARTNERSHIP:

eBY: ____________________________

~

___________________- - - - - - - - - - ­

Date:--'-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _---------------------

Subsctibed to and sworn before me this
_ _ _ _ _ dayof ________________', 2o_.

~

x

My commission expires;

________________
Notary Public Signature

.

NolaI)' Seal

Attach hereto a partnership ~solutlon or other document authorizing the Individual signing this Signature Page
to so Sign on behalf of the Partnership.

04.09

 61

SIGNATURE BY A PARTNERSHIP <AND/OR AJOIll!!VENTUREI
(SECTION 7)
The Undersigned hereby certifies and warrants; that aU ofthe statements, certifications. and representations sel forth In this EDS are
true. complete and coJTeCt; that the Undersigned Is in full compliance and will conUnue to be in comprlBncethroughaut the term of
the Contract or County Privilege issued to the Undemigned with all the poIides and requirements set forth in this EOS; and that all of
the facts and information plUvided by !he Undersgned In this EDS are true, complete and correct. The Undersigned agrees to infonn
the Purchasing Agent in wriling if any of such statements, certifications. representatlans. facts or infonnation becomes or is found to
be unlnle, incomplete or Incorrect during the tenn of the Contract or County Privilege, •
BUSINESSNAME:;_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
BUSINESSADDRES~.~

______________________________________________

BUSINESS TElEPHONE:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FAX NUMBER:,_ _ _- - - - - - - - - -

CONTACTPERSOftc....-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FElNJSSN:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
·COOKCOUNTY BUSINESS REGISTRATION NUMBER:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - ­

SIGNATURE OF PARTNER AUTHORtzED TO EXECUlE CONTRACTS ON BEHAI.F OF PARTNERSHIP:
·B~

______________________________________
___________________________________________________________-----------­

Dat~

Subscribed to and swom before me this

___________

d~m

________________

__.

~.20

My commission expites:
x~

________________________
Notary Pubfic Signature  

,.  

Notary Seal

Attach henlto a parlnelShJp resolution or other document authorizIng the Individual slsnlng this Signalure Page.
to so sIgn on behalf of the Partnerahlp.

04.09
EDS-15c

 62

SIGNATURE BY A CQRPOBATION
(SECTION 8)
The Undersigned hereby certifies and warrants; that all of the !!atemanls, certifications, and represenla1ions set forth in this fOS are
true. complete and correct; that the Undersigned is in fuB campfianca and wiD continue to be in compliance throughcul the term of
the Conlract or County Privilege Issued to the UndelSigned v.1th all the poI'lCies and requirements set forth in this EDS; and that all of
the facts and infOnnation provided by !he UndllSlgned in this EDS are true, complete and COITEICl The undersigned IIgteeS to inform
the Purchasing Agent in wrIIing if any of such statements, certilications, AlpteSeIltalians, facts or infOrmation becomes or is found to
be untrue, Incomplete or incorrect during !he term of the Conbact or County Privilege.
____________________________________________----------____

BUSINESSNAM~.

BUSINESS AODRESS:,__________________________- - - - - - ­

BUS1NESSTELEPHONE:________________ FAX NUMBER:_____________________
CONTACTPSRSON:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____
FEIN:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -JLCORPORATE FILE NUMBER:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

LIST THE FOLLOWING COBPORATE OFFICERS:
PRESlDENT:______________
SECRETARY:~

________________

VICE PRESIDENT:~______________- - - - ­
TREASURER::_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - - ­

"'SIGNATURE OFPRESIDENT: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- - - ­
ATTEST: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _---i(CORPORATESECRETARY)

Subscribed and sworn to befDAI me this
_________ day of ______--', 20__

My commission expires:

x,_______________________________
Notary Public Signature  

. 

Notary Seal

If the corporation Is not regIstered In the State of illinoIs, a copy of the Certificate of Good Slandlng from the slam
of Incorporation must be submItted with this Signature Page.

In tIut event that this Signature Page Is signed by any pel'8ons than the President and Secretary, attach either a
certffled copy of the corporate by-laws, resolution or other authorization by the corporation, authorizing such
persons to SIgn the Signature Page on behalf ofthe corporation.

04.09
EOS-16a

 63

SIGNATURE BY ACORPORATION
(SECnON8)

The Undersigned hereby certifies and warrants: that all ofthe statements, cediIicatIons, and representations set forth in thIs EDS are
true, complete and 0CIt"leCt; that the Undersigned is in ruu compliance and will continue to be in compliance throughout the tarm of
the Contract or County Privilege issued to the Undersigned with aU the policies and requirements set fosfh In this EOS; and that all of
the facts and information provided by the Undersigned in this EDS are true, complete and correct The Undersigned agrees 10 inform
the PutChasing Agent in Wliling if any of such stalemenls. certifications, Rlpresentatlons, facts or infonnatlon becomes or is found to
be untrue, incomplete or incorrect during the term of tha Contract Dr County Privilege.
BUSINESSNAME:,____________________________________________________________
BUSINESSADDRESS:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

BUSINESS TElEPHONf:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FAX NUMBER:'---___________________

CONTACTPERSON:,______________________________________
FEIN:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ "'ILCORPDRATE FILE NUMBER:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

LIST THE FOLLOVIJlNG CORPORATE OFFICERS; 

PRESIDENT:,__________________

VICE PRESIDENT:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-

__ 


SECruITARY:,_______________

TREASURER:,________________- - - - - ­

-SIGNATURE OF PRESIDENT: _______________________________ 

AnEST: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-'(CORPORATE SECRETARy)

Subscribed and swom to before nne this
_ _ _ _ _ _ dayof _______-', 20_,

My commission expires:

x._______________________________
Notary Public Signature  

* 

-

Notary Seal

If the corporation Is not registered In the State of UilnoiB, a copy of the Certificate of Good Standing from the state
oflncorpora80n must be submitted with this Signature Page.
In the event that this SIgnature Page Is Signed by any persons than the PresIdent and Secretary. attach either a
certrf'led copy of the corporate by-laws, resolution or other authorization by the corporation, authorizing such
persons to sign the SIgnature Page on behalf of the corporaUon.

04.09

EDS-16b

 64

SIGNATIlRE BV" CORPORATION
(SECTION 8)

The Undersigned hereby certifies and warrants: that all ofthe stalements, certifications, and representations set forth in this EDS are
true, complete and col'1'8d; that the Undersigned Is in full compliance and will continue to be in compliance throughout the term of
the Contract or County Privilege issued to 1he Undelliigned wlth 81 the polides and requiJements set forth In this EOS; and that al of
the facI.s and informaUon provided by the Undersigned in this EDS an! true, complete and correct. The Undersigned agrees to inform
the Purchasing Agent in writing if any of such statements, certifications. representations, facts or infonnalloo becomes or Is round to
be untrue, incomplete or InCOfTect during the term of the Contract or County Privilege.
BUSINESSNAME:._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
BUSINESSADDRESS:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

BUSINESSTELEPHONE:,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FAX NUMBER:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 

CONTACTPERSON;,____________________________________________ 

FEIN:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -IL CORPORATE FILE NUMBER:._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 


LIST THE FOLLOWING CORPORATE OFFICERS:
PRESIDENT:._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

VICEPRESIDENT:;_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

SECRETARY:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

TREASllRER;;_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

"*SIGNATURE OF PRESIDENT: _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
ATTEST: _~_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(CORPORATESECRETARV)

Subscribed and swom to belQre me this
_ _ _ _ _ _ dayof ______-', 20__

My commission explles:
x~

___________________
Notary Public Signature  

" 

-

Notary Seal

If the corporation Is not registered In the State of Illinois, a copy of the Certificate of Good S1anding from the state
of Incorporation must be submitted wHh this Signature Page.

In the event that thIs Signature Page Is signed bvany persons than the President and Secretary. attach either a
certified copy of the corporate by-laws, resolution or other aulhorization by the corporaUon, authorizing such
persons to .Ign the Signature Page on behalf of the corporaton.

04.09

EDS·16c

 65

COOK COUNTY SIGNATURE PAGE
(SECTION 9)

ON BEHALF OF THE COUNlY OF COOK, A BODY POlITIC AND CORPORATE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS, THIS
CONTRACT IS HEREBY exECUTED BY:

PRESIDENT, COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

COOK COUNTY PURCHASING AGENT

COOK COUNTY COMPTROLLER

DATEDATCHICAGO,I.LINOIS THIS _ _ DAYOF_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _--',,20--.

IN THE CASE OF A BID PROPOSAL. THE COUNTY HEREBY ACCEPTS:
THE FOREGOING BlDIPROPOSAL AS IDENTIFIED IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS FOR CONTRACT NUMBER

ITEM(S). SECTlON(S). PART{S):_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

TOTALAMOUNTOFCONTRAC~

$,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- _

(DOLLARS AND CENTS)

FUNDCHARGEABte~

_______________________________

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

ASSISTANT STATE'S ATTORNEY

04.09
EDS-17

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
May 22, 2009

ATTACHMENT #3 


 Cook County Department of Public Health
Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Health S)'Sccm Buard'Mcmlll'n!
Dr. D~\'i" A. ArueU
C.~icclCl' Jcny Burlor
D~id N. au.'alhu
Quin It. (ii>1d1:11
&on Gmcnop2ft
Sr. Sheila I.yn• 

Dr. I " R.l\fIIOOz 

I leather 1::. Q'OomeD 

Andrea L. 7.opp 


TolhI H. SUGger' President
Cook Cmmty Bo:udofCo~
WIl~U 1.. 8l1", •

Ch2irrrtM

enok County Hallh Ire Hospillk SYSlem

.lulge Ramhc:z • Vice auitman
Cook Counl)' Heallh Ire Hoopilols S)'lIb:Jft 

William T. FQ!cy· ceo
Coole County Health & Hospil. System 


1010tacS~t.Suiu:300

Oal I':vk.lIlinni' (10301
Tclcphanc (lOB) 492,·2000
'IDD (7D8) 492·2002

Stepl1cn It.. MII.1'tin,Jf., Ph.D.. M.P.H.

ChicrOper:Wng Officer

May 18,2009
Cook County Health & Hospital System Board
Dear Chainnan Batts:
The Cook County Department ofPubHe Health (CCDPH) respectfully reguests authorization for the Purchasing
Agent to enter into and execute a contract with AT & T Corp., Chicago, Illinois, to provide video conference
equipment, as well as associated services, including configuration, installation, implementation, training and
maintenance services, for the Department ofPublic Health to communicate during nonnal and emergency
operations with those governmental and non-governmental offices inside and outside County government.
AT & T Cor». is recommended based upon the results ofa Request for Proposal (RFP) process. The Department of
Public Health in conjunction with the Purchasing Agent conducted an RFP process with the goal of awarding a
contract. The RFP was issued in November 2008 and fe-issued in December 2008. After two (2) RFP submission
periods, there was one (1) respondent to this RFP. AT & T Corp. was chosen based upon their response to the
specific criteria requested and recommendation ofthe selection committee. This contract is for three years.
Equipment and installation. configuration. training. and maintenance services will occur in year I. Maintenance
services on the equipment will occur in years 2 and 3.
Sincerely,

APPROVED

s~~e.~Ji.

MAY ~ 22009

ChiefOperating Officer

BY BOARD OF 

DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY 

HEALTH AND HOSPITAlS SYSTEM 


Enclosure

\Ve Bring HeakhCARE 10 Yaw: Community

 Transmitting a Communication, dated May 18, 2009 from
STEPHEN A. MARTIN, JR., Ph.D., M.P.H. CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, Cook County 

Department of Public Health 

requesting authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into and execute a contract with AT &
T Corp.t Chicago, Illinois, to provide video conference equipment, as wen as associated services,
including configuration, installation, implementation, training and maintenance services, for the
Department of Public Health to communicate during nonnal and emergency operations with
those governmental and non-governmental offices inside and outside County government.
Reason:   AT & T Corp. is recommended based upon the results ofa Request for Proposal
(RFP) process. The Department ofPublic Health in conjunction with the Purchasing
Agent conducted an RFP process with the goal of awarding a contract. The RFP was
issued in November 2008 and re-issued in December 2008. After two (2) RFP
submission periods, there was one (l) respondent'to this RFP. AT & T Corp. was
chosen based upon their response to the specific criteria requested and
recommendation ofthe selection committee. This contract is for three years.
Equipment and installation, configuration, training, and maintenance services will
occur in year I. Maintenance services on the equipment will occur in years 2 and 3.
Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Grant funded amount: $261,740.30 (769-579 Account).
Contract period: June 2,2009 through June 30, 2012. Requisition No. 87691001.
The Chief Information Officer ofCook County has reviewed this item and concurs with this
recommendation.
Vendor has met the Minority and Women Business Enterprise Ordinance.

 -. -

~-....

--..

....

_....

--- -......

~---

,---' .--.--

_.-

-.­

PAR'!' I 

Ihis CONTltACl is made and entered into by and between the COUNTY OF COOK, a body palitic
and corporate of rhe State of JIlillois. actiDg through the Cook Co'Unty Department of Public Health
(hereinafter referred to as "County") aDd AT&:'f Corp. (hereiRaftcr referred to .liS "Contrac:tor").
purs\tanl to uuthori:r.ation by the Cook County Board of C'..ommissioners,. as evidenced by Exhibit A.
~ard

AUlOOrizatiQJl.!&nsi!:,

WHEREAS, the (:001<: County Department of Public: Health (the "Depanmer.tt'') performs .a variety of
public bcaltll funclions. which ani pertonned within nunlcrous facilities located witbin the County of
Cook; and

'WtfEREAS. the [)cpartmenr desires 10 expitnd irs currenl inventory of telceonununications eqoipment
to pennit the estabJisluneDt ofa Ilctwork of video confereneing capabilities between the offices utilized
by 'the Department, as well as capabilities between those Department offices inside and outside Counly
gO~'ernmcnr (tbe "Equipment"); and
WH.fREAS. pursuant tlJ a Request for Proposals {"app.,) initially issued on or about November. 2008
and subsequently fe-issued on December 9, 2008. the DepaJ1ment sougbt the services of a qualified
Contraetor that wOlJld pro"ide the 'Equipment, as well as associated sen'ice5l, including eonfigullition.
insud'atiOll, i~1ernentali~n, training and maintenance sen-ices (the uServiccs'1: al'Id
WHEREAS, pursuant to its Response to the RFP dated November 21,2008 C'ResponRe?>). Contractor
J1.."'l'IeSenled thai it was willing and able to provide the Equipment and Servil;cs on tbe terms and
conditions set fonb herein and now !iQ represents.

NOW THEREFORE. in consideration of the premi~es and mutual undertakings herein set rorth, the
parties agree as follows:
J.

INCORPORATION OFRRCITALS

The above recitals are ineorporatc:d jnlo th;s Contract IS ifrully set for1h herein.

II.

SCOlE OF WORK

The Equipment and :::ieF'\;ces 10 be provided by O:mlrnc1or sball be as set forth in Exhibit B. Scope of
Wort. The requirements of Part iJ(: ~ounty Requiremcrlls: Special Condition-\., of the RFP and
Sections 3.0\ lhrough 3.03 of the Response (pagel, 18 througb 25, hlClusive) are jncorporaled within
Exhibit B. Scope ofWSUk by reference.

III,

TERM

This ('ontra~t shall commenc~ upon prOper exccUlioll by the Cowlty ("Effectj\'c Date") and shall
continue for TM,ty-Six (36) ruonlb.." thereafter, unles$l~nnjnuted earlier as provided berein ("'Tenn").
IV.
!';'OMPENSATION ANI) PAYMENT TERMS

(At

APPROVED

Maximum Cuntrac) Amount

All charges under this ContrDct shall

001 CXCl."Cd

Ihe slim of .$261,740.30 (the "tv :axim~ ~~ 22009
1

BY BOARD OF 

DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY 

HEAlTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 


 - - - , ---- _ - ._-­
.....

Amount") and shan he paW according to the ircmi7.cd breakdou,"ll set furth in Exhibit 13, Scope ofWorJi
and the Payment Schedule set forth in Sl.Ibsec,jull (8). PUCllt Schedule, below.

~otwjth~anding an>1hing staled to the contrary herein. Ihe panies agree that: 1) the prices refer~l«d
m E~1n"l~ B. Sc~pc of Work arc ~rm prices and DOl c.qlimatcs and shall nOl be subject to cx.pim[ion Or
moddicatlon dunng the term of Elus Contract except upon Ole mutual written agreement "f the panics:
and 2) the Mnximnm Contrat:1 amount is inclusive orany $hipping and {reight charges.
(8)

Pa)'TIlent Scbedule

The Maximum Controcl amount shall he paid as {onows;
I.
2.
3,

Upon the InitiallnsluUation Date (defined below)
12 months after the Initial Installation Date
24 months after the Ininal Installation Date

Total

$210.860.30

S 2>,440.00

S 25,440.00 


$261,740.30.

For purposes ofIbis Contmct, the "IniliallnsraUariol'l Date" is defined as the date upon which all of the
fbllQwmg hove occvaed: I) Contractor ha... installed and configured the F.quipme.nl. set fortb ill Exhibit
B, SCQpe ofWork; 2) Contractor has completed tbe training set tbrth in Exhibit B. Sc:ope of WQ!'\t; .and
3} the Counly has isslled its wrinen acceptance of the: insl;dled and configured Equipmenl and tbe
completed trdilling.

v.

GENERAL CONDITIONS -; SUPPJ~Y/SERVICI

This •.\grtem.enl incorporales and is subject to the provisions aUacbed hereto as Part Jr. Gem:ral
Conditio.ns - Supply/Service-Sole Source.
VI.

CONTRACT DOCUMENTS; ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

The documents comprising (his Contract ("Contrael Documents") are: I} Part I; 2) Part 11, General
Condition...-·SupplylScrvicc..so(e Source; 3} Exhibit A. 1loard Allthorization Letter; $.nd 4) Exhibit a,
Sco~ o(Work.
This ContraCl shall he interpreted :and construed based upon Ihe following order of precedence of
C'.oJltract Documents. Such order of precedence shall control to reso)ve 1111 cases of conniel, ambiguity
or inconsistency.

J.
2.

Part I:

3.
4.

E:!(bibil B. sC!.P9.orWO[~;
Exhibit ~ Board Authodution Lenet.

Part II. <kncrul Condi1ions . Supply/Scrvicc..solc Source,

lEND OF SECTION)

2

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
May 22, 2009

ATTACHMENT #4 


 Cook County Department of Public Health
Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Hu.llh SJIIlcm Board MembcnI
Dr. Ol'>jd A- ,\nscII

Todd H. SUogcr' P.".idC1lt
Cook C.o\1RI¥
of ComrnissiallCl'5

noard

Commis,ioner Jerry Buller
Ouid N. C'arv.alhu 

Quin R. Golden
&MGncmpaR
Sr.. S!u:ib Lrne 

Dr.....is R. Mulloz 

Hc:aIh... R. O'Donnell 


Warren 1.. Bams' 0Wtnw!
Cook Colli'll)' UC2l1h & HOlpitals Srs1em 


Jeng<: RAlROiI'Cil: • VICe 01aimw1
Cook Couruy llalll1 & J lospitals Syslcm 


A~I.Zopp

William T. Poley' CEO




Cook CoIIDly Uallh & HOlpitals S)'11cm 

10tO I.ae Stm:I" 5ulu::too 

oak Pari:, lIIinois 00301 


Tch:phone (70B) "92.2OOll
mo (708) 492·2002

Stephea A. Martin. Jr•• Ph.D.. M.1'.H.

ChicfOpcnting orow

May 13,2009
Cook County Health & Hospital System Board
Dear Chainnan Batts:
The Cook County Department ofPublic Health (CCDPH) respectfully reguests authorization to apply for a grant
from the National Association of County & City Health Officials (NACCHO). The application to be submitted
would seek $400,000.00 in grant funds to work in collaboration with the Public Health Institute ofMetropolitan
Chicagot a not for profit organization with expertise in the administration of grants involving public health projects,
and with the University of Illinois at Chicago School of Public Health (UICSPH).
The Cook County Department ofPublic Health would be the lead agency on the proposed project, which would
involve the establishment ofan "Advanced Practice Center" (APC) following NACCHO and Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention guidance to improve access to critical public health preparedness resources for emergency
planning and training. The Public Health Institute ofMetropolitan Chicago would administer funding received for
this project, and the UICSPH would conduct the appropriate research to establish these communication networks
and prepare the guidance fa, replication ofthis project in other health departments throughout the country.
By establishing an APe. the CCDPH will join a network that provides vital knowledge regarding work that has
been done by other local health departments across the United States, helping to reduce duplication ofresources and
effort and to expose local planners to quality innovations, strengthening the Department's ability to perform
vulnerability assessments and to strengthen response capacity.

Sincerely,

S~~:e~PR.

Chief Operating Officer

APPROVED
MAY t 22009
BY BOARD OF 

DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY 

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 


We Brmg Hea1thCARE to Your Community

.

\

.

 