Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Friday,
November 14, 2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago,
Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chairman Butler called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chairman Hon. Jerry Butler and Directors Lewis M. Collens; Ric Estrada; Ada Mary
Gugenheim; Emilie N. Junge; Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P.
Wiese (8)

Absent:

Chairman M. Hill Hammock (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Debra Carey – Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory
Services
Peter Daniels – Chief Operating Officer, Hospital-Based
Services
Douglas Elwell – Deputy CEO of Finance and Strategy,
Interim Deputy CEO of Operations
Steven Glass – Executive Director of Managed Care

II.

Randolph Johnston – Associate General Counsel
John O’Brien, MD – Director of Professional Education
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Joyce Schoonover – System Director of Risk
Management
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Acting Chairman Butler asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speakers:
1.
2.

III.

Lee Kidd
George Blakemore

Patient
Concerned Citizen

Employee Recognition
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief Executive Officer, indicated that there were no specific employee recognitions to present
for this meeting.

IV.

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, October 31, 2014
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Board of Directors Meeting of October 31, 2014.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, November 7, 2014
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of November 7, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 1 of 27

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, November 14, 2014
Page 2

IV.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, November 7, 2014
 Contracts and Procurement Items
It was noted that Contract Compliance has completed review of all of the contracts considered at the November 7th
Finance Committee Meeting, with the exception of request number 2; therefore, request number 2, under the
Contracts and Procurement Items, is being withdrawn from consideration at this time.
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of November 7, 2014, with the exception of request number 2
under the Contracts and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes, which was
withdrawn. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

V.

Action Items
A. Contracts and Procurement Items
There were no Contracts and Procurement Items presented directly for the Board’s consideration.

B. Any items listed under Sections IV, V and VIII

VI.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Acting Chairman Butler indicated that he did not have a report to present at this time.

VII. Report from Chief Executive Officer
Dr. Shannon provided an update on several subjects; detail is included in Attachment #1. The Board reviewed and
discussed the information.
A.

Central Campus Redevelopment (Attachment #2)

Debra Carey, Chief Operating Officer of Ambulatory Services, and Peter Daniels, Chief Operating Officer of HospitalBased Services, provided an overview of the information contained in the Central Campus Redevelopment update.
Douglas Elwell, Deputy Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Finance and Strategy and Interim Deputy CEO of
Operations, provided additional information. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.
Director Estrada inquired regarding coordination efforts with the Illinois Medical District (IMD). Ms. Carey stated
there will be a lot of coordination with the IMD on this project; she added that the IMD has been involved since this
process began. Director Estrada stated that, when he served as a member of the Illinois Medical District Commission,
one of the big issues that they dealt with was how to help the overall community/West Side, and how folks in that
community can be assured that they will have the opportunity to have access to the jobs that will be created. Ms. Carey
assured him that this is part of the discussions.
Page 2 of 27

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, November 14, 2014
Page 3

VII. Report from Chief Executive Officer
A. Central Campus Redevelopment (continued)
In response to comments from Director Velasquez regarding parking issues on the Campus, Mr. Daniels stated that part
of the early stage requirements of the Request for Proposals (RFP) will be an assessment and overall parking plan; the
goal is to have a uniform approach throughout the entire System.
Director Wiese inquired regarding how signage will be reviewed under these plans. Mr. Daniels responded that it is a
part of the project; it will be reviewed early in the planning process and during the construction process.
Director Lerner inquired regarding the timeline for the project. Ms. Carey stated that the final responses to the RFP are
expected in May 2015. There will be a committee that will be responsible for review and approval of the final
responses; she anticipates that review and approval will take place in the summer of 2015. The administration would
like to have the “shovel in the ground” by the end of 2015; however, that depends on several factors. Dr. Shannon
stated that, with regard to the construction timeline, what has been mentioned is eighteen (18) months. He stressed the
importance and urgency as it relates to the Fantus Building; that is the point of maximal urgency, and that will be the
impetus that will drive the administration to push the developer and all parties involved to move quickly along. It will
require constant pressure to get it done. Director Lerner indicated that receiving timeline updates would be helpful.
Director Lerner stated that he is less concerned at this stage with specific locations and outcomes than he is about
process. For example, with regard to storage needs for the Campus, he asked whether there will be some type of
organized planning done to determine whether good use is being made of the current space, to look at the number of
steps between Point A and Point B, etc. Ms. Carey responded that the process of addressing those issues in detail will
be under the responsibility of the developer. Mr. Daniels indicated that many factors such as those mentioned by
Director Lerner will be considered during the planning process. He stated that what the administration has now is a
very high-level assessment; they are really only in the inventory stage at this point.
Director Lerner stated that, since the Board does not have a committee directly relating to capital planning, it should
consider how it will review the ongoing process to effectively provide oversight.
Director Lerner inquired whether capacity planning for the number of patients who utilize inpatient services at Stroger
Hospital will be included in the review. Ms. Carey responded that there is not an intent to re-do or restructure the
inpatient units; however, certain aspects of inpatient services will have to be considered as they relate to Ambulatory
services. Dr. Shannon stated that the administration is trying to keep the intensity of focus on Ambulatory services at
the present time. This includes focusing on what is needed to replace or find new space for services currently being
provided in the Fantus Building. Twelve (12) years have passed since the base of Stroger Hospital has been used as an
Ambulatory site; it has grown and contracted in many ways since planned for in the mid-1990s - that will be the part of
the consideration around Stroger Hospital.
Director Lerner stated that he appreciates the focus on Ambulatory services, without a doubt; however, he stated that
what is being creating here is a system – a system that runs all the way from what he calls “pre-primary” care through
post-acute care. The planning process has to undertake the question of what should be on this Campus versus what
should be part of the distributed network that is being created by the System. Additionally, they should consider the
likely implications for inpatient capacity as a result of this focus on a continuum of care that includes both before
hospitalization and after hospitalization care.
Director Collens, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to receive and file the Report from
the Chief Executive Officer and Central Campus Redevelopment update. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 3 of 27

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, November 14, 2014
Page 4

VIII. Closed Meeting Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. Discussion of personnel matters
C. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, November 7, 2014
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Estrada, moved to recess the open meeting and convene
into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the
public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against,
affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in
which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed
meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of claims
as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if
otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or
discussion of claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or
communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any
intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body
is a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or
formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.”
On the motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Acting Chairman Butler and Directors Collens, Estrada, Gugenheim, Junge, Lerner,
Velasquez and Wiese (8)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Chairman Hammock (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Acting Chairman Butler declared that the closed meeting was adjourned.
reconvened into the open meeting.

IX.

The Board

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chairman Butler declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.

Page 4 of 27

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, November 14, 2014
Page 5

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Hon. Jerry Butler, Acting Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 5 of 27

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
November 14, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 6 of 27

 COOK COUNTYHEALTH
8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM



JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NOVEMBER 14, 2014

 

CEO Report

- As of November 3,272 employees have complied with the Flu policy. Employee Health
Services continues to offer the vaccine throughout the system. The deadline for compliance is December 
Patients are also being offered the flu shot in all clinical settings. More than 12,000 patients were immunized in
the month of October bringing total patient vaccinations to more than 21,000 since the initiative began in
September. All pharmacy clients are receiving the attached flu shot reminders with their prescriptions.

On Monday, November U5. Senator Richard Durbin and Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle will
host a roundtable at the Erie Family Health Center with patients who have benefitted from the Affordable Care
Act.

Eight CORE Center staff, Peer Educators and clients are among the fifteen individuals enrolled in the initial
Community Health Workers trainings at Malcolm College and South Suburban College. This past
summer, the Illinois General Assembly passed HB 5412, paving the way for statewide implementation of CHW
certifications and related-funded activities.

Legislative Update

Local

Wednesday, November 12, 2014 the Nominating Committee established by the Cook County Board met to consider
potential candidates to recommend to President Preckwinkle to serve on the Cook County Health 8: Hospitals System
Board.

On November 13, 2014 Dr. Shannon and a number of staff participated in the Kennedy Forum Illinois? inaugural
event which launched with an afternoon of discussion focused on mental health and "the cost of doing nothing?. The
Kennedy Forum is a campaign to end stigma against mental health and substance abuse disorders. The Kennedy Forum
Illinois is co-chaired by Sara Feigenholtz, Assistant Majority Leader of the Illinois House of Representatives and Peter
O'Brien and is comprised of a diverse partnership of business and civic leads, medical experts, policymakers and
advocates.

has been working with the Cook County Office of Capital Planning on a redevelopment plan for the Stroger
Campus. An informational Meet Greet was hosted by Capital Planning for prospective bidders on November 14, 2014.
The RFP for CCH the Core Medical needs, which includes the replacement of existing administrative space, is
expected to be issued on November 24, 2014.

The Cook County Finance Committee meets later this morning to consider amendments to the Presidents FY2015

Executive Budget Recommendation. The Board of Commissioners is expected to approve the FY2015 Annual
Appropriation Ordinance this afternoon. FY 2014 ends November 30, 2014.

Page 7 of 27

Two new Commissioners were elected to the Cook County Board on November 4, 2014. Richard R. Boykin will represent
the lS1t Cook County Board District which includes the west side of the city of Chicago, Bellwood, Broadview, Forest Park,
Maywood and Oak Park. Luis Arroyo, Jr. will represent the County Board District which is located on the northwest
side of the city of Chicago and includes the neighborhoods of Avondale, Hermosa, Humboldt Park Logan Square. The
President and the County Board of Commissioners will be sworn in on Monday, December 

Wednesday, November 19, 2014 is the next regular meeting of the Cook County Board.
State

A November 12, 2014 Senate Appropriations Committee Hearing on the State?s 1115 Medicaid Waiver application has
been canceled. No future meeting date has been identified at this time.

Veto Session is scheduled for November 19?21, 2014 and December 2?4, 2014.
Federal

On November 12, 2014 the Senate Committee on Appropriations held a hearing titled Government Response:
Fighting Ebola and Protecting America." Witnesses included: U.S. Department of Health 8: Human Services Secretary
Sylvia Burwell, CDC Director Dr. Thomas Frieden, National institutes of Health St National institute of Allergy Director Dr.
Anthony S. Fauci, and U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson.

The purpose of the hearing was to provide members with an overview of President Dbama?s Ebola funding request
which includes the following:
0 $3.12 billion for the Department of Health and Human Services
0 a portion of this funding will be used for training purposes and protective equipment for healthcare
professionals
a $2.9 billion for the State Department
a $112 million for the Department of Defense

The Department of Homeland Security did not ask for additional funding but may need some spending flexibility. It is
worth noting similar requests have been approved by Congress under both the Bush and Obama Administrations.

The Committee discussed the need to fight the outbreak at its origin in West Africa; the need to protect America at the
ports of entry to prevent the spread of Ebola in America; and the need to support the scientific and health community as
they work to curb the spread of the Ebola and develop vaccines and treatments. The majority Senators participating in
the hearing expressed the need to fight the spread of Ebola in West Africa.

Testimony from Homeland Security Secretary Johnson summarized initiatives underway from a passenger screening
standpoint. Currently individuals are screened prior to departure from affected nations in West Africa and denied
boarding if necessary. All passengers from the affected nations are funneled through five U.S. airports {including
Chicago?s O?Hare International Airport} with enhanced screening measures upon arrival. All ports of entry in the U.S. are
prepared for secondary screening measures if anyone shows Ebola-like The Department of Homeland
Security has been working closely with the airlines that operate flights in the region with high risk passengers.

Secretary Johnson noted that the number of travelers arriving in the 0.5. from the affected countries has dramatically
decreased in recent months. At the beginning of the outbreak, the average daily arrival was approximately 150

passengers. That number is now closer to 100 and there are days when only a handful of travelers enter the U.S. from
the West African nations.

2 Page

Page 8 of 27

Secretary Burwell (HHS) and Secretary Johnson (OHS) indicated Ron Klain is playing a critical role and having a full time
coordinator in the White House is extremely beneficial to interagency efforts.

Response to Ebola

Leadership from Infection Control, Emergency Medicine and Public Health continue to monitor the situation and work
with the Chicago and Illinois Departments of Public Health, Cook County Homeland Security and Emergency
Management, the CDC and our partners in the hospital community.

At this time, there are no confirmed cases in the United States and monitoring continues at O'Hare Airport.

Training on appropriate levels of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) continues system-wide. To date, more than 500
employees have been trained.

The Cook County Department of Public Health held a meeting for the hospitals in their jurisdiction on Thursday,
November 13"1 to discuss preparedness, training and protocols for the potential transport of suspect or confirmed cases.

As a result of enhanced screening protocols in place at O?Hare, remains on ?stand-by? to monitor individuals who
may be at risk based on their travel history.

Calendar of Events

Select Community Outreach events:

December 1 2014 Chicagoland World AIDS Day event will take place on December 1 with 3 10:00am press
conference held at Rush University Medical Center. Invited guest speakers are: Toni
Preckwinkle, Cook County Board President, Dr. John Jay Shannon, CED, Dr. Larry
Goodman, President 8: CEO, RUSH University Medical Center, and Captain. James Lando MD,
Regional Health Administrator for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 
Region V.

December 6 CountyCare promotion at the We Care Health Fair hosted by M.A.C.E.I.O. at 1546 w. 63rd St., in
Chicago. The Englewood Health Center may participate in this event also.

December 4 8t 7 CountyCare promotion at St. Gall?s Church?s Health Fair.
December 16, 17 3.: 18 CountyCare and ACHN Health Center promotions at various holiday events hosted by the
Housing Authority of Cook County. The locations are in the South Suburbs: The Richard Flower

Housing Complex (Robbins), The Vera Yates Housing Complex (Ford Heights) and The Sunrise
Housing Complex {Chicago Heights).

3 Page

Page 9 of 27

Don?t Let
The Flu
Stop You.

 

Protect yourself and your fa

Ask your doctor about getting your flu shot toda 
Flu shots availabie at any health center?s 
around Cook County. 

  

Page 10 of 27

Flu season is here.

The flu (influenza) is a serious and contagious disease
that anyone can catch even healthy adults and children.

Why get a ?u shot?

0 Flu viruses are constantly changing, and flu vaccines
can be updated from one season to the next.
Last year's flu shot may not protect you against
this year?s virus!

- Your immune protection from the flu shot
declines over time.

It You cannot get the flu from the flu shot.

Getting your shot everyr year
protects you the most.

Already have your flu shot?
Here are other ways to stay healthy this season: 

   
  
  

- Avoid contact with people who may have the flu.
Wash hands often with soap and water.

0 Avoid touching your eyes, nose, mouth to prevent:
spreading germs. 

Ask your doctor about getting a flu shot today!

Scarce.- Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
r-L. .-. r: 



 

Page 11 of 27

 

No deje que la gripe lo detenga.

iPregL?mtele a su m?dico c?mo vacunarse hoy mismo!
Las uacunas contra la gripe est?n a su disposici?n en
centre de salud de del COndado de Cook. 

COOK COUNTY-HEALTH


7" CCH 

 

Page 12 of 27

Ya estamos en la_
temporada de gnpe

La gripe [influenza] es una enfermedad grave contagiosa
que cualquier persona puede contraer incluso personas
adultas sanas ni?os sanos.

qu? debe vacunarse contra la gripe?

Los virus de la gripe cambian constantemente cada
temporada hay nuevas versiones de Ias vacunas contra Ia
gripe iLa vacuna de la gripe del a?o pasado posiblemente
no lo proteja contra el virus de este a?o!

- La proteccion que le da Ia vacuna contra Ia gripe a su
sistema inmunologico disminuye con el tiempo

- Recibir la vacuna antigripal no puede causarle gripe.

La mejor manera de protegerse es
vacunarse cada a?o

5e vacuno contra Ia gripe? Aqui Ie ofrecernos otr

recomendaciones para mantenerse sano saludable

esta temporada:

- Evite el contacto con personas que puedan tener gri

- Lavese las manos frecuentemente con agua jab?n 

0 Evite tocarse los ojos, Ia nariz la boca para ev?rtar la
propagacion de los g?rmenes

 
 
  
 
 
 
 

[Preg?ntele a su m?dico como vacunarse hoy mismoi

Fucnte.? Contra para of Controi la Prevention de Enfermedadas

COOK H-FAL-TH



 

Page 13 of 27

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
November 14, 2014

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 14 of 27

 C O O K C O U N T Y HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM
CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT

Project Update
N o v e m b e r 2 014

Page 15 of 27

 

T10

 

. 5 ?3.7




 

 


human?uramtl-.4-
57;. Parking-
~P?lk ft" Strugtlire
- i 4; Power
Building, Plant -..

{Hf??a . . . 
?ef?nl sE't?e Available?og Core' j? 

??sefnu?e Pedig?g?ip?nt 1?



in 
?ifgj? 

 

CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
P ROJECT O VERVIEW

• Address CCHHS’ core medical needs at the Central
Campus AND identify potential for redevelopment of
available Cook County real estate
• Translate into master development programs that
envision a broader, vibrant mixed-use campus for
CCHHS, Cook County and the community
• Conclude with project implementation - two master
developers to enhance the campus by leveraging
inherent value and creating revenue for the County

Page 17 of 27

3

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RFP SCOPE
• Issue 2 RFPs for master developers
• The first RFP will seek a master developer as a partner for CCHHS to
explore and plan for core medical needs on the Central Campus
• Fantus Clinical & Diagnostic Replacement
• Administrative Space – Administrative Building replacement
• Infrastructure - utilities
• Parking
P ki
• Amenities – food service, retail

• Th
The second
d RFP will
ill seekk an experienced,
i
d market-savvy,
k t
creative
ti
and skilled “master developer” that can unlock the value in the excess
campus real estate, including the old historic hospital building, to
enhance the urban area and produce revenue for the County
Page 18 of 27

4

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RFP PROCESS
Core Medical Needs RFP is organized in two sequential steps
• P
Partt One
O - Proposers
P
will
ill provide
id qualifications
lifi ti
and
d experience
i
specific
ifi
to CCHHS’ stated needs, as well as each Proposer’s strategic approach
based on its review, assessment and understanding of the development
program and objectives
• Part Two - Responses will be requested only from a small number of
shortlisted Proposers selected pursuant to the Part One process. In
issuing the Part Two RFP, CCHHS in conjunction with Cook County will
provide more specific instructions and interaction to the short-listed
d
developers
l
tto ffacilitate
ilit t their
th i submittal
b itt l off d
detailed,
t il d strategic
t t i d
development
l
t
proposals.

Page 19 of 27

5

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RFP Timeline
Core Medical Needs RFP
•
•
•
•

Informational Session for RFP’s – November 14, 2014
RFP Issue Date – November 24, 2014
Pre-Proposal Conference & Tour – December 16, 2014
RFP Response Dates
• Part
P t One
O - February
F b
4
4, 2015
• Part Two – May 6, 2015

Market Rate Development RFP
•
•

RFP Issue Date – December 18, 2014
Pre-Proposal Conference & Tour – January 9, 2015

Page 20 of 27

6

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Strategic Considerations
Clinical and Diagnostic Services
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Development of ROC concept from Vision 2015
Determination of optimal services at current ACHN sites
Assessment of gaps in services
Assessment of CountyCare utilization insights
Avoiding duplication of costly services
Assessment of Specialty Care Center at 12 years
Goal of avoiding
g increase in debt service

Page 21 of 27

7

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Strategic Considerations
Clinical Assessment
• Fantus Clinic Replacement – 60,000 to 80,000 square feet
– Existing
E i ti services:
i
244 000 annuall registrations
244,000
i t ti
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

General Medicine Clinic (GMC) – Adult Primary Care
Ambulatory Screening Clinic (ASC)
Gynecology
Medical Specialties
Pediatrics & Pediatric Sub-Specialties
Psychiatry
Laboratory
Pharmacy

Page 22 of 27

8

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Strategic Considerations
Space Assessment
•

Facilities Review of Existing Sites
–
–
–
–
–

•

Inventory and Catalogue
–
–
–
–
–

•

Availability
A
il bilit
Capacity
Maintenance Requirements
Purpose
Capability
Categorize
Current and Proposed Needs
Location
Special Needs
Number of People

Collaboration with Countyy Capital
p
Planning
g and Real Estate
Page 23 of 27

9

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Strategic Considerations
Administrative Space
•
•
•
•

Review of County space allocation guidelines
Assessment of services critical re proximity to Stroger
Review of storage
Review of administrative support

Page 24 of 27

10

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Strategic Considerations
Parking
•
•
•
•

Overall assessment and parking plan part of RFP
Goal of uniform approach across system
system, prioritizing patient needs
Anticipate disruption during construction of CCHHS facilities as well as
neighboring work in IMD
Th
Thoughtful
htf l approach
h re patient,
ti t visitor,
i it employee
l
t
travel
l challenges
h ll

Page 25 of 27

11

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Strategic Considerations
Options and Alternatives
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Geography
Location Needs
Adjacency
Data, Communications, Utility Requirements
Ability to Staff
Building Modifications
Staff and Patient Access
Staging and Phasing
Regulatory

Page 26 of 27

12

 CENTRAL CAMPUS REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
System Board’s Role
In the Process
• All CCHHS facilities are governed by the Board pursuant to its enabling
ordinance
• Planning, development and funding of major capital projects are through
the County
County’s
s Department of Capital Planning in coordination with the
System and the Board
• System and Capital Planning through the County, have an
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Illinois Medical District to work
cooperatively on development of County properties located within the
District
• System Board approval is required for any procurement of $150,000 or
greater paid out of the System’s budget

Page 27 of 27

13

 