REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

OCTOBER 16, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Warren L. Batts; Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell, MD,
Hon. Jerry Butler; David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, MPH,
Sister Sheila Lyne, Luis Munoz, MD, MPH and Heather E. O?Donnell,
JD, LLM (Ill)

Absent: Director Andrea Zopp I)

Also Present: Marcel Bright Director of Public Affairs, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County;
Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Patrick
T. Driscoll, .lr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Office of the
State?s Attorney; Randall Mark -- Director of Policy Analysis, Cook County Health and
Hospitals System; Matt Powers Health Management Associates; David R. Small 
Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on
Thursday, October 16, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 AM. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the
?fth ?oor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of
members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF FRIDAY. OCTOBER 3. 2003 AT 7:30 A.M.

 

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Friday, October 3, 2008. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT FROM SYSTEM BOARD CHAIRMAN WARREN L. BATTS

Chairman Batts provided information or updates on the following subjects.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
OCTOBER 16, 2008

Page 2

Update on Fiscal Year 2009 Budget

Chairman Batts distributed copies of the budget transmittal letter which was sent to President Stroger and
the County Commissioners on October 16, 2008. (See Attachment Discussion took place, and
comments were made with regard to the 2009 budget process and anticipated processes for future years?
deliberations. Director Ansell requested that the preliminary budget review and discussion take place at
the Board level next year; the budget would then be referred to the Finance Committee for their detailed
review and discussion.

Chairman Batts outlined the steps that Were expected to take place for this Year?s budget process. He
indicated that meetings would be held with the President, County Finance Chairman John P. Daley, and
the individual County Commissioners in the week of October 20th. He stated that the County Board has
forty??ve days from the time of submission to vote on it; if they don?t vote on it within that time, it goes
into effect.

The discussicn turned to the County Board's approval process of the System?s budget. In response to a
question from Director Ansell with regard to whether the County Board?s modi?cations of the budget
would return back to the System Board, Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State's Attorney and Chief of the
Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the State?s Attorney, stated that the County Board has final
approval.

Director Ansell stated that if the System?s budget is modi?ed by the County Board, the System Board
should have the ability to decide which programs should remain in the budget as a result of the
modi?cations. Furthermore, he requested that the System?s Board or Finance Committee review any
modi?cations to re-allocate priorities.

Update on discussions with consulting ?rms

Chairman Batts provided an update on discussions that have been held on the subject of bringing in a
consulting firm to assist the Board in their improvement efforts. He stated that so far, four companies
have either declined to discuss the subject, did not re5pond, or declined after the presentation due to the
size and complexity of the task. They have yet to meet with the largest firm; meetings and discussions to
address this issue will continue.

 

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER DAVID R. SMALL

David R. Small, Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, began
by introducing Marcel Bright, Director of Public Affairs at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County.
(See Attachment 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
OCTOBER 16, 2008

Page 3

Mr. Small presented information on the following topics or issues:
Cook County Board' of Commissioners meeting of October 15, 2008

Mr. Small indicated that on October 15th, the Cook County Board approved the amendment to the
Intergovernmental Transfer Agreement; this allows for an additional payment of $3.67 million.

Compliance issue

During the discussion ofa compliance issue with regard to the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board,
Director Carvalo recused himself.

External independent auditors for iscai Year 2008

Mr. Small stated that the enabling ordinance requires the System Board to select and engage an external
independent auditing ?rm to handle the ?nancial auditing of the System. He reminded the Board that the
County had previously entered into a three-year agreement with Deloitte Touche to perform the health
audit. He stated that Deloitte 3r. Touche has inquired whether the System would like them to continue
going forward. He did not have a cost estimate, but stated that if the System continues with Deloitte 3r.
Touche, the System would he charged back.

Chairman Batts stated that the Audit Committee must meet to discuss the item and to make a
recommendation'.

Dashboard reporting

Mr. Small provided an update with regard to dashboard reporting.

Policies and Procedures for Procurement

Mr. Small stated that they are consulting with the State?s Attorney?s Office on the policies and procedures
for procurement; he expects that these will soon be brought to the Finance Committee.

Single J?Vi'ea?icalI Sta?By-Lmvs

Mr. Small stated that the first draft of a single set of medical staff bylaws has been received from the
State's Attorney?s O??ice for review.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
OCTOBER 16, 2008

Page 4

Parmsramp/Collaboration Proposals from UIC

Mr. Small stated that a meeting was held with the Dean of the University of Illinois-Chicago?s medical
school with regard to potential partnerships or collaborations. He cited possible bene?ts from such a
relationship, such as possible cost savings and the potential for additional teaching components. He stated
that recommendations would be presented to the Finance Committee.

Discussion continued on the issue; Director Greenspan announced his con?ict of interest with regard to
any decisions made with the University of Medical Center. Director Lyne stated that the Board
must be involved in conversations; the subject of broad academic affiliations is a Board issue.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Human Resources Committee Meeting of [0-10-08

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Human
Resources Committee for the meeting of October 10, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Finance Committee Meeting of 10-10-03

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Finance
Committee for the meeting of October 10, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of 10-15-03

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Audit and
Compliance Committee for the meeting of October 15, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
OCTOBER 16, 2008

Page 5

DISCUSS AND APPROVE PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE RULES OF THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

(Deferred at the October 3, 2008 meeting of the Board of Directors.)

Submitting for approval the following amendment to the Rules of Organization and
Procedure of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Rule 4. Organization, Standing committees and subcommittees, (2) The standing
committees of the System Board shall be:

A. Finance. This Committee shall be familiar with and review the income and expenditures
of the advise the Chief Executive Of?cer, Chief Operating Of?cer and Chief
Financial Of?cer in preparation of the budget, review the proposed budget in advance of
presentation to the System Board, and make recommendations to the System Board on all
such ?nancial matters. Additionally, this Committee will develop and present to the
System Board, a recommended multi?year ?nancing plan in support of the 
strategic plan adopted by the System Board. This Committee shall be responsible for
developing, implementing and monitoring policies and procedures regarding procurement
and contracting for the -- - - 
eentFeet-s?by?this?Gemm-ittee. The Svstein Board deleggtes to this Committee the
authority to act on behalf of the System Board in all matters regarding contracts for
supplies, materials and equipment and contractual services for the System. Minutes of
this Committee. as submitted to the Svstem Board, shall include a list of contract matters
approved bv this Committee for the System Board's receipt and ?ling. This Committee
shall further develop its responsibilities and determine a plan to implement those
reSponsibilities. This Committee shall consider other matters as may be assigned by the
System Board.

 

 

Discussion took place on the proposed amendment to the Rules of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System. Suggestions were made for possible revisions; it was determined
that the Finance Committee would discuss the item to determine guidelines.

 

UPDATE FROM AD HOC STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE

 

Director Greenspan provided an update on Strategic Planning. As the Committee is struggling to get the
information needed, management resources are being pulled in many directions. He suggested that, on a
short-term basis, the services of an individual be engaged to pull the data together. This will be proposed
as a Finance Committee item. He added that the original date of October 3lst for the plenary session
(introduction of the Strategic Planning Process to the stakeholders) has been changed to November 14,
2008 at 3:00 RM.

With regard to the subject of engaging outside consultants, Director Greenspan stated that the operations
consultants that they have spoken with have unanimously concluded that two processes will dovetail;
operations will be assisted by the results of strategic planning and strategic planning will be assisted by
the data that is generated from increased operations efforts.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
OCTOBER 16, 2008

Page 6

Director Golden reminded the Board to review the list previously distributed with the names of the
stakeholders to be invited to the plenary session; Mr. Small was asked to re-send the list). She asked the
Board to forward to Mr. Small any suggestions for changes to the invitation letter.

 

PRESENTATION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL TRANSFERS

Finance Committee Chairman Carvalho and Director O?Donnell gave a detailed presentation on
Intergovernmental Transfers. (See Attachment 

Matt Powers, of Health Management Associates, provided additional information on the subject.

 

UPDATE ON RECRUITMENT EFFORTS FOR THE PERMANENT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
FOR THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Golden, moved to recess the regular session and convene
into closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 
et seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The recruitment, credentialing,
discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or
other institution providing medical care, that is Operated by the public body.? THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and
convene into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.

Secretary DeLeon replied that there were none.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
OCTOBER 16, 2008
Page 7

ADJOURNNIENT

Director O?Donnell, seconded by Director Butler, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

was (with

Warren L. Bans, Chairman

Attest:

Mun/15?

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

 

The following was requested or was indicated as a follow-up item at this meeting:

1 Follow up item for Audit Committee: discuss and recommend action on the subject of external
independent auditors for Fiscal Year 2008. On page 3.

2 Request to re-send the list of names of the stakeholders to be invited to the Strategic Planning plenary
session. On page 6. (David Small)

Cook County Health Hospitals System

 

Health System Board Members
Dr. David A. Ansell
Commissioner Jerry Butler
David N. Carvalho

?I'odd ll. Stroger - President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

\Varren L. Bolts - Chairman

 

Cook County Health 62 Hospital System Quin R. Golden
Benn Greenspan
.I urge Ramirez - Vice-Chairman Sr. Sheila Lyne
Cook County Health 8: iospitals System Dr. Luis R. Munoz
Heather E. O'Donnell
David R. Small, FACHE - Interim CEO . Andrea L. Zopp

Cool; County Health 3: Hospitals System

 900 W. Polk Street, Suite IE3
Chicago. IL 6061?.

October 16, 2008
Dear President Stroger and Cook County Board of Cemmissioners:

Please accept the Cook County Health and Hespitals System Board?s budget recommendation for the
County?s Health and Hospitals System for Fiscal Year 2009. The budget recommendation was
approved unanimously by the new System Board.

It is important to highlight that the System Board?s recommended budget is a transition budget in its
effort to rebuild, re?engineer and reform the County?s health care system. The System Board has been
in operation for just over three months. The have met every week as a board or committee
since July to lay the grdundwork for meaningful and lasting long- -term reform. This budget represents
the ?rst step in this process.

The recommended budget re?ects four principal goals of the Board:

Improve existing revenue streams, as well as identify new revenue sources,

Seek operational efficiencies and economies,

Add the necessary core functions and capacities that are absent or inadequately staffed, and
Most importantly, deliver critical quality health care services to the uninsured and
underinsured residents of Cook County.

Each of these goals will take time to accomplish in addition to dedicated resources and quali?ed
personnel. They are interrelated in many ways. For example, institutional capacity for ?nancial and
operational analysis-both of which have been woefully lacking, are necessary to identify operational
efficiencies and economies. Improved ef?ciency, and the resomces thereby freed up, will be necessary
to ensure that critical services are available to all residents of Cook County who seek them from the
System. Meeting critical capital needs and improving our IT systems are required to accomplish all of
our responsibilities.

in broad brush, the budget was put together in the following way: First, the costs of in?ation and
County-negotiated collective bargaining agreements were included. This circumstance alone accounts
for nearly 60% of therecommended budget increase. Next, the most critical institutional capacity
de?ciencies and service needs were identi?ed and explicitly budgeted for, with new sales tax revenues.
Finally, goals for operational ef?ciencies and economies were established and identi?ed as the source
of funding for further necessary capacity additions and the rebuilding of essential services.

- Ambulatory 3: Community Health Network - Ccrmalt Health Services . Department of Public Health 0
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital ofCook County - Oak Forest Hospital . Provident Hospital - Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community

As required under the Ordinance establishing the System Board, we have begun the strategic planning
process for the County?s health care system and the nationwide search for a permanent System Chief
Executive Of?cer. Both will be completed in the middle of the budget year and will signi?cantly
impact the direction the System takes over the coming years.

However, the System cannot wait. Accordingly, the System Board has constructed a budget with
maximum ?exibility, yet as realistic as possible at this time in the reform process. We have not asked
for everything we believe we need we are holding ourselves and our administrators to the task of
?nding the additional resources to meet our needs from internal savings and improved revenues.

The budget submitted will be a living, breathing document. Over the course of the next-?scal year, the
System Board will expect the System management to identify opportunities for signi?cant ef?ciency
improvements and revenue enhancements and the System Board will direct resources saved or obtained
to meet the additional System needs that have not been explicitly budgeted for. The process for
accomplishing this has already begun so that operational improvements can be realized as quickly as
possible.

Perhaps the most important number shaping this budget is a number that appears nowhere in the
document. Just last week, the U.S. Census Bureau released a new estimate of the number of uninsured
persons in Cook County - 784,930, or 16.9% of the population. The Cook County health care system
sees only a fraction of these persons each year, but serves as the ultimate safety net for all of them. In
addition, we have learned of unmet needs throughout the system, eSpecially southern Cook County. We
know that the resources we have asked for in this budget are inadequate to these tasks, but nonetheless it
is our responsibility to provide quality health care services in an ef?cient and effective manner with our
limited resources.

Respectfully,

61"? 
?fth

Warren L. Batts

Chair

Cook County Health and Hospitals System 
Board of Directors I

Ce: Board of Directors
David R. Small, Interim CEO
Joseph M. Fratto, Chief of Staff
Donna L. Dunnings, Cook County CFO

- Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services 0 Department of Public Health .
- John H. Stroger. .lr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Heepital - Provident Hospital - Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community

10

 

Health System Board Members
Dr. Bandit. Ansell

CommissiorIer Jen-y Burler
David N. Carvalho

Cook County Health Hospitals System

l?odd H. Strogeri President
Co?olt ouuty Board of Corrunissioners

t?l'arren L. Batu; Chainnan

 

. Cook COW Harnesses Sis-em our? R. Golden
orge Ramirez - Vice-Chainuan Benn Greenspan
Cook County Health 5: Hospitals System Sr. Shula Lyne.
I Dr. Luis H. Mu?oz

David R. Small, FAGIE inteIirn CE Heather E. O'Donnell
Cook County Health 3: Hospitals Syste NEWS RE EASE Andrea L. Zopp


1900 West Polk Slicer. Suite 220
Chicano. Illinois sums

For Immediate Release: October 16, 2008 Contact: 312 864-5508

Marcel Bright is Director of Public Affairs at J. H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of Cook County. Beforejoining

Stroger Hospital' In June 2008 he worked at a variety of positions with the Chicago Police
Department. His last position with the Police Department was as a spokesman for its News Affairs
Office His other duties included writing news releases. as well as speeches and talking points for its

exempt (executive) members. He also organized news conferences.

Before joining the News Affairs Of?ce he worked in the Publications Unit where he was assistant
editor of The Police Star Magazine. He wrote articles, took photographs, edited copy and assisted in
the design of the publication. He also researched, wrote and designed Training Bulletins. Bright also
was an instructor at the Police Academy where he taught Preliminary Investigations and Case Report
writing. He also helped overhaul the lesson plan for-teaching case report writing to recruits.

in 1998 he was chosen as one of the ?rst members of the Police Departments Ambassador Program.
This group went to colleges job fairs and various media outlets to seek applicants for the then new

Chicago Police Exam that required two years of college credits.

Before he joined the Police Department he worked as copydesk editor at the'Chicago Defender and
was acting managing editor for live months. While there he also wrote editorials.

I . In 1995 and 1999 he worked as Press Secretary for Public School Principal Geraldine Laury' In her-
two aldermanic campaigns. 

Marcel Bright began his professional career as a reporter for the Decatur Herald and Review. He
also worked as a reporter in the Spring?eld, Ill. Bureau of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat.

In 1984 he earned a Masters Degree in Public Affairs Reporting from the University of Illinois at
Spring?eld. He received a Bachelors Degree in Journalism from Eastern. Illinois UniversIty In 1980.

Marcel Bright
"Pubiic Affairs and Communications Suite 133'
1900West Polk Street, Chicago, 60612

Direct: 312 864-5508 Cell: 773 716-4112
General: 312 864-0070 Pager: 312 713-0136
Fax: 312 864-9564 E-mail: org

 

mamuwwra?acom?w Hoht?i moan. eel-Ink emanates . Coolie ?one: Winn .
in 'Joliil H. tilts-agar, Hospital rem i- HorplIol .ltulli Ro?utoin CORE Center. I, .. .I
We Bring HealthCARE to Your Community

I TB Center for Tax and
. . Budget Accountability

 

Medicaid Funding for the CoOk
County Health and Hospital System

Heather O?Dortnell
Policy Director, Healthoare

October 16, 2008

0 Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2005

11

Funding Sources for the Health
and Hospital System for FY07

Federal Medicaid Funds: . 51.6%

Local Property Tax: 19.7%
Local Cigarette Tax: 16.7%
Medicare: 9.3%
Private InsuranCe and Self?Pay: 2.6%
Local Sales Tax: 

- 9 1000/0

Centerfor Tax and Budget Accountability 2008

12

The Importance of Medicaid to Cook
County?s Health and Hospital System

- More than half of the Health and Hospital

System?s revenue comes from Federal
Medicaid dollars.

3

Canterfnr Tax and Budget Accountability 2003

13

Cook County Payor Mix from
. ient Fee Revenue

100%

.

80%

60%

 

?ammammg? nmomw Tu?wmlitf

63 Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2MB

14

How MedicaidReimbursement
Works in Illinois

Generally, Medicaid is funded with state and federal funds. Illinois is
reimbursed by the federal government for half of its Medicaid

expenditures (50% FMAP rate).

The flow of money

 

 

Step 1: Provider
delivers Medicaid Step 2: State
services which, reimburses

 

 

 

based on the 15, Provider 
state's Reimbursement based on the 2d
reimbursement state's Medicaid Reimbursement

 

 

 

rates, entitles that reimbursement
Provider to rates
reimbursement

 

 

 

 

 

Step 3: Assuming a
50% matching rate,
the federal
government then
reimburses the state
which goes
into the state?s
General Revenue
Fund

 

 

5

lGenter for Tax and Budget Accountability 2008

15

Medicaid Funding 
at Cook County

-. At Cook County, Medicaid is financed by
local and federal funds only no state
dollars are used. 

6

Center for Tax and Budget Accountahilily 2MB

16

Typical
of pro

Cook
other

The 
paym
upto.
law en
the co

Witho
cover

Cock County Medicaid
Reimbursement

ly Medicaid reimbursement rates do not cover the actual cost

viding Medicaid services.

County receives higher Medicaid reimbursement rates than
providers to help the County cover its high indigent care costs.

igher Medicaid reimbursement rates are based on the ?upper
ent limit" or Under the UPL, a state can pay providers
what Medicare would have paid for the same services. (State
acted in 2008 has redefined how the UPL will be calculated in

ming years).

ut the higher rate allowed under the UPL, the County could not
its costs in providing indigent care.

7

Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2003

17

The CoOk County IGT 

Based on Medicaid services provided:

 

 

Step 2: Federal Medicaid
matching funds are triggered
based on higher reimbursement
rates under the Step 1: Local from
CC to IDHFS

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Step 4: CC sends a percentage
of the federal Medicaid matching
funds back to the State via an IGT.

Step 3: CC is reimbursed its
local contribution, plus it receives
the federal Medicaid match.

Source: Of?ce of the Illinois Comptroller; Cook County Bureau of Health. Illinois Department of . 8
Healthcare and Family Services.- ..
til Center for Tax and Budget 2003

18

The County?s Federal Medicaid 
Funds: Two Separate Sources

1. The reimbursement rates allowed under 
the UPL provisions (main and
Medicaid billing).

2. The ?Medicare, Medicaidand SCHIP
Benefits Improvement Protection Act of
2000? 

9

(El Center for Tax and EudgetAccountahilily 2003

19

Federal Funds 
Received under the UPL

Pursuant to severallGT agreements, the State
of Illinois and Cook County split the federal

funds. approximately 30% to Cook County; 70%
to the State.

Federal regulations enacted in 2001 significantly
- curtailed the County?s ability to trigger funds
using the UPL. The phase? out of the use of thIs
methodology was completed in 2008.

10

Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2008

20

Federal Medicaid Funds
. Received Pursuant to BIPA

Section 701(d) of BIPA was put into place to make up a
portion of the County?s lost Federal Medicaid funds
under the 2001 UPL regulations. .

BIPA funds are separate from typical Medicaid
reimbursement rates, including the UPL.

Sec. 701 of BIPA provides for special supplemental
Medicaid payments appropriated only to qualifying public
safety-net providers that serve a substantial number of
ow?income patients.

11

Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2003

21

Federal Medicaid Funds
- Received Pursuant to BIPA

Under BIPA, the Cook County health care
system triggers $375 million annually in Federal

Medicaid funds to cover the cost of indigent
care. 

Pursuant to an IGT agreement, these funds are
split between the County and the State. Cook
County retains 35% of the BIPA funds ($131
million), and the State retains 65% of the BIPA
funds ($243 million). .

12

Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2003

22

How the BIPA Funds Are Divided
Between the County and the State

 

 



$40

$35

53%

$250

$20

$150

$100

$50

FY02 FY93 FY04 FY05

 

FY06 

 

Amount of Sec. 701(d) BIPA funds distributed to Cook County I Amount of Sec. 7?01 BIPA funds retained by the State 

 

run! map-1mm 

- m_m . 



 

 

13

{9 Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2003

23

Cook County?s Health Care System Lost $120.5 Million
- in Medicaid Revenue Between FY05 and FY08

$300
$250
$200
$150
$100

$50

 

$0

FY05 FY06 FY07 

 

I Main IGTIUPL BIPA

 

- '14

Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2003

24

I Contact Information

. Heather O?Donnell
Center for Tax and Budget Accountability
Policy Director, Healthcare
  (312) 332-1348 
hodonnell@ctbaonline.org

15

:3 Center for Tax and Budget Accountability 2008

25

