Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Wednesday, December 11, 2013 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W.
Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Collens called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Lewis M. Collens and Director Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH (2)

Director M. Hill Hammock
Present
Telephonically: Director Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE (1)
Absent:

None (0)

Chairman Collens stated that Director Lerner was unable to be physically present, but was able to participate in
the meeting telephonically.
Chairman Collens, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved to allow Director Lerner to
participate as a voting member for this meeting telephonically. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Lerner indicated his presence telephonically.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Peter Daniels – Chief Operating Officer, HospitalBased Services
Krishna Das, MD – System Director of Quality,
Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation
Jesus (Manny) Estrada – Cermak Health Services
of Cook County
Randolph Johnston –System Associate General
Counsel
Cindy Kienlen – Cermak Health Services of Cook
County
Concetta Mennella, MD – Cermak Health
Services of Cook County

II.

Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical
Integration
Ozuru Ukoha, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County
Pierre Wakim, MD – Provident Hospital of Cook
County

Public Speakers
Chairman Collens asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

Page 1 of 77

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Wednesday, December 11, 2013
Page 2

III.

Report from System Director of Quality, Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
B. Publicly Reported Ratings
There were no updates to report regarding these matters at this time.

C. Update on patient and staff vaccinations for influenza
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief of Clinical Integration provided an update on the status of the influenza
vaccinations for the 2013/2014 influenza season. This year’s influenza vaccine became widely available for
both CCHHS staff and patients in the first week of October 2013. With regard to vaccination of patients, he
stated that there is not a single standard for reporting that is utilized industry-wide. At the System, what has
been devised is a mechanism for following opportunities for vaccination of patients that takes into account
the different areas where the patients enter the System, including the Emergency Department (ED), inpatient
environment, and primary and specialty care areas. At the end of November, approximately 21% of
potential patients had been vaccinated across all of those different encounters – there were a lower
proportion of patients being vaccinated in the ED milieu, and a far higher proportion of patients being
vaccinated in the primary care milieu. Overall performance, as of the end of November, is that
approximately 23-24% of potential patient encounters resulted in an influenza vaccination.
Chairman Collens inquired regarding the total number of patients that were offered the vaccination. Dr.
Shannon responded that that question is one of the issues on which staff is working. One of the activities
for this year is to create standardized standing orders - this is an order that can be signed off by the medical
director for an area that does not require a conscious act at every encounter in those different areas. There
are standing orders in certain parts of the organization, but not across the board. Creating standardized
standing orders is a joint effort of staff from the Quality, Nursing, and Information Technology departments.
With regard to the subject of influenza vaccinations of staff, Dr. Shannon stated that there has been a
growing movement for the expectation of health care workers to be vaccinated in the influenza season;
however, it has not yet reached the level of being a regulation of the federal or state government. He noted
that trends are being seen in that direction, both at the national and local levels, but currently, the
recommendations for seasonal influenza vaccination are mostly just strong recommendations, not a legal
requirement. He stated that, currently, influenza vaccination is not a condition of employment that has
been put into the System’s collective bargaining agreements; however, he noted that the administration
signed a policy in 2012 that clarifies that it is the expectation that personnel employed by CCHHS receive
influenza vaccination.
Dr. Shannon stated that, historically, the high point of staff vaccination performance for this organization
was in 2009; this was when the H1N1 outbreak occurred. CCHHS had documentation of vaccination for
over 5,000 employees that year; that was against a background of some 7,200 total budgeted full-time
equivalent employees (FTEs) that year. The staff vaccination performance has declined in the years since
then – from the first week of October to the last week of November (the reporting period beginning with
when the vaccine first became available), the administration has documented vaccination for over 3,000
(roughly 50%) of the employees across the organization. The majority of those vaccinations were provided
by CCHHS; there is also a procedure that allows staff to come in with documentation reflecting that they
received the vaccination elsewhere. Dr. Shannon stated that, because CCHHS does not have a sophisticated
employee management system or employee health application, the administration relies largely on a
Page 2 of 77

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Wednesday, December 11, 2013
Page 3

III.

Report from System Director of Quality, Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation
C. Update on patient and staff vaccinations for influenza (continued)
paper-based system and manual entry into a database maintained by Employee Health Services; data is fed
back to the departmental level – the information contains performance at a proportion level, not at the
individual staff level. The employee is to bring documentation of vaccination to their manager, and the
accountability resides at the local manager level. Dr. Shannon pointed out two areas that have achieved
over 90% performance – the Pharmacy Department and the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center of Cook
County.
Dr. Shannon stated that, moving forward, the administration would like to put more accountability in place,
with improvements in both the tracking of employees and around the opportunities for vaccinating patients.
Additionally, in the upcoming year, he indicated that the administration will be bringing the seasonal
influenza vaccination requirement to the bargaining table to make it a condition of employment. He stated
that he cannot predict how that negotiation will go, but that will be the stance the administration is taking.
Chairman Collens expressed his concerns regarding the low rates of seasonal influenza vaccinations of staff;
he believed that the hospital’s position is that this is a medically necessary and required vaccination in order
to protect the safety of the patients. Elizabeth Reidy, System General Counsel, stated that staff are currently
reviewing the question of whether there is actually a duty to bargain. This is an evolving area of case law;
there are states that are currently litigating it. She stated that the administration would like to further review
the issue and return with a response1.
Following discussion, Dr. Shannon stated that evidence has shown that the seasonal influenza vaccine
improves safety for patients, improves safety for the person who gets vaccinated, reduces absenteeism and
improves community health; it is also a safety measure for the family members of the person who gets
vaccinated.

D. Report on Cermak Health Services (Attachment #1)
Peter Daniels, Chief Operating Officer for Hospital-Based Services, provided a brief introduction to the item.
The following individuals from Cermak Health Services of Cook County reviewed the presentation and
overview of Cermak Health Services: Dr. Concetta Mennella – Interim Chief Medical Officer; Jesus (Manny)
Estrada – Interim Chief Operating Officer; and Cindy Kienlen – Chief Nursing Officer.
The presentation included information on the following subjects: Mission Statement; Overview of Services;
Cermak at the Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (JTDC); Trends; Activity; Residential Treatment Unit;
Nursing Care; Pharmacy Services; Mental Health Services; Infection Control; Department of Justice – Agreed
Order; Accomplishments and Areas of Improvement 2013; and Moving Forward – 2014 Goals. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
During the discussion of the information on the newly built Residential Treatment Unit, Director Hammock
inquired regarding how the building was financed. Mr. Estrada indicated that the cost of the building was $90
million but was unsure as to the question regarding financing. Director Hammock noted that he will follow-up
on the question with John Cookinham, System Chief Financial Officer.

Page 3 of 77

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Wednesday, December 11, 2013
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
A. FY2014 Quality and Performance Improvement Plan (Attachment #2)
This item was taken out of order.
Dr. Krishna Das, System Director of Quality, Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation, reviewed the
presentation regarding the proposed FY2014 Quality and Performance Improvement Plan.
The presentation contained information on the following subjects: Regulatory Framework; Hospital-Wide
Quality Improvement and Patient Safety (HQuIPS) Committee; Governance-Reporting; Patient Safety;
Sentinel and Adverse Events; Performance Improvement Requirements; Addressing High-Risk, High
Volume Areas; EMS Committee Reports; Key Indicators-Inpatient, Outpatient, Nursing; Department
Indicators; and Use of Data in Performance Improvement. The Committee reviewed and discussed the
information.
Chairman Collens inquired whether the Committee will be seeing the chart in this form going forward, with
an indication in each of the boxes. Dr. Das responded affirmatively. She stated that, although staff have
been following the indicators, they have not been charting them in a graphical way that makes the direction
of the activities very explicit.
Dr. Das noted that, on page sixteen of the presentation, she will need to submit a correction to the plan – the
Trauma Department has an additional indicator of negative laparotomy rate, as well as an indicator for time
to operating room for trauma cases.
Following the presentation, Chairman Collens stated that this is a very impressive start for a program of
reporting to the Board. This plan underscores the commitment that everyone has to quality; he would
expect that by communicating this commitment, not only within the hospital generally but also to patients, it
might very well impact the score in patient satisfaction, as well.
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved to approve the proposed FY2014
Quality and Performance Improvement Plan.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, November 20, 2013
This item was taken out of order.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Lerner, moved to accept the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of November 20, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. **Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #3)
This item was taken out of order.

Page 4 of 77

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Wednesday, December 11, 2013
Page 5

IV.

Action Items
C. **Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (continued)
The Committee was informed of a revision to an initial appointment included on page one of the materials –
the proposed period for the appointment of Dr. Salman Khan was changed from a two year appointment to a
one year appointment.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Lerner, moved to approve the Medical Staff
Appointments/Reappointments/Changes, as amended.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Any items listed under Sections IV, V and VI

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees
i. Provident Hospital of Cook County
ii. John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

Dr. Aaron Hamb, Medical Director of Provident Hospital of Cook County, indicated that there was no report
to be provided at this time; he spoke on behalf of Dr. Pierre Wakim, President of the Executive Medical
Staff (EMS) of Provident Hospital of Cook County.
Dr. Ozuru Ukoha, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, presented his
report. He stated that the EMS met the previous evening. At that meeting, Dr. Das presented the FY2014
Quality and Performance Improvement Plan; it was approved unanimously.
At last month’s Quality and Patient Safety Committee meeting, Dr. Ukoha had said that in order for the
medical staff to play its part in the system-wide attention to quality and patient safety, it would need to begin
with a framework. This framework is being created through the remodeling of the hospital’s quality
committee. Changes to the Bylaws of the Medical Staff are being proposed to change the name, function,
composition and duties of the hospital’s committee, to ultimately be able to provide the information that the
System Board will need going forward. The proposed revisions to the Bylaws will go to the medical staff at
large for their approval; following that, they will be presented to the System Board for approval.

VI.

Closed Session Items
A. **Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)
The Committee did not recess the regular session and convene in closed session.

Page 5 of 77

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Wednesday, December 11, 2013
Page 6

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Collens declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Lewis M. Collens, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

1

Follow-up: response regarding question of whether there is a duty to bargain relating to staff influenza
vaccinations. Page 3.

Page 6 of 77

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 7 of 77

 CERMAK HEALTH SERVICES

CORRECTIONAL HEALTH SERVICES AT
COOK COUNTY JAIL

AND THE
JUVENILE TEMPORARY DETENTION CENTER

Board of Directors
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
December 11th, 2013

 

Page 8 of 77

Mission Statement
 Provide constitutionally required quality, timely and cost 

efficient medical services in accordance with acceptable 
community standards accreditation and regulatory
community standards, accreditation and regulatory 
requirements
 Early detection and prevention of communicable diseases

2
Page 9 of 77

 Overview of Services: Cermak
 Collective Responsibility: Cook County Sheriff, Department 

of Facilities Management, and Cermak Health Services
 Provided on 96 acre campus of Cook County Jail
 Current average daily population > 10,000
 100,000
100,000+ intake screenings annually
intake screenings annually

 5% County Care participants enrolled during intake process

 Providing on‐site care (173,000 combined visits annually)
 Urgent care
Urgent care
 Infirmary (not a hospital)
 Primary care and specialty care clinics
 Diagnostics
 Pharmacy Services
3
Page 10 of 77

 Cermak at JTDC
 Average daily population = 295
 Medical, Nursing, Dental, Medical Observation Unit, 

Medication administration and Health Service Requests
Medication administration and Health Service Requests
 National Commission on Correctional Healthcare accreditation 

since December 2012
 Work plan for 2014:
 Governor Quinn signed House Bill HB2404 to include 17 year 

olds, projected increase in population by 30%.
,p j
p p
y
 Begin Electronic Medical Records Project
 Consultation Room
 Pharmacy services: blister packs
Pharmacy services: blister packs
4
Page 11 of 77

 Cermak Health Services:  trends
Intake Assessments

* 2013 clinic visits annualized
5
Page 12 of 77

 A ti it
Activity

9500
140000
9400

Year

Budgeted 
Budgeted
Expenses

120000

9300

100000

2010

9200

$41,278,000

9100

80000

2011

$41,238,000

9000
60000
8900

2012

$40,080,000

40000
8800

2013

$40,700,000

20000

8700

0

2014

8600
2010

$46,600,000

2011

2012

I k  S
Intake Screenings
i

Cli i /U
Clinic/Urgent Care Visits
 C  Vi i

Infirmary Patient Days

Average Inmate Census

6
Page 13 of 77

 Activity (continued)
 Chronic Disease Management

 Opiate Withdrawal: approximately 550 inmates are treated monthly 

y p
for withdrawal symptoms
 Methadone Program: An average of 98 inmates are registered in the 
Methadone Program monthly
 Varying levels of care
T
f
 Transfers
 Average daily census of inmates at Stroger or outlying hospitals = 20
 Average daily transport of inmates to Stroger Emergency 
Department 
Department = 5
5
 Average daily transport of inmates to Specialty Care Clinic (Stroger, 
Core, Fantus) = 18

7
Page 14 of 77

 Residential Treatment Unit
 Access to 24/7 Nursing (Intermediate Care)
 Dose by Dose Medication
 Adds 979 additional beds for Intermediate Levels of care
Adds 979 additional beds for Intermediate Levels of care
 Male: 274 medical, 274 mental health, 157 detox
 Female: 274 medical and mental health
 Intake Screening and Medical/Mental Health Assessments
I t k S
i
d M di l/M t l H lth A
t

8
Page 15 of 77

 Nursing Care
Nursing Care
 Access to Health Care
 Process 6500+ Health Service Requests Monthly
Process 6500+ Health Service Requests Monthly
 Inmates must be seen by a nurse for all symptom based complaints within 48 hours of 

receipt of health service request form
 >60% will require additional medical, dental, or mental health intervention

 Daily Bed Control (130 weekly interventions)
 Increases patient safety
 Housing movement based on medical and mental health orders for transfer in and out of 

infirmary or other housing need
infirmary
or other housing need
 Additionally, incorrectly housed inmates identified by nursing using a query based on 
medical and mental health classification
 Nursing coordinates with CCDOC transfer of these inmates to appropriate housing

 Medication Administration
 On average, 50% or 5000 patients require medication



1750 patients receive dose‐by‐dose medication administered by a nurse on the tier
3000 ti t
3000 patients self‐administer a weekly supply of medications transported to the patient by the 
lf d i i t
kl
l f
di ti
t
t d t th
ti t b th
Medication Delivery Team
9
Page 16 of 77

 Pharmacy Services
 Prescription Volume
Prescription Volume
 630,000 New prescriptions annually
 5,781,000 Doses filled annually

 Distribution Methods
 Nurse administered: daily = 7,750 doses 
 Detainee self
Detainee self‐administered
administered medication: number of 
medication: number of

prescriptions daily = 800
 31 Automated Dispensing Cabinets:  number of doses 
dispensed monthly = 5800 
dispensed monthly 
5800
 Other Services:
 Opioid Treatment Program (Methadone)
 Anticoagulation Clinics and monitoring
A i
l i Cli i
d
i i
10
Page 17 of 77

 Mental Health Services
 40% of females and 20% of males at intake have positive 

mental health findings
 Growing Mental Health Caseload: 2010 = 1100 patients, 

currently nearly 2000 out of 10,000
currently nearly 2000 out of 10,000
 Varying levels of care

11
Page 18 of 77

 M t l H lth S i
Mental Health Services
Programming Hours Per Patient Per Week: Intermediate Care
16

14

Department of Justice Target

# of Programm
ming Hours

12

10

8

6

4

2

0
Series1

2011

2012

Jan 13
Jan‐13

Feb 13
Feb‐13

Mar 13
Mar‐13

Apr 13
Apr‐13

May 13
May‐13

Jun 13
Jun‐13

Jul 13
Jul‐13

Aug 13
Aug‐13

Sep 13
Sep‐13

5

10.15

10.1

10.4

10.2

8.6

10.7

11.5

11.2

15.2

14.9

12
Page 19 of 77

 Infection Control
 Monitor jail compound for outbreaks of communicable diseases
Monitor jail compound for outbreaks of communicable diseases
 Conducts annual health maintenance for Tb screenings on an average of 

250 detainees per month with 100% capture rate
 Provides 67 Infection Control training sessions annually, reaching >3,000 
Provides 67 Infection Control training sessions annually reaching >3 000
Cook County Department of Corrections Officers
 Activity:
 Flu Shots Administered: 4,551
Flu Shots Administered: 4 551 (January 2012 –
(January 2012 March 2013)
March 2013)
 Employee Annual Tb Screening 100% compliance reaching 650 employees
 Ectoparasite assessments: 380 (January – August 2013)
 Acute gastroenteritis and influenza‐like illness assessments: 125
Acute gastroenteritis and influenza like illness assessments: 125 (January –
(January

August 2013)
 Hepatitis B Vaccine Grant with CDPH: vaccinated 755 detainees since 
/ /
07/15/2013

13
Page 20 of 77

 Department of Justice: Agreed Order
 Collective Responsibility: Cook County Sheriff, Department of 

Facilities Management, and Cermak Health Services
 Agreement signed 2010
Agreement signed 2010
 48 separate provisions 
 Medical Monitoring
 9 provisions are in Substantial Compliance
 12 provisions are in Partial Compliance

 Mental
Mental Health Monitoring
Health Monitoring
 1 provisions are in Compliance
 12 provisions are in Substantial Compliance
 24 provisions are in Partial Compliance
24
ii
i P ti l C
li
14
Page 21 of 77

 Accomplishments and Areas of
Accomplishments and Areas of 
Improvement 2013
 Medical:

 Mental Health:

 Intake Screening

 Intake Screenings

 Medical Facilities
Medical Facilities

 Programing hours increase
P
i h
i

 Staff, Training, Supervision 







and Leadership
Urgent Care
Urgent Care
Record Keeping
Mortality Reviews
Access To Care 
Acute Care Infirmary
Medication Administration 
Process

 Timely and clinically 





appropriate treatment
24/7 Psychiatric Coverage
Crisis Services
Suicide Prevention Policy 
S i id P
ti P li
and Committee
Suicide Risk Assessments 
and Precautions
15

Page 22 of 77

 Moving Forward: 2014 Goals
 Structures:
 Operational implementation and staffing of the Residential 
Treatment Unit (Intermediate Medical/Mental Health Services)
(
)
 Processes:
 Full implementation of Electronic Medication Administration 
Record
 Decrease off site movement by securing specialized clinical 
services, i.e., Orthopedic Services
 Population Health Management
Population Health Management
 Outcomes:
 Continued progress in achieving substantial compliance of the 
Department of Justice Agreed Order
16
Page 23 of 77

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 24 of 77

 Quality Assessment and 
Quality
Assessment and
Improvement Plan FY 2014:
OVERVIEW

CCHHS Board of Directors
Q lit
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
d P ti t S f t C
itt
December 11th, 2013
1
Page 25 of 77

 Presentation Goals
• Provide the regulatory framework guiding the 
g
y
g
g
development of a quality plan
• Describe the structure and reporting 
responsibilities of quality committees
responsibilities of quality committees
• Describe the requirements and details of the 
patient safety program, including specific
patient safety program, including specific 
indicators and targets
• Describe required quality reporting and priorities 
f
for performance improvement
f
i
• Discuss the preferred approach to data handling 
and clinical performance improvement
and clinical performance improvement 
2
Page 26 of 77

 Regulatory Framework
CMS CoP: The hospital must develop, implement, and maintain an effective, ongoing,         
hospital‐wide, data driven quality assessment and performance improvement program. 
LD.01.03.01
The governing body is ultimately accountable for the safety and quality of care, treatment, 
and services.
MS.05.01.01
The organized medical staff has a leadership role in organization performance 
improvement activities to improve quality of care, treatment, and services and patient 
safety.
f
LD.04.04.01
Leaders establish priorities for performance improvement. 
LD.04.04.05
The hospital has an organization‐wide, integrated patient safety program within its 
performance improvement activities.
p
p
LD.03.01.01
Leaders create and maintain a culture of safety and quality throughout the hospital.
Page 27 of 77

3

 Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and Patient 
Safety (HQuIPS) Committee*
Infection 
Control

Nursing 
Specific 
Indicators/ 
OR and ED

Environmen
t of Care
t of Care 
Committee

Ambulatory 
Indicators

Committee 
on Cancer

Patient 
Satisfaction 
and 
Grievances

Core 
Measures

Hospital Quality 
Improvement and 
Patient Safety
Patient Safety 
Committee
Medical 
Records

Critical Care 
and 
resuscitatio
n

Department 
Quality 
Reviews

Surgical
Surgical 
Function 
Review

Department Chairs
Key Administration

Blood Bank 
and 
Transfusion
s

Hospital 
Oversight 
/
Committee/ 
M&Ms

Representation:
Chair‐
Chair‐ appointed by EMS 
president + COO

Drug 
&Formulary
// Adverse 
Drug Events

•Chief Nursing Officer
•Executive Medical Director
•COO
•Finance
•IT 
•Quality

Ex Officio Members

* For Stroger Hospital. Provident and ACHN committees have similar structure
Page 28 of 77

4

 Governance: Reporting
Board of Directors 
CCHHS

Board QPS 
Board
QPS
Committee

Executive Medical 
Staff Stroger 
Hospital*

Quality Committee 
Stroger Hospital

Cermak Health 
Services Quality 
Committee

Executive Medical 
Staff Provident 
Hospital*

ACHN Quality 
Committee

Provident Quality 
Committee

* Reporting may occur through the Chief Quality Officer, the Executive Medical Director, the Affiliate Chief Operating Officer, or directly by 
5
the President of the respective Medical Staff or their designees.
Page 29 of 77

 Patient Safety
• Address all adverse events and sentinel events in a 
th
thorough and systematic fashion
h d t
ti f hi
• Address high risk, high volume areas
• Safety priorities for 2014:
Safety priorities for 2014:
–
–
–
–

Discharge transitions
Procedural safety, particularly outside the OR
M di ti
Medication safety; adverse drug reactions
f t d
d
ti
Critical laboratory and pathology results, focusing on 
timely reporting of malignant pathology

• Responsibility is allocated to committees, departments 
and task forces
• Hospital must measure and improve culture of safety
Hospital must measure and improve culture of safety
6
Page 30 of 77

 Sentinel and Adverse Events
• All serious events will be referred immediately to the 
respective facility leadership and departmental oversight
respective facility leadership and departmental oversight 
committees
• All sentinel events will have urgent (within 7 days) root 
cause analysis (RCA) using the approach outlined by the
cause analysis (RCA) using the approach outlined by the 
Joint Commission 
• A ‘just culture’ algorithm will be utilized to determine 
accountability in cases of adverse outcomes
bili i
f d
• Results are reported to the Hospital Quality Committee 
and the medical staff
• The oversight committee or RCA committee will direct 
performance improvement activities as required
• The oversight committees will make referrals to peer 
The oversight committees will make referrals to peer
review committees as required
7
Page 31 of 77

 Performance Improvement Requirements
JOINT COMMISSION
JOINT COMMISSION
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Operative procedures
Discrepancies between preop and postop
Discrepancies between preop
and postop diagnoses
Adverse events related to moderate or deep sedation
Use of blood transfusions & transfusion reactions
Results of resuscitation & response to changes in a patient’s 
condition
Behavior management/ restraint use
Behavior management/ restraint use
Significant medication errors and adverse drug reactions
Fall reduction activities
O
Organ procurement conversion rate
t
i
t
Patient perceptions of treatment
Staff opinions, needs & perception of risk to individuals
p
,
p
p
8
Page 32 of 77

 Address High Risk, High Volume Areas
• Discharge Transitions
– Medication reconciliation
M di ti
ili ti
– Patient education
– Post discharge appointments

• Procedural safety
Procedural safety
– Presedation assessment
– Time outs

• Medication safety
Medication safety
– Increase reporting of ADRs
– Use of trigger tools for proactive identification of potential events
– FMEA for medication administration process
p

• Reporting of malignant pathology
– Monthly reporting of all malignant pathology and cytology
– Feedback to clinicians 
9
Page 33 of 77

 EMS Committee Reports
STROGER HOSPITAL
STROGER HOSPITAL
Committee

Indicators

Data Source

Reporting
Frequency

Blood Bank & 
T
Transfusion
f i

Transfusion
R ti
Reactions

Red Cells ‐‐
A
Appropriate
i t

Platelets ‐‐
A
Appropriate
i t

Chart review

Biannually

Critical Care & 
Resuscitation

Ventilator 
complication rate

Restraint prevalence 
& complications

Resuscitation 
Results

Inf Control data
Nursing review
Chart review

Biannually

Drug Usage Evaluation
Drug Usage

## ADRs reported 
ADRs reported
monthly

Allergy alerts 
Allergy
alerts
overridden by user

Drug lab alerts 
Drug‐lab
alerts
overridden

Incident Reporting 
Reporting
system; Cerner

Quarterly

Environment of Care

Fire Safety

Integrity Fire Doors

Hospital
Environment

EOC rounds

Quarterly

Infection Control

CAUTI rate

CLABSI rate

Handwashing
compliance

Infection control dept

Biannually

Medical Education

Medication 
reconciliation 
performed

Enunciate knowledge 
re DC safety

Satisfaction with 
doctors

Cerner
HCAHPS
Survey

Biannually

Medical Information
Medical Information

DC summary
DC
summary
completed 30 days

Operative notes 
Operative
notes
completed

Admission H&P 
Admission
H&P
signed 48 hours

Cerner reports
Cerner reports

Quarterly

Operating Room

Intra‐operative
Deaths

Reoperation in 7 days

On time starts

Chart reviews
Incident reports

Quarterly

Surgical
g
Function 
Review

Discrepancies pre 
p
p
and post op 
diagnoses

%
% Malignant
g
Path 
reported in 7 days

%
% PAP smears F/U 
/
in one month

Lab system reports
y
p

Quarterlyy
Q

10
Page 34 of 77

 Key Indicators
• Hospitalwide indicators describe areas of focus for 2014
• Includes type and source of data, and baseline and target 
performance
• Reflects priorities:
Reflects priorities:
– Access to care
– Quality of care
– Patient satisfaction

• Will be reported quarterly to quality committees and the 
Board
• Full set of indicators is as reflected in CMS reporting 
requirements and described in the Quality Plan
11
Page 35 of 77

 Key Indicators: Inpatient Services
Indicator

Target
Performance

Baseline
Performance

Data Source

Reporting
Interval

ED Registration
ED
R i t ti
to Discharge 
(outpatient)

240 i t
240 minutes

347 i t
347 minutes

Cerner 
C
Lighthouse

Q t l
Quarterly

ED Registration
ED
Registration
to Inpatient 
(inpatients)

480 minutes
480 minutes

620 minutes
620 minutes

Cerner 
Cerner
Lighthouse

Quarterly

Core Measures
Core
Measures
HF, MI, PN and 
SCIP*

100%

97%, 99%, 90%,
97%,
99%, 90%, Cerner 
Cerner
98%
Lighthouse

Quarterly

Patient 
Satisfaction:
Recommend
Hospital

71%

61%

Quarterly

HCAHPS

HF=heart failure, MI=myocardial infarction or heart attack, PN=pneumonia, 
SCIP=surgical care improvement program
Page 36 of 77

12

 Key Indicators: Outpatient
Indicator

Target
Performance

Baseline
Performance

Data Source

Reporting
Interval

Ease of moving 
through the clinic 
‘ d’
‘good’

75%

63%

HCAHPS

Quarterly

Ease of reaching 
75%
clinic on the phone 
‘good’
good

59%

HCAHPS

Quarterly

Children with UTD  > 71%
immunization at 24 
months

68%

CMApp

Quarterly

Diabetics with A1C  < 29%
> 9%

24%

CMApp

Quarterly

13
Page 37 of 77

 Key Indicators: Nursing
Indicator

Target
Performance

Baseline
Performance

Data Source

Reporting
Interval

Communication
with nurses 
‘ d’
‘good’

73%

63%

HCAHPS 
survey

Quarterly

Fall rate/ falls
with injury

Decrease by 
25%

Cerner/IView
Chart review

Quarterly

Hospital 
H
i l
acquired 
pressure ulcers

Decrease by 
D
b
25%

Cerner/IView
C
/IVi
Chart review

Q
Quarterly
l

14
Page 38 of 77

 Departmental Indicators
Department

Indicators

Data Source(s) Frequency

Anesthesia

•SCIP measure: VTE prophylaxis
•Handoff to PACU staff
to PACU staff
•Moderate sedation assessment and 
complications

Cerner Lighthouse
Cerner IView
Cerner IView
Cerner Report

Quarterly

Emergency Med

•Left without being seen
Registration to
to provider (outpt)
provider (outpt)
•Registration
•Registration to decision to admit

Cerner Lighthouse

Quarterly

Family Med

•Heart Failure measure
•Pneumonia measure
•Med records‐ admission and DC 
completion

Cerner Lighthouse

Quarterly

Internal Med

•Heart Failure measure
•Pneumonia measure
•Med records‐ admission and DC 
completion

Cerner Lighthouse

Quarterly

Obstetrics/
Gynecology

•Caesarean section rate
•Elective delivery 37‐39 weeks
•Breast feeding initiation

OB database

Quarterly

15
Page 39 of 77

 Departmental Indicators, contd.
Department

Indicators

Data Source

Frequency

Pathology

•Turnaround time – inpatient
•Critical results reported –
Cii l
l
d outpatient
i
•Critical results reported ‐‐ inpatient

Lab system

Quarterly

Pediatrics

•Mortality in v. low birthweight infants
•Pediatric immunization rates
•Appropriate asthma care
•Appropriate asthma care

VON network
CMApp
Cerner

Quarterly

Psychiatry

•Outpatient clinic show rates
•Completion of postnatal depression 
screen

TBD

Quarterly

Radiology

•Critical result reporting
•Contrast: abdominal CT
•Contrast: thoracic CT

TBD

Quarterly

Surgery

•SCIP: antibiotic choice
SCIP tibi ti h i
•SCIP: glucose control
•H&P completion 48 hours
•Operative note completion 30 days

Cerner Lighthouse
C
Li hth
Cerner reports

Q t l
Quarterly

T
Trauma

•Organ procurement
•Organ
procurement
•TBD

Gift of Hope
Gift of Hope

Quarterly

16
Page 40 of 77

 Departmental Indicators, contd.
• Each department reviews its performance on a range 
p
p
g
of indicators under the leadership of the Chair of the 
Department
• Departments may have additional indicators which are 
D
t
t
h
dditi
l i di t
hi h
reported biannually to the Quality Committee
• All departments will report compliance with clinical 
All departments will report compliance with clinical
contracts affecting their department
• All departments will report OPPE and FPPE for 
inclusion in personnel files
• All departments will report results of oversight 
activities as noted below
activities as noted below
17
Page 41 of 77

 Use of Data in Performance Improvement
• Current evaluation methods:
• Plan‐Do‐Check‐Act PI method
Plan‐Do‐Check‐Act PI method
• Data display – dashboard format
• Proposed
Proposed evaluation methods:
evaluation methods:
• Data display – run charts to show improvement over time
• Performance improvement activity is reported to the Quality 
Committee 
Committee
• Proposed improvement methodology: transition to lean/six sigma
• Intermediate steps: introduce concept of variation and statistical 
process control to display of QI data
process control to display of QI data
• Increase staff training in lean/six sigma concepts
• Use selected projects to apply concepts

18
Page 42 of 77

 Questions

Page 43 of 77

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
 

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital Quality Plan 
Outline 
 
I.
II.
III.

IV.
V.

VI.
VII.

 Introduction 
 
Background, Scope and Purpose 
 
Governance and Leadership 
a. Role of the Governing Board 
b. Role of the Executive Medical Staff 
c. Role of the Hospitals Quality Committees 
d. Role of the Quality Department and the Chief Quality Officer 
 
Transparency 
 
Patient Safety 
a. Adverse and Sentinel Events  
b. Event Awareness and Notification 
c. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events 
i. Referral for Evaluation 
ii. Root Cause Analysis 
iii. Just Culture 
d. Event Resolution and Action Plans 
e. Proactive Risk Assessments 
i. Medical Staff Committees Which Measure and Improve Patient Safety 
(a) Blood Bank Committee 
(b) Critical Care and Resuscitation Committees 
(c) Drug and Formulary and Drug Use Evaluation Committees 
(d) Environment of Care Committee 
(e) Infection Control Committee 
(f) Operating Room Committee 
(g) Surgical Function Review Committee 
ii. Failure Modes and Effects Analysis 
iii. Priorities Patient Safety Projects 
f. Culture of Safety 
i. Assessment 
ii. Intervention 
 
Patient Complaints and Patient Satisfaction 
 
Quality Metrics 
a. Description 
b. Data Abstraction 
c. Performance Targets 
d. PQRS‐ Physician Quality Reporting System 
 

Page 44 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
VIII.

IX.
X.
XI.
XII.

 
 
 

System Quality Priorities 
a. Inpatient Metrics 
b. Outpatient and Population Based Metrics 
c. Nursing Specific Indicators 
d.  Medical Staff and Quality Priorities 
 
Data Acquisition and Analysis 
 
Performance Improvement 
 
Confidentiality 
 
APPENDICES 
a. Appendix A:  CMS Regulation for Quality Plan 
b. Appendix B:  Joint Commission Leadership Standards 
c. Appendix C:  Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards 
d. Appendix D:  Quality Reporting Structure  
e. Appendix E:  Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee 
f. Appendix F:  Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events  
g. Appendix G:  Sentinel Events (Joint Commission) 
h. Appendix H:  Never Events (NQF)   
i. Appendix I:   Med Staff Committees 
j. Appendix J:  IQR metrics 
k. Appendix K:  OQR Metrics 
l. Appendix L:  System Quality Priorities 
m. Appendix M:  Departmental Quality Indicators 
n. ATTACHMENT:  Hospital Inpatient Quality Reporting Program Measures 
 

 

2

 

 

Page 45 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS 
Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 2014 
 
 
I.

II.

Purpose:  The Mission of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) is to 
provide a comprehensive program of quality healthcare, with respect and dignity, to all 
residents of Cook County, regardless of their ability to pay.  To support this mission, the 
System develops a Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan for each 
affiliate, to specify the approach to quality improvement and to enunciate achievement 
targets for performance improvement, and to assure approval of the plan by the leaders of  
the organization including the Board of Directors and the Executive Medical Staff.  The 
purpose of this document is to set forth the Quality Assessment and Performance 
Improvement Plan for John H. Stroger, Jr. (‘Stroger’) Hospital for FY 2014. 
 
Background and Scope: A comprehensive quality improvement plan supports the Cook 
County Health and Hospitals System’s and John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital’s goals to provide 
excellent, high quality patient care and outlines the specific mechanisms to achieve this 
goal.  The plan is a requirement under the Conditions of Participation of the Centers for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) (APPENDIX A) and fulfills specific requirements of The 
Joint Commission (APPENDIX B and APPENDIX C), the accrediting organization for the 
Hospital and the System.  The plan is designed to be approved by the governing body of 
CCHHS which is the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of its committee on 
Quality and Patient Safety, and upon approval by the Executive Medical Staff of Stroger 
Hospital and System Leadership.  By approving the plan, the Board of Directors, the System 
Leadership and the Executive Medical Staff are: 
a. Overseeing the quality and patient safety activities within the organization 
b. Ensuring that the organization takes a proactive approach to planning for 
patient safety and quality patient care 
c. Ensuring that an integrated safety program exists within the organization 
d. Setting priorities for performance improvement, evaluating the performance 
improvement practices in the organization and ensuring that performance 
improvement strategies and methodologies are implemented throughout the 
organization 
e. Ensuring data collection and monitoring in diverse areas as specified below 
f. Ensuring that the hospital analyzes and compares the data it collects using 
statistical techniques and that data and other information are used 
systematically for decision making. 
 
This plan reflects  institutional patient safety and quality priorities for FY 2014 for Stroger 
Hospital and provides substantial guidance for quality priorities for all entities within the 
health System.  The written plan allows the hospital’s Executive Medical Staff and the Board 
of Directors to ensure that the program reflects the complexity of the hospital’s 
organization and services and involves all departments and services. The plan enumerates 
the indicators related to improved health outcomes and describes the hospital’s process to 
prevent and reduce medical errors. This plan provides direction for the ongoing hospital‐
wide, data driven quality assessment and performance improvement program.   
3

 

 

Page 46 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

III.

 
The structure of the Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan is derived 
from the Triple Aim enunciated by the national quality strategy within the Affordable Care 
Act.  This directs health care providers to improve the care for individuals, assess and 
improve the care of populations and to lower per capita costs in health care.  In addition, as 
outlined by the Institute of Medicine Report, ‘To Err is Human’, quality improvement efforts 
in health care should ensure that patient care is safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable 
and patient centered.  CCHHS and Stroger Hospital are committed to addressing all of these 
dimensions of quality within the Quality Improvement Plan. 
 
At CCHHS and Stroger Hospital, quality assessment and performance improvement 
functions are divided into three major domains.  Thus the Quality Improvement plan is 
divided into sections to address each of the following: 
a. Patient safety involves the recognition, assessment and mitigation of adverse 
patient events, including sentinel events, and involves retroactive as well as 
proactive risk assessment (described further below).   
b. Quality assessment and reporting of quality metrics include the ‘core measures’ 
or process measures required for reporting to CMS and the Joint Commission; 
outcome measures such as mortality, readmission rates, and rates of hospital 
acquired conditions; and measures of patient satisfaction with care.   
c. Performance improvement efforts focus on high risk, high volume activities and 
problem prone areas and set specific performance targets for these areas.  
Performance improvement projects may arise from tracking medical errors and 
adverse patient events which require corrective actions for risk mitigation.  
Interdisciplinary processes are used for performance improvement as described 
below.  After implementing improvement projects, the performance is tracked 
over time to assess the sustainability of improvement efforts.  
 
Governance and Leadership: Oversight of the quality plan for CCHHS and Stroger Hospital is 
provided by its governing body, the Board of Directors; by the medical staff through its 
elected representatives, the Executive Medical Staff Committee; and by the leadership of 
CCHHS.  The plan is to be approved by the Quality Committee of the hospital known as the 
Hospital Wide Quality Improvement Committee;  by the Executive Medical Staff Committee 
of the Hospital; by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee and the Board of Directors of 
the CCHHS. Results of patient safety assessments, quality metrics and results of 
performance improvement projects are also reported to the Executive Medical Staff and the 
Board of Directors in the same manner as described in APPENDIX D.   
 
Implementation of the Quality Plan is the responsibility of the Department of Quality and 
Patient Safety led by the Chief Quality Officer and executed in collaboration with the 
Hospital Quality Committee, departmental quality committees, hospital and system 
leadership and the System Departments of Risk Management, Legal, and Compliance. 
 
The Hospital Wide Quality Improvement Committee is to be renamed the Hospital Quality 
and Patient Safety Committee through an amendment in the Medical Staff bylaws and will 
serve the dual function of oversight of the Quality Program as well as the Patient Safety 
4

 

 

Page 47 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

IV.

V.

Program.  The composition and leadership of this committee is presented in APPENDIX E. 
This committee meets monthly and reviews all quality metrics, departmental and 
committee quality data, and prioritizes performance improvement projects.  The committee 
chair or designee reports the activities of the committee to the Executive Medical Staff on a 
monthly basis and the Medical Staff approves the minutes and activities of the committee 
prior to presentation to the Board of Directors. 
 
Transparency:  CCHHS is committed to transparency in the abstraction and reporting of 
quality metrics. These metrics, together with the performance targets set by the leadership, 
are to be disseminated widely among leadership and staff and will be available for viewing 
internally on the CCHHS website.  In FY 2014 there will be efforts to develop the CCHHS 
public website to allow the reporting of quality data for public review.  
 
Patient Safety Program:  The Stroger Hospital Quality Improvement and Patient Safety 
Committee (‘Quality Committee’) is the multidisciplinary committee (APPENDIX E) which 
provides guidance and leadership for the Hospital’s patient safety program under the 
direction of the Patient Safety Officer.  The Quality Committee receives reports from 
medical staff committees as well as of reports of adverse and sentinel events. The Quality 
Committee determines the priorities for corrective action plans or performance 
improvement projects arising from the evaluation of such events as well patient safety 
hazards identified by the medical staff committees which assess such risks.  
 
a. Adverse and Sentinel Events:  The definition, reporting and evaluation of adverse events 
are dictated by regulation and hospital policy.  The initial reporting process is outlined in 
APPENDIX F.  All significant events are evaluated by departmental and hospital wide 
oversight committees. Root cause analyses are performed for all sentinel events as 
defined by hospital policy and the Joint Commission (APPENDIX G).  Other serious 
adverse events are defined by the National Quality Foundation (APPENDIX H). These are 
known as ‘Never Events’ and may have serious consequences to the health and 
outcomes of patients under the care of the hospital.  All reported incidents and adverse 
events are tracked, analyzed and preventive actions are identified and instituted 
committees. The results of investigations and recommendations for performance 
improvement are presented to the Quality Committee which prioritizes performance 
improvement activities and monitors progress toward the achievement of the plans.  All 
significant events and the results of the evaluation of such events are reported to the 
Executive Medical Staff. 
 
b. Event Awareness and Notification:  Adverse events may be reported using a variety of 
systems.   
i. Electronic event reporting system: Electronic reporting systems such as MERS, 
function within a PSO (patient safety organization), and the events reported into 
this system have protection from disclosure in litigation; this feature allows 
honest and timely reporting which supports efforts to evaluate and mitigate 
potential risks. 
ii. Phone calls: confidential phone reports may be made by care providers to the 
Quality Improvement/Patient Safety department, to Risk Management, or to 
5

 

 

Page 48 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
the Executive Medical Director.  These reports are also entered into the event 
reporting system by quality and risk and this allows tracking of all reported 
events. 
iii. Departmental reports: Medical and Nursing departments have internal review 
processes to assess the quality of care provided by members of the respective 
department.  This includes oversight activities, case conferences, mortality and 
morbidity reviews,  reviews performed for OPPE or FPPE (ongoing or focused 
professional practice evaluation), or evaluations conducted by the Medical Staff 
Peer Review Committee. 
iv. Referrals from outside agencies: Although rare, events may be identified during 
review by the QIO (Quality Improvement Organization) affiliated with the 
hospital, or by state or national regulators (IDPH; Illinois Department of Public 
Health, CMS; Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, The Joint Commission).  
All of the above events, regardless of the method of identification, are reported 
internally as described in APPENDIX F and evaluated as described below. 
 
c. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events:  The management of adverse and sentinel 
events is described in hospital policy.  Serious events are evaluated expeditiously and 
thoroughly with a goal to understand the contributory factors and to mitigate the risk to 
of future events. 
i. Referral for Evaluation:  All reported adverse events are reviewed by Patient 
Safety staff to determine the severity of the event and the urgency of 
evaluation.  Stroger Hospital is committed to performing a timely, thorough and 
credible root cause analysis (RCA) on all sentinel events and ‘Never Events’, as 
well as all adverse events which do not fit either criteria but are deemed to 
require further investigation.  This determination is made by the Executive 
Medical Director with the input of the Hospital’s oversight committee or the 
Quality Committee. Events which do not require an RCA are referred to 
departmental oversight committees for further investigation. Results of 
departmental oversight reviews are presented to the Hospital Wide Oversight 
committee which then reports its findings to the Quality Committee. 
ii. Root Cause Analysis:  The root cause analysis includes participation by hospital 
leadership, and the individuals most closely involved with the event or with the 
systems which contributed to the event.  The framework for the RCA is the one 
developed by the Joint Commission; focuses on systems, and not individuals; 
evaluates both system and human factors which contributed to the event; 
progresses from special causes to more common causes in the organization; 
and, is exhaustive in asking ‘Why?’ serially and exhaustively to identify a 
complete set of risk points and potential contributors to the event. 
iii. Just Culture and Accountability:  Stroger Hospital uses a ‘Just Culture’ approach 
to determine the level of individual accountability for adverse events.  The focus 
is on system factors but if there is an issue of individual accountability it will be 
referred to the management of that individual’s department as appropriate. 
 
d. Event Resolution and Action Plans:  The RCA should identify a series of changes in 
systems and processes to reduce the risk of recurrence of similar and should result in an 
6

 

 

Page 49 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
action plan. The action plan will identify the person(s) responsible for the 
implementation of the plan, and define measures of success for the plan. Responsibility 
for monitoring the effectiveness of the action plan is delegated to the Quality 
Committee. 
 
e. Proactive Risk Assessments: Stroger Hospital conducts proactive risk assessments in 
several high risk areas.  Some of these assessments are conducted by the Medical Staff 
committees which evaluate specific clinical processes, as listed below (also, APPENDIX 
I).   One high risk process is selected annually for an in‐depth analysis of risk points 
utilizing the methods of failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA).  Several additional  
high‐risk, high‐volume areas are targeted by the hospital for special projects in FY 2014 
and these are described below. 
i. Medical Staff Committee Which Measure and Improve Patient Safety: Medical 
Staff committees are required to collect and report data related to high‐risk 
processes in patient care.  These committees define priorities for process 
improvement and engage in improvement activities which are reported to the 
Quality Committee. 
1. Blood Bank Committee:  collects data on the appropriateness of the use 
of blood and blood products and on all reported and confirmed 
transfusion reactions.  The Blood Bank committee is prioritizing the 
safety of ordering and administration of blood products through a 
process redesign in collaboration with Nursing, Blood Bank staff and the 
Information Technology (IT) departments. 
2. Critical Care and Resuscitation Committees:  the Critical Care committee 
collects data on diverse indicators related to intensive care.  FY 2014 
priorities for this committee include standardizing the approach to 
prevention of ventilator associated complications (VACs), monitoring 
restraint prevalence and improving the reporting of resuscitation 
results.  This committee also plans and monitors the responses to 
changes in patients’ conditions (‘rapid response’) and is engaged in 
process redesign efforts to optimize the rapid response process. 
3. Drug and Formulary and Drug Use Evaluation Committees: recognition 
and mitigation of ADRs (adverse drug reactions) and medication errors 
is a major safety priority for the hospital.  The Drug Use Evaluation 
Committee monitors the reported ADRs and conducts proactive risk 
assessment using indicators within the electronic medical record. In FY 
2014 the scope of this committee will be expanded  to include 
additional risk assessments using trigger tools known to predict patient 
safety events. 
4. Environment of Care committee: Evaluates environmental and life 
safety hazards, monitors the response to product safety and device 
alerts and recalls, and provides oversight of the Emergency Response 
Plan. 
5. Infection Control Committee: Priorities for this committee for FY 2014 
include reducing the risks of catheter associated urinary tract infections 
and monitoring and improving compliance with hand hygiene. 
7

 

 

Page 50 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

f.

6. Operating Room Committee: works collaboratively with the 
Departments of Surgery, Anesthesia and Nursing to improve procedural 
safety and to decrease reoperations and surgical complications. 
7. Surgical Function Review Committee: a high priority for FY 2014 (see 
below) is to improve the timeliness of reporting of serious pathology 
results and to assure appropriate care for such patients. This committee 
also monitors for significant discrepancies between preoperative and 
postoperative diagnoses. 
ii. FMEA, or Failure Modes and Effects Analysis:  This is a multidisciplinary process 
which utilizes process mapping, identifies potential failure modes and examines 
the impact of these failure modes on patient care. A risk scoring system is used 
for identifying and evaluating improvement opportunities.  Stroger Hospital has 
selected the medication administration process for further evaluation with an 
FMEA and intends to structure process improvement initiatives to improve the 
timeliness and accuracy of medication administration, to include, but not 
limited to, the implementation of a bar‐code medication administration 
program. 
iii. Priority Patient Safety Projects: Stroger Hospital has prioritized four high‐risk, 
high‐volume clinical processes for robust multidisciplinary process improvement 
initiatives.  These are described below: 
1. Medication Safety: as described above, an FMEA will be continued 
through FY 2014 for the medication administration process.  Education 
will be provided to all hospital staffs to increase understanding and 
appreciation for the importance of reporting latent errors, or near 
misses; ADR reports will be tracked and evaluated.  
2. Procedural Safety: in addition to the monitoring by the Operating room 
committee, bedside procedures will be monitored for the performance 
of pre‐sedation assessments, time outs and the full application of the 
universal protocol.  In FY 2014 there are planned policy changes and 
educational activities pertinent to these goals. 
3. Discharge Transitions: discharge from the inpatient setting is a 
particularly vulnerable time for patients and even more so when there 
are limited financial, family and social resources available to the patient. 
To optimize the safety of the discharge transition in FY 2014, Stroger 
Hospital will reinforce and measure compliance with medication 
reconciliation, and optimize processes for patient education and post 
discharge appointing for patients. 
4. Reporting of Malignant Pathology: Stroger Hospital provides care for a 
large and vulnerable group of cancer patients. Early diagnosis and 
enrollment in care is a priority for the hospital.  A systematic process 
using computerized reporting is to be implemented to expedite the 
early recognition of new malignant diagnoses and to reinforce and 
expand outreach efforts to enroll patients in care. 
 
Culture of Safety:   Stroger Hospital is taking steps to improve the culture of safety in 
the organization by implementing structures and processes known to improve the 
8

 

 

Page 51 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

VI.

culture of safety.  Culture reflects the beliefs and attitudes of the hospital’s staffs, and is 
measured using a validated survey.  A positive culture of safety is associated with 
increased reporting of adverse events and reporting behaviors strengthen patient safety 
efforts.   
i. Assessment:  An assessment tool (developed and validated by AHRQ) which 
allows comparison to benchmark data is used at CCHHS for the assessment of  
safety culture.  It is administered at all CCHHS affiliates and is analyzed using 
national benchmark data.  It is expected that a repeat survey will be performed 
in the Fall of 2014. 
ii. Interventions:  Several  interventions based on the culture of safety survey 
results are implemented to enhance the culture of safety at CCHHS.  These 
include: 
1. Leadership walk rounds:  allows leaders to directly communicate safety 
priorities, support reporting behaviors and to hear staff concerns. 
2. Interdisciplinary rounds:  allow robust interdisciplinary planning of 
patient care, including pain management, infection prevention and 
discharge planning; these utilize a structured format and are led by unit 
based staff. 
3. Unit based safety programs provide opportunities for all staff to 
participate in quality improvement programs. 
 
Patient Complaints and Patient Satisfaction:  Patient feedback and perceptions of the 
safety and quality of care are vitally important to the development of a responsive, patient 
centered organization.  Stroger Hospital welcomes feedback, comments and complaints 
from patients and recognizes that patients and their families have the right to have 
complaints reviewed by the hospital. An established complaint resolution process 
implemented by the Office of Patient Satisfaction receives, prioritizes and responds to all 
complaints from patients.  Serious consideration is given to every complaint, and hospital 
policy is established regarding timeliness of resolution.  These processes are designed not 
only to enhance patient satisfaction but to also identify conditions which may impact on 
patient safety. 

 

VII.

Structured surveys of selected samples of discharged patients are administered by an 
independent organization and the results are reported to hospital leadership.  This type of 
feedback from patients is used to restructure processes to support patient safety, 
communication and patient education. 
 
Quality Metrics:  Quality measures are collected and reported to monitor and enhance 
quality of care; to report to the federal state and county governments; for legal and 
regulatory purposes and to support reimbursement and pay for performance initiatives.   
Currently reported metrics and performance reports for FY 2012 (the last fiscal year of data 
available) are displayed in APPENDIX  J for inpatients and APPENDIX  K for outpatients and 
are also described below. This section describes the metrics, the methods of abstraction and 
performance targets for FY 2014. 
 

9

 

 

Page 52 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
a. Description of Metrics:  Under the inpatient and outpatient quality reporting (IQR and 
OQR) programs of CMS the metrics reported in APPENDIX J and APPENDIX K are 
abstracted and reported on a quarterly basis to CMS.  A subset of these measures are 
reported to the Joint Commission.  These measures are reported publicly on the site 
Hospital Compare and constitute a key portion of the CCHHS quality dashboard.  
i. Process Measures:  Evidence based process measures reflect good clinical 
practice and high levels of achievement in these areas correlate with good  
patient outcomes.  These processes include the care of patients with myocardial 
infarction, heart failure, pneumonia and those who undergo surgery.  Recently, 
measures of thromboembolism prophylaxis and stroke care were added to the 
required measures.  The hospital’s performance in these areas is  used to 
determine the priorities for  performance improvement projects. 
ii. Outcome Measures ‐ Mortality and Readmissions: CMS uses administrative data 
to calculate overall mortality, readmission rates to the hospital and rates of 
hospital acquired conditions.  
iii. Outcome Measures‐ Hospital Acquired Conditions:  Hospital acquired infections 
represent a major, and preventable, source of morbidity in the hospital. Several 
types of hospital acquired infection rates must be reported by law and are listed 
in APPENDIX J and the Attachment.  
iv. Outcome Measures – Emergency Department(ED) Throughput:  Wait times in 
the ED for both inpatients and outpatients are monitored. ED wait times reflect 
hospital throughput and a hospital wide capacity management. 
 
b. Data Abstraction:  CCHHS uses computer supported data abstraction through the 
electronic medical record (EMR) system for all process measures. Abstractors are given 
a menu of cases which are sampled using the logic in the abstraction program 
(denominator) as well as data and links to support manual abstraction. Numerator data 
are assessed case by case after chart review by the abstractor and compliance is 
measured as a percentage.  Data is abstracted monthly for all process measures but is 
reported quarterly; reporting to the Joint Commission occurs concurrently with CMS 
reporting.  Data submission is through a third party.  Data for outcome measures may 
be abstracted by hospital abstractors (ED data), reported to CMS via alternative 
channels (infection control data which is first reported to the Centers for Disease 
Control ) or abstracted by CMS directly from its administrative database (mortality, 
readmissions and hospital acquired conditions). 
 
c.  Performance Targets:  These are determined  by the type of data (process or outcome) 
and by indicator.  A subset of process measures have been selected for the Hospital’s 
and System’s quality priorities for FY 2014 (see below).  Performance targets are set at a 
higher threshold for these metrics, to the top decile (or > 90th %ile) of achievement. One 
set of outcome measures,  ED throughput, has also been selected as a quality priority 
(see below).  For all other process measures, the achievement target for FY 2014 is 
above median performance (> 50th %ile).  For outcome measures, the achievement 
threshold is to have all measures above the national average. 
 

10

 

 

Page 53 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
d. Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS): CCHHS and Stroger Hospital Clinics will be 
reporting through the PQRS program for physician specific outpatient quality measures.  
The metrics will reflect the burden of disease and major risk factors in our ambulatory 
population but the exact indicators are yet to be determined. 
 
VIII.

System Quality Priorities/ Stroger Hospital Quality Priorities:  The System and Hospital 
quality priorities are to improve access to care, demonstrate excellence in the delivery of 
care and to improve patient satisfaction.  These priorities are divided into Inpatient, 
Outpatient and Nursing priorities, listed in APPENDIX L and discussed below.  APPENDIX L 
also displays the baseline and target performance for each indicator.  The baseline 
measurement is Q3 of 2013 and the achievement of targets will be assessed in Q3 of 2014.  
Data on progress toward the targets will be reported quarterly to the Board of Directors. 
 
a. Inpatient:  Delays in ED throughput may result in ED overcrowding and admission 
delays.  A comprehensive program to reduce ED wait times and improve hospital 
throughput is planned for FY 2014 and a Capacity Management workgroup has been 
convened.  Moderate targets reflect the complexity of the task of reducing wait times.  
The selected quality indicators reflect the major disease processes seen in the inpatient 
population; this includes myocardial infarction, heart failure, pneumonia and surgical 
care. Top decile performance, which is synonymous with the achievement of 100% 
compliance with these measures is the Stroger Hospital target for FY 2014.  This is an 
aggressive goal which will require a comprehensive multidisciplinary effort including 
nursing, pharmacy and IT. Patient satisfaction with hospital care is reflected in the 
summary measure of ‘willingness to recommend the hospital’. 
 
b. Outpatient:  Outpatient metrics focus on clinic throughput and patient satisfaction with 
care and measures of accessibility of the clinic. Diabetes management, and the measure 
of the effectiveness of treatment of diabetes is one of two priority quality indicators for 
the outpatient setting, and reflects the degree to which diabetes is driver for 
cardiovascular disease in our population.  The second is the accomplishment of 
childhood immunization. Both of these goals represent a focus on population health and 
prevention. 
 
c. Nursing Sensitive Indicators: Nursing sensitive indicators include fall rates and hospital 
acquired pressure ulcer rates.  Accurate data collection systems are being set in place 
for these indicators harnessing the reporting capabilities in the electronic medical 
record (EMR) system;  target performance is reduction of these outcomes by 25%.  The 
nursing indicator of communication with patients reflects the hospital’s goal to provide 
excellent customer service and to enhance patient satisfaction.  
 
d. Role of Medical Staff in Achieving Quality Priorities:  The department chairs and medical 
staff are responsible to the Executive Medical Staff Committee and the Quality 
Committee for maintaining a consistently high level of patient care.  Each department 
has identified quality priorities which support the institutional goals as outlined above 
and has selected high priority indicators for regular reporting to the Quality Committee.  
These indicators are listed by department in APPENDIX M. 
11

 

 

Page 54 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
 
IX.

Data Acquisition and Analysis:  The hospital collects data in a variety of settings to support 
the quality enterprise.  The Board of Directors along with System Leadership and the 
Executive Medical Staff set the priorities for data collection as well as the frequency of data 
collection.  The Board of Directors assures adequate resources to accomplish data 
acquisition and analyses required for the quality program.  The priorities and requirements 
for data collection for FY 2014 are summarized in the tables in APPENDICES I, L and M. Data 
is compared to external benchmarks whenever these are available and the significance of 
the comparison is evaluated using statistical techniques.  Data is displayed using run charts 
which show the evolution of performance over time and is correlated with performance 
improvement initiatives.  The data will be assessed using statistical process control 
techniques which can differentiate between special and common causes of variation; this 
information will be used to describe the nature of performance improvement initiatives 
which can best address variation.  The goal is to achieve high reliability in quality measures. 
 
Performance Improvement:  Priorities for performance improvement are established by the 
organizations leadership, which includes the Quality Committee, Executive Medical Staff, 
System Leadership and the Board of Directors.  High‐risk, high‐volume or problem prone 
areas are prioritized for performance improvement projects after consideration of the 
incidence, prevalence and severity of problems in these areas and whether these problems  
are known to affect  health outcomes, patient safety and quality of care. Performance 
improvement projects are proportional to the scope and complexity of the hospital’s 
services, as outlined in APPENDICES I, L and M. 

X.

 

XI.

The hospital’s approach to performance improvement projects is in a transitional phase 
from P‐D‐C‐A to a Lean/Six Sigma Approach.  This choice reflects the emphasis on value in 
health care operations and the alignment of Lean concepts with value and the reduction of 
waste.  This approach accurately reflects the multidisciplinary nature of health care and the 
processes under study.  The Lean approach also supports the possibility of rapid cycle 
performance improvement which may be used in selected cases, particularly in unit based 
improvement programs.  Six Sigma addresses the variation in quality measurement which  
reflects the stability of the process under study. Performance improvement projects will 
address variation by designing high‐reliability interventions which are known to create 
sustained changes.  This includes system redesign, forcing functions, checks and 
redundancies and consideration of human factors.  Monitoring of performance 
improvement activities will be provided by the hospital Quality Committee.  Staff in the 
Department of Quality and Patient Safety will process data required for performance 
improvement projects and provide facilitation for these projects as required. 
 
Confidentiality:  All information, data, reports, minutes or memoranda relating to the 
implementation of this Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan are solely 
for use in the course of internal quality control for the purpose of reducing morbidity and 
mortality and improving patient care. As such, they are strictly confidential under the Illinois 
Medical Studies and Hospital Licensing Act. The confidentiality of patient specific data will 
be protected in observance of HIPAA regulations and aggregated, de‐identified data will be 
used whenever possible for quality data reporting. 
12

 

 

Page 55 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

XII.
APPENDIX A 
CMS (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) Regulations Guiding Quality Plans 
 
 
Regulation (CFR 482.21 sections A‐0263 ‐  A‐0267): 
 
The hospital must develop, implement and maintain an effective, ongoing, hospital‐wide, data‐driven 
quality assessment and performance improvement program.  The hospital’s governing body must 
ensure that the program reflects the complexity of the hospital’s organization and services, involves all 
hospital departments and services (including those services furnished under contract or arrangement), 
and focuses on indicators related to improved health outcomes and the prevention and reduction of 
medical errors.  The hospital must maintain and demonstrate evidence of its QAPI program for review 
by CMS. 
 
(a)Standard: Program Scope 
 
i. The program must include, but not be limited to, an 
ongoing program that shows measurable improvement 
in indicators for which there is evidence that it will 
improve health outcomes and identify and reduce 
medical errors. 
ii. The hospital must measure, analyze, and track quality 
indicators, including adverse patient events and other 
aspects of performance that assess processes of care, 
hospital service and operations. 
(b)Standard: Program Data 
 
(1) The program must incorporate quality indicator 
data including patient care data and other relevant 
data, eg information submitted to or received from 
the hospital’s Quality Improvement Organization. 
(2) The hospital must use the data collected to (i) 
monitor the effectiveness and safety of services and 
quality of care and (ii) identify opportunities for 
improvement and changes that will lead to 
improvement. 
(3) The frequency and detail of data collection must be 
specified by the hospital’s governing body. 
 
(c)Standard: Program Activities 
 
(1) The hospital must set priorities for its performance 
improvement activities that: (i) focus on high‐risk, high‐
volume, or problem‐prone areas; (ii) consider the 
incidence, prevalence, and severity of problems in those 

13

 

 

Page 56 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
areas and (iii) affect health outcomes, patient safety 
and quality of care. 
(2) Performance improvement activities must track 
medical errors and adverse patient events, analyze their 
causes, and implement preventive actions and 
mechanisms that include feedback and learning 
throughout the hospital. 
(3)  The hospital must take actions aimed at 
performance improvement and after implementing 
those actions the hospital must measure its success and 
track performance to ensure that improvements are 
sustained. 
 
(d)Standard: Performance Improvement Projects 
As part of its quality assessment and performance improvement program the hospital must cnduct 
performance improvement projects. 
 
(1) The number and scope of distinct improvement 
projects conducted annually must be proportional to 
the scope and complexity of the hospital’s services and 
operations. 
(2) A hospital may.. develop and implement an 
information technology system explicitly designed to 
improve patient safety and quality of care. 
(3) The hospital must document what quality 
improvement projects are being conducted, the reasons 
for conducting these projects and the measurable 
progress achieved on these projects. 
 
(e)Standard: Executive Responsibilities 
The hospital’s governing body, medical staff, and administrative officials are responsible and 
accountable for ensuring the following: 
 
(1) That an ongoing program for quality improvement, 
and patient safety, including the reduction of 
medical errors, is defined, implemented, and 
maintained. 
(2) That the hospital‐wide quality assessment and 
quality improvement efforts address priorities for 
improved quality of care and patient safety and that 
all improvement actions are evaluated. 
(3) That clear expectations for safety are established. 
(4) That adequate resources are allocated for 
measuring, assessing, improving and sustaining the 
hospital performance and reducing risk to patients. 
(5) The determination of projects is conducted annually
14

 

 

Page 57 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX B: 
Joint Commission Leadership Standards 
 
 
LD.01.03.01 
The governing  body is ultimately accountable for the safety and quality of care, treatment and services. 
The governing body defines in writing its responsibilities 
 
LD.02.03.01 
The governing body, senior manager and leaders of the organized medical staff regularly communicate 
with each other on issues of safety and quality. Leaders discuss issues that affect the hospital and the 
population it serves, including performance improvement activities, reported safety and quality issues, 
proposed solutions and their impact on resources, reports on key quality measures and safety 
indicators, safety and quality issues specific to the population served. 
 
LD.03.01.01 
Leaders create and maintain a culture of safety throughout the hospital. Leaders regularly evaluate the 
culture of safety and quality using valid and reliable tools and prioritize and implement changes 
identified by the evaluation. 
 
LD.03.02.01 
The hospital uses data and information to guide decisions and to understand variation in the 
performance of processes supporting safety and quality. 
 
LD.03.05.01 
Leaders implement changes in existing processes to improve the performance of the hospital. Structures 
for managing change and performance improvement exist. The hospital has a systematic approach to 
change and performance improvement.  Leaders provide resources required for performance 
improvement and change management. 
 
LD.04.04.01 
Leaders establish priorities for performance improvement; set priorities for performance improvement 
activities and patient health outcomes, and give priority to high‐volume, high‐risk or problem prone 
processes for performance improvement activities. 
 
LD.04.04.03 
New or modified services and processes are designed incorporating multiple factors (i.e. patient/staff 
needs, results of quality activities, information about patient risks, and sentinel event information) 
 
LD.04.04.05 
The hospital has an organization‐wide, integrated patient safety program within its performance 
improvement activities.  The leaders implement a hospital‐wide patient safety program.  One or more 
qualified individuals or an interdisciplinary group manages the safety program.  The scope of the safety 
program includes the full range of safety issues, from potential or no‐harm errors to hazardous 
conditions and sentinel events.  All departments, programs and services within the hospital participate 
in the safety program. 
 
15

 

 

Page 58 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX C: 
Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards 
 
 
PI.01.01.01, EP 1‐8, 11, 12, 14‐16, 30, 38 
The hospital collects data to monitor its performance.  Leaders set priorities for data collection. The 
leaders identify the frequency for data collection.  The hospital collects data on 
 the performance improvement  priorities identified by leaders 
 operative and other procedures that place the patient at risk of disability or death 
 all significant discrepancies between preoperative and postoperative diagnoses, including 
pathologic diagnoses 
 adverse events related to using moderate or deep sedation 
 use of blood and blood components 
 all reported and confirmed transfusion reactions 
 results of resuscitation 
 behavior management and treatment 
 significant medication errors 
 significant adverse drug reactions 
 patient perception of the safety and quality of care, treatment, and services 
 effectiveness of fall reduction activities 
 effectiveness of response to change or deterioration in a patient’s condition 
 
 
PI.02.01.01, EP 1‐8 
The hospital compiles and analyzes data.  The hospital compiles data in usable formats, identifies the 
frequency for data analysis, uses statistical tools and techniques to analyze and display the data, 
analyzes and compares internal data over time to identify levels of performance, patterns, trends and 
variations, and compares data with external sources, when available. 
 
PI.03.01.01, EP 1‐4 
The hospital improves performance on an ongoing basis.  Leaders prioritize the identified improvement 
opportunities. The hospital takes action on improvement priorities.  The hospital evaluates actions to 
confirm that they resulted in improvements. 
 
 

16

 

 

Page 59 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX D: 
CCHHS Quality Reporting Overview 
 
 
 
 
Board of Directors 
CCHHS

Board QPS 
Committee

Executive Medical 
Staff Stroger 
Hospital*

Quality Committee 
Stroger Hospital

Executive Medical 
Staff Provident 
Hospital*

Cermak Health 
Services Quality 
Committee

ACHN Quality 
Committee

Provident Quality 
Committee

 
 
 
 
 
*Reports to the Board may be provided by the Chief Quality Officer, the Executive Medical Director, the 
Chief of Clinical Integration, the affiliate Chief Operating Officer or directly by the President of the 
respective medical staffs or their designees. 
 
 
 

17

 

 

Page 60 of 77

 

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX E: 
Hospital Wide Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee Description 
 
Committee Reports Received: 

Infection 
Control

Nursing 
Specific 
Indicators/OR 
and ED

Environment 
of Care 
Committee

Patient 
Satisfaction 
and 
Grievances

Committee on 
Cancer

Hospital Quality 
Improvement and 
Patient Safety 
Committee

Medical 
Records

Core 
Measures

Critical Care 
and 
Resuscitation

Department 
Quality Reviews

Hospital 
Oversight 
Committee/ 
M&Ms

Drug 
&Formulary/ 
Adverse Drug 
Events

Surgical 
Function 
Review

 
 
 
 
 
 
Committee Membership:  
 
Committee Chair co‐appointed by EMS President and COO 
Medical Department Chairs 
 
 
 
 
Executive Medical Director (System)   
 
 
Chief Quality Officer (System)   
 
 
 
Chief Operating Officer (Stroger Hospital) 
 
 
Chief Operating Officer (ACHN)   
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Nursing Officer (Stroger Hospital)   
Chief Financial Officer (Stroger Hospital)  
 
 
Director of Supply Chain Management (System) 
Chief Clinical Informatics Officer 
Director of Health Information (System) 
Director of Patient Experience (System) 
Director of Pharmacy (System) 
Director of Infection Control (System) 
18

 

 

Page 61 of 77

 
 

Ex Officio  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Chief of Clinical Integration 
Chief Business Officer 
Executive Director of Nursing 
Director of Multicultural Affairs 
Chief Financial Officer (System) 
Chair, Quality and Patient  
 
Safety Subcommittee, 
CCHHS Board of Directors 
 

 

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX F: 
Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events 
 
 

Clinical Adverse Event or 
Near Miss Event

Clinical Adverse Event

Near Miss Event: No 
Patient Harm

Attending Physician 
Notified

Sentinel Event

Not Sentinel Event

Significant Risk

No Critical Factors per 
Attending Physician

Patient or Family Concern

Notify Risk Management 
Immediately

Enter into On‐Line Event 
Reporting System
Notify Supervisor

Notify Department Chair 
or Oversight Committee

Notify Chief Medical 
Officer/Executive Medical 
Director

Notify Quality

Leadership Notification: 
COO, Executive Medical 
Director, Quality

Disclosure to Patient 
and/or Representative

Disclosure to Patient 
and/or Representative

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

19

 

 

Page 62 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX G: 
Sentinel Events (Joint Commission) 
 
The event has resulted in an unanticipated death or major permanent loss of function not related to the 
natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition§    
 
or 
 
1. The event is one of the following (even if the outcome was not death or major permanent loss 
of function not related to the natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition): 
2. Suicide of any patient receiving care, treatment and services in a staffed around the‐clock care 
setting or within 72 hours of discharge 
3. Unanticipated death of a full‐term infant Abduction of any patient receiving care, treatment, 
and services 
4. Discharge of an infant to the wrong family 
5. Rape, assault (leading to death or permanent loss of function), or homicide of any patient 
receiving care, treatment, and services# 
6. Rape, assault (leading to death or permanent loss of function), or homicide of a staff member, 
licensed independent practitioner, visitor, or vendor while on site at the health care 
organization  
7. Hemolytic transfusion reaction involving administration of blood or blood products having major 
blood group incompatibilities (ABO, Rh, other blood groups) 
8. Invasive procedure, including surgery, on the wrong patient, wrong site, or wrong procedure** 
9. Unintended retention of a foreign object in a patient after surgery or other invasive procedures 
10. Severe neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin >30 milligrams/deciliter) 
11. Prolonged fluoroscopy with cumulative dose >1,500 rads to a single field or any delivery of 
radiotherapy to the wrong body region or >25% above the planned radiotherapy dose 
** 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
§A distinction is made between an adverse outcome that is primarily related to the natural course of the 
patient’s illness or underlying condition (not reviewed under the Sentinel Event Policy) and a death or 
major permanent loss of function that is associated with the treatment (including “recognized 
complications”) or lack of treatment of that condition, or otherwise not clearly and primarily related to 
the natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition (reviewable under the Sentinel Event 
Policy). In indeterminate cases, the event will be presumed reviewable and the hospital’s response will 
be reviewed under the Sentinel Event Policy according to the prescribed procedures and time frames 
without delay for additional information such as autopsy results. 
  Major permanent loss of function means sensory, motor, physiologic, or intellectual impairment not 
present on admission requiring continued treatment or lifestyle change. When major permanent loss of 
function cannot be immediately determined, applicability of the policy is not established until either 
the patient is discharged with continued major loss of function or two weeks have elapsed with 
persistent major loss of function, whichever is the longer period. 
#Sexual abuse/assault (including rape), as a reviewable sentinel event, is defined as unconsented sexual 
contact involving a patient and another patient, staff member, or other perpetrator while being treated 
or on the premises of the hospital, including oral, vaginal or anal penetration or fondling of the 
patient’s sex organ(s) by another individual’s hand, sex organ, or object. One or more of the following 
must be present to determine reviewability: 
n Any staff‐witnessed sexual contact as described above 
n Admission by the perpetrator that sexual contact, as described above, occurred on the premises 
n Sufficient clinical evidence obtained by the hospital to support allegations of unconsented sexual contact 
20

 

 

Page 63 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX H: 
Never Events (National Quality Foundation) 
 
Surgical or Invasive Procedures 
1A. Surgery or other invasive procedure performed on the wrong site 
1B. Surgery or other invasive procedure performed on the wrong patient 
1C. Wrong surgical or other invasive procedure performed on a patient  
1D. Unintended retention of a foreign object in a patient after surgery or other invasive procedure  
1E. Intraoperative or immediately postoperative/postprocedure death in an ASA Class 1 patient 
 
Product or Device Events 
2A. Patient death or serious injury associated with the use of contaminated drugs, devices, or biologics 
provided by the healthcare setting  
2B. Patient death or serious injury associated with the use or function of a device in patient care, in 
which the device is used or functions other than as intended  
2C. Patient death or serious injury associated with intravascular air embolism that occurs while being 
cared for in a healthcare setting  
 
Patient Protection Events 
3A. Discharge or release of a patient/resident of any age, who is unable to make decisions, to other than 
an authorized person  
3B. Patient death or serious injury associated with patient elopement (disappearance)  
3C. Patient suicide, attempted suicide, or self‐harm that results in serious injury, while being cared for in 
a healthcare setting  
 
Care Management Events 
4A. Patient death or serious injury associated with a medication error (e.g., errors involving the wrong 
drug, wrong dose, wrong patient, wrong time, wrong rate, wrong preparation, or wrong route of 
administration)  
4B. Patient death or serious injury associated with unsafe administration of blood products  
4C. Maternal death or serious injury associated with labor or delivery in a low‐risk pregnancy while 
being cared for in a healthcare setting  
4D. Death or serious injury of a neonate associated with labor or delivery in a low‐risk pregnancy  
4E. Patient death or serious injury associated with a fall while being cared for in a healthcare setting  
4F. Any Stage 3, Stage 4, and unstageable pressure ulcers acquired after admission/presentation to a 
healthcare setting 
4G. Artificial insemination with the wrong donor sperm or wrong egg  
4H. Patient death or serious injury resulting from the irretrievable loss of an irreplaceable biological 
specimen  
4I. Patient death or serious injury resulting from failure to follow up or communicate laboratory, 
pathology, or radiology test results  
 
 
 
 
 
21

 

 

Page 64 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX H, cont’d: 
Never Events (National Quality Foundation) 
 
Environmental Events 
5A. Patient or staff death or serious injury associated with an electric shock in the course of a patient 
care process in a healthcare setting  
5B. Any incident in which systems designated for oxygen or other gas to be delivered to a patient 
contains no gas, the wrong gas, or are contaminated by toxic substances  
5C. Patient or staff death or serious injury associated with a burn incurred from any source in the course 
of a patient care process in a healthcare setting  
5D. Patient death or serious injury associated with the use of physical restraints or bedrails while being 
cared for in a healthcare setting  
 
Radiologic Events 
6A. Death or serious injury of a patient or staff associated with the introduction of a metallic object into 
the MRI area 
 
Potential Criminal Events 
7A. Any instance of care ordered by or provided by someone impersonating a physician, nurse, 
pharmacist, or other licensed healthcare provider   
7B. Abduction of a patient/resident of any age  
7C. Sexual abuse/assault on a patient or staff member within or on the grounds of a healthcare setting  
7D. Death or serious injury of a patient or staff member resulting from a physical assault (i.e., battery) 
that occurs within or on the grounds of a healthcare setting 

 
 
 
 

 

22

 

 

Page 65 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX I: 
Medical Staff Committees and Patient Safety Indicators 
 
Committee  

Indicators  

Data Source  

Reporting 
Frequency  

Blood Bank & 
Transfusion  

Transfusion 
Reactions  

Red Cells ‐‐ 
Appropriate  

Platelets ‐‐ 
Appropriate  

Chart review  

Biannually  

Critical Care & 
Resuscitation  

Ventilator 
complication rate  

Restraint 
prevalence & 
complications  

Resuscitation 
Results  

Inf Control data 
Nursing review 
Chart review  

Biannually  

Drug Usage 
Evaluation  

# ADRs reported 
monthly  

Allergy alerts 
overridden by 
user  

Drug‐lab alerts 
overridden  

Incident Reporting 
system; Cerner  

Quarterly  

Environment of 
Care  

Fire Safety  

Integrity Fire 
Doors  

Hospital 
Environment  

EOC rounds  

Quarterly  

Infection Control  

CAUTI rate  

CLABSI rate  

Handwashing 
compliance  

Infection control 
dept  

Biannually  

Medical 
Education  

Medication 
reconciliation 
performed  

Enunciate 
knowledge re DC 
safety  

Satisfaction 
with doctors  

Cerner 
HCAHPS 
Survey  

Biannually  

Medical 
Information  

DC summary 
completed 30 
days  

Operative notes 
completed  

Admission H&P 
signed 48 hours  

Cerner reports  

Quarterly  

Operating Room 
     

Intra‐operative 
Deaths  

Reoperation in 7 
days  

On time starts  

Chart reviews 
Incident reports  

Quarterly  

Surgical Function 
Review  

Discrepancies pre 
and post op 
diagnoses  

% Malignant 
Path reported in 
7 days  

% PAP smears 
F/U in one 
month  

Lab system 
reports  

Quarterly  

 
 
 

 

23

 

 

Page 66 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX J: 
Inpatient Quality Reporting Metrics: Process Measures 
Baseline: 2012 

 

 

 

24

 

 

Page 67 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX J, cont’d: 
Inpatient Quality Reporting Metrics: Outcome Measures 
Baseline: 2012 

 

 
25

 

 

Page 68 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 
 

APPENDIX J, cont’d: 
Inpatient Quality Reporting Metrics: Hospital Acquired Infections 
Baseline: 2012 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

26

 

 

Page 69 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX J, cont’d: 
Inpatient Quality Reporting Metrics: Patient Satisfaction Measures 
Baseline: 2012 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

27

 

 

Page 70 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX K: 
Outpatient Quality Reporting Metrics 
Baseline: 2012 
 

 

 

 

28

 

 

Page 71 of 77

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX L: 
System Quality Priorities: 2014 
 
Key Indicators: Inpatient Services  
Indicator  

Target 
Performance * 

Baseline 
Performance * 

Data Source  

Reporting 
Interval  

ED 
Registration 
to 
Discharge (outpatient)  

240 minutes 

347 minutes 

Cerner 
Lighthouse  

Quarterly  

ED 
Registration 
Inpatient (inpatients)  

480 minutes 

620 minutes 

Cerner 
Lighthouse  

Quarterly  

Core Measures 
HF, MI, PN and SCIP*  

100%  

97%,  99%,  90%, 
98%  

Cerner 
Lighthouse  

Quarterly  

Patient Satisfaction 
Recommend Hospital  

71%  

61% 

HCAHPS 

Quarterly  

to 

Key Indicators: Outpatient Services  
Indicator  

Target 
Performance  

Baseline 
Performance  

Data Source 

Reporting 
Interval  

Ease  of  moving  through 
the clinic ‘good’  

75%  

63% 

HCAHPS 

Quarterly  

Ease  of  reaching  clinic  on 
the phone ‘good’  

75%  

59% 

HCAHPS 

Quarterly 

Children 
with 
UTD 
immunization at 24 mo 

> 71%  

68% 

CMApp 

Quarterly 

Diabetics with A1C > 9%  

< 29%  

24% 

CMApp 

Quarterly  

Data Source 

Reporting 
Interval  

HCAHPS 
survey  

Quarterly  

Key Indicators: Nursing Services  
Indicator  
Communication 
nurses ‘good’  

Target 
Performance  
with 

Baseline 
Performance  

73%  

63% 

Fall rate/ falls with injury  

Decrease 
25%  

by 

Cerner/IView  
Chart review  

Quarterly  

Hospital acquired pressure 
ulcers  

Decrease 
25%  

by 

Cerner/IView  
Chart review  

Quarterly  

 
* Baseline reflects Q3, 2013; target performance to be evaluated Q3, 2014 

29

 

 

Page 72 of 77

 

 2014 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of CCHHS Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan 

 

APPENDIX M: 
Departmental Quality Indicators 
 
Department  

Indicators  

Data Source(s)  

Frequency  

Anesthesia  

•
•
•

SCIP measure: VTE prophylaxis 
Handoff to PACU staff 
Moderate sedation assessment  

Cerner 
Lighthouse 
Cerner IView  

Quarterly  

Emergency Med  

•
•
•

Registration to provider (outpt) 
Registration to decision to admit  
AMI door to needle time 

Cerner 
Lighthouse  

Quarterly 

Family Med  

•
•

Heart Failure and Pneumonia measures 
Med records‐ admission and discharge  

Cerner 
Lighthouse 

Quarterly 

Internal Med  

•
•

Heart Failure and Pneumonia measures 
Med records‐ admission and DC 
completion  

Cerner 
Lighthouse 

Quarterly 

Obstetrics/ 
Gynecology  

•
•
•

Caesarean section rate 
Elective delivery 37‐39 weeks 
Breast feeding initiation  

OB database  

Quarterly 

Pathology  

•
•
•

Turnaround time – inpatient 
Critical results reported – outpatient 
Critical results reported ‐‐ inpatient  

Lab system  

Quarterly 

Pediatrics  

•
•
•

Mortality in v. low birthweight infants 
Pediatric immunization rates 
Appropriate asthma care 

VON network 
CMApp  
Cerner  

Quarterly 

Psychiatry  

•
•

Chart review 

Quarterly 

•

Outpatient clinic show rates 
Completion of postnatal depression 
screen  
Depression treatment ‐ appropriateness 

Radiology  

•
•
•

Critical result reporting 
Contrast: abdominal CT 
Contrast: thoracic CT  

Cerner 
PACS data  

Quarterly 

Surgery  

•
•
•

SCIP: antibiotic choice  & glucose control 
H&P completion 48 hours 
Operative note completion 30 days  

Cerner 
Lighthouse 
Cerner reports  

Quarterly 

Trauma  

•
•
•

Time to Operating room 
Negative laparoscopy rate 
Completion of operative report in 24 hrs  

Chart review 
Cerner  

Quarterly 

 
30

 

 

Page 73 of 77

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 11, 2013

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 74 of 77

 John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

 

 

Medical Staff AppointmentsIReappointments and Non-Medical Staff Action Items Subject to

Approval by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee

INITIAL APPQCATIQNS

Awad, Sawsan, MD Pediatrics/Cardiology Voluntary Physician
Appointment Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015

Khan, Salman, MD Pediatrics/ACHN Active Physician
Appointment Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 204-5 2014

Mehta, Annu P., MD Family Medicine/ACHN Active Physician
Appointment Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015

Roach, Paul, MD Trauma Voluntary Physician
Appointment Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015

Initial Non-Physician Appointment Applications
Benoit, Jenna M., PA-C Surgery Otolaryngology

With Patel, UrjeetA., MD
Alternate McDonald, Sarah F., MD

Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015
Obilor, Isabel 0., CNP Family Practice

With Chin, Sophia Y., MD
Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015


Department of Correctional Health

Ezike, Ngozi MD Juvenile Detention Center

Reappointment Effective: December 21 2013 thru December 20, 2015
Ting, Andrew, MD Medicine

Reappointment Effective: December 18, 2013 thru December 17, 2015
Watson-Montgomery, Melanie DDS Oral Health

Reappointment Effective: December 16, 2013 thru December 15, 2015

Department of Familv Medicine
Siddiqi, Alvia H., MD Family Medicine/ACHN
Reappointment Effective: January 17, 2014 thru January 16, 2016

Department of Medicine

Physician Assistant

Nurse Practitioner

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Krishnan, Kousik, MD Adult Cardiology Voluntary Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 22, 2014 thru January 21, 2016
Lad, Thomas E., MD Hematology/Oncology Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2014 thru January 17, 2016 
JM MD 1,1239%ng

errIn, . ary ., enera lCin

- - . EE

Reappomtment Effective. January 19, 2014 rJ?iamemnER 11, 2013

Item December l, 2013
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 1 0f 3

Page 75 of 77

REVISED

John H. StrogerI Jr. Hospital of Cook Coung
Reappointment Applications

Department of Medicine (continued)

Sha?ei, Shams, MD Pulmonary Critical Care Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 19, 2014 thru January 18, 2016

Singh, Anshu, MD Hospital Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015

Department of Pediatrics
Bhobe, Swati S., MD Pediatrics Consulting Physician

Reappointment Effective: December 30, 2013 thru December 29, 2015

Department of 
Watts, Jeffery MD Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: December 28, 2013 thru December 27, 2014

Department of Surgeg

Gandhi, Yogesh, MD Neurosurgery Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: December 21, 2013 thru December 20, 2015
Wysocki, Robert, MD Orthopedic Surgery Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015

Department of Trauma
Clar, Steven A., MD Physical Medicine Active Physician

Reappointment Effective: December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015

Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff

Nwigwe, Joy 0., CNP Medicine I Hospital Medicine Nurse Practitioner
With Franco-Sadud, Ricardo A., MD

Effective: January 19, 2014 thru January 18, 2016

Ragauskis, Pauline M., PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant

With Kysia, Rashid Fuad, MD
Alternate Schaider, Jeffrey, MD

With Leekha, Deepak, MD Medicine General Medicine
Alternate Shah, Sejal, MD
Effective: December 18, 2013 thru December 17, 2015

Medical Staff Status Change w? no Change in Privileges

 

Goldberg, David MD Active/General Medicine To Voluntary Physician

Paul, Reena MD Active/Family Med Department change from Family
Medicine to Correctional Health

Watts, Tabitha MD Voluntary/Pediatrics To Active Physicia


Medical Staff Additional Clinical Privileges APPROVED

Lahijani, Sheila C. MD From Service to 530

Napoles, MD Active Physician Advanced Laparoscopic
Privileges

Item December 1 1, 2013
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 2 0f 3 REVISED

Page 76 of 77

 

Provident Hospital of Cook County

Medical Staff AppointmentsIReappointments and Non-Medical Staff Action Items Subject to
Approval by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee

APPOINTMENT APPLICATION

Department of Emergency Megicine

Tai, Jahangir, DO
Appointment Effective:

Department of Surgem

Napoles, MD
Appointment Effective:

Emergency Medicine Voluntary Physician
December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015

General Surgery Affiliate Physician
December 11, 2013 thru December 10. 2015

Initial Non-Physician Appointment Applications

Eneogwe, Joy C.P., CNP
With Chukwudozie O. Ezeokoli, MD

Effective:

Internal Medicine Nurse Practitioner

December 11, 2013 thru December 10, 2015

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

 

Department of Internal Medicine

Brannegan, Richard MD
Reappointment Effective:

Neurology Affiliate Physician
December 18, 2013 thru November 17, 2015

Department of Obstetrics/Gynecology

Milad, Magdy, MD
Effective:

Gynecology Affiliate Physician
December 11, 2013 thru July 28, 2015

Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff

Baht-Yehudah, Adaminah K., PA-C
With Crawford, Clifford S. MD
Alternate Ansari, Shahid A., MD

Effective:

Item December I I, 2013

Surgery General Surgery Physician Assistant

December 11, 2013 thru June 10, 2014



APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY I EE
ON DECEMBER 1 1, 2013

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 3 0f3 REVISED

Page 77 of 77

