Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Friday,
April 25, 2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Lewis M.
Collens; Ada Mary Gugenheim; M. Hill Hammock; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD
(8)

Present
Telephonically:

Director Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE (1)

Absent:

Directors Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD and Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH (2)

Chairman Carvalho stated that Director Lerner was unable to be physically present, but was able to participate in the
meeting telephonically.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Hammock, moved to allow Director Lerner to participate
as a voting member for this meeting telephonically.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Lerner confirmed his presence telephonically.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Anna Ashcraft – Director of the Real Estate
Management Division of the Cook County
Bureau of Economic Development
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel
Terry Mason, MD – Cook County Department of
Public Health

II.

Jennifer Purcell – Labor and Employment Counsel
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Interim Chief Executive
Officer and Chief of Clinical Integration
Sharon Welbel, MD – System Director of Infection
Control

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, March 28, 2014
Director Hammock, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Board of Directors Meeting of March 28, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 1 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 25, 2014
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
B. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, April 18, 2014
 Five (5) Collective Bargaining Agreements with SEIU Local 73
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of April 18, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, April 18, 2014
 Master Intergovernmental Agreement between the City of Chicago/Chicago Department of Public Health
and the County of Cook/CCHHS
 Contracts and Procurement Items (detail was provided as attachment to Board Agenda)
 Proposed Transfer of Funds
 Proposed Resolution authorizing the closure of three (3) Oak Forest Health Center bank accounts held at
Suburban Bank and Trust, in order to consolidate checking/savings accounts
Director Butler, seconded by Director Wiese, moved the approval of the Minutes of the Finance
Committee Meeting of April 18, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho abstained and voted PRESENT on request number 3, under the Contracts
and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.
Director Velasquez abstained and voted PRESENT on request number 2, under the Contracts
and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.

D. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, April 24, 2014
 Clinical training affiliations
 Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
During the discussion of the Minutes, Chairman Carvalho inquired regarding the information provided on the
tuberculosis (TB) surveillance update; on page 58 of the minutes packet, he questioned the bulleted section that
stated that the City of Chicago withdrew corporate support from TB control. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Interim Chief
Executive Officer and Chief of Clinical Integration, responded that the City closed their clinics that were used to
provide services for people with TB; this was because, over time, their cases were decreasing, and because they
were moving away from direct provision of clinical services. There was an arrangement that was made to sunset
those services and fold them into the Cook County Department of Public Health (CCDPH) and CCHHS provision
of care. Those services are now being provided in CCHHS clinics at multiple sites and are managed by the
Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine. With regard to the question of who provides those services to
persons in suburban Cook County, Dr. Shannon stated that it depends - if the patient has had contact with
CCHHS, either in a consultative fashion or by being admitted, they will be followed by one of the CCHHS
pulmonary clinics; if they have not had contact with CCHHS and they have only been discovered externally, and
have uncomplicated care, they are handled by CCDPH suburban clinics. Dr. Shannon added that, although the
City closed their clinics, there is a chargeback system to the City for the care that is provided for those people
who are residents of the City.
With regard to the information provided on employee influenza vaccinations on page 17 of the Minutes,
Chairman Carvalho noted that, if one was not familiar with this subject within the System, one would look at this
Page 2 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 25, 2014
Page 3

III.

Board and Committee Reports
D. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, April 24, 2014 (continued)
chart and think that CCHHS has a voluntary system of immunization of its employees; in fact, it does not – it is a
mandatory system. He stated that the low number of vaccinated employees is unacceptable. Last year, the former
Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ram Raju, asked the Board to not make an issue of this because there were so many
other activities going on with respect to enrollment in CountyCare; however, that will not be the case next year.
He noted that this matter has been the subject of controversy for the past five years – there is a resistance by many
to adhere to the policy adopted by this Board as mandatory. It is not even a medical issue, but a moral issue – the
idea that health care workers can expose their patients to preventable disease because they have a unique
interpretation of germ theory is morally appalling.
Director Collens, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of April 24, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

Action Items
A. Approve recommendation that the Cook County Board exercise an option to purchase real estate contained
in a Lease Agreement between the County of Cook, as Tenant, and the Hispanic Housing Development
Corporation (HHDC), as Landlord, for property located at 2424 S. Pulaski, Chicago, Illinois, which houses
the Dr. Jorge Prieto Health Center of CCHHS’ Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook
County (ACHN) (Attachment #1)
Anthony Rajkumar, Chief Business Officer, and Anna Ashcraft, Director of the Real Estate Management Division
of the Cook County Bureau of Economic Development, provided a brief overview of the matter.
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the request to approve
the recommendation that the Cook County Board exercise an option to purchase real estate
contained in a Lease Agreement between the County of Cook, as Tenant, and the Hispanic
Housing Development Corporation (HHDC), as Landlord, for property located at 2424 S.
Pulaski, Chicago, Illinois, which houses the Dr. Jorge Prieto Health Center of CCHHS’
Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook County (ACHN).
Chairman Carvalho stated that an amendment was necessary in order to take into account the respective roles of
the CCHHS Board and County Board regarding this type of real estate matter. To clarify, the amendment reflects
that the CCHHS Board is approving exercise of the option to purchase, and in accordance with the Enabling
Ordinance, the CCHHS Board is asking the County Board approve its approval. The original wording asked the
County Board to exercise the option, but that is technically not how it should have been worded. The CCHHS
Board exercises the option, and because the amount of the purchase is over $100,000, the CCHHS Board asks the
County Board to concur or approve that action.
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Wiese, moved the following amendment to the
motion: to approve exercise of the option to purchase real estate contained in a Lease
Agreement between the County of Cook, as Tenant, and the Hispanic Housing Development
Corporation (HHDC), as Landlord, for property located at 2424 S. Pulaski, Chicago, Illinois,
which houses the Dr. Jorge Prieto Health Center of CCHHS’ Ambulatory and Community
Health Network of Cook County (ACHN), and request approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners of this action by the CCHHS Board of Directors.
Page 3 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 25, 2014
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
A.

Regarding exercising an option to purchase real estate (continued)
Chairman Carvalho stated that action on the matter would be deferred until after the Board concludes discussion of
the matter in closed session.
Following the adjournment of closed session, the Board took the following action.
On the motion to approve, as amended, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B. Contracts and Procurement Items
There were no contracts and procurement items presented directly for the Board’s consideration.

C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Chairman Carvalho stated that Dr. Shannon has moved right into the Interim Chief Executive Officer (CEO) role; he
has appeared in the media and press, which is one of the important functions of the CEO, and has done a fine job with
that.
Chairman Carvalho stated that the Board is moving ahead with its search for a permanent CEO. In line with the timing
that was planned by the search firm, the Board will have a book of candidates to review in May; the Board plans to
begin interviewing in June.
Chairman Carvalho stated that he was invited and agreed to participate in a forum hosted by Crain’s Chicago Business
on May 1st; every year they have a panel of Chicago-area hospital trustees to talk about current topics in health care
and governance. He stated that he will take this as an opportunity on behalf of the Board to pursue that part of the
Ordinance that calls for Directors to be advocates for the safety net system and the public and population health-based
system. In particular, he will encourage discussion of ways that, under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), systems can
responsibly respond to the challenges ahead. Especially in the case of private hospital systems, in light of the fact that
there is now an influx of resources supporting persons who theretofore have been uninsured, he is hoping to make the
point that with that influx of resources, if they want to stay true to their charitable purposes, they should continue to
extend their services to those who remain uninsured even after the ACA, and to actually own the patients that they see
that sometimes in the past they have merely bandaged up and sent to CCHHS under the misguided theory that because
their patient was uninsured, that patient should be CCHHS’ responsibility.

Page 4 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 25, 2014
Page 5

VI.

Report from Interim Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #2)
Dr. Shannon provided an update on the following subjects: CCHHS Central Campus Redevelopment; Stroger Hospital
Cafeteria Renovations; 2015 Budget Process; Kaiser Family Foundation brief on CCHHS early efforts in Medicaid
expansion; CountyCare applications update; Legislation: HR 4302 – Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014;
Special Events; Recent Media; and Employee Recognition.
Additionally, Dr. Shannon congratulated Dr. Terry Mason, Chief Operating Officer of CCDPH, regarding the
certification received from the Public Health Accreditation Board (PHAB); he noted that only 1% of the public health
departments in the country have achieved certification at this time. Dr. Mason thanked staff for their work on this twoyear effort that resulted in a five-year accreditation from PHAB. He added that there have been discussions with
representatives from the Illinois Department of Health (IDPH); it was agreed that the PHAB certification will also
suffice for State certification – every five years, when CCDPH applies for and receives PHAB certification, it will also
receive State certification.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. Discussion of personnel matters
C. Recruitment of Permanent Chief Executive Officer for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
D. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, April 18, 2014
Director Collens, seconded by Director Hammock, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings
Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the
public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(5), regarding “the purchase or lease of real property for
the use of the public body, including meetings held for the purpose of discussing whether a
particular parcel should be acquired,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an
action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before
a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes
of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or
settlement of claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort
Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or
the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice
or communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any
intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body
is a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or
formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.”

Page 5 of 24

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, April 25, 2014
Page 6

VII.

Closed Session Items (continued)
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Collens,
Gugenheim, Hammock, Lerner, Velasquez and Wiese (9)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Directors Morris and Muñoz (2)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened into
regular session.
Following the adjournment of closed session, the Board took action on the real estate matter
(Item IV(A) - see page 4).

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared that the meeting was ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 6 of 24

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
April 25, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 7 of 24

  

BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ANNA B. ASHCRAFT, J.D.

DIRECTOR, REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION

69 w. WASHINGTON, SUITE 3000 0 Chicago, Illinoi360602-4053 (312) 603-0040

 

TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRES I ENT
Cook County Board
of Commissioners

EARLEAN COLLINS
District

ROBERT STEELE
2nd District

JERRY BUTLER
3rd District

STANLEY MOORE
4th District

DEBORAH SIMS
5th District

JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY
6th District

JESUS G. GARCIA
7th District

EDWIN REYES
8th District

PETER N. SILVESTRI
9th District

BRIDGET GAINER
10th District

JOHN P. DALEY
11th District

JOHN A. FRITCHEY
12th District

LARRY SUFFREDIN
13th District

GREGG GOSLIN
14th District

TIMOTHY 0. SCHNEIDER
15th District

JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI
16th District

ELIZABETH ANN DOODY GORMAN
17th District

 

 

Transmitting a Communication, dated April 15, 2014 from
ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division

Requesting authorization to exercise an option to purchase real estate contained in a Lease
Agreement between the County of Cook, as Tenant, and the Hispanic Housing Development
Corporation (HHDC), as Landlord, for property located at 2424 S. Pulaski, Chicago, Illinois.

For the ?rst ten years of the lease, LGHS was responsible for the payment of the base rent and the
County was responsible for operating expenses, taxes and annual rent increases equal to 2% of
annual base rent. The County paid $2,500,000 for tenant improvements during the ?rst year of the
lease.

In 2004, the County became responsible for payment of all rent, taxes and operating due under the
terms of the lease for the remainder of the term. The lease expires November 30, 2014.

Under the terms of the lease, the County has the option to purchase the building at the end of the
lease term for $125,000 by giving Landlord written notice of County?s intent not later than June 1,
2014.

By exercising the option, the County and would save the annual base rent and real estate
taxes estimated to be $130,000 annually. An inspection has indicated that certain repairs and
upgrades to the property will be necessary, at a cost estimated to be in the range of $250,000,
however, these improvement costs can be spread out over several years.

If the Board approves the proposed acquisition, this approval shall include the following
authorization:

For the Real Estate Director to execute any and all notices under the Lease; and

(ii) For the President or the Real Estate Director to execute any and all documents and
instruments and to take such other action as may be necessary to effectuate the purchase of
2424 S. Pulaski, Chicago, Illinois.

For the Comptroller to pay the Purchase Price of $125,000 and Purchaser?s share of
customary closing costs and title charges up to $10,000.

 
   
  

This item is being submitted for approval by the Cook
meeting of May 21, 2014.

the

 

PROVED

APR 252014

Approval is respectfully recommended.

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

   

 

 

Fiscal Responsibility InnovaFtive Legdgr?ixp . Transparency 8: Accountability E, Improved Services
age 0

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
April 25, 2014

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 9 of 24

  

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
lg HOSPITALS SYSTEM



JOHN JAY SHANNON, MD

INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

April 25, 2014

The Cook County Department of Capital Pianning is leading the Central Campus
Redeveiopment. In keeping with Vision 2015, the goal is to create a feasible plan to better
utilize the campus taking into account future patient and staff needs. As the project moves
forward, the Board and staff will have the opportunity to weigh in during the process.

Renovations to the Stroger Hospital Cafeteria are complete.

The 2015 budget process is underway. System leadership is currently working on capital
requests. The President is expected to release the preliminary budget early summer.

The Kaiser Family Foundation recently published an issue brief on our early efforts in Medicaid
expansion. The brief is available on our website.

CountyCare applications continue. As of April 
154,000 applications initiated
0 95,190 applications approved
0 Neariy 3,000 applications approved that were initiated at the jail

Legislation: HR 4302 Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014

Sustainable Growth Rate: On April 1, 2014 President Obama signed into law HR 4302 
Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, a bill that created a one-year patch till April 2015, to
the Medicare physician payment system, preventing a 24 percent cut to Medicare physician
reimbursement. This is the 17th time the payment system has been patched in the past 11
years. In 1997, Congress created the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR), a system that restricted
the amount of money budgeted for Medicare payments to projected growth of the economy.
However, within a few years, health?care costs far outpaced economic growth creating a
multibillion-dollar shortfall in funding for Medicare payments. Since 2003, Congress has
approved "doc fix" bills that appropriate more money to Medicare funding in order to avoid cuts
in the Medicare reimbursement rates for doctors.

DSH: Included in HR 4302 was a further delay in cuts to Medicaid disproportionate share
hospital (DSH) payments, postponing them until federal fiscal year (FFY) 2017. This delay
contains a provision mandating an annual report by the Medicaid and CHIP (Children?s Health
insurance Program) Payment and Access Commission (MACPAC) on Medicaid DSH payments
that will provide an understanding for the future need for DSH payments. The report will collect
data relating to changes in the number of uninsured individuals; the amount and sources of

Page 10 of 24

 

hospitals? uncompensated care costs, including the amount of such costs that are the result of
providing unreimbursed or under-reimbursed services, charity care, or bad debt; identifying
hospitals with high levels of uncompensated care that also provide access to essential
community services for low-income, uninsured, and vulnerable populations, such as graduate
medical education, and the continuum of primary through quarternary care, including the
provision of trauma care and public health services; and State-specific analyses regarding the
relationship between the most recent State DSH allotment and the projected State DSH
allotment for the succeeding year. The first report is required to be submitted to Congress by'
February 1, 2016, subsequent reports shall be submitted through 2024.

- Also among other provisions in the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 was
a delay in the conversion to (next?generation medical coding system) by one year. The
transition from to code sets is to accommodate codes for new diseases and
procedures. The switch means that health care providers and insurers will have to change out
about 14,000 codes for about 69,000 codes. In August 2012, the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) released a final rule that had officially delayed the compliance
date from October 1, 2013, to October 1, 2014, in part to look at the incremental changes
needed in reforming health care. With the passage of HR 4302 the deadline for implementation
is now October 2015.

Special Events

- Provident Hospital For Men Only Health Wellness Fair, Saturday, April 26th from 11:00am 
2:00pm.

- Donate Life Month Press Conference with Secretary of State Jesse White and Cook County
Board President Toni Preckwinkle, Monday, April 28th at 10:00am in the Stroger Lobby.

Recent Media
- The Daily Whale and Crain's Chicago Business have run with Dr. Shannon.

- The Stroger Trauma Unit has been part of a number of stories around violence in Chicago
including CBS and ABC.

- The Sun-Times ran an op-ed piece from President Preckwinkle and Dr. Shannon on the
success of CountyCare enrollment at the Cook County Jail.

Employee Recognition

- This week we celebrated Administrative Professionals week and I have to tell you that we
have some of the best here at the I will not attempt to name them all but rather to
collectively thank each one of them for their commitment to the mission of the and
their unending patience with their respective teams. Many of the admins at assist
several members of the team which requires a certain amount of balance and a whole lot of
fortitude. We have asked a few of the admins that the Board may interact with to join us
this morning so if you haven?t put a face to a name, allow me to introduce 
Mitchell, Natasha Nickerson, LaTonya Seals, Yvette Blakely Alexander, Saliye Mayberry.

2 Page

Page 11 of 24

 

Daily Whale: wiLh DnlJohn Jay ShannonI 
interim CEO

Mon, 03/31/2014
ii}: Matthew Blake

 

Dr. John Jay Shannon, 53, was slated on Monday to begin serving as interim CEO of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System, a mammoth system taking steps to shed its reputation as simply an emergency provider
of last resort.

Just last Friday the Board approved a $1.8 billion contract for an company to help run
CountyCare, the managed health care plan started by departing CEO Dr. Ram Raju for Medicaid-eligible
residents under the Affordable Care Act.

Fiaju, in concert with Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle, focused on CountyCare and other
programs that could both reduce county taxpayers' burden and encourage patients to see as more
than just an emergency option. Raju?s three-year tenure won effusive praise for saving taxpayers money and
reviving leadership at a historically-maligned institution.

The former director of clinical integration, Shannon is expected to be interim CEO until the end of June
when the board picks a permanent replacement. Shannon has not said if he wants the permanent position,
noting that the selection process is dictated by the board.

Shannon previously helped lead Dallas?s Parkland Hospital, where he served as chief medical officer from 2007
to 2012. During that time period, Parkland ran into regulatory trouble, and the federal government took control
of the hospital system in 2011.

The Daily Whale recently sat down with Shannon to discuss, among other topics, Raju?s legacy, Parkland, and
the future of 

DW: Where did you grow up and how did you get into your current career?
JS: i actually grew up in the West Suburbs of Chicago in LaGrange. Big family I?m the eighth of 12.

I probably didn't decide about medicine as a career until college. My mom?s a nurse, and always had terrific
respect for her and the satisfaction she got out of [her job]. I went to medical school at Rush [in Chicago], and I
really didn?t set foot in a public hoSpital under the last four weeks of my medical school career. It was the last
thing i did [at medical school], and I did it as kind of a lark. But I ended up doing my residency at the public
system down in Dallas Parkland for my internal medicine training.

Parkland was a busy, urban hospital and [after my time there] i thought, well, maybe should do something at
the busy, urban hospital [Cook County Hospital] that We been walking past for four years. I got my start [at
Cook County Hospital] as a general internist after my residency, and I fell in with the general medicine division
at Cook County in the early 19905.

DW: Why work at large, public hospitals?

JS: You can?t help but work in an environment like that and start to take the personal experiences the patients
relate to you and not be affected by that. So even though I followed a kind of traditional trajectory, my [public
hospital time] had a big influence on what kind of issues and problems had me up at night thinking.

In my career, though We been across the spectrum from the poorest populations in the country to the
wealthiest populations, my personal interest has been more around the end of the spectrum where it looks like
people have been getting a raw deal. I always felt the greatest personal challenge, but also the greatest
personal rewards, were working with poor, urban populations.

DW: Describe your work prior to returning to Parkland in a hospital executive role in 2007. You worked at Cook
County Hospitals from 1990 to 2007, correct?

Page 12 of 24

 

JS: Yes, but I worked [at Cook County Hospitals] in separate chunks. I did two years when I was in general
internal medicine, kind of doing primary care. I also did 12 years as an internal medicine specialist, so I was
here from 1995 to 2007 as a specialist in lung diseases and critical care.

was unexpectedly given an opportunity back at the place I trained in Dallas in 2007, and that was kind of a
career left turn. It was a leadership role at a place that I had very strong allegiances and feelings for because I
had my residency training there.

But the role of chief medical officer was a very different role. It took me away from what I had been
predominantly doing around clinical care, delivery, education, and teaching and took me toward a focus of
organizational leadership.

DW: Was Parkland your first experience in hospital administrative leadership?

JS: It was at that scale. I had been in leadership roles [Ed. note: At Cook County?s Department of Medicine,
Shannon helped develop new departmental strategies], but they had been at smaller levels. When did my five
years as chief medical officer at Parkland, it was for their entire health system.

DW: The federal government took over Parkland in 2011. What did you learn from that experience? [Ed. note:
In 2011, the U.S. Center for Medicare Services put the Parkland hospital system under a federal monitor. Over
the next year, reports from the monitor documented serious health and safety violations at Parkland]

JS: The further I get away from it, my view from that experience does change.

First of all, the decision to go there was a difficult one. I was uprooting my family and moving farther way from
family and friends. was taking on a pretty challenging role and not one that I had played before.

I?m grateful to that the institution and the people I worked with. I developed invaluable experience with
organizational structures, clinical operations, and how to find, attract, and motivate talented leaders.

It was a time when you got to see the best and the worst of leadership behavior. Although, I?m not happy what
happened to the organization or to me personally, when [the federal takeover] happened, after kind of the initial
shock of it, there were a couple of choices: leave or ramp up your energy level and try to fix the problems that
were at hand. My own approach was to try to everything I could to help the organization be successful.

I was the last member of the executive team to leave. I was down there for the patients we were serving. And
whether we were in a good light or bad light at the time, you had to compartmentalize that and do the work at
hand. [Amid all our rebuilding], we were stiil an organization where we saw 500 people come in a day, sick as a
dog, and we're delivering 350 babies and have 2,000 ambulatory visits a day.

It- was an intensely busy environment that didn't allow you to just go in a hole and say, "We?re going to do some
fixing We?re going to re-open the shop in six months." You had to fix it while you were on the fly.

It gave me a real chance to learn the dynamics between institutions. Everything from trustees to politicians
at state, local and county levels to academic affiliates to individual leaders in the organization.

It?s not an experience you would choose to have, but I learned a lot. I learned a little bit about myself, and 
learned a lot about my wife?s tolerance which is almost infinite.

DW: In selecting you as interim CEO, Board Chairman David Carvahlo defended your role at Parkland as one
of the ?good guys" who tried to productively work with federal monitors. Why did you eventually leave then 
was it your choice to leave?

JS: It was my choice. I started to reflect a bit on how much I?m asking of my family. At a certain level it was
starting to be more about me than it was about my family. [My family situation] really, at the end of it, told me it
was time to move on and look for another opportunity.

DW: What brought you back to Cook County?

Page 13 of 24

 

JS: i came back at the end of 2012. To me, the kind of energizing and attracting feature was a new, very
purposeful county president, who I have gigantic respect for, clearly setting a new direction for how the county
is going to operate.

met Dr. Ftaju through some mutual friends and talked to him a little bit about what's going on. I really got the
notion that [Cook County Hospitals] is a totally different kind of place. To me that was very exciting. We also
got a system board in place [in 2008] a competent system board with pretty good processes in place.

Those things were absent when I left in 2007 and they were part of the reason I left. I think if what was
happening here in 2012 was happening here in 2007, I?m not sure I would have gone to Dallas.

DW: What will you focus on as interim 

JS: Dr. Raju did absolutely phenomenal and critical work in a couple of areas. He turned us around financially,
he gave us a vision; he established a leadership team that was not present when he got here.

He re-established credibility for the organization. i need to continue that. How do we as an organization
continue to develop the things that are necessary [to run] a managed care plan? it?s a new skill for us. And 
do we intersect the finances of a managed care plan with the finances of a health care system that is partially
supported by taxpayer dollars?

The other piece - this is not only because of my experience in Dallas, but it?s largely driven by my experience
in Dallas we have to absolutely make sure that we?re delivering safe, high-quality care to patients.

Patients are not stupid, and they will find a way to get care at a place that treats them well and with respect.
We?ve got to find a way to be a health plan of choice and not one of last resort. The people who got into the
ACA in 2013 under CountyCare, they did it because it was the only rope they could grab. [Ed. note: A federal
waiver extended ACA Medicaid eligibility early for patients who enrolled in CountyCare. Medicaid expansion
started for the entire state Jan. This year they?re going to have a couple of ropes out in front of them, and
they could grab one of the other ones.

And we?re going to have to make serious investments, as an organization, in the people and the tools to
develop that. We've got to make much, much bigger steps in the development of our staff.

DW: How can you make such a staff investment, though, when the county president and county board control
your budget?

JS: Well, we have to make the compelling case. It?s really important for our board to articulate to the county
commissioners why it is that we need what we need, when we need it. We?re not going to be successful in
these bold goals that We outlined if we don?t find a way to find the, if you will, dollars any good company
does to invest in itself.

DW: How dependent is on the policy dictates of the county board president? What happens to
CountyCare and the whole re-build of if, for example, Precwkinkle runs for mayor in 2015 and a new
county president comes in?

JS: There's no question that a gigantic amount of the success in obtaining the waiver and then delivering on it
was due to the alignment. [of the] talent and dedication and drive of both President Preckwinkle and Dr.
Raju.

County board presidents just like health system CEOs, though, are not irreplaceable. I'm hoping President
Preckwinkle wants to serve for 20 years. But if she chooses to go down a different career path, we can?t just all
start crying about it. We got to figure out how do we get the right person in there. At the end of the day, that?s
really up to the voters. We?ve got to do a good job of communicating how critical this health system is to the
community.

It's not just this thing on the West Side that, thank god, it exists if I get shot or get in a car accident. It?s a
community asset in a million different ways and it?s up to the leadership of the organization to make that case
very clearly to the pubiic.

Page 14 of 24

 

It?s when the [county board and leadership systems are not aligned that we get into big, big trouble.
DW: A job as executive of Cook County Hospitals sounds exceedingly stressful. What do you do to relax?
JS: We got a big family. i like spending time with them. I like to bike.

DW: Where does your family live?

JS: They?re mostly around here. So We got 11 siblings, two of them are on the East Coast, but everybody else
is around here so we get together a lot.

And my wife and are in the South Loop. We?re semi-empty nesters We have three [now adult] kids two
sons and a daughter.

Crain?s: What is Cook County Health's interim CEO thinking?


By Kristen Schorsch,? April 15, 2014

As a college junior, John Jav Shannon got a taste of his future life as a physician. He biked from his apartment to a
small hospital in Mobile, Ala., where he worked for about a year, performing tasks on nights and weekends that, he
recalls, nobody else wanted to do.

Among the duties: shaving patients the night before their surgeries. The practice no longer is typically done since it
increases the likelihood of getting an infection at the surgical site, he said.

?Almost everything that I did then has been shown to be either a bad practice, or it's something we don't do
anymore,? said Dr. Shannon, 54. ?It's very interesting to see how medicine-changes over time.?

Dr. Shannon, who spent 15 years in the Cook Countv Health Hospitals Svstem between various stints, was

. second-in-command behind Dr. Ramanathan Raiu until about two weeks ago, when the chief executive departed
for a new gig in New York after leading Cook County Health for about two-and-a-half years. Dr. Shannon, a
champion of helping improve the health of asthmatic patients, took over as interim CEO.

The Cook County system, one of the largest public health systems in the country, treats a disproportionately large
portion of poor and uninsured patients. The two-hospital network includes John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital on the Near
West Side, Provident Hospital on the South Side and a network of clinics.

in a recent interview with Crain's, Dr. Shannon highlighted his immediate goals: keeping the momentum going for
two landmark initiatives Dr. Raju spearheaded - launching and expanding an innovative Medicaid program called
CountyCare, and sellinq an HMO product on the Illinois Health Insurance Marketplace this fall.

His other goal is more personal: to make his temporary position permanent.

The son of a nurse and a plastic film salesman, Dr. Shannon is the eighth of 12 children. ?i come from a really big
family,? Dr. Shannon said. "We talk a lot. We laugh a lot. You have to kind of get a word in edgewise."

Here, in this edited transcript, he gets his say:
Crain's: You've only been in your interim role for a short time, but how has your life changed?

Dr. Shannon: I think for me the part that has changed is certainly having a better understanding of all the things that
Dr. Raju was doing that was not doing.That's a pretty big book of business. Dr. Raju left the organization in far

Page 15 of 24

 

better shape than he found it two years earlier. And so l'm lucky to be leading the organization at a time when i think
we've got an established vision. I think we're in far better financial shape than we were in 2011. We're still filling out
a few pieces of that, but we've got a good leadership team in place.

The other thing that Dr. Raju was able to do that I hope l'll be able to maintain is to kind of establish credibility as an
important part of the health care delivery system for the region and a place that plays an important role, that isn't an
afterthought to the academic health centers and to the big private non-for-profits.

You mentioned Dr. Raju's big book of business. Can you provide an example of initiatives he was doing that
you weren't?

Dr. Shannon: The integration and continued evolution of the managed care program that is CountyCare.
How are things going with CountyCare and creating a product to sell on the exchange?

Dr. Shannon: It's really fun to look back on the past year. I joined the organization in the last week of February of
2013, and we were literally setting up shop. I remember, you know, celebrating because we had 100 members. We
are now over 90,000 card-carrying members, which is just an unbelievable accomplishment.

We are continuing to pursue an HMO license. A very substantial proportion of people who are in Medicaid will earn
enough money to fall out of eligibility for Medicaid, and similarly people who are working at the lower end of the
economic spectrum may lose work and fall into Medicaid eligibility. As those transitions are happening, we don't
want people to be falling in and out of care.

At what stage are you with getting the license from the state?

Dr. Shannon: Actually that's a separate piece. We first have to get a resolution passed by the General Assembly
that allows us as a county to get and hold an HMO license. That's kind of working its way through our policy and our
legislative point peeple. And in the meantime, if we needed to we could lease a license.

When do you think the General Assembly will sign off on a bill to license the county?
Dr. Shannon: That's one of those things that's always in flux. It's a busy year. It's an election year.

A permanent CEO could be named within a few months. It's not a lot of time to be interim, so how do you
envision your role?

Dr. Shannon: As interim my most important role is to keep the organization moving, keep it moving on the
strategies that we've got laid out for this year.The fact that the CEO leaves, it doesn't mean that we go into a state of
suspended animation.

Do you have any changes in mind that you would like to make?

Dr. Shannon: It's not a stabilizing behavior to come in and say, now that guy's gone. Here's what l'm going to
do.? As mentioned a little bit ago, I think Dr. Raju set out a very audacious, but a very doable plan. And so I am
trying to keep the focus of the organization on the execution of that plan. We will not be incorporating any significant
deviations from that plan.

If the Cook County hospital board asked you to be the permanent CEO, would you take the job?
Dr. Shannon: If they asked me to be the chief executive officer, 1 would.
What do see as some of the challenges on your plate?

Dr._Shannon: 2013 was the can-we-enroll-them in CountyCare year. in 2014 a big focus is on how are we
delivering care, and are we delivering on the promise of a managed care plan. That is, are we delivering high-quality
Page 16 of 24

 

care in a coordinated way? It's actually improving the health of these individuals who were previously uninsured.
That's a big deal and it's a significant challenge.

You're also still chief of clinical integration, overseeing patient care and quality. How are you juggling both
of these large roles?

Dr. Shannon: We've brought on very competent leadership over operations of ambulatory, over operations of
hospital-based services. We have a dynamic and I think very effective nursing executive who's helping to coordinate
functions there. And other members of the team are being brought on so that different from when I joined a year
ago, we have both a broader and a stronger supporting cast that's helping.

In a recent interview on WTTW's ?Chicago Tonight,? you mentioned lessons you learned as chief medical
officer of Parkland Health Hospital System, a Dallas system that the federal Centers for Medicare 
Medicaid Services deemed 'an immediate and serious threat to patient health and safety.? Can you shed
some light on those lessons and how you're applying them here? 

Dr. Shannon: When you're working in an urban safety-net environment, you don't have the ability to turn on or turn
off the demand spigot, which other organizations do. So that when problems come up, you have to fix them at the
same time that you're responding to the care needs and demands of the community that you serve. That's a real
challenge for people who work in public health because the demand always outstrips your ability to meet it.

And so I try to look at the things that we're trying to do both within our health system and within the context of
CountyCare and say, 'How do assure that the care that we give is going to be reliable, that it's going to be safe??
Patients have got to have an experience that's so good that not only will they say no when they are buffeted by
requests to jump to another system of care, but in fact that they become our proselytizers.

Page 17 of 24

 

Sun-Times Op-Ed: Help arriving for jailed mentally ill

By Toni Preckwinkle Dr. Jon Jay Shannon

April 20, 2014

More than 92,000 Cook County residents who did not have health insurance a year ago now are covered by CountyCare.

The Cook County Health and Hospitals System created CountyCare to early enroll individuals in Medicaid who are newly
eligible including low-income, single adults without dependent children under the federal Affordable Care Act. In
addition to medical benefits, CountyCare covers mental health and substance abuse treatment.

CountyCare is uniquely positioned to provide coverage to individuals involved in our criminal justice system, because the
expanded Medicaid population mirrors the makeup and the needs ofa large portion of the people in the Cook County
jail.

Based on our experience, roughly 20 percent of the people entering the Cook County jail suffer from mental illness,
which often coincides with substance abuse.

CountyCare gives us an opportunity to provide access to healthcare to people being released from jail, which is in the
interest of public health and public safety.

We?ve seen firsthand what a study released last week by the Treatment Advocacy Center proved: prisons and jails have
become America?s "new asylums." It found that the number of individuals with serious mental illness in prisons and jails
exceeds the number of people in state hospitals tenfold. In 44 states the biggest mental health institution is a
prison orjail, according to the study. And three facilities including the Cook County jail house more inmates with
serious mental illness than all the state hospitals in their respective states.

We can provide episodic care at the jail by stabilizing individuals and making sure they get their proper medications. But
individuals? long term needs, especially when it comes to mental health, go far beyond the care we can administer at
that facility.

- Now, with CountyCare coverage, when people leave the jail we have a way to ensure they have access to health care.
Our partners, including Sheriff Tom Dart, the state Medicaid program and the advocacy organization Treatment
Alternatives for Safe Communities, are all equally committed to the cause.

When we started the program at the jail last April, we focused our screening process on individuals charged with
nonviolent offenses who had low bonds. A year later roughly 3,200 of our overall CountyCare enrollment stems from
people who applied at the jail.

We know that giving this population an insurance card isn?t enough. They need access to care once they are released
and re-enter the community. Our continual goal is to make sure they are linked with a doctor, have access to
prescriptions and continue behavioral health counseling and other treatment.

Our hope is that by providing health?care coverage, we will ultimately reduce recidivism. Through CountyCare, we have
the potential to change the makeup of the jail population, decrease the burden on local taxpayers, and ensure that the

most vulnerable patients have access to coordinated care.

Toni Preckwinkle is president of the Cook County Board. Dr. John Jay Shannon is interim CEO for the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System.

Page 18 of 24

 

Doctor: Child Gunshot Victims Make It 'Personal'

April 21, 2014

(CBS) -?Many of this weekend?s shooting victims ended up at Stroger Hospital on the West Side.
CBS 2?s Dorothy Tucker spent the day in the emergency room talking with those on the front lines.
This weekend, at least 44 people were shot in Chicago. More than a third were rushed to Stroger.
Dr. Fred Starr was there, in the thick of the trauma, when 14 gunshot victims came in.

Most were men, he says, in their twenties and thirties.

?But when the children come in, they?re in the wrong place at the wrong time and I think that is the biggest tragedy,?
Starr says.

Eleven?year-old Tymisha Washington came in Sunday night with three gunshot wounds. Two were life-threatening.
It hit home for Dr. Starr.

?l have two daughters of my own about that same age, and it makes it very personal,? he says.

Prof. Shahram Dana teaches criminal law at John Marshall. His opinion:

"It has a lotto do with the economy. I think it has to do with how easy guns are accessible We?ve become desensitized
to violence.?

When you see the violence every day, like Dr. Starr, ?You focus on taking care of people and doing the best you can,? he
says.

Stroger sees more gunshot victims than almost any in the country. Last year alone, 6,500 trauma patients rushed
through these doors 650 had been shot.

Park Manor drive-by injures 5 children near 67th and Michigan

April 21, 2014 (CHICAGO) (WLS) -- Two girls, 11 and 15 years old, remain hospitalized after a drive?by shooting in which
three other children were also wounded.

Someone inside a vehicle opened fire near 67th and Michigan around 7:40 pm. Sunday. Police said the suspects asked if
any of the children had gang ties and opened fire before thy answered.

just saw people getting shot. Then l'm trying to push people like my little brother and them in front of me, and tell
them to run and, stuff like that, and by the time I tried to run I just got shot in my leg. And I fell and Ii just saw my little
cousin getting shot," Jamante White, 14, said. He was shot in the leg and treated and released at the hospital.

His cousin, 11-year~old Tymisha Washington, was shot twice and remains hospitalized in serious condition.

"The younger patient, who is 11, she was shot in the chest and neck. She required a little more work on our part. We
had to put a tube in to drain blood from her lung, as well as re-inflate her lung," Dr. Frederic Starr, Stroger Hospital, said.

Page 19 of 24

 

Three other girls, all 15 or younger, suffered less serious injuries. One of them also remains hospitalized with a wound to
the wrist.

No one is in custody in the shooting. The children's grandmother said they do not have gang ties, and they had just left
church to play in the park.

"Why shoot innocent children that's just trying to live day to day. Why try to kill them?" Rebecca Washington,
grandmother, said. "I'm just devastated my grandchildren can't even have a Sunday. Go to church, enjoy God's service,
and then can't go outside to play without getting shot."

Deadly weekend in Chicago; St. Sabina's hosts vigil

Nine people were shot to death and 35 were injured in shootings over the weekend, according to Chicago police.
"We've had, unfortunately, a bad week. It doesn't wipe out what?s happened over the last two years. But it's certainly a
wakeup call that we have a lot of work to do," Chicago Police Supt. Garry McCarthy said while at a graduation for new
Chicago police of?cers. He said a complex strategy is in place to combat violence.

Community activist Father Michael Pfleger called upon parents and children to gather at St. Sabina Parish, 7800 South
Racine, on the city's South Side for a vigil at 6 pm. The church released a statement, "This is unacceptable! Violence

cannot be an option and warm weather cannot lead to a loss of lives."

Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel is expected to attend the peace vigil.

Page 20 of 24

 



Iii? 0 

Medicaidand' the uninsured

 

Filling the need for trusted information on health 

April 2014 I Issue Brief

Profiles of Medicaid Outreach and Enrollment Strategies:
The Cook County Early Expansion Initiative

Samantha Artiga

Introduction

In late 2012, Illinois obtained a Section 1115 demonstration waiver that allowed the state to get an early start on
the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Medicaid expansion for adults in Cook County. Named ?CountyCare,? the
demonstration was designed to help the state and Cook County Health and Hospitals System build
capacity and experience to support implementation of the expansion in 2014 and get a jump-start on
enrollment. Cook County, Illinois encompasses 132 municipalities including the City of Chicago and has a total
population of 5.2 million people, accounting for over 40 percent of all Illinois residents.? Over 618,000
uninsured adults are estimated to be eligible for the Medicaid expansion in Illinois, with over 341,000 of
them residing in Cook County.2 serves as a key safety-net provider for the low-income uninsured
population in Cook County and is the third largest

 

public hospital system in the nation.3 Flaum
Total Number of Enrollees in CountyCare,

. . . . March 2013 to Februar 2014
brlef prov1des an overv1ew of the CountyCare 

waiver experience, which may help inform continued
efforts as the Medicaid expansion is implemented 71.510
across states. It ?nds that, in just over 12 months, 62'9?
more than 82,000 Cook County residents successfully
enrolled in CountyCare coverage, allowing the state

79.960 "1?37 32"?
75,939

   
   
  

54,585

35,155
26,202

 

 

and county to get a signi?cant jump start on the 15,333
I I I I 9,341
Medlcald expansmn (Figure implemented 1
Marlin: Hy A Set on' Jan Feb
the full Medicaid expanswn In January 2014 and .1: 
automatically transitioned countycare enrollees to SOURCE: State of Illinois through communications Cook County Health and Hospitals I
System.

the expansion. As of March 2014, CountyCare

 

members account for nearly half of the total statewide enrollment of adults into the Medicaid expansion.5

Overview of the CountyCare Waiver

On October 26, 2012, Illinois received approval from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)
for its Cook CountyCare Section 1115 demonstration waiver, which allowed the state to expand coverage to
adults with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level (FPL), who reside in Cook County. Eligibility
for CountyCare is limited to adults age 19-64, who meet citizenship and immigration status requirements and
do not qualify for Medicare or Medicaid or CHIP. When initially implemented, CountyCare members were

Page 21 of 24

 



covered for a broad range of services provided through sites and a network of community providers
contracted with to provide care under the waiver, similar to a managed care plan.

APPLICATION AND ENROLLMENT

Between February 2013 and February 2014, more than 113,000 applications were submitted for
CountyCare, with more than 82,000 approved and approximately 18,000 pending review.6 The
remaining applications were denied for a variety of reasons including the applicant having income above the
eligibility limit, being eligible for regular Medicaid, or the application missing information needed to process
the determination. 

To enroll in CountyCare, individuals apply through a CountyCare application assister. Prior to
initiating a full application, application assisters ask individuals six screening questions to determine if they
will likely be eligible for CountyCare. This pre-screening process contributed to a high approval rate for
submitted applications, with over eight in ten submitted applications for CountyCare approved.7

Application assisters are available at locations across the county and through a call center. Some
375 CountyCare application assisters are located at 92 geographically dispersed sites throughout the county
including sites and Federally Quali?ed Health Centers contracted to provide services as part
of the CountyCare provider network under the waiver.8 In addition, established a call center through
which individuals can apply for CountyCare, which is open weekdays from 8:00am to 8:00pm and Saturdays
from 9:00am to 2:00pm.9 Through the call center, application assisters complete the CountyCare application
and then mail a signature page and self-addressed stamped envelope to applicants to return with necessary
documentation. Over half of all applications have been initiated through the call center. Over 100 state
eligibility caseworkers were hired to process applications submitted for CountyCare. These applications are
processed centrally through an Illinois Department of Human Services local eligibility of?ce. Cook County
contributes the non?federal share of funding to cover the costs of administering the waiver.

OUTREACH

Broad outreach for County Care was conducted through a variety of avenues including earned
media, primarily through neighborhood newspapers and digests; posters and flyers; and
community outreach events. For example, local pastors and community leaders visited over 300 places of
worship to educate people about CountyCare. In addition, CountyCare application assisters participated in an
event hosted by the City of Chicago that brought together freelance musicians and artists, many of whom were
uninsured and eligible for CountyCare.

In addition, targeted outreach was provided to uninsured patients at and network
health centers who were likely eligible for CountyCare. These patients received recorded calls that
advised them about CountyCare and offered to connect them directly to the call center to begin an application.
Health center staff also provided information about CountyCare to patients in waiting rooms.

Outreach was also conducted through other areas of Cook County government. For example,
information was included with paychecks to staff as a general education tool. Probation of?cers were

Profiles of Medicaid Outreach and Enroilment Strategies: The Cook County Early Expansion Initiative 2
Page 22 of 24

 

also provided with information and training on CountyCare eligibility requirements, the application process,
bene?ts, and network to help connect their clients to coverage. Further, local elected of?cials, including County
Commissioners and Chicago Aldermen of?ces included information about CountyCare in their newsletters and
communications to district residents.

An initiative was also established to assist detainees in applying for CountyCare while going
through the Cook County Jail intake process. This partnership effort between the Cook County
Sheriff, and Treatment Alternatives for Safe Communities, a local non-profit organization, resulted in over
13,700 initiated applications. About 4,400 of these applications have been submitted and over 2,400
individuals have enrolled. 

CONNECTING COUNTYCARE ENROLLEES TO CARE

Once an individual is determined eligible for CountyCare, he or she receives a welcome call and
is asked to select a medical home and make an initial appointment for care. Many individuals
enrolling in CountyCare need help understanding how to use their health coverage and the role of their primary
care provider since they may not have previous experience with health coverage. Individuals have been
enthusiastic about the coverage opportunity, particularly to gain coverage for physician and hospital services
and prescription drugs. Overall, there are signi?cant health needs among individuals enrolled in CountyCare,
with many requiring case management and supportive services. As more understanding is gained about the
health needs of the population, intends to develop initiatives for care coordination that will build upon
the existing and assets within the CountyCare provider network.

Transition to the 2014 Medicaid Expansion

As of January 2014, Illinois expanded Medicaid under the ACA to include adults with incomes
at or below 138% FPL. Prior to the expansion, Illinois already covered parents with incomes up to this level,
but other adults without disabilities were not eligible, regardless of their income level.

CountyCare enrollees were automatically transitioned to the Medicaid expansion. Individuals
enrolled in CountyCare did not need to reapply for coverage under the expansion as the state obtained federal
approval to administratively enroll CountyCare members into the new adult expansion group. Moreover, when
the expansion took effect, bene?ts for CountyCare members were expanded to align with the Medicaid bene?ts
package provided to all expansion adults. Additional services covered under this bene?t package include
optometry care and eyeglasses, as well as audiology services. In addition, individuals who reside in Cook
County and are eligible under the Medicaid expansion now have the option to continue to obtain services
through the CountyCare provider network or may opt-out to receive care through any of the state?s Medicaid
providers.

CMS approved the state?s request to temporarily extend the CountyCare waiver to June 30,
2014. This extension enables the state to continue using the same per member per month payment
methodology it had been using under the waiver for services provided through the CountyCare provider
network. The experience with this payment methodology is intended to help inform the state?s preparations to
establish capitation rates as it transitions its overall Medicaid population in Cook County to managed care.

Profiles of Medicaid Outreach and Enrollment Strategies: The Cook County Early Expansion initiative 3
Page 23 of 24

 

 

Beginning as of February 2014 and phasing in over time, Medicaid bene?ciaries in Cook County and other
counties throughout Illinois will be asked to choose a managed care plan or coordinated care network. Those
who do not make an active choice will be auto-assigned into a plan. CountyCare is intended to be available as a
plan option as enrollees are transitioned to managed care plans.

also is developing several low-cost private insurance plans that will be offered through
the new Health Insurance Marketplace. The goal of these plans is to support continuity of care for
individuals who move between Medicaid and Marketplace coverage. These private plans will build upon the
structure of the current CountyCare network and will be available for purchase during the 2014-2015 open
enrollment period.

Co cl i on

Overall, Illinois was able to get a signi?cant early jump start on its Medicaid expansion through the CountyCare
waiver. Individuals successfully enrolled in coverage by applying both in-person with application assisters and
through the call center and were connected to medical homes to help coordinate their care. Looking ahead, the
state is seeking to build upon some of the successful CountyCare outreach and enrollment initiatives as it
implements the broader ACA Medicaid expansion.

 

This issue brief is part of a Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured series of pro?les on
Medicaid and CHIP Outreach and Enrollment Strategies. The author extends her appreciation to Kathy
Chan with the Cook County Health and Hospitals System for providing the data and information used in
this report.

 

 

End notes

 

United States Census Bureau, ?State and County Quick Facts,? hm): 17/ 17033.1111111 and Cook
County Clerk, ?Municipality Maps,? 1111 02/ laboutus/map room paaes/ mu nicipalitvmaDsaspx.

2 ?Visualizing Health Care Reform,? IllinoisHealthMatters,? hm): 
3 ?Dr. Raju?s Op Ed in Crain?s,? Press Releases, http://mx 

4 CEO Report to the Board of Directors, February 28, 2014, uploads 201'), 12/ 02,
Item VI, CEO Report.

5 Presentation on ACA adult enrollment numbers statewide at Care Coordination Subcommittee meeting on February 4, 2014

6 CEO Report to the Board of Directors, op cit. Some enrollees were able to receive up to three months of retroactive coverage,
so their coverage effectively began as of November 2012.

7 Finance Committee November 29, 2013 Meeting Minutes, http: 2011/01 12?
pg. 3

a CountyCare Providers, 
9 HOW to Apply, CountyCare, lit .?rollnh 

'0 State of Illinois through communications with Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

 

The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation Headquarters: 2400 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, CA 94025 Phone 65o?854?94oo 1 Fax 650?854-4800
Washington Of?ces and Barbara Jordan Conference Center: 1330 Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005 Phone 202?347-5270 Fax 202-347-5274 

The Kaiser Family Foundation, a leader in health policy analysis, health journalism and communication, is dedicated to ?lling the need for trusted, independent information
on the major health issues facing our nation and its people. The Foundation is a non-pro?t private operating foundation, based in Menlo Park, California.

Page 24 of 24

