COOK COUNTY

HEALTH

JOHN .IAY SHANNON, MD

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 26, 2018

 

Employee Recognition

Dr. Denise Cunill, medical director of Logan Square Health Center and associate medical director of ambulatory
pediatrics, received the Special Achievement Award from the American Academy of Pediatrics for distinguished service
and dedication to the mission and goals of The Academy. She demonstrated extraordinary advocacy for children and
families through her dedication to the Illinois Chapter of American Pediatrics projects including child and adolescent
health and development, literacy, trauma-informed care, food insecurity, and cultural competence.

Dr. Rami Doukky, chief of cardiology has been named an associate editor and Dr. Saurabh Malhotra, director of
advanced cardiac catheterization named a guest editor in the Journal of Nuclear Cardiology, the official journal of the
American Society of Nuclear Cardiology and the world leading journal in the field of nuclear cardiology.

Both Drs. Doukky and Malhotra have been elected to serve on the Board of Directors for the American Society of
Nuclear Cardiology, the highest governing body of this national organization. Drs. Doukky and Malhotra will bring their
nuclear cardiology and cardiac imaging expertise to CCH patients to improve quality of care, decrease unnecessary
resource utilization and reduce length of stay of patients with known or suspected heart disease.

Activities and Announcements

Ophthalmology and Dermatology officially welcomed their first patients in the new Professional Building on
October 22, 2018. Phase two of the clinical moves will take place on October 29, 2018 while staff moving to the
administrative floors will do so in early November. The mosaic dedication was held on October 19th and the
Ribbon Cutting will occur at 10AM on October 28?. Community tours will occur on Saturday, November 3rd from
9-11AM.

IMPACT 2020 Objective 1.2

0 Cook County Health joined Senator Richard Durbin?s Chicago HEAL initiative which is aimed at reducing
violence and improving health in Chicago's most underserved neighborhoods. The Chicago HEAL (Hospital
Engagement, Action, and Leadership) Initiative is a collaboration between major Chicago hospitals, convened
and supported by Senator Durbin, to make tangible commitments to reduce gun violence, heal the physical and
mental trauma that violence inflicts on victims, increase well-paying jobs and create other economic
opportunities in the neighborhoods they serve. Other participating hospitals include: Advocate Christ Medical
Center; AMITA Health?s Saints Mary and Elizabeth Medical Center; Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children?s Hospital of
Chicago; Cook County Health and Hospital System; Loyola University Medical Center; Northwestern Memorial
Hospital; Rush University Medical Center; Sinai Health System; University of Chicago Medical Center; University
of Hospital and Health Sciences Systems

IMPACT 2020 Objectives 6.2, 6.3, 7.0

 2018 marks the the 20th Anniversary of the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center. On November 15?, a press
conference will be held at 10AM to discuss the important role CORE has played since the beginning of the AIDS
epidemic. That same evening, a reception will be held from 4:30 Both events will be held at the CORE
Center, 2020 W. Harrison Avenue.

0 Through October 4, 2018 Fresh Truck partnership with the Greater Chicago Food Depository (GCFD)
has resulted in 144 visits to 12 health centers Austin, Cicero, the CORE Center, Cottage Grove,
Englewood, Logan Square, Near South, Oak Forest, Prieto, Robbins, Woodlawn, and Provident/Sengstacke. The
move to a permanent Vista Health Center location has delayed the staff training and start date for the Fresh
Truck, which is now expected to take place by the end of (.11 of 2019.

Collectively, the Fresh Truck distributions have resulted in the provision of fresh fruits and vegetables to 17,812
individuals, representing 58,778 household members, totaling more than 400,000 pounds of fresh produce.
Most of the individuals benefiting from the Fresh Truck screened positive for food insecurity at a health
center visit.

2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

CountyCare has launched a new marketing campaign aimed at
member retention and new member recruitment as the choice
period has commenced for Medicaid enrollees. The advertising 
campaign includes billboards, transit, outdoor and digital 0M. dm?f
advertising including three new video vignettes as well as :15 Mil/6 time 7607?
and :30 commercials. The campaign, in English and Spanish, will 5! Sick 
run through 1019. VI

Be healthy with

messto 50 hospitals,

IMPACT 2020 Objective 3.7 y, - l1333533335333)?m.
Fresh Markets are operating outdoors through the early
fall. The Markets will continue to operate on a weekly basis and
will move indoors as the weather gets colder.
0 Oak Forest Health Center on Wednesdays, 9am-2pm
0 Robbins Health Center on Thursdays, 11am-3pm
0 Cottage Grove Health Center on Fridays, 9am-2pm

 

Fresh produce is supplied by Black Oaks Center, a nonprofit that
seeks to create a just, holistic, and local food system through education, entrepreneurship, and access to
healthy, affordable foods. CCH partners with Experimental Station?s Link Up Link Match program to offer
SNAP users with a match on all purchases at Fresh Markets, up to SZO/market/week.

2020 Objectives 1.1, 6.2, 6.3, 7.4

The Cook County Health Foundation Associate Board will hold its annual fundraising event on Friday,
November 9, 2018 at mHub. This year?s event will benefit women and children?s health at The invitation
is attached.

(Select materials and media clips attached)

2 Page

Legislative Update

Local

State

Federal

The Cook County Board Committee on Finance conducted Department Review hearings on the FY2019 budget
the week of October 22, 2018. The hearing on FY19 Budget took place on Thursday, October 25, 2018.
Dr. Shannon presented and responded to questions from Commissioners. Chairman Hammock participated in
the hearing as well as members of the Leadership team. In addition, Director Gugenheim attended the hearing.

On October 5, 2018, the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) filed emergency rules to implement PA 100-
1029, which eliminates ?philosophical or moral reluctance" as reasons that a healthcare employee can decline a
flu shot. The emergency rules align state administrative code with PA 100?1029 flu shot legislation) and
are effective September 18, 2018. IDPH states that the emergency rules ?will provide health care settings the
ability to implement vaccination programs consistent with the statute for the 2018-19 influenza season.?

On October 12, the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) published draft rules (see pages
18242 18284) concerning the implementation of Integrated Health Homes (IHHs). IHHs are a new, fully?
integrated form of care coordination for Medicaid beneficiaries. Starting in November, managed care plans will
start to conduct outreach to their members in the top IHH tiers to assist them in choosing an IHH.

The Illinois Department of Public Health published an Illinois Maternal Morbidity and Mortality Report. The
report summarized findings from reviews of maternal deaths in 2015, and offered recommendations to address
maternal mortality, including:
0 Expanding Medicaid eligibility for women beyond the 60 day postpartum period, to one year after
delivery.
0 Ensuring insurance coverage of case management and outreach for postpartum high-risk women for
one year after delivery.
0 Creating or expanding home visiting programs to target high-risk mothers.
0 Increasing access to behavioral health services for pregnant and postpartum women.
0 Unbundling insurance payments of postpartum visit services from labor and delivery.

The House Health Care Availability and Access Committee will hold a second hearing on October 30, 2018 at
10am to discuss the high rates of infant and maternal mortality among African Americans in Illinois. CCH
submitted written comments and Dr. Terry Mason presented oral testimony at the first committee meeting that
took place in September.

The 2018/19 ACA Marketplace open enrollment period will start November 1, 2018 and end December 15, 2018.
Similar to last year, there is minimal federal funding for Illinois organizations to provide proactive assistance with
Marketplace outreach and enrollment efforts,.and little to no paid marketing to inform customers about the
open enrollment.

The Illinois General Assembly Fall Veto Session is scheduled for November 13-15 and November 27-29.

On September 26, 2018 the House cleared the conference report for the FY 2019 Labor-HHS-Education
appropriations bill, packaged together with the FY 2019 Department of Defense appropriations bill as the third
?minibus? (H.R. 6157, as amended). The bill also included a continuing resolution (C.R.) to keep the remaining
federal agencies and programs running at 2018 levels after the start of the new fiscal year on October 1, 2018
through December 7,2018. The final roll call vote was 361?61. The President signed the bill into law on
September 28, 2018.

3 a 

 On September 28, 2018 Speaker Paul Ryan brought the Senate?passed opioid package, the SUPPORT for
Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6), to the House floor. The Senate had approved the measure and also
incorporated a provision authored by Senators Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Richard Durbin Ben Cardin 
and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) which lifts the Medicaid IMD exclusion for all substance use disorders. Previous
versions of the bill had only applied to inpatient opioid and cocaine treatment. On October 3, 2018 the Senate
agreed to the House amendment and sent the final bill to the President, who is expected to sign it.

H.R. 6, as passed, contains a handful of provisions that may be of particular interest to Cook County Health:

0 Section 1001 requires states to suspend, rather than terminate Medicaid for youth in
custody/detention.

0 Sections 1017 and 1018 promote Medicaid housing related services and supports for beneficiaries with
substance use disorders.

0 Section 5032 requires HHS to convene a stakeholder group to produce a report of best practices for
states to consider in health care related transitions for inmates.

0 Section 5052 provides a state option to lift the Medicaid IMD exclusion for non-elderly adults for
substance use treatment (up to 30 days). Does not interfere with section 1115 waivers.

a The US. Department of Homeland Security published its proposed changes to its "public charge? rules for
immigrants in the Federal Register on October 10, 2018. There is concern the new rules could have a chilling
effect on immigrants accessing public services that they or their children would be otherwise eligible for in fear
of losing legal immigration status. There is also risk of significant increases in uncompensated care in public
hospitals, as many immigrants may forego coverage so as not to jeopardize their immigration status. The
comment period closes December 10, 2018. Cook County Health will host a press conference with President
Preckwinkle and our Congressional delegation on Monday, October 29th to express concern about the proposed
rule.

a On October 11, 2018 CMS announced that prices for benchmark plans on the ACA exchange will drop by 1.5
percent on average for next year, signaling that the market may be stabilizing. Healthcaregov will have 23 more
insurers offering plans in 2019 and 29 more are expanding the areas where they will be offering plans. Only 39
percent counties will have just one insurer on the exchange next year, down from more than 50 percent of
counties last year. HHS officials took credit for the improvements despite repeatedly describing the ACA as a
failure.

0 The House is in recess until after the November 6th midterm elections; the Senate is in recess until November 13,
2018.

Protection of Medicaid remains a key priority for at both the State and Federal level.

4 Page

Community Outreach

FY19 Budget Public Hearings

Cook County Health and CountyCare work with our community partners, patients and members to attend President
Preckwinkle and the Board of Commissioner Public Hearings on the FY19 Budget and speak on behalf of our
accomplishments. The dates of the FY19 Public Hearings are the following:

October 22, 2018 at 6:30pm at the Second District Courthouse, 5600 Old Orchard Road, Skokie
October 25, 2018 at 6:30pm at the Fourth District Courthouse, 1500 S. Maybrook Drive, Maywood
October 29, 2018 at 9:00 am at the County Board Room - Rm 569, 118 N. Clark St., Chicago
October 29, 2018 at 6:30pm at the Sixth District Courthouse, 16501 S. Kedzie Parkway, Markham

November 1

November 2

November 3

November3

November3

November 7

November7

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Rincon Family Services Job Fair which will take
place at their health center located at 3710 N. Kedzie Avenue in Chicago. Rincon Family Services is
committed to returning citizens from the justice system, working through partnerships to provide the
necessary tools to reduce recidivism.

CountyCare promotion at 12th Annual Riveredge Resource Fair which will take place at the hospital
located at 8311 W. Roosevelt Road in Forest Park. The event features social service providers with
information ranging from substance abuse, mental health, homelessness, intellectual disability, nursing
homes, older adult services, Veteran support, therapeutic schools, and domestic violence support
services.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the New Grace Emmanuel Community COGIC Health
Resource Fair which is co-hosted by Sinai Health Ministries and will take place at the church located at
2743 E. 83rd Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Stone Temple Church Health Fair which will take at
the church Ioocated at 3266 W. Douglas in Chicago. The Provident Hospital HIV testing team will do
testing at the event.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 2018 Diabetes Cook Off Contest and Resource
Fair which will take place at the Washburne Culinary Institute Building located at 740 West 63rd Street
in Chicago. The Diabetes Cook Off celebrates the South Side community and new ways of preparing
healthy and delicious food to share with friends and families. Hosted annually by the South Side
Diabetes Project during National Diabetes Month, the cook off is live competition judge by panel of
food, health, and wellness experts. This free and family-friendly event is preceded by a community
resource fair with free flu shots and health information.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Bridgeview Mayor Steve Landek 8: the Village
Board?s 9th Annual Senior Fair Expo which will take place at Bridgeview Community Center located at
7902 South Oketo in Bridgeview.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Malcolm College Service Days which is hosted by
the Wellness Center of Malcolm College at the school located at 1900 W. Jackson Boulevard in
Chicago. This event for the students and community will provides services such as health insurance
enrollment, counseling, mental health support services and nutrition education, to name a few.

5lPage

November 8

November 13

November 9

November 10

November 10

November 14

November 14

November 17

November 17

November 19

Cook County Health promotion at the Harvey Park District Veteran's Job Fair which will take place at
Gloria Taylor Banquet Hall located at 15335 S. Broadway in Harvey. The event will assist Veterans
seeking employment and by making resource organizations available to help improve their quality of
life.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the 11th Annual Just for the Health of it! Community
Health 8: Wellness Expo hosted by Hanover Township, The Victory Centre of Bartlett and Cook County
Commissioner Timothy 0. Schneider at the Hanover Township Senior Center located at 240 5. IL 59 in
Bartlett. Hanover Township and the Victory Centre of Bartlett are committed to promoting services that
are vital to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Staff of the Vista Health Center will join this event to do blood
pressure screenings and promote the services of their health center.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Commissioner Peter N. Silvestri and Access to Care
Health Fair which will take place at the Golf Maine Park District Feldman Park located at 8800 W. Kathy
Lane in Niles. The health fair will feature various health screenings, as well as free resources for the
entire family.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Metropolitan Chicago Breast Cancer Task Force?s
Beyond October program which takes place at the Illinois Institute of Technology located at 3214 S.
Federal Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Sisters Working it Out Cancer Awareness and
Health Advocacy Organization?s 4TH Annual Day of Beauty for All Cancer Survivors which will take
place at Liberty Full Gospel Church located at 2233 79th Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Malcolm College Wellness Center and the
National Kidney Foundation of Illinois Screening and Resource Fair which takes place at the College
located at 1900 W. Jackson Boulevard in Chicago. The Wellness Center is partnering with the National
Kidney Foundation of Illinois to provide a wide variety of screenings and promote knowledge and access
to public health programs, non-profit agencies and other community clinics.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the lungman School Health and Resource Fair, which
is co-hosted with Sinai Health Ministries at the school located at 1746 S. Miller Street in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at Blue Cross Blue Shield?s Community Health Fair
which will take place at Christ Universal Temple located at 11901 S. Ashland in Chicago. During the event
attendees can take advantage of insurance enrollment resources, SNAP assistance, and redetermination
counseling during the event.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Greater Bethlehem Healing Temple Thanksgiving
Health and Resource Fair, which is co-hosted with Sinai Health Ministries at the Temple located at 12 S.
Oakley Boulevard in Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the State Sen. Omar Aquino and San Lucas Church
Free Family Resource Health Fair and Food Drive which will take place at the Humboldt Park Field
House located at 1400 N. Humboldt Drive in Chicago. The event will feature free health screenings for
adults and children, registration for health insurance, health and social services resource, healthy eating
education and more. Also, free flu shots will be provided throughout the day.

6 Page

November 20 Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Oak Street Health and Meridian Health Little

November 20

November 28

Village Resource Fair which will take place at Oak Street Health?s clinic located at 3010 W. 26th Street in
Chicago.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Molina Thanksgiving Food Giveaway and Health
Fair which takes place at the Maywood Village of Recreation Space located at 200 S. 5th Street in
Maywood. Molina Healthcare is partnering with State Representative Emmanuel Welch and Vision of
Restoration for this annual thanksgiving food giveaway event.

Cook County Health and CountyCare promotion at the Ventanilla de Salud (?Health Window Program?)
sponsored by the Consulate General of Mexico at the Consulate located at 204 S. Ashland Avenue in
Chicago. Ventanilla de Salud is a program that bridges the gap between institutions and non-profit
agencies and individuals regardless oftheir immigration status, providing access to public services such
as preventive health, health education and guidance on the health system in the United States.

The Fresh Food Truck visits for the month of November include the following ACHN Health Centers.
0 November 1 Prieto Health Center 2424 S. Pulaski Road, Chicago, IL 60623
0 November 11 - Provident Hospital/Sengstacke Health Center 500 W. 515t Street, Chicago, IL 60615
a November 16 CORE Center - 2020 W. Harrison Street, Chicago, IL 60612
0 November 20 Woodlawn Health Center 6337 S. Woodlawn Avenue, Chicago, IL 60634
0 November 27 Logan Square Health Center - 2840 W. Fullerton Avenue, Chicago, IL 60647

 

Upcoming Events

Sunday, October 28 Official Ribbon Cutting for Professional
Building, 1950 W. Polk Street (Plaza parking will be available)

Monday, October 29 10AM: Press Conference on Public Charge, 1900
W. Polk Street, Board Room. See Legislative update for additional info.

Thursday, November 1 10AM: Press Conference Celebrating CORE
Center 20th Anniversary, 2020 W. Harrison

Thursday, November 1 4:30 7PM: Reception celebrating CORE Center
20th Anniversary, 2020 W. Harrison

Saturday, November 3 from 9AM 11AM: Community tours of
Professional Building, 1950 W. Polk Street, every half hour.

Friday, November 9 Cook County Health Foundation Associate
Board Fundraiser, mHub, 965 W. Chicago Avenue. See attached invitation
for additional information.

 

 

 

7 Page

