REPORT OF THE
HUMAN RESOURCES COMTTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

January 9, 2009
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors David Carvaiho; Quin R. Golden; and
Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM (4)

Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts (Ex-Officio)
Absent: Director Jorge Ramirez (1)

Also Present: Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Luis Munoz, MD, and Heather B. O'Donnell, JD,
LLM

David Barker, MD Chief Medical Of?cer, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center of
Cook County; Marcel Bright Acting Director of Public Affairs, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; Chet Kelly -- Associate Director, Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center of Cook County; Jeff McCutchan Supervisor, Transactions and
Health Law Division, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; John M. Raba, MD Interim
Chief Medical Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Elizabeth Reidy
Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Deborah
Santana - Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, Cook County Board of
Commissioners; David R. Small Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; Sidney Thomas Chief Operating Of?cer, Provident
Hospital of Cook County; Greg Vaci - Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Robert
Weinstein, MD Chief Operating Officer, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center of Cook
County

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
met pursuant to notice on Friday, January 9, 2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W.
Harrison Street, in the ?fth floor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Human Resources Committee .has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Roll Call

Deborah Santana, of the Office of the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll
of members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

 

Update and discussion of pending information reguests

Chairman Zopp reviewed the information requests that were pending.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

January 9, 2009

PAGE 2

David Small, Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, provided
information on applicant tracking. He stated that this information would be provided on a basis, and
would include information on the hires from the previous month.

 

Update on responses to search ?rm RFP.

Mr. Small provided an update on the search firm Request for Proposals (RFP) progress. He stated that the RFP
was loaded onto the County govemment?s website today; the due date for proposals is February 25, 2009. -

 

Update on CORE response to former employee allegations.

Discussion of Personnel Matters.
Update on labor negotiations.

Recruitment of Permanent Chief Executive Officer
for the Cook County Health and Howls Svstem

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120f2(c)(2), et seq., which
permits closed meetings for consideration of ?collective negotiating matters between the public body and
its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,? and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120f2(c)(l), which
permits closed meetings for consideration of ?the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of speci?c employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body,
including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,? and pursuant to an exception to the Open
Meetings Act, 5 ECS which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?the recruitment,
credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a
hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body." THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Carvalho in the Chair.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Carvalho stated that although this item was appropriate for discussion in closed session, in open session
the Committee would like to put in the record that the allegations regarding a hostile environment at the Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center for persons who are gay was thoroughly explored by staff and a report was made to the
Board. A report suitable for release is being prepared, and the Board is comfortable that the allegations have
been found to be unfounded. The Board, as well as the CORE Center, reaffirms the goal of maintaining and
continuing to maintain an environment at all of the facilities that is welcoming and supportive of all patients,
without regard to any category throughout the System. (See Attachment #1 .)

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

January 9, 2009

PAGE 3

Director Carralho then explained that the Committee discussed another item that was appropriate for discussion
in closed session, and the Committee was now prepared to take action in open session on this item. He stated
that the System?s arrangement with MedAssets currently includes the ?provision of services of Interim Chief
Financial Of?cer, Pitt Calkin. The current arrangement ends January 22 . The Committee would like to see the
extension of that arrangement through February 28m.

Director Carvalho called for a motion to amend the contract with MedAssets to extend the provision of
the services of Pitt Caikin as System Interim Chief Financial Of?cer through February 28, 2009.
However, the Committee had lost its quorum at that time; Director Carvalho stated for the record that he
and Director Golden, and the Human Resources Committee members present in closed session during the
discussion of this item indicated their support for this extension.

 

Public Comments
Director Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon any registered public speakers.

Ms. Santana responded that there were none.

 

Adjournment
As the agenda was exhausted, Director Carvalhe declared the meeting ADJOURNED.

  

Respectfully submitted,

Human Reso es Committee of the
Board of Di ore of the

Cook Con

i and Hospitals System

Ms. Andrea L. z?iyjrhairman

Attest:

      
 

 

atthew 

   

. DeLeorT,? Secretary 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System 
Report of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
January 9, 2008

ATTACHMENT #1

Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center

Cook County Health 8; Hospitals System

Todd H. Stroger- President Health System Board Members

Cook County Board of Commissioners Dr. David A. Ansell
Commissioner Jerry Butler

David N. Corvalho
IQuin R. Golden
Benn Greenspan
Sr. Sheila Lyn:

Dr. Luis R. Munoz

Heather E. O?Donell

David R. Small FACHE - Interim CEO Andrea L. Zopp
Cook [20me Health ti: Hospitals System

Warren 1. Baits . Chairman
Cook Coumy Health Er. Hospitals System

Jorge Ramirez - Vice-Chairman
Coot: County Health ti: Hospitals System

 

2020 West Harrison Street
Chicago. Illinois 606?


TDD [3 I 2) STE-4560
David R. Small FACHE Robert 
01' to orr
Interim CEO 19 pointing leer
Dave Barker. MD
Cook County Health 8: Hospltals System Chiel?MedicalOf?ecr

Andrea Zopp, JD
Chair Human Resources Committee

January 9, 2009

Dear Mr. Small and Ms. Zopp.

As discussed previously our patients face substantial discrimination because of their
HIV status, and we take very seriously any perception that we are increasing rather than
alleviating barriers to patients obtaining the care that they need.

We would like to take this opportunity to report back to you our ?ndings with regard to
the recent allegation that the CORE Center is a homophobic environment. These are
grouped as follows: 1. objective data from internal patient satisfaction and patient
complaints 2. subjective impressions from members of the CORE Center Community
Advisoy Board (CAB) and from focus groups held by outside funders as part of frequent
extra-mural reviews of our services 3. planned future steps.

1. Objective data

Patient Satisfaction Survey

The CORE Center carries out an annual patient satisfaction survey, usually in the

early fall. This survey is based on models with proven internal validity created by the New
York State Department of Health AIDS Institute and the DHHS HIV and AIDS Bureau. The
survey is administered as a voluntary convenience sample among patients from all of the
different clinic sessions in the waiting areas of the HIV primary care clinics. Completed
surveys are obtained from 350 450 patients each year. The 2008 survey was conducted
in October over 2 weeks and responses from 431 patients were obtained. It included 5?
items.

 

We Bring Health GARE to Your Community

Question 42 speci?cally asked whether the patient had ever felt poorly
treated and if so, why? Over the past four years, af?rmative responses to this
question have ranged from a high which represents
approximately to 13% of respondents. The 2003 number was 41 which is just
under 10% for all causes. Of those responding that they felt poorly treated 2 to
10 respondents over the past four years to 2.4% of all respondents and
3.6% of those identifying as GLBT) believed that they were poorly treated
because of their sexual orientation.

In the 2008 patient satisfaction survey 27% of patients self identify as gay,
lesbian, or bisexual (Question We believe that this under-states the
proportion of GLBT patients.

Question 42 is reproduced below.

 

 

42. At any point, did you feel treated poorly at your clinic?
yes no (If Skip to Question 45)

43. if "Yes," please help us understand why by checking any of the reasons you feel
may have caused you to be treated poorly.

race _my sexual orientation

_my age __my genderlsex

_my immigration status "_my dif?culty speaking English
_my drug use am not using drugs) _other (please specify)

 

 

Patient Complaints:

The CORE Center has suggestion I complaint boxes located throughout
the building where patients and staff may place anonymous or signed
complaints. None of the complaints received has ever mentioned homophobia or
other discrimination.

As required by one of our federal funding sources there are signs posted
in English and Spanish asking if patients "have grievances with our services" and
inviting them to contact our Patient Advocate or use a 1-800 number to contact
the granting agency in the city Department of Health. We receive a small
number of complaints back from the Health Department each year through this
mechanism. No complaints related to anti-gay bias have ever been received by
the Health Department.

The CORE Center has an active system of gathering and responding to
patient complaints through our Patient Advocates and Peer Educators. At least
one Patient Advocate is available during all business hours to assist patients and
to take patient complaints. Any patient with a problem or complaint is directed by
staff to the Patient Advocate. All written patient complaints must have a written
response from the Department Manager or Director. In the Windy City Times it
was alleged that the CORE Center receives one complaint per week related to
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. in fact the CORE Patient

Page 2 of 5

 

Advocate receives an average of 49 complaints per year on all subjects but these
have not been about discrimination due to sexual orientation.

Neither the Patient Advocate nor any of the Directors recall any written
complaints alleging discrimination based on sexual orientation in 2006 or 200?.
and there was only a single complaint from a transgender patient in 2008 related
to a disagreement over hormone replacement therapy dosing. This complaint
was answered in November 2008, but may not yet be fully resolved due to
dif?culty contacting the patient.

The allegation that the CORE Center receives many such complaints and
does not address them is false despite CORE's robust active and passive system
to receive such complaints.

Staff on Staff complaints

CORE leadership is not aware of any complaints of this nature by any
staff to either managers or Hektoen or County HR regarding other staff. Four
years ago a manager of a research project made a sexually inappropriate remark
to an employee. The employee brought it to the attention of the departmental
director who agreed the remark constituted sexual harassment. The manager
was suspended and subsequently terminated by Hektoen HR after an
investigation with the agreement of the Director. The manager was a
heterosexual male and the employee was female. CORE staff have received
training about the County Sexual Harassment Policy.

There was a single similar episode in the HIV clinics. again between staff,
that occurred in 1995 prior to the opening of the CORE Center and which also
resulted in termination of the offender.

2. Subjective Data
Community Advisory Board

The Executive Director has had private discussions with a number of
individuals from the CORE Center Community Advisory Board (CAB) to
provide feedback on any patient concerns about discomfort experienced while in
the Center. The CAB includes both gay and straight members as well as some
community members who are not patients of the Center. The members spoken
to did not have any experience or information about concerns or complaints
related to discrimination due to race, sexual orientation, or gender. eadership
will meet with the entire CAB early in January to engage them in assisting us to
ensure that the consumer experience is consistently positive.

Peer Educators and staff

The CORE Center employs a small staff of patients as trained educators
and patient assistants. A number of these Peer Educators are openly
homosexual and none have experienced, witnessed, or had related to them
instances of discrimination based on sexual orientation. Similarly other
employees including gay and straight staff were asked about whether they had

Page 3 of 5

witnessed or had related to them instances of homophobia or hostility and none
were recalled.

Patient focus groups conducted by external reviewers

Biennially the CORE Center receives detailed in-person reviews for a
several of our federally funded HIV service programs. The most thorough
reviews are conducted by the Chicago Department of Public Health (CDPH) for
Part A of the Ryan White Care and Modernization Act. Three focus groups have
been held in the past three years on December 14, 2006, January 22, 2008, and
January 23. 2008. One of the groups was a convenience sample and
participants in the other two were randomly selected from among patients
receiving dental or primary care services. These focus groups are held in
English and Spanish and facilitated by CDPH personnel or professional
consultants with no CORE staff present. CORE receives detailed reports from
CDPH of the anonymous opinions provided by patients in these groups. The
questions posed to these groups are open ended and include exploratory
interrogatives on the overall experiences with our services. These reports have
included many concerns about CORE services; however, the issue of
discrimination or a hostile environment on the basis of sexual orientation has
never been raised.

3. Future steps:
As outlined above CORE Leadership will meet with the CORE CAB to
discuss the experiences and understanding of the members in January 2009.

Safety net HIV care is provided by networks that share patients. especially
social work I community case management and legal assistance through the
AIDS Legal Counsel. Thousands of our patients have received assistance from
community social work agencies, substance abuse centers. and housing
providers. The CORE Center has formal linkage agreements with these
providers. We intend to discuss with our community partners the experiences of
care at our Center that our patients have shared with their staff.

The CORE Center had begun a program of training in late 2007 and early
2008 intended to diminish feelings of stigma among patients with HIV. This
program sponsored by the National Minority AIDS Coalition requires several days
participation which is not practical for all staff. A dozen CORE staff have been
trained in train-the-trainer sessions. We have been working on creating a
condensed version for all CORE staff. This program has begun long before the
current allegation came to light. We intend to continue to roll-out this program.
We will continue to require annual in-service trainings in customer service which
include being sensitive to others regardless of their race, religion, national origin.
gender identity, or sexual orientation. We will remind staff that the leadership is
committed to keeping the Center free from sexual harassment and any other
form of discrimination.

Page 4 of 5

We will continue to perform annual patient satisfaction surveys and will
reassess the survey instrument to determine whether additional questions should
be included in this area.

Based on prior actions by management involving sexual harassment no
one should be under the illusion that leadership will tolerate inappropriate
conduct by staff members. We will reinforce with staff the importance of making
the Center a welcome primary care home for all patients and making every effort
to reduce perceived stigmas as a barrier to care as part of our annual cycle of
trainings.

SUMMARY:

We do not believe that the allegation is true and we do not believe that
there is a. climate of discrimination. hostility. or phobia on the basis of sexual
orientation. Substantial numbers of both patients and staff are GLBT. It is
impossible to state that there are no incidents or perceptions of discrimination in
a health center that has more than 300 staff and as many as 70,000 patient visits
per year. in fact 82 to 93% percent of patients over the past four years have
stated that they would recommend the CORE Center to someone who needed
care.

We take very seriously even the perception of discrimination or a hostile
environment not only because we feel such bias is ethically wrong but because it
creates additional barriers that hinder patients from entering into. and remaining
in, treatment for a deadly disease. The CORE leadership is committed to
investigating and mitigating any such complaints that arise in the future.
Unfortunately we were not afforded such an opportunity in this instance.

Page 5 of 

