QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: October 15, 2015
The Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System will hold a Special Meeting on Tuesday, October 20, 2015 at the hour of 12:30 P.M. at 1900 W. Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

12:30

II.

Public Speakers

12:30-12:35

III.

Action Items
A. Any items listed under Sections III and IV

IV.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes

12:35-1:35

B. Stroger Hospital Medical Staff Credentialing Matters
Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Open Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal
of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its
validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or
other health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public
body.”

V.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Gugenheim
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Lerner and Marsh
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. and Patricia Merryweather (Non-Director Members)

 