Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

REPORT OF THE
HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 2008
ATTENDANCE

Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors David Carvalho, Quin'R. Golden, Sister
Sheila Lyne, RSM and Jorge Ramirez (5)

Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts (Ex-Of?cio)
None (0)
Directors Hon. Jerry Butler, Luis Munoz, MD, MPH and Heather O?Donnell

David Barker, MD Chief Medical Officer, Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center;
Johnny Brown Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Laura
Lechowicz-Felicione Special Counsel to President Todd H. Stroger; Judith Frigo,
MD Chief Medical O?icer, Oak Forest Hospital; Maurice Lemon, MD, MPH 
Medical Director, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Cecil Merchand Associate
Administrator, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Elizabeth Reidy Deputy Chief,
Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Jonathan Rothstein .. Deputy
Bureau Chief, Bureau of Human Resources of Cook County; Deborah Santana 
Office of the Secretary to the Board; David R. Small Interim Chief Executive
Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Sidney Thomas Chief
Operating Of?cer, Provident Hospital of Cook County

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System met pursuant to notice on Friday, October It}, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 AM. at Stroger Hospital,
1901 W. Harrison Street, in the ?fth ?oor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Human Resources Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report,
the recommendations follow.

Mad

Deborah Santana, of the Office of the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members and it was
determined that a quorum was present.

 

OLD BUSINESS

Update and discussion of pending information reouests.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 2008

PAGE 2

Chairman Zopp indicated that the members have received a lot of material in the past few days with
regard to pending information requests. She believed that the Committee was largely up?to-date, with the
exception of a few items. The materials for remaining information requests will be forwarded to the
Committee members as they come in. When the members receive the information, if there are any
additional questions on the materials, Chairman Zopp requested that the member inform herself or David
R. Small, Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Additionally, Mr. Small informed the Committee that next Friday, the Board will receive the information
necessary to be able to remotely log-in to the dedicated shared drive in order to facilitate their access to
past and current meeting materials and other documents. Each director will be provided with the access
information; he added that if a Director does not have the capability to utilize this tool, his of?ce would
be happy to provide the materials in a hard copy form.

 

Review. discuss and approve iob description for head of Human Resources

for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Chairman Zopp noted that in the position description, there was no speci?c reference to monitoring,

- coordinating or leading the System?s compliance with Shakman. She stated that it should be Speci?cally

included in the position description.

Chairman Zopp stated that she had received some comments from Laura Lechowicz?Felicione, Special
Counsel to President Todd H. Stroger, with regard to the position description. She mentioned one
suggestion made by Ms. Leehowicz?Felicione, with which she agreed. This was pertaining to the
requirement of speci?c secondary degree quali?cations, which Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione believed could
limit the pool of candidates for the position. Chairman Zopp stated that the language should be rephrased
to state that it would be preferred; additionally, she stated that there are many attorneys who work in
human resources, so the language should say some kind of secondary degree without being speci?c.
Chairman Zopp indicated that Ms. Lechowicz-Felicione would address the Committee after the members
concluded their questions or comments.

Director Golden inquired whether the head of human resources should report to the Chief Executive
Officer, instead of reporting to the Chief Operating Of?cer.

Board Chairman Batts noted that under Dr. Robert Simon?s leadership, many of the executive team
reported to the Chief Operating Of?cer. However, he did state that there was not a position of Chief
Operating Of?cer for the System prior to Mr. Small?s arrival to ?ll that position.

Mr. Small agreed, stating that this was how the System operated under Dr. Simon's leadership. He
explained that this is how the System?s reporting structure is currently set up. He added that when a
permanent Chief Executive Of?cer is in place, he or she may want to restructure that operating structure.
It has been his experience that comparable organizations have the reporting structure set up similarly.

Director Lyne indicated that she favored the position reporting to the Chief Executive Of?cer.
Chairman Zopp staEd that the operational pieces may need to be structured under a Chief Operating

Officer; ?om a recruiting perspective, it is easier to later restructure the reporting up a level, rather than
down a level after an individual is hired for the position.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 10, 2008

PAGE 3

Chairman Zopp invited Ms. Lechowicz?Felieione to share her comments on the position description.

Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione addressed the Committee. From a consulting and developing policies
standpoint, she suggested that they include in the description a general statement regarding consulting and
advising the Chief Operating Officer, Chief Executive Of?cer and System Board on the personnel
policies of the System. With regard to the suggestion she made relating to the requirement of Speci?c
secondary degree quali?cations which she believed could limit the pool of candidates for the position,
Ms. Lechowicz-Felicione recounted the difficulties experienced as a result of this at the County level
when recruiting for the new Bureau Chief of Human Resources.

The changes discussed were clari?ed, with Chairman Zopp indicating that the quali?cations will state that
a college degree is required, and a higher degree would be desireable. This will allow for more ?exibility
with the pool of candidates.

Chairman Zopp asked Mr. Small to revise the description consistent with the Committee?s discussion.
She did not feel that the ?nal version after these revisions needed to be brought back before the
Committee.

Mr. Small provided the members with an update on efforts to recruit for the position. The issue of
whether or not to use a recruitment firm for this position has not yet been decided, but he stated that he

has informally ?cast the net" out looking for potential candidates. There are still some questions that
remain to be answered, speci?cally with regard to salary range.

Chairman Bans inquired whether the position was included in the ?gures for the 2009 Budget.
Mr. Small responded af?rmatively.

Chairman Zopp suggested that Mr. Small make a recommendation to the Committee with regard to salary
range.

 

Review, discuss and approve the ?nal updated proposed hiring policy.

Chairman Zepp asked Ms. Lechowicz-Felicione whether the Cook County Compliance Administrator,
Judge .lulia Nowicki, had any comments with regard to the ?nal updated proposed hiring policy.

Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione?stated that Judge Nowicki had sent her an electronic mail message with
comments on the ?nal updated proposed hiring policy. Ms. Lechowicz-Felicione stated that this
proposed policy isjust a tweaking of the plan that Judge Nowicki had already reviewed and approved in
the Spring.

Director Carvalho inquired whether the policy should include explicit language with regard to the Board's
intent to supplant Cook County?s personnel policy.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AN HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 2003

PAGE 4

Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of? the O?ice of the State?s Attorney, informed
the Committee that with regard to personnel rules, the enabling Ordinance calls for the System Board to
follow the County?s personnel rules until the System Board disengages by adopting its own personnel
rules or procedures. To be clear, however, she stated that at this point in time, the System is not in the
position to completely take it over.

Chairman Zopp asked Mr. Small to work with Ms. Reidy to include such language in the policy.
Chairman Zopp asked Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione to comment on the proposed policy.

Ms. Lechowicz-Felicione stated that this is essentially laying out the process; this process is. still in
compliance with the Hiring Plan that was presented to the court in the early 1990?s in compliance with the
Shakman Decree. She stated that the System and the County are still working in unison as far as a
process.

In response to a comment ?'om Director Lyne with regard to physician hiring and the expectations of
board certifications, it was stated that there is a separate policy for credentialing.

Some errata and typographical errors within the policy were referenced. Chairman Zopp asked Mr. Small
to also incorporate the changes indicated during this meeting. She stated that the final updated preposed
hiring policy, as amended, will be on the Board?s agenda for their approval at the next meeting.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to approve the ?nal updated proposed
hiring policy, as amended. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

The final updated proposed hiring policy, as amended is included in the backup materials as Attachment


 

NEW BUSINESS

Review the number of grievances ?led and review the grievance process.

Cecil Marchand, Associate Administrator at Stroger Hospital of Cook County, provided a summary of the
grievance process. -

Mr. Marchand and Jonathan Rothstein, Deputy Bureau Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources of Cook
County, responded to questions from Committee members with regard to grievances and collective
bargaining agreements.

Discussion turned to the issue of variations of grievance procedures between collective bargaining
agreements. Chairman Zopp asked how these variations are managed.

Mr. Small suggested that there be system-wide management updates and training for Speci?c issues such
as this.

 

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 10, 2008

PAGE 5

Review and discuss potential revisions to the Cook County Health and Hosoitals Svstem

personnel policies pertaining to discipline and dual employment.

The Committee discussed the existing personnel policies pertaining to discipline. Mr. Marchand and Mr.
Rothstein presented a brief overview of the policies and procedures.

The Committee reviewed and discussed the following documents:

Administrative Core Manual (2003) - Dual Employment Policy,

Disciplinary Hearings Policy and

- Rules and Regulations Governing Employee Conduct Policy
County of Cook Personnel Rules (2004)

Chairman Zopp noted that there were three sets of miles or policies before them, and questioned which set
of rules apply to the System.

Ms. Reidy ?rst explained the background of two of the documents. She stated that the Administrative
Core Manual was created in 2003; in 2004, Mark Kilgallon, who was then the Chief of the Cook County
Bureau of Human Resources, issued the County of Cook Personnel Rules. She stated that she viewed a
memorandum sent by Ruth Rothstein, who was then the Chief of the Bureau of Health Services, to the
management and leaders throughout the Bureau telling them that these (Mark Kilgallon?s 2004 Rules)
were the rules. Ms. Reidy stated that the fact that the 2003 Administrative Core Manual is still ?oating
around may be problematic, but it is her understanding that the 2004 County of Cook Personnel Rules are
the rules that were implemented.

Ms. Reidy provided further information on the third document, which is a separate policy with regard to
physicians and dentists created after the 2004 County of Cook Personnel Rules were issued.

Discussion turned to the topic of dual employment policies. Director Carvalho asked for clari?cation on
which policy was applicable, and questioned whether changes were needed. 

Chairman Zopp stated that the Board had received blue binders that contained these policies. She
distributed additional copies to the members of the physicians and dentists rules that apply to conduct and
discipline of personnel (Rule 8) and to dual employment (Rule 13). She stated that Rules 8. 9 and 13
from both the County of Cook Personnel Rules and the separate policy for physicians and dentists would
be addressed at the next meeting of the Human Resources Committee, and asked the Committee members
to bring their blue binders containing these documents with them for that meeting'.

Chairman Zopp opened the ?oor to a discussion of the topic of dual employment in general. Comments
were made, and it was stated that the rule is fair and reasonable, but enforcement and investigation is a
problem. There were questions and information provided on swiping-in policies, and questions with
regard to the reporting structure for departments, divisions and institutions.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 10, 20138

PAGE 6

The discussion tumed to the issue of documentation that is required to be ?led every two years with
regard to dual employment. Chairman Zopp requested that the receive a copy of this formz,
and suggested a language change to include that management has to have a clear conversation regarding
eXpectations, and have this attached to the form that is required to be ?led.

Chairman Zopp inquired whether there were any positions where dual employment should-be banned.

David Barker, MD, Chief Medical Officer of the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center, replied that the Dr.
Jack Raba, Interim Chief Medical Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, is already
considering the question. .

Director Lyne suggested that the Committee ask Dr. Raba to present an opinion on this questiona, and
Chairman Zopp concurred with the suggestion.

 

NEW BUSINESS

Update on preparation for Collective Bargaining Negotiations.

Discussion of personnel issue.

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Golden, moved to recess the regular session and convene
into closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et seq.,
which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?Collective negotiating matters between the
public body and its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules
for one or more classes of employees,? and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5
ILCS et seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of Speci?c employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged
against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its
validity." THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene
into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Public Comments

Chairman Zopp asked the Secretary to call upon any registered public speakers.

The Secretary responded that there were none.

 

REPORT OF THE RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

October 10, 2008

PAGE 7.

Adjournment

Director seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANMOUSLY AND THE MEETDIG ADJOURNED.

submitted,
- a ourees Committee of the

  

 

Attest:

WWI/libido 

Matthew B. Deleon: SeerEfary

 

The followin was nested or was indicated as a follow-u item at this meetin 

 

Follow up: Rules 8. 9 and 13 from both the County of Cook Personnel Rules and the separate policy for
physicians and dentists will be addressed at the next meeting of the Human Resources Committee, and the
Committee members should bring their blue binders containing these documents with them for that
meeting. On page 5.

2 Request for a copy of the form that is required to be ?led every two years with regard to dual
employment. On page 6. (David Small)

3 Request by Director Lyne for Dr. Raba to present an opinion on the question of whether there were any
positions where dual employment should be banned. On page 6. (Dr. Jack Reba)

ATTACHMENT #1

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND POLICY NUMBER:

 

 

PHYSICIANS HR.1.20
DATE OF ORIGIN: manor CORE POLICY PAGE, hr 12
REVIEWED a REVISED: usizsloe AREA SPECIFIC POLICY 

 

 

 

POLICY: The policy and procedures associated with hiring practices shall meet the legal and regulatory requirements of the
Federal, State, and County Agencies and Collective Bargaining AgentsIUnits.

PURPOSE:

The Cook County Health and Hospitals System in cooperation with the Cook County Department of

Human ResourcesI has organized the hiring process so that it is uniform and consistent throughout the Cook County Health and
HOSpitals System. The goal is to simplify and standardize the hiring process throughout the Cook County Health and Hospitals

 

 

 

 

 

System.
AREAS AFFECTED: All Cook County Health and Hospitals System facilities and staff
TABLE OF CONTENTS:
Page Number PAGE DOCUMENTS NEED REVISION ONCE FINAL PROCESS APPRO VED
1 Overview
1 De?nitions
2 Summary of Key Points
3-5 Process for hiring Non-Physicians
6-8 Process for hiring Physicians and Mid-Level Providers
9 Sample Of Correct Hiring forms:
10 a. Request to Hire (RTH)
I 1-12 b. Standard Job Description
13?14 c. Job Posting ?Notice of Job Opportunity
15 d. Eligibility List
16-18 e. Oral Interview Evaluation form
19-22 Decision to Hire fonn (DTH)
23?24 g. BOH Blue Requisition form
25 h. Personnel Action form
26 i. Cook County Personnel Action Form
27-28 j. Cook County Shakman Certification form for County Personnel
29 k. Cook COunty Shakman Certi?cation for Applicantsr?Candidates
30-31 1. Form 1-9
32 m. Credentialing Application or Preapplication Request form
33-34 n. Application for Administrative Appointment andlor Interim Clinical Privileges
35 o. New Applicant Background Check Request
36-3? Appendix A. Alphabetical Title Report: Lists all positions that can be posted andfor advertised' In other professional
journals or newspapers as desired. Any positions elected to be posted In the Cook County Human Resources
Department shall remain posted for a minimum of 14 days. All other steps remain the same including executing all
Shakman Certi?cation forms.
33 Appendix B: Hiring Process Tracking Form: This form is to be completed by the person responsible for each step
in the process to track progress and identify personnel.
DEFINITI ON 3' l. The Cook County Department of Human Resources (HR) is the Cook County department responsible for
providing management of hiring and employment practices for all County employees.

2. Cook County Health and Hospitals System ?Administrative Staff Services is the
centralized department coordinating the process' of the human resource functions to ensure that the
health care system determines the quali?cations and competencies for staff positions based on its
mission, population, care, treatrnent, and services.

3. Shakman Certi?cation is the documentation required to certify that political reasons or factors were not
considered as part of the hiring or employment process for Shakman covered positions.

4. Cook County Bureau of Human Resources Web address: 

APPROVED

. Interim Chief, CCI-IHS
SIGNATURE TITLE DATE

Interim Chief, Cook County Department of HR
SIGNATURE TITLE DATE

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND POLICY NUMBER:
PHYSICIANS HR.1.20

 

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 12l01l07 1 CORE POLICY PAGE, 2 a, 12
REVIEWED REVISED: 09i26l08 AREA SPECIFIC POLICY 

 

 

 

Hiring of Non-Physicians KEY POINTS

KEY POINT I

The Department Director must indicate in the Job Description the job qualifications versus Jlob duties. .iob quali?cations
are certifications, training, etc. required in order for tlte individual to be selected. These cannot be listed in the posting under
job duties. .

For .S'hi?I changes within a that do not require a change in number, the new shi?' may be posted internally
within the department for 5 days and the department can select an internal applicant to move to the new shi?. A Personnel
A ction Form should be completed by the department for this employee ?s shift change.

Departments may complete the RTH with the ?shift? completed as ?Variable?. This will enable quali?ed applicants to go
into a pool of potential candidates to interview for similar positions within a department.

KEY POINT 2

The only signatures required on the RTH are the Department Director and C00.
KEY POINT 3

it? the person being recalled is being placed in the same position with the same PID ii, and the qualifications have not
changed, the person does not have to be interviewed.
KEY POINT 4

The Department Director/"Chairman must notify DSS of the interview dates so that they can afford the Sh altman
Compliance Administrator th opportunity to be present and observe the interview process.



if an internal candidate is accepted, the candidate can he released within 2 weelrs. it takes 2 weeks to put them into payroll.
KEY POINT 6

Those employees, who are telling a promotion, transfer, or demotion, will not be required to attend orientation, unless
moving to a new facility. -
KEY POINT 7

The Cool: County Health and Hospitals System is covered by the Shah-man Consent Decree and the Cool: County Human

Resources Ordinance which both strictly prohibit political based hiring, ?ring, prontotions, and oth er job actions for all
positions, other than exempt positions. in addition, it is the policy of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System to hire,
promote and retain the best qualified candidates for all positions, whether or not the position is exempt. For non-exempt
positions, the Cooh County Sh ahman Certification form for County Personnel must he executed by every employee having a
part in the ltlring or employment process. Applicants and Can didatesfor employment will have a separate Shahman
Certification form which will be executed by the Applicant or Candidate as part of the application process and shall he turned
in with the Application for empioymen t.

 

Hiring of Physicians and Mid-level providers KEY POINTS
KEY POINT I
in cumbent is vacating, then submit:
- Personnel Action form to 
a Final time card w/ vacation payout to Payroll
Submit at least one full pa period before starting date
KEY POINT 2 

The Cool: County Health and Hospitals System is covered by the Shahman Consent Decree and the ooh County Human
Resources Ordinance which both strictiv prohibit political based hiring, ?ring, promotions, and otherjob actions for all
positions, other titan exempt positions. in addition, it is the policy of the Cooh County Health and Hospitals System to hire,
promote and retain the best qualified candidates for all positions, whether or not the position is exempt. For non?exempt
positions, the Cool: County Shaltman Certi?cation form for County Personnel must be executed by every employee/physician
having a part in the hiring or employment process. Physician Applicants and Candidates for employment will execute the Cool:
County Shah'mttn Execution for Applicantleandidates during the interview process; this executed form should tit on be
collected during the interview process and forwarded with the Hiring Packet.

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

POLICY TITLE:
PHYSICIANS

HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1.2D

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 12i01i07
REVIEWED IE REVISED: 09i26i03

 

1 CORE POLICY
1 AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

PAGE: 3 of 12

 

 

PROCESS FOR HIRING NON-PHYSICIANS

1. Department DirectoriChairmau

a) The Department DirectoriChairman completes:

A Job Description

0 Request to Hire (RTH) with the GradeiStep

indicated in appropriate section.

A standard job posting (Notice of Job Opportunity) be
used Any additionai quaii?cations or job duties must be
indicated on the Request to Hire
b) Initiates Hiring Process Tracking Form
c) For executiveihard to recmit positions, Department Chair
contacts System CEOidesignee to request approval of an
outside resource to assist in recruitment. Outside resource
should meet the following criteria:

0 Approved county vendor

0 Demonstrated experience in recruitment of

positions? skill set

Proven record of recruitment of diverse candidates.
d) Department will follow Cook County?s Equal
Employment Opportunity Plan and make a best effort to
promote diversity within the system.

Execute the Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form
for County Personnel and fomard with the RTH

KEY POINT I

The Department Director must indicate in the Job
Description the job quuih?ications versus job duties. 
guaiificatious are certifications, training, etc. required in
order for the individaai to be seiected. These cannot be tisted
in the posting under job duties.

For Shitt changes within a department that do not require
a change in PID number, the new shift may be posted
internaiiy within the department for 5 days and the department
can seiect an internai appiicant to move to the new shift. A
Personnei Action Form shouid be compieted by the
department for this emptoyee?s shift change.

Departments may compiete the RTH with the 'shi?'
compieted as ?Variabie?. This enabie quaii?ed appiiconts
to go into a pool of potentiat candidates to interview for
simiiar positions within a department.

2. Facility Chief Operating Of?cer [2 Days}
a) Facility Chief Operating Of?cer (COO) reviews:
0 RTH
0 Job Description
0 Standard Job Posting
0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel

0 Hiring Process Tracking Form

b) Veri?es that the position is and funded (internal
process)

c) Signs and forwards forms to the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System-ADSS Directoridesignee

 

KEY POINT 2

The oniy signatures required an the RTH are the Department
Director and C00. The Department Director and C00 shaii
execute the Cooit County Shaitman Certi?cation form for
County Personnet.

3. Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ADSS
Directoridesignee [3 Days]
The Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ROSS
(CCHI-IS-ADSS) veri?es the information and returns any
inaccurate RTH forms to the Department
DirectoriChairm an. If accurate1 the forms are forwarded to
the Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources (who
determines which are given to the Labor Relation Of?cer).

4. Cook County Bureau of Human Resources l4 Days]

The Labor Relations Of?cer determines whether the position

is on the recallireinstatement list.

a) If the position is on the RecalliReinstatement List, the
recall is processed.
For all technicaliprofessional positions, the Labor
Relations Officer will contact the departn-Ient
directorichairman to inquire if there are any additional
quali?cations in accordance with the collective bargaining
agreement.
The Department will have the right to interview the
recalled individual. The Labor Relations Of?cer contacts
the recalled individual, schedules return to work physical
with EHS, and arranges a starting date. She informs
for processing of ID badges. The
employee is scheduled to start at the next pay period if
they have been cleared by EHS. The Labor Relations
Of?cer will sign the Hiring Process Tracking Form and
Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for County
Personnel.

KEY POINT 3

it" the person being recaited is being pieced in the same
position with the same it, and the quaih'ications have
not changed, the person does not have to be interviewed.

b) If the position is NOT on the RecalliReinstatement List,
the Labor Relation Of?cer informs the Deputy Chief,
Bureau of Human Resources who assigns a BHR number
on the RTH and posts the notice of Job Opportunity. Signs

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

POLICY TITLE:
PHYSICIANS

HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1.20

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 12101")?
REVIEWED 8t REVISED: 09i26i08

 

1 CORE POLICY

1 AREA SPECIFIC POLICY PAGE 401? 12

 

 

Hiring Process Tracking Form and Cook County Shakman The executed Cook County Shakman Certi?cation

Certi?cation form fOr County Personnel.

5. Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources [4 Days]

for ApplicantsiCandidates
0 Decision to Hire form
Hiring Process Tracking Form

0

The Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources will post 0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation font: for

the position within 4 days. The job is posted at Cook

County Personnel

County Bureau of HR, at the facility, and on-line for Id

days. Hiring Process Tracking Form and Cook County .
Shakman Certi?cation form for County Personnel are

signed.

6. Applicants [14 dasti Cook County Bureau ofHR
Applicants can download an application or pick up an

9. Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ADSS
Directoridesignee [2 Days]
Forwards the completed package to the Department
DirectoriChairman who will schedule interviews.
HR Tracking form and Cook County Shakman Certi?cation
form for County Personnel are signed.

application at one of the Bureau facilities. lntemal and

external applications must be hand delivered to Cook
County Bureau of HR where they will receive a receipt
verifying that the application was received, including all

KEY POINT 4

Tire Department Director/Citoirrnon must notify 
ADSS of tire interview dates so that they can o??ord tire
Sitokmon Compiionee Administrator tire opportunity to be

 

supporting documents; transcripts}. The individual will
be given and be able to download the Cook County
Shakman Certi?cation for ApplicantsiCandidates; said
Shakman Certi?cation fonn must be executed by the
applicanticandidate.

. Cook County Bureau of HR

Positions will be posted so that the applicants can enter an
applicant pool to be selected for similarly posted positions
within a department.

8. Personnel Analyst(s) Cook County Bureau of HR [3?7
Days]

a) At the end of the posting period, all applications will be
forwarded to the Personnel Analyst who will create the
eligibility list. The departmental hiring manager will have
the opportunity to participate in the eligibility list creation
if the department requests to participate. After close
review, those quali?ed are entered into the Tracking
system and an Eligibili? List is generated. The list

_ccnsists of the names of those applicants who meet the
minimum job quali?cations. HR Tracking form and Cook
County Shakman Certi?cation form for County Personnel
are signed. .

b) All applicants on the Eligibility List are sent from Cook
County Bureau of HR to along with the
following documents: 

0 Job Description

Job Posting

Completed Job Applications {for each applicant)

Oral Interview Evaluation forms attached to

each application (one for each interviewer for each

applicant)

GOO

present anti observe the interview process.

10. Department DirectoriChairman [7 Days]

a) Interviews will be completed within 7 days
Following forms are completed:
Oral Interview Evaluation form (one form for each
interviewer and applicant)
Cook County Shakrnan Certi?cation form for
County Personnel (front and back side of form)
0 Decision to Hire fonn
Hiring Process Tracking Form
c) Forms are returned to the 

ll. Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ADSS

Directoridesignee [2-10 Days]

a) The contacts selected applicant and
offers position.

b) After applicant accepts, the completes
the Blue Requisition form, signs Hiring Process
Tracking Form and Cook County Certification form fOr
County Personnel and ensures ALL the forms in packet
(below) are completed.

c) Sends the packet to the Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human
Resources . Items in packet include:

Decision to Hire forms

BOH Blue Requisition form

Eligibility List

Job Posting

Copy of RTH form containing BHR number

Oral Interview Evaluation forms

Executed Shakman Certi?cations

Hiring Process Tracking Form

d) contacts candidate for pro-employment

processing including completion of Background Check



 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

POLICY TITLE:
PHYSICIANS

HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

POLICY NUMBER:
HR.1.20

 

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 12I'01i0'i
REVIEWED 3t REVISED: 09i26i08

 

1 CORE POLICY
1 AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

PAGE: 5 of 12

 

 

Request form at the facility and instructs applicant after
completing form to report to Cook County Bureau of HR
for fingerprinting. will call Employee
Health Services (BBS, 312-864-1910) to schedule a ?ll]
health screening.

KEY POINT 5

{fan internai candidate is accepted, tire candidate can be
released witirin 2 weeks. it taites 2 weeks to pat tirem into
payroii.

12.Cook County Bureau of HR [1 Day]
Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources will:
a) Verify the required signatures and approve the BOH Blue
Requisition form
Fax approval to (FAX 3 121-864-9590)
c} Sign Hiring Process Tracking Form
d) Prepaie Grant of Authority

13. Applicant
a) Reports to EHS at designated dateitime for a complete
physical, drug screening, and PPD
b) Reports to Cook County Bureau of HR for ?ngerprinting
with proper identi?cation and supporting documents.

14. Employee Health Service (EHS) [5 Days]
a) Performs health screening according to job position
physical examidrug screeniPPD
b) EHS sends Medical Clearance to 

15. Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ADSS [2-11]

Days]

a) negotiates a start date with the applicant
and schedules hospital orientation for start of next pay
period

b} Submits yellow work order {internal form) and supporting
documents indicating start date to Cook County Bureau
of HR.

c) Signs Hiring Process Tracking Form

Cook County Bureau oil-IR
Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources enters
information into FMIS with starting date.

Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ADSS
Conducts orientation at start of pay period; distributes LD.
badges and directs new employee to their department at
completion of orientation.



Those empioyees, who are taking a promotion, transfer, or
demotion, will not be required to attend orientation, aniess
moving to a new 

KEY POINT 

Tire Cook County Heaitit and Hospitais System is covered
by tire Sirairman Consent Decree and tire Coot: County
Human Resources Ordinance witicit botit strietiy proitibit
poiiticai based airing, firing, promotions, and otirerjob
actions for ait positions, otit er titan exempt positions. in
addition, it is tire poiicy of tire Cooit County Heoitit and
Hospital's System to it ire, promote and retain tire best
anaiitied candidates for positions, wiretiter or not tire
position is'exernpt. For non-exempt positions, tire Cooit
Count}- Sitakntan Certification form for County Personnei
must be executed by ever employee itavirtg apart in tire
itiring or employment process. Appiicants and Candidates
for empioyruent wit! have a separate Sitoitman
Cert?icationform wiricit be executed by the Appiicant
or Candidate as part oftite appiication process and sitaii be
turn ed in witir tire Appiication for empioyntent.

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

POLICY TITLE:
PHYSICIANS

HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

POLICY NUMBER:


 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 12101?)?
REVIEWED REVISED: 09t26108

 

1 CORE POLICY
AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

PAGE: 6 of 12

 

 

PROCESS FOR HIRING PHYSICIANS AND
MID-LEVEL 

I. Division ChieftDepartment Chairman

a) Department identi?es a vacancy and ?mding
b) Completes:

A Job Description

Request to Hire (RTH) with the GradetStep

indicated in appropriate section.
NOTE: Division Chiefs must send the to the
Department Chairman for approval before it can go to the
COO.
Spechjt either candidater' name or on the RTH
c) initiates and executes Cook County Shakman
Certi?cation form for County Personnel

d) Initiates Hiring Process Tracking Form

if position is occupied: attach resignation letter
e) For executivethard to month positions, Department Chair
contacts System CEOtdesignee to request approval of an
outside resource to assist in recruitment. Outside resource
should meet the following criteria:

Approved county vendor

-O Demonstrated experience in recruitment of

positions' skill set

Proven record of of diverse candidates.
f) Department will follow Cook County?s Equal
Employment Opportunity Plan and make a best effort to
promote diversity within the system.

2. Facility Chief Operating Officer (C00) [2 Days]
a) Facility Chief Operating Of?cer (COO) reviews:
RTH
Job Description
Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel
Hiring Process Tracking Form
b) Con?rms the vacancy and funding
c) Signs and forwards all forms to the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System-Administrative Staff Services
Director.
The COO signature is a commitment to maintain the
vacancy and funding as budgeted.

3. Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ADSS
Directortdesignee [3 Days]

The Cook County Health and Hospitals System ADSS
provides the Department
DirectortChainnan with the following forms for each
position:

Copy of completed and signed RTH

Job Description

Oral Interview Evaluation form

Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel

Cook County Shakman Certi?cation for


Decision to Hire form

4. Division ChiefiDepartment Chairman
The Division ChieftDepartrnent Chairman will:
a) Recruit and schedule candidate interviews
b} NOTIFY ofthe interview dates so they
can a?ord the Shakman Comptiance Administrator the
opportunity to be present and observe the interview
process.
c) Interview candidates
d) Complete and submit to 
0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel
0 Cook County Shakman Certi?cation for
(Interviewers shall be
responsible for providing the ApplicantiCandidate
Shakman Certi?cation form to the
applicanttinterviewee as well as collecting the
executed form)
0 Oral Interview evaluation form (one form for each
interviewer for each applicant)
Decision to Hire (DTH) form, with justi?cation
e) Offer position to candidate, pending Quality and Patient
Safety Committee approval
The department completes the Credentialing
Application Request form and retums to the Credentialing
Veri?cation Of?ce (CVO, 312-864-0450).
Note: this starts the 90 Day credentialing clock)

5. Credential Veri?cation Of?ce (CVO) [2 Days]
Sends full credentialing application packet to applicant

6. Applicant
Completes and submits credentialing application packet to
CVO:
Medical staff application (IDPH dc forms)
Clinical privileges (departmental fonn)
Supporting documentation

7. Cook County Health and Hospitals System?ADSS [2
Days]
a) The completes:
Decision-to Hire form
Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel
b) Signs Hiring Process Tracking Form and Cook County
Shakman Certi?cation form for County Personnel

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND POLICY NUMBER:
PHYSICIANS Ha.1.2o
DATE OF ORIGIN: 12:01:07 1 CORE POLICY 
AREA SPECIFIC POLICY 7 ?f 12

 

 

 

 

REVIEWED 8: REVISED: 09i26i08

c) Completes BOH Blue Requisition and holds until
noti?cation of Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Approval.

8. Credentials Veri?cation Of?ce (CVO) [6-8 weeks]
a) credentials application forward to:
Credentials Committee of the EMS
0 Executive Medical Staff .
b) CVO director prepares report for Quality and Patient
Safety Committee in conjunction with the HHS CEO.

9. Quality and Patient Safety Committee [2 Days]
Assistant to Secretary of the Board provides copy of Approved
Stamped Quality and Patient Safety Committee Report to
Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources.

l0. Cook County Bureau ofHuman Resources [1 Day]
Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources receives
nOti?cation of approved Quality and Patient Safety
Committee Report and copies to:
(FAX 312 364 9590)
CVO a (FAX 312 364 9242)

Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ADSS  l
Day]
a) Forwards all completed forms to Deputy Chief, Bureau of
Human Resources.
Signed RTH
. BOH Blue Requisition
Cook County Shakman Certi?cation form for
County Personnel
0 Completed Cook County Shakman Certi?cation for
ApplicantsiCandidates
b) Contacts candidate for pro-employment processing
including completion of Background Check Request form
at the facility and instructs applicant after completing form
to report to Cook County Bureau of HR for ?ngerprints.
will call Employee Health Services (EH3,
312-864-1970) to schedule a full health screening for
applicant.

12. Credentials Verification Of?ce (CVO)
CVO sends out appointment letter to applicant and copies to
Department Chairman and 

KEY POINT 1
if incumbent is vacating, then submit:

Personnel Action form to 033

0 Final time carti w/ vacation payout to Payroll
Submit at least one full pay period before starting tlate

13. Applicant
a) Reports to EHS at designated dateitime fOr a complete
physical, drug screening, and PPD
b) Reports to Cook County Bureau of HR for ?ngerprinting
with proper identi?cation including:
0 Supporting documents for farm l-9

14. Employee Health Service (EH8) [5 Days]
Performs health screening according tojob position,
physical examldrug screeniPPD
EHS sends Medical Clearance to 

15. Cook County Health and Hospitals System?ADSS [2-10

Days]

a) negotiates a start date with the applicant
and schedules hospital orientation for start of next pay
period

b) Submits yellow work order (internal form) and
supporting documents indicating start date to Cook
County Bureau of HR.

l6. Cook County Bureau of Human Resources
a) Grant of Authority prepared
to Deputy Chief, Bureau of Human Resources enters
information into FMIS including starting date.

17. Cook County Health and Hospitals System-ADSS [7-14
Days]
Conducts orientation at start of pay period and distributes
I.D. badges.
Upon conclusion of orientation, directs new
employee to: -
CVO for completion of Medicare provider
enrollment forms
Hiring department

KEY POINT 2

The Cool: County Health and Hospitals system is covered by
the Shainnan Consent Decree and the Cook County Human
Resources Ordinance which both strictly prohibit political
basedr hiring, ?ring, promotions, and oth er job actions for all
positions, other than exempt positions. in addition, it is the
policy of the Cooh County) Health anti Hospitals System to hire,
promote amt retain the best quali?ed candidates for all
positions, whether or not the position is exempt. For non?
exentpt positions, the Cool: Count}I Shairmon Certi?cation form
for County Personnel must be executed by every
employee/physician having a part in the hiring or employment
process. Physician Applicants andr Candidates for employment
will execute the Cool: County Sitaltrnan Execution for
Applicantsi?Cantlitiaies during the interview process; this

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

 

REVIEWED REVISED: OQIZBIDB AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

 

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND POLICY NUMBER:
PHYSICIANS HR.1.20
DATE OF ORIGIN: 12IO1IO7 CORE POLICY PAGE: 8 of 12

 

 

executedform should then be collected during tire interview
process and forwarded with the Hiring Packer.

Administrative Appointment

An administrative appointment will temporarily bypass
steps 3 and 9 above. The Credentialing Application and
supporting documents {step 6) must be received by the CVO
of?ce prior to administrative appointment. Under EMS
Bylaws, an administrative is only valid for 6
months. If Step 8 is not completed within 6 months, the

privileges lapse.-

Division ChieffDepartment Chair
Completes ?Application for Administrative Appointment
andfor Interim Clinical privileges" form and forwards to

CVO of?ce.

Credentials Verification Of?ce
Checks credentials application, signs the ?Application for
Administrative Appointment andfor Interim Clinical
privileges" dc forwards for signature to:

ChiefMedical Officer

,0 Chair, Credentials Committee of the EMS

0 President. Executive Medical Staff

0 Chief Operating Of?cer

After "Application for Administrative Appointment andfor
Interim Clinical privileges? is signed off, Step I 1 above

begins.

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND POLICY NUMBER:
PHYSICIANS HR.1.2D
1 CORE POLICY PAGE 9 of 12

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 
REVIEWED REVISED: DBIZBIOB

 


I

AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

 

 

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND POLICY NUMBER:
PHYSICIANS HR.1.20
PAGE: 10 of 12

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 
REVIEWED 8: REVISED: 09I26I08

 

CORE POLICY
AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND POLICY NUMBER:
PHYSICIANS HR.1.20
1 CORE PAGE: 11 of 12

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 

 

AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

 

 

REVIEWED 8: REVISED: OBIZBIDB

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

POLICY TITLE: HIRING PROCESS FOR NON-PHYSICIANS AND

PHYSICIANS

POLICY NUMBER:
.20

 

DATE OF ORIGIN: 12101107
REVIEWED 8? REVISED: 09I26I08

 

CORE POLICY
AREA SPECIFIC POLICY

 

PAGE: 12 of 12

 

 

 

 

