Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System held Friday, December 7, 2012 at the hour of 9:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Golden called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Quin R. Golden and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler, Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD and
Jorge Ramirez (4)
Board Chairman David Carvalho (ex-officio)

Absent:

Director Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply Chain
Management
Claudia Fegan, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County
Gladys Lopez – System Interim Director of Human
Resources
Maureen O’Donnell – System Interim Chief Human
Resource Officer and Chief, Cook County Bureau
of Human Resources

II.

Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Tanda Russell – System Interim Chief Nursing
Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board

Public Speakers
Chairman Golden asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speakers:
1.
2.

Kathy Ross, RN
George Blakemore

Nurse, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Concerned Citizen

In response to comments regarding recruitment efforts for the position of System Director of Human Resources,
Chairman Golden stated that Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, is engaged in search efforts to fill key
leadership positions, including the position of the System Director of Human Resources.
Following the presentation of public testimony by Ms. Ross, during which the subject of nurse staffing was
referenced, Tanda Russell, System Interim Chief Nursing Officer, provided further information on the subject.
She stated that there was an evaluation of the staffing model for that department, to review the best way to realign
the staff at that time; as a result, some adjustments were made in the department. Under the Collective Bargaining
Agreement with National Nurses Organizing Committee (NNOC), there is a provision for what is called “floating
clusters”; the Catheterization (Cath) Lab is part of a floating cluster. Management is trying to orient staff from
the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU), who have the critical care background and qualifications to support the
Cath Lab. She stated that this is critical for treatment of ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI)
patients and similar patients.
Ms. Russell noted that there were also an additional couple of retirements and reassignments lately; those
positions that were recently vacated are on a hiring list through the regular replacement plan. As management has
adjusted the model, it has been an evolution for staff. The management team reviews this matter on an ongoing
basis and tries to make adjustments as necessary to meet the staffing demand, in relation to the patient population.
Page 1 of 27

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, December 7, 2012
Page 2

II.

Public Speakers (continued)
Ms. Russell noted that, according to benchmarks, the System were slightly overstaffed in that area; it was felt that
the redeployment of staff was an appropriate thing to do at the time, due to some of the issues that come up in the
hiring process and how long it was going to take to replace personnel.
Director Morris inquired whether there is a timetable set for staffing needs. Ms. Russell stated that it depends on
the specialty. It is especially challenging to staff for specialty areas like the post-anesthesia recovery room and
neonatal unit – those are areas that require a great deal of clinical nursing expertise, and qualified candidates are
difficult to find. Right now, the System does not have the resources in some areas to take inexperienced
personnel and educate them. There is a lot of potential internally to hire into those specialty areas and train them;
however, management needs to ensure that the foundation is there.
Chairman Golden added that this subject came up at the Finance Committee Meeting held earlier that day; a
member of the administration also addressed the subject at that time.

III.

**Report from System Human Resources Department
A. Report from Interim Director of Human Resources (Attachment #1)
i.
Employment Plan Status
Gladys Lopez, System Interim Director of Human Resources, and Elizabeth Reidy, System General Counsel,
provided an update on the Employment Plan status. Information reviewed in their update included the following
subjects: Shakman Compliance; Shakman Partnership; and Employment Plan Update.
Additionally, Ms. Lopez provided an update on the following subjects: Recruiting Update; Internal Candidates /
Promotions; Vacancies Filled Through December 3, 2012; Update on the Three (3) Major CCHHS Critical Hiring
Projects; Quantifying, Tracking and Reporting Progress; CCHHS Hiring Snapshot 12/5/12; and Weekly
Comparison of Data. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
With regard to the Hiring Snapshot, Board Chairman Carvalho noted that it reflects that there are 174 positions for
which interviews with multiple potential candidates are currently being held; he surmised that an enormous
amount of management’s time is being used for conducting interviews. Ms. Lopez concurred; she stated that Dr.
Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, has indicated to senior management that, because this is a 24/7 organization,
if management cannot conduct interviews between 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. during the work day, then plans need
to be made to either come in early, stay late or conduct the interviews on the weekend.
Dr. Raju provided additional information on the Hiring Snapshot. He stated that historically, the System has
always had an unrealistic number of unfilled positions. Of the 938 vacant positions approved in the 2013 budget,
the goal is to fill 441 positions by February 1st, and the remaining 500 positions before the end of 2013. With
regard to Director Morris’ question regarding the total System need, he stated that 938 positions is not the total
need; 938 is the number of positions that the System has projected to fill in 2013. The total need is definitely
greater than that. As the System is transformed as a result of the implementation of the Section 1115 Waiver
Demonstration Project, there needs to be a review of the organization to discuss and determine several things, and
the Board will need to revisit the Strategic Plan. Once that plan is shaped, then the administration can figure out
how many people are needed.
Dr. Raju stated that the System is currently working with several partners who are providing pro-bono assistance
and expertise; these partners are currently studying the System and will be coming up with an overall plan.
Chairman Carvalho has asked that the Board receive a briefing on the subject; there will be a presentation by the
pro-bono Civic Consulting Alliance in January to the Board.
Page 2 of 27

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, December 7, 2012
Page 3

III.

**Report from System Human Resources Department (continued)
Director Morris indicated that he would like to receive information regarding customer satisfaction and
highlights/client testimonials focusing on front line workers. Chairman Golden noted that Dr. Raju often includes
the recognition of front-line worker achievements in his report to the Board; additionally, the System engages
Press Ganey to conduct surveys on customer satisfaction.

 

IV.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Review and discussion of current proposed contractual requests for temporary/augmenting staffing
services, presented to the Finance Committee for approval at their December 7, 2012 Meeting
The Committee discussed the subject of presenting information to the Human Resources Committee on proposed
contractual requests for temporary/augmenting staffing services that are presented to the Finance Committee.
Chairman Golden indicated that the purpose of this is to review these kinds of contracts that involve human
capital from a big picture perspective. She stated that the Committee would like to have a macro view of the
consultants and temporary workforce staff that the System has in place. She added that the Committee often
discusses the importance of transferring knowledge from consultants over to the System’s in-house staff; the
Committee wants to see how that is aligned.
She requested that the following information be included: total on board in a temporary role; how long they are
planning on being there; and how is that aligned with some of the critical positions and other positions that are
being filled. Ms. Lopez stated that this information can be compiled in a matrix and updated as new requests are
presented for approval to the Finance Committee.
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, provided an overview of the request to execute
a contract with Xerox for the provision of temporary Supply Chain resources support; this support is to
supplement the existing staff and fill in the gaps of current open positions for a temporary period of time.

V.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meetings of September 21, 2012 and November 16, 2012
Director Butler, seconded by Director Morris, moved to accept the minutes of the meeting
of the Human Resources Committee of September 21, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Ramirez, seconded by Director Butler, moved to accept the minutes of the meeting
of the Human Resources Committee of November 16, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements (Attachment #2)
i.
ii.

AFSCME 1111, 1178 and 1276 (Health Facilities Employees) – Collective Bargaining
Agreement
Fraternal Order of Police (Oak Forest Health Facilities Security Officers) – Collective
Bargaining Agreement

Page 3 of 27

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, December 7, 2012
Page 4

V.

Action Items
B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements (continued)
Maureen O’Donnell, System Interim Chief Human Resource Officer and Chief of the Cook County Bureau of
Human Resources, presented the two (2) proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements for the Committee’s
consideration.
Action was taken on this item following the adjournment of closed session.
Director Butler, seconded by Director, moved to approve the two (2) proposed Collective
Bargaining Agreements. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections V and VI
VI.

Closed Session Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters
**Report from System Human Resources Department
**Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Item IV(B))
Director Morris, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which permits closed meetings for consideration of
“the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding
“collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against,
affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Golden and Directors Butler, Morris and Ramirez (4)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Director Wiese (1)

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee convened into closed
session.
Chairman Golden declared that the closed session was adjourned.
reconvened into regular session.
Page 4 of 27

The Committee

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, December 7, 2012
Page 5

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Golden declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Quin R. Golden, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 5 of 27

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
December 7, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 6 of 27

 Human Resources Committee
Meeting
December 7
7, 2012

CCHHS – Strengthening Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

Page 7 of 27

 Shakman Compliance
• CCHHS HR Staff Training:
‐ Cook County Hiring processes
‐ Shakman Decree and how it relates to everything 
y
g
we do in HR
‐ Taleo – specifically, the validation process

• Months of hard work by the team:
‐ Geri Evans
Geri Evans
‐ Phyllinis Easter
‐ LaKeisha Freeman
LaKeisha Freeman

‐ Charmaine Jackson
Charmaine Jackson
‐ Antoinette Middleton

2
Page 8 of 27

 Shakman Partnership
• Credibility built by the team has resulted in:
C dibilit b ilt b th t
h
lt d i
‐ Progress being made with our Employment Plan
‐ A collaborative working relationship with the 
A collaborative working relationship with the
Shakman Compliance Administrator’s Office
‐ Flexibility afforded by the Shakman Compliance 
lexibility afforded by the Shakman Compliance
Administrator’s Office with the hiring process as it 
relates to the 3 Major Recruiting Initiatives (1115 
Waiver, Cermak and Joint Commission)

3
Page 9 of 27

 Shakman Partnership
• Notice of scheduled interviews has been changed 
from 48‐72 hours notice to 24 hours notice
• Review by the Shakman Administrator’s office of 
Decisions to Hire has been reduced to 24 hours
• Interview panels can be 2 members (instead of 3)
• For Medical Assistant and CNI 1115 Waiver positions, 
there is flexibility with regard to candidate eligibility 
f
for more than one posting
th
ti

4
Page 10 of 27

 Employment Plan Update
• Cook County’s Employment Plan went into effect on 
March 19, 2012.  Portions are still being negotiated 
(e.g., Actively Recruited category)
• The CCHHS Employment Plan will be an Amendment 
to the Cook County Employment Plan 
• We are working very closely with the Shakman 
Administrator’s Office (Ms. Sherrie Travis and Mr. 
Matt Pryor) on the Employment Plan
• The Employment Plan will outline in detail CCHHS’ 
Th E l
Pl
ill
li i d il CCHHS’
Hiring Process and mirrors many of the same County 
processes
5
Page 11 of 27

 Employment Plan Update
• Our draft plan includes 6 exceptions to the 
Plan’ss General Hiring Process:
Plan
General Hiring Process:
1. Statutory Appointments (such as the CEO) –
governed by County Ordinance
governed by County Ordinance
2. Department, Division and Section Chairs of the 
Medical Departments of the Hospital Medical
Medical Departments of the Hospital Medical 
Staffs – governed by the Medical Staff ByLaws
3. Resident Physicians and Fellows ‐
y
selected 
pursuant to the National Resident Matching 
Program
6
Page 12 of 27

 Employment Plan Update
• Exceptions to the Plan include:
4 Direct Appointment*
4.
Direct Appointment* Positions (about 37)
Positions (about 37)
√
√

Senior Leadership & Key Management Positions
An expedited hiring process; no Taleo posting
required

5. Actively Recruited
6. Executive Assistant Hiring

*Anticipating Agreed Order on Direct Appointments prior to 
the filing of CCHHS’ Employment Plan.
7
Page 13 of 27

 Recruiting Update
• A
A total of 321 vacancies have been filled 
total of 321 vacancies have been filled
through December 3, 2012
‐ 12 Re‐Hires
12 R Hi
‐ 96 Re‐Calls
‐ 72 Internal Candidates 
‐ 141 External Candidates

8
Page 14 of 27

 Internal Candidates / Promotions

• Nurse Coordinator to Divisional Nursing 
Director

9
Page 15 of 27

 1 inl'acancies Filled Through December 3, 21112 Breakdown by Position

 

Candidate Source

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Re-Hire Re-Call Internal External Total
Nurses
APN?Nurse Practitioner 2 2 4
Clinical Case Manager 1 2 3
Clinical Nurse 1 13 43 15-3
Clinical Nurse 3 3
Clinical Performance Improvement Analyst 1 1
Divisional Nursing Director 1 1
ln?House Registry Nurse 1 
Nurse Coordinator 1 1 2
Nurse Epidemiologist 1 1
Registered Nurse 1 1 92 Nurses I
Nurse Subtotal 4' 27 152 93
Licensed Practical Nurse 4 4 4 LPNs I
LPN Subtotal i} 4 4
Physicians
Attending Physician 1 1 13 15
Attending Physician 1 1 2
Attending Physician 3 1 1
Attending Physician 1i] 1 1
Attending Physician 12 1 2 1 4
Attending Physicain Senior 5 1 2 3
Attending Physicain Senior 3 1 1
Attending Physician Senior 12 2 2
Consultants {Physicians} 3 3
Correctional 1 1 2
Divisional Chief of Correctional 1 1
Medical Division Chair 1 1
Medical Division Chair 3 1 1
Medical Division Chair 3 1 1 2
Medical Division Chair 11] 2 2
Medical Division Chair 11 1 1
1 1 43 ?Us 
Physician Subtotal 5 0' til 23 43 10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 16 of 27

1lir'acancies Filled Thrcugh December 3, EH12 Breakdown by Pcsiticn

 

Candidate Ecurce

 

Re-Hire

Re-Call

Internal

External



 

Clinical 

 

Administrative Aide

 

Administrative Assistant II

 

Administrative Assistant 

 

Administrative Assistant I?v'

 

Anesthesia Tech



 

Attendant Patient Care

 

Certi?ed Nursing Attendant

 

Dietitian 

 

Dietitian I?v'

 

Directer cf Amhulatery, Specialty 3; Pediatric

 

EKG Tech

 

Emergency Flespense Tech

 

Emergency Fiesm Tech II

 

Health Advccate

 

Health Service Representative

 

Interpreter

 

Laheratery Technician 

 

Medical Assistant

12

 

Medical Secial 1Ii'li'erlrer 

 

Medical Tech 

 

Dperating Fleem Technician

 

Pathelcgist Extender

 

Pharmacist

c?Lm

 

Pharmacy Technician

 

Physician Asst. Pest Graduate Flesident

 

Physical Therapist 

 

Respiratery Therapist

 

Flespiratery Therapist Superviser

 

Staff Pharmacist

 

CCH

12

 

Ward Clerk

1i)?

Clinical 

 

 

 

Clinics! Suppurt Submits!

 

4'6

 

?lT

 

37

 

 

 

Page 17 of 27

11

1ll'acancies Filled Through December 3, 2012 Breakdown by Position

 

Candidate Source

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Re-Hire Re-Call Internal External Total
C'ther
Accounts Payable Supervisor 1 1
Administrative Analyst 1 1
Building Service 1Ii'll'orker 21 21
Business Of?ce Supervisor 2 2
Casevvorker 1 1
Cashier Ill 1 1
Corporate Compliance D?icer 1 1
CED Executive Assistant 1 1 2
Chief Medical Information D?icer 1 1
Clerk 21 23
Computer Operator 1 1
Director of Strategic SourcingJContract 1 1
Management
Electrician 1 1
Food Service Worker 1 1
Groundskeeper 1 1
Human Resources Generalist 2 2
Learning 3. Development Assist- 1 1
Operating Engineer 1 1
Pat Access Supervisor,Fin Coun 1 1 2
Payroll Division Supervisor Ill 1 1
Project Leader Data Systems 1 1
Public Safety Dflicer 1 1
Receptionist 1 1
Steno 1 1 2
Steno 2 2
Supervisor Patient Access-Pre Registration 1 1 T9 Gther I
Dlher Subfola.? i? 50 13 10 79
Total: 12 95 T2 141 321
411% 3% 221% 441%
House Staff
Physician Assistant Training 4 4
Post Graduate Level Physician 1?9 11?r
Post Graduate Pharmacist {Residents} 2 2
GRAND TOTAL: 5 115 123 123 House Staff
TDTAL vacancies 2c as re ass 444

 

Page 18 of 27

Update on the 3 Major CCHHS Critical Hiring 
I iti ti
Initiatives
• Over
Over the past month, the CCHHS Recruiting team has 
the past month the CCHHS Recruiting team has
been working closely with the CBHR Team, members 
of Cook County’s Budget Team, IT Team and David 
y
g
,
LeBreton from the President’s Office on the 3 critical 
hiring initiatives (1115 Waiver; Cermak; Joint 
Commission)
• A tremendous amount of time and effort has gone 
into the centralization of key data for each vacancy 
HR is working on
HR is working on
13
Page 19 of 27

 Quantifying, Tracking & Reporting Progress
• A “mega spreadsheet” was created in googledocs 
and access provided to all CCHHS Recruiting CBHR
and access provided to all CCHHS Recruiting, CBHR 
and relevant County Budget staff to enter and update
• Over the course of the past month we have worked 
collectively on the spreadsheet to ensure it is 
y
p
capturing all the data points needed for purposes of 
quantifying, tracking and most importantly, being 
able  to generate meaningful reports of the data

14
Page 20 of 27

 Quantifying, Tracking & Reporting Progress
• Another initiative that has been underway over the 
past four weeks is the creation of a database that will
past four weeks is the creation of a database that will 
house the data
• Data from the “mega spreadsheet” has been loaded 
into the database – which is currently being tested
• We anticipate a Go Live date of no later than 
Monday, December 10, 2012

15
Page 21 of 27

 CCHHS Hiring Snapshot 12/5/12
CCHHS Hiring Snapshot (11/27 - 12/5)
500

Count of positions

450
400
350
300
250

441
0

52
0

44
28

67
0

15
0

36
0

174
52

200
150
100

18

50

0

0

1

3

Change in total since last update
16

Page 22 of 27

15

20
5

 Weekly Comparison of Data


tn
Hire
EIe?Jre
E-nuree FE-IJ 1

JE EEI
Erther E-E-
32
Eli-E 1T3
Gland
Tetal 4-15
llf?fl?ll
Elle tn
Hire
Ele?J-re
Seuree Feb 1
1 
J: EE-
Erther EE

Elia-er 1?33
Gland
Tetal ?1:11

Pa p-eru'uerlr.
lEdrn plete

EElEdrn plete


EE-





37"

155

335

Heating fer
Peeted Interview Identi?ed



Fltet'erred

4325- 1E:
123 
2?1 21? 1TH
F-teferred
Pasting fer
Interview
El2133 22?

Page 23 of 27

Ca nd id-E'E- i re 
Identi?ed

dam-4m:

r_n r_11





Er]

Ca nd idate
Identi?ed

Hire Date
Identi?ed

I r_'n r_11 r_?n

tin?

Hire Date
Identi?ed



15

Hired



I3

Closed Session
December 7, 2012

 

 

 

Page 24 of 27

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
December 7, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 25 of 27

 Transmitting a Communication dated, December 7, 2012 from
MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement

WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees Union, Council 31, AFL-CIO (AFSCME)
representing Cook County Health Facilities Employees; and

WHEREAS, general wage increases and salary adjustments have already been approved and
are reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated between the County of Cook and the American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees Union, Council 31, (AFSCME); and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook
and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Union, Council 31,
(AFSCME) as provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.

Page 26 of 27

 Transmitting a Communication dated, December 7, 2012 from
MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement

WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the Fraternal Order of
Police (FOP) representing the Oak Forest Health Facilities Security Officers; and
WHEREAS, general wage increases and salary adjustments have already been approved and
are reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated between the County of Cook and the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP); and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook
and the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) as provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.

Page 27 of 27

 