Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

DECEMBER 5, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Chairman Warren L. Batts; Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell, MD, 
Hon. Jerry Butler; David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, MPH, 
Sister Sheila Lyne, Luis Mu?oz, MD, Heather B. O'Donnell, JD, LLM and Andrea

Zopp (11)
None (0)

Avery Hart, MD Chief Medical Of?cer, Cermak Health Services; Michael Berman, MD -
Cook County Department of Public Health; Pitt Calkin Interim Chief Financial Of?cer, Cook
County Health and Hospitals System; Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County; Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Randall Mark Director of Policy Analysis, .
Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Stephen Martin, MPH Chief Operating
Of?cer, Cook County Department of Public Health; Jeff McCutchan Supervisor, Transactions
and Health Law Division, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Hon. Anthony Peraica Cook County
Commissioner; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s
Attorney; David R. Small Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals
System; Joseph Sova Chief, Cook County Bureau of Human Resources

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on Friday,
December 5, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the ?fth floor
conference room, in Chicago, Illinois. 

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow. .

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of members and
it was determined that a quorum was present.

 

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2008 AT 7:30 A.M.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Thursday, November 13,, 2008. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF- THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DECEMBER 5, 2008
Page 2

REPORT FROM SYSTEM BOARD CHAIRMAN WARREN L. BATTS
Chairman Batts provided information or updates on the following subjects.
Meetings with outside consulting ?rm to expedite Strategy work

Chairman Batts indicated that meetings have taken place with an outside consulting ?rm, attended by'Directors
Greenspan and Golden, to discuss the possibility of expediting the strategy work; he stated that the Board needs
to give thought as to what the mission should be.

Discussions on bringing in management group to expedite progress

Chairman Batts provided the Board with an update on discussions that have taken place on the subject of
bringing in a management group to expedite progress at the System.

Meeting with public relations ?rm

Chairman Batts informed the Board that a meeting was held with Hill and Knowlton, a public relations ?rm, to
explore the possibility of getting assistance with the System?s public relations effort. They have come forWard
with a preliminary proposal which would utilize focus groups. He stated that the subject needs to be discussed
further before submitting the proposal to the Finance Committee.

Chairman Batts asked Directors Greenspan and Golden to provide the Board with their thoughts on the subject
in the near future.

Creation of Working Group to Review System A ?iliations and Relationships with Medical
Schools 

Chairman Batts stated that he has asked Director Lyne to head up a group, which includes Vice Chairman
Ramirelz and Director O?Donnell, to review the System?s af?liations and relationships with the local medical
schools .

 

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM INTERIM
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER DAVID R. SMALL

David R. Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, reported on
the following subjects.

State Plan Amendment Update -

Mr. Small stated that formal approval had been given by the federal government on the State Plan Amendment,
and distributed a press release (Attachment on the subject. Discussion took place, and Randall Mark,
Director of Policy Analysis at the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, provided additional information.
During this discussion, the subject of renegotiating the Intergovernmental Transfer Agreements arose; Director
Carvaiho stated that Director O?Donnell?s expertise in this area should be utilized in these complex efforts.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DECEMBER 5, 2008
Page 3

2009 Budget Update

Mr. Small informed the Board of the four public hearings on the budget presently set by the County Board?s
Finance Committee, in locations across the County. He added that they are scheduled to conduct the
departmental review of the System?s 2009 Budget at its meeting on Friday, December 12, 2008 at 10:00 AM.
As this meeting con?icts with the System Board?s Finance Committee meeting scheduled for that day, Finance
Chairman Carvalho indicated that his meeting would be rescheduled to later that day, and would meet at the
County Building.

Cermak Health Services

Mr. Small stated that discussions have taken place on the feasibility of entering into a Memorandum of
Agreement with the Cook County Sheriff, which would ensure the highest level of collaboration through a
formalized agreement.

Additionally, Mr. Small stated that the Sheriff is looking to charge fees out of the detainees? individual
commissary accounts for medical services provided to detainees at Cermak Health Services.

The Board discussed?the subject. Dr. Avery Hart, Chief Medical Of?cer of Cermak Health Services, provided
additional information. He stated that the proposal is not about dollars, rather, it is an effort to reduce frivolous
requests for services; very few detainees would be charged under this proposal.

Director Butler inquired whether an opinion on the proposal was available from the John Howard Association or
from the Federal government representatives currently involved at Cermak.

. Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the
State?s Attorney, responded that it is something worth looking into.

Mr. Small stated that the proposal is in committee and is expected to be heard in the next week; he could provide
copies of it, along with preliminary comments on it, by the end'of the day.

Director Zopp requested that a representative from the Sheriff?s Of?ce present this proposal to the Board, so that

further detailed discussion could take place. She added that these discussions should include representatives
from the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce and a legal representative from the Sheriff?s Of?ce.

Status of Various Request for Proposals
Mr. Small provided the Board with information on several Request for Proposals (RFP) that are currently in
process for ?nalization. These include RFPs for internal audit services, search ?rm services, strategic planning
assistance services, and turnaround stabilization services.

Preliminary Revenue Estimate for 2008

Mr. Small presented information on the preliminary revenue estimate for 2008. The Board discussed the
information.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COO-K COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DECEMBER 5, 2008

Page 4

Formation of System-wide Groups
Mr. Small provided information on the formation of System-wide groups. He stated that the Diversity Council
is being re?activated. Sylvia Edwards, Chief Operating Officer at Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County, has
agreed to chair a customer service taskforce. A personnel policy review group has been created and is headed
by Sandra Ankebrant, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Ambulatory and Community Health Network.

Chairman Batts stated that customer service reports should be received regularlyz.

In response to a question from Director Golden with regard to purchasing issues, Mr. Small responded that an
operational plan with milestones will be available at the next meeting3.

Miscellaneous

Director Golden referenced a ?yer was distributed, providing information on meetings that will be held with
employees, and asked Mr. Small to provide additional information.

Mr. Small stated that meetings will be held at each of the facilities to invite staff to participate in general
question and answer sessions. This will give staff the opportunity to directly receive updates on various issues.

 

REPORT FROM SYSTEM INTERIM
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER DR. JOHN RABA

Dr. John Raba, Interim Chief Medical Of?cer Of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, presented
information on the following subjects.

System-wide Integration

Dr. Raba stated that there are eleven areas where integration is currently taking place. He will be providing an
organizational chart of integrated system at the next meeting.

Accountability and Productivity Standards and Benchmarks

Dr. Raba presented information on accountability and productivity standards that currently exist at the System;
discussion took place on future goals.

Privileging and By-Laws
Dr. Raba informed the Board that work is. continuing on drafting System-wide By-Laws.
Meetings of the System?s Chief Medical O?icers

Dr. Raba stated that the System?s Chief Medical Officers have started to meet regularly on a basis.

 

 REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DECEMBER 5, 2008
Page 5

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of 10-21-08*
(Deferred on October 30 and November 13, 2008)
note: Medical Staff were approved by the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee at this meeting. 

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Mn?oz, moved to approve the Report of the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee for the meeting of October 21, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Of 11-17?08

Director by Director Ansell, moved to approve the Report of the Audit and Compliance
Committee for the meeting of November 17, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Human Resources Committee. . . . . Meeting of 1 1-24-08

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Human Resources
Committee for the meeting of November 24, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Finance Committee Meeting of 11-24-08*
note: Contracts and Procurement Items were approved, as amended, by the Finance
Committee at this meeting. 

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to approve the Report of the Finance
Committee for the meeting of November 24, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of 1 1-25-08*
note: Medical Staff were approved by the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee at this meeting.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DECEMBER 5, 2008
Page 6

Director Ansell distributed to the Board the quarterly quality report from John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County, which was presented at the November 25, 2008 meeting. He stated that the Joint Commission requires
that the Board receive reports on performance on a regular basis4.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to approve the Report of the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee for the meeting of November 25,2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of 12~05?08

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Zopp, moved to approve the recommendation to the Board made
by the Audit and Compliance Committee at its meeting on December 5, 2008, to enter into and execute
the contract with Deloitte Touche for the performance audit of MedAss'ets? contingency contract.

Director Ansell requested clari?cation on the motion; at the Audit and Compliance Committee meeting, he
believed that it was understood that performance audits would be required on all contingency contracts, not just
speci?cally MedAssets.

Chairman Batts stated that the intent is that as a policy, performance audits will be required on all contingency
contracts.

On the motion to approve the recommendation to the Board made by the Audit and Compliance
Committee at its meeting on December 5, 2008, to enter into and execute the contract with Deloitte 
Touche for the performance audit of MedAssets? contingency contract, a voice vote was taken and THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REVIEW AND APPROVE A PROPOSAL FOR THE CONSOLIDATION OF 
. SURGICAL SERVICES FOR THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM, PHASE 1

Mr. Small stated that further internal review would take place on this item; it will be deferred to the next
meeting of the Board of Directors-

Director Carvalho suggested that a committee, or subgroup, review the proposal in detail prior to the Board?s
review. Chairman Batts indicated that the proposal could fall under several committees; Director Ansell
suggested that the Committee Chairmen of Audit and Compliance, Finance, and Human Resources review the
proposal prior to the Board?s review?.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DECEMBER 5, 2008
Page 7

RECEIVE AND FILE THE FOLLOWING REPORTS
FROM THE COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH:

Cook County Department of Public Health 2007 Annual Report; and
. Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2007.

Dr. Stephen Martin, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Cook County Department of Public Health, presented the
reports. (See Attachments #2 and Dr. Michael Berman, of the Cook County Department of Public Health,
provided additional information.

Director Butler, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to receive and ?le the Cook County Department
of- Public Health 2007 Annual Report and the Cook County Department of Public Health Annual
Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2007. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

UPDATE FROM AD HOC STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE

Director Golden provided an update on strategic planning efforts. She stated that at the next meeting, they will
share the information gained from the comments that were received at the plenary session meeting. She stated
that during the discussions, it was apparent that a robust discussion should be held at the Board level on the
System?s mission and future direction. This should hopefully take place at the ?rst Board meeting in January.

Meetings have been held with consulting ?rms on the possibility of engaging outside help with the strategic
planning process; an RFP is in development for this purpose.

In response to a comment from Director Mu?oz with regard to the possibility of a retreat session, Chairman
Batts informed the Board that the Union League has offered their facility. Further discussion took place, on the
logistics involved with planning sucha retreat and complying with the Open Meetings Act.

 

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et seq., which
permits closed meetings for consideration of ?Collective negotiating matters between the public body and
its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,? and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS which
permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of speci?c employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body,
including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity.? THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
DECEMBER 5,2008
Page 8

PUBLIC COMMENTS

Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.

Mr. DeLeon replied that there were none.

 

ADJOURNMENT

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED. 

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

\s 93%

WarrenL. Batts, Chairman

Attest:

@753 

/Ma?gaewB. DeLeon, Secretary

 

The following was requested or was indicated as a follow-up item at this meeting:

 

1 Working Group Created: headed by Director Lyne and including Vice Chairman Ramirez and Director
O?Donnell, to review the System?s af?liations and relationships with the local medical schools. On page 2.

2 Request to receive customer service reports on a regular basis. On page 4.

3 Follow?up: With regard to purchasing issues, an operational plan with milestones will be available at the next
meeting. On page 4. (David Small)

4 Follow?up: Joint Commission requires that the Board receive reports on performance on a regular basis. On
page 6.

5 Statement of Policy: As a policy, performance audits will be required on all contingency contracts. On page 6.

6 Follow?up: Committee Chairmen of Audit and Compliance, Finance, and Human Resources to review the
proposal for the consolidation of surgical services for the Cook County Health and HOSpitals System, Phase 1,
prior to the Board?s review. On page 6.

9
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
December 5, 2008

ATTACHMENT #1

 Governor Blagojevich?s Hospital Assessment
Plan Wins Formal Approval from the Federal
Government
Federal approval of Governor 3s 2009 Hospital
Assessment will direct over $775 million of federal dollars

to Illinois hospitals and Medicaid providers
CHICAGO On the heels of reports that the nation is in an economic recession,
hospitals and other medical providers will receive millions of federal dollars to help them

care for Medicaid patients, Governor Rod R. Blagojevich announced today. The federal

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMMS) approved the Governor?s 2009
Hospital Assessment, which he advocated for and signed this summer. Federal approval
means hospitals, especially those with high volumes of Medicaid patients, will receive
millions of additional dollars in federal matching funds.

?This is a great day for hospitals and Medicaid providers throughout Illinois because they
will now get the resources they need to help them continue treating some of the most
underserved communities in our state,? said Governor Blagoj evich. ?Low-income
families, seniors and people with disabilities rely on the Medicaid services these hospitals
provide. I would like to thank lawmakers for overwhelmingly passing the legislation that
I signed to help make this assessment a reality.?

Under this ?ve-year agreement between Illinois and the federal government, the Illinois
Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HF S) will distribute an estimated annual
amount of over $1.5 billion in Medicaid payments to hospitals. The federal government
matches these payments and sends Illinois over $775 million in matching funds. The state
then collects $900 million in taxes ?om hospitals to help support this spending. Through
this process, hospitals gain $640 million in increased ?nding, and $130 million is made
available for critical services delivered by other Medicaid providers as well.

would like to thank lawmakers and our many industry partners, including the Illinois
Hospital Association, the Association of Safety Net Hospitals, Senator Schoenberg,
Representative Currie and Cook County?s Stroger Hospital, who worked with the

Department to help us secure federal approval for this hospital assessment plan. Through

this agreement, Illinois hospitals will receive vital funding for years to come,? said HFS
Directory Barry S. Maram. ?And I would especially like to thank Governor Blagojevich
for his continued leadership in achieving not only this new hospital assessment plan but
in achieving two previous hospital plans that brought nearly $2.3 billion in federal dollars
to Illinois.? 

HFS will distribute the money to hospitals duringthe course of the year through 
payments, greatly assisting these providers in dif?cult economic times. The amount of
money a hospital receives is based on the various services it provides to Medicaid
patients. The additional funding recognizes hospitals that provide obstetrical, 
and rehabilitative services, capital costs and other types of services. .

The_approval also includes signi?cant funding for Cook County?s Stroger Hospital
through a federal funding stream used to compensate those serving a disproportionate
share of Medicaid and uninsured individuals.

10

11

Before Governor Blagojevich came into of?ce, no hospital assessment plan existed.
During that time, hundreds of millions of federal healthcare dollars did not come to the
state of Illinois, as a result. The ?rst hospital assessment plan approved by the federal
government brought $490 million to Illinois in just more than one year The last plan,
which ended on July 1, 2008, brought $1 8 billion to Illinois This latest approval will
bring over $3 8 billion to Illinois over ?ve years.

12
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
December 5, 2008

ATTACHMENT #2

 13

9

mo Ewiiawg

imam



 

 

 

The Honorable Edd H. Stroger

President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

 

 

14

Who We Are One ofSez/en A?lz'oros of #76 Cook County Hook/9 and Hospitals 5351:6771

 

be Cook County Department ofPulalic Health 
is I of 7 o?i?liates oft/ye Cook County Health and Hospitals
System 

is the second largest division of Cook County A
government and one of the largest public health systems

in the country. It is a leader in innovative health programs
and provides a variety of healthcare services ranging from
preventive and primary care, prenatal care, communicable
diseases, and. environmental health; to long?term care,
rehabilitation and geriatric medicine. also targets
diseases and conditions affecting Cook County residents;
including asthma, diabetes, trauma, cancer and
highwrisk pregnancies and births.

Established in 1945, is the state?certi?ed public
health agency For suburban Cook County; with the
exception of Chicago, Evanston, Skokie, Oak Paul: and
Stickney Township, where state?certi?ed public health

departments are operated by the local units of government.

assures the health of its residents through
such activities as disease surveillance and investigation,
environmental inspections and licensure, chronic disease

screenings, immunizations, and health policy development.

As a safety net for under?served and at?risk populations,
assesses the changing health needs of its diverse
communities by working with community and faith-based
organizations, schools, hospitals, private providers, and
local, state and-federal governments to plan for services and
programs. To promote healthy behaviors and prevent the
spread of diseases, provides communities with
health information as well as technical assistance for grant

writing and coalition development.
Please note: The Cook County Bureau ofHeolr/J Services was renamed t/ze Cook

County Health and Hospitals oyster" in 2008. This 2007 report use: the new name,
as it is being released in 2008.

15

A Message from Chief Operating Of?cer Step/9m A. Martin MPH

 

Theyear 2007 was an exciting onefor
the Cook County Department of
Public Health.

is responsible for oversight

and enforcement of the Cook 

prohibiting smoking in all public
places and making suburban Cook

 

County a much healthier area to live,
work and play. Cook County Commissioners passed the
ordinance in 2006 and it took effect on March 15, 2007.

The Communicable Disease Control Unit also
assumed responsibility for tuberculosis prevention and
treatment services in July 2007, per the 2006 dissolution

of the Suburban Cook County Tuberculosis Sanitarium
District by the State of Illinois General Assembly. As a result
is better able to serve residents; especially those

3

with multiple public health issues, including HIV.

County Clean Indoor Air Ordinance 

With the threat of a worldwide disease outbreak such as
pandemic ?u making headlines, began a series of
presentations to schools and businesses about emergency
preparedness. Municipal leaders, ?rst responders, business
owners and residents received information about how to
prepare their homes, businesses and families for pandemic
inaddition, the Be Aware, Get Prepared Campaign
included newspaper inserts and bus ads encouraging resi?

dents to prepare for public health emergencies.

Please read through this annual report and learn more about
the important work we do everyday to help suburban Cook
County residents live longer, healthier lives.

Sincerely,

$4

Stephen A. Mar in, In,
Chief Operating Of?cer
Cook County Department of Public Health

16

 

Dedication
Lillie Kilo
(1936?2008)

This annual report, which was produced in 2008, is dedicated in fond memory of
Employee Lillie Kilo (1936?2008). In a resolution by the Honorable Todd H.
Stroger, President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, Mrs. Kilo was recognized

in 2008 for 38 years of service to the Cook County Department of Public Health.

17

Cook County Department of Public Health Introduction

 

Our Mission

protect nnel promote laenlt/o
nnelpreoent illness, disability and premature dent/9

among all residents of suburban Coo/e County

I Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

lV/mt W/e Do

Assessment
Monitor Health

Diagnose and In 

Policy Development
Inform, Educate, Empower
Mooilize Community Partnerships
Develop Policies, Plans and Program

Assurance
Enforce Lows
Link to and Provide Core
Assure Competent VVork?Jrce

Evaluate Policies, Plans and Programs

18

 

Our APP TOthb Linking People and Resources

The Cook County Department of Public Health takes a network approach to
protecting and promoting health and preventing illness, disability and premature
death. works with a variety of local, state and federal partners in the public
health infrastructure to ensure the safety of our diverse population 2.2 million A
suburban Chicago residents, and tens of thousands of travelers, who move in and out

of Cook County everyday via expressways, airports and public transportation.

We are one of the few sources with information about the priority health issues
and needs in each community This helps our agency, partners, and the public plan
for and address emerging health threats, and to promote healthy lifestyles through

awareness, education, programs and community development.

We strive to bring people and resources together. To help address issues facing our
communities, we have established a growing network of partners, including:
21 area hospitals, ?rst responders, schools, businesses, community? and faith?based

organizations and elected officials.

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007 2

19

Integrated Health Support Services Hzg/alzg/ars and Statistics

 

Breast and Cervical Cancer Program The CCD PH Breast and Cervical Cancer Program

Breast cancer is the most co on cancer in women provides clinical breast exams, mammography screenelvic exams and a tests for eli ible uninsured
However, if 1t 18 detected Willie still in its earlier stages, 

. suburban Cook Coun women. Women 3 cars and
breast cancer can be successfully treated. Routme ty 5 

older are eligible for pap tests. Women age 40 and over
mammograms and breast exams can detect cancer early

. . . are eligible for both cervical and breast cancer screenings.
and provrde women With better treatment options
and results. In 2007, Governor Blagojevich signed into

law the expansion of the Illinois Breast and Cervical

Clients also receive case management services to provide
education, referral, and follow?up. Women diagnosed
with breast and/ or cervical cancers receive assistance with

Cancer Program, allowing uninsured women regardless . . .
expedlted enrollment in Medicaid through the 

of income, to become eligible for the program. a .
Breast and Cerv1cal Cancer Treatment Act. Women may

In suburban Cook County, is a proud partner contact the state health line at 1-888?522-1282, or con-

and lead agency for the Illinois Breast and Cervical tact at 708450-5300 for more information.
Cancer Program. Through this collaboraton, women

need only go as far as their phones to ?nd early detec?
tion screening services throughout the region. Provider
partners include: Ingalls Memorial Hospital, Loyola
University Medical Center, and Rush Medical Center,
Access to Care, Aunt Martha?s, PCC Weilness, and the
COok County Health and Hospitals System.

inogng Amurasog 

 

3 Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health 

20

case management, nursing, clinical services

 

Family Case Management/DCFS Medical Case Client Clinic Visits (yearly)

Management Program caseload) Dental Health . 5 889

Family Planning 9,130
Targeted Intensive Prenatal Case Management 131 HIV Screening 17932

Family Case Management 16,535

Delay of Subsequent Pregnancy 26 Immunizations 4,233

Health Works A 922: Prenatal Intake 3,363

Healthy Families 68 Primary Care (Access to Care) 2,449

Breast and Cervical Cancer Prevention 107 Sexually Transmitted Diseases 8,157

Services (yearly)

Daycare Consultations 142
Vision Screenings 6,993
Hearing Screenings 7,297

Women, Infants and Children (WIC)
Caseload 24,846
Yearly Client Clinic Visits 97570

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007 4

21

Environmental Health Services Unit g/ylzg/ars

 

22

 

 

On December 2007 the Cook County Board of Com?
issioners passed the Swimming Facilities Ordinance,
providing for the collection of fees to support the
Swimming Pool Inspection Program and also
for the certi?cation of pool operators by May I, 2009.

About 108 recalls were distributed to all municipalities.
Inspections were performed to check on some products.
Examples include: counterfeit toothpaste from China,
lead?contaminated products not intended for food con?
sumption, beef recall for possible E. Coli contamination,

and pot pies associated with salmonella.

Environmental Health Unit staff sent information to
municipalities about boil orders, ?ooding, and power
outages. Inspectors visited the affected towns of I
Bellwood, Forest Park, Hometown, Lincolnwood,
Maywood, Northlake and South Barrington.

Staff participated with the U.S. Food and Drug Adminis-
tration in an investigation of an allegedly illegal raw milk

distribution operation in suburban Cook County.

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007

inspects, monitors, regulates educates, advises

Staff participated in the taping of a show on asthma in the
that aired on the local cable station in Harvey.

Lead inspectors conducted a lead-safe work practices train?
ing for local municipalities and contractors at Brook?eld
Zoo, participated in National Lead Poisoning Preven?
tion week activities, and were presenters at local regional

health council meetings.

Indoor Air Quality investigations were conducted in homes
and schools throughout suburban Cook County for

mold, carbon monoxide, mercury spills and more.

Staff investigated complaints involving numerous homes
with unsanitary conditions, such as excessive garbage
accumulation and/ or insect/ rodent activity that could

cause a public health nuisance in the surrounding area.

23

Environmental Health Services Unit Statistics

 

Private and Non-Community Water Supplies Septic Tank Cleaners
Water Samples Collected Permits Issued . 76

Non?community A 580 Truck Inspections Performed 87-
Private 53

Abandoned Wells
Sealing Requests Received 310

Well/ Septic System Mortgage Evaluations
Evaluations Processed 4

Inspections Performed 9

A Wells Sealed 209 Water Samples Collected 42
New Wells 

Inspections Performed A 150
Permits Issued 125
Existing Non?Community Wells

Food Service Establishments] Retail Food Stores
Intergovernmental Agreements
Inspections Performed 4,478
Plans Reviewed 1 15

Per for med 139 Unincorporated Areas

Water Analysis Opinions Rendered . 1,113 Inspections Performed 588

Private Sewage Disposal Systems Licenses Issued 167
Installation Inspections Performed 70 Plans Reviewed 23
Lot Surveys Performed 58 Food Complaints Received 410
Plans Processed 73

Healthy Homes
Witnessed Percolation Tests Performed 4

Inspections Performed 1

Icon

Presentations

7 Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

24

 

Lead Abatement
Initial Inspections
Compliance Letters Initiated
Follow?Up Inspections

Clearance Inspections

Mobile Home Parks
Inspections Performed
Licenses Issued

1 Tobacco Control
Licenses Issued
Licenses Suspended (30 Days)
Fines
Compliance Inspections
Notices of Violations Issued

Smoke-Free Illinois
Letters
Complaints

Indoor Air Quality

Inspections Performed
Letters Initiated

113
Nuisance Complaints
Compiaints Received

Inspections and Enforcement Actions

Swimming Pools and Spas
Public Pool Inspections, Performed
Private Pool/ Spa Plans Approved

Tanning Facilities

Inspections Performed

Vector Control
Inspections Performed
Mosquito Trap Checks
Mosquito VEC Tests Performed
Dead Birds Collected for Testing
Mosquito Batches Processed for PCR Testing
Specimen Results Reported and Posted

Client Consultations

Total Client Consultations Performed

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007

 

191
330

1,075
33

246

303
720
557
100
567
857

9,180

25

Communicable Disease Control Unit and Statistics

 

Unit Mission Obiec?ves
The mission of the Communicable Disease Control Unit . Provide timely epidemiologic data and analyses to

is to prevent and control the spread of infectious diseases support outbreak investigation, case/ contact manage

within suburban Cook County. This responsibility is

merit and policies and prevention strategies.

achieved through collaboration with those involved Develop, maintain and enhance communicable
identi?cation, diagnosm, treatment and legal, ethical and . . 

disease surveillance systems.
soqal management of communicable diseases.

Proactively communicate with the public about

Programs communicable-diseases and public health.

General Communi?ablc Diseases Develop public policies and strategies related to

Vaccine Preventable Diseases the prevention, control and management of comin?

unicable diseases.

HIV Surveillance and Prevention
0 Work closely with the Illinois Department of Public

Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Health and other local heaith departments to prevent

Enhanced Surveillance . . .
and control infectious diseases.

Tuberculosis Surveillance and Prevention . . . . . . .
0 Prowde leadership in the creation, reView and reViSion

of legislation and response protocols which describe
the requirements for reporting and management of

communicable diseases.

9 Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

26

 

works to prevent the spread of communicable diseases

 

 

   

Vaccine 
- Diphtheria

.

Hepatitis 
Acute
Chronic

Measles-

Mumps 

=-Pertussis (Whoa

Rubella 

 

 

"g?c?ughi 

Tetanus .2, .13..
Vaticelia (Chicken Pox)

  

13 C011 01573117

Giardiasis

?3Haemophilus gin?uenzae (not B)
Hepatitis A

A Hepatitis 

Acute
Chionic 
Histoplasmosis
Legiotmzuresa Disease

Listeria

Mableoem

 

 

   
  

Malana
_Memngococcai Infections
Meningitis Listeria

    

39
510

SttePtococcal Invasive (Group 
Typhoid FeVet 

289 Tuberculosis Disease

Active

Latent

 
 

ually Diseases -:
94 SyPhilis
21. .Gotiotrhea
3S Chlamydia .
.3 
0 AIDS preliminary)
L143 Other
10
1?4
7

Food Borne Illness Complaints Received
Pediattic In?uenza Deaths

 

139
947

 

322

 

 

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007

10

27

Communicable Disease Control Unit 

 

Tuberculosis

In July 2007, the Suburban Cook County Tuberculosis
Sanitarium District was incorporated into the Cook County
Department of Public Health bringing with it a dedicated
staffof doctors, epidemiologists, nurses, and support staff.
Tuberculosis (TB) prevention and control services continue
to be provided to any of the 2.3 million suburban Cook

County residents who need them; including those living in

Evanston, Skokie, Oak Park and Stickney Township.

Below are some selected summary statistics recorded by the
Des Plaines, Forest Park and Harvey TB clinics in 2007:

Over 65,000 clinic Visits

22,800 tuberculin skin tests administered

139 active TB cases diagnosed and treated

947 new latent cases of TB diagnosed and treated

Of the 139 active TB, cases identi?ed, 107 were
foreign?born. As the TB epidemic has been brought under

I I Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

better control among persons born in the US, a growing

percentage of cases in Illinois are reported among non?US.

?born persons.

To avert the potential resurgence of a TB outbreak in this
community, the TB program staff remain dedicat?
ed and committed to the prevention, treatment and surveil?

lance of this ancient and deadly disease. Activities include:

Directly observed therapy (DOT) for all active TB cases
Investigating contacts of each case of active TB disease

Screening of high?risk individuals for latent TB infection
Prompt initiation of treatment for latent TB to prevent

progression to active TB disease.

28

 

Enhanced Surveillance

has been utilizing the Electronic Surveillance
System for the Early Noti?cation of Community?Based
Epidemics (ESSENCE) as a surveillance system
since January 2005. Hospitals participating in ESSENCE
are required to collect chief complaint data from their
emergency departments and to transmit these data on a daily
basis to Twenty suburban Cook County hospi?
tals are enrolled in ESSENCE. The communicable disease
program utilizes ESSENCE to monitor ?u?like?illness and
provide situational awareness of Outbreaks and seasonal dis?

eases in the community.

ESSENCE detected a signi?cant increase in rash presenta?
tions during an unexpected itch mite outbreak in August
2007. ESSENCE helped assess the number of individuals
affected and the duration of the presence of the itch mite
(see Figure 1). The increase in rash illness noted was consis?
tent with reports from the community of an itchy skin rash,
later determined to be caused by the bite of an itch mite,

Pyemates ber?i (see Figure 2).

 

Daily Data Counts 2007 Itch Mite Outbreak

wu?
8f03/2007 9/1112007

 

HH

?rudu:rn



"gummnu?gmm



 


a
a a
s? 
a 

7-: wow
w?n?w
404m!
- 90911!
(ohm
rah-no
ulnl'ul
Inna
an In

Figure I. Time-series graph: Daily case-counts of ?rash or itch" from
ESSENCE-reporting hospitals July 9 thru Oct. 3, showing the prolonged
increase in rash presentation From Aug. 3 thru Sept. ll_.

Figure 2. Rash caused
by the bite of an itch

1 mite, Emmott: lamj'ii.

Cook County Department of Public Health Anmmi Report 2007 12

29

Community Preparedness and Coordination Unit 'g/le'g/m

?My? thaw

3W3

 

3O

improves preparedness and response planning for public health emergencies and disasters

 

CPCU launched the ?Be Aware, Get Prepared,? Campaign The Mass Humanitarian Care Work Group was created to
to help the public achieve a basic level of preparedness address mass care challenges that could arise during a
for public health emergencies. PACE buses carried ads pandemic. For example, there may be a greater need for
and 400,000 booklets were disseminated to Pioneer mental health services, food and supplies for people
Press, Daily Southtown, Lawndale News, N?Digo, Daily who are home-bound. The group consists of representa?
Herald and Chicago Defender subscribers. tives from federal, county, and local governments;
community?based organizations; faith?based institutions

I

and private industry.

CPCU organized three presentations on quarantine and
isolation (Q 8C 1) for ?re and police chiefs to:

strengthen relationships with local ?re

and police departments.

 

CPCU coordinated two regional exercises in April. The

0 promote a common understanding of each agency?s

?rst was ,a dzscussmn~based eerCise to examine isolation responsibilities when issues 1 orders.
protocols and procedures. The second was a full?scale . . . . . .

. initiate dialogue to begin improvmg coordination in
exercme that engaged over 500 partiCipants from Cook . . ..
responding to a pOSSible pandemic event.

County government, municipalities and ?re protection
districts to evaluate components of the Cook County

Pharmaceutical Stockpile Distribution Plan.

I Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007 14 

31

Health Promotion Unit Hz'glalzg/yts

 

Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program

In response to ?ndings from the National Campaign to Pre?
vent Teen Pregnancy (indicating half of all Latinas get preg?
nant at least once by age 20), the Teen Pregnancy Prevention
Program and Parent Workshop at Morton East High
School in Cicero continued for the third year With funding
from the Illinois Department of Human Services.

Highlights included:

Six 8?week sessions of Making Proud Choices, a health
education curriculum that educated over 300 students
on topics such HIV and sexually transmitted disease

awareness, and the consequences of teenage pregnancy.

Parent presentations entitled Sharing Your Sexual Values
wit/9 Your Ren and E?e?rtz've Communication wit/9 Your
C/ailel. Studies show that teens are most influenced
by their parents, but often, communication breaks down
between the generations on sensitive topics such as

sex and relationships.

15 Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

HelpingAreas with High Rates of Children with Asthma

received $760,259 from the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to determine
what conditions may exist that could be endangering the
health of the children residing in homes in Harvey, Rob?
bins and Rivetdale; areas identi?ed as having high rates of
children with asthma. 350 homes] units will receive one of
three levels of intervention, up to and including intensive
remediation to eliminate those conditions in the home that

contribute to illness or injury. This three?year grant ends in
October 2009.
In 2007, the unit:

Received 128 patient referrals

Completed 49 in?home assessments/ interventions

Provided outreach and education to 709 individuals

Trained 77 individuals in Healthy Homes basics and
Asthma 101.

32

Tobacco Prevention Unit

 

The Tobacco Prevention Unit facilitated several tobacco
prevention and education presentations at schools,
churches, hospitals and other medical facilities, as well as
at community?based agencies and health fairs.

Tobacco Prevention staff distributed information packets
about Quitline and Quitnet throughout suburban Cook
County. Quitline is the toll-free smoking cessation
service offered by the Illinois Department of Public
Health. Quitnet is an online smoking cessation service
offered by and free to residents. Quitnet served
8,196 visitors and reached 91,116 interested parties.

Local radio personalities helped spread the word
about the dangers of youth tobacco use during six live
remote radio shows. One of the broadcasts originated at
the popular B96 Summer Bash in Bridgeview.

Tobacco Prevention staff helped facilitate two meetings to
educate municipalities and local businesses on Smoke?

Free the new law that prohibits smoking

promotes healthier lifestyles

throughout the state. partnered with the Amer?

ican Cancer Society, American Lung Association and
American Hospital Association to provide information

and answer questions about the new law.

Tobacco Prevention staff facilitated eight Freedom from .
Smoking classes to a total of 72 participants. Freedom
from Smoking, an 8?week class, was developed by the

American Lung Association to help people quit smoking.

                         


3" 3% 

Xma-





{Eli/{[\if a;
mammar- was

\i i


5i} 9

  

    

   

  

     

 

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007

I6

33

Health Promotion Unit Continued

 

*3

of Prostate Cancer

?o occur.
may mav include?

Dif?mlr Ian

Reduci'd knee of n1 urine



Unr mm-
Unnaurrg more 9mm

u-?xnalie

the nuts 8: bolts of prostate cancer
who Is at risk and how to screen for it

who '5 at risk (ha FSA Ham: mm

. over the 09:: of 59 years 03
- ova! that one 40 vow-a AND:

screening

9w inronnmiar a at

aakcounzvpublicheanh.
7'35 ?$92 2033

   

maintenance
g??u??mmw 3% ewe
me: your pans? makes {cw a check-cg

rel i6: 0 am. be: pmam?ami

 

received the 2007 Gold Awardfor Excellence in
Public Health Communication (In?House Brochures) ?om t/oe
National Public Health In?rmutz'on Coalition for design oft/1e
AutoBooly Maintenance for Men brochure.

 

17 Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

34

Prostate Cancer Awareness

 

AutoBody Maintenancefor Men Campaign

Utilizing grant dollars from the Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH), once again rolled out the
Autobody Maintenance for Men campaign to increase
prostate cancer awareness among minority men. For the
fourth year, the Autobody campaign encouraged men to take
care of themselves like they take care of their cars by getting
annual check?ups.

The 2007 campaign consisted of media buys, outreach and
education along with PSA screenings. The media component
included several newspaper ads, highway billboard displays
and a 30?second public service announcement by Cook
County Board President Todd H. Stroger. In addition to the
grants requirements, provided PSA blood tests to
162 men.

Totals
Community Outreach 1,340
PSA Screening 162

Violence Prevention

Father?s Action Network

The Fathers Action Network is a fatherhood responsibil?

ity program that encourages and increases positive parental
participation and family unity through support activities and
educational workshops. staff worked with Guild-
haus, a residential long?term substance abuse recovery home
and treatment center in Blue Island, to provide 
seminars on domestic violence, anger management, par?
enting, relationship building, child support, nutrition and
clinic information/services. 130 participants

staff also worked with SAFER Foundation/

Crossroads Adult Transition Center, an Illinois Department
of Corrections organization that helps formerly incarcerated
individuals help themselves stay out of prison, turn their
lives around and re?enter their communities. Workshops
included: anger management, parenting, relationship build-
ing, child support, nutrition and clinic informa-
tion/services. 75 participants

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007 i 18

35

Lead Poisoning Prevention Services Unit Hzg/ylzg/ats and Statistics

 

Baby, the mast preventable environmental public lamb/2 As a result, has focused its resources on the
issue a??cting children sz'xyearr and under 2'5 leadpaisoning. following targeted strategies:

Despite this, lead Poisoning continues to hurt our Providing a grant program with ?nancial assistance to

communities. No level of lead is safe. It can cause behavior, COUCH lead hazards in residential dwellingS-

learning and growth problems. It does not discriminate 0 Raising awareness and educating parents and health?

based on race or economic status, but most lead poisoning care providers about the importance of blood lead

cases are reported in children who reside in older housing testing.

built before 1978 that are in poor urban and minority . Educating property owners and community?based

communities. The most likely sources of childhood lead . .
- organizations about the dangers of lead.

exposure are from deteriorating lead-based house paint, lead

dust from renovation and conraminated soil.

lig?revention Activities}; 

 

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Preven? Lead Ethical? 13' 
tion, approximately 4 percent of US. children under the age I ?Vii/Ofk'ihop5 Pi?iscmations
of6 have a blood lead level (BLL) of at least 10 mcg/dL. mid Qmmy?lq? Even?

In suburban Cook County, only 8.8 percent of the children

 

A A PreVenti?on Services}? 
Children: it I'ElfeVated Blood
.1: - Levels R?qui?ring Follow-Up

  

under the age of 6 were tested to assess their potential
i til (i 2'

exposure to lead based pain azar Lead?Based Paint Hazard Control Program
Homes Having Lead Hazards Cerrected

 

19 Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

36

 

 

 

lack am far

LEAD

ic- you! home

 

 

{dint} 
bop-"Mal 9! van: 



    

- Leo: is son-mm {we Mrres mi:
13243;: 1978.

 

 

   

(?wk Cams-g
Lam Pans-99 Fr?vemm i;

 

a =?ai-e asm'en for a had blood lest Mr:- ?x
in acorn ahcul?: Quinn; scam-unmask;
3 Women plemingm have a am 521 as: be. 'r '95? 

at 5.3m cram and as a: Micw
a ?am?wct do":

5 ?2:3 3:5er8 sine 93::

  

 

 

 

 

Far 22mm in?mmdou ar'fbr I: L'mx?paiyaubrg
(mining. plan's [hr 
lard Panning mertiap: (Fm't at 

 

protects children from lead poisoning

LPPU treated a twa-sided?yer to bang on door/mark The piece
provides educational information and betjo?zl' It}: (z?aut lead arid
resident; to contact CDPH to [mm more

 

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007 20

37

Public Policy, Planning, and Government Relations Unit 

 

Over 100 community providers
we PLAN attended two we I PLAN for
Action kickroff sessions to revisit and recommit to address-
ing the health needs of suburban residents identi?ed in the
we I PLAN 2005?2010 community health assessment.

we I PLAN is the systematic collection and analysis of
community data that allows to prioritize health
issues and propose intervention strategies for a community
health improvement plan. Three health priorities were iden-
ti?ed in the assessment process including: 

Reducing the disease and economic burden of
diabetes in suburban Cook County by preventing
and reducing obesity.

Reducing the personal, family and community
burden of violence by and against youth by increas-

ing prevention activities for youth and families.

improving access to primary care for residents 

reducing barriers to care.

21 Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

The Public Policy, Planning and Government Relations

. Unit played an integral role in the passage of the Illinois
Clean Indoor Air Act, which was signed into law July
23, 2007, making Illinois the 22nd state to prohibit
smoking in all public places. In addition, staff worked
collaboratively With a statewide coalition of voluntary
health agencies, local public health departments, physi-
cian groups, and others in support of SBSOO, which
prohibited smoking in all workplaces. This was a signi??
cant public health accomplishment which will result in
fewer cases of heart disease, stroke, lung cancer and other

respiratory ailments.

was authorized to enforce the Clean Indoor Air
Act within its jurisdiction. Information was placed on
the website, which included a downloadable smoking
complaint form for residents to submit via fax. Residents

could also submit complaints Via telephone by calling

the smoking hotline at 708?492?2127.

38

works with community partners and officials

 

    
      

All Early Childhood 

cXpo- prov1d1 gf?hcalth promotion 
screening scmc??s fogusmg on Healthy 
Breastfeeding, Socralvand Emotional Well 1' -
Parm? att??din?g the Cel??r #13 1?3u72g Child in mergiw??fe Oral Health ?Qv I I "850 Children andthelr am 
encouraged?to ?br?dst?ed the A the best start Informa- lies part1c1patedr-m 2007 
tion and advice was available 1 both [25/7 and Spanish: 

    

 

 

 

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007 22

39

Operating Budget

Fixed! Y?dr

2007 



Health
1c health system

?12 #96 State off?zfzzois

 

4O

 District Of?ces Stephen A. Martin, f7?; MPH O?cer

 

Administrative Offices
1010 Lake Street

Oak Park, IL 60301
708?492?2000
708-492?2002 TDD

North District Office

3rd District Courthouse

2121 Euclid Avenue, Room 250
Rolling Meadows, IL 60008
847-818?2860

847-818-2023 TDD

Southwest District Office

5th District Courthouse

10220 S. 76th Avenue, Room 250
Bridgeview, IL 60455 
708-974?6160

708?974?6043 TDD

South District Office For more in?rmatz'an, please visit our we?site
6th District Courthouse at 

16501 S. Kedzie Parkway
Markham, IL 60426
708410?4500
708?210?4010 TDD

Southeastern Health Center
52 162nd Street

South Holland, IL 60473
708?210-4500

708?210?40 1 0 TDD

West District Office
Eisenhower Tower

1701 S. First Avenue, Room 102
Maywood, IL 60153
7053?4505300

708?450?5302 TDD

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007 24

41

Cook County Department of Public Health

 

Stephen A. Martin, Jr, MPH
Chief Operating Officer

Executive Staff

Frank Barnes Michael Vernon, 
Assistant Operating Of?cer Director

Communicable Disease Control
Helen Haynes, JD, LLM

Special Counsel Sandra Martell, RN, MS
Director

Noreen Lonahan integrated Health Support Services

Director
Financial Control Torn Varchmin, MS, LEHP

Director
Linda Murray, MD

. Environmental Health Services
Medical Director

Christina Rs Welter, MPH
Deputy Director
Prevention Services

Sean McDermott
Director
Public Policy, Planning and Government Relations

25 Annual Report 2007 Cook County Department of Public Health

Cook County
Departmenl of Public Health

  

Todd H. Stu-agar
President

Cook County Board orCami-nissiancls
Coal: County Board of Health

 
 

2007- Annual Report Design Team
Writers/Editors Kitty Loewy and Sean McDermott
Writer/Graphic Designer Kimberley Conrad Junius, MFA

42

Cook County Bureau of Health Services A?lz'ates

 

Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook County

627 S. Wood Street
Chicago, IL 60612
3 1 2864-07} 9

Cermak Health Services of Cook County
2800 S. CoIifornia Avenue 
Chicago, 60608

773?890-9300

Cook County Department of Pubiic Health
1010 Lake Street

Oak Park, IL 60301

708492-2000

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
3901 W. Harrison Street

Chicago, IL 606I2

3 I 2-864-6000

Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County
15900 S. Cicero Avenue

Oak Forest, IL 60452

7 08687-7200

Provident Hospital of Cook County
500 E. 5151 Street

Chicago, IL 60608

3 I 2-572-2000

Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center of Cook County
2020 W. Harrison Street

Chicago, IL 6063 2

3 I 24572-4500

Cook County Board of Cormm'ssioners
Todd H. Stroger I President

M. Beavers
Jerry Butler

Forrest Conpooi
Earleon CoIIins

John P. DaIey
Elizabeth Ann Doody Gorman
Gregg Goinn
Roberto Maldonado
Joseph Mario Moreno
Joan Patricia Murphy
Anthony}. Peraica
Mike Quigtey
Timothy 0. Schneider
Peter N. Silvestri
Deborah Sims

Robert B. Steele

Lorry Suttredin

Cook County Department of Public Health Annual Report 2007

26

43

Alsip

Arlington Heights
Barrington
Barrington Hills
Barrington Township
Bartlett

Bedtord Park
Bellwood
Berkeley

Berwyn

Berwyn Township
Bloom Township
Blue Island
Bremen Township
Bridgeview
Broadview
Brooktield

Buttalo Grove
Burnham

Burr Ridge
Calumet City
Calumet Park
Calumet Township
Chicago Heights
Chicago Ridge
Cicero

Cicero Township
Country Club Hills

Crestwood

Deertield

Des Plaines
Dixmoor

Dolton

East Hazelcrest
Elgin

Elk Grove

Elk Grove Township
Elmwood Park
Evergreen Park
Flossmoor

Ford Heights
Forest Park
Franklin Park
Garden Homes
Glencoe
Glenview
Glenwood

Golt

Hanover Park
Hanover Township
Harvey

Harwood Heights
Hazelcrest
Hickory Hills
Hillside

Hinsdale
Hodgkins
Hottman Estates
Hometown

Homewood
Indian Head Park
lnverness

Justice
Kenilworth
LaGrange
LaGrange Park
Lansing

Lemont

Lemont Township
Leyden Township
Lincolnwood
Lynwood

Lyons

Lyons Township
Maine Township
Markham
Matteson
Maywood
McCook
Melrose Park
Merrionette Park
Midlothian
Morton Grove
Mt. Prospect
New Trier Township
Niles

Niles Township
Norridge


North Field
Northtield Township
Northlake

North Riverside

Riverside Township
Robbins

Rolling Meadows
Roselle

Norwood Park Township Rosemont

Oak Forest

Oak Lawn
Olympia Fields
Orland Hills
Orland Park
Orland Township
Palatine

Palatine Township
Palos Heights
Palos Hills

Palos Park

Palos Township
Park Forest

Park Ridge
Phoenix

Posen

Prospect Heights
Proviso Township
Rich Township
Richton Park
River Forest

River Forest Township

River Grove
Riverdale
Riverside

Sauk Village
Schaumburg
Schaumburg Township
Schiller Park

South Barrington
South Chicago Heights
South Holland
Steger

Stone Park
Streamwood
Summit

Thornton

Thornton Township
Tinley Park
Westchester
Western Springs
Wheeling
Wheeling Township
Willow Springs
Wilmette

Winnetka

Worth

Worth Township

 

44

45
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
December 5, 2008

ATTACHMENT #3

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System

 
 

Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report
2007

Cook County Department of Public Health
Protecting the Health and Environment of Suburban Cook County
Af?liate, Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Todd H. Stroger, Jr., President, Cook County Board of Commissioners

46

47

COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

Stephen A. Martin, Jr., M.P.H.
Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook County Department of Public Health

Demian Christiansen, M.P.H.
Tuberculosis Program Manager, Communicable Disease Control Unit

Catherine A. Counard, M. D., M. P. H.
Assistant Medical Director Communicable Disease Control Unit

Michael 0. Vernon, M.P.H.
Director, Communicable Disease Control Unit

Copyright Information
All materials contained in this report are in the public domain and may be used and re-
printed without special permission; citation as to source, however, is appreciated.

Suggested Citation 
Cook County Department of Public Health. Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2007.
Oak Park, Illinois 2008.

Communicable Disease Control Unit
Cook County Department of Public Health
Af?liate, Cook County Health and Hospitals System
1010 Lake Street, Suite 300
Oak Park, IL 60301

 

CONTENTS
4
IMPORTANT TRENDS 6
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1. Tuberculosis Cases and Percentages by Selected Characteristics,

Suburban Cook County, 1998-2007 8

- Table 2. Foreign-born Tuberculosis Cases by Top Countries of Birth,
Suburban Cook County, 1998-2007 - 10

Table 3. Number and Proportion of TB Cases Tested for HIV and
Number and Proportion Coinfected with TB and HIV,

Suburban Cook County, 2000-2007 11
Table 4. Tuberculosis Cases and Rates (per 100,000 population) by Municipality

for North and West Districts, Suburban Cook County, 2005-2007 13
Table 5. Tuberculosis Cases and Rates (per 100,000 population) by Municipality

for the South and Southwest Districts, Suburban Cook County, 2005-2007 14
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1. Tuberculosis Cases by Selected Public Health Jurisdictions, 1998-2007 7

Figure 2. Trends in Tuberculosis Cases by Place of Birth, -
Suburban Cook County, 1998-2007 9

Figure 3. Percentage of Tuberculosis Cases by Place of Birth and Race/ Ethnicity,
Suburban Cook County, 2007 10

Figure 4. Tuberculosis Cases, Rates per 100,000 Population by Municipality,
Suburban Cook County, 2007 . 12



48

49

 

OVERVIEW

Suburban Cook County Tuberculosis Case Numbers are Increasing

The most striking trend in Cook County tuberculosis (TB) surveillance data is that? the number of new TB cases, or
persons with active TB disease, a potentially fatal illness, has increased steadily over the past three years, with a 20%
increase injust one year?from 2006 to 2007. This recent increase followed 6 years of declining numbers of TB
cases and is unique to suburban Cook County; both the City of Chicago and the state of Illinois have noted decreas-
ing numbers of TB cases over the same period.

Cook County Department of Public Health TB Control Activities, 2007

If untreated, a person with TB may infect as many as 10-15 others each year. In order to prevent transmission of TB,
the CC DPH TB Control and Prevention Program maintains constant vigilance to rapidly identify TB cases, to ensure
that cases receive appropriate therapy, and to screen contacts of TB cases to determine if they have been infected. To
prevent and control TB'in 2007, staff conducted the following activities:

0 Created an electronic database to monitor the treatment ofevery active TB case, and track all close contacts to

ensure they that were screened for infection.

0 Administered 22,844 skin tests (PPD) to screen high risk individuals at the three TB clinics located in
Des Plaines, Forest Park and Harvey. As a result, 947 persons were identi?ed as having latent TB infection
below) requiring treatment.

- Conducted 13 worksite and/or school skin testing programs to screen l,319 close contacts of active TB cases for
infection.

0 Provided direct care for 120 new, active TB cases through the clinics, including Directly Observed
Therapy (DOT?see below). .

- Distributed an informational newsletter to all sub urban acute care hospitals.

0 Gave 17 presentations and educational programs to diverse audiences:

Nursing Home in-services (6) -

CEDA Head Start Health Advisory Committee (1)

Family Health Center (1) 

Cook County Public Defenders 1)

South Suburban Nurses Coalition (2)

Northwest Municipal Nurses Coalition (1)

Latino Health Conference (1)

Regional Municipal Police and Fire Chief Meetings (3)

Chicago Bar Association (1)

000000000

Tuberculosis Facts

Tuberculosis is an infection caused by the organism Mycobacterium tuberculosis. which spreads from person to
person when a contagious individual sneezes, coughs, or speaks. Persons with pulmonary or laryngeal TB can infect
others. TB bacilli form tiny particles (droplet nuclei) that can become suspended in air, sometimes for long periods,
and cause infection when they are inhaled by others. Close contacts of TB cases, such as household members or oth-
ers who spend considerable time together, can become infected.

Most infected persons have latent TB infection (LTBI) with no and are not infectious to others; the condi-
tion is found through a positive screening test (skin test or blood test). It is crucial, however, that persons with LTBI
receive treatment, because without treatment about 10% will eventually develop active TB. Persons With LTBI and

immunocompromising conditions progress to active TB much more rapidly, and are more likely to have serious out-
comes. For example, HIV-infected persons develop active TB 50 times faster than individuals without HIV. Without
proper treatment, up to 90% of HIV-positive persons with TB will die within months of TB infection. Consequently,
identifying persons with HIV and TB coinfection is critical.

Active TB can be difficult to diagnose and treatment requires months of therapy Although TB most commonly' 1n- 
volves the lungs, it can infect any organ of the body. Active TB generally causes signi?cant including

50

 

night sweats, unexplained weight loss, fever, and 'chills. Without treatment, an estimated 60?70% of persons with
active TB would die of this curable disease within a few years'. -

Persons diagnosed with active TB are required to limit contact with others until they are no longer infectious, and
to follow an intensive, four-drug antibiotic regimen lasting at least 6 months. it is necessary for patients with active
TB to adhere strictly to the prescribed treatment regimen to prevent the develo pment of drug?resistant strains of
TB. If a person develops drug-resistant TB, therapy can take 18 months or longer, and drug regimens often require
the use of more toxic antibiotics to treat TB effectively.

To ensure successful completion of the treatment regimen, and to minimize the prospect of drug-resistant TB, ?eld
staff from the TB Control and Prevention Program watch persons 'with active TB take every dose of
medication. This. process is called directly observed therapy (DOT) and is a cornerstone of modern TB control and
prevention. DOT is labor and resource intensive?~and a highly effective approach to curing TB. Largely as a result
of using DOT, 99% of suburban Cook County TB cases successfully completed treatment over the past 10 years
and were cured. .

Tuberculosis, a Global Challenge With Local Consequences

Through aggressive TB case identi?cation, effective treatment, and contact tracing efforts, transmission of TB
within suburban Cook County has been largely controlled, mirroring national trends. But the control of TB
requires a sustained commitment to screening and treatment of LTBI. The majority of TB cases in 2007
were in persons born outside ofthe United States in the many areas ofthe world where TB is common. These
individuals, like most persons infected with TB, likely had LTBI which became active after they immigrated to the
United States.

The World Health Organization estimates that one-third ofthe world?s population, some 2 billion persons,
currently have LTBI. Among this group, more than 9 million will develop active TB disease each year, and nearly
2 million, or 4,500 people per day, will die. The speed with which individuals can traverse the globe, together with
dynamic immigration patterns to suburban Cook County, means that persons at risk of having are likely to
reside within jurisdiction. Screening programs targeting these high risk populations identijj/ persons with
LTBI, a condition which can be treated before itprogresses to active TB disease.

During 2008, in addition to responding to identified cases of active TB, the CCD PI-I TB Control and Prevention
Program is utilizing surveillance data to assist healthcare providers, schools, and other key partners, with ensuring
that those most at risk of LTB1 are screened. This critical step, as part of a strong, sustained private and public
effort, will prevent the development of active TB disease and greatly reduce the risk of potential transmission
within the community. 

'Borgdorff Martien W., Floyd Katherine, Broekmans Jaap F.. Interventions to reduce tuberculosis mortality and transmission in low- and mid-
dle-income countries. Bull World Health Organ [serial on the Internet]. 2002 [cited 2008 July l] 80(3): 2 7?227. Avaiiable from: http://


51

 

IMPORTANT TRENDS, 2007

TB Case Rates
In 2007, 139 newly active cases of tuberculosis (TB) were identified in suburban Cook County. This represents an

increase of 20% over the number of cases reported in 2006 (n=116). The rate of active TB disease in sub urban
Cook County in 2007 was 5.7 per 100,000 population, compared to 8.9 per 100,000 population in the City of
Chicago and 4.1 per 100,000 in the State of Illinois.

Place of Birth

Since 2000, the majority of TB cases in suburban Cook County occurred in persons born outside of the United
States, in areas where TB is common. In 2007, 107 of all TB cases were foreign-born. Countries ranking
highest on the list ofpersons with TB in 2007 include India (n=3 0), the Philippines (n=21) and Mexico 

Race/Ethnicity
Since 1998, the proportion ofTB cases who were Asian/Paci?c Islanders has increased by 79%. These individuals

now represent almost half of all TB cases, and 94% of these cases were foreign-born. Approximately 21% of TB
cases were Hispanic, a trend that has been stable since 2003. Similar to the observation for Asians/Paci?c Island-
ers, 93% of TB cases in Hispanics occurred in those who were foreign-born.

Age .
Eighty-seven (63 of TB cases in 2007 were 45 years and older; 30 were 65 years and older.

TB and Coinfection
The proportion of TB cases tested for HIV increased from 25% to 78% between 2000 and 2007; Seven of

the TB cases tested in 2007 were HIV positive .

Multidrug-Resistant and Extensively Drug?Resistant Tuberculosis"
Since 1998, suburban Cook County has averaged 1-2 MDR-TB cases per year. No case of has ever been
reported in suburban Cook County.

Treatment
From l998?2007, 99% of TB cases in suburban Cook County completed an appropriate course of therapy.

Site of Disease
Eighty?six of all TB cases reported were pulmonary cases, and 53 had extrapulmonary involvement,
a trend that has remained stable since 1998. .

Number of TB Cases and Case Rates by Municipality, 2005-2007

A total of 75 TB cases lived in the North District during 2007. The North District represents approximately
44% of the general population of suburban Cook County, indicating a larger than expected number of TB
cases. From the North District, Skokie and Des Plaines each reported 1 1 cases of TB. These were the two munici-
palities with the largest number of cases reported in 2007.

*Multidrug~resistant TB (MDR-TB) is de?ned as TB resistant at least to isoniazid (INH) and rifampin (RIF). MDR TB treatment requires the
use of second?line drugs that are less effective, more toxic, and costlier than ?rst-line regimens. Extensively drug resistant TB (XDR-TB) is
de?ned as resistance to INH, RIF, at least one ?uoroquinolone and at least one of the injectable drugs amakacin, kanamycin, or capreomy-
cin).

 

 

l1? igure 2 1 . SelectedfPub?iic Health 'J'u'risdi?tidhs, '1 9982007

900 0 . 7 Suburban Cook County TB Cases

300 No Illinois TB Cases



- Chicago TB Cases

600 vavCases

300 -

 

200 

I 
1998 1999'

 

 

 

2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Year

I

2000 2001

 

 

'Figure 1. In suburban Cook County, tuberculosis (TB) cases declined steadily from a high of 150 cases in 1998 to
122 cases in 2003. There was a 25% decrease in reported cases in 2004 (n=9l) from 2003, followed by increasing
numbers of TB cases reported from 2004-2007.

Reported TB cases have increased 53% from 2004 (n=9l) to 2007 (n=l39). Between 2006 and 2007, TB cases
increased 20%, from 1 16 cases in 2006 to 139 cases in 2007.

In the City of Chicago, and in Illinois overall, the trend in reported TB cases has been downward over the past 10
years. In Illinois, reported TB cases have declined 38%, from 842 in 1998 to 52] in 2007. In Chicago, reported TB
cases declined 45%, from 469 in 1998 to 269 in 2007. In suburban Cook County, however, there has only been a
7% decrease over the same period, from 150 in 1998 to [39 in 2007.

52

Table 1 Tuberculosis {3559's and Percentages by Selected Characteristics,
Suburban Cook Co ?2y, 1998?2007 

 

 

Characteristic 1993 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2005 2007
NoNo. 
Sex
Male Female Race/Ethnicity
WhilemotHiSPanic BlackmotHiSPanic Hispanic Unknown Report

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Under5-15?25-45-Total 150100 140100 141 100 139100 130100 122100 91 100 120 100 116100 139100

 

 

 

 

Tablel. Sex: In 2007 males accounted for 73 of'all TB cases, a proportion that has been consistent over the
past decade. Age: In 2007,7120 of all TB cases were 25 years or older. Persons aged 45-64 years accounted
for the largest proportion of active TB cases, 57 Race/Ethnicity: Since 1998, the proportion of TB cases in
Asian/Paci?c Islanders increased 79%. These individuals now represent almost half of all TB cases. Approxi?
mately 21% of TB cases were Hispanic, a proportion that has been stable since 2003.

 

 

Figure 2. Tuberculosis Cases-by" Place Cook 00:00.00 1993f2007 I

100%
90%
80% 
70%
60% 
50%
40%

Proportion
$3593 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
Year

 

Foreign?Born U.S.?Born we Unknown wemNo. Foreign-Born TB Cases

 

 

Figure 2. Since 2000, the number of foreign-born TB cases increased 49%, from 72 in 2000 to 107 in 2007. Con?
versely, U.S.-born cases decreased 54%, from 69 in 2000 to 32 in 2007. Currently, 107 of all cases reported
in suburban Cook County are foreign-born. Similar increases have been reported in Chicago (51% foreign?born,
2007)', Illinois (69% foreign?born, 2006?, and the US. (57% foreign born, 2006f.

Eaglin M. World TB Day Presentation, Malcolm College, Chicago IL: March 26, 2008

2 Illinois Department of Public Health. Annual Tuberculosis Report Illinois, 2006. Spring?eld, IL: 2007

3 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Reported Tuberculosis in the United States, 2006. Atlanta, US. Department of Health and
Human Services, CDC: September, 2007.

54

7 ?gure 3.- Percentage 01 Tuberculosis Cases by Place of Birth and RecelEthnicity,
Suburban Cook County; 2067

 

   

    
 

White. not-Hispanic Asia n/paci?c
12% Islander
12%
Black, not Hispanic Hispanic
3% 5%
White. not?HisPanic
I 41%
Hispanic
25%
Black, not Hispanic
41%
Asianl? Pacific Islander
60%
Foreign-born (n=107) U.S.-born (n=32)

 

 

 

Figure 3. Of the 139 cases of TB reported to Cook County Department of Public Health, 107 ere foreign-
born and 32 were U.S.?born. Foreign-born: Among the foreign-born, 64 were 
ers and 27 were Hispanic. Overall, 94% of Asian/Paci?c Islanders with active TB were foreign-bom, as
were 93% of Hispanic TB cases. Among all non-Hispanic blacks with active TB, 3 were foreign-born;
among all non-Hispanic white TB cases, 13 were foreign?born. U.S.?born: Among the U.-S.-born TB cases,
13 were non-Hispanic black, 13 were non-Hispanic white, four were Asian/Paci?c Islanders
and two were Hispanic.

Table 2 Foreign born f?erculosis Cases by Top Countries of Birth" Table 2. Table 2 shows
- . foreign-born TB cases by

country oforigin for countries

 

1998 1999 .2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 in WhiCh at least 5 cases were
No. No. No. No. No. No, No. No. No. No. reported over the past 10
Nationality years. Other than an increase
India the number cases from
Philippines the Philippines, there has been
Mexico ?18 little change over the past
Korea, Republic decade.
Poland Pakistan 1 5
China Although in 2007, foreign-
Vietnam born cases came from more
Russia than two dozen countries, 69
Y?9?5'a??came from just three:
"1India the Philippines
Rename Nigeria (n=21) and MeXIco 
Thailand Bosnia and Helzegovina Guatemala Haiti Bun'Countries from which at least 5 TB cases were reported between 1998-2007

 

 

 

55

7 trTable3." Numberand Proportion of TB Cases Teeted for HEV ancf 
t: -I .Number and Proportion Coinfected with 3'8. and HIV, 
Soburban 000k County, 20004001 

 

 

Total
Tuberculosis -

Cases Tested for HIV Colnfected with HIV
Year No. No. No. 
2000 141 35 25 5 14
2001 139 32 23 7 22
2002 130 72 55 5 7
2003 122 89 73 7 8
2004 91 75 82 4 5
2005 120 94 78 6 6
2006 116 85 73 2 2
2007 139 108 78 7 6

 

 

 

Table 3. Between 2000 and 2007, the proportion of cases tested for HIV
increased from 25% in 2000 to 78% in 2007. Of those with TB and HIV test
results, 6% were coinfected in 20 O7.

56

 

Tuberculosis Cases Rates per 100 000 Population by Municip y,
Suburban Caqk County, 2907

 

 

   

 

r" 1' 
2887 T8 Rates per 188,008 pep.
0.0

5.2 .. 8.4 A

83.5-12.2
- 12.3 4. 329
Chicago

 

 

 

 

 

335 v 

Tabie 4 ?tuberculosm Cases and Rates (per-100,000 poletation) by Municipality for the North and
West Districts Suburban Cook County, 20052007 

 

 

 

 

NORTH WEST

2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007
CITY No. Rate' No. Rate" No. Rate? CITY No. Rate' No. Rate' No. Rate'
Arlington Heights 5 5.7 2 2-7 3 4 Bellwood 1 5?1 0 0 1 5?1
Barrington 0 0 0 0 0 0 Berkeley 0 0 0 0 0 0
Harrington Hills 0 0 0 0 0 Berwyn Bartlett 0 0 0 0 0 Bmadview 2 25.5 1 12.7 0 0
Buffalo Grove 1 2.3 0 0 0 0 Brook?eld 0 0 0 0 2 10.8
Des Plaines 10 17.7 2 3.5 11 19.5 Burr Ridge 0 0 0 0 0 0
Elgin 1 1 0 0 0 0 Cicero 8 9.7 7 8.5 6 7.2
Elk Grove \?llage 2 5-9 2 5-9 4 11Evanston 1 1.3 3 4 2 2.7 EIrmvoud Park 1 4.1 2 8.2 1 4.1
Glencoe 1 11.1 1 11.1 0 0 Forest Park 1 6.5 0 5 32.9
Glenvlew 1 2.2 3 6.5 4 8.7 Franklin park 1 5.4 3 15.2 1 5.4
G011 0 0 0 0 0 Harwood Heights 0 0 0 . 1 12.2
Hanover Park 0 0 0 0 1 2.7 Hillside 0 0 0 0 1 12.9
Hoffman Estates 2 3- 3 2 3-3 5 11-5 Hinsdale 0 0 0 0 0 0
lnvemess Hodgkins 0 0 0 0 0 0
Kenilworth 0 0 0 0 0 0 lndian Head Park 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lincoinwood 1 8 3 0 2 16.5 La Grange 0 .0 2 12.9 0 0
Morton Grove Grange Park 0 0 0 0 0 0
Mount Prospect 8 14.7 3 5.5 3 5.5 Lyons 1 9.6 1 9.6
Niles 0 0 2 6.8 5 17 Maywood 2 7.8 3 11.6 5 19.4
Nonidge 1 7.1 0 0 0 0 Mccook 0 0 1 411.5 0 0
1 18.1 2 36.3 0 0 Melrose Park 2 8.9 5 22.2 1 4.4
North?eld 1 8.8 0 0 0 0 North Riverside 0 0 0 0 0 0
Palatine 3 4.5 3 4.5 4 5.9 Northlake 2 31.3 1 15.7 3 47
Park Ridge 1 2.7 0 0 0 0 Oak Park 2 3.9 0 0 1 2
Prospect Heights 1 5-1 4 24-4 2 12-2 River Forest 0 0 0 0 0 0
Rolling Meadows 0 0 1 4.2 2 8-4 River Grove 1 8.9 0 0 0 0
Roselle 0 0 0 0 0 0 Riverside 0 0 0 0 1 11.8
Schaurrburg 7 9.6 2 2.7 7 9.6 Rosemant 0 0 0 0 0
Skokie 5 7.7 10 15.5 11 17 Schiller Park 2 17.2 1 8.6 1 8.6
South Banington 0 0 0 0 0 0 Stone Park 0 0 2 40.8 0
Strearmvood 3 8 2 5.4 2 5.4 Westchester 1 6.2 0 3 18.5
Wheeling 1 7.9 4 31.8 2 15.9 Springs 0 0
Wilmette 1 3.7 1 3.7 1 3.7
Winnetka 0 0 0 0 1 8
Total1 60 53 75 Total 29 32 38 

*Rates per100,000 population per year.

TTotal nurrber of cases in the speci?ed district. Percentage is the proportion of all TB cases in suburban Cook County in the speci?ed year.

 

 

Table 4. North District: A total of 75 cases 
were living in the North District in 2007. The North
District represents approximately 44% of the general
population of suburban Cook County, indicating a
larger than expected number of TB cases. From
the North District, eleven cases each were reported
from both Skokie and Des Plaines. These Were the two
municipalities with the largest number of cases re?
ported in 2007.

West District: Thirty-eight cases were reported
from the West District, which represents 26% of the
general population of suburban Cook County. Cicero
Forest Park and Maywood had the
largest number of reported TB cases in the West Dis-
trict.

13

58

Table 5 Tubercutosis Cases and Rates {per 100 000 popuiation) by Municipality for the South and

 

 

 

 

Southwest Districts, Suburban Cook Coo 2005 200-7
SOUTH SOUTHWEST

2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007
CITY No. Rate? No. Rate' No. Rate' CITY No. Rate' No. Rate' No. Rate'
Bumham 0 0 0 0 Alsip 0 0 2 10.5 2 10.5
Calumet City 2 5.3 2 5.3 2 5.3 Bedfom pay 0 0 0 0 0
Chicago Heights 1 3.2 1 3.2 1 3.2 Blue Island 1 4.4 1 4.4
Country Club Hills 1 6 0 0 2 12.1 Bridgeview 1 5-7 0 0 0 0
Dime. 0 1 26.2 Bumank 2 7.2 1 3.6
Dalton 3 12.2 4 16.3 0 0 Calumt Park 0 0 0 0
East Hazel Crest 0 0 0 0 0 0 Chicago Ridge 0 0 0 0 0 0
Ffossn?oor 1 108.9
Ford Heights 0 0 0 0 0 0 Evergreen Park 1 5 0 0 1 5
Glenwood 2 23.1 1 11.5 1 11.5 Forest View 0 0 0 0 0 0
Harvey 3 10.4 3 10.4 2 7 Hickory HiHazel Crest 0 0 0 0 9 0 Hometown 0 0 0 0 0 0
Homewood 1 5-3 1 5-3 0 0 Justice 0 0 0 0 0 0
Lansing 4 1413.2
Lynwood 0 0 0 0 0 0 Merlionette Park 0 0 0 0 0 0
Malkham 1 8.1 0? ?Oak Lawn 2 3.7 2 3.7
Matteson 1 6.4 2 12.8 0 0 Orland Hills 0 0 0 0 0
Midlothian 0 0 1 7.2 1 7.2 Ortand Park 2 3.6 3 5.4 1 1.8
Oak Forest 1 35 2 7-1 0 0 Palos Heights 0 0 0 0 0 0
Otyn?pie Flelds 0 0 0 0 0 0 Palos Hills 0 0 0 0 1 5.8
Pam Forest 0 0 0 0 0 0 Palos Park 0 0 0 0 1 21
Phoenix 0 0 0 0 0 0 Stickney 0 0 0 0 0 0
Posen 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sun-nit 0 0 0 0 0
Richton Park 0 0 0 0 2 15-4 Willow Spn'ngs 1 16-6 0 0 0 
Riverdaie 3 29.4 3 29.4 1 9.8 Worth 0 0 0 0 0 0
Robbins 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sauk \?liage 0 0 0 0 0 0
South
Chicago Heights 0 0 0 0 0 0
South Holland 1 4.6 0 0 0 0
Steger 0 0 0 0 0 0
Thornton 0 0 0 0 0 0
Tinley Park 0 0 1 1.7 0 
TotalT 25 (21 91.) 22 13 9 13 

 

?Rates per 100,000 population per year.
1Total nurrber of cases in the speci?ed district. Percentage is the proportion of all TB cases in subuman Cook County in the speci?ed year.

 

 

Table 5. South and Southwest Districts: Thirteen cases each of all TB cases) were reported from both the
South and Southwest Districts, which represent 19% and 14%, respectively, of the general population of suburban
Cook County. Calumet City, Country Club Hills, Harvey, and Richton Park' In the South each had 2 TB cases.
Alsip, Lemont, and Oak Lawn had two TB cases in the Southwest District. No municipality' In these districts had
more than 2 reported TB cases

59

