REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 13, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Luis Mu?oz, MD, MPH and Directors Benn Greenspan, MPH, FACHE
and Heather E. O?Donnell, JD, LLM (3)

Board Chairman Warren L. Batts (Ex-Of?cio)

Gerald Bauman, CPA (Non?Director Member)

Also Present: Director Jerry Butler; Pitt Calkin Interim Chief Financial Of?cer, Cook County
Bureau of Health Services; Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief,
Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Laura Burman Cook County
Auditor; Laura Lechowicz?Felicione Special Counsel to President Todd H. Stroger;
Tracy Guidry Senior Manager, Deloitte Touche; Patrick J. Hagan Lead Client
Partner, Deloitte Touche; John Morales Cook County Comptroller and Acting
Interim Chief Financial Of?cer?of Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Elizabeth Reidy -
Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Deborah Santana
Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board

Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met
pursuant to notice on Wednesday, August 13, 2008 at the hour of 8:00 at 1900 West Polk Street, in

the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, 'the
recommendations follow.

Roll Call

Deborah Santana, of the Officerof the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members and it was
determined that a quorum was present.

 

Presentation of Gerald Bauman CPA 

 

Appointment as a Non-Voting Member to the Audit Committee.

Chairman Mu?oz introduced Mr. Gerald Bauman, CPA, and welcomed him as a new member of the
Audit Committee. Chairman Mu?oz stated that Mr. Bauman was the ?nancial expert on former Cook
County Board President Bobbie Steele?s Health and Hospitals transition team.

 

REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 13, 2008
PAGE 2

Presentation by Deloitte Touche

Update and status report on the 2007 Audit of the County of Cook.

Chairman Mu?oz introduced Patrick J. Hagan, Lead Client Partner of Deloitte Touche. Mr. Hagan
introduced Tracy Guidry, Senior Manager on the County portion of the audit.

Mr. Hagan delivered a status overview of the audit process. The audit is proceeding as discussed at the
last Audit Committee meeting of July 17, 2008. In terms of progress, there are draft ?nancial statements
that have been prepared by the client and draft recommendations on internal control matters that have
been prepared by Deloitte Touche. These have been discussed preliminarily with the client. Under
Ms. Guidry?s guidance and leadership, there is the audit of the County?wide areas, such as Edwards
and the payroll system, upon which the Health System is dependent. Additionally, the single audit-testing
of the federal funds is progressing as well. These functions are progressing and are on schedule for the
expected report issuance date of August 31, 2008. Deloitte Touche will be prepared to discuss how to
accelerate the process for next year when the audit is completed.

Board Chairman Batts inquired whether, as part Of the audit report, Deloitte and Touche will discuss the
and weaknesses of the ?nancial control system.

Mr. Hagan replied that this is a required part of the auditor communications, so part of that will be in the
management letter of internal controls. Additionally, auditors are required to report material weaknesses,
signi?cant de?ciencies and other matters; the auditors will be available for any questions regarding the
control issues identi?ed. Additionaltraining and educational materials can be provided.

Director O?Donnell inquired whether the audit results include speci?c remarks if there have been
concerns about the lack of an internal auditing function.

Mr. Hagan replied in the af?rmative, and stated that last year?s audit indicated as such. The process for
doing that is the auditor?s management letter of recommendations. Deloitte Touche will prepare a
summary of recommendations in order to improve internal controls or operational ef?ciencies.

Director O?Donnell inquired whether it is ever impossible to do an audit because of a lack of internal
. controls.

Mr. Hagan replied that an internal audit function is not required but he considers it to be a good support of
the internal control system.

Director Greenspan inquired whether they should expect to see comments and suggestions on the business
integrity process (corporate compliance, the lack of a compliance of?cer 1n existing systems) 1n Deloitte
Touche? 3 letter concerning management practice.

Mr. Hagan replied that although there was no comment on this last year, if it concerns a potential
de?ciency or an opportunity for improvement, he will comment on it.

Chairman Mu?oz inquired when the report will be available.

Mr. Hagan replied he hoped to issue a written report by August 31, 2008.

 

REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
AUGUST 13, 2008
PAGE 3

Presentation by Pitt Calkin, Interim Chief Financial Officer

Discussion of the internal audit functions and process.

Chairman Mu?oz introduced Pitt Calkin, Interim Chief Financial Of?cer of the Bureau of Health
Services.

Mr. Calkin provided the members with information on internal audit functions and processes.
(Attachment 

Chairman Mu?oz stated that internal auditing is an important function and one that should be developed,
staffed internally, and have oversight of the System, particularly under best practices identi?ed in the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act.

Mr. Bauman inquired as to the size of the internal audit staff.

Mr. Calkin replied that there is no independent staf?ng for this function; the System currently uses
County Auditor staff.

Director O?Donnell asked how the System?s needs for internal audit staff would be determined and who
would evaluate these needs. She also asked whether there was a need for internal auditors within each

facility.

Mr. Calkin replied that David Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Bureau of Health Services,
had tasked him with setting up an audit group at the System level which would be responsible for all
seven business units. In proceeding with this task, he would look for input from the Audit Committee and
the Board as to the staff size. Currently, he is gathering information from associations around the
country. He envisions the staff to include certi?ed public accountants, as well as clinical and operational
staff. -

Director O?Donnell inquired whether the positions are currently budgeted.

Mr. Calkin replied 1n the negative; staf?ng for this function 15 expected to be included as part of the 2009
budget request.

Director O?Donnell inquired whether this will be an additional expense for 2009.

Mr. Calkin replied that it was most likely, but added that some open positions exist that can be'shifted for
this purpose.

 

REPORT-OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS 
AUGUST 13, 2008
PAGE 4

Development of Internal Audit Function

The Audit Committee is to address the development of an internal audit
function. This development shall also address the resources and staf?ng
required to develop and support the Audit process.

Chairman Mu?oz solicited the opinions of the members with regard to the development of the internal
audit function. He asked for their thoughts on the possibility of engaging an outside consulting ?rm to
develop an internal audit function.

Mr. Calkin replied that he would ?rst like to discuss the subject with Laura Bunnan, the Cook County
Auditor.

Chairman Mu?oz asked Ms. Burman to speak on the issue.

Ms. Burman stated that her of?ce could be utilized for internal audit functions. Her of?ce has the
structure in place and has requested ten additional staff for their budget for next year, in the event that the
System Board chooses to utilize their services. She stated that the System may wish to start a risk
assessment or a review of their needs; an audit plan could be developed based upon those needs.
Reporting would be directed to the System Board and the County Board.

Director Greenspan inquired what the quali?cations are for the director of an internal auditing
department.

Ms. Burman replied that the individual should be a certi?ed public accountant or certi?ed internal
auditor. Requirements are based on state statute; additionally, the County has passed an ordinance stating
functions relating to the Auditor?s of?ce.

Mr. Bauman suggested that he and Ms. Burman meet to discuss the scope and staf?ng needs; then a
statement could be drafted setting forth the process to set up the internal audit function.

Ms. Burman stated that she would be happy to meet with Mr. Bauman.

Board Chairman Batts stated that in his experience, when an internal auditing system is in place, the
ef?ciencies pay for the system.

Chairman Mu?oz stated that he believed the two goals of the Audit Committee are to be as accurate as it
can be in its accounting and as truthful as it can be to the community with regard to events and matters
that effect the organization.

 

Presentation by Cook County Comptroller John Morales

Cook County Government Financial Audit of 2007, Corporate Audit Status

Chairman Mu?oz introduced John Morales, Cook County Comptroller and Acting Interim Chief Financial
Of?cer of Stroger Hospital of Cook County.

REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE

I BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 13, 2008
PAGE 5

Mr. Morales stated that the Health System audit is moving along as originally planned. Right now release
of the Health System audit is on hold because it is rolled up into the overall combined annual ?nancial
report. He added that although there are some open items, he did not foresee any delays and believed that
it is on track to meet the August 31, 2008 date. I

Chairman Mu?oz asked Mr. Morales who receives and retains control over this document. Additionally,
he asked for information regarding the timeline.

Mr. Morales replied that Mr. Hagan will present the ?nal report to the Chief Financial Of?cer, Donna
Dunnings. The report is then submitted to the Cook County Board, for referral to their Audit Committee
and is subsequently received and ?led.

Chairman Mu?oz inquired how long this would take.

Mr. Morales stated that he could not provide a speci?c date, but that everything is happening in an orderly
matter.

Chairman Mu?oz inquired how long it took last year.

Mr. Hagan replied that last year they were two months later, and that this year?s process has been
accelerated. 

Patrick Driscoll, Deputy State?s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the
State?s Attorney, stated that he would have to check with County Board Audit and Finance Chairman
John Daley, because it would be released by that Board ?rst, and then once it was released it could be
turned over, almost simultaneously, to the System Board.

Chairman Mu?oz inquired the exact date that the document came out last year.

Mr. Hagan replied that the date was October 29, 2007; it was publicly distributed less than one month
after that.

Chairman Mu?oz stated that one month of delay would present enormous problems to the System Board.
He believed that the process should be expedited.

Board Chairman Batts inquired as to what legally prevents the report from being released, pending
adjustment.

Mr. Driscoll stated that there is no legal reason a report cannot be issued, the issue may involve generally
accepted auditing practices.

Mr. Hagan agreed to share a preliminary draft with the Committee.

Chairman Mu?oz requested that Mr. Morales set up a meeting with Donna Dunnings regarding such a
draft.

Director Greenspan inquired whether they might coordinate with Ms. Dunnings and Chairman Daley to
receive the System?s portion of the audit, with the proviso that the County?s Audit Committee does not
release and ?le the ?ll audit until the System Board has ?nished with their review of their portion.

REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 13,2008
PAGE 6

Mr. Hagan replied that he would discuss scheduling the Cook County Audit Committee for a date
between September 4 and September 18 with Ms. Dunnings and Mr. Morales.

 

Corporate Compliance

Status of the search for a Corporate Compliance Of?cer
Development of Corporate Compliance Manual and Forms

Mr. Calkin distributed information regarding corporate compliance efforts at the System. (Attachment


Mr. Calkin stated that Delores Campbell functions as the compliance of?cer at the System level.
Additionally, there are compliance of?cers at each facility, although some are temporary. Johnnie Brown
(Chief Operating Of?cer at Stroger Hospital) is the temporary compliance of?cer at Stroger Hospital and 
Sidney Thomas (Chief Operating Of?cer at Provident Hospital) is the temporary compliance of?cer at
Provident Hospital. There is a need for ?nding permanent compliance of?cers.

Mr. Calkin provided an overview of the reporting process. He stated that there is a hotline that
employees, physiciansand staff can call regarding compliance issues; names are not reported. Mr. Small 
is inthe process of recruiting a System-level, full-time compliance of?cer; many of the former six
compliance of?cers were laid off, so this is an area that has staf?ng needs.

Chairman Mu?oz requested that Mr. Calkin report back at the next meeting of the Audit Committee
regarding past budgets for the area of compliance.

Mr. Calkin agreed to do this.

Director O?Donnell inquired as to what the process is once someone calls the hotline.

A Mr. Calkin explained this process. First, the corporate compliance of?cer ?elds the call. He or she will
investigate the issue, and will communicate back to the organization that is affected by the report. If an
action plan is needed as a result of the investigation, it is developed and promulgated.

Chairman Mu?oz stated that Mr. Small was unable to attend this meeting to update them as to the

recruiting efforts for the Bureau-wide Corporate Compliance Of?cer. However, he stated for the record
that the Committee does want to be involved in the process of interviewing for this position.

 

Closed Session

A) 2007 Audit Issues and Discussions-CEO- CFOs and Deloitte
Touche
B) Provident Hospital Purchasing and Management Issues

REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 13, 2008
PAGE 7

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session to discuss personnel matters, pursuant to the illinois Open Meetings
Act, 5 120l2(c)(1), et 91:11., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?the
appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of speci?c
employees of the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal! counsel for the public body to determine its validity?.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY. 

Director O?Donnell, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to adjourn the closed session and
convene into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY. 

 

Public Comments

Chairman Mu?oz asked the Secretary to (21] upon the registered public speakers.

The Secretary informed the Chair that there were none.

 

Adioumment

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O'Donnell. moved to adjourn. THE MOTION 
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

submitted,

Audit and Compliance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the

Cook County Health

and Hospitals System

@?emt 

Bonn Grocnsp? Min, FACHE,
Director

- 
- 
Matthew B- DeLeon, Smretary 4 AUG 22 2008 

DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Attest: 

 

 

 

ATTACHMENT #1

Why should an organizatiOn have internal auditing?

    

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining a systemof internal controls within an
organization. internal controls are those structures, activities, processes, and systems which heip
management effectively mitigate the?risks to an organization's achievement of objectives. Management is
charged with this responsibility on behalf of the organization's stakeholders and is held accountable for this
responsibility by an oversight body board of directors, audit committee, elected representatives),

A dedicated, independent and effective internal audit activity aesists both management-and the oversight
body the board, audit committee) in fUifiliing thelrresponsibilities by bringing a systematic disciplined
approach to assessing the effectiveness of the design and execution of the system of internal controls and
risk management processes. The objective assessment of internal controls and risk management processes
by the internal audit activity provides management, the oversight body, and external stakeholders with
. independent assurance that the organization's risks have been appropriately mitigated. Because internal .
auditors are experts in understanding organizational risks and internal controls available to mitigate these
risks, they assist management in understanding these topics and provide recommendations for
improvements;

Organizations which do not have an internal audit functionare therefore missing out on the valuable benefits
that professional internal auditors provide. in addition, they are also running the risk of relying on
management who may not be in the best position to provide skilled, independent, and objective opinions on
internal controls. . I

Some organizations assign internal auditing on a part?time basis to an existing staff member who has other
responsibilities. When this occurs. the person does not have the professional internal audit training or
experience necessary for optimal effectiveness. Such organizations run the risk of poorly performed audits

7 and reviews, and this individual, who may be relatively junior in the organization, may lack the organizational
status and stature to achieve positive results. in this environment, high?risk processes may not be identified
for reviews and serious internal control deficiencies maybe overlooked.

A primary lesson from the financial failure and collapse of numerous organizations is that good governance,
risk management, and internal controls are essential to corporate success and longevity. Because of its
unique and objective perspective, in-depth organizational knowledge, and application of sound audit and
consulting principles, a well functioning, fully resourced and independent internal audit activity is well
positioned to providevaiuabie support and assurance to? an organization and its oversight entities.

How do internal and external auditOrs differ and how should they relate?

 

Internal and external audItors have mutual interests regarding the effectifeness of Internal fInanCIal contro s.
Both professions adhere to codes of ethics and professional standards set by their respective professional
associations. There are, however, major differences with regard to their relationships to the organization,
and to their scope of work and objectives.

The internal auditors? are part of the organization. Their objectives are determined by professional
standards, the board, and management. Their primary clients are management and the board. External
auditors are not part of the organization, but are engaged by it. Their objectives are set primarily by statute
and their primary client - the board of directors. I

The internai auditors scope of work is comprehensive. It serves the organization by helping it accomplish its
objectives, and improving operations, risk management, internal controls, and governance processes.
Concerned with all aspects of the organization- both financial and non- ~financial the internal auditors focus
on future events as a result of their continuous review and evaluation of controls and processes They also
are concerned with the prevention of fraud In any form.

The primary mission of the'external auditors is to provide an independent opinion on the organization?s
financial statements, annually. Their approach is historical in nature, as they assess whether the statements
conform with generally accepted accounting principles, whether they fairly present the financiai position of
the organization, whether the results of operations fora given period of time are accurately represented, and
whether the financial statements have been materially affected.

The internal and external auditors should meet periodically to discuss common interests; benefit from their
complementary skills, areas of expertise, and perspectives; gain understanding of each other's scope of
work and methods; discussaudit coverage and scheduling to minimize redundancies; prdvide access to
reports, programs and working papers; and jointly assess areas of risk. In fulfilling its oversight
responsibilities for assurance, the board should require coordination of internal and external audit work to
increase economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of the overall audit process.

is it mandatory to have an internal audit activity?

 

Whether an organIzatIon Is removed to have an Internal audIt actIVIty or not depends on the respectIve
regulatory requirements that govern the organization. In the United States, the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) requires publicly traded companies to "maintain an internal audit function to provide management
and the audit committee with ongoing assessments of the company's risk management processes and
system of internal controls This requirement was effective October 31, 2004. Stock ekchanges throughout
the world have their own norms governing such companies, and some have implemented reQuirements
similar to those of the NYSE.

Atthough private companies those not publicly listed - are not required to have internal auditing, many of
them have established an internal audit activity as one of its core organizational governance elements.

A well functioning, adequately resourced internal audit activity that works coliaboratively with management
and the board is a key resource in identifying risks and recommending improvements to an organization's
governance, risk management internal controls and operations. The internal auditors' unique perspective of
independence and objectivity, knowledge of the organization, and understanding and application of sound
consulting and audit principles make them ideal for this roie.

Helpful References:

Guidance on "internal Auditing's Role in Section 302 and 404 of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act of
2002" 7 -
"Establishing an Internal Audit Shop"
"The Role of internal Audit in Corporate Governance and Management"

ATTACHMENT #2

Corporate

Compllunce
1 Orientation

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. Corporate
Compliance

Integrity
ct. High Ethical Standards
'3 Accountability

 

 

Accuracy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
9.0




9.0

Risk Assessment, Auditing MonItorIng

Disclosures/ Report Violatio 

Components of
Corporate
Com IIunce

EdUcotion Training

 

Complaint Tracking lnvestiga ns

 

Corrective Action Disciplin

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   Reporting
Concerns Violations

4 Ways

 

0 Talk to your supervisor/ manager

   

      

0 Talk to your Corporate Complian f-Off

 

0 Talk to the Bureau Corporate omplliance Office 

 

0 Complete Compliance

Investigation/ Referral For 

 

 

 

  

Summarize

4. Corporate compliance
- Accountability

 

Objectives
Reduce Minimize Risk Exposure

0 Protect Funds

 

0 Ensure Compliance with Fede

 

laws, rules regulations
rt. Educate &_Train

rt. Report Concerns/Violations

 

 

 

 

 

 

Targeted Training

Coders

Financial Personnel
Physicians

Nurses

Utilization
Admissions

Trainers

Next Steps

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

