REPORT OF THE
COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System met pursuant to notice on Monday, August 18,2008 at the hour of 7. 30 A. ..M at 1900 West Polk

August 18, 2008 

ATTENDANCE
Chairman Andrea L. Zopp; Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts and
Directors David Carvalho, Quin R. Golden, Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM,
and Jorge Ramirez (6)
None (0)

Directors Jerry Butler, Benn Greenspan, MPH, FACHE and
Heather O?Donnell, Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s

Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney;

Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil'Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the
State?s Attorney; Laura Lechowicz~Felicione Special Counsel to
President Todd H. Stroger; Cecil Marchand Associate Administrator,
Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Jonathan Rothstein Acting Bureau
Chief, Bureau of Human Resources of Cook County; Matthew B.
DeLeon Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board; David Small Chief
Operating Officer, Cook COunty Bureau of Health Services, Aaron
Hamb, Chief Medical Of?cer, Provident Hospital; Dr. Avery Hart -

Interim Chief Medical Of?cer, Cermak Health Facility

Street, Second Floor Conference Room, 111 Chicago, Illinois.

Your Human Resources Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report,

the recommendations follow.

Matthew B. DeLeon, of the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members, and it was

Roll Call

detenm'ned that a quorum was present.

Chairman Zopp stated that she had sent out a meeting schedule for the Human Resource Committee that
aligned with the meeting schedule of the Board of Directors, the way it is scheduled the Committee would

 

be meeting the week before the Board meetings.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

August 18, 2008

PAGE 2

Proposed 2008 meeting dates for the Human Resources Committee
(Attachment ?Backup for Item 

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne moved to Approve the Proposed Meeting Dates for
the Human Resource Committee of the Cook County Health and Hospitals Systems Board as

amended.

On the motion, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED 

 

Old Business

Proposed Physician Salary Reclassi?cations
(Attachment ?Backup for Item 

Chairman Zopp stated that one individual?s name that was included on the previous list of Physician
Salary Reclassi?cations at the last Human Resource Committee meeting had been dropped off the list and

was not voted on.

David Small, Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services, stated that two
physicians were left off the previous list. The ?rst was in Internal Medicine and the second was Dr. 
Fegan, a physician at Ambulatory and Community Health Network. Also there are two vacant positions
that need to be changed as well; they will be posted for hiring.

Director Carvalho stated when the reclasses were discussed at the last meeting it was indicated to the
Committee that in doing the adjustments it was to make the salaries comparable to the 50th percentile
from a' comparable survey. At that time Mr. Carvalho had asked whether an adjustment had been made in
making those comparisons, taking into account that the County pays for malpractice and also that the
County o?'ers an unusually attractive de?ned bene?t pension plan. Mr. Small indicated that the
adjustment was made. Director Carvalho would like to hear the methodology for making those
comparisons, as well as far taking into account the malpractice and the pension.

Jonathan Rothstein, Acting Bureau Chief, Bureau of . Human Resources of Cook County, raised an issue
in regards to the salary reclassi?cations in general. Mr. Rothstein stated that the County is in the proceSs
of going through the reclasses that were approved at the last Board meeting, and are encountering some
problems with reconciling approved salaries into existing slot. Further Mr. Rothstein stated that his staff
has completed a spreadsheet re?ecting all problems.

Director Carvalho asked if the increase pushes the reclasses out of range.

Mr. Rothstein stated that without a salary-matching slot that individual would have to be moved into. a
K12 slot.

Chairman Zopp stated that the Committee stated that the reclasses without any issues should be
processed. Chairman Zopp requested an update of only. those reclasses with con?ict by the next
Committee meeting, and asked Mr. Rothstein to work together with Mr. Small to ?nd a resolution to fix
the problem. She stated that a better job needs to be done with the reciass process. In conclusion,
Chairman Zopp stated that several of the Directors asked to have more information in the backup (such as
the individual?s current grade and step, and the grade and step that the individual is proposed to go into).

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM .
August 18, 2008
PAGE 3

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden moved to Approve the four additional Physician
Salary Reclassi?cations.

On the motion, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Review and discussion of proposed Human Resources organization
for the Cook County Health and Hospitals Sy. stem

(Attachment ?Backup for Item 
Chairman Zopp inquired whether Mr. Small had any back up for the Committee.

Mr. Small presented an organizational chart representing the preposed Human Resource structure for the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System. Mr. Small stated that it is important to educate employees;
orientation and training are particularly important for staff. Further, performance based and clear 
compensation, job descriptions and recruiting should be emphasized. Most of this has been handled by
the resources at the individual hospitals, at ?ie System level and certainly by the County Human Resource
Department. As the System Board moves toward trying to develop more internal infrastructure, these are
the kind of processes that need to be addressed. Mr. Small stated that not all of it needs to be within the
System; it still needs to be in cooperation with County Human Resources

Director Lyne asked What would be the cost di?erence between what is proposed and what is current.

Mr. Small stated that he will have Cecil Marchand, Associate Administrator, Stroger Hospital of Cook
County, respond to this question. He further inquired if the System Board were to handle all of the
Human Resource ?mctions that involve hiring and recruiting individuals, how many more staff would be

needed.

Mr. Marchand stated that currently there are nine personnel for the entire System but itcould use 10 to 15
more individuals to ef?ciently cover this function. Due to the layoff; the current staff is multitasking and

is being cross trained to keep up.
Chairman Zopp asked Mr. Marchand to walk the Committee-through the process of hiring an individual.

Mr. Marchand stated that the Cook County Health and Hospitals System sends the request?to-hire to the
County, the County sends quali?ed candidates, and the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
handles interviews. He stated that Shakman is also involved' in the interview process.

Director Carvalho stated that it would be helpful to identify a number needed at Cook County Health and
Hospitals System and a number at County.

Mr. Rothstein stated that there are ?ve individuals at the County that are dedicated to the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System hiring function. There are individuals who handle grievances, staff training,
wages and salaries analysis. Further, Mr. Rothstein stated that there is no active recruiting function but it
is one of the things that he is adding to the budget for FY2009.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
August 18, 2008

PAGE 4

Director Zopp stated that there still must be cooperation with the County, as they are involved in
Shakman, grievances and collective bargaining. Also 'we must identify who is doing what in order to
bring in a Human Resources Director. Finally, she asked how Human Resource staff at the hospitals roll

into these areas.

Mr. Small stated that initially, fOr a period of a year or two, they should try to pull together at a system
level, centralize it, have it working ef?ciently with a few individuals at the individual facilities who
would be reporting into the central line. This should take place until such time that it the Human
Resources function is ef?cient and effective and can be perhaps more generally diffused out to facilities.
Currently individuals report to a central System level. Mr. Small stated that there is maximum ?exibility

for any new Human Resource chief.

Chairman Zopp stated that she' 18 concerned about hiring a Human Resource Director Without knowing
who the permanent Chief Executive Of?cer (CEO) will be. Further she stated that the CEO process is six

months down the road.

Director Lyne stated that talent and goodwill may make it possible for the CEO to get along with an
existing Human Resource 

Director Carvalho stated his concern regarding timeline and impact of not being able to address issues.

Director Golden asked what are the metrics currently being used in the Human Resource area. Has an
asset inventory been done? What is the relationship with surrounding colleges?

Chairman Zopp stated that the Committee should work on the job description for the position of Human
Resource Director. Further, she stated that she would like Mr. Small, Mr. Rothstein and Mr. Marchand to
- put a document together that outlines the current state of Human Resources, County vs. Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, what kind of work is anticipated and a consensus of where we are at and
where we want to go. After this document is prepared, the Human Resources Director job description can
be Worked on. She stated that at the next Human Resource meeting she would like to see what the current
state is and what they would anticipate moving in terms of work load.

 

Review and discussion of propgsed recruiting and hiring process
and mlicies for the Cook County Health and Hospitals Sy. stem.

Chairman Zopp stated that when she reviewed the hiring process it appeared to be not as complicated as
other hiring policies that she as seen. Overall it makes sense particularly when you layer on the
required review for Shakman. Not something that the Committee needs to overhaul, but we can look at a
couple of streamlining' issues: 1) Who' IS doing the review; there are 8 different levels of revrew

2) Approve and minimize complications for job applicants 3) What is the time required to get through the
process? She has heard that request-to-hires have been ?led and not processed. She does not know if that
is true or not; we need to track' 1n order to determine whether it is true.

Director Lyne asked on average how long does the hiring process take.

din

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

August 18, 2008

PAGE 5

Mr. Rothstein responded 45-to-90 days. There are a variety of reasons why positions may not be ?lled
which the Committee may not be aware of. It is a simple process for someone at a department level to ?ll
out a request to hire, but they might be ?lling out a request to hire for a position that does not have

budgeted ?mds to ?ll.

Chairman Zopp stated that the individual ?lling out the request?to-hire should know that. Further,
Chairman Zopp stated that we need to ?nd a way to start tracking the timing of the hiring process and also
need to ?nd a way to communicate to the managers what the status of their applications-are on a relatively

timely basis.

Mr. Rothstein stated ?iat he will take a. look at what information he could provide the Committee with on
a current basis and will report back at the next Human Resource meeting.

Director Golden inquired as to where the County is with the online application system.

Mr. Rothstein stated that they are trying to implement it countywide and now are working with Oracle;
they have received a quote with the current payroll and accounting systems and are moving forward.

Chairman Zopp asked what the timeframe is.

Mr. Rothstein stated that he does not have a ?xed timeframe. Mr. Rothstein stated that the goal IS to
eliminate review of paper applications.

Director Carvalho asked if the attempt to balance between expenditures and revenues at a central location
can impact timeframe and is this factor included in this process.

Mr. Rothstein stated that there are multiple levels of review in the System and at the County. Items can
be held at any Cook County Health and Hospitals System level or County level. Further, Mr. Rothstein
stated that this year each of the bureaus and departments were required to create a hiring plan, because
when the budget was passed there was both a turnover adjustment and a percentage hold back that was
ordered by the Board of Commissioners. At this time we are working off of a hiring plan submitted by
the-then Bureau of Health Services.

Chairman Zapp requested a copy of the hiring plan.

Mr. Small stated he will supply the Committee with a copy of the hiring plan. Also Mr. Small stated that
initially he was asked to put the hiring plan tOgether because the Bureau of Health was absorbing budget
reduction through turnover adjustment. Initially when the budget was passed no hiring was to take place
until May 1 and then the date was pushed back to July 1. Each department has a hiring plan that outlines
every single open position and when they expect to start recruiting for those positions.

Chairman Zopp stated that she would like to see the current request-to-hires that have been submitted and
when they were ?led. 

Mr. Marchand stated that he will supply the Committee with that information.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES. COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

August 18, 2008

PAGE 6

Chairman Zopp asked Mr. Small if there are rules where level 0f review can be removed on the County
side. Also she would like Mr. Small to discuss this issue with Mr. Rothstein and come back to the

Committee with a recommendation.

Chairman Zopp stated that the System Board needs to adopt their own rules and own policies. She will
have this issue back on the agenda at the next Committee meeting so that the Directors will have a chance
to review the policies. She will look towards having a set of policies that the SystemrBoard can approve

at the Committee meeting of September 12.

 

Discuss Human Resources focus areas for Strategic Plan

Chairman Zopp stated that Director GreenSpan is moving forward with the strategic plan and that he is
looking for the Human Resource Committee to contribute Some areas of focus.

Director Golden stated that she had met with Director GreenSpan and planned to have a meeting again 
this time with staff at County on Wednesday at 11:00 On Wednesday August 13, Director
Greenspan held a meeting with staff regarding data collection. Further, Director Golden stated that some
areas of Human Resources should be included in part of the process and will hope to have some
information to bring back to the System Board by Friday. 

Chairman Zopp stated that overall Human Resources needs to have ef?ciency. She also stated that
recruitment and retention of all of our talent is key for the System Board. We also need to be thinking
about staf?ng because of some?of the areas in the hospitals are understaffed.

Chairman Zopp stated that now that the Human Resource Committee has .a set meeting schedule which
will allow the information to be distributed at?a week before the meeting.

Director Golden stated that she would add that the Committee should think about af?liations and
partnerships with the City Colleges, universities and the academic medical centers; there is a lot of 
opportunity to leverage in terms of their intellectual capital as well as their ability to facilitate training.

Director Carvalho stated that all of the Shakmau eXempt positions have now been taken internally, so at
issue now is the strategy of both going forward and how to deal with the transition from County to Cook

County Health and Hospitals System control.

Chairman Zopp stated that she had received from Laura Lechowicz-Felicione, Special Counsel to
President Todd H. Stroger, both her presentation and a summary of the communication on Shakman.

Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione stated that she had sent to all the member of the System Board the County?s
Training Presentation on Shakman. She also sent a separate communication to the members of the
Human Resource Committee regarding the opinion from the State?s Attorney?s Office to the Department .
Heads regarding what constitutes a Shakman exempt position. 

 REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY -

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

August 18, 2008

PAGE 7

Chairman Zopp stated that she will distribute the reports from Judge Nowicki?s website to the Committee.

 

Review, discuss and approval of physician labor contracts
(Attachment ?Backup for Item 

a) An agreement for the period of January 29, 2008 November 30, 2008 between
Service Employees International Union, Local 20 and Cook County for certain
physicians employed at Provident Hospital of Cook County.

b) An agreement for the period of August 28, 2008 - November 30, 2008 between
Service Employees International Union, Local 20 and Cook County for certain
physicians employed at Cermak Health Services.

0) An agreement for the period of August 28, 2008 - November 30, 2008 between
Service Employees International Union, Local 20 and Cook County for certain
physicians employed at the Ambulatory and Community Health Network. 

Chairman Zopp stated that there were labor contracts negotiated between the County and physicians at
Provident Hospital of Cook County, Cermak Health Services and the Ambulatory and Community Health
Network; the County Board and the System Board. has to approve those contracts.

Chairman Zopp asked Mr. Rothstein if he were prepared to talk about what is in the contracts.

Mr. Rothstein stated that he prepared two documents: one is a ?scal impact summary payroll impact of
the three contracts, and the other document contains a set of bullet points highlighting the various terms of

agreements.

Mr. Rothstein stated the document with the ?scal impact of the agreements is approximately 6 million

dollars which IS the payroll impact. What the County agreed to do 18 place 120 to 125 positions on the

salary schedule for the unionized positions which were negotiated at Oak Forest Hospital. Once placed

on that schedule they would receive retroactive payments of those increases to the date of certi?cation,

which 111 the case of Ambulatory and Community Health Network and Cermak Health Services was
August 28, 2007, and' in the case of Provident Hospital was January 29,2008.

Mr. Rothstein walked. the Committee through the document with the bullet points.

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Golden moved to Defer the Labor Contracts to the next.
Human Resource Committee of August 28,2008 at 7: 30 a. 111.

On the motion, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Carvalho, moved to recess the regular session and convene
into closed session to discuss personnel matters, pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
et seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of speci?c employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine
its validity?. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY. 

- REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

August 18, 2008

PAGE 8

Chairman Zopp stated that the Human Resource Committee was now back 1n open session, and asked for-
a motion to adjourn.

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene
into regular session, THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

- Adjournment

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE NIEETIN ADJOURNED. 

Respectfull ubmitted, 

Human ?ees Committee of the
Boardo Dir tors of 6

Cook oun a1 ospitals System

w. I I 
Ms. Andrea L. ZoWWian

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

  

 

Attest:

  

 

ATTACHMENT #1

Proposed 2008 Meeting Dates
Human Resources Committee of the Cook County Health and Hospital Systems Board 

Board of Directors of the Health and Hospital Systems

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE 
Monday, August 18, 2008 7:30 am. - 10:00 am. Friday, August 22, 2008 7:30 am.
Thursday, August 28, 2008 7:30 am. 10:00 am. Friday, September 5, 2008 7:30 am.
*Friday, September 12, 2008 7:30 am. - 10:00am. Friday, September 19, 2008 - 7:30 am.
Friday, September 26, 2008 - 7:30 am. 10:00 am. Friday, October 3, 2008 7:30 am.
Friday Thursday, October 9 2008 7:30. am. 10:00 am. Thursday, October 16, 2008 7:30 am.
Thursday, October 23, 2008 7:30 am. 10:00 am. Thursday, October 30, 2008 7:30 am.
Thursday, November 6, 2008 7:30 am. - 10:00am. Thursday, November 13, 2008 7:30 am.
Monday, November 24, 2008 7:30 am. - 10:00 am. Friday, December 5, 2008 7:30 am.
Friday,December 12, 2008 7:30 a.m. -,10:00 am. Thursday, December 18, 2008 7:30 am.

 

 

original date sent to the Committee was Thursday, September 11, 2008' 7:30 am. - 10:00 am.

 

ATTACHMENT #2

 

PHYSICIAN RECLASS REQUESTS HR COMMITTEE MEETING

STROGER HOSPITAL PHYSICIAN RECLASS REQUEST - 897'

 

 

Name Start Date PID Current Salary Fiscal Impact

 

Warren Piette, MD 10/18/04 0500387 $277,295.00 $22,705.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AMBULATORY COMMUNITY HEALTH NETWORK - 893

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name . . Start Date PID Current Salary Fiscal Impact
Claudia Fegan, MD . 6/26/05 . 0700084 $209,068.00 $3,721.00
-.Vacant . 0700042 $140,168.00 - (8297.00)
iracant - 0700019 $150,576.00 

 

 

 

 

 

The physician re-class for Dr. Warren Piette (Stroger Hospital) who was on the deferred
July 22?d County Board agenda, is being requested as he was not included on the August
4?h listing merely due to a typo. (August 4th) .

The physician re-class requests for the two vacant positions and Dr. Claudia Fegan
(ACHN) are being requested as their names were inadvertently left off of the list that was
presented at the August 4th HR Committee" meeting.

 

ATTACHMENT #3 -

 

 

Talent
Acquisition

 

 

Executive Recruiter
(Physicians Management)

 

 

Nursing Clinical
Staff Recruiter

 

 

Non-Clinical
Staff Recruiter

 

 

 

Support Staff

 

 

 

 

 

- Ions: .
Job Postings Advertisement
Initial Applicant Screening
Shakman Compliance
Employment Offers

 

 

 

Position Control

 

 

 

 

 

 

System Director
of
Human Capitol

 

 

 

Staff
Processing

 

 

Human Resource
Specialists

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Tuition Reimbursement

 

Badging

Bene?ts Signup

Background Checks 
Employee Health Screening
Employee Records

 
 

 

 

4 Staff

Labor Learning
Relations

 

 

 

 

 

Compensation

 

 

 

Orientation

Labor Relations Specialist

A Specialists

 

 

 

 

 

Trainer

 

 

 

Support Staff

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wage 8. Salary
Analyst

 

 

 

 

   

   
  

Collective Bargaining
Discipline, Grievance,
Termination support

Clinical Recerti?cations
Staff Enrichment

Prima Functions:
Compensation Analysis

 

 

 

 

 

 

Management Training

  

3 Job Description

 

ATTACHMENT #6

REVISED

August 18, 2008

Health and Hospital Systems Board

. Transmitting herewith is a Collective Bargaining Agreement and Wage Resolution covering SEIU Local
20 representing doctors at Ambulatory Health Care Network, Cermak, and Provident HOSpital for your
consideration and approval at the August 18, 2008 Board Meeting.

The wages negotiated are as follows: 
FISCAL YEAR 2005 1.00% wage increase 219,073.00

FISCAL YEAR 2006 7 3.00% wage increase 334,108.00

FISCAL YEAR 2007 4.00% wage increase 460,165.00

FISCAL YEAR 2008 4.75% wage increase . 569,750.00

ESTIMATED cosr - 1,582,590.00 1
NO BONUS 

CURRENT SALARIES: 2 9,741,592.00 12,165,66000
INCREASE IN PAYROLL (12.75%) . 703,461.00 879 135.00

 

TOTAL ESTINIATED NEW PAYROLL: $0,445,053.00 _13,044,795.00

Jonathan A. Rothstein
Acting Bureau Chief

JAR: bt

 

7 1 These ?gures re?ect the cost of retroactive payments to the date of certi?cation. The union was certi?ed as the bargaining
agent at ACHN and Cermak on August 28, 2007 and at Provident on January 29, 2008.

 of Service Employees International Union Local 20 Attending Physicians
Contract for ACHN, Cermak Health SerVices and Provident Hospital
REVISED

The County recently completed negotiations with Service Employees International
Union, Local 20 of agreements covering physicians employed at three locations:
Provident Hospital, the Ambulatory and Community Health Network (ACHN) and
Cermak Health Services. The previously negotiated Contract covering doctors at Oak
Forest Hospital was used as the template. Signi?cant provisions of these agreements

include:

0 A comprehensive management rights clause reserving to management full 7
discretion in the operation of the facilities except as expressly limited by the

agreement.

0 A provision guaranteeing that credentialing decisions are not subject to the
grievance and arbitration provisions of the contracts. The agreement does include
a standard? just cause? provision for employee discipline, but loss of credentials

leads to automatic termination of employment.

0 Layoff language that allows management to consider a broad range of
performance measures in determining order of layoff and recall. This is
signi?cantly better than the rules for physicians, which require layoff by seniority.

- Promotion is reserved to the discretion of management based on a broad range of
performance factors.

0 . The work week is de?ned as a minimum of 50 hours per week with physicians
agreeing that they will work all hours necessary to perform their duties. Special
earnings for weekend and other work have been eliminated.

The County resisted all attempts to set a minimum salary about the current grade
of K4 (the union proposed a minimum grade of K6) and successfully resisted all

demands to upgrade or reclassify physicians.

- A union proposal allowing physicians to have veto power over malpractice
settlements was success?illy resisted.?

- The County resisted inclusion of a guaranteed annual amount of continuing
medical education courses, while agreeing to paid time off to attend these sessions
and to allowing physicians to access previously negotiated funds for continuing
education for all Local 20 members.

0 An agreement was reached to place these physicians on the physician salary
schedule previously negotiated between the County? and the Union for Oak Forest
Hospital physicians. This schedule incorporates wage increases of 12.75% over a
4 year period commencing December 1, 2004 through November 30, 2008.
Doctors at these three facilities will be entitled to retroactive increases to the date
on which their bargaining unit was certi?ed, which is August 28, 2007 in the case

lof2

Summary of Service Employees Intemational Union Local 20 Attending Physicians
Contract for ACHN, Cermak Health Services and Provident Hospital
REVISED

of ACHN and Cermak and January 29, 2008 in the case of Provident Hospital.
The total estimated cost is set forth on the transmittal sheet but is approximately

1.6 million dollars.

0 Other bene?ts including health insurance, holidays, vacation, sick days and the
like are status quo and consistent with the bene?ts generally-provided to County
employees. This includes changes in employee contributions to the cost of health
insurance and plan design changes in co-payments? and deductibles negotiated in
2004 with the other unions representing County employees.

20f2

