REPORT OF THE
QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JANUARY 27, 2009

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman David Ansell, MD and Luis Mu?oz, MD, MPH (2)
Lois Elia and Pat Merriweather (N on-Director Members)
Absent: Director Hon. Jerry Butler (1)

Also Present: Homer Abiad, MD President of the Medical Staff, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County;
David Barker, MD - Janice Benson, MD President of the Medical Staff, John H. Stroger,
Jr. HosPital of Cook County; Julie Bonello Chief Information Of?cer, Cook County Health
and Hospitals System; Martina Harrison, RN, MSN MSN, Chief Nursing Of?cer, Provident
Hospital; Aaron Hamb, Chief Medical Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County; Avery Hart,
MD lnterim Chief Medical Officer, Cermak Health Services; Catherine Kelly Of?ce of the
State?s Attorney; Sue Klein Director of Quality, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County;
Mark Krause, MD President of the Medical Staff, Provident Hospital of Cook County;
Maurice Lemon, MD, MPH Chief Medical Of?cer, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County; Charlene Luchsinger Credentials Veri?cation O?lcer, Cook County Health and
HosPitals System; Stephen Martin, MPH Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook County
Department of Public Health; Enrique Martinez, MD .. Chief Medical O?icer, Ambulatory and
Community Health Network of Cook County; Lula Roberson Interim Director, Quality
Services, Provident Hospital of Cook County; Deborah Santana .. Of?ce of the Secretary to the

Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Angela Schrimpl Director of Accreditation and
Quality, Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook County

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, January 27, 2009 at the hour of 12:00 P.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901
West Harrison Street, in the ?fth ?oor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Quality and Patient Safety Committee has considered the following items and, upon adoption of this
report, the recommendations follow.

Welcome and Igtroductions

Chairman Ansell welcomed the attendees and asked all present at the meeting to introduce themselves.
Additionally, he introduced a new non-Director member, Lois Elia, whom Chairman Baits has appointed to
serve on the Committee in place of Dr. Lee Sacks. Dr. Sacks has had scheduling dif?culties and has been
unable to attend the meetings.

 

Roll Call

Deborah Santana, of the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members, and it was determined
that a quorum was present. 

 

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JANUARY 27, 2009

PAGE 2

Review and accept minutes of the following meetings:

0 Meeting of November 25, 2008 (deferred on 12Q3f08)
I Meeting of December 23, 2008

Director Munoz, seconded by Chairman Ansell, moved to accept the minutes of the meetings of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of November 25, 2008 and December 23, 2008. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Receive update on Family Case Management Transition

Dr. Stephen Martin, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Cook County Department of Public Health, presented an
update on the Family Case Management Program transition. (See Attachment 

 

Review and recommend approval of Institutional Review Board Use Agreement between the Board

of of the University of Illinois and Cook Counm?Cook Conny Health and Hospitals
System [Attachment 

 

Director Munoz, seconded by Chairman Ansell, moved to recommend the approval of the Institutional
Review Board Use Agreement between the Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois and Cook
County Health and Hospitals System. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Progress on Dashboard

Chairman Ansell distributed materials that provided information on some ideas for dashboard reporting. He
noted that not on Iy. does the System need to meet standards, they also have to demonstrate improvement.

Ms. Elia provided information on the dashboard structure at Advocate, at the request of Chairman Ansell.

The Committee discussed the information. Chairman Ansell stated that at the next meeting, he would like to see
on the ?idea level? what should be on a System-wide dashboard.

 

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JANUARY 27, 2009

PAGE 3

 

Receive gnarterlp gualitv report and report on status of preparations from Cermak Health Services

Receive report on provisional status of Ambulatog and Communitv Hem Network accreditatiop
b! Joint Commission

 

Receive and approve Medical Skiff 

 

Receive report of the Joint Conference Committee of Stroger Hospital for the meeting of November
18, 2008

Receive reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees frorp Providept. Oak Forest and
Stroger Hospitals

Receive reports on the following:
i An}.r Sentinel Events or Near Misses

I Any Patient Grievance Reports
0 Update on ?never? events

I Report on Recent Regulatory Visits

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Chairman Ansell, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120f2(c)(17), et seq.,
which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal
peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing
medical care, that is operated by the public body,?I and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings
Act, 5 ILCS which states: ?litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the
particular body has been ?led and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the
public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the ?nding shall be
recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting." THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Chairman Ansell, seconded by Director Mul'ioz, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Chairman Ansell, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to approve the Medical Staff Appointmentsze-
appointmentsiChanges. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JANUARY 27, 2009
PAGE 4

Following are the Medical Staff that were approved:

Physicians:

Bonaparte, Katina, MD.
Appointment Effective:

Davis, Vanessa, MD.
Appointment Effective:

Harting, Brian, MD.
Appointment Effective:

Weber, Thomas, MD.
Appointment Effective:

Mid Level Practitioner:

Brown, Nikki, A., PA-C
Appointment Effective:

Nosheen, Uzma, PA-C
Appointment Effective:

Physicians:

Correctional Center Health Services

Lee, Choong H., MD.

Reappointment Effective:

Department of Medicine

Goodman, Larry, M.D.

Reappointment Effective:

Department of Surgery
Chaudhry, Vivek, MD.

Reappointrnent Effective:

JOHN H. STROGEE, JR. HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY

INITIAL APPOINTMENTS
CennakaedlSurg
January 27, 2009 through January 26, 2011


January 27, 2009 through January 26, 20I 

Medicine/Infectious Diseases
January 27, 2009 through January 26, 201 

Surgernyeneral Surgery
January 27, 2009 through January 26, 201 I

Emergency Medicine
January 27, 2009 through January 26, 201]

Emergency Medicine
January 27', 2009 through January 26, 20] 1

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS


April 17, 2009 through April 16, 2011

Infectious Disease
January 27, 2009 through January 26, 201 I

Surgerinolon Rectal

February 19, 2009 through February 18, 201 1

Active Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Physician Assistant

Physician Assistant

Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JANUARY 27, 2009

 

PAGE 5
JOHN H. STROGER, JR. HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY {continuedl
Mid Level Practitioner Reappointments:
Argueta, Alejandra, PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
Reappointment Effective: January 22, 2009 through January 21, 201 
Flucker, Venita R., PA-C Obstetrics Gynecology Physician Assistant
Reappointment Effective: January 22, 2009 through January 2 I 201 1
Micci, Sandra J., PA-C Medicine Physician Assistant
Reappointment Effective: January 27, 2009 through January 26, 201 1
Shah, Palak K., Surgery Physician Assistant
Reappointrnent Effective: January 27, 2009 through January 26, 2011
Soriano, Alexandra, PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
Reappointment Effective: January 27, 2009 through January 26, 201 1
Collaborative Agreement
Nosheen, Uzma, Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
Collaborative Agreement with Prescriptive Authorigg
Argueta, Alejandra, Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
Brown, Nikki, A., PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
Flucker, Venita R., PA-C Obstetrics Gynecology Physician Assistant
Micci, Sandra ., PA-C Medicine Physician Assistant
Shah, Palak K., PA-C Surgery Physician Assistant
Soriano, Alexandra, PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant

MEDICAL STAFF CHANGE WINO CHANGE IN CLINICAL PRIVILEGES

Asbury, Joseph, MD. From Active Physician Grade K7, Step 5 to Active Physician Grade K3, Step 4
MedicineI'Gen. Med Acet# 1 10, BudgetsE 8972332; PID 9621875
Dworkin, Mark, MD. From Voluntary Physician to Consultant Physician Grade Acct 133
Medicine?nf. Disease Budget# 8940701; PID 0789401
Greager, John, MD. From Active Physician to Voluntary Physician
Surgery/Surgical One.
Jacobs, Elizabeth, MD. From Active Physician Grade K7, Step 5 to Active Physician Grade K8, Step 4
MedicinefGen. Med Acct# I 10, Budget-l:E 8970162; PID 9321890

Kumapley, Rudolph, MD. From Active Physician Grade K8, Step 4 to Active Physician Grade K9, Step 2
MedicinefGen. Med Acct# 110, Budget# 8970170; PID 0400264

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JANUARY 27, 2009

 

PAGE 6

JOHN H. STROGER JR. HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL STAFF CHANGE WMO CHANGE IN CLINICAL PRIVILEGES (continued:

Mayefsky, Jay, MD. From Active Physician Grade K6, Step 5 to Active Physician Grade K7, Step 4
ACHN Acct 110, Budgets! 8930418; PID 700083
Prasad, Leela, MD. From Active Physician to Voluntary Physician
Surgeryr?Colon Rectal
Sturman, Maureen, MD. From Active Physician Grade K7, Step 3 to Medical Div. Chair Grade K7,

MedicinefGen. Med Step 5, Acct# 110, Budgetit 8970162; PID 9521959

OAK FOREST HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY

MEDICAL STAFF INITIAL APPOINTMENTS

 

Name Department Status
Ross-Douglas, Brandi, MD. Medicine/ICU Visiting Consultant

Appointment effective Jan. 27, 2009 through Jan. 26, 201 1

MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS

Name Department Status
Abiad, Homer, MD. Medicinei'lnfectious Disease Active

Appointment effective Jan. 27, 2009 Through Jan.26, 2011

Adkins, Linda, OD. Surgenr/Optometiy Active
Appointment effective Jan. 27, 2009 Through Jan. 26, 2011

Morcos, Isaac, MD. Medicine Visiting Consultant
Appointlnent effective Jan. 27, 2009 Through Jan. 26, 2011

Gragasin, Maria Elena, M.D. Neurosciencesr?Neurology Visiting Consultant
Appointment effective Jan. 27, 2009 Through Jan. 26, 201 1

MEDICAL STAFF STATUS CHANGE Provisional to Active

Patel, Shilpa, MD. Mediciner?lnfectious Disease Active

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JANUARY 2009

PAGE 7'

PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL STAFF APPOINTMENTS
Department ofFamilv Medicine

Ayala, Jose, MD. Family Medicine Af?liate Physician
Appointment effective: January 27, 2009 through January 26, 201 1

Shah, Ravi, MD. Family Medicine Affiliate Physician
Appointment effective: January 27, 2009 through January 26, 2011
Department of Internal Medicine

Tracy, Mark, M.D. Medicine (PMELR) - Voluntary Physician
Appointment effective: January 27, 2009 through January 26, 2011

MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS

Department of Pediatrics

Chinwuba, Ebelc MD. . Pediatrics Ancillary Physician
Reappointment effective: November 14, 2008 through November 13, 2010

Department of Critical CE

Sobek, Sabine, M.D. Critical Care Ancillary Physician
effective: February 4, 2009 through February 3, 2011

MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER REAPPOINTMENTS
Wyatt, Laura, PA-C Surgery Physician Assistant,

Certi?ed
Reappointment effective: January 23, 2009 through January 22, 2011

Shah, Chandrika, PA-C Surgery Physician Assistant,

Certi?ed
Reappointment effective: October 17, 2003 through October 16, 2010
Diallo, Reneau, CNM, APN OBIGYN Certified Nurse
Midwife

effective: February 21, 2009 through February 20, 2011

Schlaegar, Judith, CNM, APN OBIGYN Certi?ed Nurse
Midwife .
Reappointment effective: February 21, 2009 through February 20, 2011

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JANUARY 27, 2009

PAGE 3

PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY tcontinuedt

- MEDICAL STAFF APPOINTMENTS TO BE AMENDED
FROM PROVISIONAL TO FULL STATUS

 

Name Department Status

Leak, Angel., MD. Internal Medicine Active Physician
Date on staff June 17, 2008; Appointment effective January 27, 2009

Nadeent, Ahmed, MD. Emergency Medicine Active Physician
Date on staff June 17, 2003; Appointment effective January 27, 2009

MEDICAL STAFF CHANGE OF CATEGORY STATUS

Gandhi, Pra?Jil, MD. Internal Medicine Active to Af?liate Physician

 

Public Comments
Chairman Ansell asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.

Ms. Santana replied that there were none.

 

Adjournment

Chairman Ansell, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED AND
THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,

Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board/of Directors of the

Coo 'County Health and Hospitals System

3/ 

David Ansell, MD, Chairman

  

 

Attest:

3L

When: B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
January 27, 2009

ATTACHMENT #1

10

Cook County Department of Public Health

Cook Count};r Health 8. Hospitals System
(formerly Cook County Bureau ol Health Sunless]

Todd H. Su'oger - President Health System Board Members

Cool-r. Count].r Board of Commissioners

Warren L. Bart: I?Chairman
Cook County Health 3: Hospitals System

Jorge Ramirez . Vice Ouirrmn
Cook Clout-In.r Health 5t Hospitals Sprain

David R. Small, FACHE 'Interim CEO
Cook Countht-aith 8-:Hospitals System

 

Dr. David A. Ansell
Commissionerjenyiiutlcr
David N. Csrvalho
Quin IL Golden
Benn Greenspan
Sr. Sheila Lane
Dr. Luis R. Mr?oz
Heather E. O'Donnell
Andrea Zopp

1010 Lake Street, Suite 300

Oak Park. Illinois 60301

Telephone Q03) 492+2000
TDD tron-192.2002

Stephen A. Martin, In, M.P.H.

Chief Operating Officer
MEMORANDUM
DATE: JANUARY 27, 2009' .
TO: DAVID ANSELL, (QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE CONIMITTEE CHAIRMAN)
CC: QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DAVID SMALL (COO)
FROM: DR. STEPHEN MARTIN
RE: CASE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM SERVICE REDUCTION UPDATE REPORT

Below please ?nd an update on the case management program service reduction initiative:
Familv Case Management (FCMI Program Transfer Status

I - continues prenatal intake including WIC certification, enrollment in Medicaid Presumptive Eligibility (MPE),
completion of 707G (IDI-IS) prenatal risk assessment, referral to prenatal care providers, and referral to FCM agency
based on zip codes provided by Illinois Department of Human Services (IDHS). From November 20, 2008 through
January 20, 2009, a total of 393 prenatal intakes were completed.

- continues to provide case management services as part of its statutory obligations to clients thmugh the APORS
[Adverse Pregnancy Outcome Reporting System?-IRIF (High Risk Infant Follow-up) program. The caseload for
APORSIHRIF as of 1213112008 was 2270.

- Negotiations are in process with Aunt Martha?s Youth Services to co-locate a FCM case manager at selective
Health and Hospital System sites. AMYS is assigned several communities in the south suburban region for case
management services. In addition to providing FCM services, AMYS will provide enrollment for the All Kids and
Illinois Healthy Women programs regardless of the source of the client?s primary medical care.

1??thme

We Bring HealthCARE to Your Community

11

FIGURE 1. Cook County Department of Public Health

While the Cook County Department of Public Health has taken the position that the Family Case Management
Program (FCM) needs to be transitioned by the Illinois Department of Human Services to community based organizations
and federally quali?ed health centers case management services will continue to be provided to
populations at highest medical risk.

Case Management Prog?ams
The following case management programs will continue to be provided by to suburban Cook County residents in

state ?scal year (SFY) 09:

a High Risk Infant Follow-up (HRIF) - Followvup of infants identi?ed through APORS (Adverse Pregnancy Outcome
Reporting System) including developmental and physical assessment and referral of high risk infants up to two (2) years
of age by a public health nurse. This program is restricted to local health departments.

a Igrgeted Intensive PrenagglCase Manna. ement (TIP) Intensive case management program with incentives for
pregnant women in the communities of Bellwood, Harvey, and Maywood.

Subseguent Pregnancv Prevention Social support service program for adolescents in Harvey and Markham
who have had one prior pregnancy with the ?goal? to delay a subsequent pregnancy. Program activities include group

discussion, home visits, and educational outings.

- Healthv Families Illinois (I-IFI) Intensive case managemenb?home visiting program for a small caseload of families
identi?ed at high risk for child abuse and/or neglect in the communities of Cicero, Harvey, Maywood, and Robbins.?
Program is modeled on the national initiative Healthy Families America. -

- Genetics Case management program to ensure that impacted by genetic conditions receive primary
health care, supportive services, screening, and education to reduce the impact. Infants are enrolled in HRJF.

Perinatal Hepatitis Case management program to ensure that infants born to Hepatitis 13 positive women receive
appropriate intervention and vaccination to prevent complications. Infants are enrolled in HRIF.

0 ng?? Case management program for lead exposed (poisoned) children identi?ed by the Illinois Department of Public
Health to limit the negative effects of elevated lead. Follow-up includes home assessment, education of care providers,
referral for primary health care including treatment, developmental assessment and referral for Early Intervention (El)
services, and tracking of blood lead levels to ensure adequate treatment. If the childfinfant is under the age of 2 years, they
are enrolled in HRIF. -

In Newborn Hearing Screening Case management program to ensure that infants complete the mandated newborn
hearing evaluation and infants with abnormal results receive early intervention and treatment. Infants with abnormal
screening tests are enrolled in HRJF. Mandated by state statute to be provided by local health departments.

- Congenital Svghili Case management services are provided to infants diagnosed with syphilis at birth (suspect or
con?rmed) to ensure that repeat RPR titers are done, document successful treatment, and provide education regarding
syphilis. Infants are enrolled in HRIF.

- Sudden Infant Death (SIDS) Follow-up is provided to families with infants that have died of SIDS
(con?rmed or suspect) to ensure that family has social support resources, grief counseling, and primary health care. This
is a mandated program for local health departments.

- Healthv Homes - Personalized health education and remediation products are provided to pregnant women and
families with children at high risk for asthma and other acutei?chronic respiratory conditions within targeted south
suburban communities.

0 Teen Pregnancv Primarv Prevention School based health education program with Hispanic adolescents to
promote healthy lifestyle choices and responsible decision making regarding sexual activity.

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Januaty 27, 2009

ATTACHMENT #2

12

13

Cook County Health 8; Hospitals System
1900 W. Polk Street, Room 220
Chicago, Illinois 60612

 

5215mm Woed'Sme-t. Rm ZIBCltir-Igo. mime: 60612

 

meet-one
David Small Lynda 
minim-Chief Executive Of?cer Director. Research Affair:

Ianauary 13. 2009

To: Maurice Lemon, Medical Director -
From: Lynda Brodsky, Research Affairs 

Re: IRE Use Agreement with UIC

Enclosed is the IRB use agreement we have discussed several times. As far as I can
?gure, it has no ?nancial repercussion at all. I read the agreement and, while I think it is
overkill, there is nothing I cannot live with.

It has been signed by UIC and by Dr. Giordano. Now it must he signed by you.
President Stroger, and it turns out, David OrrE. Last time we Spoke you thought that
perhaps Laura Lechowicz could recommend President Stroger sign it without

having to go through the Board.

Please let me know if there is anything I can do to facilitate this project.

ANITA ALVHQEZ
Morena?

Lynda Brodsky

Director. Research Affairs

 

OFFICE OF THE STATES 
COOK COUNW. 

CATHERINE M. KELLY
Assistant State's Attorney
Transactions And Health Law Section
Direct: 312-603?6634
Fax: 312-603-3000
VJCO

December 22, 2003

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Helttoen Building. Room 213

623' S. Wood Street
Chicago. Illinois 60612

Re: Use Agreement with UIC

Dear Lynda:

14

500 RICHARD J. DNEY CENTER
woo:
AREA 31 2603-54110

Enclosed please ?nd three originals of the IRS Use Agreement between The Board of Trustees of the
University of Illinois and Cook County?? he Cook County Health and Hospitals Systems. The
originals have been executed by UIC. Please ensure that all three of the originals are signed by our

representatives as well.

Please also ?nd a letter from attorney requesting that one fully executed original is returned to
her at the completion ofour process.

Should you have any questions. please feel free to call me.

Enclosures

Very truly yours.
Anita Alvarez
States Attorney of Cook County

By: Catherine M. Kelly

we

UNIVERSITY or ILLINOIS
Chimgo II Spring?eld - Urbano-Champaign

Dike of University Counsel 225)
405anistntive Of?ce Building

1. 5'3 West Polk Street

Chiago, Illinois 50512-7123

December 17, 1008

Catherine M. Kelly

hssistant State?s Attorney
anssetions Health Law Section
Cook County State's Attorney Of?ce
500 Daley Center

Chicago, IL 60602

Re: Use Agreement
Deer Cathy.

Enclosed please ?nd three originals of the IRB Use Agreement between The Board of
Trustees of the University of Illinois and Cook Comty, as executed by the University.

Gnu: these agreements have been executed by the Cook County, please return one ?illy
original to my attention. Thank You.

Chen

Unease I Phone (312} 996-7762 - Fax i312i996-6'155
Urban: 255 Henry Administration Building 506 South Wright Street 0 Urban. IL 6130] Phone [217] 333-0563
Sp?ng?eld 0 Public Affairs Center, Room 530, M5663 One university Plaza Spring?eld. ILGZN-I Phone {2173' 316-5634

IRE USE AGREEMENT

The Board oI'Trustees of the University ofillineis
And COOK. COUNTY

The Institutional Review Board Use Agreement (this "Agreement?}. effective on the date last
sig1ed below (?Effective Date"), between the County of Cook. a body politic and
cuporate, (hereinafter ?County?l through its Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(hereinafter ?System"} and The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois (the ?University?U.
onbehalf of the University of Illinois at Chicago sets forth the terms and conditions
unier which County may utilize Institutional Review Board #3 at UIC as the local
insitutional review board of record providing facilitated review for Children's Oncology Group
clinical research studies being conducted at County using human research subjects
approved by the National Cancer Institute's Pediatric Central Institutional Review Board 

IRB 
I. OPERATIONS

1. Term. The term of this Agreement shall be for a period of one (1) year (?Initial Tenn?) ?'om
the Effective Date, unless earlier terminated as provided herein. Thereafter, this Agreement
shall automatically renew for successive one (1) year terms unless notice to terminate is
provided no less than ninety (90} days before the end of the Initial Term. At any time
subsequent to the Initial Term. the parties shall each have the right to terminate this
Agreement without cause and without penalty upon thirty (30} days prior written notice.

2. Management. The UIC IRE is administered by the Of?ce for the Protection of
Research Subjects at UIC The Director of OPRS shall be County?s point of
contact with respect to the performance of this Agreement by the University. Lisa Giordano,
Mil. her designee or her appointed successor shall be the University?s point of contact with
respect to the perfon-nance of this Agreement by County.

3. Review Criteria. The UIC shall serve as the local IRE of Record for COG clinical
research studies using human research subjects approved by the NCI performed by
County employees at County (the ?Research"). The UIC IRB shall provide facilitated review
of such Research as County may submit under this Agreement to assure compliance with all
applicable state and local laws, and also the human subjects' policies and procedures of
County, including requirements set forth by County?s Of?ce of Human Research Protections
approved Federalwide Assurance applicable to the Research. County
acknowledges and agrees that subsequent to any Research being reviewed and approved by
the UIC IRE. if the applicable institutional review board of County reviewing the Research
(the ?County modi?es any aspect of such Research prior to its commencement at
County. such modi?cations shall be submitted to the UIC IRE for review and approval prior

to its commencement. The University shall maintain a Federalwide Assurance with OHRP 

with respect to the UIC IRB. 

16

4. Compliance. County shall be responsible for ensuring the safe and appropriate performance
of the Research and the protection of human research subjects at County. This includes, but
is not limited to, monitoring the performance of any Research at County, causing County?s
principal investigators and other research personnel to abide by UIC IRB's decisions and
authority 1with respect to such Research as well as compliance with County?s OHRP
approved FWA, applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. including. but not
limited to the ?The Standards for Privacy of Individual Identi?able Health Information" {45
CFR. Parts 160, 162 and 164) regulations Regulations?). and immediately reporting
to UIC IRB of any protocol violations or serious adverse events with respect to such
Research. County will designate the UIC IRE on its OHRP approved FWA. County shall
provide a copy of its ?Research Conduct Policy" and any other applicable policies related to
human subject research at County, and any amendments thereto, to the UIC and County
Principal Investigators. The University shall comply with the terms of the University?s
OHRP approved FWA for the UIC and applicable federal and state laws. rules and
regulations, including. but not limited to. HIPAA regulations.

. Meeting Minutes. Portions of the minutes of the UIC IRE meetings relevant or applicable
to the Research will be made available to County upon request. Portions of the minutes of
the County IRE meetings relevant or applicable to the Research will be made available to
upon request.

. Con?dentiality. Except?to the extent disclosure is compelled by law. for example. under the
US. or Freedom of Information dict1 or by judicial process. all meeting minutes.
protocols, OPRS ?les. Work produot and correspondences and any materials marked
?Cm?dential? and other related materials disclosed by one party to another hereunder
(collectively, "Con?dential Information?) shall be treated as con?dential and not distributed
to persons who are not bound by written con?dentiality agreements to one of the Parties. lfa
party hereto receives a request for disclosure for any Con?dential Information. such party
shall provide notice of such request to the other party. The party required to
disclose Con?dential Information shall only disclose such Con?dential Information as
advised by its legal counsel as legally required.

. Training. County investigators and key research personnel shall ful?ll County training
requirements and provide documentation of such training, which shall be suf?cient to meet
the research requirements of UIC, before participating in any Research and County shall be
responsible for assuring such ful?llment. The University shall cause UIC to provide training
and continuing education to Principal Investigators eligible to conduct Research at County.
No Research protocol will be accepted for review by the University until the University is
assured that the Principal Investigator and key research personnel has satis?ed County?s
training requirements.

HIPAA The University and County shall each be responsible for assuring the
compliance of its own employees and research under the ?The Standards for Privacy of
Individual Identifiable Health Information? (45 CFR Parts 160. 162 and 154) regulations
Regulations") and other applicable privacy regulations. County retains sole
responsibility for reviewing and granting a HIPAA waiver or alteration when one is

17

requested. The UIC IRE can make a determination regarding tlte waiver or alteration, but
only County has authority for making a ?nal decision to grant the appropriate HIPAA waiver
or alteration on behalf of the covered entity, and the County shall serve as the Privacy
Board (as de?ned under the HIPAA Regulations) for the Research.

. Conflict of Interest. County will be responsible for the identi?cation and management of all
con?ict of interest issues, real or perceived, with regards to the Research. Any disclosure
and management of con?ict of interest issues and all correspondences relating thereto shall
be prOvidcd to the UIC as as practicable. County is responsible for the
disclosure of its ?Conflict of Interest Policy? and any amendments thereto to UIC IRE.

II. DOCUMENT RETENTION

. The University shall retain all documents in connection with the review of any Research in
accordance with its document retention policies and applicable federal and state laws,
regulations and mics, and make such documents available to County upon its written request.

. County shall retain copies of all submitted Research protocols, a copy of UIC IRB and
County approved consent documents, and all related correspondences and
documentation, including. but not limited to, source documents such as patient medical
records for the Research in accordance with its documentation retention policies and
applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations. County will make such documents
available to UIC Upon its Written request.

REPORTING

. The University and County shall each report to the other immediately in writing any
information regarding non-compliance in the Research. of which party becomes aware.
Reports made by the University to County regarding such non-compliance in the Research
shall be made to the Director of Human Subjects Protection at County. Reports made by
County to the University regarding such non-compliance or violation in the Research shall be
made to the Director of OPRS at UIC. As used in this Article non-compliance includes,
but is not limited to, the breach of any law, regulation or institutional policy relating to
research, including but not limited to, human subject protection. conflict of interest, or breach
of research integrity.

. The University and County shall report to the other immediately if any governmental or
private oversight agency or organization initiates any action regarding non-compliance in any
Research. Of?cial responses to such alleged violations or misconduct will be led by and
coordinated by County and the University (through UIC) jointly with the assistance and full
cooperation of each party. In connection with any external review, inquiry, audit or any
other action regarding non-compliance by any govenuncntal or private oversight entity, the
University and County will each make their respective Research records and any relevant
documentation available to each other and to such entities. Each party shall cooperate with
the other in good faith in any such review, inquiry. audit or other action and shall make their

18

pemonnel available to the other to the extent reasonably necessary and not unduly disruptive
to the day to day business activities of such personnel.

3. The University and County shall immediately report to each other any unanticipated problem
involving risks to subjects or others (UPIRSOs), any complaints from study subjects. serious
adverse events (whether expected or unexpected, whether related or unrelated to research].
the suspension or termination of' activities with respect to any Research, or any other major
protocol violations of which it becomes aware involving any Research. This obligation to
report is in addition to, and in no way replaces. the Principal Investigator's duty to report
adverse events. UPIRSOs or protocol violations as required by any contract, law. regulation.
or policy. County shall be responsible for the enforcement of the response and detemrination
of the UH: IRE with respect to any such problems. complaints. serious advents. or any other
protocol violations.

4. On an annual basis, the University shall report to County the status and dispositionof all
Research.

IV. TERMINATION

Either party may terminate this Agreement immediately upon notice to the other party. if such
party violates federal or state law. the respective institutional policies relating to research. or
otherwise materially breaches this Agreement. and fails to cure such violation or breach after
having received written notice of such breach hour the other party and afforded thirty (30) days
?rm the date of such notice to cure such breach or violation. In the alternative to termination.
the non-breaching party shall have the sole discretion to continue this Agreement under such
terms and conditions as it may ?nd to be reasonably necessary to assure compliance with federal
and state law. In the event that this Agreement is terminated. both parties will work in good faith
to transfer all current UIC IRE approved Research to another institutional review board of
record. In no event shall either party take any action which could harm or put at risk of harm any
human research subjects. - I

V. LIABILITY AND INSURANCE

Neither party to this Agreement shall be liable for any negligent or wrong?rl act chargeable to
the other unless such liability is imposed by a court of competent jurisdiction. This Agreement
shall not be construed as seeking to either enlarge or diminish any obligation or duty owed by
one party against the other or against third parties. In the event of a claim for any wrong?rl or
negligent act, each party shall bear the cost of its ovvrr defense. The parties shall each maintain
general and professional liability insurance covering their employees with minimum coverage
levels of 5 1,000,000 per occurrence and 53.000.000 annual aggregate. The University shall also
maintain a directors and of?cers liability policy. and (2) an errors and omissions policy.
Minimum coverage levels on each of the preceding policies shall he 51.000.000 per occurrence
and 53.000.000 annual aggregate. Such insurance coverage may be either ?-om a commercial
carrier or reasonable self-insurance mechanism and veri?cation will he provided upon request.

19

VI. MISCELLANEOUS

Independent Contractor Relationship. The Parties are each an independent contractor and
not an agent or employee of the other. Neither party shall have the authority to maite any
representations or commitments of any kind that are binding on the other party, except as
may be provided for in this Agreement or authorized by the other party in writing.

Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by Illinois law.

. Amendment and Waiver. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement
shall be binding on either Party unless consented to in writing by both. No waiver of any
provision of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions, nor shall any
waiver constitute a continuing waiver so as to impair either Party's rights, unless otherwise
expressly provided in writing. 

. Severability. If any provision is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, illegal. or unenforceable in any respect, such determination shall not impair or affect
the validity, legality, or enforceability of the remaining provisions.

. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with its attachments, if any, constitutes the
entire agreement between the Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all
prior agreements, negotiations and discussions, whether written or oral. There are no
conditions, agreements, representations, warranties or other provisions relating to the
subject matter except as provided herein. Each party shall retain and make available to the
United States Department of Health and Human Services a fully executed copy of this
Agreement.

. Survival. Article 1 Section I5, Article Article Sections to 3 inclusive, Article IV,
. Article and this Article VI shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.

. Debarment. Each party hereto represent to the other that neither it nor any of its trustees.

of?cers, directors, employees or agents have been debarred, suspended or excluded from
participation in any state or federal healthcare program including, without limitation.
Medicare, Medicaid or Tricare. Each party further represents that in the event it or any of its
trustees, of?cers, directors, emPloyees or agents are excluded from participation in a state or
federal healthoare reimbursement program, unless such person is terminated from the entity
or is rub longer af?liated with the entity, this Agreement may be terminated immediately
upon written notice by the other party.

. Notices. All notices, consents and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and
shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered by hand to: on the next
business day if sent by Federal Express or a similar overnight courier to: ?ve days after
being deposited in any U.S. post of?ce enclosed in a postage prepaid, registered or certi?ed
envelope addressed to; or when successfully transmitted by telecopicr (with a continuing
copy of such communication to be sent as provided in clauses or to) above) to. the
party for whom intended, at the address or telccopicr number for such party set forth below
(or at such other address or teleeopier number for a party as shall be speci?ed by like

20

notice):
To the University:

University of Illinois at Chicago

Of?ce of Protection of Research Subjects
Attention: Director

203 AOB, MC 5'12

173? West Polk Street

Chicago, Illinois 60612

Telecopier: 2) 413-2929

To County:

Lisa Giordano, MD, or her designee
Division of Pediatric Hematologyt?Oncology
Strogcr Hospital of Cook County

1900 West Polk Street. 11'? Floor

Chicago. Illinois 60612

9. Interpretation. The parties understand and acknowledge that they have each been
represented by (or have had the opportunity to he represented by} counsel in connection with
the preparation. execution and delivery of this Agreement. This Agreement shall not be
construed against any party for having drafted it.

10. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and each
such counterpart hereof shall be deemed to he an original instrumont, but all such
counterparts together shall constitute but one agreement.

11. Headings. The headings of the sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience of
reference only and shall not he considered a part thereof.

[Remainder of page intentionally left blank]

22

Hi WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their dutyr
authorized representatives.

The Board of Trustees of the University

(Illinois
idem-Mt I 

Walter K. Knorr, Comptroller Date

I as To some
Thom retary Date 
areas or mm. oouttsa.

Cook County Cook County Health and
Hospitals System

 

Todd Stranger Date
President, Cook County Board of
Commissioners

 

David Orr Date
Clerk of Cook County

Acknowledged By:

Maurice Lemon, M. D.
Chief Medical Of?cer,
Stroger Hospital

  

Lisa Giordano, MD. Date
Division ofPediau-ie
HematologinJncoiogy.

Stroger Hosyital

