July 23, 2009
NOTICE
There will be a meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System on Tuesday, July 28, 2009 at the hour of 12:00 P.M. to 2:00 P.M. at
Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison, in the Fifth Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the
following:
1.

Call to Order and Roll Call

2.

Public Comments

3.

Review and accept minutes of the meeting of June 17, 2009

4.

Receive quarterly quality report from the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center…………… Dr. D. Barker

5.

Receive status report on draft recommendations for new System quality structure ……..Dr. J. Raba

6.

Review and approve the following Sub-Agreements (no fiscal impact)
a. Sub-Agreement with West Suburban Hospital – JSH EM residents to rotate to WSH in the ED.
b. Sub-Agreement with UIC– Bilateral agreement allowing UIC residents to rotate in toxicology at
JSH, and JSH residents to rotate at UIC
c. Sub-Agreement with Jackson Park Hospital – JPH residents rotate at JSH on the endocrine service.
d. Sub-Agreement with Children’s Memorial Hospital – JSH pediatric residents receive training in
Child Protective Services at CMH.
e. Sub-Agreement with Children’s Memorial Hospital - JSH urology residents get experience in
pediatric urology
f. Sub-Agreement with Children’s Memorial Hospital - JSH EM residents get experience with
pediatric patients in CMH’s Emergency Room.
g. Sub-Agreement with Provident –JSH urology residents get greater exposure to urologic surgery by
rotating to Provident.
h. Sub-Agreement with Northwestern – Bilateral agreement allowing JSH Oral surgery residents to
rotate at Northwestern, and Northwestern residents to rotate at JSH.
i. Sub-Agreement with Rush – Their residents rotate in trauma at JSH.
j. Sub-Agreement with Rush – Rush psychiatry residents rotate in the JSH clinic and ER, seeing
psychiatric patients.
k. Sub-Agreement with University of Chicago - JSH EM residents get experience with pediatric
patients at U of C’s Children’s hospital.
l. Sub-Agreement with Our Lady of the Resurrection - Their residents rotate on JSH’s toxicology
service.

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Notice
Meeting of July 28, 2009
Page 2
Approve request to enter into and execute an agreement with the
Metropolitan Chicago Breast Cancer Task Force, to participate in the Chicago
Breast Cancer Quality Consortium

7.

8.

Receive update on the issue of Smoke-free campuses……………………………….….. Dr. D. Cohen

9.

Receive update on Laboratory ………………………….................................................. J. Brown
surveys at Stroger Hospital

10.

Follow up item for August 19th meeting:
Approval of affiliates’ annual performance improvement plans
CLOSED SESSION

11.

Receive report on status of preparations for Cermak re-accreditation……………… ...... Dr. A. Hart

12.

Receive report of the Joint Conference Committee of Provident………………..……… Dr. A. Hamb
Hospital for the meeting of April 8, 2009

13.

Receive reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees from ………………...
Oak Forest, Provident and Stroger Hospitals

14.

Receive and approve Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes

15.






Dr. H. Abiad
Dr. M. Krause
Dr. D. Goldberg

Receive reports on the following:
Any Sentinel Events or Near Misses
Any Patient Grievance Reports
Update on “never” events
Report on Recent Regulatory Visits
OPEN SESSION

16.

Report any actions from Closed Session

17.

Adjournment

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Matthew B. DeLeon
Secretary to the Board
Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Chairman:
Ansell
Members:
Butler and Muñoz

 