Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System held Friday, March 23, 2012 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Lyne called the meeting to order at approximately 7:35 A.M.; however, a quorum was not present.
The Committee continued to receive information until approximately 7:55 A.M.; at this time, a quorum was
reached and the Committee began to consider the items presented.
Present:

Chairman Sister Sheila Lyne and Directors David Carvalho and Jorge Ramirez (3)
Board Chairman Warren L. Batts (ex-officio) and Director Hon. Jerry Butler

Absent:

Directors Quin R. Golden and Ruth M. Rothstein (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Maureen O’Donnell – System Interim Chief Human
Resource Officer and Chief, Cook County Bureau
of Human Resources
Gladys Lopez – System Interim Director of Human
Resources
Lisa Meador –Deputy Chief of Labor Relations, Cook
County Bureau of Human Resources

II.

Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Carol Schneider – System Chief Operating Officer

Public Speakers
Chairman Lyne asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speakers:
1.
2.

III.

George Blakemore
Rochelle Lowe

Concerned Citizen
Representative, National Nurses Organizing Committee (NNOC)

**Report from System Human Resources Department (Attachment #1)
A. Report from Interim Director of Human Resources
Gladys Lopez, System Interim Director of Human Resources, provided an update on the following subjects:
Vacancy Approvals – Position Justification Improvements; CCHHS Vacancy Approval Process; and Position
Justification Committee (PJC) Review and Recruiting Process. The Committee reviewed and discussed the
information.
Director Carvalho inquired regarding the type of information or documentation that is communicated to the
Position Justification Committee, in order to justify the filling of a position. For vacancies that are due to
resignation or retirement, Ms. Lopez stated that the hiring manager completes the required paperwork and
obtains leadership approval (from affiliate Chief Operating Officer); the hiring manager then forwards that
documentation to the PJC, and the request is included in the PJC tracker. If it is for a vacancy for a newlycreated position, the hiring manager goes through the same steps, with the additional step that senior leadership
approval is required for that vacancy; that documentation then goes to the PJC, as well.

Page 1 of 11

 Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
Friday, March 23, 2012
Page 2

III.

**Report from System Human Resources Department
A.

Report from Interim Director of Human Resources (continued)

The PJC meets every other week; at these meetings, all of the submitted requests are reviewed. The PJC
assesses the information, based on organizational operational needs, and determines which positions will be
submitted forward for recruiting purposes. Carol Schneider, System Chief Operating Officer, provided
additional information. She stated that the PJC reviews how these positions that have received approval from
the operating unit fit against the System’s key priorities. For example, the System’s key priorities are currently
around billing, hiring, patient care and filling inpatient bed needs. The PJC takes those requests into
consideration and looks at how many positions that can be filled at a given time, based on the Human Resources
capacity.
Director Carvalho inquired regarding whose responsibility it is to draft the minimum qualifications for a
position. Ms. Lopez responded that this is done at the County’s Bureau of Human Resources; however, she
indicated that the drafted minimum qualifications go back to the hiring manager for their review. She added
that the minimum qualifications are based on the position’s job description,which is drafted at the System.
Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, indicated that part of the problem is that the System does not have a job
library. A job library would contain documentation, including job descriptions and minimum and preferred
qualifications, for every type of position; he added that this would provide a level of uniformity and consistency.
Board Chairman Batts inquired regarding how long the hiring process takes, from the time the manager needs a
position filled, to the time a person is in the position. Ms. Lopez responded that this timeframe has not yet been
identified; however, she noted that currently, Human Resources is working on the filling of critical clinical
positions and critical hires, as well as clean-up from some positions that were posted over the last few months.
She noted that the Human Resources team is currently working on filling as many as one hundred to two
hundred vacancies. Dr. Raju stated that management is trying to standardize as much as possible, and trying to
make sure that everything is being done correctly.
Board Chairman Batts inquired regarding how many people have been hired as of December 1st. Ms. Lopez
indicated that she did not have that information, but will provide it following the meeting.  
IV.

Action Items
A. Proposed collective bargaining agreement with the Cook County Pharmacy Association,
Chicago
Joint Board, Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, AFL-CIO-CLC Local 200 (RWDSU
Local 200) representing the Health and Hospitals System Administrative Assistants IIIs and IVs
This item will be presented to the Board of Directors for consideration and approval on March 29, 2012.
B. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Session Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Proposed salary offers
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters
**Report from System Human Resources Department
Page 2 of 11

 Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
Friday, March 23, 2012
Page 3
V.

Closed Session Items (continued)

Director Ramirez, seconded by Director Carvalho, moved to recess the regular session
and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which permits closed meetings for consideration of
“the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or
against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2),
regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or
their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes
of employees,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against,
affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court
or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call
was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Lyne and Directors Carvalho and Ramirez (3)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Directors Golden and Ramirez (2)

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee convened into closed
session.
Chairman Lyne declared that the closed session was adjourned.
reconvened into regular session.

VI.

The Committee

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Lyne declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Sister Sheila Lyne, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
Page 3 of 11

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting
March 23, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 4 of 11

 Human Resources Committee
Meeting
March 23,
23 2012

CCHHS – Strengthening Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

Page 5 of 11

 Vacancy Approvals
• Requirements were not always complied with
q
y
p
• Eliminated 5‐page Position Justification 
Paperwork
• Identified and communicated to management 
what is required:
what is required:
1. Request to Hire
2. Job Description
3. Shakman Certification
2
Page 6 of 11

 • Position Justification Improvements
1. Vacancies due to resignation or retirement
a. Hiring Manager completes required paperwork
b. Hiring Manager obtains Affiliate Leadership / COO approval
c. Hiring Manager forwards to Position Justification  Committee 
(PJC) t i l d
(PJC) to include on the tracker
th t k
2
2.

Vacancies due to a newly created position
Vacancies
due to a newly created position
a. Hiring Manager completes required paperwork
b. Hiring Manager obtains Affiliate Leadership / COO approval
g
g
p/
pp
c. Hiring Manager obtains appropriate C‐Suite approval
d. Hiring Manager forwards to PJC to include on the tracker
3
Page 7 of 11

  

VACANCY APPROVAL PROCESS

 

 

 

 

Request to Hire'

f?

 

 

1F

 

  
        

 

 

 

 

lelng Manager
WBUIE Fill a Vacancy Job Desmiption .. Affiliate COG PJC Plaoes the Position
(Resignation. Retirement. Approval on the Tracker
etc]



 

Shakrnan
Certi?cation Folrn



 

 

 

 

1F

 

 

 

Request to Hire



 

  
 
   
   

   
 

  

    

Hiring Manager
Wants to Fill a Vacancy
(New Position}

CID-GI
Approval

  
 

PJC Plaoes the Posltlon
on the Tracker

    
 

Job Description



System CFSuite
Approval

 

   

 

Shakn'lan
Certi?cation Form 



 

 

 

 

?Hiring Manager is responsible for working with Budget to ensure the position is funded in the BR and in FMIS.

Page 8 of 11

PJC Review & Recruiting
• PJC reviews all approved vacancies 
• PJC identifies critical positions
PJC identifies critical positions
• The PJC‐identified critical positions are submitted to HR to 
begin the recruiting process
• HR sends the Request to Hire packet (Request to Hire form, 
Job Description and Shakman Certification form) to County 
Bureau of HR for posting
Bureau of HR for posting
• County Bureau of HR reviews the Request to Hire packet and 
creates a draft:
1. Taleo Job Posting; and
2. Minimum Qualification (MQ) questions and preferred 
Qualification (PQ) questions
Qualification (PQ) questions
5
Page 9 of 11

 • Posting
Posting, MQs & PQs are sent to the Hiring Manager for review, 
MQs & PQs are sent to the Hiring Manager for review
editing and approval
• After the final and approved Posting, MQs and PQs are 
returned to the County Bureau of HR, the position is ready to 
be posted in Taleo
• County Bureau of HR posts the position in Taleo
County Bureau of HR posts the position in Taleo
• An up‐to‐date job description is critical to creating a valid 
p
j
p
g
posting in Taleo along with appropriate MQs and PQs
• We are building our Taleo library of Postings and 
corresponding MQs and PQs ith each ne posting
corresponding MQs and PQs with each new posting

6
Page 10 of 11

  

 

PJC REVIEW AND RECRUITING PROCESS

 

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
   
 

 

 

 

 

Talee Posting
1: cg HR ?3ng a 
PJG Reviews Vacancies a. ma. Requeei 1'3 Hire sende Hiring iring Manage! Peei?en Pneted in
Iden?fiee Critical Fashions *0 Pathei 16+ C3 HR Manager Draft Rewm. Tam


 

 

 

 

 

Request to Hire Ferrn
Jet: Description

Sirekman Certi?ea?en Farm

 

 

Page11of11

 

 

