AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System will meet on Friday, May 22,
2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room,
Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Item #1:

Call of the Meeting
Roll Call.

Item #2:

Public Comments

Item #3:

Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board
of Directors of Friday, April 24, 2009

Item #4:

Approval of the minutes of the special meeting of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System Board of Directors of Saturday, May 16, 2009

Item #5:

Report from System Board Chairman Warren L. Batts

Item #6:

Report from the System Chief Executive Officer William Foley

Item #7:

Committee Reports
Quality and Patient Safety Committee…………...………….Meeting of 4-28-09*
* note: Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes, as
amended, were approved by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee at
this meeting.
Finance Committee………………….……………………….Meeting of 4-30-09*
* note: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended, were approved by
the Finance Committee at this meeting.
Human Resources Committee……………………….………Meeting of 5-01-09
Audit and Compliance Committee………………….……… Meeting of 5-14-09
Finance Committee………………….……………………….Meeting of 5-15-09*
* note: the following were approved by the Finance Committee at this
meeting: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended; a proposal for
ERP acquisition; and a real estate matter.

 AGENDA
Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Friday, May 22, 2009
Page 2

Item #8:

Review and approve request to enter into and execute contract with Navigant Consulting for
turnaround assessment and consulting services

Item #9:

Request for authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into and execute contract
Review and approve request for authorization for the Purchasing Agent to enter into and
execute contract with AT & T Corporation, to provide video conference equipment, as well as
associated services, including configuration, installation, implementation, training and
maintenance services, for the Cook County Department of Public Health to communicate
during normal and emergency operations with those governmental and non-governmental
offices inside and outside County government.

Item #10:

Request to Apply for Grant
Request from the Cook County Department of Public Health for authorization to apply for a
grant from the National Association of County & City Health Officials (NACCHO), in the
amount of $400,000.00, to work in collaboration with the Public Health Institute of
Metropolitan Chicago, a not for profit organization with expertise in the administration of
grants involving public health projects, and with the University of Illinois at Chicago School of
Public Health (UICSPH).

Item #11:

Report from CCHHS Ad Hoc Working Group on Medical School Relationships

Item #12:

Report from CCHHS Ad Hoc Working Group on Legislative Communications

Item #13:

Update from Ad Hoc Strategic Planning Committee

Item #14:

Discussion of Personnel Matters
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception
to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which states: “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or
legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its
validity.”

Item #15:

Adjournment
Motion to adjourn.
*****

 