January 6, 2009
NOTICE
There will be a meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System on Friday, January 9, 2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901
W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Item #1

Update and discussion of pending information requests.

Item #2

Update on responses to search firm RFP.

Item #3

Update on CORE response to former employee allegations.
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception to
the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which states: “The appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or
legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity.”

Item #4

Discussion of Personnel Matters.
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception to
the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which states: “The appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or
legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity.”

Item #5

Update on labor negotiations.
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception to
the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), which states: “Collective negotiating matters between
the public body and its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary
schedules for one or more classes of employees.”

 Human Resources Committee Notice
Meeting of January 9, 2009
Page 2

Item #6

Recruitment of Permanent Chief Executive Officer for the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception to
the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), which states: “The recruitment, credentialing,
discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or
other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.”

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Matthew B. DeLeon
Secretary to the Board

Human Resources Committee
Chairman:
Zopp
Members:
Board Chairman Batts (Ex-Officio) and
Directors Carvalho, Golden, Lyne and Ramirez

 