Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System held Friday, November 16, 2012 at the hour of 9:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the
Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Golden called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Quin R. Golden and Directors Jerry Butler and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (3)
Board Chairman David Carvalho (ex-officio)

Absent:

Directors Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD and Jorge Ramirez (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Maureen O’Donnell – System Interim Chief Human
Resource Officer and Chief, Cook County Bureau
of Human Resources
Gladys Lopez – System Interim Director of Human
Resources

II.

Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board

Public Speakers
Chairman Golden asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speakers:
1.
2.
3.

III.

George Blakemore
Newworld Eboigbe
Francesca Takpor

Concerned Citizen
Nurse, Cermak Health Services of Cook County
Nurse, Cermak Health Services of Cook County

**Report from System Human Resources Department
A. Report from Interim Director of Human Resources (Attachment #1)
i.
Expedited hiring process

 

Gladys Lopez, System Interim Director of Human Resources, provided an update on the following subjects:
Recruiting Update; Internal Candidates / Promotions; Vacancies Filled Through November 5, 2012; Three (3)
Major CCHHS Critical Hiring Projects; Joint Commission Survey – Human Resources Standards; and Update on
Lunch & Learn Sessions. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, noted that he has met with the President and staff from the County’s
Bureau of Human Resources and Department of Budget and Management Services, regarding recruitment and
hiring initiatives in order to prepare for the Waiver implementation and other important projects. He stated that
the President has asked the System’s administration to produce a list and a plan; this was done, and it is being
managed by David LeBreton, Chief Performance Officer. There is a regular meeting held with the President
every week to update on the status of various initiatives; he noted that there is a lot of work going on at the
System and the County to make this happen in a very expedited manner.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, November 16, 2012
Page 2

III.

**Report from System Human Resources Department
A.

Report from Interim Director of Human Resources (continued)

Ms. Lopez stated that a meeting was held last week with representatives from the Office of the Cook County
Compliance Administrator regarding the critical hiring projects, in order to discuss being given a little more
flexibility in hiring for these projects; she stated that the representatives were very agreeable and provided a
recommendation, as well. Dr. Raju noted that staff from the Office of the Cook County Compliance
Administrator is really helping to get this process going.
In addition, Dr. Raju stated that the System has benefited from the expertise of outside help. As the System is
going through the transformation process, a lot of things need to happen, so the Civic Consulting Alliance stepped
in and secured some pro-bono help from outside consultants; these consultants are basically stationed here for the
next 3-4 months, and will be helping to develop measurements, processes, IT infrastructure, etc., free of charge.
They will also be helping the System to recruit talented individuals. One of the pro-bono consultants, Shruti
Jayaraman, spends all of her time at the System trying to garner more pro-bono support. Additionally, Zeno
Group, a public relations firm, is helping the System with all of the outreach activities.
Board Chairman Carvalho referenced a contractual item presented at the Finance Committee Meeting earlier that
day; this request was for a contract extension for the provision of services for the position of Interim Director of
Safety and Security. Using that position as an example, he requested that Ms. Lopez elaborate further on the plans
for recruitment for the positions such as this, and for those positions related to the critical hiring projects. Ms.
Lopez stated that discussions have been held on the subject of the System’s needs for sourcing, advertising and
marketing resources; this is one of the initiatives that is embedded in the organizational project plan. She added
that Ms. Jayaraman and her team have been shadowing System staff, because once the implementation has been
completed, there needs to be a plan to sustain it going forward. With regard to the specific position to which
Board Chairman Carvalho referred, Ms. Lopez noted that there were recent changes to the job description; this is
one of the positions on the direct appointment list, so it is expected to be filled relatively soon.
Elizabeth Reidy, System General Counsel, informed the Committee that, with regard to the three (3) initiatives
and efforts to on-board staff at a more streamlined pace, the administration will be doing some emergency
purchases with regard to temporary services for clerical work. As these initiatives are expected to increase the
workload for staff in departments such as Employee Health Services (EHS) and the Credentialing office, there is a
need for additional clerical services, and possibly the need for medical assistants for EHS. The administration
also plans to use or amend the current Maxim contract to bring in some staff to assist in the Human Resources
Department for validation activities. She stated that this subject has been discussed with representatives from the
Office of the Cook County Compliance Administrator; she stated that they plan to monitor the outside vendors. In
addition, the administration is planning an emergency purchase for sourcing; this will be a marketing effort to
broadcast that the System has these position openings and that hiring is now taking place. She added that, in very
limited instances, sourcing may be done to identify candidates in certain hard-to-fill areas.
Chairman Golden indicated that the Committee plans to receive educational presentations on a variety of subjects
on a regular basis. As the subject of grievances was referenced during the provision of public testimony earlier in
the meeting, she requested that the Committee receive a report on the grievance process and related data as an
educational presentation at an upcoming Committee meeting1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, November 16, 2012
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, September 21, 2012

B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements and Labor-related Matters (Attachment #2)
i.

RWDSU Local 200 (Pharmacists and Pharmacy Technicians) – Collective Bargaining Agreement

ii.

Metropolitan Alliance of Police (MAP 270) (Stroger Hospital Sergeants) – Collective Bargaining
Agreement

iii. Laborers Local 2 and Carpenters Local 13 - Prevailing Rates and Salary Adjustments
iv.

Illinois Licensed Practical Nurses Association (Licensed Practical Nurses) – Salary Schedule and
Wage Adjustments

Action was taken on this item following the adjournment of closed session.
Director Wiese, seconded by Chairman Golden, moved to approve the proposed Collective
Bargaining Agreements and Labor-related matters under Item IV(B). THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V
V.

Closed Session Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters
**Report from System Human Resources Department
**Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements and Labor-related
Matters (see Item IV(B))
Director Butler, seconded by Director Wiese, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which permits closed meetings for consideration of
“the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding
“collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against,
affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting.”

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, November 16, 2012
Page 4

V.

Closed Session Items (continued)

On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Golden and Directors Butler and Wiese (3)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Directors Morris and Ramirez (2)

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Committee convened into closed
session.
Chairman Golden declared that the closed session was adjourned.
reconvened into regular session.

VI.

The Committee

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Golden declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Quin R. Golden, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

1

Follow-up: Committee Education Item for future meeting – Report on Grievance Process and related data. Page 2.

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
November 16, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

 Human Resources Committee
Meeting
November 16, 2012

CCHHS – Strengthening Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

 Recruiting Update
•  A   total   of   294   vacancies   have   been   ﬁlled   
through   November   5,   2012   
   -­‐    12   Re-­‐Hires                  
   -­‐    91   Re-­‐Calls   
   -­‐    63   Internal   Candidates      
   -­‐    128   External   Candidates      

2   

 Internal Candidates / Promotions
•  Clinical   Nurse   I   to   Advanced   PracIce   Nurse   
•  CorrecIonal   Medical   Tech   II   to   Emergency   
Room   Tech   
•  Physical   Therapist   II   to   Physical   Therapist   III   
•  CerIﬁed   Nursing   Assistant   to   Medical   
Assistant   

3   

 ?v'acanoies Filled Through November 5, 2012 Breakdown by Position

 

Candidate Source

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Re-Hire Re-Call Internal External Total
Nurses
APN?Nurse Practitioner 2 2 4
Clinical Case Manager 1 2 3
Clinical Nurse 1 14 45 51]
Clinical Nurse 3 3
Clinical Performance Improvement Analyst 1 1
In-House Ftegistry Nurse 1 3
Nurse Coordinator 1 1
Nurse Epidemiologist 1 1
Registered Nurse 1 1 32 Nurses I
Nurse summer 4 0 er 5 es 
Licensed Practical Nurse 4 4 4 LPNs I
LPNSublmaI 4 4 
Physicians
Attending Physician E- 1 1 13 15
Attending Physician 1 1
Attending Physician 1 1
Attending Physician 1D 1 1
Attending Physician 12 1 2 1 4
Attending Physicain Senior E- 1 2 3
Attending Physicain Senior 1 1
Attending Physician Senior 12 2 2
Consultants {Physicians} 3 3
Correctional 1 1
Divisional Chief of Correctional 1 1
Medical Division Chair 8 1 1
Medical Division Chair 1 1 2
Medical Division Chair 1D 1 1
Medical Division Chair 11 1 1 33 M35 I
Filtration Subtotal 5 26 33

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clinical Support

 

Administrative Aide

 

Administrative Assistant II

 

Administrative Assistant 

 

Administrative Assistant IV

 

Anesthesia Tech

 

Attendant Patient Care

 

Certi?ed Nursing Attendant

 

Dietitian ll

 

Dietitian IV

 

Director of Ambulatory, Specialty and

 

EKG Tech

 

Emergency Response Tech

 

Emergency Room Tech II

 

Health Advocate

 

Health Service Representative

 

Interpreter

 

Laboratory Technician 

 

Medical Assistant

 

Medical Social Worker ll

 

Medical Tech I

 

Operating Room Technician

 

Pathologist Extender

 

Pharmacy Technician

 

Physician Asst. Post Graduate Resident
Director

 

Physical Therapist Ill

 

Respiratory Therapist

 

Respiratory Therapist SupeM'sor

 

Staff Pharmacist

 

Transporter CCH

 

Ward Clerk

 



 

 

 

CC HHS

Other

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accounts Payable Supervisor 1 1
Building Service Worker 20 20
Business Of?ce Supervisor 2 2
Caseworker (MANG) 1 1
Cashier Ill 1 1
Corporate Compliance Of?cer 1 1
CEO Executive Assistant 1 1 2
Chief Medical Information Of?cer 1 1
Clerk 19 7 26
Computer Operator I 1 1
Director of Strategic Sourcing/Contract 1 1
Electrician 1 1
Food Service Worker 1 1
Groundskeeper 1 1
Human Resources Generalist 2 2
Learning Development Assist. 1 1
Operating Engineer 1 1
Pat Access Supervisor,Fin Coun 1 1
Payroll Division Supervisor Ill 1 1
Public Safety Of?cer I 1 1
Receptionist 1 1
Steno IV 1 1 2
Steno 2 2
Supervisor Patient Access-PreRegistration 1 1 73 Other
WSUDW 1 47 17 8 73
Total31% 22% 44%
House Staff
Physician Assistant Training 4 4
Post Graduate Level Physician 8 109 117
Post Graduate Pharmacist (Residents) 2 2
GRAND 8 115 123 123 House Staff
TOTAL VACANCIES 20 so 54 243 417

 

3 Major CCHHS Critical Hiring Projects
ü Cermak (Court Order): 100
ü 1115 Waiver: 255
ü Joint Commission: 75
   
Job   Classiﬁca,on   

Approx.   #   of   
Open   Posi,ons   

Nurses   

150   

Physicians   

   30   

Clinical   Support   

180   

Other   

70   

TOTAL   

430   

This   slide   was   prepared   by   David   LeBreton,   Chief   Performance   Oﬃcer,   Cook   County;   slightly   modiﬁed   by   G.   Lopez.   
7   

 In   order   to   achieve   project   goal,   support   will   be   needed   from   
across   the   organizaIon   

President’s   Oﬃce   

Project
sponsors

Project
management

•  Toni
Preckwinkle,
President

•  David
LeBreton –
Project
management
lead

•  G.A. Finch,
COS

•  Aaron
Galeener –
Project
management

CCHHS   

•  Dr. Ram Raju,
CEO

•  Elizabeth
Reidy, General
Counsel
CCHHS

Human
Resources
•  Maureen
O’Donnell –
Bureau Chief

Technology

Procurement

•  Lydia Murray –
Bureau of
Technology

•  Ivan Samstein
– Deputy CFO

•  Bala Hota –
CIO

•  Gina
Bensenhofer –
CCHHS
Supply Chain

•  Terry Larkin –
Deputy Bureau
Chief

•  Gladys Lopez
– System
Director for HR

In addition to the roles outlined above, other contributions
will be needed
This   slide   was   prepared   by   David   LeBreton,   Chief   Performance   Oﬃcer,   Cook   County   

8   

 Several   working   teams   idenIﬁed   to   address   project   needs   
Team mandate

HR   Processes   

Outreach   

Management   
Processes   

External      Support   /   
Procurement   

Technology   

•  Assess   current   HR   processes   and   determine   
opportuniIes   to   increase   throughput   
•  Manage   and   monitor   ﬂow   from   applicant   to   onboarding   
•  Communicate   hiring   needs   to   external   partners   to   ﬁll   
candidate   pipeline   
•  Coordinate   communicaIon   to   external   stakeholders   
•  IdenIfy   opportuniIes   to   streamline   processes   
•  IdenIfy   and   train   CCHHS   department   hiring   teams   
•  Establish   hiring   protocols   to   ensure   accountability   and   
Imeliness   of   decisions   
•  IdenIfy   processes   eligible   for   external   support   
•  IdenIfy   potenIal   vendors   and   procurement   mechanism   

•  IdenIfy   soluIons   to   ineﬃcient   processes   
•  Work   with   management   and   HR   teams   to   address   
process   problems   

This   slide   was   prepared   by   David   LeBreton,   Chief   Performance   Oﬃcer,   Cook   County   

Team members
Maureen   O’Donnell   
Terry   Larkin   
Gladys   Lopez   
Aaron   Galeener   
   
Dr.   Ram   Raju   
GA   Finch   
Maureen   O’Donnell   
Dr.   Ram   Raju   
Gladys   Lopez   
Elizabeth   Reidy   
Terry   Larkin   
   Maureen   O’Donnell,   Laura   Lechowicz   

Felicione,   Gina   Bensenhofer   Elizabeth   
Reidy,   Shannon   Andrews,   ShruI   
Jayaraman   
   

Barb   Pryor   
Lydia   Murray   
Bala   Hota   
Kim   Velazquez   
9   

 Joint Commission Survey ~
Human Resource Standards
01.02.01   –   Hospital   deﬁnes   staﬀ   qualiﬁcaIons   
01.02.05   –   Hospital   veriﬁes   staﬀ   qualiﬁcaIons   
01.02.07   –   Staﬀ   perform   their   duIes   
01.04.01   –   Hospital   provides   orientaIon   to   staﬀ   
01.05.03   –   Staﬀ   parIcipate   in   ongoing   educaIon   and       
   training   
•  01.06.01   –   Staﬀ   are   competent   to   perform   their   
   responsibiliIes   
•  01.07.01   –   Hospital   evaluates   staﬀ   performance   
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

   
10   

 Collaborative Effort
•  Nursing   Leadership   
   -­‐       Tanda   Russell   and   Antoineee   Williams   
   

•  Nursing   EducaIon   
   -­‐       Cally   McKinney   
   

•  Physicians      
   -­‐       Dr.   Claudia   Fegan,   Dr.   Sharon   Welbel,           
   Dr.   Robert   Cohen   
11   

 CCHHS HR Hosted Four (4)
Lunch & Learn Sessions:
•  June   17,   2012   at   John   H.   Stroger   Hospital   
-­‐ 

For:      ACHN,   CORE   and   John.   H.   Stroger   Hospital      

   

•  August   22,   2012   at   Oak   Forest   Health   Center   
   -­‐

   For:      ACHN   and   CCDPH      

      

•  September   19,   2012   at   Provident   Hospital   
   -­‐

   For:      ACHN   and   Provident      

   

•  October   11,   2012   at   Cermak   Health   Services      
   -­‐

   For:      Cermak   and   JTDC   
12   

   

 CCHHS HR Lunch & Learn Sessions
•  Goal:    An   open   forum   to   provide   members   of   

   management   with   an   opportunity   to   ask   
   quesIons   across   all   funcIonal   areas   of   HR   
   (operaIons,   labor,   recruiIng,   and   educaIon   &   
   development)   
•  Next   Steps:    Follow   up   at   each   facility   with   speciﬁc      
   topic   presentaIons   /   Q&A’s   based   on   the      
   feedback   we   received:   
-­‐    Review   process   for   documentaIon   &   
   discipline   
-­‐    Overview   on   FMLA   and   how   to   
   manage   employee   absences   
13   
   

 Closed Session
September 21, 2012

 

 

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
November 16, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

 Transmitting a Communication dated, November 17, 2012 from

MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the Cook County
Chicago Joint Board, Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, AFL-CIO-CLC Local 200
(RWDSU Local 200) representing Pharmacists and Pharmacy Technicians; and
WHEREAS, the general increases and wage adjustments were previously approved and are
reflected in the Salary Schedules and are included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated between the County of Cook and RWDSU Local 200; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the
County of Cook and RWDSU Local 200 provided by the Bureau of Human Resources.

 Transmitting a Communication dated, November 17, 2012 from

MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, has been negotiated between the County of Cook and the Metropolitan Alliance
of Police (MAP 270) representing Stroger Hospital Sergeants; and
WHEREAS, the general increases and wage adjustments were previously approved and are
reflected in the Salary Schedules and are included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated between the County of Cook and the Metropolitan Alliance of Police (MAP 270); and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated between the
County of Cook the Metropolitan Alliance of Police (MAP 270) provided by the Bureau of
Human Resources.

 PROPOSED RESOLUTION
November 16, 2012
Sponsored by
THE HONORABLE TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT OF THE COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
WHEREAS, the County is obligated to pay the prevailing rate for these categories of employees
pursuant to the state statute and the collective bargaining agreement between the County of Cook
and the Union(s); and
WHEREAS, the unions representing this category of employees have been properly certified
that the below-listed rates are the prevailing rates for the effective date(s) set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Annual Appropriation Bill creates Accounts 490-115, 499-115 and 899-115 for
Appropriation Adjustments for the Corporate, Public Safety and Health Funds if necessary; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the prevailing wages and salaries of the
following positions be fixed as follows:
Job Code
2392
2393
2394
2395
2396
2363
1404
1415
1412
1420
2317
2318
2321

Hourly
Job Classification
Wage Rate
Laborer
$36.20
Laborer I
$36.20
Laborer II
$36.60
Laborer Foreman
$37.30
Laborer Foreman (Highway)
$37.30
Plasterer Helper
$36.20
Building & Zoning Inspector I
$41.52
Building & Zoning Inspector II
$44.52
Fire Prevention Inspector
$44.52
Zoning Plan Examiner I
$44.52
Building & Construction Plan Examiner $44.52
Carpenter
$41.52
Carpenter Foreman
$44.52
Lather
$41.52

Effective
Date
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12
6/1/12

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources and the
Cook County Comptroller are hereby authorized to implement the prevailing rates and salary
adjustments pursuant to state statute.

 Transmitting a Communication dated, November 16, 2012 from

MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Salary Schedule for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Salary Schedule
WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, the Salary Schedule and wage adjustments for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012 have been negotiated between the County of Cook and the Illinois
Licensed Practical Nurses Association (ILPNA); and
WHEREAS, the general increases and wage adjustments that have been negotiated are reflected
in the Salary Schedule and are included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated
between the County of Cook and Illinois Licensed Practical Nurses Association (ILPNA); and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Salary Schedule and wage adjustments negotiated between the
County of Cook and the Illinois Licensed Practical Nurses Association (ILPNA) provided by the
Bureau of Human Resources; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources and the
Cook County Comptroller are hereby authorized to implement the Salary Schedule and wage
adjustments as negotiated.

 