Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, May 31,
2013 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order; however, a quorum was not present. The Board continued to receive
information until approximately 8:25 A.M.; at this time, a quorum was reached, and the Board began to consider the
items presented.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH;
Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (6)

Absent:

Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Edward L. Michael; and Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD (3)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply Chain
Management
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. –State’s Attorney’s Office
Claudia Fegan, MD – Executive Medical
Director/Medical Director Stroger Hospital
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel
Gladys Lopez – System Chief of Human Resources

II.

John Philbin – Strategic Talent Solutions
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Sarah Rusakiewicz – Strategic Talent Solutions
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical
Integration

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call up on the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.
2.

III.

George Blakemore
Dr. Rahman

Concerned Citizen
Former Employee (written testimony included – Attachment #1)

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, April 26, 2013
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Board of Directors Meeting of April 26, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. **Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, May 22, 2013
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief of Clinical Integration, provided an overview of the report received at the Quality
and Patient Safety Committee regarding the Ambulatory Patient Satisfaction Survey.

Page 1 of 29

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, May 31, 2013
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports
B. **Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, May 22, 2013

(continued)

Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, noted that this subject touches upon another subject that will be
reviewed later in the meeting, regarding the Management Training Program. On the front-line level, a few
months ago, he had presented to the Board an overview of the Ambassador Program; under this Program, he
invited front-line staff to present to him their ideas for some patient experience enhancement initiatives. One of
the initiatives that developed from the Program relates to the GMC Clinic - the front-line staff worked together
and reduced a twelve step process to a three step process, so that the wait time could be reduced. So, at various
levels, the administration is kick-starting the process at the highest level. The Board will hear information later
in the meeting about how the middle managers are going to be trained through the Management Training
Program / Cook County University. The administration will empower the front line staff so that they come up
with innovative solutions to increase the patient satisfaction.
Dr. Shannon stated that, with regard to capacity, when one reviews both the primary care and specialty care
ambulatory slots, one finds that the productivity in those clinics is probably pretty good. Upon review of the
number of scheduled slots, it is found that a number of those scheduled slots are not filled – this leads to a
presumption that there must be a lot of excess capacity in the System. However, it turns out that the proportion
of unused or unfilled schedule spots is in most cases exactly matched and in some cases surpassed by the
number of people who walk in to the clinic, either because they were told that is the best way to get in, or
because they felt that they had no other choice and could not wait any longer. Having an electronic record
system implemented helps to address this, but this issue still shows an inefficiency and a disconnect between
what the patients need and what the clinics are providing at the right time.
The Board discussed the subject of productivity and volume, as it relates to new patients versus current patients.
Dr. Shannon stated that, as the System tries to build up capacity and operational efficiencies that will improve
capacity, one cannot be naïve about the fact that the System has a significant number of patients who are seen in
specialty care who do not have a primary care site or place to go; alternatively, these patients may have an
option in their neighborhood to go to a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC), but it may not have some of
the same things that the patients are used to receiving, such as access to medications or differences in their cost
structure that make it challenging for the patient. He stated that it is absolutely the case that the administration
will have to look at and continue to improve that new to follow-up patient relationship, particularly in the
specialty clinics. In addition to that, the administration will have to look at other measures of how well it is
doing with the management of its current patients. For example, there are approximately 25,000 adult diabetic
patients in the System. Staff needs to know, on average, how many times those people see their medical home.
If that number is too low, it is likely that those patients will be seen later down the road in the emergency room
or in the hospital. As the System is developing the ability to count those things with the electronic record and
patient registries, each of these will provide a slightly different window on how the System is doing in both
primary care and specialty care.
The subject of co-pays was discussed. Chairman Carvalho noted that one of the problems, at least a couple of
years
ago,
was
that
some
of
the
FQHCs
were
going
to
a
system of very significant co-pays for the uninsured. Director Velasquez stated that at Alivio Medical Center,
which is an FQHC, there is a co-pay for services provided, because similar to the System, Alivio has to meet its
goal of financial sustainability. She noted that there is a belief that services provided by the System are free –
that is a culture that is very difficult to break. The patient has a responsibility also – they have an obligation in
their healthcare and in the sustainability of the facility that they are using.

Page 2 of 29

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, May 31, 2013
Page 3

III.

Board and Committee Reports
B. **Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, May 22, 2013

(continued)

Dr. Shannon provided an example regarding the challenges experienced in the development of medical homes.
The System is moving toward a team-based care model that has multiple different kinds of providers with
various kinds of skill levels all working together around a panel of patients that are being managed in a proactive fashion. In the context of that, duties and tasks are assigned to different members of the team, so that
people can practice at the top of their license and do what they do best, and at the same time there are team
members doing whatever is needed for the patients’ care. He stated that staff ran into a bit of a challenge when
one member of that team reached out to do part of that activity and it was felt to be an incursion into the duties
that had already been described for other staff members; there was a challenge related to whether that was
appropriate. This is something that had been covered before staff went into the development of the medical
home model, with leadership from both sides agreeing on the roles, responsibilities and job descriptions. This
example is one of the kinds of growing pains that is experienced in an organization like this. He commended
the physician and nursing leadership at that clinical site because they completely owned that challenge in their
own backyard; they brought it to the administration’s attention and they worked through it with their leadership.

Director Muñoz, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of May 22, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, May 24, 2013
During the presentation of the Minutes, Director O’Donnell indicated that one of the statistics that came to her
attention at the meeting during the discussion of the financial reports was the average daily census at Provident
Hospital, which is thirteen. She noted that this figure only takes into account people who are actually in the
hospital on inpatient stays. She stated that she feels that this was a very troubling statistic; she encouraged the
Board to go back to the Strategic Plan and think about implementing Phase II, and recommended that the Board
have a serious discussion moving forward.
Director O’Donnell, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved the approval of the
Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of May 24, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, May 24, 2013
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Wiese, moved the approval of the Minutes
of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of May 24, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 3 of 29

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, May 31, 2013
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, reviewed the requests presented for the Board’s
consideration under Items IV(A), IV(B), IV(C) and IV(E). The Board reviewed and discussed the requests.
Gladys Lopez, System Chief of Human Resources, provided additional information regarding the contractual
request under Item IV(E). In response to a question from Chairman Carvalho regarding the number of vacancies
that this request for temporary staffing would address, she stated that she did not have that information at hand, but
could provide it to him following the meeting.
A. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #2)
B. Request for authorization to enter into and execute an Intergovernmental Agreement between the
Illinois Department of Public Health and the County of Cook, on behalf of its Cook County Health
and Hospitals System and the Office of the County Clerk for Cook County (Attachment #3)
C. Request to amend previously approved item (Attachment #4)
On April 26, 2013, the CCHHS Board of Directors approved a request for authorization for the
Board Chairman to enter into and execute a Lease Schedule, pursuant to the Replacement Master
Lease Agreement with Banc of America Leasing and Capital Corp., LLC, for the leasing of a fully
equipped modular office building. At the time the request was made, the estimated acquisition cost
was $500,000.00.
Respectfully request approval to amend the estimated maximum acquisition cost for this item to not
exceed $650,000.00.
D. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII
E.

Supplemental Contract and Procurement Item (Attachment #5)
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the
requests under Items IV(A), IV(B), IV(C) and IV(E). THE MOTION CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho abstained and voted PRESENT on Item IV(B).

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Chairman Carvalho briefly referenced information that has been recently provided regarding the proposed
appointments of new Members of the Board; he expected that more information would follow at the June Board
Meeting.

Page 4 of 29

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, May 31, 2013
Page 5

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #6)
This item was taken out of order.
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: System Transformation; Legislative Update – SB26;
Department of Volunteer Services; and Employee Recognition.
During the discussion of the Legislative Update, Chairman Carvalho stated that there is another proposal that has
come up in Springfield in the last few days regarding an exclusive provider organization (EPO); an EPO is like a
preferred provider organization (PPO) except that under an EPO, services provided out-of-network are not paid for.
If an individual’s employer offers this and the individual is a member of an EPO, the individual has to go to the
entities that are part of the network; if the individual goes anyplace else, that facility will get paid $0. That means
that the System will have to have a defensive plan for that, because some individuals who are in EPOs may decide
that their option outside of their network is to go to the County for what they think are “free” services. Chairman
Carvalho noted that the subject of defensive strategies for this type of issue is planned for discussion at the next
Board Meeting, but he had wanted to point out that a proposal is pending regarding EPOs.

A. Presentation on Management Training Program
Dr. Raju stated that the front-line managers are the backbone of the transformation; the administration needs to
ensure that they understand what is required, and understand how to develop patient experience initiatives and
service recovery activities very quickly if things do not go well. The System has received pro-bono help from
Strategic Talent Solutions; their staff spent countless hours developing the curriculum for the Management
Training Program. He introduced John Philbin and Sarah Rusakiewicz, of Strategic Talent Solutions, who
provided an overview of the Program.
Mr. Philbin stated that this Program will take patient care managers through an initial curriculum of
approximately five sessions, most of which will be half-day sessions, to help managers understand what they
need to do in order to be more effective; this will give them more specific tools and will give them the
opportunity to practice those skills.
Ms. Rusakiewicz presented information on how the training is being built and regarding some of the key topic
areas for the training. She stated that their team is also going to assist in making sure that the administration of
the training is sustainable. After the first session and administration is complete, training will be owned,
coordinated and led internally by the Cook County Human Resources staff and some managers from the first
cohort. Dr. Raju added that the training of two hundred managers will not happen in the next six months; it
will take three years to completely implement.
Chairman Carvalho inquired regarding the expectations/plan for follow-up training. Ms. Rusakiewicz stated
that they are getting the supervisor involved early, and getting them involved in knowing what the expected
behavior changes are; additionally, they are giving them tools that can be a part of their feedback process to the
manager on an ongoing basis that they can use year after year.

Page 5 of 29

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, May 31, 2013
Page 6

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. **Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, May 22, 2013
Director Velasquez, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings
Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public
body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body
or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11),
regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been
filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an
action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and
entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment
of reserves or settlement of claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental
Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be
prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk management information, records,
data, advice or communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any
intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body is
a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or
formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was taken,
the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Muñoz, O’Donnell,
Velasquez and Wiese (6)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Directors Butler, Michael and Morris (3)

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho recessed the closed session to the call of the Chair, in order for the Board to
continue receiving information on Items II, V and VI; following that activity, Chairman Carvalho
reconvened the recessed closed session.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened into
regular session.
VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared the MEETING ADJOURNED.

Page 6 of 29

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, May 31, 2013
Page 7

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 7 of 29

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
May 31, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 8 of 29

  

I RAHMAN MD

Statement of Dr. Rahman for the meeting of the Board of Directors Friday, May 3 2013 

  

 

Date: May 30, 2013

STATEMENT OF DR. RAHMAN:

 

Chairman, Members of the Board of Directors, CEO, ladies and gentlemen, good morning!

My name is Dr. - Rahman and I am a former trainee resident employee of the 

. I have completed three plus years of training in at the
hospital after accepting an ?out of match? offer by the hospital for the ?rst year. Ninety percent 

of my ?overall evaluations? on record were either ?exceeds expectations? or ?meets expectations? for the
assigned level of training. Only three rotations did not meet the hospitals expectations but the same specialty
rotations done before and after generated favorable evaluations. Thereafter, I was put on probation that
culminated in 100% ?overall? favorable evaluations for the level of third year as per documents. Besides
the 12 evaluations for which the credits are given there are 22 more ?overall? acceptable evaluations that are
not being accounted for towards the ?nal credits. In addition, during my stay I was also recognized for
?outstanding teaching job?.

The documents on record con?rm that I have completed the progressive level of training successfully in
?good standing? as had been formally certi?ed by the hospital earlier However, the most important
and foremost aspect of this issue is the violation of the documents protected by the U.S. Federal Laws 
and also other known policies and procedures in this case by the hospital Finally, I was given 12 months
of credits instead of 36 months 

For several years, now, I have been pointing out these issues to the County. I have been requesting the Board
time to meet me to provide them situational awareness, present and discuss the facts and to solicit guidance
and help so that this issue can be resolved at the earliest but in spite of my several requests the Board has
maintained silence despite the Chairman?s remark on March 28th of this year [10] Some of?cials at
the hospital, even at the instructions of the CEO, did not give me time for a meeting. I have now received a
letter and some documents from the hospital but they do not conform fully to the documents on record 
and, therefore, the response is self-contradictory and incomplete. Obviously, without hearing me the
conjecture of the Board or for that matter anyone else shall remain unfounded and unfair.

The Board has the ultimate power, resources and authority in this System. Recently my request to look into
the matter was re-sent to the hospital personnel who have already given me their response in the past;
obviously as I had concerns about their outlook I had approached the Board. The request is to the Board to
get involved and look into the matter impartially now. After much waiting, today I am requesting the

RECEIVED -
2

Page 1 of2

 

Page 9 of 29 

STATEMENT OF DR. RAHMAN:
MAY 30, 2013
Chairman of the Board, as the public of?cial, to update me regarding the steps that have been taken by the

Board to rectify the situation pursuant to my pointing out of the issues earlier in the following regards:

1) Suppression of my training credits by the violation of the already executed and enforced documents
on record especially, including but not limited to, the US. Federal Government documents protected
by the US. Federal Laws and award of training credits based upon them.

2) Direct the hospital and ensure that the complete response is furnished to the request through the
letter to the hospital dated February 28, 2013 and (ii) the letter dated December 11, 2003 

3) Steps that have been taken by the Board to investigate and resolve the matter in a nonpartisan and
neutral manner to ensure fairness and accountability.

4) Permitting of a much requested, a sixty-minute meeting between the Board and myself at a mutually
acceptable date and time for the reasons requested earlier 

I assure you my full reasonable cooperation in the matter. I understand the purpose of these meetings is to
resolve the issues and I am sure that the Board will step forward to help me. However, should the Board not
respond to my concerns indicated above by June 15, 2013 I shall be forced to believe automatically that the
Board is not interested to look into the matter and have nothing to offer. I shall be pleased to answer any
questions that you may have at this time. 

Thank you for listening to me today.

 

ANNOTATIONS:

For the convenience of the Board please also refer to other letters and correspondence sent for details as
referred elsewhere. See/note the following:

To Secretary of the Board for distribution to the Directors of the Board.

Already executed and enforced IAP-66s on record - the US. Federal Government legal documents

protected by the US. Federal Laws.

Letter to the Board dated December 11, 2003.

Rounded or approximate.

Letter to the Chair, DPER dated February 28, 2013.

12 months for the AB. and 18 months for the licensures.

36 months of credits are required to be eligible to sit for the AB. examination and matriculation from

the program.

Letter to the Board dated May 3, 2013.

Request through thee-mail to the CEO dated December 13, 2012, . .to convene and chair an

immediate meeting of the concerned at the level of the hospital to discuss and resolve the issues at the

earliest.?

?01 Letter to the Board dated March 27, 2013.

Letter to the Board dated March 28, 2013.

[12] Alternatively with the Chairman of the Board. In both instances in the presence of the CEO of the System.
Page 2 of 2

Page 10 of 29

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
May 31, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 11 of 29

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(A) 
MAY 31, 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS
Request 
#

Vendor

Service or Product

Fiscal Impact

Begins 
Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#

Extend and Increase Contract
1

Abbott Diabetes Care Sales  Product and Service ‐ blood glucose
Corporation
monitors for glucose testing

Page 12 of 29

$280,480.00 

SHCC

2

  

Cook County Health Hospitals System

BOA- - APPROVAL RE 
WW :4th 

 
 
   
  
 

  

   
  
  
 

     
   
     
 

  

 

     
  

 

 
   
 

 

   

 

       
     
    
     

 

     
     

 

 

        
 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

  
 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
This contract provides blood glucose monitors needed for bedside testing at Stroger and Provident Hospitals as well
as Oak Forest Health Center, Cermak Health Services and the Ambulatory and Community Health Network. The

. original contract was approved by the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board on 06/05/2007 in the amount
I of $864,000.00 for a 36 month period. The contract was increased in the amount $86,400.00 for the time period of
12/01/2011 thru 7/31/2012. The contract was subsequently extended from 08/01/2012 thru 05/31/2013 with no
increase in cost to the contract. The total contract value was $950,400.00.

 
 

I SPONSOR: HII EXECUTIVE I
I Joanne Dulski, Director Laborato John Jay Shannon, M.D., Chief of Clinical 
I Rhonda Yates, Director of Pharmac Integration/Interim Executive Director Clinical Shared I
. Services 
I DATE: PRODUCT SERVICE:
I 05/14/2013 Product and Service- Blood Glucose Monitors for Glucose Testing
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
Extend and Increase Abbott Diabetes Care Sales Corporation, Abbott Park, IL 1
ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT: GRANT FUNDED IRENEWAL AMOUNT: I
897-365 Pathology- Inpatient $64,000.00 i
897-361 Pharmacy-Outpatient $216,480.00 I
Total $280,480.00
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
06/01/2013 thru 08/31/2013 07-15-180H
I COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
BID
I NON-COMPETITWE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: 
I i
I

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
This extension will allow more time to assess the best and most cost effective methodology to meet
regulatory and accreditation guidelines. In addition, inpatient and outpatient volumes have been combined under the
inpatient contract. This request includes glucose meters, docking stations and LIS interface as well. This will
increase the total contract value to $1,230,880.00.

 
   
       
 

  

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This request is to extend and increase contract number 07-15-180H for a period of 3 months from 06/01/2013 thru

08/31/2013. 

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: 

ATTACHMENTS o)
BID TABULATIONS: . MAY 3 22010
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE MEMO:

     
     
       

 
  
 

 
 

 

   

 

 

     
 
    

 

 

 

 

I BY BOARD OF

I NTY

. CB0: DIRECTORS OF THE COOK cou

I Anthony Rajkumar, Chief Busi icer HEALTH AND SYSTEM
CFO:

I John Cookinham, 'ef Financial Of?cer - -

i Request 

I CEO: 1

I Ram Ra'uu 1W 

- Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
0 John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital 0 Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01/2011

Page 13 of 29

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
May 31, 2013

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 14 of 29

  

INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN .

THE ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

AND
THE COUNTY OF COOK,
ON BEHALF OF ITS

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AND
THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK FOR COOK COUNTY

This Intergovernmental Agreement (?Agreement?) is entered into by and between the Illinois
Department of Public Health and the County of Cook (?County?), on behalf of its
Cook County Health and Hospitals System and the Office of the County Clerk
for Cook County (?Clerk?), pursuant to the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act, 5 ILCS 220/1
et seq., in connection with the Sharing of vital records data to facilitate the implementation of the
Medicaid 1115 waiver Demonstration Project (?CountyCare?) from the federal Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services IDPH, Clerk and are collectively referred to
herein as ?Parties? or individually as a ?Party.? To ful?ll the terms of this Agreement the Parties
agree to the following:

ARTICLE I
INTRODUCTION

Whereas, IDPH is authorized by the Illinois Vital Records Act 410 ILCS 535/2, to
install, maintain, and Operate the system of vital records throughout Illinois including, but not
limited to: the State of Illinois Automated Vital Records System and the Illinois Vital
Records System and 

Whereas, Section 1 Of the Act de?nes ?Vital records? to include records of births, deaths, fetal
deaths, marriages, dissolution of marriages, and data related thereto and a ?system of Vital
records? to include the registration, collection, preservation, amendment and certi?cation of vital
records, and activities related thereto; and

Whereas, pursuant to Section 4 of the Act, the Director of IDPH is the State Registrar of Vital
Records; and 

Whereas, as set forth in Section 500.20(a) of the Vital Records Code (Code), 77 Ill. Adm. Code
the IDPH State Registrar of Vital Records may furnish, upon the terms and conditions
he/she may prescribe, under the Act, when deemed in the public interest and not for purposes of
commercial solicitation or private gain, copies of vital records or data from these records to
public agencies administering health welfare, safety, law enforcement, or public assistance
programs; and

Whereas, the Clerk is the Of?cial record keeper for births, 
that occur in Cook County; and
Page 1 of 6
MAY 3 1 2013

couuw
AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

 

Page 15 Of 29

 

Whereas, is an agency of and funded by Cook County that provides integrated health
and medical services to residents of Cook County and, in cooperation with the State of Illinois,
is undertaking a Demonstration Project (referred to herein as ?CountyCare?) pursuant to
a waiver granted by CMS to the State of Illinois under Section 1115 of the Social Security Act
Waiver?) on October 26, 2012; and

Whereas, the CMS Waiver expires on January 31, 2014; and

Whereas, based on the eligibility criteria set forth in the Special Terms and Conditions 
for the CountyCare Demonstration Project, which will expand Medicaid eligibility, will
need to work with the State of Illinois to enroll low income Illinois adults, who have not been
eligible for Medicaid in the past, into CountyCare during the term of the CMS Waiver; and

Whereas, to prepare CountyCare applications for submission to the State of Illinois for review
and approval, needs to verify birth records of Medicaid applicants to ensure proof of
citizenship, an eligibility criteria of CountyCare, and needs access to vital records data from the
Clerk and IDPH to verify birth records of eligible adults within Cook County and outside of
Cook County, but within the State of Illinois during the term of the CMS Waiver; and

Whereas, the Parties have mutual interests in addressing the needs for access to vital records
data in order to facilitate the enrollment and membership of individuals into health bene?t
programs;

Now Therefore, in consideration of the premises and the mutual undertakings herein set forth,
the suf?ciency and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledge, the Parties agree as follows:

ARTICLE II
DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES

2.1 The Clerk has, since October 26, 2012, provided and will continue to provide 
with access to AVRS, which contains Cook County vital records data, and IDPH, through the'
Clerk will provide with access to AVRS and IVRS, which contains statewide vital
records data, for the limited purpose of verifying citizenship for public and private health bene?t
program applicants and members during the term of the CMS waiver.

2.2 When accessing AVRS and IVRS, will make no attempt to access any additional
Vital records data or access any vital records data for any person other than applicants and
members of health bene?t programs. will ensure that no vital records data obtained
from either IDPH or the Clerk will be further retained, disseminated or utilized except as
provided for in thisiAgreement. may use the services of a contractor to ful?ll the
obligations of this Agreement.

2.3 IDPH, Clerk, will provide designated personnel with access to the
systems through the provision and use of speci?ed user identi?cations. 

Page 2 of 6

Page 16 of 29

 

2.4 The Clerk?s designated personnel will provide training to personnel on the use
of AVRS and IVRS and how to access the birth record data.

2.5 designated personnel will be able to access the systems through
terminals/computers that will be provided at the Clerk?s main of?ce located 1n Chicago, Illinois.
The Parties shall mutually determine the number of terminals/computers that will be provided for
use at the site. In making such determination, the Parties should consider the number of
records that need to be veri?ed and the time needed to complete the veri?cation.

2.6 When the required birth record is identi?ed, designated personnel are authorized
to produce and retain a screen print of the data in hardcopy and/or electronic form.

2. 7 After retrieving the relevant data, shall provide the Clerk with a list containing
the name of all pctential health bene?t program applicants and members that veri?es 1n
AVRS and/or IVRS, and other information as requested by the Clerk. Such list shall be provided
to the Clerk at time intervals and in a format that is mutually agreed upon by the Parties.

2.8 The Clerk?s designated personnel may reconcile all screen prints against the list of
potential health bene?t program applicants and members identi?ed by and retain copies
of such reconciliations.

ARTICLE 
EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS

3.1 Expenditures. No Party shall be obligated to pay any other Party for the responsibilities
set forth in this Agreement. Each Party shall perform its responsibilities pursuant to this
Agreement at its own cost and expense.

ARTICLE IV
TERM
4.1 Ie_rm. This Agreement shall commence upon execution of all the Parties and, unless
otherwise terminated by the Parties, shall continue until January 31, 2014.

ARTICLE 
TERMINATION

5.1 Termination on Notice. This Agreement may be terminated by either Party for any or no
reason upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to the other Party.

5.2 Termination for Breach. In the event either Party breaches this Agreement and fails to
cure such breach within ten (10) days written notice thereof from the non-breaching Party, the
non-breaching Party may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to the breaching Party.

Page 3 of 6

Page 17 of 29

ARTICLE VI
MISCELLANEOUS

6.1 Renewal. This Agreement may be renewed for additional one (1) year periods by mutual
consent of the Parties, expressed in writing and signed by the Parties. 

6.2 Amendments. This Agreement may be modi?ed or amended at any time during its term
by mutual consent of the Parties, expressed in writing and signed by the Parties.

6.3 Applicable Law and Severabilitv. This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the
laws of the State of Illinois. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held or deemed to be or
shall in fact be inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any jurisdiction
or jurisdictions or in all cases because it con?icts with any other provision or provisions hereof
or any constitution, statute, ordinance, rule of law or public policy, or for any reason, such
circumstance shall not have the effect of rendering any other provision or provisions contained
herein invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any extent whatsoever. The invalidity of any one
or more phrases, sentences, clauses, or sections contained in this Agreement shall not affect the
remaining portions of this Agreement or any part thereof. In the event that this Agreement is
determined to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall be terminated immediately.

6.4 Records Retention. The Parties shall maintain for a minimum of ?ve (5) years from the
later of the date of termination or expiration of this Agreement, adequate books, records and
supporting documents. If an audit, litigation or other action involving the records is begun before
the end of the ?ve (5) year period, the records shall be retained until all issues arising out of the
action are resolved.

6.5 Assignment; Binding Effect. This Agreement, or any portion thereof, shall not be
assigned by any of the Parties without the prior written consent of the other Parties. This
Agreement shall inure to the bene?t of and shall be binding upon IDPH, County, Clerk and
and their respective successors and permuted assigns.

6.6 Precedence. In the event there is a con?ict between this Agreement and any exhibits
attached hereto, this Agreement shall control. In the event there is a con?ict between this
Agreement and relevant statute(s) or Administrative Rule(s), the relevant statute(s) or rule(s)
shall control.

6.7 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties;
no promises, terms, or conditions not recited, incorporated or referenced herein, including prior
agreements or oral discussions, shall be binding upon either Party.

6.8 Notices. All written notices, requests and communications may be made by certi?ed
mail, fax or electronic mail to the e-mail addresses set forth below.

To IDPH: George S. Rudis
Deputy State Registrar, Division of Vital Records

Page 4 of 6

Page 18 of 29

Illinois Department of Public Health
925 East Ridgely

Spring?eld, Illinois 62702

Email: george.rudis@illinois.gov

To COUNTY: Toni Preckwinkle
118 North Clark Street, Room 537
Chicago, IL 60602
Fax: (312) 443?4397

To Ram Raju, MD.
Chief Executive Of?cer
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
1900 West Polk
Chicago, Illinois 60612
Email: 

To CLERK: David Orr
Of?ce of the County Clerk
69 West Washington, Suite 500
Chicago, Illinois 60602
Email: d.orr@cookcountyil.gov

6.9 Availabilitv of Appropriations. The Parties? respective obligations hereunder shall cease
immediately, without penalty, if: the Illinois General Assembly fails to make an appropriation
suf?cient to pay such obligations; adequate funds are not appropriated or granted to the
respective Parties by the Illinois General Assembly to allow the respective Parties to ful?ll their
obligations under this Agreement; or funds appropriated are de-appropriated or not allocated.

6.10 Headings. Section and other headings contained in this Agreement are for reference
purposes only and are not intended to describe, interpret, de?ne or limit the scope, extent or
intent of this Agreement or any provision hereof.

6.11 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of
which shall be considered to be one and the same agreement, binding on all Parties hereto,
notwithstanding that all Parties are not signatories to the same counterpart. Further, duplicated
signatures, signatures transmitted via facsimile, or signatures contained in a Portable Document
Format (PDF) document shall be deemed original for all purposes.

Page 5 of 6

Page 19 of 29

 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by
their duly authoriZed representatives.

ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

 

LaMar Hasbrouck, MD, MPH
Director
Date:

 

COOK COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

 

Toni Preckwinkle
President
Date:

 

Acknowledged by: THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

Ram Raju, MD.
Chief Executive Of?cer
Date:

 

Acknowledged by: THE OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK, COOK COUNTY

 

David Orr
Cook County Clerk
Date:

 

Approved as to form: COOK COUNTY OFFICE

 

Assistant State?s Attorney
Date:

 

Page 6 of 6

Page 20 of 29

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
May 31, 2013

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 21 of 29

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Toni Preckwinkle President
Cm]: County Board of Commissioners

    

Health 8; Hospitals System Board Members
Commissioner Jerry Butler

David Carvalho Chairman Quin R. leden
(Twit County l-leallh 8: Hospitals System Board Edward L. Michael
Jorge Ramirez - Vice Chairman Rev. f?f_ Mums. pm)
Luvs Munoz. MD

 

Com; County Health Hospitals System Board Heather O'Donnell

Ram Raju MD. MBA. FACS. FACHE 0 CEO Carmen Velasquez
Cook County Health Hospitals System [Mime P. Wicsc. Edi)
Date: April 23, 2013 AS AMENDED
To: David Carvalho, Chairman

Board of Directors, Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Heather O?Donnell, Chairman
Finance Committee, Board of Directors, Cook County Health and Hospitals System

From: Regina M. Besenhofer, Director Supply Chain Management

Subject: Lease Schedule under replacement Master Lease Agreement with Banc'of America
Leasing Corp and Capital Corp., LLC

In August 2010, pursuant to the authorization by this Board, the entered into a replacement
Master Lease Agreement with Banc of America Leasing and Capital Corp., LLC (?Banc of America?) for the
purposes of leasing capital equipment beginning in 2010. Under the Master Lease the parties may enter
into Lease Schedules with respect to specific items of equipment to be leased.

Under the Master Lease, the interest rate for each Lease Schedule is based upon the three-year United
States Treasury Maturity SWAP rate. The amounts payable under each lease schedule may therefore vary
depending upon changes in this indicator.

We are requesting you to authorize the Chairman to enter into and execute a lease schedule to permit
to lease a fully equipped modular office building. The lease schedule will not be presented to the
Chairman for execution until all proper Procurement processes have been completed including the
responsiveness of County Compliance for participation.

The estimated maximum acquisition cost for this item is $5997009 650,000. This equipment will
be leased pursuant to one or more lease schedules under the replacement Master Lease
Agreement. The lease schedule shall have a term of 36 months and interest shall be based on the
then-current SWAP rate. In the event Banc of America is required to make certain interim
payments to the manufacturer at the time of the purchase and equipment delivery, a related
agreement will be entered into with Banc of America, in addition to the applicable Lease Schedule,
or will be included in the amounts due under the applicable lease schedule at the rate of PRIME
minus 

Under the lease schedule, control and use of the equipment will rest entirely with the Health System. The
equipment is being acquired by Banc of America based ions and
acquisition pricing secured by the Health System.

  
 

MAY 312013

BY BOARD OF

 
 

 

 

 

Ambulatory In Community "will: Holwork 0 Carnal: Health S. Mlle 0
0 John H. Sin-agar, Jr. Hospital Oak For?! Haul"! Center 0 Pro?cient Hospital 6 Hall: H. Rahal-In CORE Confer 0

We Bring HealthCAllE to Your Community

Page 22 of 29

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
May 31, 2013

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 23 of 29

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(E) 
MAY 31, 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 SUPPLEMENTAL CONTRACT AND PROCUREMENT ITEM
Request 
#

Vendor

Service or Product

Fiscal Impact

Begins 
Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#

Amend and Increase Contract
2

STW Healthcare, LLC

Service ‐ professional staffing

Page 24 of 29

$809,160.00  System

2

 Cook County Health Hospitals System

  

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST "1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPONSOR: EXECUTIVE SPONS . :7 I
Rhonda Yates, Director of Pharmacy John Jay Shannon, Chief of Clinical Integration/Interim I
Gina Besenhofer, Director, Supply i Man 9 ment Executive Director, Clinical Shared Services I
I l7 ?3 Anthony Rajkumar, Chief Business Officer
DATE: RODUCT I SERVICE:
05/06/2013 - Service - Professional Staffing
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
Amend and Increase STW Healthcare, LLC, Hazel Crest, IL
ACCOUNT FISCAL IMPACT: GRANT FUNDED I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
890-275 $675,000.00 
890-260 Supply Chain $134,160.00
Total $809,160.00
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER: I
I 06/01/2013 thru 11/30/2013 H11-73-006 i
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: I
BID 1
NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: I
1
PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY: I

Contract number H11-73-006 was approved by the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board on 10/27/2011. I

The amendment Of $5,772,932.00 allowed Smith, Thomas Williams Healthcare to provide temporary staf?ng in I
various departments Of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System. These departments include Radiology, i
I Cardiology and the Laboratory. Several increases have been approved by the Cook County Health and Hospitals i
I System Board to allow STW Healthcare to provide additional temporary staf?ng required for the Pharmacy. I
I NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION: . I
. The Cook County Health and Hospitals System Department of Pharmacy has determined the need to continue the 

use Of agency staff at the Central Fill/Mail Order facility at Oak Forest for a period of up to six (6) months to maintain I
service for high mail order volUmes. This will allow the Department time to ?ll critical permanent positions and I
provide Optimal levels of service for mail order prescription processing. The Supply Chain Department has a critical I
need to ?ll several critical permanent positions including a Procurement Manager for OR/Cath lab and a Contract .
Manager. The total increase for the contract is $809,160.00 for a 6-month period, with a total contract value Of I
I $7,712,772.00. I

TERMS OF REQUEST: I A ROVED

I This is a request to amend and Increase contract number H11-73-006 in the amO nt of $809,160.00 for the period

I from 06/01/2013thru 11/30/2013. .
I MAY 3 I 2013

I

 

 

 

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: Pe ding
. BY BOARD OF
I ATTACHMENTS DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY 
I TABULATIONS. MA HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM I
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE MEMO: Pending 
GimmeL I I
John Cookinham ief Financial Officer i
Request 

 

. CEO: 
utive .

 

- Ambulatory 8: Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services . Department of Public Health -
0 John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Hospital - Provident Hospital - Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center - 

We Bring Health CARE tO Your Community
Revised 03/01/2011

Page 25 of 29

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
May 31, 2013

ATTACHMENT #6

Page 26 of 29

  
RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
May 31, 2013 
 
 
SYSTEM TRANSFORMATION 
 
Our Cook County Health and Hospitals System is at a moment of great change and transformation.  We 
have a longstanding mission of caring for the underserved with respect and dignity, regardless of 
immigration status or ability to pay. Our transformation is necessary for us to continue to serve the most 
vulnerable patient populations, including those who will remain uninsured after the Affordable Care Act 
is implemented.  
 
With the advent of the Affordable Care Act, the healthcare paradigm is changing across the country.  
CCHHS is changing. We have the unique opportunity to bring healthcare access to tens of thousands of 
residents before the Affordable Care Act is implemented, through our demonstration project, 
“CountyCare”.  We are shifting our emphasis to primary and preventative care and to coordinating the 
right care, at the right time, and in the right place to keep our patients well.  If we are to survive to 
continue our mission, we must make this change and deliver service that wins loyalty from our patients.  
 
This change is happening at all levels within CCHHS. To rise to the call of our community entering a new 
era, we need vision, strong leadership, a thoughtful plan, and confidence in execution of that plan.  
• Vision – At this extraordinary time, we must look to our mission as we transform. In five years, 
every County resident, regardless of immigration status or ability to pay, has accessible primary 
care and coordination of the right care at the right time, and in the right place. This has always 
been our mission. I am proud of this, and of our culture of passion and resilience.  
• Leadership – In In February 2013 CCHHS announced a new leadership structure designed to 
better support our patients and to more effectively deliver the right care at the right time. The 
structure is based on health systems across the country that pioneered primary care‐driven, 
coordinated healthcare. It reflects new disciplines like “care management” and is flatter to 
enable hands‐on management and greater focus and accountability. It supports efforts initiated 
to prepare for the Affordable Care Act that will, over time, become CCHHS’s new day‐to‐day 
reality and require teams to organize and interact in new ways. 

Page 27 of 29

 •

•

Plan – With our Affordable Care Act demonstration project, “CountyCare”, we have the unique 
opportunity to bring healthcare access early to tens of thousands of residents. We are using 
federal support to invest in a network‐based model of the right care at the right time and in the 
right place to keep our patients well. If we are to survive to continue our mission, we need to 
make this change and we need to deliver service that wins loyalty of our patients.  
Confidence – We know patients’ experience with our Health System today will determine 
whether they choose CCHHS in the future. We are expanding our focus on how our patients 
experience our Health System.  We know that each of us has a role to play, and we can only 
succeed by asking every day what we can do better to serve our patients.  This fall, our Health 
System will launch a development program for frontline managers, aimed at equipping them 
with skills needed to be exceptional leaders.  Together, we can achieve it. Our patients are 
depending on us. 

 
Our Health System celebrates a rich history: the nation’s first blood bank, first trauma unit, and the 
hospital where some of the greatest doctors and nurses in the history of American medicine have 
chosen to practice. We cherish our role in this community as a beacon of hope for millions of residents. 
We celebrate our culture of passion and resilience. I am proud to be CEO of this iconic Health System as 
we work to serve our community in a new era. 
 
 
 
LEGISLATIVE UPDATE – SB26  
 
On May 28, 2013 the Illinois Senate adopted SB 26 – the Specialized Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 
2013 by a vote of 39‐20.  This legislation amends the Medical Assistance Article of the Illinois Public Aid 
Code  so  that  beginning  January  1,  2014,  benefits  under  the  State’s  medical  assistance  program  ate 
extended to persons aged 19 or older, but younger than 65,who are not otherwise eligible for medical 
assistance  under  the  Code,  who  qualify  for  medical  assistance  under  the  specified  provisions  of  the 
Social Security Act, and who have an income level at or below 133% of the federal poverty level plus 5% 
for applicable family size.  This also provides that the 4‐year moratorium on the expansion of medical 
assistance eligibility through increasing financial eligibility standards shall not apply to this new class of 
persons.   
Included in this legislation is an amendment to 305 ILCS 5/5‐5 Medical Services regarding the 180 day 
rule  to  be  eligible  for  payment  consideration  by  adding  an  additional  exception  that  “In  case  of  a 
provider  operated  by  a  unit  of  local  government  with  a  population  exceeding  3,000,000  when  local 
government funds finance federal participation for claims payments.”  The inclusion of the exemption 
will decrease the number of denials since the implementation of the rule. 
 
 
 
2   P a g e  
 

Page 28 of 29

 DEPARTMENT OF VOLUNTEER SERVICES 
 
On April 19, 2013 the Department of Volunteer Services hosted 30 students and three faculty members 
from the University of Iowa's Healthcare Administration Masters Degree Program.  The group toured the 
ED, NICU, Fantus Clinic and Radiology; they were impressed with services we provide and very grateful 
for the time CCHHS staff spent with them learning about our System, programs and services.  This is the 
10th year the Department of Volunteer Services has hosted the school.  This is one of the many ways the 
Department of Volunteer Services reaches out to students and the community to share the good news 
about John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County.    
 
 
RECOGNITION 
 
Last month the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association presented the John H. Stroger 
Hospital of Cook County with a Certificate of Recognition in commemoration of achieving Bronze Status 
associated with their “Get With the Guidelines – Resuscitation” Program.  Dr. Renaud Gueret received 
the AHA/ASA award certificate on behalf of Stroger Hospital.  Dr. Gueret, a long‐time employee of 
CCHHS, serves as Director of the MICU and Chairman of the Resuscitation Committee.  I commend Dr. 
Gueret and his team for their hard work and commitment in to providing our patients with high quality 
care. 
 
 
 
  
 
 

3   P a g e  
 

Page 29 of 29

 