HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: May 13, 2016
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Friday, May 20, 2016 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor
Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

9:00/Chairman Wiese

II.

Public Speakers

9:00-9:10

III.

Closed Meeting Items

9:10-9:20

A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement-related matter (see Item IV(A))
Report from Chief of Human Resources
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

IV.

Action Items
A. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement-related matter – approval of :

9:20-9:30/Gladys Lopez

Negotiated wages and healthcare changes for:
• Cook County Pharmacy Association, Chicago Joint Board, Retail,
Wholesale & Department Store Union, AFL-CIO, CLC (RWDSU Local
200) representing Pharmacists and Pharmacy Technicians
B. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of
April 22, 2016
C. Any items listed under Sections III and IV

** Also included as a potential Closed Meeting Item/Discussion under Section III.

9:30-9:30/Chairman Wiese

 AGENDA
Friday, May 20, 2016 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

V.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources

VI.

Recommendations, Discussion / Information Item
A.

Strategic planning discussion
Discussion will continue through the Finance Committee Meeting
scheduled for 10:00 A.M., following this meeting.

9:30-9:35/Gladys Lopez

9:35-10:00/Dr. John Jay Shannon

VII. Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Wiese
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Richardson-Lowry and (TBD)

** Also included as a potential Closed Meeting Item/Discussion under Section III.

 