HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: December 4, 2015
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Friday, December 11, 2015 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

9:00/Chairman Wiese

II.

Public Speakers

9:00-9:05

III.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources

9:05-9:35/Gladys Lopez

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of October 23, 2015

9:35-9:40/Chairman Wiese

B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement-related matter – approval of:

9:40-9:45/Gladys Lopez

i. Negotiated wages and healthcare changes for:
• Illinois Fraternal Order of Police (FOP), representing Stroger Hospital
Police Officers
C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

9:45-9:55

Report from Chief of Human Resources
Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement-related matter (see Item IV(B))
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

** Also included as a potential Closed Session Item/Discussion under Section V.

 AGENDA
Friday, December 11, 2015 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Wiese
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Collens and Richardson-Lowry

 