Cook County Health and HoSpitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
April 24, 2009

ATTACHMENT #3

April 24, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda Item #8

Contract Syn0psis

Vendor: David Gomez and Associates

Following evaluation of responses to an issued Request for Proposals, David Gomez and
Associates was one of the Executive Search Firms chosen and recommended to (and
approved by) the Board.

David Gomez and Associates will be retained under a two year contract (to 
upon approval of the Board) to assist in the recmitment of quali?ed candidates
for speci?c key andfor hard to ?ll positions that the Chief Executive Of?cer might
determine (on an individual case basis) as appropriate for search assignment placement
with the Vendor.

A ?xed professional fee of 25% of the value of the total ?rst year?s cash compensation
(base, any sign?on bonus, any ?rst year performance bonus) has been negotiated for each
search assignment that might be given to the Vendor. This fee represents a discount from
the usual and customary fee of 33% by this Vendor.

The estimated fee will be paid in incremental steps (1/3 upon assignment of a search
project, 113 due 45 days after initiation of search assignment, and U3 due 10 days after
the selected candidate?s acceptant of an offer and mutually agreed upon start date. The
?nal invoice will re?ect any adjustments necessary between the original estimated fee
and the ?nal total professional fee, based upon the actual ?rst year?s total cash
compensation amount.

Direct expenses in conjunction with a particular search assignment such as candidate
interview expenses will be billed during the search project.

The contract complies with all necessary Cook County requirements, has been reviewed
and approved by the States Attorney?s Of?ce, and reviewed by the County Purchasing

Agent?s Office and County Contract Compliance.

Funds for this contract are included in the FY 2009 Budget within budget unit 890.

 

 



DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM I

APR 24 2009

BY some 015

 

CONTRACT FOR SERVICE BETWEEN
THE COUNTY OF COOKICODK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
SYSTEM AND
David Gomez Associates International Co., Inc.

This Contract is made and entered into by and henveen the County of Cook, Illinois, a body
politic and corporate, C?County") through its Cook Cormty Health and Hospitals System
(?System?), and David Gomez a Associates International Co., Inc.
with its principal place of business at 20 N. Clark Street. Suite 2900

Chicago. IL seem.
WHEREAS, the System makes health care services available to persons who reside in

Cook County, Illinois, regardless of their ability to pay, including the provision of health care to

the indigent 1n a pro?cient and compassionate manner, and performs this function through the
System which, through its health care delivery system, provides ambulatory and hospital health
services; and, .

WHEREAS, the System requires the following services: Search firm services to find and
recruit candidates for various high level positions for the Health System (?Services") and

WHEREAS, the Contractor rs willing and able to supply the Services on the terms and
conditions provided and to consideration for the fees set forth herein; and;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual undertakings herein

- set forth, the parties agree as follows:
I. SCQPE W03

The Contractor agrees to perform the Services that are described in Exhibit A. Scam of Work,
11 

This Contract shall commence on the date for which the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System authorizes execution of the Contract. Upon the date authorized by the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System,? the Connector shall commence the provision of Services for a term
of W611i? four (24) months. This Contract may be extended upon the mutual'agl'cement 0f
Contractor and the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board (?System Board").

In. Quanuanrrorv AND PAYMENT

Compensation and Payment shall bemade as set forth in Exhibit B, gamer-rt Terms.

IV. 

This Contract incorporates and rs subject to the provisions attached hereto as Part 11,antitled

?oral Conditions Snap]! $19 Source.

DRAFT -

 

DRAFT

V. EXHIBHE

The Contract incorporates the fountains-Exhibits attached hereto:

Exhibit A, Song; 9f Wage; and
Exhibit B. Eam-

VI. . ORDER OF PEQEDEECE

In the event that there is a con?ict between or among any of the terms and conditions of an}! if
the documents described below (which are collectively referred to herein as the the
order of precedence to be used in interpreting the documents. ??orn highest to lowest 1n 
and precedence, shall be as follows:

(1) Part Contract;
(21 Part II, General Conditions;
(3) Exhibit A, Smment of Work: and

(4) Exhibit B, 
(5) Cook County Certi?cation and Execution Forms.

END OF PART I

DRAFT

COPE ORK

1. am SMARY:

'Ihe Cook County Health and Hospitals System is in need of extemal expertise in the
area of creative to assist with the successful ?tting of senior and other hard to
recruit positions screw the System over the course ofthe next (24) month period.
David Gomez dc Associates, Inc. rs a national search ?rm headquartered' in Chicago

with clients spanning multiple industries. In business for over thirty years, will bring an
inclusive proprietary database and expat sourcing and research strategies to each search
asaignmentthatmighthe inorder'to assistwiththerecruitmentof
accomplished candidates for key andfor hard to ?ll positions across the System. -

II. SERVICES:

An ovendew of the scope of work to be performed by deliverable: and
anticipated project followt:

For each assignment, we generate a new pool ofprospective candidates speci?cally appropriate
to thatsearch. ofottr' entire ?rm, we ensmethat each candidate
pool represents an extensive group of diverse, highly quali?ed individualswith the credentials
andpersonsl qualities thatthe search committee rs seeking. We are adept at?nding
acconquished candidates who are artimlate, visionary, innovative and ethical. We focus on
sourcing candidates who can eti?eetively drive progress in an emriromnent that' :s adverse to

doings.
A. Needs Assessment
Initial Consultation

Each project begins with a kickoff meeting that includes the BoardJSesrch 
Principal, and 136ch Proiect Lad. This step in the process consists of Spending
time onsite with our clients to build the homework for a success?rl search through
conducting a thorough needs analysis:
I Institution?s operations and objectives
0 Institution's alone
I Technical requirement ofthe role
De?ne dimensions for job success
Expmiences
Competencies
Knowledge
Personal Characteristics
Thorough Candidate Pipeline

000000

 

 

DRAFT

WSW the process, we ?nd 'it vital to hold meetings with the Search
candidatepipeline. mend anymm
intelligencegathued.

B. Stu-stew

Creating Shutegy:
Role Description
0 Weakethein?irmation gatheredthrough 
description and candidate pro?le.
a The role desaiption describes in detail the company, the role, reeponsihilities, goals
and key challenges of the position.

Recruiting Materials .
- Once the role description has been developed, DGnitA will work to ensure that we
have a ?Career Opportunity Announcement? packet distributed to all quali?ed
applicants seeking selection fortlteposition.
1 The packet will include a position pro?le describing the job, community, and
. - 


If required, D'Gci?m will develop an application packet that will he dishibtded to

quali?ed applicants. This will cum all applicants go through the same consistent
process.

Target List

I The target list is based on client input. competition and our induct): hmwledge. In

addition, we establish a network by utilizing ?1me and key ioduetl'ycontacts
forrc?mals.

(2. Identifying Potential candidate

Channels of Sourcing: 
- 'Na?omiAmm-nlnemsm Placement: We will work with the CCI-IHS's HR o?ice,
will make recommendation: aboutthe snmgie placement intop pctiodicsls
and websites. 

Coid Calling: Contacting ?passive? individuals with demunsh?ated Iceda'ahip
capabilities; seeldag people within Local, County, State, Federal govemment health
instihitions, sndgovemmentagmciee. DuracelatDG?Aistotapintothe 
government health network and pull o?iciais with srelevant mother of years in
leadership roles.

 

DRAFT

I Proposing: Database Semen: men will utilize its search database in order to
circidste the position description though its networks.

I Gorenmsm Agencies mm?Prqfessr?onal' Orginzr?za?om: none will contact the
relevant government agmcies and professional organizations through postings and e-
mails to identify potential candidates among their membership.

1). Condidnte Screening
Warn? [Mews

As potential candidates are identi?ed we have a two part promos:

I We conduct detailed traditional interviews to evaluate their overall quali?cations
including the de?ned dimensions fcrjob moccss (emuienwe, competencies
knowledge, and personal characteristics).

I We conduct behavior-hosed interviews to evahrare desirablefundesireble behaviors
and outcomes. -

Mug 
Alter completing our own intewiews, we provide a detailed Candidate Summary along will:
the results ofour warhead reoomrneod a ?long-list? ofcendidates for our invite for
interviews. The stunmnries will include our assessment candidale's ?t ageinst the
speci?cations, as well as their currem compensation and salary mpeota?ons.

Home Checks

DGJeAbelievesthat ewe-employment reihrencecbeckisec?tical 
prospect you want to hire is investment. People interview welI but have
a record ofnot actually performing as well as they have led on to believe. Therefore, it is
important to check out any cross of doubt or rmcertninty.

Oil-en reference checks will dispel these. Reference checks are also a form of insurance.
Therefore,- all candidates that are selected by and the scaioh committee as ??nalists? -
will be asked to provide working relationship references and personal references. is
responsible for completing the review of the candidates referrer-u in s. timely manner and
any subsequent reference work should it be necessary.

Wound Wrecks I
ones will work with International Investigative Services to conduct detailed antennas
checks. The services they provide include: - 
social 
3* education veri?cation
3' employment veri?cation
criminal cormty search (per county)

DRA.

3- civil seem]:

3* motor vehicle Ieport

aiminal federal dim-let court (nationwide)
civil federal court search (nationwide)

National Climinal Data Base search

Condueting the right screening will reduce risk, reduce matter and allow the ability to
make consistent, setmd hiring derision ..

Speci?c addenda to this main eontreet will he issued for each individual same]: project that is
assigned and accepted to the Contractor, setting out any position speci?c. terms, conditions, and
schedule There is no limit under this main eonmeton thenumbu'ofindiwdual
some]: oontraot. The Canheetormat'
decline a search project if the Contractor feels that it does not have the expertise to 
omnplete the particular asaigmnent. 

or. counter mmnON

'I'heprindpaleonmetfortheccmis with
the System o?iees being heated at 19:10 Wed Poll: Street, Suite 220, Chicago, IL, 60612.

The principal contact for the Contractor will be David P. Gomez, President 5: CEO, with of?ces
being located at 20 North Clark Street, Suite 2900, Chinese, IL 60602.

 

 

EXHIBIT 
PAYMENT TERMS

Each search project that is assigned and accepted will have speci?c terms, conditions, and
schedules, all of which will be covered within separately executed Addenda to this main

contract.

Unless speci?cally addressed within each Addendum, the general professional fee for each
search is on a non-contingent basis and will not exceed 25% of the ?rst year's cash

compensation for the position the Contractor is engaged to assist with. For fee calculation
purposes, cash compensation includes base salary, sign?up, andlor incentive bonus payments for

the ?rst year of employment.

In addition to the professional fees, the Contractor will be reimbursed for client-approved
expenses incurred during the course of a search assignment, such as direct overhead (national
advertisements or brochures, fennel assessment tests conducted on ?nalists, and candidate

intendew travel)

I Professional Fee billing schedule will be as follows:

113 of the estimated fee will be paid upon execution of any individual search Addenda
U3 of the estimated fee will be due 45 days after initiation of the engagement

MS of the estimated fee will be due 10 days after the candidate?s acceptance of offer and
mutual agreement of start date

Any pro-approved expenses will be included in the above listed billings.

If an individual search assignment is canceled before completion, the. (2201-11-15 will be
responsible only for the professional fees billed to date plus actual expenses. -

 

DRAFT

GENERAL CONDITIONS


SOLE SOURCE .
ONTENTS
OC-SI SUECONTRACTINO OR ASSIONMENTOF CONTRACT OR CONTRACT
FUNDS 3
(TC-02 PERSONNEL 4
.GC-D3 INSURANCE 4
(EC-04 INSPECTION AND RESPONSIBILITY 4
ICC-05 INDEMNIFICATION 
PAYMENT 5
(EC-07 PREPAID FEES 
OC-OS TAXES 5
OC-OS PRICE REDUCTION 6
CONTRACTOR CREDITS 6
OC-I I DISPUTES 6
DEFAULT 
REMEDIES 
CONTRACTOR REMEDIES 7
DO I DELA vs - 
COIS MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS 8
PATENTS COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES 8J9
. OC-I COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS 9
OC- MINORITY AND WOMEN BUSINESS INTERPRISE - - 9m
(TC-20 MATERIAL DATA SAFETY SHEET - I I
(IE-21 CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR - 11
(IO-22 ACCIDENT REPORTS ll
EEC-23 USE OF THE COUNTY PREMISES I2
(TC-24 GENERAL NOTICE 12
TERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT 12
AND WARRANTIES 13

3.03.011!

tic-27 STANDARD OF DELIVERADLES
=23 DELIVERY
ctr-29 QUANTITIES
(EC-30 CONTRACT INTERPRETATIDN
GC-JI CONFIDENTIALITY AND OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
ctr-32 AUDIT
GOVERNING LAW
(at-34 WAIVER
Gc-as ENTIRE CONTRACT
- EEC-36 FORCE MAJEURE DR UNAVOIDABLE DELAYS

09.37 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS: N0 THIRD PARTY 

BENEFICIARIES

8.0.3.075!

DRAFT

[3
I3
I4

I4II5

DRAFT

on ASSIGNMENT or conrnacr on conraacr
Funns

Once awarded. this Contract shall not he subcontracted or assigned, in whole or in part. without the
advance written approval of the Furthering Agent. which approval shall be granted or withheld at
the sole discretion of the Pro-chasing AgenL in no case. however. shall such approval relieve the
Contractor from its obligations or cinngc the terms of the Contract. The Contractor shall not
uanst'er or assign any Contract ?rnds or any interest therein due or to become due without the
advance mitten approval ofthe Purchasing Agent. The unauthorized subcontracting min-1mm!
or the Contract. in whole or in part. or the unauthorized transfer or assignment of any Contract
funds. either in circle or in part. orany interest therein. which shall bedue or are to become due the
Counselor shall have no elfeeton the County and are null and void.

Prior to the commencement of the Contract. the Centraetor shall iderrtili,r in writing to the
?mimics fill: any and all subcontractors it intends to rrse in the performance of the
Contract; The Purchasing Agent shall have the right to disapprove any subcontractor.
identi?cation to the Purchasing Agent shall be in addition to any communications
with County of?ces other than the Purchasing Agent. All subcontractors shall-be subject to the

terms of this Contract Contractor shall incorporate into all subcontracts all ofthe provisions ofthe 

Contract 1arbitrl'r affect sirch subcontract. Copies ol?subcontracls shall be provided to the Purchasing
Agent upon request. - -

 

(loom. whether diam-sure is Mufti or; mg; the Enclosure.

The County reserves the right to prohibit any person from entering any County Facility for any
reason. All contractors and subcontractors of' the Contractor shall be accountable to the Director of
the Using Department or his derrignee while on any County property and shall abide by all rules
and regulations imposed by the County.



'1

10

DRAFT

(JG-02 PERSONNEL

The quality. cxpuience and availability ofpersonnel employed by the Connector is ofthc essence.
The Contractor shall provide the County with a list ol?all key personnel to be used on the mint
and their designated assignment. The list shall include the quali?cations of each person named.
11"? "113? ll any request, in writing. the Cumulur to ternove any ofthc Contractor?s
Iii-?lm personnel cause and ?rmish to the County other acceptable personnel with
thirty (30) days of noti?cation. Notwithstanding the County?s approval of Contractor's personnel.
the Contractor shall be fully responsible to County for all work performed prssuant to this Contract
by Contractor's employees. subcontractors or others who may be retained by the Contractor truth

the approval ofthe County.
cons INSURANCE

Contractor shall purchase and maintain at all times during the term oF this Contract insurance
coverage which is satisfactory to the County and satisfactorily the Connector agarnst
claims and liabilities which arise or could arise because ofthc perl?onrranoe or nonperfonnancc of
the Contract. All itsurance required hereInrcler strait meet the requirements of the County's
Department ol?Rislt Management and shall name the as an additional lretured unless such
designation is unavailable due to commercial practices in the insurance industry as to particular
type of coverage. With the exception of certi?cates required to be submitted with the Proposal-
Contract shall deliver to the County satisfactory certi?cates evidencing compliance svitlt this
insurance provision prior to commencing performance under the Contract. .

INSPECHBNAND RESPONSIBILITY

At any and at all times during the tann of the Conn-act and at any location where the Contract is
performed. the County shall have a right to inspect any Deliverable: provided in carrying out this
Contract The Contractor shall he solely responsible for the quality and standards of? all
Dclicerahlec ?rmished undcr this Contract. Deliverahlcs may be rejected by the Ptc'chesing Agent

earlier the Director of the Using Department it" they fail to meet Contract requirements or are
provided in a manner which does not meet Conn-act requirements. In the event ofarrch rejection.
Deliverables shall be replaced andr'or re-perl?ormed try the Contractor and at no additional
.cost to the County. Any Deliverables rejected shall be removed within a reasonable time from the
premises of the County at the entire expense of?the Contractor. alter notice has been given by the
County to the Contractor that such Deliver-ables have been rejected.

3.03.079.

Ii

 INDEMNIFICATION

The Contractor covenants and agrees to indemnify and save harmless the County and its
mounissioners. o?icials, employees. agents and representatives. and their respective hire.
streamers and assigns. from and against any and all costs. expenses. atton-rey's fees. losses.
darnagcs and liabilities incurred or suffered directly or indirectly item or attributable to any claims
arising out or or incident to the performance or nonperihrmanec of the Contract by the Contractor.
or the acts or omissions ofthe of?cers. agents. contractors. subcontractors. licensees or
invitees ofthe Contractor. The Contractor expressly wider-stands and agrees that any Prn'l'orrnance
Head or insurance protection required of the Contractor. or otherwise provided by the Contractor.
shall in no way limit the responsibility to indemnity theCounty as hereinabove provided.

Git-06 PAYMENT

All invoices submitted by the Contractor shall be in accordance with the cost provisions contained
in the Contract Documents and shall contain tr detailed description of the Dcliverebles for tvhich
payment Is requested. All invoices shall re?ect the amounts invoiced by and the amounts pool to
the Contractor as of the date of the invoice. and shall be submitted together with a properly
completed County Voucher form Invoices for new elm-gee shall not include "past due"
amounts. it" any. which amounts must be set forth on a separate invoice. No payments shall be
made with respect to invoices which do not include the County Voucher form or which otherwise
fail to comply with the requirements of this paragraph. Connector shall not be entitled to invoice
the County for any-late fees or other penalties.

oc-or new. sees

in. the event this Contract is terminated by either party. for curse or otherwise. and the Counii' hi?
prepaid for any Deliverahies. Contractor shall retinal to the County. on' a prorated basis to the
re?ective date of tennination. all amounts prepaid for Deliverables not actually provided as of the
eil'ective date of the termination. The refund shall he made within Fourteen {14) days of the

effective date 'trl?terminntim.
GC-?il TAXES

Federal Excise Tax does not apply to materials ptuehased by the County by virtue of Exemption
Certi?cate No. Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tart. Use Tax and Municipal Retaliel?s'
Occupation Tax do not apply to deliverablcs. materials or services purchased by the County bi'
virtue of statute. The price or prices quoted herein shall include any and all other t'ederalandlor
state. direct andicr indirect taxes which apply to this Contract. The County's State of Sales
Tax Exemption identification No. is 5-9993-2til3-05.



l2

?t 23. 
I: n. 3" u-?n 

0009 PRICE REDUCTION

ll? at any time after the contract shard. Contractor makes a general price reduction in the price of
any of the Deliverables. the equivalent price reduction based on similar quantities andfor
considerations shall apply to this Contract for the duration of the Contract period. For mm of
this Section EEC-09. Price Reduction. a general price reduction shall include reductions in 111:
effective price charged by Contractor by reason ofrebates. financial incentives. discounts. value
points or other bene?ts with respect to the pro-chase ofthe Deliverabies. Such price reductions shall
be etl?ective at the same time and in the same manner as the reduction Contractor makes in the price

of the Dcliverables to its prospective customers generally.
GC-lti commerce cnantrs

To the extent the Contractor gives credits toward future purchases of goods or sen-tiles. 
incentives. discounts. value points or other bene?ts based on the purchase of the materials or
services provided tor under this Contract. such credits belong to the County and not any speci?c
using departmem. Contractor shall re?ect any such credits on its invoices and in the amounts it

invoices the County.
GC-ll DISPUTES

Any dispute arising under the Contract between the County and Contractor shall be decided by the
Purchasing Agent. The complaining party shall submit a written staternent detailing the dispute
and specifying the specific relevant Contract provisionts) to the Ptachasing Agent. Upon request
of the Purchasing Agent. the party complained against shall respond to the complaint in writing
within live days of such request. The Purchasing Agent will reduce his decision to writing and
mail or otherwise furnish a copy thereof to the Contractor and the Director of the Using
Department. The decision oi?the Purchasing Agent will be final and binding. Dispute mlu?on as
provided herein shall be a condition precedent to any other action at law or in equity. Humm-
unless a notice is issued by the Purchasing Agent indicating that additional tints is required ID
review a dispute. the parties may mercies their contractual remedies. il?any. it'no decision is mad:
'within sixty [60} days Following noti?cation to the Purchasing Agent of a dispute. N0 inihrence
shall he dream from the absence of a decision by the Purchasing Agent. Notwithstanding a dispute.
ConhEctor shall continue to discharge all its obligatiot?. duties and responsibilities 5:1 531111 in 1h:
Cataract during any dispute resolution proceeding unless otherwise agreed to by the County in
writing.

8.03.DTR.

13

DR:

GC-IZ DEFAULT

Contractor shall be in default hereunder in the event ofo material breach by Contractor ofany term
or condition of this Contract including. but not limited to. a representation or mil" where
Contractor has failed to cure such breach within ten (til) days alter written notice ofbreach is given
to Contractor by the County. setting forth the nature ot?arch breach.

in the event Contractor shall breach any material terms or conditions of this Contract on more than
one occasion during any twelve month period during the term hereof; or in the event Contractor
expresses an unwillingness or inability to continue performing the Contract in accordance with Its
terms. the County may. at its option. declare the Conan-actor to be in default and the County shall be
entitled to exercise all available remedies including. but not limited to. termination of the Contract.
without affording the Contractor ?rrther opportunity to eta-e such breach. Failure of County to give
written notice of breach to the Contractor shall not. be deemed to he a waiver of the right
to assert such breach at a loter'time. should the Contractor conunit a subsequent breech of this

Contract.

County shall he in default hereunder ifany material breach of the Conn-act by County nestles which.
is not cared by the County within ninety (90) days after written notice has been grven by
Contractorto the County. setting forth the nature of'sueh breech.

68-13 REMEDIES

Following notice of material branch to Contractor. tlte County reserves the right to tridthold
payments othenviso owed to Contractor until such time as Contractor has cured the breach.

if the Contractor fails to remedy antateriat breach during the ten (In) day cure period pursuant to
General Condition Deihtlit. or if Contractor It subsequent material brooch Wiihiti El
twelve month period or expresses an unwillingness or inability to continue performing the Contract
irt accordance with its tenns. the County shall have the rightto tenninate this Connect upon written
notice to the Contractor which shall set forth the re?ective date ofsueh termination.

In addition. the County shall have'the right to praaue all remedies in law or equity.

GC-ld CONTRACT REMEDIES

if the County has been noti?ed ofhreach and fails to remedy the breach during the ninetyig?l d3? -
cure period to Getter-a] Condition GC-IZ. Default. the Contractor shall have the right to
terminate this Contract upon not less than thirty {30) days prior written notice to the County. which
notice shall set forth the effective date oftennination.

Contractor shall have the right to prose: all remediu available in lower equity. In all cases the
Connectors damages shalt be those actual provable darnages not to exceed the mount ofthe
Contract as awarded by the Cool: County Board of Commissioners tests all amounts paid to
Contractor. in no event shall Contractor be entitled to any consequential damages. tut-capeetive of
the exercise of remedies hereunder. Contractor shall not disrupt the County?s operations. or
repossess any compenetrt thereoii 

2.03.07]!



t" "a

bun?t.

FT

14

GC-IS DELAYS

Contractor agrees that no charges oreiaims for damages shall be made by Contractor for any d?i?YS
or hindrances from any earrse whatsoever during the progress ofany portion of this Contract.

GC-IG MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS

Th? parties may from time to time during the tents of the Contract make modi?cations and

ascend-nears to the Contract but only as provided in this section. - Such: modi?cations and

WmeB Sh?ll only be made by mutual ogre-critical. in writing. Modi?cations and amendments
which ind ividualiy or crumlatively result in additional cost ofSldiOG?li or greater or which extend

the term of the Contract by thirtyI (30) days or more shall not be deemed as authcrimd without ?13
approval or the Cook County Board of Commissioners. Modifications and amendments which

increase cost by less than or which do not extend the term ol'the Contract by more than

thirty [30) only be made with the written approval ofthe Purchasing Agent.

Subject to the foregoing. the Director of the Using Department my. by written order. make
changes with respect to the dates of delivery and places of performance of the Contract. provided
that any such changes shall not increase the Contract prior: or the time required for Contract

performance.

Contractor is hereby noti?ed that. except for modi?cations and anrendrnents which are made in
accordance with this Section 68-16. Modi?cations and Amendments. no County department or
with!? ?1me authority 10 make my modification or amendment to this Contract.

PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSEE

Contractor shall furnish the Director of the Using Department with all licences required for 
County to utilize any software. including ?nnonre or middlewore. provided by Contincmf?? PM
. of the Deliverables. Such licenses shall be ciearly marked with a reference to the number of this
County Contract. Contractor shall also Furnish a copy of such licenses to the Purchasing Agent.
Unless otherwise stated in IllESl: Contract documents. such licensee shall be perpetual and shall not
limit the number oi?pcroons who may utilize the so?ware on beholi?oi'the Cormty. -

Contractor agrees to hold and indemnify the Comm its 0mm ?at-"13v Wilkins and
affiliates from and defend. at its own expense (including reasonable attomeys'. accountants? and
consultants? fem). any suit or proceeding brought against County hand 3 claim that 
ownership and'or use of equipment. hardware and software or any part lbw? Pm'r'idcd 1" 
County or utilized in performing Contractor's services constitutes an infringement ofany patent.
copyright or license orany other property right.

o.ns.o'ra

15

GC-l'i PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES 

In the even! the use of any equipment, hardware or sofluore or any part thereof is enjoined.
Contractor with all reasonable speed and due diligence slot! provide or othenulse secure for
CWHIY. at the Contractor?s election. one of the following: the right to continue use of the
equipment. hardware or soltware: an equivalent system having the Speci?cations as provided at
this Contract; or Contractor shall modify the system or its component parts so that they become
Iron-infringing while performing in a substantially similar tumor to the original system. meeting
the requirements oi" this Contract.

econ COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS

The Contractor shall observe and comply with due laws. ordinances. regulations and codes of' the
Federal. State. County and other local government agencies which? may in any manner affect the
performance ol'the Contract including. but not limited to. those County Ordinances set forth in the
Certi?cations attached hereto and incorporated herein. Assurance of compliance with thus
requirement by the Connectors employees. agents or subcontractors shall be the ?If

the Contractor.

The Contracton shall secure and pay for all federal. state and local licenses. pennits and fees
required hereunder. . .

coon Loo BUSINES gamma
xco IN I tort use-275-34the policy ol'lhc County of Cook to protect discrimination in the award ofor
participation in County contracts and to eliminate arbitrary barriers for participation. as both prime
?and subcontractors. in such contracts by local businesses certified as Mhrority Business 
(MBE) and Wanton-owned Business Enterprises in furtherance of this policy. the Couk
County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Mirtority- and Women-owned Bushteso Enterprise
Ordinance (the "Ordinance?; which establishes a ?best cl'forls" goal of awarding not less than
thirty-?ve of the annual total dollar of professional and consulting service contracts
and sole source agreements to certi?ed MBEs and WBEs.

B. A contractor may achieve the contract MBEIWBE participation goals by its status
as a MBE or WBE: by entering into ajolnt venture with one or more MBEs andIor ?#355: by
subcontracting a portion of the work to one or more MBEs or 91385: by entering into tr Mentor-
Agreement with rt BE or by the indirect: participation oi'MBEs or in other
aspects of the contractor's business: or by a combination of the foregoing.

C. A contractor's failure to carry out its MBEIWEE commitments in the course ofa
conlreclor?s perronrrance shall constitute a material breach and ifsuch breach is not
appropriately cored. may result in the termination of the contract or such other remedy authorized

by the Ordinance as the County deems appropriate.

3.03.013.

16

 



rr. gaggraao suam?nr?

To be considered responsive to the requirements oi?the Ordinance: a contractor for
professional and consulting service contracts shall submit items A. 3 and listed below: and a
contractor for sole source agreements. shall subunit ltemsA and 3 listed below. All documration
submitted by a contractor shall be reviewed by the Contract Compliance Administrator. Failure to
submit one ol?the Items required in accordance with these germal conditions shall be cause to
comiricrthe contractor?s proposal non-responsive and be rejected.

A. .m?maarloa?lm

Each connector shall submit with its proposal. a copy of its current internal af?l?rrmatlve
action plan. no intents! aliinnative action plan, contractor shall submita statement
storing wiry contractor has no such plan. In lieu of an internal affirmative action plan. a contractor
may Film? '1 rit?ll! of its current Letter of Compliance for the United States Department of Labor.

Oli'roe of Federal Contract Compliance Hearst-cs.

EMWW

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal. supporting documentation which evidences
ell'orts the contractor has taken ht attempting to achieve the County's "best e?'orts" MBWBE

participation goals.

c. Wm
Each contractor shall submit with its proposal. a statement which discloses how the

contractor intends to maximize the use of' its MBEIWBE professionals in the course ofporl'orming
the contract.

Illi. 

If the Colony of Cool: dctonnines that the contractor has failed to comply with its
contractual commitments or any portion ofthe Ordinance. it will until? the contractor oi?such non-
compliance and may take any and all appropriate actions as set forth within the Ordinance.

IV. TIN RD-K 

The contractor shall comply with the reporting and record-keeping requirements as may be
established by the Contract Compliance Administrator. Upon awardof a conuncL contractor is
responsible for acquiring all nmssary County reporting and record-keeping forms which will be
made available in the Dl?ce Compliance.

5.03.073. 10

17

DRAFT.

V. YM 0

Compliance with M33 and WEE mquirements will not diminish or supplant eqrnl
Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights provisions as otherwise required by law as they relate to
contractor and subcontractor obligations.

MATE RJAL DATA SAFETY SHEET

Where required under the ?Toxic Substance Disclosure To Employees Act". 
Compiled Statutes. 2092. 820 255?. Contractor shall submit with each delivery of

- a Material Safety Dina Sheet. .
CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR

The Contractor agrees to inform the County on a timely basis of all of the Contractor's interests. if
any. which are or which the (Bonn-actor reasonably believes nay be incompatible with any interest
of the County. The Contractor shall take notice ofsnd comply with the Cook County Lobbyist
Registration Ordinance (No. 93-0?22. Neither the Contractor nor any of its employees.
agents or subcontractors shall use for business or personal gain. or make other Improper use of.
con?dential information which is acquired in connection with the Connect. To the extent
Contractor will have access to the County?s protected health information in performing its
responsibilities under th is Contract. Connector shall contact the Chief Privacy Of?cer for the Using
Departmentts} and shall execute the County's hotness associate agreement prior to pe?'cnninn any
responsibilities which involve protected health information.

Git-22 ACCIDENT REPORTS

Contractor shall provide the Purchasing Agent and the Director of the Using Department with
prompt written notification (no later then twerrty-t?our (24) hours) of any occurrence. on County
premises or ohm-ire. which pertains in any way to this Contract and which results in outer
badily injury to employees or third parties or property damage. The report strait include the name
of injured. ii' any: nature of' the injured person's employer. if any: the date. time and
location of the occurrence: description of the extent of andlor damage: the tunnels) Dr
witnesses: the names oi?any providers known to have provided team for injuries sustained: and
such other information as may be required by the County. 111e Contractor shall notify the local
police regarding any occurrence requiring an of?cial police record. The report submitted to the
Conroy shoald indicate whether-the police were noti?ed and. it'so. the ncmherofthe police report.

3.113.07R 11

13

BIC-23 USE OF COUNIT PREMISES AND RESOURCES

Contractor shall confer with the Director oflhe Using Department to ascertain l'ull'ltnowledge of all
mice and regulations of the County Facilities relative to this Contract and shall eaten all of its
employees. agents - and subcontractors to comply therewith. The Contractor shall con?ne the
Operations of its employees, agents and subcontractors on County premises to the per-romance of
the Connect consistent with limits indicated by laws. ordinances. permits andfor direction Didn't
Director of the Using Department and shall not encumber the premises with materials or debris. In
perfonning the Contract. the Contractor shall not cause or permit a condition that endangers the
safety clothes and shall not load or permit any part to be loaded with a weight that
will endanger the safety of the strucnrre orany persons.

(EC-24 GENERAL NOTICE

All notices mquired pursuant to this Contract shall be in writing. and addressed to the parties at their
teapective addremes set forth below. All such notices shall be deemed duly given if hand delivered
or if deposited in the United States mail. postage prepaid. registered or certi?ed. return recerpt
requested. Notice as provided herein does not active service ol'summons or ptoceas.

TO THE COUNTY: 
COOK COWTY PURCHASING AGENT
its North Clark Street. Room I0l8
Chicago. Illinois 60602
include County Contract Number in all notices]

TDTHE CONTRACTOR:

At address provided on the Execution Pages or as otherwise indicated in writing to Countir
Purdtasing Agent in a Written doctonent which. in hold face type. retbrenccs the name of 1113
Contractor. the County Contract Number and dates OF CHANGE lN


TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT

The County may terminate this Contract. or any portion. at any time by notice in writing from the
Courrty to the Contractor. Unless otherwise stated in the notice. the effective tint: of such
termination shall be three business days after the date the notice oitcnnination is mailed by the
Cattery. If the County elects to tenninatc the Contract in ?rtl. unless otherwise speci?ed in the
notice of tennination. the Contractor stroll cease per-romance and shall 
tender to the County all Detlverahlee. whether completed or in process. if the Connor {tests 10
terminate the Connect in part. unless otherwise speci?ed in the notice of partial tenninatlolt. the
Contractor shall immediately cease permanence of dance portions of the Connect which are
terminated and shall tender to the County all Deliverabies retatingto said portions or the
Contract. whether completed or in process. Contractor shall refrain thorn incurring any 
. costs with respect to portions of the Contract which are terminated except as speci?cally @9de

by the Porchasing Agent.

3.03.0?3 13

19

 GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES

The Contractor shall furnish all guarantees and osmotic: applicable to the Deliverable: to the
Director of the Using Department prior to or at the time of delivery. All Del iverables shall be
covered by the most favorable commercial mundane and guarantees the Conn-actor gives to any
customer for the same or substantially similar Deliverabios organises. The rights and remedies 50
provided shall be in addition to and shall not limit any rights afforded to County under this

Contact

To the extent Contractor provides Deliverables manufactured by another etnity. Contractor shall

transfer original product nan-ant}- and any rights to manufaettuer's related services to the County
and shall submit all appropriate documentation of said transfer to the Director of' the Using
Department prior to or at the time the Contractor tendersthe Deliverables.

STANDARD OF DELIVERABLFS

539% as may be expressly stated in the Special Conditions or Speci?cations of this Contract only
new. originally manufactured Deliverables Will be accepted by the County. The County will not
amt?!? Deliverable; that have been refurbished. rebuilt. restored or renovated in any manner.
in addition. experimental materials will not be acceptable. Deliverables not produced by insular
production methods audior which have not ban o??ered sale to the public through accepted
trade clinic-leis fora reasonable period of time prior to the cotraneneernent of the Contract

will be considered experimental.
G?c?za usurvaav

All Contract Booth shipped to the County shall be shipped FREIGHT
PREPAID. Arrangements shall be oracle in advance by the Contractor in order that the County may

arrange for receipt of' the materials. -

Truck deliveries will be accepted before 3:00 PM. on weekdays only. No deliveries will be
accepted on Sawrdays. Sundays or County Holidays. The county is not responsible for 
delays due to waiting times ibr loading and unloading atdoeit locations. 

The quantity of Contract Goods delivered by uncle ascertained item a weight certi?cate
issued by a duly licensed Public Weight-buster. In the ease of delivery by rail. weight will be
ascertained from bill of leding from originating line. but the County reserves the right to re-tveigh
at the nearest available railroad scale. 

The County reserves the right to add new delivery locations or delete previously listed 
locations as required during the Contract period. The only restriction regarding tilt: Cutmty?s rich!
to add new delivery locations shall be that any new or additional location than be within the
geographical boundaries of the County ofCoolt.

a.o3.ova 13

20

 

ones?

GC-39 QUANTITIES

Any quantities ol?inditated in the Propom] Pages for the perfonrtence ol'the Contract are estimates
for the purpose of determining an approxinrcte'total Contract amount and may not he the actual
'qtrantlties required by the County during the term of the Contract. The County reserves the right to
increase or decrease such quantities attire Contract price to correspond to the actual needs ot?the
County. if' the County increases the quantities required. any melt increase shall be subject to an
agreed written amendment in the. Connect Amount. The County will be obligated to order and papr
?if 0'11? such quanti?es as are fro-.11 time to time ordered. delivered. and accepted on purchase

orders issued by the Purchasing Agent.
(EC-30 CONTRACT INTERPRETATION

Whenever the singular is used herein. the masculine. feminine and netner gender shall be deemed
to include the others. The headings of articles, paragraphs and sections in this Contract are
included for convenience only and shall not he considered by either party in construing the
meaning of this Contract. If any provision or clause of this Contract shall be held to be invalid.
such provision or clause shall he deleted fi-om lite Contract and the Connect shall be construed to

give client to the remaining portions thereof.

This Contract shall be interpreted and construed based upon the following order of precedence-of
component parts. Soch order or precedence shall govem to resolve all cases oi'con?ict. ambigurty

win-consistency.

l. Addendeifany.

2. Execution Forms

3. Speci?cation.

4. Special Conditions.-
5. General Conditions.
6. instruction to Bidders.
7, Legal Advertisement.
3. Bid ProposaL

TIC-31 CONFIDENTIALITY AND OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

Contractor acknowledges and agrees that information regarding this Contract is confidential and
shall not be disclosed. directly. indirectly or by implication. or be used by Contractor in on! ?lif-
during the term of?this Contract or at any time therea?er. osteopt soler as required in 515
. course oi'Contractor?s performance hereunder. Contractor shall comply with the applicable privacy
laws and regulations affecting County and will not disclose any records. materials. 
other data to any third patty. Connector shall not have the right to compile and dis?b?te 51515513?!
analyses and reports utilizing data derived li'otn information or data obtained from Cotmty without
the prior written approval of Cotmty. In the? event such approval is given. any 51ml! 
published and distributed by Connector shall be furnished to County without charge.

8-03-0711 

21



60-31 CONFIDENTIALITY AND OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 

All documents. data. studies. reports. 1Work product or product created as a result of the
performance of the Contract (the ?Documents? shall be included in the Deliverable: and shall be
the property of the County of Cook. It shall be a breach of this Contract for the Contractor to
taproduce or use any documents. data. studies. reports. work product or proth obtained from the
County of Cook or any Documents created hereby. whether such reproduction or use is 
Conn-actor?s own purposes or for those ofany third party. During the perfonnance ot'the Contract
Contractor shall be responsible of any loss or damage to the Documents while they are in
Contractor's-possession. and any such loss or damage shall be restored at the expense of- the
Contractor. The County and its designeec stroll be afforded full access to the Documents and the

work at all times.
(RC-32 AUDIT: EXAMINATION OF RECORDS

The Cone-actor agrees that the Cool: County Auditor or any of its duly authorized 
strait. until expiration of?ine (3) years utter the ?nal payment under the Contract. have access and
the right to examine any boot-Lt. documents. pupae. canceled check. bani: statemmla 
and other invoices. and records of the Contractor related to the Contract. or to Contractor?s
compliance with condition or provision tt-iereoi?. The Connector shall be responsible for
establishing and maintaining records suf?cient to document the costs associated with performance

under the testes ofthis Contract. 

?the Contractor further agrees that it shall include in all of its subcontracts hereunder a provision to
the effect that the subcontractor agrees that the Cool: County Auditor oratorIr ttfits duly authorized
representatives strait. tutti! capitation of three (3) years after ?nal payment under the subcoom
have access and the right. to examine any books. documents. patient. checks. bank
statements. purveyors and other invoices and records ofsuch subcontractor involving tramctions
relating to the subcontract. or to such subcontractor-'5 compliance with any term. condition or
provision therede or unda?thc Coon-act.

in the event the Contractor receives payinent under the Geno-act. reimbursement for which is later
disallowed. by the Conantyr the Contractor shall refund the disallowed meal If! the
can"? 0? W?h at "16 option. the County may credit the amount disallowed from
the neat payment due or to become due to the Contractor under any contract with the County.

a.os.o'ta 15

22

DRAFT

tic-st EXAMINATION or ascorros

To the extent this Contract pertains to Deliverables which may be reimbursable under the
Medicaid or Medicare Programs. Contractor shall retain and make available upon request. for a
period of Four years after ?rmishing services pursuant to this Agreement. the contract. books.
documents and records which are necessary to certi?rthe nature and extent of the costs ol?such
services if requested by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller General
of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives. lt?Contractur carries elderly
01' its duties under the Agreement through a mbcontract with a related organization involving a
value of cost of 310.000.00 or more over a month period. Contractor will cause such
subcontract to contain a clause to the effect that. until the expiration of four years after 
furnishing of any service pursuant to said subcontract. the related organization will oral-re
available upon request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller
General of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives. copies of said
subcontract and any books. documents. records and other data of said related organization that

are necessary to certify the nature and extent of such costs. This paragraph relating to the
retention and production of documents is included because of' possible application of Section
t?olivli i Kl) ol?the Social Security Act to this Agreement: it" this Section should be found to be
inapplicable. then this paragraph shall be deemed inoperative and without force and el'i'ecL

GIT-33 GOVERNING LAW

'li'ris Canuact shall he governed by and construed under the larva of the State of Illinois. The
Contractor irrevocably. agrees that. subject to the County's sole and absolute election to the
. contrary. any action or proceeding in any way. manner or respect arising out either Contract. or
arising from any dispute or coouovemr arising in connection with or related to the Contract. shall
be litigated only in courts 1within the Circuit Court ofCooit County in the City of Chicago; County
of Cook. State of lliinois. and the Contractor consents and submits to thejurisdiction thereof. in
accordance with these provisions. Connector waives any right itrnay have to transfer or change the
venue ol'any litigation brought against it by the County presuant to this Contract.

WAIVER

No term or provision of this Contract shall be deemed waived and no breach consulted to unless
such waiver or consent shall be in visiting and signed by the party claimed to have waived or
consented. The waiver or any such provision shall be strictly limited to the identi?ed provision.

ENTIRE CONTRACT

It is expresst weed that the provisions set forth in this Contract constitute all the understandings
and agreements hooveen the parties. Any prior agreements. promises. negotiations. or
not expressly set forth in this Contract are nine force and street.

5.03.01?! 16

23

DRAFT

FORCE MAJEURE OR UNAVOI DELAYS

Neilhchontractor nor County shall be liable for failing to ?rl?li any obligation under this Contract
if such failure is caused by an event beyond such party?s reasonable control which is not caused by
such party's fault or negligence. Such events shall he limited to acts of God. acts of war. ?res.
lightning. floods. epidemics. or riots.

INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS: N0 THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES

The Contractor and its employees. agents and subcontractors are. for all purposes arising out ofihc
Contract. independent contractors and not unploycca ofthc Comty. It is and
agreed that neither the Contractor nor Contractor?s employees. agents or subcontractors shall he
entitled to any bene?t to Which County employees may be entitled including. but not limited to.
overtime or anomaloyment compensation. irantranoe or retirement bene?ts. worker-5' coum?llD?
or occupational disease bene?ts or other compensation or leave arrangemeats.

Nothing contained herein shall he (Icemed or construed by the parties hereto. or by any third party.
as creating the relationship or principal and cigar-it or or partnership or of joint venturer or any
relationship between the parties hereto other-than that of?indeprnderrl contractors. Nothing herein
shall be construed to confer upon any third parties the stantsot'third party bene?ciary.

ENE QFEEQIION

3.03.013 17

24

INDEX

DIE 8T



UTELIZETION PLEH
LETTER.DF INTENT

TO PERFORM
as SUPPLIER
amnion CONSULTANT)

SAMPLE

PETITION FOR or
MBEIWBE GOALS

Wk CERTIFI OPTIONS


INCORPORATION. COMPLIMCE,
PENALTIES, DISCLOSURE

SOLE PAGE
PARTNERSHIP. SIGNATURE PAGE
SIGNATURE PAGE

rnonosan coon ODUNTY

25

GRAFT

 

EBEE
Ens?1:2

EDS-314

Bug?s/s

EDS-74.3

.5-14f15

Ens-15117I13
305- 19/20/21


EDS-25

3.138

DRAFT


loom.

-) . STATES that ell REF-ME firms included' in this Plan ete
sensitize! by at least one of the entities listed in the General
on one. 

I. Bloom'sfoaoroota's mm omen: [check the appropriate line}

LE, BidderlPropoeez is a certi?ed HEB o: 3133 mm. {It so, attach copy
or appropriate letter or. certification.)

Bidden'i?rcpoaer is Joint Venture and one or more Joint nature
partner: are certified HEB: or me. so. attach copies of
letteze 0E Certificetion, a copy of Joint?ire nt-clearly
describing the role of. the EEJHBE {into} and ite 1n the Joint
Venture and completed Joint Venture Af?davit - available from the

(?Rice cl! Contract Complicated

Eiddnr??rcposer is not .9. certified not or not rim. to: a Joint
Venture with HBEIHBB partners, but will. utilize EBB end 335 fem:
either directly or indirectly in the work 01' the Contract. {If 30:
complete Sections 11 and 

It. Dineot participation or Merits: rerun

will perform as include the
following: 

1. Name of! mm:
hill-Irene:
e-mil:

 

 

 

Contact Person: Phone: .
Belle: Amount Participation: 5
Percent imam: c1 Participetion:

 

*Lntcer o?_Intont attached? too He

2. Name o! memes:
Wrens:
e-riail:

 

 

 

Contact Person: Emma:
holler Mont Perticipaticn: 5
Permit mount of Participation:
*Letter of Intent attached? Yen Ho

 

 

Attach additional sheet: on needed.

I All note-:- 9! Intent. Ind utterl- 0: Certification net remitted with
mutt he out?tted to to "tune roe-IE la the Contact
Complime- nmetcltoe Iithin the? belie-n day: oft-c bid opening

or proposal due elite.

Hem-e: anion
res-1
3.;33



26

27

.. 
3 it: .i

11:. Indirect Participation of Firth

NOTE: This eectiOn need not he completed if the MBEIHBE goals have been met
through the Direct Participation. If the MBEIHBE goals have not been met
through Direct Participation, BidderlPropoeer shall demonstrate that the
proposed HBEIHBB [Erect participation represents the noximum achievable under
the circumstances. Only after such a demonstration will indirect participation
he considered. .

will perform as include the
following:

i. Name of HBEIHBE:
Address:

 

 

e-uail:

 

Contact Person: Phone:
Dollar Amount of indirect Participation 3
Percent Amount of indirect Participation:

_*Letter of Intent attached? Yes No

2. Name of 

 

Address:

 

e?mail:
Contact Person: Phone:

Dollar Amount of indirect Participation 
Percent Amount of indirect Participation:

*Letter of Intent attached? Yes No I

Attach additional sheets as needed.

All utters at Intent and Litters of Certification not lulmit?h?d ??ith
bidfpropoeal not he submitted no as to assure rooli?rhr C??tl-?lut
Couplianoe MEI-trot? within three heinous day- hid $150131??
or proposal due date.

Revised! 

3.135

our .-

BOOK comm: LETTER OF mt!
{Section 2] -

FROM HBEIHBB TO PERFORM ?5 SUEELIER AHDIOR CONSULTANT

Contract Title 3. Number: I

From:
Fine]

Tb:
{Bidderhropoeer Firm]

The undersigned is prepared to provide the following services. supplies and
project in connection with the aboVe named contract:

Each service performed and for item supplied will be detailed under Description

of ServicefSupply and Project with all services/items totaled under FeelCoet to
equal the full dollar amount of the Letter of Intent. ALI services Pit-90M
or supplies provided mat be directly related to this speci?c Dock concur

and/
cmtraot and must not include our services/anyplace related to an]? other
government: contract. .

Description of ServiceISogElyProject - PeefCoet

and the County of Cook

 

 

 

 

 

Total: 5 

 

TIE WEBSIGNED PARTIES me that this Letter of Intent will become a binding
Subcontract account conditioned upon the Biddorfrroponcr'c receipt of a sign?
contract from the County ct Deck. The Under-inner! Part-lee do alto certify that
they did not attic: their cicnlturea- to this document until all areas under
. Description or Servicefsupplr and Fee/Coat were oonplotcd. -

{print name}

 

Upon Penalty of perjury, I
the

of the.
the foregoing information is true and correct and the services, supplies. endr'or

 

{title} and 111.115,.r authorized representative
(enema firm} affirm that

project indicated above H111 be euppliesfperformed for the above indicated tote}.
dollar emount 3 which represents the above indicated total

percentage 3 for the contract amount 5

 

 

 

 

I
{Signature of arfiant} {Date}
Subscribed and sworn to before me this. day of 200?-
(?otary's Signature] Watery- seal}

noticed: Sid/08

3.133



28

DRAFT

ODOR LETIER OF IHIEHT

Upon Penalty of perjury, [print name)

 

the (title: and duly authorized

 

representative of the {BidUEr Propose: firm}

 

affirm that the foregoing information is true and correct and the services.

supplies, endfor project indicated above will be suppliesfperformed for the

above indicated.tote1 dollar amount 5 which represents the

above indicated total percentage for the contract amount

 

 

5 I

{Signature of affiant} {Date}
.

Subscribed and sworn to before me this day of 

 

 

[Notary's Elgnatotej [Eatery Seal}

Revised: BIGIOB


3.133

 

DRAFT:

PETITION EUR me PARTICIPATIM

tater: 3
a. nearer ntgoesr 

roan use nature
attention (anaemia use anoint-nee nanrnornarxonl

of. Reduction for NEE Participation
of Reduction tor VIBE Participation

B. REASON FDR me m5!

Bidder/Propoaer shall check each item applicable to its reason for a waiver
request. Additionall tin documentation shall he submitted with this
- 

    
    
 
 

   

a? an to on cannot I
nqm. atnIQn .u meta on ..1 a ?tted aire-?Tal on 

ll} lack of sufficient qualified M335 and/or capable Of Wow-ding
the goods or services required by the contract [plea-o 01913113}

[21 the specifications and necessary requirements for performing the
?3 contract make it impossible or economically infeasible to divide the

centract to enable the contractor to utilize andlor WEEs in

accordance with the applicable participation {please explain} .

{31 price{a} quoted by potential HBEs end/or HBEs are above

competitive law-la and increase cost of doing business and would make
acceptance of such HEE andior HBE bid economically impracticable.
taking into consideration the percentage of total contract price
represented by such HEB and/or WEE hid [please eaplain}

hmosaible or

there are other relevant factors making it
[please


economically infeasible to utilize HEB audio: WEE firms
explain) .

Ravi-id: same
ED -
5 5 3.133

30

 3
all?)? l-n?a? 
C. GOOD FAITH EFFORTS ??53 PARTICIPATION

Bidder/Propose: shall check each item applicable to its reason for a waiver_
request. Addi?onslixl ?212ng damnation shall be luhnittld with this
It. If It: 11- mute on Danna 1"

?a - I a? an Inn Dill-um: u' a :3 II JrI-?tl a

{fine inns-.5 no .131: a . x0e J5 iron the - to o?
luhuission - to.

(11 Made timely written: solicitation to identified and HEEs for

utilization of goods andfor services; and provided H335 and ?335 with a.
timely opportunity to review and obtain relevant specifications; terms
and conditions of the proposal to enable mass and Haas to an
informed response to solicitation {please attach)

f2] Followed up initial solicitation of. H335 and WBEs to determine if
firms are interested in doing business {please attach}

i3] Advertised in a timely manner in one or more dain 
andfor trade publication for HEEs and H335 for supply of. glands and
services {please attach} -

Use the services and assistance of the Office of Contract.
Compliance Staff (please explain] 

(51 Engaged ??lls a H533 for indirect participation (please explain)



D. 

attach any other documentation relative to Good Faith Efforts in complying
with MBEJHBE: participation.

 

Ravi-ed: 3i4/os
EDS-6 
3.133

I ?Iv?n- rI-l -upl -

.

.uq.

I-m? - .- 



 

32

mun-1m


THE maximums ant mot masonic To sum not MID coax comm
0301mm. common :5 camionro to mo mass munmmus PRIOR 1'0
autumnal or mm mm. mm or tI-rr emu-m mu. omen-rm or
?ats: mo samu- mo 00351er 11 mm! 3! cm 1.1m 
sum-mm: arr mm ?rst multimimo an: mm: comer 5mm.
cm :5 mar Harman nut: mronr Hiram rims: 5m
?rm-r IN 'nlsuoniin'cn?a? mu for 2H: or 11:15 W.

co. :5 martian mrriru war 133 cum?! mites rim-m tar-mi

. Warm-on
cmirmanms wags may ?oor. mi: mm sum. as am 1'0 HWHTIW.

masons nun-Ira smart:- to nlmur?qnm. lie cation or human entity than
he awarded a contract or cube-contract, tor a period or two rear: Emu ?it! Of
conviction or entry or plt? or nonunion of guilt. civil or criminal if that 
ct bush-ass totity. .
in} an convicted or an act mittnd. ultnin the Stat! of 111111915: a!
bribery a: to bribe on oii'iccr or uploycu of a unit or state.
or local savour-cot or swooi district in tin state or lilincia
in that of?cer': or cowloyoe'r ci'i'icill capacity.

lb] hour convict?: by redial, state or local goo-armor. or or act
omitted, of hiduringing or attempting to rig bid: on defined in tin
Shannan Anti. ill-ct Ind Clayton Act. Act. 3.5 8.3.6. auction 1 it Mg.

burn convicted of iota-rigging or stunting to the
laws of star: or local govern-rent.

Edi Ear born. convicted or an act coonitnc. by recital, auto or local
coworncont of prior-?xing or attracting to Erica: or cancer! by tho
Shaman Anti-mm: MI: and the Clifton 15 auction 1 or
.Icq.

[oi Hu- boon ammo of pritI?iining or attcopting tc rix prion uncut rh_c
intro of {odor-cl. state or local covenant.

lit: bola convicted o: Grinning or attuptioo to defraud any state:
fodaral. local warm-mt or district: in the State or Illinois;

man on omission or guilt of such conduct as set forth in
swoon-ions In: through It]: about which omission is part-r of. record:
whether or not such Parson or huninono mtity urn auhjoot 1.1: pxmcutian
lo: the offence- or oii?cnnr a?oittod to;

ihl it preachtiy rusprodldi rumpus-rd for damn-rot declared
ineligible or voluntainy ?aimed no: any trmsacticos'ty any rental.

state or 10:31 will: all 5mm?

ti] Hon. within. a titre-year poriod preceding the ?ats of this 3B3. boon
curd-chad or a criminal oilonoo. adjudqad guilty. or hurt a civil juda?nt

rendered against that: in with: obtaining. ?taunting to
obtiio: or winning a public (retinal. or local} transaction or
contract :mdu- a public transaction: a violation of federal or state
antitrust otatutor; franc; warrior-ant; than: {org-r9: bribery.-
triairication or distraction of records; uniting iclo- or
receiving stolen property.-

(jl In pruontiy indicted for o: o?wrvisa crininoll cc- civilly dicta?
by a quancll. rarity (general. cute or loco 1 with. carcinoma: of any

of the ottoman

[k1 Err, within a two-foo: period Ptl??i?n?' oi this BBS, bad 0:13 01?
core mblic transactions i?iierai, state at: local: tnntimnd for cluao

or donut:

Ill Jinn. within a ?ve-year period tho date or this EDG- balm
convicted. adjudged guilty. or (?and liable in I. civil practicing. or in
my criminal or civil action, including notions cumming mwircmanul
violations, by the County or by- tho federal gran-armor, any
start. or any othnr unit gown-rout.


3-133

 n.

.- Illa?q?I?I?e-u-u?uq 5-H

3.2



'llnnez - Relationship:
Hm: Relationship-
Hm IllII'bIDn-lhlp:

33

DRAFT 

[In Ens entered-I plan of mic contenders to charge of bribery: ?166'
?31.29.- hid-riqging. c: trend, as act: forth lunch-paragraphs is: through

in mm ens-nun m:

tE'e?ent'i?t cm ui?e Em: Elite certification in emitted he:
not been new cted, or entered a plea or win ccntenderc. or uric
an echiseinn or guilt to any set duscrihed in Chapter 10, Section
ID-TJ- through In} 61th. ordinances and Resolutilms till

Comty at 0001:;

the mes, partner of shareholder uhc directly or
indirect?.- t-rent percent {23? Or rare or the business entity
has not been can cred or Int-rad?. a plea o! nolc cmten?ere or
nude In thissicn oi' iit tn my act described in Chapter 10.

Section 10-11. {all 1: 

it than not euplcy as an officer. any individull. the use an
ei'i'icer ct mther business entity at the rite latter hnsineas
entity omitted 1 dismal? Int described in chapter 15..
Section 1.0?1.1. through 3

it does not have an mt who cuntrcis. direct". er-
twenty percent or acre c: the hue nee: #19 

In owner who. dimly or indirectly, controlled twenty percent . -
or turn at business entity at the tine the letter

remitted disqualitying act .discribud in mantel: 113. 3mm:

wrong}: 

31m 13 mama.
I: seen: 85-1295 attended by Public 8645'.?
Station 335-11 [Illinois Cnrpilld statutes; miles 5133 5-111.
neither the contacting Entry no: any Entity is listed?: on :11!
tailoring lists maintained by the attic: ct Weigh Assets Control. 91 tn: I113.
Day-mt at the treasury or the Bureau or Industry and Security a: the v.3.
Departmt ct tun-rec or their successors: the Specialty Dulcmted Heticnals
Lienthe Denild Pusan: List. ?nnrified List. the Entity List and the

Lint. .

    
     

   

L?rf n. I If 
rnilticnlhi with my County
hen mention Farris the Chutneting Party I 'hnlineu
elected c?iciai in the 12 anal-Jr: lecture the data

Iigned?
I a/m:

 

. plan: idnntity 330ch the attain) at such county elected attic-iris and

describe such relutiunrhiptsl 

 

 

 

 

 

 

murmur; cut-15%; my in is an: barred its: award
a entrant as a tr 0 a conviction in: the violation 0:

State In: prohibiting hid-rigging or bid rotating.



In with Pub?c Mt Iii-14:59 [Illinois (implied Statutll. 
saws-111 - 

- .. - .- .- it will pscvide 1 drug 1m
workplace I: per the requirement: at Public Act 55-1459.

 

rue-?3
3.138

 if?

 

nook county Ordinance umptar 1o section 1.0-5.1 provides that no person or
business entity shall be awarded a contract or subcontract for goods or services
with the County of took that is delinquent in?the payment of any tax [including
real estate tax] or fee administered by the County of Cook.

was 1-, it is not delinquent in the percent

 

of any tax or fee administered by the County of cool: {including real
estate taxi unless such tax is being contacted in accordance with the
procedures established by county Ordinance.

 

Ho person who is a party to a contract with (Josh Comb? {'Uounty"! shall MFEE
in mlau-Eul discrimination or send harassment against any individual in the
terms or conditions of saploynent. credit. public accosmodatione. housing: 
provision of: County ?ecilities. servioea or progress.

Image; 1: is in cementum with these

P?iciee and it is in esteem: to abide by such policies as a part or its
contractual obligations.

WM . 
In accordance with Malia net sl-lals tenuous by Ina. 31-12571 [lumen

entailed Statute. we late sit-1051.

it is in compliance with the hot

 

53d 5-3 in to abide by the requireamte- of the act as part of its
contractual obligations.

 

Cook County moaride Ordinance provides that if the primary contractor currentll"
amounts business operations in northern Ireland. or will conduct business during
the projected duration or a acuity contract, it is hereby required that the
contractor shall make all resemble and good faith e?orta to cmduct my ?031
business operations in Northern Ireland in accordance with the Hat-Bride
Principles for hertnem Ireland as defined in Illinois Public net 55-1350.

n: . it is in full coupliante with the
provisions of this Ordinance and is in agreerent to abide by the
requirements or the nicotine Principles for Northern Ireland as part of its
contractual obligations.

 

EDS-9 3 133

34

 -l?m?ll . - o-u-u?n-n-nut-

 

Tho anchoring agar: in. an patron-no or all mil-Ii. ?Moon and
combination by coupoI?uu mild bidding acorn: tho 1mm: bid pric- or 
evaluated bid price Iron a; nopomiw In With local bum: I. provided thit-
the bio does no: mood on. lmot hid print or 1m? ammo hid prim ?rm I
mam-iv: and responsible non-loco]. Minoan by flare than two percent: [at] .

?I-ocal Buniono' room a poi-loo outbound =0 trunct unions: in. this
state- no huh-lg a. boon rid: "tumult-om: Eon: Emilia hush?: loo-load
vithin Cool: My It Illicit it: was actually transacting business on ob- ditl Ill!?-
try competitive Ioliclmioo [or a public amino: 1: ?rst ldmulld or
?nouns-d and former Idaloh ?ploy- tho majority of. in regular. dull. title writ

tom within Goof My. including 1 2013.191: emporium duly mthorlzod to
tmonot. halo-n in this ?htl and which hm a bun tida establish-on: Eor
trio-looting humu- loo-Led within cook Cunt]! at Ihio?h it: no ?own?
?mating balloon on tho duo Hum my midi-Flo solicitation for. I 111-13111:
contract is ?rst download or submit and {orthon- which mil-O?! the
majority of its regular. toll. tin Hark zorou within Cook Comty.

Is biotin-European:- a. moon Businano' dotinad ahoro?
. H31

How tony perm are only enploeynd. on a full-tin: basis by
warrior-water? .

Did the hidden-Impaler harv- hon. tide ?Wuhan-n: It. tom-atlas
MIMI within ?unk County on th- thin bid was mniu??

E?l: DIG:

 

If m. Jim: ouch business odds-ulna}

_2.0 Norih Su?: 2300
okra-go .IL 410502

non: haw looaozlom at min-J: it. lamina-o outlido
aha My Cook? scan Ho:

yes. 11:: such Marmara-?r hollnoll mimics:

 

 

{Attach Additional ail-mu if moon-arr}

Hill! Inn]: of mono: loll-tin: ?ploy?: wot]: It
within oh- Domty u: nookL. 

him has notional howl-d9: a:

the information 11mm above uni chat: the dolomoion 

 

Tho nook marl-luring Kwanzaa-noon nut-dons um: lmlengoof: $5 .13 Film
be paid to individual: upland under cannot-.3 boon-m nook. county and any
our-on or annuity lwoxdzo a. can-tract by cook Camry or the Macro: o: my

mach moon or unity.

3. 133

35

. DRAFT

?Contract? means any written agreement whereby the is coin-titted to or does
?Pond Ends in connection with the agreement or subcontract thereof. The term
loontract? as used in this ordinance specifically excludes contracts ?lth 

following 

Hot-For Profit Organizations (de?ned as a corporation having
tax exempt status under Section snitc}I31 or the united State
Internal Remote Code and recognized 11er the Illinois State
not-for?profit law}:

2 1 Community Dwelopmnt Black Grants;

3 I President's Office of 3:111th Training:

Sheriff's Honk alternative Program: and

5 Department of Correction inmates.

i - it is in compliance with this
Drdinan and green to abide by the requirements of this Ordinance as part.
or its otmtractual obligations. .

 

 
    

Effectivn Jul 1, 1993. every Applicant for a (Bounty Privilege shall be in full
compliance with any Child support Order before such Applicant is entitled 60
receive or renew a County Privilege. When Delinquent Child Support exists. the
shall not issue or renew any County Privilege. and may revoke any Count?
PriVilege.

      

'Applicant' cleans any person or business entity. including all Substantial
Ola-sore, seeking issuance of. a Domty Privilege or renewal of. an urinating MW
Privilege thorn the County. This term shall not. include any political subdivision
of the federal or state government. including units of! local government. and not'

for-profit organizations. . 

?county Privilege" means any business license. including but not limited to
liquor dealers' licenses. packaged goods licensee. tavern licenses. rolta??nt
licenses. and gun licenses; real property license or lease: permit. including
hot not limited to building permits. zoning pernits or apprm'aln: envirmnantal
certificate; County HOME Loan. and contracts exceeding the value of $25.?00.00.

I'Suhntantial Owner- moans any person or persons who own' or hold a tuenteri-VB\
percent or core percentage of interest: in any business entity Hakim] II
county Privilege. including those shareholders. general or limited partners.
beneficiaries and Principals: accept share a business IItity is an indiVidual or
sole proprietorship. Substantial Owner means that individual or sale Halide?:-

In this regard. please provide the name and social security number of each Substantial
Owner or the business entity. the name or which appears on the execution page.

It the Contracting Party is unable to certify to any of. the above statements in this
part. Vendor Certifications. ?u contracting Party must ?tplain below:

 

If the letters. the word ?Hone' or no response appears shove. it will conclusively
Presumed that the Contracting Party certified to the above statements.

'sus?iz .
3.138

36

 

37

Geek County .
'Af?dnv? of Child Support Obligalip

wwummu?u?si??wm inhuman 
arm-Mm 

 

vii-Irania? quanta-gum; ummu?um

Ida-i .



 

. ?mumwumwm-?mmumm ?mm-guilt-
n-u 


mm??md? un?t? ID. 000

2 .
Lillimh'lhd?'kl i autumn: 2} go I .
mum: (900! $9 c?gleg .
an: 3rd '3 It. (90:52.2

Wm.

Hagan-mm (puma-mama's:

.
ilk Thir?hluln?ch?rwmm?mm


gab-midlands



.- .L 9 - 

h; as 01

  

 

 

ll ill-"mm DH

38

DRAFT

Hale: AA hm E2gi?ggd 
Bustinaamm?ml? 93*:3 ??n?fs
$u?btonxmd'0/ ward 6?45".

l' . - H- 

 

 

 

Relationship to 

   

 

Fees: See. W.- T?b 

ans-13 3 13a,

- DRAFT

 

The Contracting Party understands and agrees that:

A.

By coupleting and filing this. the Contracting Party acknowledges and
39113-28. on behalf of itself and the persons or entities named in this
EDS. that the County may investigate the creditworthiness of some or
all of the persons or entities named in this EDS.

The certifications, disclosures. and acknowledgments contained in this
EDS will become part of any contract or other agreanent between the
Applicant and the County in connection with the Matter. whether
procurement. County assistance. or other County action. and are
material inducements to the County's execution of any contractor taking
other action with respect to the Matter. The contracting PET-TY
understands that it must comply with all statutes. ordinances. and
regulations on uhich this EDS is based.

The County's Goverruuental Ethics and Carrpaign Financing Ordinances.
impose certain duties and obligations on persons or entities seeking
County contracts. work. business. or transactions. For further
information please contact the Director of Ethics at 
[69 H. Heehington St. Suite 3040. Chit-age. IL 60602} or visit our
web-site at and go to the Ethics Department link.
The Contracting Party must couply fully with the applicable ordinances.

If the County determines that any information provided in this EDS is
false. incomplete or inaccurate. any contract or other agresmB-nt 111
connection 1with which it is submitted my be rescinded or be VOid 
voidahle. and the County may pursue any remedies under the Wtra?r?
or agreement {if not rescinded. void or voidahle}. at law. or in
equity. including terminating the Contracting Party's participation in
the Matter sndior declining to allow the Contracting Party to
participate in other transactions with the County. Remedies ?at law
for a false statement of material fact may include incarceration and
an award to the Comty of treble damages.

It is the County's policy to take this-document available to the PUblic
on its Internet site and/or upon request. Some or all of the
information provided on this EDS and any attachments to this EDS may
be made available to the public on the Internet. in response to a
Freedom of Information not request. or otherwise. By Emmet-ins ?d
signing this EDS, the contracting Part}? waives and releases any
possible rights or claims which it may have against the_ ?3th 1?
connection With the Public- release of information contained in this EDS
and also authorises the County to verify the accuracy of any
information submitted in this EDS.

The information provided in this EDS must he kept current. In the
event of changes.the Contracting Party must supplement this EDS up to
the time the county takes action on the Hatter. If the Matter is a
contract being handled by the Office of the Purchasing 393115- the
contracting Party must update this see as the contract requires.

The Contracting Party represents and warrants that:

GI

The Contracting Party has not withhold or reserved any disclosures as
to economic interests in the Contracting Party. or as to the Hatter. or
any information. data or plan as to the intended use or for
which the Applicant seeks County Board or other County agency action.

EDS-14
3. 133

39

 

I Una-In nun-qua - -

I nilDRAFT



Under malty 9f perjury. the paraon signing below wen-rut: that hehhu is
author and to execute this ?03 an banal: at ?u Contracting Pitt? and "am?
that 1111 certification: and statements in this ms are true.
accurate and mitt: IE of. the dhta ?ux-nicked to the ?aunty. 

. Jun?'?
I .an 
Print or type nan-e. of Contracting Party 

when. 1? Coma
Erik; Lgbad'as

Print or type nan alps-mu liming
zeal 
Print or type title of perm-n. signing

3-123} 

at!


Signed and sworn to before In: this day mm. 2003

 

Rota in Signatu-
cnuisaiun 33:91:35:

 

30"? . 3.13s

DELBFT

DH rec
talcum s)

The ?deriighed acknowledges receipt of a full net of Contract Boa-mute cor Contract
m: and. Addenda Emmet-{a} {Nona mulch indicated
litre} . The nude-reigned maker: the foregoing Bid. Proposal cc all of the terms and
cmditicna cf the Emu-act Documeme. The wideceimed certifies that an of the
5018901115 statements a: the Ocntrectcr Certifications are true and correct. The
Warnigned warrants that: an a! 1:11! facts and incarnation submitted by the undersigned
in with this Bid Proposal are true and correct. Upon award and execution of
the contract. the undersigned agrees that execution at this Bid meal ?and 
the undersigned'e executian of the 

 

 

enemas mm:

 

BUSINESS ADDRESS 

 

 

TELEPHONE: remiss!?

PM man:

 



emu- Haunts: 

 

 

 

ND ?331' mature me 18 MT ?mean:
Ian-ace emu.- If mean! DIET mun 

 

comm: memes MIR:

 

arm: 3

Date. I

 

Subscribed and Sworn to

before me this clay

 

 

 

of . zou__-
Hy ecu-minim expires:
1-:
Notary Public ligature Notary Seal
I?ll coo: com-n 0m 

you are muting mac: Ill. cumin-Id m, pee-rid.- Bunk Comb? Mutation

mm: hereunder as pawl.? by 113ml: Ila-piled Biz-cut", ans Ham 411511.
05-16
3.138

42
DE. 11?: FT


lemma 5)

The undersigned solmoeledgss receipt or full set of Cmtreet Dawn-ones for Contract
Wilbur and Addenda Hmohe?sl' menu unless indicated
here). The undersigned makes the foregoing Bid Proposal subject to all u: the terms and
conditions of the Contrast Domnts. The undersigned certifies that all or the
foregoing statements of the contractor Certi?cations are true and correct. The
Wemigned warrants that. all a: the tests and intomtim whittled by the underaisned
in cameotion with this lid Proposal are true and correct. 'Gpon med and execution 0f
the Contract. the undersigned agrees that execution of this Bid Proposal shall steed as
the undersigied'e execution at the contract.

 

BUSINESS FMHB:

 

BUSINESS ADERESS:

 

 

BUSINESS sensuous: 

so: RUHBER:

 

0P Elli ESTHER OHEID In CGBHIT:

Pli?l?llr INDII IUHEIRIEJ:

 

 

 

If EDT IOU 153T 15 HOT AFFLICEELI
Elli? If NECESSARY TO LIST IDDITIDHIL IIDII HUHBBEEJ.

 

COUNTY IUBIHBEE RIGISTRBEIOH 

 

EIGHITEII: I

Date 

 

Subscribed and Sworn to

before no this day

 

 

 

of . 200 .
My commission expires:

Hutu-5r Public signature Notary seal
?l??l?ln PER EDGE count! In, SICIIGH 10-6.1.

I: you. are operating under an named one, provide the cook county mieteetion

Masher hereunder provided. by Illinoil Owned ?tetutee. W5 
3 133

43


:12:
$1

r. 

mm

{mm 61

The mderoigned acknowledges receipt of a full net a: Contract Documents for cmtraot
Number and Addenda Mario) {Rune unless indicated
112m??- Th! undersigned makes the foregoing Bid Proposal subject to all of the terms and
conditions of the Contract Documents. The undersigned certifies that an at tile
Eoregoing itntaunnta of the ContreCtor certifications are true and correct. Thu
undersigned warrants that all of the facts and information submitted by the undereigna?
in oomeotion with this Bid Proposal are true and correct. Upon award and extant-inn Of
the the undersigned name that execution of this Bid mponal shall stand as

the Imduroignod'e execution of the contract.

 

 

EUSINBES NAME 

305113355 HDDRESE:

 

 

BUSINESS FEIHIESN:

FM: man:

 



rm mos: mental 

 

 

 

MT APPLICABLE: 20!! FEET mom: ml! 11' 15 aromas
(amt: '10 mm mm] .

 

"coo: oomm: mama menu-Ian m:

 

HOLE rmm-a 81mm: 

men 

 

Suhaoribad and Sworn to
before In: this day

o! 
. My commission expires:

 

Notary Public Signature Notary Seal
mm ?a duo: 00mm: 01mm 10, Blot-Ion 

you are operating under an ?med nun, provide the cool: County magi-tntion
Hub-e homemade: plovidad ?br Illinoil ammo lit-tutu. 305 nos 105(1-


3. L38

DRAFT

 

The undersigned acknowledges receipt or a full eet of contract Documents for Contract
Number and Addenda mother-{r} [Home unless indicated here}. The
Wursigned makes the foregoing Elid Proposal subject to all of the terms and eonditione
of the Contract Dom-memo. The undersigned certifies that all of the foregoing
statements of the Contractor Unztifioetime are true end correct. The undersigned
warrants that all of the anto end internation submitted by the undersigned in
eormectioo with this Bid Proposal are true and correct. lapel: award and execution of 1:115
contract. the undersigned agrees that execution of. this Proposal shall Etln? ?19

undersigned'a mention of the Con-strict.

 

 

BUSINESS RAMS:

 

EUBIHEES ADDRESS:

 

 

BUSINESS TELEPHONE: 

 

com-nor ransom m: more:

con-m: are! or Inn term mm :11 too: com:
Pm mun mental 

1

 

 

 

Ii" arrumu. rut! WET mean MT 11' IE ?rum. our: 11'
WEI-RY '20 mm. .

"can: ED511355 mun:

 

arm 01' rum amount: to menu mere Elf emu: 

 

HI I Batu:

Subscribed and Sworn to
befdre rue this day -
of . 200 - .



 

Hy Contention emireo 


 

Hater! Public Signdtuzi Hater? Seal
PIE COOK mm mm m0? l?n?ulu

1" I: we ere operating- rude:- en loomed none, prodd- the Gaol: count?
Mutation Huber hereunder I: provided by Illinoi- mild Statutes:
3135 nee 10513.. 

i" Attach hereto a. perm-ribs]: resolution or other doe-Mt authorieing
mention at this Bid Prone-ll on bah-1i of the newer-hips

ans-ISL 3 133

 

45

 

(armor 

The undersigned acknowledge: receipt of [1.111 eat of Contract Documents for Contract
Hunter and Addenda Merle) (Hone unless _iodiceted here}. The
undersigned token the foregoing Bid Propane]. subject to all of the tom and conditions
of the Contract Documents. The undersigned eerti?ee that on or the foregoing
statements of the Contractor Certifieatim are true and correct. The und?f?ign?
warrants that an or the facts and information submitted h'y the undersigned in
connection with this Bid Erupoeel are true and correct- Upon were and execution of the A
Contreot. the undersigned agrees that execution of this Eropooel the?. stand an the 

undersigned-o execution of the Contract. 

 

 

BUSINESS mus 

BUSINESS 

 

 

 

momma manor.- mutton;

 

comer PERSON: FAX HUI-lam: I




 

 

 

nor ?rum. roar nor more?: mat to rs nor normalize. 1r
Horton: to 1.1m- momomr. inner undergo.

"5053 door-rt ?Ema mam-tron MIR:

 

arm: 

 

he an 1 hate:

Suborrihed.and Sworn to
before me this do)!
of . 2no__.
Hy commission expires:

 

Eatery Public ?igneture Notary Bea].
FIR one: could?! mm 1o. Elmo}! 1D-E.1.

It you ere opereting under no. none. provide the Goal: County
Regietretion Huber hereunder provided In! Illinoie Milli Sheraton

805 

attach hereto pertnerehip resolution or other doomt euthoririog
execution or tel.- lid Propoeel on betel! o! the Pertnerehip.


3. 133

46

 

The undersigned achw?edgu receipt at A full set a: Contract Documents for Contract
lumber and Addenda Merle) . -[Hune unless indicated hers}. The
undersigned rates the foregoing Bid Propoaal cuhjent to all of the terms and conditions
of the Dccumnte. The undersigned certifies that all of the foregoing
statemntc of the Contractor Certifications are true and correct. The 
warrants that. an or the facta and intonation submitted by the undersigned in
connection with this Bid rxcpoaal are true and currect. Upon award and execution of the
the undersigned agrees that emecutimn of this Prquaal shall stand as the

madernigned'a execution of the Cmtract.

 

 

BUSINESS m:

BUSINESS ADDRESS 

 

 

333111355 W: - PENISSH:

 

 

mac:- FM MEMBER:

manna Irma: 
mun 

 

 

 

:r 1101* ?parents, ms: mm?: mm 11' Is no: mum. If
Heczsann! to 5:8! tune: Huuhlaa. 

 

com: SEEMS manna: m:



 

31': Date:

Sumnerihed and Sworn to
before me this day
cf . 

 

Hy conciliation mirth:

 


Notary Public Signature Notary Seal

1mm PER EDD: COUNTY 0211mm: 1'0: Emu: Iii-5.1.

1" It you are operating- under an elected provide the Gaunty
mietreticm Huber hereunder I: provided by Illinois coupiled Butch-5:

3G5 

Attach hut-to I r-rhiar-hip ?lolution a: other: mt authorizing
execution at thi- Prepare}. an huh-1: a! the 


. 3. 38

47



{auction 8}
The undersigned acknowledges receipt of a full 521'. of Contact ligaments for Contract
Mar and. Addenda marital {lions unless imitated
here}. The m?anignud makes this foregoing Bid Proposal mbjatt to ?11 of tha term and
cmditiona of the Contract Dominating. The'underuigned warrants that. an at the tact:
and infamticm submitted by 11115 mderligned it: mention with this Bid Proposal are
true and current. Upon award and Execution of the Contract, 1313 undersigned agrcti Hill'-
mcutim of thin shall stand an tha underaignad'a execution at the Contract.

 

BUSINESS mm:

 

HUSIHESS mass 

 

BUSINESS mam, 'an man:

 

MET mam:

 

um: ?11: mm: FILE mm:




 

 

 

 

1" ?mutant-l. i'?LIST mum .

 

VICE PREEIDENT:

 

ems-mar: mm:

 

 

"*3sz or Panama-r: 
1mm autumn

 

 

 

 

mm 
Subscribnd and 51mm bobtfore me thin day
of . 200?. My mission expires:

But-xy- Public siwtun. Notary- 5:511

1! th. corporation 1- not ?giltlrud in. th- at 1111:1513. I copy at Fl?:
alrtititltl at [and standby tram th- ink in which run um is to hi
white-r! with your Bid mil.

Rewind. par: GOD: 0mm 1H. SECTION 

In th- that this Bid Front": in manual by Innuen- other than th-

m-idml: and Bantu-y, Ittuh hunt: a music?! copy a! ?will?!? W"1m ?7 -
nth": authorintion by tho corporation which authadns such. nut-ant to maul-.- this

Bid Hamill on huh-1f of the corporation.
EDS-22 
3 . 13 

 





48





{Elohim 

?'13 ?1'13"in ll Bds? nm 1: of a lull sat a! mutual: mm Inc: Contact
my ?Star 3% :de muons {Minna
lure}. The mam-ligand rule- hunter-gains; 31:! ml ?bimbo I11 at uh: tuna and
mum: at the Mutant Damn?. mderlignaa that: all a! th? flat!
"15 informant: sub-ital}! by the under-19nd in connection with thin aid magma: are

true and corrupt. Upon ward and mm a: ?atmtruct. thaw-dammed that

mien: ohthin mp9 shall stand ID tha managers mention of.? murmu-
all-h-

marinas 1mm: no! JAGC. .

 

.mlms mam Claw:- .65.:443 moo

 

BUSINESS mmg?iz} mm mm: (3Q) - 2.9 '77
(if? Gob-62.

2373469 

mmuuornn 

Mane-

Irmmum. mm mm in: 11' IE mam": 


.
marm?k?d Cowa? we: Emmaw 

um.-

  
 
 

0! mm:

 

 

 

AMI MM.

Stimuli-ad and. Evan: to heron: thin an? .

of . moi. ?y minim unlit-a:
new: mm: ?wlmn 1mm Era-1

1- :1 th mnmiluh rI?Il-??dl-II met-up: min-nu. 
nix-bums:- a: moi alluding fru- new. in man you. In Inaugural-d. 
tun-1nd with Jun- 31d nape-:1

1th sworn-L1.

Inch- mar. mt all]: lid-Wu]. la mudhy moth-HIM th-
rruihnt. Ind scar-buy. ?each human .- magi-a so" a: the entrant. hydra-I or
nth: luth??llilun h: tin camper-?an my): gating-in: Inch gum tn uncut. Ni

and Will um mm: at th- mam-
EDS-23
3.13?

49

DRAFT



[Section 

The undersigned athlowlodgoo rootipt of a full not or Contract moments for contract
Humor and 'H?umberiol {Hone unless indicated
born}. The mdoroignad oakao the {ongoing Bid Proposal subject to all or the terms and
omditlmn of the Contract Documents. The Imdornigned warrants that all of the facts
and information submitted by tho uodoroignod in motion with this Bid Propoaal are
true and correct. Upon award and execution at the contract. the undersigned agrees that
execution of this Proposal shall stand as tho uncluraignod'o execution oE the cmtratt.

 

 

BIISIHBSS NAME:

 

ADDRESS:

 

303111253 TELEPHONE: FAX NUMBER:

 

mac: PERSON:
+11- m:

 



 

cont-m mar or om.


 

 

 

1" HOT ?Flam. not INDICATE THAT IT IS 501' Am am If
man! to ADDITIML IEDH mm) .



VIE PRESIDM:

 

 

3W: mum:

 

or 3mm: 
[optima-r: Emmi

 

 

 

mar: 

Subscribed and Baron: to boioro me this do?

of 200?. ?y omission expires:

at -
litany rublio signature Notary Soul

i th- corporation: is not raga-tarot: in tho State at Illinois. I. 0: 
outifiuto a! good landing {rm tho stat- in which you or: incorporated. ill to he
- mat-d with your 31d Proposal.
3mm pa: cool: com-pr mm 11:. 1o?s.1?.
?1 In tho nut that this Bid Proposal 1- 01?th hum athlet- thin th!
Prlnidunh and Scorch-rm attach hereto I outl?od our? of th- oorporat- lay-1m 13:?
nth-r by the coronation which outbox-1:? not porlonl to oar-onto thi-

ald Proponl on halal! at tho oorporntim.
EDS-24 3 133

ERAFT

Wm

1m 3!

The undersigned an behalf of the county of Cash, :1 body politic and cox-pout? of the
State at Illinuin. hmby accept the foregoing Bid Brogan]. as idantified in the_
Contract Dummants for nontraut Number .

 

SECTIOHIBI. 

 

 

mm. mam-r OF 
[mm cm)

FUND MEET-ISLE:

 

 

1T (331035110, ILLINDIS THIS DAY

OF ?29? .

 

PRESIDM. com HIRED OF EDI-DESSIGERB

 

COOK comm PURCHASING MEET

 



APPROVED 35113 FORM:

 

ATIURNET

EDS-25 .
3. 133

50

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
April 24, 2009

ATTACHMENT #4

April 24, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda Item #9

Contract Synopsis

Vendor: Integrated Clinical Solutions

At the Board?s direction, a process of information gathering and intendews have
been conducted with a number of consulting ?rms in order to seek out appropriate and
vital assistance with the Board?s Strategic Planning efforts. The ?rms that had
participated were Booz and Company, Boston Consulting Group, and Integrated Clinical

Solutions.

Following this process which included the co?chairs of the Board?s Ad Hoc Strategic
Planning Work Group (Directors Greenspan and Golden), Mr- Foley and other System
Executives, it was the consensus of the group that Integrated Clinical Solutions (ICS)
would best ?t the needs of the 

A contract has been drafted and negotiated with the following terms:

The contract will commence upon approval of the Board and will be for a period of six
(6) months.

103 will provide some very speci?c services including

Kick?off and Board Retreat

Assessment of internal and external environments (identifying critical issues and
options) which will include 0 Town Hall meetings

Development with Leadership of a vision, core goals, and overall strategic
direction

Development of a 3?year forecast as part of a ?nancing plan

And ?nally translation of the preferred strategic direction into a step-wise action

plan.

WV VV

Cost and terms of the contract have been negotiated to be

*Completion of Strategic Plan (excluding Phase IV, Financial Plan) will
not exceed $320,000.

*Completion of Phase IV, Financial Plan will not exceed $123,000.
*Direct expenses, including travel, databases, and similar expenses will be
billed in addition to the professional fees and will not exceed 10% of the
total professional fees, or $43,300 for this engagement.

*Total cost of the contract will not exceed $486,300.

Contractor will bill both professional fees and direct fees on a basis, submitting
detailed invoices that include actual profession hours expended (and by which members
of the Contactor?s team), copies of all receipts for direct expenses, etc-

The contract complies with all necessary Cook County requirements, has been reviewed
and approved by the States Attorney?s Of?ce, and reviewed by the County Purchasing

Agent?s Of?ce and County Contract Compliance.

Funds for this contract are included in the FY 2009 Budget within budget unit 390.

 

APPROVED

243?? sx?T
av some or: 
DIRECTORS OF THE coox COUNTY LRT 1
HEALTH mo HOSPITALS 

 

 

CONTRACT FOR SERVICE BETWEEN

THE COUNTY OF COOKICOOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
SYSTEM AND

Integrated Clinical Solutions, Inc.

This Contract is made and entered into by and between the County of Cook, Illinois. a
body politic and'corporate, (?County") through its Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(?System?), and Integrated Clinical Solutions, Inc. (?Contractor?), with its principal place if
business at 10 South Riverside Plaza Chicago, Il 60606.

WHEREAS, the System makes health care services available to persons who reside in
Cook County, Illinois, regardless of their ability to pay, including the provision of health care to
the indigent in a pro?cient and compassionate manner, and performs this function through the
System which, through its health care delivery system, provides ambulatory and hospital health

services; and,

WHEREAS, the System requires the following services: The Cook County Health and
Hospitals System Board of Directors is engaged in development of a multryear
strategic planning effort and is in need of highly skilled external resources to assist in the

development of this Strategic and

WHEREAS, the Contractor is willing and able to supply the Services on the terms and
conditions provided and in consideration for the fees set forth herein; and; 

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual undertakings herein
set forth, the parties agree as follows:

I. SCOPE OF WORK
The Contractor agrees to perform the Services that are described in Exhibit A, Scope of Work.
11- 

This Contract shall commence on April 2009 and shall continue until October 2009. This
Contract may be extended upon the mutual agreement of Contractor and the Cook County Health 
and Hospitals System Board (?System Board?):

COMPENSATION AND PAYNIENT 
Compensation and Payment shall be made as set forth in Exhibit B, Pament Terms.

 

Iv. GENERAL commons

This Contract incorporates and is subject to the provisions attached hereto as Part Il, Sole
Source.

V. EXHIBITS
The Contract incorporates the following Exhibits attached hereto:

Exhibit A, Scone of Work; and
Exhibit B, Payment Terms.

 

VI. ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

In the event that there is a conflict between or among on}r of the terms and conditions of any of
the documents described below, (which-are collectively referred to herein as the ?Conn-ecf?g, the
order of precedence to be used in interpreting the documents, [torn highest to lowest 1n priority

and precedence, shall be as follows:

 

- (I) Part Contact;
(2) Part II, General Conditions;
(3) Exhibit A, Statement of Work? and

(4) Exhibit B, Fitment Tel-mg.
END OF PART I

 

DRAFT

EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF WORK

 

I. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY:

The Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors is engaged in
development of a multiyear strategic planning effort and is in need of highly Skilled external
resources to assist in the? development of this Strategic Plan. As part of this e??ort the creation of
a more economically salt-sustaining clinical and business model is vital. has
determined that Integrated Clinical Solutions a national firm focused exclusively on
assisting hospitals and healthcare systems, academic medical centers, physician grows, and
other healthcare provider organizations in the development of strategic plans, clinical service line
plans, and businessfaction plans for both on-campus and elf?site project development, is the best

resource for the System's needs.
II. SERVICES:

APPROACH
Our overall approach consists of ?ve major process phases:

PHASE I PHASE 1  PHASE Ill PHASE Iv PHASE 
lack-OHS: Di cov Strategic ?nancial Action
. Ron-eat . i" Direction Plan Plan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The speci?c tasks for each phase of the engagement are described below:

Phase l?En a corset ?nk-Off and Board Retreat

 

It will be critically important to have broad-based input and ?buy?in? from key stakeholders. ?as
well as from Cook County Health and Hospitals System leadership. The process in Phase is
designed to organize and engage the constituencies who will be key to the plan's success. -

Toward this end, we will:

- Work with System leadership to de?ne and structure:
An executive leadership group (Executive Team) that will provide day-today
process oversight, assistance in data acquisition, meeting coordination, draft

report reviews. etc; and

DRAFT

A Strategic Planning Steering Committee (Steering Committee) consisting of
System Board, management, and clinical leadership, as well as representatives
of selected constituency groups.

?Maet with the Entecutlve Team to:

Discuss and re?ne strategic planning objectives and approach:

Discuss the objectives and format of the Board retreat:

identify key constituencies and stakeholders who will need to be interview-red or
otherwise provide Input into the process; and

Agree on a timetable. progress milestones, communications processes, etc.

- Facilitate a Board Retreat in May to formally launch the engagement process. The
Board Retreat agenda may include {but is not limited to) the following topics:

Overview of the strategic planning process and key 
Discussion regarding the current status of the System: key challenges,
and opportunities; .

identi?cation of ?must issues and priorities that the Board deems
critical to the process:

Consensus regarding core principles that will intonn and guide the planning
process, .

Role of Board in process

input from key stakeholders

Overall goals and direction for the planning process

Policy guidelines regarding a broad range of options ?exibility to
rede?ne service portfolio, getting inlou't of certain business linesl?sites.
outsourcing key sewioe'lineslsuppon functions. other as appropriate);
Possible guest-speaker (to be discussed).

0 I I

. Coordinate with the Executive Team and with public relations representatives to ensure
that Retreat proceedings are recorded and distributed in an appropriate fashion.

Phase lL-Discovegz

The Phase ll?Discovery process is designed to provide an assessment of the System?s
external and internal environments. as well as identi?cation of the critical issues and options for

future development. We will:

Review relevant health-related data and projections for Cook County:
- Population and demographic 

Socio-economic characteristics:
Morbidity and mortality indicesitrends; and
Uninsured and medically indigent populations?numbers, trends. geography.

DRAFT
I Acquire and analyze the following types of 

utilization data and historic trends?inpatient. outpatient, ancillary;
market-area hospital patient databases:
- State inpatient data base (SIDJ:
9 Patient originimarket share:
- Comparative performance indicators (ORG Analyst};
Other. as appropriate;
Pro?les of other healthcare systems' In the market and their comparative
indicators:
- Market research and consumer opinion surveys (as available):
-- Patient opinion surveys (as availabie):
- Medical staff pro?ts. for both permanent staff and physicians' In training
(residents. fellows). specialty and age mix. admissions history;
- Medical staff recruitment plan:
- Current plans for project-speci?c program. service. and facility development.
evaluations and master plan (as available);
- Assessments and benchmark targets? In key areas of operations. including
revenue cycle. productivity. and suppiy chain management;
Other assessments of infrastructure and capital needs 
Financial statements for the past ?ve years;

Capital and operating budgets:
Assessments and recommendations of various advisers and groups g. .. Blue

Ribbon Commission): and
Other planning documents and databases, as needed.

I Examine other county systems' In the U. where progressive heatthcare delivery and
?nancing models have been implemented; undertake benchmark research on model
structures. ?nancial performance. and operational performance

. Concurrent with the above activities. conduct intenriewsl'focus group sessions with:

Board members;

Cook County Commissioners;

County Department of Health executives.

Representatives of other health agencies. associations. and
consumer advocacy groups:

- Community organizations that have ties to 

Senior Management.
OCHHS Medical Staff Of?cers and clinical staff. including residentsifellows

Selected employeesimiddle management;
Executive and clinical leadership from af?liated hospitals and health systems;

and
Other as appropriate.

(For purposes of scheduling and budgeting. it Is anticipated that approximately 100- 120
stakeholders veil! be participating' In interviews andior focus groups.)

DRAFT

- . Facilitate ?Town Hall? meetings with a of County residenislconsumers
to elicit input re: health care interests, concerns. and priorities. These meetings will be:
Conducted in local neighborhood settings. and .
Coordinated with PRfmarketing resources to enhance visibility and community
connection to the process. -
We will support in the development of an interactive Website for enhanced
communications with key stakeholders, and the processing of infonnatlon
thereby obtained.

I Based on the above infonnatlon and evaluations. develop a summary assessment of:
County health needs and related trends. and
The cun'ent status of weaknesses. and opportunities
regarding such areas as service pro?le. market position. medical staff
development. ?nancial performance. and capital needs, and overall
organizational effectiveness.

- Facilitate a working session with the Strategic Planning Steering Committee to share the
?ndings of the Phase ill?Discovery process. .

Phase lit?Strategic Direction

In Phase the consultants will work closely with the Leadership Team and Strategic Planning
Steering Committee in developing a vision. core goals. and overall strategic direction for Cook

County Health and Hospitals System. We will:

I identify opportunities and options. Development opportunities may include. but
not be limited to. the following:

Evaluating and challenging the current delivery system con?guration?taking a
?clean sheet? approach to identifying the optimal distribution and use of System
resources based on criteria related'to access and ciinicalloost-effectiveness;

- Developing a clinical service platform that is more market-responsive.
competitive. and economically self~sustaining; and

Optimizing the use of System resources by identifying services to be provided
intemally versus through partnerships or vla contractual relationships with other
providers. .

- As an integral part of the above analyses. complete a portfolio analysis of the System's
relevant business units and clinical service lines based on:
Market attractiveness (size. growth characteristics. pro?tability. competitor
strength. etc): and 
Current System (market and ?nancial performance. staff capabilities.
technology. level of integration. clinical leadership. etc). .

- Identify speci?c service lines that should be considered as priorities for focused
development of clinical centers of excellence. with an emphasis on those areas that can
have the most impact on the System in terms of market position and economic
contribution. Also. evaluate opportunities for partnership or outsourcing services andi'cr

4.

DRAFT

market segments that are not an optimal ?t with capabilities pro?le. (See
example service line portfolio matrix, below.) .

lot-elo- Lin- Portfolio Analyst: Example

 

 

 

 


In IMII. Concetta-to 1mm?. Mali-ruin
. m. 
(B I
G)

new
Autism-roam Consolidate. Peru-tor. Maintain
ur Div-at:

. .- 0 0
Low 
comm Cap-com 
fir-Items! Performance}

Facilitate a BoardiStrategic Planning Committee ?visioning' retreat. The retreat-will be
scheduled for a full working day. and will be structured to develop group consensus
regarding a shared vision for the future development of Cook County Health and
Hospitals System. with an emphasis on an optimal future state scenario of what County
health care services could optimally 'look like? in the future. {This visioning process will
include a 'ciean sheet? approach to delivery system design as referenced above. The
objective is to not be restricted in thinking about the current con?guration of the System

and its distribution of services as they are now. butto took at an optimal System design

that makes the host use of resources in meeting commitments to access. quality. and
cost effectiveness.)

Translate the vision. core goals. and strategic initiatives for future direction and

development specifying:
Overall role and program development;

Growth targets and strategies;
Clinical service line focus areas (centers of excellence);

Physician leadership and staf?ng:
- Roles and organizational interface between other health systems and

agencies; and
Organizational development.

Summarize Phase outputs and make a progress report to the Executive Team and to
the Steering Committee.

DRAFT

Phase iV?Financi'ai Pier-r

Phase IV entails the development of a 3-year forecast. to be accomplished in two major steps.
First. a baseline forecast will be developed. Once the baseline forecast is developed. strategic
initiatives will be modeled separately and than incorporated into the model. We wrll:

- Develop a baseline forecast (?momsntum budget") based on current trending and prior
to incorporating strategic initiatives:
Perform trend analysis of each of the major operating units: 
Link key operating statistics with ?nancial and with trends that will
impact future periods; .
Acquirei'analyze historical ?nancial and operating statistics:
- Meet with key personnel to gain insights regarding key trends. historical changes.
and likely changes in near future: and
Assemble data and complete analytics.

I Validate past and current methods of revenueiexpense forecasting and budgeting.
including: validation data capture. key processes. assumptions. and resulting accuracy
of historical forecasts and budgets. We will:

Interview personnel responsible for budgetlforecasting process;
Acquireianalyze key forecast process information;
Acquireianalyze historical budgets. forecasts and strategic plans. budget vs.
actual reporting;
Develop a forecast based on trended ?nancial data. by operating unit and for
shared servicesioverhead (based on historical ?nancial and operational trends?
this forecast will represent likely performance in the absence of strategic
initiatives): 
Develop a quarterly three?year forecast based on historical trending for each of
the operating units; 
Meet 'with key personnel of operating units to elicit feedback and re?nements
regarding the forecasts; and .
Revise forecasts based on shared input.




- Develop the logic structure to perform sensitivity modeling. factoring in key assumptions
. that will have a? significant impact on the forecast. such as volume lavets. reimbursement
rates. payer mix. staf?ng levels. salary increases. and capital expenditures: 

As part of the development of the forecast model. build in key drivers that wril 
have material impact on ?nancial performance;

Meet with key members of organization to re?ne key assumptions and develop a
ccnidor of reasonableness for those assumptions; and

Perform sensitivity analysis base on key assumptions conservative. most
likely. and optimistic scenarios].

DRAFT

. Upon completion attire momentum forecast, incorporate performance improvement
initiatives into the 3?year forecast. Key steps will be to:

Model key strategic and development initiatives:

Develop the business case for each initiative. including the resulting impact on
?nancial performance. required capital investment. return on investment (so it
can be compared to other initiatives}. and timetines of the proposed initiative:

For each initiative. develop key milestones and timelines prior to incorporation
into the budget (as a tool for measuring perionnanoe-to-pian);

- Meet with key System executives to re?ne key assumptions and develop a
conidor of reasonableness for key assumptions; .

- Perform sensitivity analyses based on key assumptions (cg. conservative. most
likely. optimistic); and

- In addition to the strategic initiatives. incorporate other major ?nancial
improvement initiatives that has identi?ed (productivity improvements.
revenue cycle and supply chain).

- Based on the developed forecast (baseline plus key strategic initiatives). complete the
forecastimodel roll-up. with multiple iterations. as necessary. prior to ?nal approvals:

incorporate all key strategic initiatives into the forecast;

Meet with key personnel to review and re?ne;

Identify the key 'owners" for each strategic initiative. and jointly develop tracking
tools; and

Deveiop reporting tools (high-level and initiative-speci?c) to support the
management of strategic initiatives and ensure sound ?nancial management
processes going forward. - .

Phase .V?Action Plan

 

The speci?cs of the action planning step will be driven by the overall strategic direction .
established with the consensus of the collective System leadership. At this juncture. we will
work closely with the members of the Executive Team and Strategic Planning Steering
Committee to translate the preferred strategic direction into a step?wise action plan. Speci?cally.

we will:

. Link the overall strategic direction and core goats to speci?c strategic initiatives and
action steps;

I Establish timetables for implementation;

- Ensure that initiatives have ?owners? and that there is identi?ed accountability for
execution;

. Identify performance metrics as a basis for monitoring using dashboard measures; and

 

10

DRAFT

- Link targets. timetables, and responsibilities to Executive and Board reporting
mechanisms. (See ?gure below.)

Sta HHS

 

 

Sire! is 5; Measures u!
Goats Targets cg motion Angesaaea??adtrewon ?comm: titty

 

 

 

 

 

 

I Complete the Strategic Plan and make presentations to various stakeholders for review

and comment:
Executive Team;
- Strategic Planning Steering Committee:
Physician and employee representatives: and

Other, as appropriate.

(A total of ?ve presentations is estimated for budgeting purposes.)

- Based on the input from the above. make ?nal revisions to the dratt Strategic Plan
document:

- . Make presentations otthe completed Strategic Plan to the above stakeholders. to the
Cook County Board of Commissioners, and to other audiences. as appropriate.

(A total of ?ve presentations is estimated for budgeting purposes.)

11

- Coordinate with the Executive Team and public relations representatives to ensure that
Vision and Strategic Plan are appropriately recorded and distributed to
venous in a timely fashion.

C. Project Schedule

We understand that the Board has committed to the completion of a strategic plan within a 
relatively short timetable with a strategic "road map" in place as soon as practically.r possible.
Accordingly. we would be in a position to initiate engagement activities within two weeks of
acceptance. and estimate that the scope of work as outlined will require approximately six (6)

months to complete.

The overall engagement timetable. by phase, is summarized below:

   

r. reckon 
Board Ethel!

Slams Group
Holt-OH Meeting

- Engagement Start-
up 8: Data
Acquisition

Board Reboot
session 

 

Goon

Wm
We Planning Timetable: Pagg ego! 

   


.

 

Ii. Ditoovery

External Mantel

Pro?le 5.
Analysis
Interviews 8. Focus
Groups

- Tomi-tail

Meethgs

Steering Group
Progress Report

 



  
 
 

ilt. Strategic
Direction

- Identi?cation of

Strategic
Opporturilies 
Options

- Boardr'Steerhg
Group Retreat

- melon and Boat
Fonnulatlon

- identification of
Major Strategic


 

I?ll. FimnelolPien

- Development of
'rnornentum'
scenario and
baseline budget
Financial Modeling
re: Impact of
Strategic Direction
- Completion of 3-
year Flnarrolal
Plans
- Development of
Targets and
Motrin for Intemal
Management
Reporlie

. Development of
Adina Finns:
- Stilton}:

-Timelables

- Resource
requirements

- Implementation
roles and
responsi?ttiss

- identi?cation of
Perfonnance Targets

- Tran-station of
Targets to Speci?c
Metrics for
Dashboard
Monitori'rg

 

12

DRAFT

PROJECT TEAM

John Abendshien will assume responsibility for the overall conduct and quality of this
engagement, and will participate actively in the overall process. John has over 30 years of
experience as a strategy consultant and advisor. and has provided assistance in the areas of
strategic planning, businesslciinical model design. mergers and acquisitions. and corporate and
management restructuring to healthcare organizations throughout the U.S. John is a frequent
speaker and Isoturer on the subject of strategic planning and Organizational change
management. Recent articles include "Managing the Future.? Health Forum Journal. He is a
Fellow and Past Chair of the American Association of Healthcare Consultants. and is a member
of the Governance 100. Prior to founding John was Partner and National Director of Ernst
Young LLP's U.S. health-Ire strategy practice. with overall responsibility for that ?nn?s
healthcare strategy staf?ng. methodologies. and client engagements. . .

Mayor Patel will assume a lead role in overseeing analytical and qualitative research activities.
He will also participate actively in interviews. focus groups. work sessions. and progress
meetings. Mayor has 20 years of experience as a healthcare planner and consultant and has
conducted a broad range of strategic planning engagements. feasibility studies. and
performance improvement engagements for hospitals and physician groups throughout the
U.S.. Eastern Europe. and East Africa. He also has an extensive background in the
assessment of emerging clinical technologies and the ongoing scanning of business trends in
healthcare delivery. Prior to working with Mayur was a Senior Manager in the healthcare

practice at PriceWaterhouseCoopers.

. Harold Emahiser will serve as ?nancial adviser. and will provide the technical expertise in
support of the development of ?nancial assumptions and models. Harold has extensive
experience as a ?nancial planner and analyst. including a past role as a senior consultant with
national healthcare strategy practice. He has worked with hospitals and physician
groups throughout the country in preparing ?nancial forecasts. financial feasibility studies.
valuations. and one diligence analyses. He also has extensive experience in working with
healthcare institutions in tumarcund situations. including signi?cant work performed on behalf of

the firm of Spelt: and Weis.

Mark Janaclr will provide specialized expertise in the evaluation of the System's clinical
services and delivery platforms. and in the development of priorities and plans for development
of speci?c clinical service lines. He will also assume a lead role in evaluating the System's
medical staff pro?le and related needs. Mark has extensive experience in the design and
implementation of clinical centers ofexcelience.?and in the implementation of inter-
organizational and hpspital-to-physician joint venture relationships. He has over 20 years of
experience working in clinical. administrative, and consulting capacities. Prior to joining 
Mark served as Co-Director of the Cleveland Spine and Arthritis Center.

10

13

t" 


n. 
I


James Litton will provide senior-level assistance in support of the overall engagement effort.
and will assume a lead role in conducting interview and focus group sessions. Jim has worlted
exclusively as a healthoare executive and advisor since 19?.2. providing assistance to hospitals.
health systems. and related organizations in strategy formulation, governance. business
planning. and medical staff development Jim writes and speaks on key issues in healthcare
management. including strategy. medical staff development, and healthcare system
performance (including a project with AHA's section on healthcare systems). He has been
published in Trustee. Health Care Strategic Management. and Spectrum. and has served as a
faculty member for the ACHE Congress. Jim' Is a Fellow of the American College of Health-rare
Executives where he has served on the Committee on Elections and theRegent?s Advisory
Council for Metropolitan Chicago. Jim rs also a certrt? ed public accountant.

Anne Barrett will provide technical as well as facilitation assistance in the design and conduct
of interviews. focus groups. and Town Hall Meetings. Anne has over 15 years of expensnce in
strategic planning and related consulting services to the healthcere industry. Her clients have
included community hospitals. academic medical centers. health care systems, multiespecreltv
physician groups. government research agencies. insurers. and professional associations. Her
areas of expertise include enterprise strategy development. mergers and acquisitions, .
organizational design. cost accounling. primary and secondary data collection and and
boardtexecutivelprofessional staff meeting facilitation.

Prior to her work with 103 Anne served as a senior consultant' In the national healthcare
strategy rm of Abendshien Associates. inc. and previously was a Senior Manager In Ernst and
Young LLP's U. S. health-are strategy practice.

Medical Advising; Fan of

ICS maintains a medical advisory panel of highly-recognized physicians' In key specialties. with
particular emphasis on physicians having in-depth expertise in major clinical service lines such
as orthopedics. neurosurgery. and cardiovascular surgery. These individuals will be available to

serve in a consultative and advisory capacity. as needed.

Other professional staff members will be assigned. as appropriate.

IV. CONTACT INFORMATION

Chief Contact for CCI-IHS
William T. Foley

Chief Executive Of?cer
1900 W. Polk St, Ste 220
Chicago, Il 60612

Chief Contact the Contractor
John 

President 

10 South Riverside Plaza
Ste 1800

Chicago, It 60606

11

l4

DRAFT

EXHIBIT 
PAYMENT TERMS

Based upon the scope of work described in Exhibit A, fees will be based on actual staff hours
necessary to complete the assignment, extended by the standard billing rates of the Contractor.
Changes in work scope or approach that may be requested by could affect the fee
schedule, and will be subject to mutual agreement. In any case, the Contractor will not extend
the scope of services or exceed this fee quote without the prior knowledge and expressed

approval of 

Fees will be:
Completion of Strategic Plan (excluding Phase IV, Financial Plan) will not exceed $320,000.

Completion of Phase 1V, Financial Plan will not exceed $123,000.

Direct expenses, including travel, databases, and similar expenses will be billed in addition to the
professional fees and will not exceed 10% of the total professional fees, or $43,300 _for this

engagement.

Contractor will bill both professional fees and direct fees on a basis, submitting detailed
. invoices that include actual profession hours expended (and by which members of the
Contractor?s team), copies of all receipts for direct expenses, etc.

DRAW 

GENERAL CONDITIONS

SUPPLYISERWCE
SOLE SOURCE
CONTENTS
SUECONTRACITNO OR ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT OR CONTRACT .
FUNDS 3
4
OC-IE INSURANCE 4
4
GODS INDEMNIFICATION 5
5
PREPAID FEES 5
CODE TAXES 5
60-09 PRICE REDUCTION 6
CREDIIS 6
GC-II DISPUTES 6
Gc-Iz DEFAULT 7
COUNTY REMEDIES 7 
GC-I4 CONTRACTOR REMEDIES 7
GC-I DELAYS 8

PATENTS, COPYRIGHTSANDLICENSES 8?9
(SCI 3 COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS 9 a
(EC-19 MINORITYAND wow BUSINESS ENTERPRISE 911
GC-ZB MATERIAL DATA SAFETY SHEET . II
CONDUCT OFTEECONIRACTOR 11
0022 ACCIDENT REPORTS - 
(30-23 USE OFTHECOUNTY PREMISES 12
GENERAL NOTICE 12

TERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT I2
(EC-26 GUARANTEES AND WWII-ES 13


.I



15

 STANDARD OF DELWERABLES

(Tc?23 DELWERY

(EC-29 QUANTITIES

comer MERPRETATION

Comm AND OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

.Gc-Sz AUDIT

(Tc-33 GOVERMNG LAW

ISO-34 WANEE

GC-SS ENTIRE CONTRACT

FORCE MAJEUEE 0R DELAYS

r3037 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR NO THIRD PARTY
BENEFICIARIES 

DRAFT

 
I-I. J'I-p-t- 

GC?til anaconrnacrmc on ASSIGNMENT or comer on 
runes

Once awarded, this Contract shall not be subcontracted or assigned, in whole or in part, without the
advance written approval of the Purchasing Agent, which approval shall be granted or wi?iheld at
the sole discretion of the Purchasing Agent. In no case, however, shall such approval relieve the
Contractor ?'om its obligations or change the terms of the Contract. The Contractor shall not
transfer or assign any Contract funds or any interest therein due or to become due without the
advance written approval of the Purchasing Agent. The unauthorized subcontracting or assignment
of the Contract, in whole or in part, or the unauthorized transfer or assignment of any Contract
?uids, either in whole or in part, or any interest therein, which shall be due or are to become due the

Contractor shall have no effect on the County and are null and void.

Prior to the commencement of the Contract, the Contractor shall identify in writing to the
Purchasing Agent the any and all subcontractors it intends to use in the performance of the
Contract. The Purchasing Agent shall have the right to disapprove any subcontractor.
Identification of subcontractors to the Purchasing Agent shall be in addition to any communications
with County o?ices other than the Purchasing Agent. All subcontractors shall be subject to the
terms of this Contract. Contractor shall incorporate into all subcontracts all of the provisions ofthe
Contract which affect such subcontract Copies of subcontracts shall he provided to the Purchasing

Agent upon request.

The Contractor must disclose the name and business address of each subcontractor?, attomeyA.?
lobbyist, accountant, consultant and any other person or entity whom the Contractor has retained or
expects to retain in connection with the Matter, as well as the nature of the relationship?, and the
total amount of the fees paid or estimated to be paid. The Contractor is not required to disclose
employees who are paid or estimated to be paid. The Contractor is not required to disclose
I?'vmiili?yees who are paid solely through the contractor's regular payroll. ?Lobbyist" means any
person or entity who undertakes to in?uence any legislation or administrative action on behalf of
any person or entity other than) a not-for?pro?t entity", on an unpaid basis?, or him?lf-
"Lobbyist" also means any person or entity any part of whose duties as an employee 0f 3110111?
includes undertaking to in?uence any legislative or administrative action. If the Contractor is
uncertain whether a disclosure is required under this Section, the Contractor must either ask the
County, whether disclosure is required or make the disclosure.

The County reserves the right to prohibit any person ?orn entering any County facility for any
reason. All contractors and subcontractors of the Contractor shall be accountable to the Director Of
the Using Department or his designee while on any County property and shall abide by all rules and
regulations imposed by the County.

17

tiara: - 

PERSONNEL

The quality, experience and availability of personnel employed by the Contractor is of the essence.
The Contractor shall provide the County with a list of all key personnel to be used on the project
and their designated assignment. The list shall include the quali?cations of each person named.
The County may at any time request, in writing, the Contractor to remove any of the Contractor's
assigned personnel for cause and forthwith ?rmish to_the County other acceptable personnel With

thirty (30) days of noti?cation. Notwithstanding the Countys approval of Contractor's personnel, 

the Contractor shall be ?rlly responsible to County for all work performed pursuant to this Contract
by Contractor?s ernployees. subcontractors or others who may be retained by the Contractor with the

approval of the County.

INSURANCE

Contractor shall purchase and maintain at all times during the term of this Contract insurance
coverage which is satisfactory to the County and wilt satisfactorily insure the Contractor agai?it
claims and liabilities which arise or could arise because of the performance or nonperforrnancc of
- the Contract. All insurance required hereunder shall meet the requirements of the County?s
Department of Risk Management and shall name the County as an additional insured unless such
designation is unavailable due to commercial practices in the insurance industry as to a particular
type of coverage. With the exception of certi?cates required to be submitted with the Proposal.
Contract shall?deliver to the County satisfactory certi?cates evidencing compliance With this
insurance provision prior to conunencing performance under the Contract.

INSPECTION AND RESPONSIBILITY

At any and at all times during the term of the Contract and at any location where the Contract is
perfumed, the County shall have a right to inspect any Dcliverables provided in can'ying out this
Contract. The Contractor shall be solely responsible for the quality and standards of?il DBIiVEl'abl?
. ?rmished under this Contract. Deliverables may be rejected by the Purchasing Agent andfor the
Director of the Using Department if they fail to meet Contract requirements or are provided in a
manner which does not meet Contract requirements. Li the event of such rejection. 
shall be rcplaced andfor rte-perfumed by the Contractor and at no additional cost to the
County. Any Deliverables rejected shall be removed within a reasonable time from the premises of
the County at the entire expense of the Contractor, after notice has been given by the COMING the
Contractor that such Deliverables have been rejected.



..



18



INDEMNIFICATION

The Contractor covenants and agrees to indemnify and save hannless the County and .its
commissioners, of?cials, employees, agents and representatives, and their respective heirs,
successors and assigns, from and against any and all costs, expenses, attorneys fees, loses-5.
damages and liabilities incurred or suffered directly or indirectly ham or attributable to any claims
arising out of or incident to the performance or nonperi'onnanee of the Contract by the Contractor,
or the acts or omissions of the of?cers, agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors, licensees 0r
invitees of the Contractor. The Contractor expressly understands and agrees that any Performance
Bond or insurance protection required of the Contractor, or otherwise provided by the Contractor,
shall in no way limit the responsibility to indemnify the County as hereinabove provided.

.GC-titi PAYMENT

All invoices submitted by the Contractor shall be in accordance with the cost provisions contained
in the Contract Documents and shall contain a detailed description of the Deliverables for which
payment is requested. All invoices shall re?ect the amounts invoiced by and the amounts pard to the

Contractor as of the date of the invoice, and shall be submitted together widi a G?Jl'l'lli?l?teIE1 -

County Voucher form (29A). Invoices for new charges shall not include "past due? amounts, if
any, which amounts must be set forth on_a separate invoice. No payments shall be made with
respect to invoices which do not include the County Voucher form or which odterwise'farl to
comply with the requirements of this paragraph. Contractor shall not be entitled to invoice the

County for any late fees or other penalties.

PREPAID FEES

In the event this Contract is terminated by either party, for cause or and the County has
prepaid for'any'Deliverables, Contractor shall refund to the County, on a prorated basis to the
effective date of tennination,-all amounts prepaid for Deliverables not actually provided as of the
effective date of the termination. The re?rnd shall be made within fourteen (14) days of the

e?'ective date 

TAXES 1

Federal Excise Tax does not- apply to materials purchased by the County by virtue of Exemption
Certi?cate No. Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax, Use Tax and Municipal Retailers?
Occupation Tax do not apply to deliverables, materials or services purchased by the County by
virtue of statute. The price or prices quoted herein shall include any and all other federal andt'or
state, direct andfor indirect taxes which apply to this Contract. The County?s State of Sales
Tax. Exemption Identi?cation No. is 39998-201305.

19

 009 PRICE REDUCTION

If at any time after the contract award, Contractor makes a general price reduction in the price of
any of the Deliverables, the equivalent price reduction based on similar quantities andlor
considerations shall apply to this Contract for the duration of the Contract period. For proposes of
this Section Price Reduction, a general price reduction shall include reductions in the
effective price charged by Contractor by reason of rebates. ?nancial incentives, discounts, value
points or other honefits with respect to the purchase of the Deliverables. Such price reductions shall
be effective at the same time and in the same manner as the reduction Contractor makes in the price
of the Deliverables to its prospective customers generally.

GC-ltl CONTRACTOR CREDITS

To the extent the Contractor gives credits toward future purchases of goods or services, ?nancial
incentives discounts, value points or other bene?ts ba5ed on the purchase of the materials or
services provided for under this Contract, such credits belong to the County and not any specr?c
using department. Contractor shall re?ect any such credits on its invoices and in the amounts rt

invoices the County.

I DISPUTES

Any dispute arising under the Contract between-the County and Contractor shall be decided by the
Purchasing Agent. The complaining party shall submit a written statement detailing the dispute and
specifying the speci?c relevant Contract provision(s) to the Purchasing Agent. Upon request of the
Purchasing Agent, the party complained against shall respond to the complaint in writing within
?ve days of such request. The Purchasing Agent will reduce his decision to writing and mail or
otherwise ?rmish a copy thereof to the Contractor and the Director of the Using Department. The
decision of the Purchasing Agent will be ?nal and binding. Dispute resolution as provided herein
shall be a condition precedent to any other action at law or inequity. However, unless a notice is
issued by the Purchasing Agent indicating that additional time is required to review a dispute, the
parties may exercise their contractual remedies, if any, if no decision is made within sixty (60) days
following notification to the Purchasing Agent of a dispute. No inference shall be drawn from the
absence of a decision by the Purchasing Agent. Notwithstanding a dispute, Connector shall
condone to discharge all its obligations. duties and responsibilities set forth in the Contract during
any dispute resolution proceeding unless otherwise agreed to by the County in writing.

GC-12 DEFAULT

Contractor shall he in default heretmder in the event of a material breach by Contractor of any term
or condition of this Contract including, but not limited to, a representation or warranty. where
Contractor has failed to cure such breach within ten (10) days a?er written notice of breach is given
to Contractor by the County, setting forth the nature of such breach. . 

In the event Contractor shall breach any material tenns or conditions of this Contract on more than
one occasion during any twelve month period during the term herself} or in the event Contractor
. expresses an unwillingness or inability to continue perihnning the Conn-act in accordance with its
terms, the County may, at its option, declare the Contractor to he in default and the County shall be
entitled to exercise all available remedies including, but not limited to. termination of the Contract.
without affording the Contractor ?n'ther opportunity to care such breach. Failure of County to give
mitten notice of breach to the Contractor shall not be deemed to be' a waiver of the County?s right
to assert such breach at a later time, should the Conn-actor commit a subsequent breach of this

Connect.

20



County shall be in default hereunder if any material breach of the Contact by County occurs which
is not cured by the County within ninety (90) days alter written notice has been given by Contractor
to the County, setting forth the nature of such breach. -

oc?ls someones

Following notice of material breach to Contractor, the County reserves the right to withhold
payments otherwise owed to Contractor until such time as Contractor has cured the breach.

If the Contractor fails to remedy a material breach during the ten (10) day cure period pursuant 10
General Condition GC-IZ, Default, or if Contractor commits a subsequent material breach within a
twelve month period or expresses an unwillingness or inability to continue perfonning the Contract
in accordance with its the County shall have the right to terminate this Contract upon Written
notice to the Contractor which shall set forth the effective date of such termination.

In addition; the County shall have the right to pursue all remedies in law or equity.

REMEDIES

If the County has been noti?ed of breach and fails to remedy the breech during the'ninet?QD) day
cure period pursuant to General Condition Default, the Contractor shall have the right-to
tenninate this Contract upon not less than thirty (30) days prior written notice to the County. 
notice shall set forth the effective date of termination.

Contractor shall have the right to pursue all remedies available in law or equity, hi all cases the
Contractor's damages shall be those actual provable damages not to exceed the amount of the
Conn-act as awarded by the Cook County Board of Commissioners less all amounts paid to
Contractor, hi no event shall Contractor be entitled to any consequential damages. Irrespective of
the exercise of remedies hereunder, Contractor shall not disrupt the County's operations or

repossess any component therco?

DELAYS

Contractor agrees that no charges or claims for damages shall be made by Contractor for any delays
or hindrances ?'om any cause whatsoever during the progress of any portion of this Contact.

GC-16 MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS

The parties may from time to time during the term of the Contract make modi?cations and
amendments to the Contract but only as provided in this section. Such modi?cations and
amendments shall only be made by mutual agreement in writing. Modi?cations and amendments
which individually or cumulatively result in additional cost 031,000.00 or greater or which extend
the term of the Contract by thirty (30) days or more shall not be deemed as authorized without the
approval of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. Modi?cations and amendments which
increase cost by less than or which do not extend the term of the Contract by more than
thirty (30) days may only be made with the written approval ofthe Purchasing Agent.

Subject to the foregoing, the Director of the Using Department may, by written order, make
changes with respect to the dates of delivery and places of performance of the Connect, crowded
that any such changes shall not increase the Contract price or the time required for Cunlr??l

perfonItance.

21

Contractor is hereby noti?ed that, except for modi?cations and amendments which are made in
accordance with this Section GC-ld, Modi?cations and Amendments, no County department or 
employee thereof has authority to make any modi?cation or amendment to this Contract.

PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES

Contractor shall furnish the Directorof the Using Department with all licenses required for the
County to utilize any software, including ?nnware or middleware,? provided by Conn-actor as part
of the Deliverables. Such licenses shall be clearly marl-red witir a reference to the number of this
County Contract. Conn-actor shall also fumish a copy of such licenses to the Purchasing Agent.
Unless otherwise stated in these Contract documents, such licenses shall be perpetual and shall nut
limit the number of persons who may utilize the software on behalf of the County.

Contractor agrees to hold hannless and indemnify the County, its of?cers, agents, employees and
af?liates ?oor and defend, at its own expense (including reasonable attorneys?, accountants' and
consultants? fees), any suit or proceeding brought against County based upon a claim that the
ownership and/or use of equipment, hardware and software or any part thereof provided to the
County or utilized in performing Conn-actor's services constitutes an in?-ingernent of any patent.

copyright or license or any other preperty right.
GC?l?l' PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES (CONTJ,

In the event the use of any equipment, hardware or sottware or any part thereof is enjoined,
Contractor with all reasonable speed and due diligence shall provide or otherwise secure for
County, at the Contractor?s election, one of the following: the right to continue use of the
equipment, hardware or software; an equivalent system having the Speci?cations asprovided to
this Contract; or Contractor shall modify the system or its component parts so that they become
non?infringing while performing in a substantially similar manner to the original system, meeting
the requirements of this Contract.

COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS

The Contractor shall observe and comply with the laws, ordinances, regulations and codes of the
Federal, State, County and other local government agencies which may in any manner a?'ect the
performance of the Contract including, but not limited to, those County Ordinances set forth in the
Certi?cations attached hereto and incorporated herein. Assurance of compliance 1With this
requirement by the Contractor?s employees, agents or subcontractors shall be the responsibility of

the Contractor.

The Contractor shall secure and pay for all federal, state and local licenses, permits and fees

required hereunder.

GC-19 mom can wosmn ENTERPRISES
no or: com annoyance unscrew 6. scenes 34.275 - 34-235

1. POLICY AND GOALS

. A. It is the policy of the County of Cook to prevent discrimination in the award 0f 01'
participation in County contracts and to eliminate arbitrary borders for participation, as both prime
and subcontractors, in such contracts by local businesses certi?ed as Minority Business Enterprises
(MBE) and Women-owned Business Enterprises (was). hi firrtherance ofthis policy, the Cook
County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Minority- and Women-owned Business Enterprise

DRAFT

Ordinance (the "Ordinance? which establishes a "best efforts" goal of awarding not less than thirty-
five of the annual total dollar amount of professional and consulting service contracts and
sole source agreements to certi?ed MBEs and WBEs.

B. A contractor may achieve the contract participation goals by its atoms as
a MBE or by entering into a joint venture with one or more MBEs andr'or by
subcontracting a portion of the work to one or more MBEs or by entering into a Mentor-
Protege Agreement with a MBE or by the indirect participation of MBEs or WBEs in other
aspects of the contractor?s business; or by a combination of the foregoing.

C. A contractor's failure to carry out its MBEIWBE commitments in the course of a
contractor?s performance shall constitute a material breach of the contract, and if such breach rs not
appropriately cured, may result in the termination of the contract or such other remedy authorized

by the Ordinance as the County deems appropriate.

II. REQUIRED 

To be considered responsive to the requirements of the Ordinance: a contractor for
professional and consulting service contracts shall submit items A, and listed below; and a
contractor for sole source agreements, shall submit items A and listed below. All documentation
submitted by a contractor shall be reviewed by the Coat-act Compliance Administrator. Failure to
submit one of the items required in accordance with these general conditions shall be cause to
consider the contractor's proposal non-responsive and be rejected.

A. Af?rmative Action Plan

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, a copy of its current internal shin-native
action plan. Ifcontractor has no internal affirmative action plan, contractor shall submit a statement
stating why contractor has no such plan. In lieu of an internal a?irmative action plan, a contractor
may submit a copy of its current Letter of Compliance for the United States Department of Labor,

Of?ce of Federal Contract Compliance Programs.

B. Conn-actor's MEWBE Efforts Documgmtion

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, supporting documenta?oa which evidences
efforts the contractor has taken in attempting to achieve the County?s "best efforts? 

. participation goals.

C. Contractor's Statement - Use of Egg. fessiongls

. Each contractor shall'submit with its proposal, a statement which discloses how the
contractor intends to maximize the use of its MBEJWBE professionals in the course of perforating

the contract.

NON 

If the County of Cook determines that the contractor has failed to comply with its
contractual commitments or any portion of the Ordinance, it will notify the contractor of such non?
compliance and may take any and all appropriate actions as set forth within the Ordinance.

23

l-r-J

Dr EFT

I


Iv. REQUIREMENTS

The contractor shall comply with the reporting and record-keeping requirements as may i313
established by the Contact Compliance Administrator. Upon award of a contract, contractor rs
responsible for acquiring all necessary county reporting and record-keeping forms which will be
made available in the Of?ce of Contract Compliance.

V. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

Compliance with MBE and WBE requirements will not diminish or supplant Equal
Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights provisions as otherwise required by law as they relate to
. contractor and subcontractor obligations.

GC?le MATERIAL DATA SAFETY SHEET

Where required under the Illinois '"l?oxic Substance Disclosore To Employees Act", Illinois
Compiled Statutes, 2002, 320 ILCS 255i], Contractor shall submit with each delivery of
Deliverables, a Material Safety Data Sheet.

Gear connucr on THE CONTRACTOR

The Contractor agrees to inform the County on a timely basis of all of the Contractor?s interests, if
any, which are or which the Contractor reasonably believes may be incompatible with any interest
of the County. The Contractor shall take notice of and comply with the Cook County Lobbyist
Registration Ordinance (No. 93-0-22; 6-22-93). Neither the Contractor nor any of its employees
agents or subcontractors shall use for business or personal gain, or make other improper use of;
con?dential information which is acquired in connection with the Contract. To the extent
Contractor will have access to the County's protected health information in performing its
responsibilities under this Contract, Contractor shall contact the Chief Privacy Of?cer for the Using
Department(s) and shall execute the County?s business associate agreement prior to pcrfonning any
responsibilities which involve access to protected health information- 

G022 ACCIDENT REPORTS

Contractor shall provide the Purchasing Agent and the Director of the Using'Department with
prompt 1r'rrittcn noti titration (no later than twenty-fern (24) hours) of any occurrence, on 
premises or otherwise, which pertains in any way to this Contract and which results in either
bodily injury to employees or third parties or property damage. The rcport shall include the ?ame
of personts) injured, if any; name of the injured person's employer, if any: the date, time and

location of the occurrence; description of the extent of injury andfor damage; the tunnels) 0f -

witnesses; the names of any providers lotown to have provided treatment for injuries sustained; and
such other information as may be required by the County. The Contractor shall notify the local
police regarding any occurrence requiring an o?cial police record. The report submitted to the
County should indicate whether the police were noti?ed and, if so, the number of the police report.

GC-23 USE OF COUNTY PREMISES AND RESOURCES

Contractor shall confer with the Director of the Using Department to ascertain ?rll knowledge of all
rules and regulations of the County facilities relative to this Contract and shall cause all of its
employees, agents and subcontractors to comply therewith. The Contractor shall con?ne the
operations of its employees, agents and subcontractors on County premises to the performance of
the Contract consistent with limits indicated by laws, ordinances, permits andr'or direction of the
Director of the Using Department and shall not encumber the premises with materials or debris. In

24

 

performing the Contract, the Contractor shall not cause or permit a condition that endangers the
safety of others and shall not load or permit any part ofa structure to be loaded with a weight that
will endanger the safety of the structure or any persons.

Gill-24 GENERAL NOTICE

All notices required pursuant to this Contract shall be in writing and addressed to the parties at their
respective addresses set forth below. All such notices shall be deemed duly given if hand delivered
or if deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, registered or certi?ed. return receipt
requested. Notice as provided herein does not waive service of summons or process.

TO THE COUNTY:
COOK COUNTY AGENT
118 North Clark Street. Room 1018 Chicago,
Illinois 60602 Include County Contract Number
in all notices)

TO THE CONTRACTOR:
At address provided on the Execution Pages or as otherwise indicated in writing to County

Purchasing Agent in a written document which, in bold face type, references the name of the
Contractor. the County Contract Number and states OF CHANGE IN


GC-ZS WATIDN FDR CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT

The County may terminate this Contract, or any portion, at any time by notice in writing hour the
County to the Contractor. Unless otherwise stated in the notice. the effective date of such
termination shall be three business days after the datethe notice of termination is mailed by the
County. If the County elects to terminate the Contract in ?rll, unless otherwise Specified in the
notice of tennination, the Contractor shall immediately cease performance and shall 
tender to the County all Deliverables, whether completed or in process. If the County elects to
terminate the Contract in part, unless otherwise speci?ed in the notice of partial termination, 1116
Contractor shall immediately cease performance of those portions of the Contract which are
terminated and shall tender to the County all Deliverables relating to said portions ofthe
Contract, whether completed or in process. Contractor shall re?-ain from incurring any ?uther 00515
with respect to portions of the Contract which are terminated except as Speci?cally approved by the

Purchasing Agent.
Gc-zs GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES

The Contractor shall ?rrnish all guarantees and warranties applicable to the Deliverables to the
Director of the Using Department prior to or at the time of delivery. All Deiiverables shall be
covered by the most favorable commercial warranties and guarantees the Contractor gives to any
customer for the same or substantially similar Deliverables or Services. The rights and remedies 50
provided shall be in addition to and shall not limit any rights afforded to County under this

Contract.

To the extent Contractor provides Deliverables manufactured by another entity. Contractor shall
transfer original product warranty and any rights to manufacturer's related services to the County
and shall submit all appropriate documentation of said transfer to the Director of the Using
Department prior to or at the time the Contractor tenders the Deiiverables.

25

 STANDARD OF DELIVERABLES

Except as may be expressly stated in the Special Conditions or Speci?cations of this Contract, only
new, originally manufactured Deliverables will be accepted by the County. The County will not
accept any Deliverables that have been refurbished, rebuilt, restored or renovated in any manner. In
addition, experimental materials willnot be acceptable. Deliverables not produced by regular
production methods andlor which have not been offered for sale to the public through {1008le
industry trade channels for a reasonable period of time prior to the commencement of the Contract

will be considered experimental.

Gil-23 DELIVERY 

All Contact Goods shipped to the County shall be shipped F.O.B., DESTINATION. FREIGHT
PREPAID. be made in advance by the Contractor in order that the County may

arrange for receipt of the materials.

Truck deliveries will be accepted before 3:00 PM. on weekdays only. No deliveries will be
accepted on Saturdays, Sundays or County Holidays. The County is not responsible for delivery
delays due to waiting times forloading and unloading at dock locations.

The quantity of Contract Goods delivered by truck will be ascertained from a weight certi?cate
issued by a duly licensed Public Weight-Master. In the case of delivery by rail, weight will be
ascertained from bill of lading from originating line, but the County reserves the right to re-weigh at
the nearest available railroad scale. 

The County reserves the right to add new delivery locations or delete previously listed delivery
. locations as required during the Contract period. The only restriction regarding the County's right
to add new delivery locations shall be that any new or additional location shall be within the
geographical boundaries of the County of Cook.

GC-29 QUANTITIES

Any quantities of indicated in the Proposal Pages for the performance of the Contract are estimates
for the purpose of determining an approximate total Contract amount and may not be the actual
quantities required by the County during the term of the Contract. The County reserve; the right to
increase or decrease such quantities at the Contract price to correspond to the actual needs of the
County. If the County increases the quantities required, any such increase shall be subject to an
agreed written amendment in the Contract Amount. The County will be obligated to order and pay
for only such quantities as are from time to time ordered, delivered, and accepted on purchase

orders issued by the Purchasing Agent.
CONTRACT INTERPRETATION

Whenever the singular is used herein, the masculine, feminine and neuter gender shall be deemed to
include the others. The headings of articles, paragraphs and sections in this Contract are included
for convenience only and shall not be considered by either party in construing the_meanin3 ofthis
Contract. If any provision or clause of this Contract shall be held to be invalid, such provision or
clause shall be deleted Earn the Contract and the Contract shall be construed to give effect to the

remaining portions thereof.

u-f?trw:

we





26

.3. .- 
- Q. 
.t 

at" 



This Contract shall be interpreted and construed based upon the following order of precedencepf
component parts. Such order of precedence shall govern to resolve all cases of con?ict, ambigtmy

or inconsistency.

1. Addenda, if any.

2. Execution Forms

3. Speci?cation.

4. SpecialConditions.
5. General Conditions.
6. Instruction to Bidders.
Legal Advertisement.
8. Bid Proposal.

CONFIDENTIALITY AND OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

Contractor acknowledges and agrees that information regarding this Contract is con?dential and
shall not be disclosed, directly, indirectly or by implication, or be used by Contractor in any way.
whether during the term of this Contract or at any time thereafter, except solely as required in the
course of Contractor's performance hereunder. Contractor shall comply with the applicable privacy
laws and regulations affecting County and will not disclose any of County's records, materials. 01'
other data to any third party. Contractor shall not have the right to compile and distribute statistical
analyses and reports utilizing data derived item information or data obtained from County without
the prior written approval of County. In the event such approval is given, any such reports
published and distributed by Contractor shall be furnished to County without charge.

(EC-31 CONFIDENTIALITY AND OF 

All doctunents, data. studies, reports, work product or product created as a result of the pcrfonnancc
. of the Contract (the "Documents? shall be included in the Deliverables and shall be the property of
the County of Cook. It shall be a breach ofthis Contract for the Contractor to reproduce or use any
documents, data, studies, reports, work product or product obtained from the County of Cook or
any Documents created hereby, whether such rcproduction or use is for Contractor's own purposes
or for those of any third party. During the performance of the Contract Contractor shall be
responsible of any loss or damage to the Documents while they are in Contractor's possession. and
any suchloss or damage shall be'restored at the expense of the Contractor. The County and its
designees shall be afforded full access to the Documents and the work at all times.

EXAMINATION OF RECORDS

The Contractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor or any of its duly authorized representatives
shall, until expiration of three years after the ?nal payment under the Conn-act, have access and
the right to examine any books, documents, papers, canceled checks, bank statements, purveyor's
and other invoices, and records of the Contractor related to the Contract, or to Contractor's
compliance with any tenn, condition or provision thereof. The Contractor shall be reaponsiblc for
establishing arid maintaining records suf?cient to document the costs associated with performance

under the terms of this Contract.

The Contractor further agrees that it shall include in all of its subcontracts hereunder a provision to
the effect thatthe subcontractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor or any of its duly authorized
representatives shall, until expiration of three (3) years after ?nal payment under the subcontract.
have access and the right to exatnine any books, documents, papers, canceled checks. hank


l.

27

D133. A

statements, purveyor-'5 and other invoices and records of such subcontractor involving transactions
relating to the subcontract, or to such subcontractor's compliance with any term, condition or
provision thereunder or under the Contract.

In the event the Contractor receives payment under the Contract, reimbursement fur which is later
disallowed by the County, the Contractor shall re?rnd the disallowed amount to the
C?unty on request, or at the County's option, the County may credit the amount disallowed ?'om the
next payment due or to become due to the Contractor under any contract with the County.

Gil-32 EXAMINATION 0F RECORDS

To the extent this Contract pertains to Deliverables which may be reimbursable under the
Medicaid or Medicare Programs. Contractor shall retain and make available upon request, for a
period of four years after ?rmishing services pursuant to this Agreement, the contract, 
documents and records which are necessary to certify the nature and extent of the costs of such
services if requested by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller General
of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives. If Contractor carries out any
of its duties under the Agreement through a subcontract with a related organization involving a
value of cost of $10,000.00 or more over a 12 month period, Contractor will cause such
subcontract to contain. a clause to the effect that, until the expiration of four years after the
furnishing of any service pursuant to said subcontract, the related organization will make
available upon request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller
General of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives, copies of said
subcontract and any books, documents, records and other data of said related organization that

are necessary to certify the nature and extent of such costs. This paragraph relating ?3 the
retention and production of documents is included because of possible application of Section
1861(v)(l)(l) of the Social Security Act to this Agreement; if this Section should be found to be
inapplicable, then this paragraph shall be deemed inoperative and without force and effect.?

GOVERNING LAW.

This Contract shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of Illinois. The

Contractor irrevocably agrees that, subject to the Coturty?s sole and absolute election to the contrary,

any action or proceeding in any way, marmer or respect arising out of the Contract, or arising ?'om

any dispute or controversy arising in connection with or related to the Contract, shall be litigated

only in courts within the Circuit Court of Cook County in the City of Chicago, County 0f 

State of Illinois, and the Contractor consents and submits to the jurisdiction thereof. In accordance
with these provisions, Contractor waives any right it may have to transfer or change the venue of
any litigation brought against it by the County pursuant to this Contract.

WAIVER

No term or provision of this Contract shall be deemed waived and no breach consented to unless
such waiver or consent shall be in writing and signed by the party claimed to have waived or
consented. The waiver of any such provision shall be strictly limited to the identi?ed provision.

Gc-as ENTIRE 

It is expressly agreed that the provisions set forth in this Contract constitute all the understandings
and agreements between the parties. Any prior agreements, promises, negotiations, or
representations not expressly set forth in this Contract are of no force and effect.

a



28

 'l'q
I .i IA
riaFT

GC-36 FORCE MAJEURE OR UNAVOIDABLE DELAYS

Neither Contractor nor County shall be liable for failing to ful?ll any obligation under this Contract
if such failure is caused by an event beyond such party?s reasonable control which is not caused by
such party's fault or negligence. 'Such events shall be limited to acts of God, acts of war, ?rm,

lightning, floods, epidemics, or riots.
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR N0 THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES

The Contractor and its employees, agents and subcontractors are. for all purposes arising out Of the
Contract, independent contractors and not employees of the County. It is expressly understood and
agreed that neither the Contractor nor Contractor?s employees, agents or subcontractors shall be
entitled to any bene?t to which County employees may be entitled including. but not limited to,
overtime or unemployment compensation, insurance or retirement bene?ts, workers' 
or occupational disease bene?ts or other compensation or leave arrangements.

Nothing contained herein shall be deemed or construed by the parties hereto, or by any third party,
as creating the relationship or principal and agent or of persist-ship or ofjoint venturer or any
relationship between the parties hereto other than that of independent contractors. Nothing herein
shall be construed to confer upon any third parties the status of third party bene?cianr. .

END 015 SECTION

29

