AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System will meet on Friday, June 26,
2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room,
Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Item #1:

Call of the Meeting
Roll Call.

Item #2:

Public Comments

Item #3:

Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board
of Directors of Thursday, June 4, 2009

Item #4:

Report from System Board Chairman Warren L. Batts

Item #5:

Report from the System Chief Executive Officer William Foley

Item #6:

Report from the System Interim Chief Medical Officer John Raba, MD

Item #7:

Committee Reports
Human Resources Committee……………………….………Meeting of 6-12-09

Finance Committee………………….……………………….Meeting of 6-12-09*
* note: the following were approved by the Finance Committee at this
meeting: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended; and various
requests to enter into and/or execute contracts and agreements.
Quality and Patient Safety Committee…………...………….Meeting of 6-17-09*
* note: Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes were
approved by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee at this meeting.
Item #8:

Request to Enter Into and Execute Contract
Requesting authorization to enter into and execute a contract with ACS, for acquisition and
implementation of the Lawson ERP System. The contract amount is $33,991,488.00, for a five
(5) year period.

 AGENDA
Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Friday, June 26, 2009
Page 2

Item #9:

Request to Enter Into and Execute Contract
Requesting authorization to enter into and execute a contract with The Sibery Group, to provide
a full-time Chief Operating Officer for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System. The
contract amount is not to exceed $432,000.00, for a twelve (12) month period.

Item #10:

Request to Enter Into Contract
Requesting authorization to enter into a contract with Bank of America for the Master Lease
Agreement. The contract amount is $30,000,000.00, for a period not to exceed seven (7) years.

Item #11:

Request to Enter Into and Execute Contract
Requesting authorization to enter into and execute a contract with Geetha Cattamanchi, MD, in
the amount of $450,000.00, from October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2011. This contract is
for the provision of neonatology resuscitation services on behalf of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System at Roseland Hospital.

Item #12:

Real Estate Matter
Transmitting a request for approval of a Second Amendment to Lease between Chicago Title
Land Trust Company under Trust #10328 and Michael Adams and Armando Gonzales,
Beneficiary(s) as (Landlord) and the County of Cook, as (Tenant), for premises known as the
Cicero Health Center, located at 5912 W. Cermak Road, in Cicero, Illinois, for a value greater
than $100,000.00.
These premises are currently occupied by the Ambulatory & Community Health Network and
the Cook County Department of Public Health.

Item #13:

Transmitting a communication from Cook County Board President Todd H. Stroger, requesting
approval of Mr. William T. Foley’s appointment to the CORE Foundation, for a term to begin
immediately and expire December 31, 2010.

Item #14:

Transmitting a communication from Cook County Board President Todd H. Stroger, requesting
approval of the appointment of Mr. William P. Tuggle as a non-voting ex-officio Director of the
CORE Foundation, for a term to begin immediately and expire December 31, 2011.

Item #15:

Transmitting a communication from Cook County Board President Todd H. Stroger, requesting
approval of Ms. Lucy Robles-Aquino’s appointment to the CORE Foundation, for a term to
begin immediately and expire December 31, 2011.

Item #16:

Report from CCHHS Ad Hoc Working Group on Medical School Relationships

 AGENDA
Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Friday, June 26, 2009
Page 3
Item #17:

Update from Ad Hoc Strategic Planning Committee

Item #18:

Report on negotiations with the U.S. Department of Justice regarding the Cook County
Department of Corrections and Cermak Health Services
Presented by Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State’s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions
Bureau, Office of the State’s Attorney
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception
to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), which states: “litigation, when an action
against, affecting or on behalf of the particular public body has been filed and is pending before
a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes
of the closed meeting.”

Item #19:

Discussion of Litigation Matters
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception
to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), which states: “litigation, when an action
against, affecting or on behalf of the particular public body has been filed and is pending before
a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes
of the closed meeting.”

Item #20:

Discussion of Labor and Employment Matter
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception
to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), which states: “collective negotiating matters
between the public body and its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning
salary schedules for one or more classes of employees.”

Item #21:

Adjournment
Motion to adjourn.
*****

 