Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

APRIL 24, 2009

ATTENDANCE

Chairman Warren L. Batts and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; David Carvalho; Benn Greenspan,
MPH, Sister Sheila Lyne, Luis Mu?oz, MD, and Andrea Zopp (7)

Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell, MD, Quin R. Golden; and
Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM (4)

Marcel Bright Acting Director of Public Affairs, Cook County Health and Hospitals System;
Johnny Brown Chief Operating Of?cer, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County; Pitt
Calkin Interim Chief Financial Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Matthew
B. DeLeon Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Jeff McCutchan 
Supervisor, Transactions and Health Law Division, Of?ce of the State's Attorney; Elizabeth
Reidy Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; David R. Small 
Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the .Cook County Health and HoSpitals System met pursuant to notice on Friday,
April 24, 2009 at the hour of 7:30 AM. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor
conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Matthew B. Deleon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of members and
it was determined that a quorum was present.

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS

Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered Speakers.

The Secretary responded that there were none.

 

APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH
AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THURSDAY APRIL 9. 2009

 

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Thursday, April 9, 2009. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
APRIL 24, 2009

Page 2

REPORT FROM SYSTEM BOARD CHAIRMAN WARREN L. BATTS
Chairman Batts reported on the following subjects:

Presentation on CORE Center

Chairman Batts stated that Dr. Robert Weinstein, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE
Center of Cook County, would present a video on the CORE Center at a future meeting of the Board.

Meeting with Cook County Board President Todd H. Stroger

Chairman Batts stated that he and David Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, met with President Stroger on the following issues: focus on the new money coming to the
System; the request to unionize the physician staff at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County; and the
System?s capital needs, in light of the upcoming Cook County Board Finance Committee meeting scheduled for
May 6th.

The Board the issues. It was determined that the Finance Committee should work on a strategy with
regard to the System?s capital needs.

Mr. Small added that there have been discussions relating to a possible roll-back of the sales tax increase; the
Board discussed the potential impact to the System.

Ongoing re view ofpoiicies

Chairman Batts stated that the subsets of Directors working on the review of policies need to continue their
progress in order for the recommendations to be brought to the Board for consideration.

 

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM INTERIM
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER DAVID R. SMALL

Mr. Small reported on the following subjects (Attachment 

Capital Budget Review Status
information Technology Update
Benchmarking Project

Media and Public Relations Update

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
APRIL 24, 2009

Page 3

COMMITTEE REPORT

Finance Committee Meeting of 4-16-09*
note: the following were approved by the Finance Committee at this
meeting: contracts and procurement approvals, as amended; and an
agreement for Medicare Graduate Medical Education Review.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Finance Committee
for the meeting of April 16, 2009. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

DISCUSS AND APPROVE REE QUEST TO ENTER INTO AND EXECUTE CONTRACT

WITH QUICK. LEONARD. KIEFFER. INTERNATIONAL. INC.
FOR EXECUTIVE SEARCH FIRM SERVICES
(Attachment 

Director GreenSpan, seconded by Director Muiioz, moved to approve the request to enter into and
execute a contract with Quick, Leonard, Kieffer, International, Inc. for executive search firm services.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

DISCUSS AND APPROVE REE QUEST TO ENTER INTO AND EXECUTE CONTRACT

WITH DAVID GOMEZ 8; ASSOCIATES
FOR EXECUTIVE SEARCH FIRM SERVICES
(Attachment 

Director GreenSpan, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to approve the request to enter into and
execute a contract with David Gomez 8: Associates for executive search firm services. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

DISCUSS AND APPROVE REQUEST TO EXECUTE CONTRACT

INTEGRATED CLINICAL SOLUTIONS
FOR STRATEGIC PLANNING AND CONSULTING SERVICES
(Attachment 

The request to enter into a contract with Integrated Clinical Solutions for strategic planning and consulting
services was approved by the Finance Committee on April 3, 2009, and was subsequently approved by the
System Board on April 9, 2009.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the request to execute the contract with
Integrated Clinical Solutions for strategic planning and consulting services. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
APRIL 24, 2009

Page 4

REPORT FROM AD HOC WORKING GROUP
ON MEDICAL SCHOOL RELATIONSHIPS

Director Lyne presented a report on the efforts made by the working group on medical school relationships.

The Board reviewed and discussed the information.

 

UPDATE FROM AD HOC STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE
Director Greenspan provided an update on strategic planning efforts.

The Board discussed the upcoming strategic planning retreat planned for Saturday, May They discussed
possible locations and subject matter for the retreat, which will be facilitated by Integrated Clinical Solutions.

 

UPDATE AND DISCUSSION ON COLLECTIVE BARGAINING

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to recess the regular session and convene into closed
session, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 et seq., which
permits closed meetings for consideration of ?collective negotiating matters between the public body and
its employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees.? THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into regular
session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

ADJOURNMENT

Director GreenSpan, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hespitals System

Warren Batts, Chairman 

Attest:

 
   

atthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

Cook County Health and Hoopitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
April 24, 2009

ATTACHMENT #1

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board Meeting of April 24, 2009
Report of the Interim Chief Executive Officer

*Capital Budget Review Status

All previously approved Capital Equipment requests for Fiscal Years 2007-2009
are being rte-reviewed by the County Board (on a line item basis) May 68*.
requests will be reviewed beginning at on lugs? 6th. Final
approval decisions will not be made until all departments and elected of?cials?
of?ces have gone before the County Board for review.

We are required to submit a ?new? complete list (along with all of the required
backup and justi?cation documentation) to the County Budget Of?ce by 
April 24th. The County Budget Ol?ce will put together the entire set of materials
for the County Board and distribute on April for review in advance of the
scheduled meetings.

What we have for you today is a summary of the total list we are resubmitting this
afternoon. The list of previously approved and not purchased capital equipment
is:

$3,796,668 (FY07)
$13,701,162. (FY03)
357 599 327 (FY09)

Total $80, 097,157

Meetings next week are scheduled internally to continue the review and updating
of these requests, setting priorities, and preparing our presentation for the May 6?11
meeting with the County Board.

Final detail lists with backup information will be forwarded to the Directors in
advance of that May meeting date. .

*Qnick Information Technology Update

Folly-one (41} projects are currently underway, and other than four (4) which are
pending approval and ?nding for equipment, all others are on target. A sampling
of the types of projects in progress is;

I Multiple visit processing for registration and charge capture
on line discharge prescription writing which will go live for
all inpatient teams on May 1St

I Ambulatory Surgery charge capture and validation which is in ?nal
production

Our C10 will give a ?ll] update at the next scheduled quarterly update (May 22nd).

*Benchmarking Proiect

Full data gathering at the departmental level across the System begins next week
and it is expected that the ?rst major outliers will be identi?ed very quickly.
Position adjustment plans will begin to be brought forward to the HR Committee
in June. Approximately 180 vacant positions have been identi?ed for elimination
valued at almost in annual salary for the cmrent ?scal year.

*Media and Public Relations update

Several press releases have occurred since the last Board meeting (CCI-II-IS
Procurement Code adoption and the new Intergovernmental Transfer Agreement);

copies distributed.

There have been a number of events and other positive news stories (information
from Marcel Bright distributed) since the last Board meeting.

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
. 1'17.- NEWIREPLACEMENT CAPITAL EQUIPMENT PROGRAM
FY 2007' - FY 2009

FY 2007 FY 2003 TOTAL
APPROVED APPROVED FY 2009 NEW

DEPARTMENT

240
690
591
393
694
895
897
898

564

CERMAK HEALTH SERVICES

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF HEALTH ADMINISTRATOR
PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY-
AMBULATORYICOMMUNITY HEALTH NTWK

RUTH M. ROTHSTEIN CORE CENTER

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

JOHN H. STROGER. JR. HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
OAK FOREST HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY

TB SANITARIUM DISTRICT

TOTAL DEPARTMENT CAPITAL

NOT PURCHASED

7.649

0

293.400
8T.619

0

0
2.600.000
606.000

0

3396.663 6

NOT PURCHASED

1.166.061
1.846.240
3.6?1 .861
0

0

0
11.300.000
400.000

95.000

18.?01 .162 9

REQUEST

1.272.446
19.779.045
3.215.535
344.500

0

340.544
29.639.294
2.60?.963

0

. 57,599.32? 

REQUEST

2,488,156
21 ,825285
?.380.796
432.119

0

340,544
43.939294
3.815.963
95.000

90,097.15?

04:23:2009 FinancelBudget

#5
NEWS RELEASE 

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Todd H. Stroger Warren Batts David Small Marcel Bright

 

President, Cook County Chairman. Board of Directors Interim CEO . Director of Public Affairs
Board of Commissioners 
For Immediate Release: April 16, 2009 Contact: Public Affairs (312) 864-5508

New Procurement Policy for Health System
Will Meet Mandate

CHICAGO The new procurement policy approved by the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System Board of Directors will move the health system one step closer to acquiring
the tools necessary to improve operations and the delivery of services mandated by the
Cook County Board of Commissioners when it created the independent board, according to

System of?cials.

The measure, passed at the April 9, 2009 meeting of the System Board of Directors, will
create a centralized purchasing system for all the System healthcare af?liates.

it also includes several provisions that will modernize the procurement procedures currently
used by the System's health facilities and set ethical standards that are designed to preserve
the integrity of the System's purchasing process.

One of the key underpinnings of this new procurement policy is that it provides for the
System to be ?good stewards of the public trust by seeking to spend public doilars in the
most ef?cient fashion in support of delivering quality healthcare while remaining fully
committed to the County's policy to promote equal opportunity in the procurement process,?
said David Small, interim Chief Executive Of?cer for the System.

"The System's procurement policy is consistent with the County's Ordinance on Procurement
and Contracting, including the goal that the participation by minority and women owned

businesses be not less than 35% of the total aggregate value of contracts awarded by the
System annually," Small added.

?more?

. Cook County Health Hospitals System

Health System Board Members
Dr. David A. Ansell
Commissioner Jen-y Butler
David N. Carvalhc

Todd H. Stroger . President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

Warren L. Batts - Chairman

 

Cool: County Health Hospital System Quin R. Golden
- Benn Greenspan
Jorge Ramirez - Vice-Chairman Sr. Sheila Lyne
Cook County Health 8.: Hospitals System Dr. Luis R. Munoz
Heather E. O'Donnell
David R. Small FACHE - Interim CEO Andrea L. Zopp

Cook County Health dc Hospitals System

1900 W. Poll: Street, Suite 123
Chicago, IL 60612

April 20, 2009
Dear Commissioners;

On behalf of the Beard of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (?System
Board?), I am pleased to inform you that, at its meeting on April 9, 2009, the System Board adopted the
Procurement Policy for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System 

This action was taken pursuant to the Ordinance Establishing the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System (?Enabling Ordinance?) which expressly provides that the System Board shall have the
authority over all procurement and contracts for the System, and further provides that the System may
exercise this authority, in whole or in part, pursuant to its discretion. The adoption of this policy is a
signi?cant step toward the Enabling Ordinance?s ultimate goal of providing the System Board with the
tools necessary to improve operations in furtherance of the System?s mission of providing quality health
care to it patients in as cost'effective a manner as possible.

While we believe it is important to inform you of this milestone, we take note that certain
representatives of the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises currently doing
business with the County have raised certain concerns regarding purchasing within the System. At the
outset, let me assure you that the System Board is genuinely committed to the County?s policy to
promote equal opportunity in its procurement process, as well as to the County?s goal that Protected
Class Enterprises shall participate in not less than 35 percent of the annual aggregate value of all
contracts awarded by the System. In fact, this commitment is expressly set forth in the System?s new
Procurement Policy.

The recent concerns regarding participation by WWBES appear to arise in response to the fact that the
System has issued a Request for Proposal for the System?s participation in a Group Purchasing
Organization. By way of background, one of the missions- set forth for the System Board in the
Enabling Ordinance is to ensure sound ?scal management of all aspects of the System. In ?ntherance
of that mission, the County Board expressly directed the System Board to engage in joint ventures, or to
participate in alliances, purchasing consortia (such as a GPO), or other cooperative arrangements, with
any public or private entity, consistent with state law. Moreover, the Enabling Ordinance provides that
the System Board shall adopt written rules, regulations and procedures with regard to procurement and
contracting functions, which must be consistent with provisions set forth in the Cook County Code on
Procurement and Contracts. With the adoption of this new Procurement Policy, the System Board is
acting consistent with the County?s Ordinances while taking a major step toward achieving the mission
set for it by the County Board.

- Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
- John H. Stroger. Jr. Hospital of Cook County Oak- Forest Hospital . Provident Hospital Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center .

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community

Thus, in keeping with the powers and responsibilities granted to it by the County Board, the System
Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the System and its patients to utilize a GPO for
certain purchases. We acknowledge that critics of this decision argue that use of a GPO may not result
in the savings anticipated. In this regard, we note that, in the spring of 2008, the County commissioned
the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council to conduct a study comparing the prices paid-
by the County for approximately 1300 items to the prices charged for such items pursuant to leading
GPOs. Upon its conclusion, the MCI-IS study recommended that the County:

?perform due diligence with the national group purchasing organizations and establish a primary
relationship with one In addition, a relationship with a GPO that is pro?cient in custom
contracting will allow the to maintain a degree of ?exibility and vendor choice. Many
metropolitan, county and state facilities have GPO af?liations and most GPOs follow GAAP and
established purchasing processes and have Historically Underutilized Businesses programs in
place.?

The MCHC study concluded that the System could experience substantial savings by participation in a
GPO. In addition, the System has experienced signi?cant savings through its current participation in a
GPO which was initially approved by the County Board. Finally, in this regard, we note that the
System?s 2009 budget, as approved by the County Board, incorporates savings the System anticipated
realizing through appropriate use of GPOs.

Signi?cantly, there appears to be a general misunderstanding on the part of some of the MWBE
representatives who have raised concerns about the WWBE participation and the System?s use of a
GPO. These representatives allege that membership in a GPO precludes participation by WWBEs in
System contracts let pursuant to the GPO. This is not the case. The fact is that, once the System is part
of a GPO, each contract entered into pursuant to that GPO will still be subject to the provisions of the
County's Ordinance on Procurement and Contracts, including the provisions addressing 
participation.

As an initial matter, an MIWBE may apply to be an authorized GPO supplier. The GPOs that have
responded to the System?s RFP each have mechanisms in place to assist WWBES in becoming
suppliers in the GPO. Moreover, the System is committed to assisting the in interfacing with
the GPO in this regard. Again, it is signi?cant to note that, once the System selects a prime vendor
under the GPO, the System will still have to negotiate a contract with that prime vendor. And, that
contract will be subject to the provisions regarding the participation of MIWBE as set forth in the
provisions of the County?s Ordinance addressing participation. This will include addressing
participation by County certi?ed as subcontractors under each contract entered into pursuant
to the GPO, on a case by case basis. -

The WWBE representatives also raise a concern that the contract with the GPO should be let pursuant
to a competitive bid. Because the GPO contract itself is essentially a contract for services and contains
no price term, the System has determined that the contract is not adaptable to competitive bidding. Use
of a Request for Proposal in this instance is contemplated by and in accord with the provisions of the
both the County?s Ordinance on Procurement and Contracting and the System?s Procurement Policy.

Ambulatory 8: Community Health Network Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
- John H. Stroger. Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Hospital - Provident Hospital - Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community

With regard to the use of an RFP, and the allegation of a lack of transparency, we wish to clarify that
the opening of an RFP is treated differently than the Opening of a competitive bid. Both the County?s
Ordinance on Procurement and Contracts and the System?s Procurement Policy provide that RFPs are to
be opened in the presence of one or more witnesses, but do not require that this opening be in public as
with a competitive bid. In fact, the Ordinance prohibits disclosure of the contents of an RFP during the
negotiation process. However, the Ordinance does provide that a record of proposals shall be prepared
and open for public inspection after award of the contract.

We also note that the WWBE representatives allege that, under the new GPO contract, the System ?is
planning to award a three-year annual contract of $165,000,000 worth of product bids to a This
is misleading. What the System anticipates is utilizing the GPO for the purchase of certain supplies on
a case-by?case basis from individual vendors who are participating suppliers in the GPO. The expected
value of these purchases is approximately $90,000,000 annually.

The WWBE representatives also allege that a vendor currently supplying pharmaceuticals to the
System through a contract previously approved by the County Board has not met its MWBE
participation goals as agreed to in its contract. This is not true. This vendor has met the participation
goals as agreed. We do note that based upon the unique nature of a contract for the purchase of
pharmaceuticals, which is subject to stringent manufacture and delivery standards, the County Board
approved a reduced participation goal for this contract. The County?s Ordinance expressly provides that
where it is determined that the established 35 percent participation goal is not appropriate for a speci?c
contract, appropriate goals may be set. In this instance, the County Board approved a goal of 3 percent
participation which the vendor IS satisfying

Through the appropriate use of GPOs, the System Board is demonstrating a balance between its
commitment to being the best stewards of the public trust by the ef?cient use of resources appropriated
and its commitment to the County 3 policy to promote equal opportunity in its procurement process

I hope that this information has been help?il.

truly yours,
W.

David R. Small, FACHE
Interim Chief Executive Of?cer

Cc: Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors
President Todd. H. Stroger
Joseph Fratto, Chief of Staff

- Ambulatory 6: Community Health Network - Cermai-t Health Services - Department of Public Health -
- John H. Stroger. Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Hospital . Provident Hospital - Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community

 

NEWS RELEASE 

Cook County Health and Hospitals system

 

Todd H. Stroger Warren Batts David Small Marcel Bright
President. Cook County Chairman, Board of Directors Interim CEO Acting Director 
Board of Commissioners Public Affairs
For immediate Release: April 23, 2009 Contact: Public Affairs '(312) 86495508

ANNOUNCES INCREASE IN ANTICIPATED
DISPROPORTIONATE SHARE (DSH) FUNDING FOR
HOSPITAL CARE OF THE UNINUSRED

CHICAGO - The Cook County Health Hospitals System is pleased to have
reached an agreement with the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS)
that will previde DisprOportionate Share (DSH) program revenues for State Fiscal
Year 2009 at an estimated $70 million more than in State Fiscal year 2009.

This funding increase is related to the recently approved intergovernmental agreement,
federal and state Medicaid state plan amendment, and state law passed by the General
Assembly in 2008 and is intended to support medical care and services by for
Medicaid and the uninsured. The agreement has been signed by the appropriate County

of?cials and is expected to be signed by the state within days.

These revenues help supplant losses the System endured including the more than $100
million in supplemental Medicaid revenue that was lost in recent years due to federal
regulations phasing down permissible reimbursements to public hospitals and the signi?cant
growth in the uninsured which resulted in hundreds of millions in cost. is the largest
provider of Medicaid and uncompensated care in the State by a large margin. The improved
government funding ?should help the long term viability of the County health System," interim
Chief Executive Of?cer David Small said.

MORE-

Medicaid increase add one

DSH funding is the singular source of federal funding to assist hospitals with the costs of
caring for the uninsured. The Cook County Health and Hospitals System is the top provider
of safety net healthcare services in the State of In December, 2008, the federal
Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (OMS) approved a Medicaid State Plan
Amendment allowing for renewal of the Illinois Hospital Assessment Program bringing

billions in funding to Illinois and hospitals over 5 years beginning July, 2008.

As part of that approval, hospitals were approved by CMS to participate in the
drawing from DSH allocation to help offset costs of caring for the uninsured. For
more than a year, management has worked intensively in partnership with HFS to
seek means to remediate the Medicaid losses incurred by the System over recent years.
These DSH monies help do so. As has been true for more than ?fteen years, Cook County
remains a net contributor to the State of Medicaid program, adding no net costs to the

State of Medicaid program.

"On behalf of the staff and the residents served by we want to express our gratitude
to State Legislative leadership for enacting the enabling legislation in support of the Hospital
Assessment and Disproportionate Share Medicaid State Plan Amendments. We thank also
Director Maram, HFS staff, the Of?ce of the President of the Cook County Board, the Board
of Commissioners, and CMS for their collaboration over many months in seeking means to

assist the ?nancing of medical care to' those most in need?, Small added.

Finally, thanks the Obama Administration and the Illinois Congressional delegation,
with Special gratitude to Senator Durbin, for their attention in the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act to Medicaid ?nancing, raising state DSH allotments, and other funding
streams to improve healthcare delivery and access for those most in need in this time of

extraordinary economic crisis.



Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Board of Directors
April 24, 2009

ATTACIHVIENT #2

April 24, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda Item #7

Contract Synopsis

Vendor: Quick Leonard Kieffer International

Following evaluation of responses to an issued Request for Proposals, Quick Leonard
Kie?'er International (QLK) was one of the Executive Search Firms chosen and
recommended to (and approved by) the Board.

QLK will be retained under a two year contract (to commence upon approval of the
CCI-IHS Board) to assist in the recruitment of quali?ed candidates for specific key andfor
hard to ?ll positions that the Chief Executive Of?cer might determine (on an individual
case basis) as appropriate for search assignment placement with QLK.

A ?xed professional fee of 25% of the value of the total ?rst year?s cash compensation
(base, any sign-on bonus, any ?rst year performance bonus) has been negotiated for each
search assignment that might be given to QLK. This fee represents a discount ??om the
usual and customary fee of 33% by this Vendor.

The estimated fee will be paid in incremental steps (U3 upon assignment of a search
project, 1f3 due 45 days after initiation of search assignment, lf3 due at 90 days after
initiation of search assignment) with ?nal billing incorporating any necessary
adjustments (based upon actual agreed upon compensation for the candidate selected) at

the conclusion of the search assignment.

Direct expenses in conjunction with a particular search assignment such as candidate
interview expenses will be billed during the search project.

The contract complies with all necessary Cook County requirements, has been reviewed
and approved by the States Attorney?s Of?ce, and reviewed by the County Purchasing

Agent?s Of?ce and County Contract Compliance.

Funds for this contract are included in the FY 2009 Budget within budget unit 390.

 

APPROVED
APR 242009 I - DEAF 

 

4
BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM PART I

 

FOR SERVICE BETWEEN
THE COUNTY OF COOKICOOK HEALTH AND HOSPITALS
SYSTEMAND 
Quick Lennard Kieffer International, Inc.

This (30th is made and entered into by and between the County of Cook, Illinois, a body
politic and corporate, (?Gamay?) tiuough its Cook County Health and Hospitals 
(?System?), and Quick Imnard Kiet?t?er International, Inc. ?d
with its principal place of business at 555 West Jackson Blvd? 2 

Chicago, IL 60661. .
WHEREAS, the System makes health care services available to persons who reside in
Cook County, regardless of their ability to pay, including the provision of health care to

the indigent in a pro?cient and compassionate marmer, and performs this function through the
System which, through its health care delivery system, provides ambulatory and hOSplt?l health

services; and, 

WHEREAS. the System requires the following services: Search ?rm services to ?nd and
recruit candidates for various high level positions for the Health System (?Services") and

111E Contractor is Willing and able to supply the Services on the terms and
conditions provided and in consideration for the fees set forth herein; and;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual undertakings herein
set forth, the parties agree as follows: .

1. SCOPE QF WORK
The Contractor agrees to perform the Services that are described in Exhibit A. W313i-



This Conu'act shall commence on the date for which the Cook County Health and Hospitals
syStem authorizes execution of the Contract. Upon the date authorized by the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, the Contractor shall commence the provision of Services for a term
of twenty four (24) months. This Conn-act may be extended upon the mutual statement 01?
Contractor and the Cook Cormty Health and Hospitals System Board (?System Board").

COWENSATIDN AND PAYNIENT

Compensation and Payment shall be made as set forth in Exhibit B, W-

IV. GENERAL CONDITIONS 

This Contract incorporates and is subject to the provisions attached hereto as Part II. 

Conditions Sgppiy Service Sole Source.

DRAFT

V. 
The Contract incomorates the following Exhibits attached hereto:

Exhibit A, imam?ark: and
Exhibit B. Meadow-

VI. ORDER OF 

 

In the event that there' Is a con?ict between or among any of the teens and conditions of any of
the documents described below gwhieh are collec?veiy referred to herein as the ?Contiaet??, the
order to be used' in interpreting the documents, from highest to lowest in priority
and precedence, shall be as follows:

(1) Part Contract;

(2) Part II. General Conditions;

(3) Exhibit A, Meet of Wog; and

(4) Exhibit 13. Mm

(5) Cook County Certi?cation and Execution Forms.

END OF PART I

 

DRAFT

EXHIBIT A

BC PE W0
I. EXECUTIVE 

Tire Cook County Health and Hospitals System is in need of extents] expertise in the
area of executive recnritment to assist with the niecessful ?lling of senior and other hard to
recruit positions across the System over the cotrrse of the next twenty-four (24} month period.
Quick Leonard Kieffer (QLK) is one of the country?s leading boutique executive search ?rms
specializing in the heallhcare industry. consisting of a group of experienced executive search
considtants, committed to creating _a niche ?rm that focuses on quality execution for a select
number of clients. QLK is located in Chicago and brings a wealth of experience assiS?nB
hospitals of all sizes. health systems, and academic medical centers tin-oughout the United States.

It. sensuous:

An overview of the scope of work to be performed by QLK C?Contractor? deliverables and
anticipated project schedule follows; - 

At the start of the search, an outline is created detailing deliverables, and dates for those
deliver-ables. in addition, calls regarding the progress of the search are scheduled at 1'33"?
intervals between the consultant and applicable client parties during the course of the
engagement. These calls are a chance for our clients to get feedback on the stems of the Witch:


One of the first steps in the process is to develop a position speci?cation for your review and

approval. This validates that we heard what quali?es are essential in your new leader. It- also

ensures that we share your understanding of the assignment as we begin to network for

prospective candidates. Through a collaborative process, we create a blueprint of the ?ideal?
'eandidate.

This speci?cation establishes precise short-term and longeenn objectives for the incoming
exeoutive. The document we produce together is not so much ajob description as a statement of
the goals and issues that will face the new person. Each QLK job speci?cation includes a
?drailengea? section to give candidates full appreciation of your situation. The document does, of
course. also articulate the professional experiences and the personal characteristics requtrcd to
meetthose?halleages. 

We ?nd this process helps to build a consensus within your organization about where it is going
and what is ctrpected of the successful placement. We are most c?'ecrive when we can make
recommendations and worlt with you to clarity your objectives and specifications.

We pride ourselves on being good industry strategists. We are able to think ?outside of the box?
and help you consider new and often unknown alternatives to meet your 
Develnpiog this with you is critical because it de?nes the directi?? f0? lh? enttre

search process.

 DRAFT

RESEARCH
We collect-as much written information about your organization as possible, as it helps us
understand your organization and culture. At the same time, it helps us to acctuately esplatn the
opportunity to interested parties. 
Through careful research, we determine which organizations are likely to have the executives
who can be exceptional leaders for you. Once we identify those then wast
those types of individuals. 

Also, we conduct cidensive telephone networking, drawing upon our contacts around thecouulry,
including our own proprietary database ofuiore than 50.000 potential candidates.

Our objective is to cast as wide ofa not as pom'bic to assemble a deep and diverse candidate
pool. Our networking always includes a concerted effort to reach interested and quali?ed
candidates. We strive to pmsent ESlaie ofcandidates that will reprise-t a variety of backgrounds

and experiences. 
PROSPECT 

Many of the candidates we reach out to, we already know. They are individuals we baseline?
for along time and whose careers we have followed. We know who has succeeded, and in what
type of environment We know who is ready fora greaterchallenge and who is not.

Additionally, through caro?rl research. we also determine which organizations are lilfcb?to have
the executives who can be exceptional leaders for you. Once we identify those Ofg??l?ll?nsi we

then target those types of individuals.

Also, we conduct extensive telephone networking, drawing upon our contacts around the country,
including our owo proprietary database of more than 30,000 potential candidates.

Peer recognition is also a power?il recommendation. If the same name is referred to us multiple
Ema. that is a clear signal.- Former exemlives of organisations are valuable contacts, as well.
They know who is open or closed to a possible opportunity and who are ?capped? at their current

level.

Our objective is to cast as wide ofa net as posnble to assemble a deep and diverse candidate
pool. Our networkingaiways includes a concerted effort to reach interested and quali?ed
candidates. We share your position speci?cation with these candidates, andjn turn. gather
information regarding their quali?cations and level of interest.

?16 Milli? We target receivephone calls ?-cm search ?rms every neck. The name Quill?
Leonard Kie?'er, well loicwn in our industry, gets our calls maimed. To get than attention and
interest, however, takes a Special kind of insight and persuasion.

It is not uncommon to have internal candidates in some searches. These individuals undergo the
same screening and assessment process as oxtenral candidates, but we appreciate the delicate
nature of their situation and work with them accordingly.

DRAFT

To avoid any con?rsion in the marketplace, we ask that all activity regrrding your search he
directed through us. We also request that clients refer to us any candidates ahead)" k119i? ?0
them or who may present themselves to them directly. This enables us to give you an objective
evaluation of all candidates and, therefore, the critical sense of comparison you truly need in your
decision-melting.

After we have sourced, contacted, developed and interviewed litter-cued individuals. we fennulatc
a slate of the best candidates for the position to be ?lled. "these are presented to the Search
Committee in a hook. containing a written pro?le of each candidate along with hislher resume or
CV. This book is mailed as requested to each Search Committee Member prior to the book
review meeting. -

At the book review, each candidate included in the hook is discussed by the Search Comma:
and QLK consultants). Atthis time the Search Committee selects candidatesto be intendeived.

PROSPECT Evawanott

Before committing to a facade-face interview, we assess motivation and make ajudgment as to a
candidate's and wealotcsses before we share with them con?dential information about
you. We pride ourselves on being good stewards ofonr clients' resumes.

No matter how impressive a candidate's resume, the only true way to get a feel for his or her
individual character is the personal interview. Only tlta most quali?ed are interviewed. The
interviews are designed to determine ifthe candidate has the quali?es thatyou need, including the
skills, vision, culturalivalues and con?dence to meet the demands required. A written
evaluation is prepared detailing this infonnation including a complete personal and salary history.

Our in-iretson inter-victim are biographical in nature. We trace a person's career, learning about
their aceomplislnnents in each successive role, challenges undertaken. milestones achieved.
mistakes made alongthe way, and lessons teamed.

?1?5 goal of these evaluations is to make that can he used in greater discossion in
client interviews and subsequent re?nances.

We look for the ?t between what the candidate has encountered in the past and the challenges of
the role under consideration. We unit to identify the patterns in a candidate's career that have led
him or her to particulartypes of challenges and success at certain tasks or roles.

We knowthat a leader who excels in one organization may not necessarily

Thrive in another. So, we make sure that we present not only those candidates who have the
expertise and experience you require, but also those who are compatible with the unique character
of your organization. This understanding makes all the di??erence in the outcome of your search.

Finding the ?f is the most di?icult part of the search. Identi?dng those individuals who look

. good on paper is one thing, but we have the rare ability to match the intangibles as well. That is
why we pay special attention to detenniniug'a ?t for the client's culture, values. and mission.
Equally important is the coupling of a candidate with the politics ofthe organization.

While ali'soarcit ?rms are deluged with people who are in active marches, our role is to deliver
the right executives because of their suitability, and not just their-availability. -

DRAFT

Most of our candidates are employed and quite success?rl in their clot-ant positions. Thus, 0'1
behalf of our clients, we take great effort to protect the con?dentiality of their interest in your
situation. We also take particular care to keep candidates advised of their status, and to handle
rejected candidates with dignity and consideration. After completion of these steps, and only
then, do we recommend aslate ofsemi-?naiists for the client to invite for intervie . 



Round 1 and 2 interviews are titcilitatcd by QLK. The times and locations speci?ed by Cook
County Health and Hospitals System are coordinated with the candidates' by our stali' in Chicago.
We arrange all the candidates travel and accommodation and act as observers during the -
interviews (unless speci?ed otherwise).

We provide sample. suggested questions tailored to the speci?c search to help the Search

Committee elicit information that will help them to dimern the candidates past experience and

capability. 

Our consultants are always available and regular update calls will be scheduled throughout the
process. Search Committee Members will always be well informed and up to date on all

information regarding candidates and the search process.

REFERENCING ?6 BAWGROIMD INVESHGATIONS

Early in the process, we learn as much as possible about the candidates without compromising
?1351' Present situation. Con?dential checks are made on education credentials, public doctuneut
searches, etc. We talk to people we know, and trust us, before we make any assessment as l0
suitability for your situation. 

Through our deep network of contacts we are ensured of in-depth and comprehensive referencing
of all candidates. Before we make any expenditure to meet a candidate, we have quietly
conducted preliminary referencing with peeple who know them the best.

Because most of the exwutivcs we recommend for your position are employed, clients must
respect this fact and wotlt to minimize exposure of candidates throughout the march proms.
This means that no candidate name or presentation material can be shared With anyone 0513' than
those directly involved in the search process. I

Once you have selected one or two ?final" candidates, we conduct ?llayerod" reference checks
1With past and current employers. information is provided to you, and you are always invited to
Incite yourown calls.

We believe references arejust as important as a candidate?s perfonnance in a series of interviews.
We do not solicit letters of reference. instead, we speak directly with each candidate?s bosses,
peers, competitors and subordinates over the course oftheir' career. asking questions and eliciting
contractile on ?remen that we have previously explored with the candidate. We document otu'
thorough reference material in a transcript style rcport and typically provide detailed cornurenl?l'lr
on each ?nalist.

Our service is not just a set of candidates, but also a discussion of market availability,
comparative benchmarking, and a comfort knowing that we have helped you ?nd the be?
exetnnive to meet your needs and goals. We learn what you mt, but wealso learn whattlre best
candidates want.

 

DRAFT

In addition to reference checks, each candidate that is presented has an educational check
completed to verity his or her educational background. Final candidates are extettmvely
referenced and criminal background checks are completed.

A specmc addenda to this main contract will he issued for each individual search project that is
assigned and accepted to the Contractor, setting out any position speci?c terms, conditions, and
schedule for that search. There is no limit under this main connect onjhe number of individual
scotch addeuda that might be executed during the term of the contract. The Contractor may
decline a search project if the feels that it does not have the expertise to successfully
complete the particular assigmuent.

CONTACT MFORMAHON

The principal contact for the will be the Chief Executive O?icer. or his designee, with
the System of?ces being located at 1900 West Polk Street, Suite 220, Chicago. IL, 60612.

The principal contact for the Contractor will be Roger Quick1 President Chief Executive
Of?cer, with Corporate Headquarters located at 555 Wee Jackson Blvd, 2??1 Floor, Chicane. IL

60661.



PAYMENT TERMS

Each search project that is assigned and accepted will have speci?c terms, conditions, and
schedules, all of which will be covered within separately executed Addenda to this main

contract.

Unless speci?cally addressed within each Addendum, the general professional fee for each
search is on a nun-contingent basis and will not exceed 25% ofthe ?rst year's cash

compensation for the position the Contractor is engaged to assist with. For fee calculation
purposes, cash compensation includes base salary, sign-up, andfor incentive bonus payments for

the ?rst year of employment.

In addition to the professional fees, the Contractor will be reimbursed for expenses related to the
individual search. These include direct out-of?pocket expenses (candidate and consultant travel,
lodging and related expenses) hicurr'ed on behalf of Expenses incurred will be billed
by the Contractm on a basis and will be appropriately supported with receipts, invoices

paid, etc.

Professional Fee billing schedule will be as followsi
113 of the estimated fee will be paid upon execution of any individual search Addenda
US of the estimated fee will be due 45 days after initiation of the engagement
US of the estimated fee will be due 90 days after. initiation of the engagement

Any expenses will be included in the above listed billings. If the professional fee has been hilly
invoiced prior to completion of the assignment, no ?irther professional fees will be billed until
the engagement as been completed, but any month expense billing will continue. .

At the conclusion of the engagement, a ?nal billing, incorporating any adjustments based upon
the ?nal base compensation and estimated bonus for the position ?lled, will be rendered.

If an individual search assignment is canceled before completion, the will be
.reSponsibie only for the professional fees billed to date plus actual expenses.

DRE: FT
Request For Proposal Nu. 

ATTACHMENT E:
COOK COUNTY CERTIFICATIONS AND EXECUTION
FORMS



?aal?an UTILIZAIIOH ELLE


WEBB T0 PM

As 

JURHIT snurza

EETITIOH son nanncionVHaxvan or
angina: GOILS

mm 

'Iuconnunamzau. caurnxaucz.


sums paopnxambn, sxannrunn BABE
sxauazunn pace
couponamxnn. sxaunmunz ra?s
accznaa?ca. coax caunf!

10

DRAFT

Ens-132

ans?3f:

ans?sis

505?- 1?13

nus-14115

nus?1:117I15
sna-zs/zoial
ans-22f23f14

HIS-25

3.133

 

DEAF

mm mum 
. on 1

BIBDERJPROPOSBR STATE-S that all time included in thin Plan are
certified by at one of the entities listed in the Ganer'al

Conditions.
I- mountainous-carve miner orator: [check the appropriate line}

Bidderfi'ropoaer is a certified'MBE or HBE firm. [It so, attach copy
or appropriate Letter of Certification.)

Eiddar?ropoaer ia a Joint Ventura and one or more Joint Venture
partners are certified or Hate. {If no, attach copies of
Letters of Certification, a copy of Joint Venture Agreement clearly
describing the role o! the HEEIHEE fix-min} and its in the Joint
Ventura and a completed Joint Venture affidavit - available from-the
office of Contract Cormlianced

Bidder/Promo: is not a certified HEB or HEB firm: not a Joint
Venture with KEEN-THE partners, but will utilize 24:93 and REP. time
either directly or indirectly in the work of the Contract. {It so,
complete Section: II and .

21. Direct Participation of mm rim
'will perform as includathe

following: 
1. Home of Harman: fV/?

Address 

e?mail:

 

Contact Person: Phone:
Dollar Amount Participation: 5
Percent Amount of Participation:
*Letter of Intent attached? l'ea Ho -

 

 

2. Home of HBEHIBE:
Address:

 

 

h-mail:

 

Contact Person: Phone:

Dollar Amount Participation: 8
Percent Amount of harticipation:
*Lettor of Intent attached? for Ho

 

Attach. additional sheets as needed.

All Lat-tore o: Intent Ind latter: of Certification not ?humid. with
hidlproponl anath- a'ahuittod so to roo?'?hy the contract
tutor within (3) basin-ac day: after hid lop-nine

or proposal the data.

Red-ad: 
EDS-1
3. 13B

11

 

Indimt articulation of Elfin! lit"

NOTE: this aoetion need not be coapleted if the HBEIHBE goals ham: been not:
through the Direct Participation. If the KEEPER goals have not been met
through Direct Participation. shell demonstrate that the
proposed mamas Direct participation represents the maxim achievable under
the circmaatenoea. only after such a demonstration will indirect participation

he considered.
Hangman will perform an include th?

following:
i. Home of HBEIWBE: 


Address 

 

e-naii 

 

Contact Person: Phone:

Boiler Amount of indirect: Participation 3
Percent Amount oi indirect Participation:
*Letter of Intent attached? tea Ho

2. Home of 133MB:

Address 

 

 

o-maii:

 

Contact Peraon: Phone:
Dollar Amount of indirect Participation 
Percent Amount of indirect Participation:

a

?Lotter of Intent attached? tea Ho

Attach additional shoot: unneeded.

A11 latter: of Int-mt and new: of Ctrt?iu?m 2L1: sue-item: with
the Contract

biofproponi out be emitted no to anor- rmipt by
tutor within three Jae-inn: any. alter bid opening

orpropoui due date.

mind: 3?an
?5'2 3.13::

 

1'2

. I I 



 

 

{section 2)
EROH HEB 1?0 PERFUME HS semen-name SUPPLIER MEIER CONSULTANT
Contract title I. Number: 14'
{i l?
Frown:
[use in} 

 

To: and the county of Cook

 

tmdh??opoaer ?rm:

The undersigned, 1: prepared to provide the {allowing services. supplies and
ptojact in connection with the above named contract:

Each service performed and for: item auppliad H111 be detailed under Baacciption
of Sen-iceISupply and Project with all ee?iceafiteoo totaled under FeeICoat to
equal the full dollar amount of the Letter of Intent. 1.1.1 antic-a pat-tom
cod/or We: Jill-1:71? not b- d-im?r mild?t? thi- lplorii'lo Codi: Gamay
entrant and anal: not: include any sectional/mun related to any othlr
mt amount.

Deactietion of SnrviceiSupgz?Lojcct FeelCoat

 

 

 

 

Total: 5

enema none: that. (1111! Letter of Intent 1:111 Boole I binding
subcontract: Mt conditioned upon tho receipt of a lion-d
contract froa the County or once. The End-reigned notice do aloe certify that

did not a?i: their lino-total to thin doom-ant until all one: under

they
Deletiption of Mummy and; Pacino-t oomlotod. -
Upon Penalty of perjury, I 

 

[print none)

 

{title} and duly authorized representative

the
attire; that

of the
the foregoing intonation in true and correct and the services, auppliea. audio:

 

 

project indicated above will. be aupplieafperformed for the oboe-?? in?catod total

dollar amount uhich the above indicated total

percentage 1: for: the contract amount 5

 



 


{Datei

 

i'signature of affiant]

Subscribed and sworn to hetero me this day of 

 

 

- (Notary: Signature] watery Seal]

Ravi-Id: lidi??
EDS-3
3. 1.39

13

14
DEPAFT



Mg, [print name}

1'
{title} and duly authorired
{Bidder Proposal: ?rm}

Upon Penalty or perjury,

the
representative of the
affirm that tho foregoing information is true and correct and the services.

lupplioa, audio: project indicated show ba supplio?pirfomcd. for tha-
uhich represents: tha

 

 

above indicated total dollar amount 8
above iodicatod total percentage for the contract amount

3 .

I
{Drtaj

 

i?iqnature of af?ant)
. 200 .

 

Subscribed and sworn to before me this __day of

{?atary' 5 Signature} Mary Seal}

 

luv-ind: MHDE

- 3.133

 
?30more}: comm mt India: on: Phenomenon}

a of. Reduction for Her Participation
I of Reduction for REE Participation

E. FDR HIQEEBT

BidderiPropoaor ehall check each Item applicable to its for a waiver

request. Additioun .. damnation ahaii he cut-iced with thia-
-.. I. .11.. 13.33?? . -.
on to our?? - I 5'

no ale-w- - run?WE} - - re: 0 - hoof
?Tnionce.


lack of eui'?cient qualified andior ?rm-1e capable of providing
the goods or aervicea required by the contract {pl-no explain)

contract make it iupoeeihlo or economically infeasible to divide the
contract to enable the contractor to utilize audio: REES in
accordance with the applicable participation [plea-o ?plain!

. ?(Cc-r 1'

(33 Prints] quoted by potential we: andlor EBB: are above

I: competitive lowela and increase coat of doing and would make
acceptance of such use and/or HEB hid economically impracticable,
taking into consideration the percentage oi total contract price
repreaented by auch'lmz ondior 5153 bid (pl-an explain}

the apecificatione and necessary requirements tor performing the

there 'Ire other relevant Iacteea maidng it impossible or
econmifolly infeasible" to utilire HEP. audio: HBE firm: {plan
11.1.11

.KP

7? 71? doc .7113 Ana/17713;;

54:? pork:
inch/V06 adv wot-?14 7'5

771" 

Bevin-d: 
EDS-5
3.138

15

C. coon was me tangy PARTICIPMIOH

shall check each item applicable to its for a- uaivar
raquoat. addition-11 tin Mutation shall. he Ionittod with thin

 
  

 
 
    

-- -. If an awn - 
mm. Otl?b?n loch .- I - nuhnittod Jar-a -- 

?or central: -. a from. a .-

non-

lj Had: timely written aolicitation to idantifiod HEB: and Hats for:

utilization of good: audio: amicea; and provided HEB: and "533 with a
opportunity to ?View and obtain relevant apaci?cationo. tel-ma
and conditions of the proposal to enable mats and ?ats to propare an
informd :aaponaa to aolicitaticm (pl-an attach}

Follonod up initial aolicitatioa of HEB: and H335 to dotcmina if
firms ara intereatad in doing business {pinn- attach)

audio: trade publication for 11533 and l'BEa for supply of goods and
services {pl-an attach}

(ll Dan the services and asaiatance at the office. of Contract

I: Advertised in a timely manner in ona or acre dain newspaper-5
Compliance Staff {plat-I anal-in}

Engaged 14353 I H333 for indirect participation lpiun mimic)

D. mm mm mm

Attach any othar commutation relativo to Good Faith Efforts in complying
with 533m participation.

 

Mud: 
2 
as 5 3.138

16



I
I
Jul?null
I

mm mm
[norm 4}

THE ARE HRDE PURSURHT TD STAKE AND BOOK

ORDIHIHCEB. IE ID REID THESE CERTIFICATIOHB PRIOR TO
EXECUTION CENTRACT. EKECUTION OF THE SHELL EHEEUTION DE
THESE 3ND SHILL ?159 BDEETIIUTI or COHTRICTOR ILL THE
SIASEHEHTE SET IITEIH THESE IRE TRUE BED CORBEET 
IS HEREBY NOTIFIED TERI TD EXECUTE THESE SHELL
IN DISDDILIPICNTIOH ELIGIBILITY FOR THE AIIHD 0? THIS 0031353?-
COHERIETOR 15 FURSHER NOTIFIED THIS 123333 T?l? 13? OF THE 
CERIIEIGEIIOHS HERE FIISELS HIDE.-THE SHELL 35 SUBJECT TO TBBHIHIYIEH-

menus Juan monies scanner 1'0 ornnoauncatron. Ho patent or bueineea entity shall
be awarded a contract or subcontract. for a period or trio yeara from the date of
conviction or of a. plan or adulation of guilt. civil or criminal if that person

or hueineae entity.

tel Has been convicted of an act committed. within the state of Illinois. of
bribery or attempting to bribe an of?cer or employee or a 'ueit of state.
federal or local government or school diatrict in the State or Illinoie
in that oiticer'a or emloyee'e crucial capacity.

{bl Bee been convicted by federal, state or local government of an act
omitted, or hid-rigging or: attempting to rig hid- ee de?ned in the
Sherman Anti act and Clayton not. not. 15 u.s.c. Section 1 et aeq.

lc] - He: been convicted of. hid-rigging or atteapting to rig hide under the
lane of radical. auto or local comment. 

Hee been convicted of an not counted. by federal. state or local
gourmet of price-rising or attempting to tie: prion as de?ned by the
seer-an Anti-true: not and the clayton net. 15 Ill-8J5. Section 1 et

seq.

(31 Hea- hcen convicted of price?Iixing or attemtinq to fit pricee under the
lure of federal. state or local government.

If) ?ee been convicted of deitau or attempting to defraud any state.
federal. local or a col diatrict :in the State of Illinnie.

In} line made an of guilt of anti: conduct an net forth in
Subsection! ta] through it} above Hhich admission is an utter of record.
Whether or not such person or bueinua entity nee eubjec?l: to prosecution
{or the offence or ottenaes emitted to, 

lb) In presently deterred. suspended. propoaed for deheroent. declared
ineligible or voluntarily excluded from any trenaactiona by any iederal.
atete or local unit of government: 

lies. Hit-bin I thaw?: period preceding the date of this EDS. been
mmicted or a criminal often?. adjudged guilty, or had a civil jodonnt
rendered eqeinet then in connection uith: ctteinin . att?lptm? ?10
obtain. or performigg a public tfederel, etate or coal} trmaction or
contract under a 1: lie treneactiom I violation or central or state
antitruat atetutea: trend: erberrlenent: theft; forgery; bribery:
falsification or destruction of. record.? mating felee atetenente: or .

receiving stolen property; -

_1e presently indicted for or otherwise criminal]. or civilly charged
by a governmental. entity neutral. state or loco with dominion of any
of the attended.

(It) ?ee. within a taro-year period prl?dlnq the date or this cos, had one or
more public traneecticne modern. ?etc or local) terminated for canoe
or default:

Ill ?ee. within a five-year period preceding the dete of this 3135. bun 
convicted, adjudged 1t or found liable in a civil Exceeding, or in
any criminal or civi at on. including action: ccncern_ng environmental

Vi??tions. ioetltuted by the county or by the lederal govern-ht. any
atate, or any other unit or local'qovermnt. 


3.133

3.1

Go

DRAW

In} His entered a plus ot'nolo contenders to charge of bribery. price-
fixing, bid-rigging. or trend. is set forth in (all thig?gh

(11 above

Ill monsters: sneer rm:

{55 ch ?my on whose Ems codification is submitted ha!
not been conv oted. or entered ples of solo contenderc. or ends
on sit-lesion of guilt to any not described in 11}. Section
through In} of. the crown?: Resolutions or the

county of Cook;

the owner. partner of ehsreholder who controls, or
indirectly. twenty percent or nor'e or the business entity
hes not been convicted or entered I piss of. note oontendcto or

made so ednission or guilt to my not described in 10.

Section 1.0-7-1. through he];

it does not employ es en officer, any indivldesl the use on
officer or another business entity et- the ties the letter business
entity cos-sitter! disqualifying not described in chapter 111.
Section 1.0-1.1. is} through 

it does not new en career the contents. directly or
indirectly. twenty percent or more or the business uho use
en owner the, directly or ?directly. controlled twenty peroest
or more or a business entity at the tine the letter
emitted a disqualifying act described in Chapter 10. Section
Ila-7.1. is! through In}.

?mm m. em menu.
I: 55?1255 {es extended by 21.1th let Eli?15D]

some not II
Section sat-ll [Illinois Compiled Statutes. Home 5(33 3-11}.

Neither the Contracting Party nor eny Affiliated Entity is listed on any of the
renewing lists maintained by the attire oz Foreign Assets control of the 5.5.
o: the tenant}: or the Bureau of industry end Security of the 0.3-
D?PIt-osent or Comoros or their successors: the Specially Designated nationals
List.the Denied Persons List. the Unverified List. the Entity List and the

Distorted hint-

 
      

  
 

I .11 5 .
Hes the contracting Petty hso se relationship? with soy Count?
ow officisl in the l: tenths term the dots these Execution Pam- were
rel. pious identity helm the nseetel or such elected ?of?oillo end.
describe such reletionshipts}:

     
        

 

 

 

 

Home: thtionrhip: .
?ue - llelotion?ip:
Home Relationship:

 

 



nuns: Isms toners-1n it is not hereto tron 
o: as res conviction tor the violstion or

can II
State hm prohibiting bid-rigging bid routing.

Wee: -
In with allelic not (Illinois Emilee! Statutes. 3O 
Each-111.

Wm it win would: - one 

until-place on pet the e! Miic net 35-1155.

Ens-s 
3- 138

 

- . . I 7 1?1? 0 . l- -
Gupta: section 10-6.: gravid." that no pars-an 01?
hulinesi entity mu ha mulled. I. contact or to: acous- or amines
um: the county a! cunt 1:th 1c cannula-m: that want: of my tn: {including
m1 ?ute tax} cc 1? mum-tend by thu county of. took.

it in not damn: in tinawnintcx? by the county at anal: {including real
estate tax} uni-n Inch tn: 1: being content-.66 in accurdancc Hith the
pmmdunx establish: by County Ordinance.

 

       

uIpouch who is a my to a. cantata: with can]: Peanut?) shall engage
in mkwtul diacrl?mticn at am]. has-anneal: again? any individual in the
turn at mutation- of employment. credit. public housing. or
pmhicn of Why militias. act-vice.- ox -

it in in communes with these

policies and. it in in Ingram: to 11:11:. by such ponch- a part at it:
mutt-?tun chugltiuna.

WW
Iruincis

In mm with Malia 1:21: 131-121: {Acct-?nd by 3.3.. 3'1-12571
Eon-piled statute, 775 was sic-1051.

 

V1.11: 1a in mum with tho Act

 



    
 

cock Bounty acacia. ordinate-c prcvidnu that 1! prim-try may
conduct: Inn-Inu- operation.- in Northern new, at 1:111 conduct minus during
the lint-tin: of a. minty outta-ct. it in hmhy nquind that the
ccntuctn: than "kc 111 numb? and. sand mm dim: tc ccnduct any such
Minna operating in Earthen: Inland. 1n accommcu with the 
Mac-11:1" to: when mum as defined in nlinoic mun: m: 55-1350. .

 

it in in full can-11mm Hit]: the

uranium 
murmurs at" the Inch-1h ?1111prch for Hertha-n Inhnd. arm: of its

chugcticnc.

EDS-3 .
3. 13?

19

    
   

  

     

     
    

DRAFT

The Pumhuing agent shall. in the pin-hp? n: all mun. amines and
(sonata-nation by mtitiwa naaled bidding. ace-apt the Inn-cat hid purine at lowest
avaluatad hid priua iron a human-Jive tn: local human. prwidud that
the bid dun not attend the lawn: bid print at lowest evaluated hid. prim Irma a
respmwiwn and nun-1m}. Maine-n by late than two percent ml-

       
   

41:: - 

'hncal Huninua' shall nun a. person to transact lat-mint" in thin
State and having a bun fine utahliatnant for tranaanthy huinala located
within Conic minty at which it am actually transacting huainnal on data what:
an? matitiva Inlidtatinn for a public contract is final: adwrtiltd at
mnmed and {lather which ?plays the ujnrity of its regular. ?1111 tine wort
intu- within cook county, including a foreign corporation duly authorized to
transact buainua in this State and. which haa a ban: ride fur
transacting business lacuna. within cool: Gummy at which it. was anus-11y
mil-chins Minn? on the: data when any waitivn nulicitation {or a public
cmtratt ia firat admtiatd or nun-moat! and furthu: which employs :11!
Iajarity of ita regular. full than work force within mot Gumtr-

i-J In bidder at a 'Ilocal auaineaa' aw defiant above?
Izm- Ho:

2.) How many pet-am. an may clpluyad on a inn-tine built by
.

Did tha hi?dariprnpoau have a bun. ride at 
Minus within and: County a: the date this bid. wu martini?

 

It .yas. liar. anch Main-n minim-sen:
WM f4.-


mu bidderfprupnau haw: in?ation: at which it tr
the Many a! Cock? run: an.-

IE yes. list nut-h human

 

 

ts marinas: puma.-

   
 
 

 

 

 

tlttach Additional Shuts if mummy}
How many a! aura-ant auLg?tinn employs:- work at
Mention: within the My of. 

halahn has para-anal knowledge of
the intonation pmvidad above and Hill: migration prnwidad
is correct.

      



 

 

      
  

 

   

. .


minty-Many
pal-nun or entity awndad a umtracthj- mount}! an: the of any

such pot-Ian or entity.

 
    

EDS-10
- 3. 139

20

DRAFT .

'?nntxaet' Iain! my written agreement uhnrehy the county in con-titted to a: does
emnd fund: in emanation uith the agreement at themt. The turn
'DOIlt?f-?t' and in this ordinance Ipeeifially emelnde- mutant. with the

311mg:

Hot-For Pro?t Organisatim {de?ned an hiding
that: may: :tntul launder Section Stile] a: the mitt-.4 state
Internal Revenue Cade and tamgnited undo: the Illinois state
not-inr-profit lull: 

2.) community monk Grants;
President'l lattice of lupinmt mining:
1-: 312:1th iota: utenntive my and
5-3 Dlputnmt 01! mutation but?.

    

 

. .1-1 - it in in cnuplianne with thil
Mime-antique: 
of it- obligations. -

      

1:4 I- 1-: 

 
    

   

   

 

      

'nh-

u. . I .. I
Effective July 1. 1.933 wet-y lpplitlnt tor a cunt. Privilege he in full
unlit-nee with nay mild Support Order before eueh Wind: in entitled! to
met-in or: mu a mint? hivilege. When Delinquent child Sumner-t exists. the
County than not inane or renew any Dainty Privilege. and. twnke any mt?

Privilegn.

?PF-Hunt" Bean-u any perm: tn- hluineen entity. including all manta:
Meta, seeking issuance or a county Privilege or tune]. of en auditing annuity
Privilege: from the canny. rhi- tun than. not ineludn any 1:01:th subdivision
the fedenl or state mun-int. including unit. at Real wt. and not-

int-nmfit ntgmiutinns.



 

Privilegn' nuns my huaine-I linings. including but not limited to
limit: dealern' licenses. plehged goods linens". tawzn litmus. mutt-nut
litmus. and gun linemen ten prnperty lime or leue: penit. including

bill'- not liuited to building mitt. tuning pennant approvals: enmimnnentl'l
??int-er county Inn. and tents-net: unending th- vnlue n: SHAW-DD-

annex" um any pet-nan Dl.? person: the an: or hold a tIth-fiw't
lent or turn percentage of intent: in any hluimn entity snaking a
mi? Privilesm including than lhlxehnlderl, general or linittd partners.
"Id Prineipaln: accept Intern Minna: entity in In individual or
sale proprieturihip. Huh-tintinl Owner tune that individual or sole proprietor.

In this retard. plane provide nine and Mel leenrity o! Substantill
cane: at the main-u entity. nan: at which am an the mention pige-

II the Party in unable to entity tn any n! the ah-nve ntntunentt in this
part. Vanda: certificatinnl. the contracting ?irty mt ?pun: below:

I
It the letters. the uni-d 'Hnne' no reopen-e appear- above. it I111 Willi-?1?

pram-n that the Umtrneting Party certi?td tothe Ihmre 
EDS-11
3.138

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDS-13 3.133

 Il?hk- 
egn?i'r I in 



 

5}

The contracting Party and agrees that:

A. By completing and filing this. the Contracting Ear acknowledges and
agrees. on behalf. of iteelf and the pereosaa or entit es named in this
the. that the nomty may investigate the or some or
all of the persona or entities named in this nos.

3. The certi?cation, dieeloaurea. and aclmowledgnente contained in thin

nos will heeone part or any contract or other agreement between the
Applicant and the county in connection with the Matter. "Mt-1161'
pronute?lent. County assistance. or other county ?otilla. and are
material isduoenenta to the Comty'e mention of any contractor taking
other action with respect to the Hatter. The contracting Party
moor-tends that it must newly with all ordinances. and

regulations on which this Bus is based.

The County's Governmental Ethics and campaign Financing Ordinances.
iopoae certain duties and obligations on persons or entities necking
County eontrecte, work. hmineso. or transactions. For further
information please contact the Director or Ethics at {313603-4304
[69 Haahington St. Suite 3010. Chicago. It: EOEOZI or visit our
Hoh-nite at and go to the Ethics Department link.
The Contracting Party comply iully with the applicable ordinates.

D. If. the county determinea. that any information provided in this no is
false. incomplete or inaccurate, any contract or other agreement in
connection with which it is submitted may he rescinded or be void or
Widahle. and the County may pursue remediea mder the contract
or agreement Iir not rescinded. 13?; or voidahls). at _1au. or in
equity, including terminating the Contracting Party's participation in
the Hatter endfor doclining to allow the nontraetioy Party to
particigte in other transactions with the county. Remedies at: law
for a lee statement of material fact may include incarceration end

an award to the Coimty or treble .

n. It in the? amnty?o policy to hate this dooment available to the Public
on its Internet site and/or upon request. Some or all Of 1:1?
information provided on this one and any attachments to this 3135 nay
he Ilene available to the public on the Internet, in reeponna _to a
Freedom of Information not reorient.r or otherwise. By coon-leting and
signing this EDS, the contracting Party waives and release: in?
peesihle rights or claice which it any have against the Count? in
connection with the public release of. information contained in thil EDS
and also authorizes the County to verify the accuracy of any

intonation submitted in thin EDS.

P. The information provided in this has must he kept current 1n 
event of. chenges.the Contracting .Party smut supplement this Ens up to
the time the norm: taken action on the Hatter. If the hatter a
contract being ed by the Oifice of the Purchasing Agent. the
contracting Party nunt update thia has as the contract require!-

i'he Contracting Party repreaents and werrante that:

G. The Contracting Party has not withhold or renamed any disclosuree as 1
to emc interacts in the Contracting Party. or no to the Hatter: Dr-
information, date or plan an to the intended use or for

?oh the Applicant neehe County Board or other county agency notion.

EDS-14
3- 139

24

 

DRAFT

mm

Mexican}! 0E perjury. that person signing helm: warrants that helm: is

authu zed ta execute this EDS on hehalt of the cuntneting Party and warrant:
a and statements contained in this was are true,

that all carti?catioa
?mate and complete as of the date. furnished to the enmity.

Mug/$5042, imam/2:.
Print or type name of Contracting Party 

I
If?aqa- ?uc?
Printfor name a! person signing

I m7" 67
Print or type. tle at person aligning

Rap

 

 

Hat

.
Signed and sworn to hereto methia day a! 300..

-
Hot?w 1:111:11?: si?ture Rotary 
Ludo

Emineim Expireazj? 3-5;;2095

 

  

EDS-15 
3 .133



[m 

The ?haulage! tutti-pt at I. ?1111 out of. Contact Deanna In: entrant
and?. Addenda: Ila-bark] [Hum unless indicated
hut-l. underlignld union- the {ongoing 31d Prupoul to :11 a! the turns and
asylum or contract Manta. misuse certi?es thut an a! the
{ongoing autumn of the emulator: certi?cntiml um true and contact. 1113
ulnar-iguana Hat-nuts that :11 0! tin hats and ?which lthtaithed by the mitt-signed
11: mum with thin 31d ra-opoagl are true and cut-tact. mun award and mutton at
the Contract. th: unaligned am that mention at this Bid Proposal Ihll'l stud 

the mum-a mutation at thu contract

m. ?r/ir?

DEGREES ms:

 

 

 

mm m: ram/m:

mm:


 

 

Mia}:

 

 

 

Irma-mm. 


 

?coo: mm momma! m:

 

Emu??! IMM: 1

Eta:

 

subscribed and Emu to
hum this dig!

at . ton?.

 

Hy minim emit-ea 

 

Entity mu: limtun Entity Sal].
- In mu: mm: mm ma: 104.1.


Int-r human I: try a?i?wlu lit-tutu. lus mas {6531'
3.138

25



 

HI

I 
j, .

(m ?1

Thu undenignnd tubuledgu nmipt at a lull. at at cur-tract Daemon? {or Militant.
Ember and Mann ?lm unless indicatad
hire}. Th ?:23in like: the inquiry Bid Papa-:1 subject to :11 a: term: and
audition: at the Contact hummus. Thu undenigl? certi?es that :11 of. the
inn-ageing Intent. 0! the Emu-tater Certification: no true and correct- no
untrained mt! thn: 111 at the nets and infer-mum: ?hunted by the Imd?nian?d
In museum with this Bid m1 are and cum. upon: Hull and mum of
th- Oautrm. the malignant 15m" tut. execution at this am Prayer-1 511311 stand as

mdezlignnd'l mmtim a: the emu-act.

 

mamas m:

BUSINESS mm

 

 

mamas 

mm:

 

imam: 

manic-mm:

 

 

 

ulna-mum. 


 

?mo: mm mm:

 

maxim-a 5mm: I

Data:

 




mountain any

of . -
By William wins:

 

lot-:1:- lubuu aim mum Bull
i Ill mm 

np-uung nadir a Inc-ad nun. gravid: th- unk county Mai-trauma
luau human.- I: pm by Inimi- mud Intact-u. In: ?511.

EDS-17 .
3.133

26

27

DENT

Wm

(mm 5}

112. martigntd mindset rennin; of a lull net of Contact noun-mt: in: Wrath
Hub-r and 1mm Rather?) malts: Jndiutad
hart}. months braggingnid mall until-ct. mall at mum md
conditions of. the Dona-ants. mnigntd certi?es that :11 of the
imaging statement! of the out?tter maximum In: true and current. the
Manly-ad Han-ant! that an. of. the not: and informatics admitted by the Wignad
in?ection aid Props-amaze tm anacomct- mandandmtima!
the contract. the undersigned late" that manner: of this Bid than stun! II
the under-imam emanation a: th- manta-ant.

 

 

BUSIHIES m:

 

mm:

 

 

mums mm.- nausea:

a: man:

 


mammal:

 

 

 

?maintain. 


 

"can: coun- MI mm m:

 

Hm: 

nit: I

 

marina and Em to

before. In this db:-

of. - . 
mull-m expires:

 

lobar} mun Elysian Henry Bani
mm 16. aunt! 354.1.

Itinmm??wmuuMnm. ?huntin-
II ?with! by Ilunull can-pun aunt-I. In! nu: 

EDS-13
. 3.133

23

DRAFT

 

1 

1h- Mileage: nedpr. a: a {1111 ?at or contract memento in: contract-
H?har and ?dead: nun-I inhabit! but]. '11"
nukes ch: {meaning Bid Proposal to :11 a! the tat-Ia and conditions
a: tin: contract D?clmenta. ma madusigzud cextifiel tint :11 a: 1:11: 1?:an
lute-Inn? of the certi?cation at true at: correct. 11:: mainland
manta that all or the tat-tn and 11150th ?kitted by than und-ernig??d in
mama with thin Bid hogan: It: trua and. met. Upon mud and made: a! the
mutant. the mid-aimed hare" that mention a! thin Propan: than stand as the

mdmigned'l manila: of the Blatant.
3125111353 m: j,

mm; mm:

 

 

mm: m: 

 

 

carat-rm: mm:



mammal: 


trimaran-am. manna


 

?mammals: 
mar "W?l?llml

 

If; 

subwrihed and Sworn to
harm me this day
of . 200?".

 

HY mini-51m mm:

 

I
latlzy H1211: ?autism Rm 8381

Mia-L1.


hm;- 1:111:01: acquit! Hutu-II.

Ill! 1951'!?

Attic}: huh: I path-ramp anointing or nth-I.- w: sunbathing
?amingo! ?ll-mm ?u lam-hip.

EDS- 
19 3.133

 "all?;
. 

a Evr'

1'
?inl-q Ill-

  

mm- 

 

MEI-?Eisner! adult-Elma: receipt n! 11:11 eel: or contact Damn it: Contact
and lddtudn Eutharlli unini- in?icatad herel. 1h:
mama make: tn: foregoing aid Brogan]. mhjact to :11 of. the tam and conditiona_
a: the Gnu-act Wu. The under-iguana mm" than: :11 a: th- gouache
ltlta?nu a! the Out?tter: certifications In true and met. the undersigned
that all a! tint: and information by the undersigned 1n
mim?th this Hummtmudmect. wanna-udmcutionozth:
the taxidermist-d Igrm Eh?: mum oi thi- Pmpanl m1: stand as the

mtgad'l mention of. the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MINI-EB INCH:

333111195 MS: 

IEIHISSR:

WEN: -mmnm


mantra-until: 

 




I Dita:


Mammoth? day

G: I .
Hy minim: expires:

 

I
Ictuy huh Ilsa-[tun tint-:3 8:11

i can: mun mm mm 10; am 10-5-1.


uni-mum hum-r: gravid-d by 11115:? (Inna-d Stunt-l.

Ins Inca luau. 

hurl-tn I. nth-"hip molu?un or nth: dam-at nth-thin
annual: a: this languid. on ham: 9! th- Duh-twp.



EDS-20
3. 138




:?sz



.29

30



 

undmignad labia-r1169? of I. run at. of Contract. mutants in: contract
Jill-bar and Mandi Will?nine unlu- indicated here}. The
understand. nukes the fmgoing Hid nape-a1 to :11 at um and audition!
of the tantrum: the undersigned entities tint. I11 at" the imlgning
lutmti a! the macro: uni?cation: In turn: and correct. min-ligand
warrants that I11 at th flats and. infatuation ?knitted by :91: union-ligand in
mien with thin laid. [upon]. are tm Ind'correct. Upon and. and execution of a:
0mm. the undersigned agreu that mention of thin Proposal .ah?au stud the

MINI: vacuum a: the. contract.

 

m:

 

mm:

 



 

mamas mam:

 

 

mm mm:' mm.


manna-aunts}:

 

 





?manna-mm mum:


 

 

n. x_ . Date:

Subscribed and Sworn to
before an this any
0? 

 

 

It? minim amine:

 

I
that; mun Ila-hurl Entity Sal].

I?ll one: mm mm 1'3, Hm 10-5-1.


?1!th mm by numil emu-d Ila-tutu.
I03 Inca (#511.

Attach I mun-hip menu? or duals-ant mm
mm at 1:111: Bid unpaid. an n! th- mtn-nhip. 

EDS-21 3 138

3 1



(annual: ll

11:: mm receipt I. {1.111 set of mutt-Lat anew-ant: for ?antmt
Ember Ind Addenda Kuhn-ts] {Hana unit-u hid-hated
hm]. mien-19nd ulna an mugging Bid mu mlhjuct to :11 a: the ham and
auditin- nt the ammo; Bum-anti. undersigned. mun? um; :11 at the 1161:!
Ind intonation submitted by an mgr-tinned in coma-him with this 31:! m1 an:
tuna and correct. Upcn mid and mum at the amulet. the: mainland Jar!? Hill?-
ulcuuoa at this Prepay: ?11111 ?and the undezaimml's mien n! the mtmc.

mm m. as?? #gwl?e?v 3mg; ,5 41 

 

 
 
   

mums mama: . a
mama m: 0 w: mm
mm:- mm: a

 

gf?? 7 in. m? mu; 1? 




 

 



?mun-Imus. 
mantra mm:- 

PRESIDENT: flgt'f 41:1? VICE mm: .

 

 

 

  

My mission when:
mun. m!


1M .. 
In Public Sign: Hutu? Ru:

- nu- 
?toll-I
Mttd?nm?dm.

mm In. Win-5.1.


ml?ut walnut-w. nut-uh huh I. uzmmd th- manor-:- 01'
chair ?Mutant, ?u unmet-luau 'I?hl?h to m- Hill

In! turn": on hob-1t of. th- ?mutton.
Ens-24 I
3.133

 

TT

Request For Proposal No. 119-594 0MP

ATTACHMENT C: GENERAL CONDITIONS



32

33


i .

QUICK LEONARD KIEFFER

.Il-u will. glam?alt"

SECTION 5: REQUESTED EXCEPTIGNS T0 GENERAL CONDITIONS

. EXCEPTIONS

We do not have any oxoeptions to the goneral conditions. Anaohed are Cook.
County Health Hosprtals? general conditions (Attachment .C).

GENERAL CONDITIONS

SOLE SOURCE

CONTENTS

GC-OI SUECONTRACIING OR ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACT OR CONTRACT
FUNDS - 

GCCI PERSONNEL

60-03 INSURANCE

INSPECIION AM: RESPONSIBILITY

GC-os MWICATIGN

GC-IIS PAYMENT

PREPAID FEES

GC-OS TAXES

60-09 PRICE REDUCTION

CONTRACTOR CREDITS

06-] I DISPUTES

2 DEFAULT

COUNTY REMEDIES

GC-IA CONTRACTOR REMEDIES

G015 DELAYS

GC-16 MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS

PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES

GC-IB COWUANCE WIIH THELAWS
GC-ISMINORITYAND WOMEN BUSINESS ENIERPRISE
GC-zo MATERIAL DATA SAFETY SHEET
GC?zl CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR

60-22 ACCIDENTREPORTS 

GOES USE OF DISCOUNTY PREMISES - -
GC24 GENERAL NOTICE
60-25 TERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND SUSPENSION OF CONTRACT
GC-26 GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES

DRAFT



12
13

34

(Tc-2? STANDARD OF DELIVERABLES
(3023 DELIVERY

tic-29 

COMRAOT INTERPRETATION

Oc?Sl CONFIDENTIALITYATDOWNERSHIP 0F 
GC-32 AUDTT

(Sc-33 GOVERNWG 

(Sc-.34 WAIVER

OC-Ss ENTIRE CONTRACT

(EC-36 FORCE MAJEURE OR DELAYS

(EC-37 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR NO THIRD PARTY

BENEFICIARIES



 0R ASSIGNMENT 0F COMRACT OR CONTRACT
FUNDS

Once awarded. this Contract shall not be subcontracted or assigned, in whole or in part. without the
advance trainer: approval of the Agent, which approval shall be granted or withheld at
the sole discretion of the Purchasing Agent. in no case, however, shalt such approval toilet-'6 
Contractor tionr its obligations or change the tones of the Contract. The Connector shall not
transfer or assign any Contract funds or any interest therein due or to become due without the
advance written approval of the Purchasing Agent. The or News?
of the Contract. in whole or in part, or the unauthorized transfer or assignment of any Contract
?tnds, either in whole or in part, or any interest therein, which shall be due or are to become due the
Contractor strait have no effect on the County and are null and void. 

Prior to the commencement of the Contract, the Contractor shall identify in writing to the
Purchasing Agent the any and all subcontractors it intends to use in the performance of the
Contract. The Purchasing Agent shall have the right to disapprove any subcontractor.
identi?cation of subcontractors to the Producing Agent shall he in addition to any communications
with County offices other than the Purchasing Agent. All subcontractors shall be subject to the
terms of this Contract. Contractor shall incorporate into all subcontracts all of the provisions of the
Contract which affect such subcontract. Copies ofsubconlracts shall be provided to the Pruchasin??.

Agent upon request.

The Contractor must disclose the name and business address ofeaeh subcontractor?. anomey?.?
lobbyist. accountant. consultant and any other person or entity whom the Contractorhas retained or
expects to retain in connection with the Matter, as well as the nature of the relationship", and the
total amount of the fees paid or estimated to be paid. The Contractor is not required to disclose
ernployees who are paid or estimated to be paid. Tire-Contractor is not required to disclose

employees who are paid solely through the contractor?s regular molt. "Lobbyist" means any -

person or entity who undertakes to influence any legislation eradministra?ve action on behalf of
any person or entity other titan] a entity", on an unpaid basis?. or (2). hims??
"Lobbyist" also means any person or entity any part of whose duties as an capioycc of another
includes undertaking to in?uence any legislative or adrninistrative action. if the Contractor is
uncertain whether a disclosure is required under this Section, the must either 1.15?- ?15
County, whether disclosure is required or maketlre disclosure.

The County reserves the right to prohibit any person ?'orn entering any Cormty facilityr fur 
reason. All contractors and subcontractors of the Contractor shall be accountable to the Direct?!? 0f
the Using Department or his de?gnee while on any County property and shall abide by all rules and
regulations imposed by the County. 

36

DRAFT

Gc-nz PERS 

The quality. experience and availability of personnel employed by the Contractor is ufthe 65531103:
The Contractor shall provide the County 1rvith a list ot?ali key personnel to be used on the protect
and their designated assignment. The list shall include the quali?cations of each person named.
?Ihe County may at any time request, in writing. the Contractor to remove any cf the Contractor?5
assigned personnel for cause and forthwith ?tmish tothe County other acceptable Willi
thirty (30) days of notification. Notwithstanding the County?s approval of Connector?s personnel.
the Contractor shall be ?rlly responsible to Conan; for all work performed pursuant to this Contract

- by Contractor's employees, subcontractors or others vat-lo may be retained by the Contractor with the
approval ofthe County. 

(313-03 INSURANCE

Contractor shall purchase and maintain at all times during the term of this Contract insurance
coverage which is Satisfactory to the County and will satisfactorily insure the Contractor against
claims and liabilities which arise or could arise because of the performance or nonperfornrance of
the Contract. All insurance required hereunder shall meet the requirements of the County's
Departmentot'Risk lvtanagementand shall name the Countyas an additional insured unless such
designation is unavailable due to commacial practices in the insurance industry as to a par?cr?ar
type of coverage. With the exception of certi?cates required to be submitted with the Proposal.
Contract shall deliver to the County satisfactory certificates evidencing compliance with this
irrsruanee provision priorto commencing performance under the Contract. 

err-oar sun 

At any and at all times timing the term oftire Contact and at anyJocation where the Calumet is
performed, the County shall have a right to hrspect any Deliver-ables provided in carrying out this
Contract. The Contractor shall he solely responsible for the quality and standards of all Deliverables
?rmished under this Contract. Deliver-ables may he rejected by the Purchasing Agent tl'l?
Director of the Using Department if they fail to meet Contract requirements or are provided in a
manner which does not meet Contract requirements. Li the event of such rejection, Deliverables
shall be replaced andr'or rte-performed by the Contractor and at no additional cost to the
County. Any Deliverable: rejected strait be removed within a reasonabletime tiara the premises of
the County at theentire expense of the Contractor, alternation has been given by'the COUNTY ?0 the
- Contractor that such Deliverable: have been rejected.

37



INDEMNIFICATION

The Conn-actor covenants and agrees to indemnify and save harmless the County and its
commissioners, of?cials, employees. agents and representatives, and their respective heirS.
successors and assigns. from and against any and all costs. expenses, attorneys fees. losses.
damages and liabilitics incurred or suffered directly or indirectly horn or attrbutable to any claims
arising out etc: incident to the performance or nonperformanee of the Contract by the Contractor.
or the acts or omissions of the officers, agents, employees. contractors, subcontractors, licensees or
invitees of the Contractor. The Contractor expressly understands and agrees that any Perfonnance
Bond or insurance protection required of the Contractor, or otherwise provided by the Contractor.
shall in no way limit the responsibility to indemnity the Cormty as hereimhove provided. -

GC-ti? PAYMENT

All invoices submitted by the Contractor shall he in accordance with the cost provisions contained -
in the Cm'rtract Documents and shall contain a detailed description of the Deliverables for which
payment is requested. All invoices shall reflectthe amounts invoiced by and the amorous paid to tilt!
Contractor as ofthe date Ofthe invoice, and shall be 511me together are a smear malt-lad
County Voucher form (2911). Invoices for new charges shall not include "past due? amounts, if
any, which amounts must he set forth on a separate invoice. No payments shall be made With
respect to invoices which do not include the County Voucher form or which otherwise fail to
comply with the requirements of this paragraph. Contractor shall not be entitled to invoice the



cc-or PREPAID seas 

lntheeventthisContract is tenninatedbyeitherparty. for cause orc?rerwise, and the County has
prepaid for any Deliverables. Contractor shall re?rnd to the County, on a prorated basis to the
re?ective date of tennhtation, all amounts prepaid for Deliver-ables not actually provided as of the
effective date'of the termination. The refund shall be made withh'r fourteen {14) days of the





Federal Excise Tax does not apply to materials purchased by the Cathay by virtue of ExcmP?O?
Certificate No. 36-75-tlt138K. Retailer-5' Occupation Tart. Use Tax and Municipal Retailers
Occupation Tax do not apply to deliver-ables. materials or services purchased by the County by
virtue or statute. The price or prices quoted herein shall include any and all other federal andr'or
state, direct andfor indirect taxes which apply to this Consent. The Comny's State of Sales
Tax Exemption Identi?cation No. is 5-9998-2013-05.

 Dana?s?

GC-tlii PRICE REDUCTION

if at any time after the contract award, Contractor real-res a general price reduction in the price of
any of the Deliver-ables, the equivalent price reduction based on similar quantities andt?or
considerations shall apply to this Contract for the duration ofthe Connect period. For pursues of

this Section 66-09. Price Reduction, a general price reduction shall include reductions in the .

effective price charged byContraotor by reason of rebates. ?nancial incentives, discounts. value
points or other bene?ts with respect to the purchase of the Deliverables. Such price reductions shall
bee??ecriveatthe same tinteand in the in drsp?w
of the Deliverable; to its prospective customers generally.

common CREDITS

To the extent the Contractor gives credit: toward ?tnue purchases of goods or services. ?nancial
incentives, discounts. value points or other bene?ts based on the purchase of the materials or
services provided for under this Contract. such credits belong to the County and not any wt?c
using department. Contractor shall re?ect any such credits on its invoices and in the arnotmls it
invoices the County.

GC-ll DISPUTES

Any dispute arising under the Cmtract between the County and Contractor shall be decided by the
Purchasing Agent. The complaining patty shall submits written statement detailing the dispute and
Speci?dng the speci?c relevant Contactpsovisio?s) to the Purchasing Agent. Upon request ofthe
Purchasing Agent, the party complained against shall respond to the complaint in writing withln
?ve days of such reqqu The Purchasing Agent will reduce his decision to writing and mail or
othenvise ?rmish a copy tirereof to the Contractor and the Director of the Using Deparhrrenb'lho
decision of the Purchasing Agent will be ?nal and binding. Dispute resolution as provided herein
shall be a condition precedent to any other action at law or in equity. However. unless a notice rs
issued by the Purchasing Agent indicating that additional time is required to review a dispute, the
parties may exercise their contractual remedies, if any, ifno decision is made within sorry {60} days
following noti?cation to the Pro-chasing Agent ofa dirtpute. No inference shall be drawn ?oor the
absence of a decision by the Purchasing Agent. Notwithstanding a dispute, Contractor shall
continue to discharge all its obligations, duties and responsibilities set forth in the Contract dunng
any dispute resolution proceeding unless otherwise agreed to by the County in writing.

GIG-12 DEFAULT

Contractor shall be in default hereunder in the event of a material breach by Contractor of any term
or condition of this Contact including. but not limited to, a representation or wan'anty,? where
hasiiriledtocure such breach withinten notice ofbreech 1531?"
to Conuaetor by the County. setting forth the nature ofsuch breach.

In the event Contractor shall breach any material terms or conditions of this Contract on more titan
one occasion during any twelve month period during the term hereof; or in the event Contractor
expresses an unwillingness or inability to continue perfonning the Contract in accordance with 
terms, the County may; at its option, declare the Contractor to be in default and the County shall be
entitled to exercise all available remedies including, but not limited to. tent-titration of the Contract,
withorn ati?ording the Contractor ?oater opportunity to care such breach. Failure of County 10 gm
written notice ofbreach to the Contractor shall not be deemed to be a waiver of the County?s right
to assert such breach at a later time, should the Contractor commit a subsequent breach of this

Contract.

39

.lul- 

?i'rl

A -..1
:en" If" 

County shall he in dethult herede if any material tench ofthe Contract by County oecurswhieh
15 not cured by ?it: (3011111? Wilhln ninety (90) days a?cr written notice has been given by Contractor
to the County, setting forth the nature of such breach.

GC-IS REMEDIES

Following notice of material breach to Contractor. the County reserves the right to withhold
otherwise owed to Contracmr until such time as Contractor has cured the breech. 

If the Contractor fails to remedy a material breach during the ten (l0) day care period pursuant to
General Condition Default, or if Contractor commits a Subsequent material breech within a
twelve month period or expresses an mwillingness or inability to continue performing the Contract
in Rotterdam: with its terms. the County strait have the rigid to terminate this Contract upon written
notieete the Contractor which shall set forth the effective date of such termination.

In addition, the County shall have the right to pursue all remedies in law or equity.

GC?ld CONTRACTORS REMEDIES

If the County has been noti?ed of breach and lirils to remedy the breach during the day
care period pursuant to General Condition GC-IZ, Delirult, the Contractor stroll have the right to
terminate this Contract upon not teas titan thirty (30) days prior written notice to the County, which
notice shall set forth the effective date oftermina?on.

Contractor shall have the right to pursue all remedies available in law or equity. hi all erases the
Contractor's damages shall be those aetualprovable damages not to exceed the amottnt 0f 1W3
Contract as awarded by the Cook County Board of Commissioners less all amounts paid 10
Contractor. hi no event shall Contractor be entitled to any consequential damages- I?t?pe?ive 0f
the exercise of remedies hereunder, Contractor shall not disrupt the County?s operations or
repossess any component thereof.

Gc-rs DELAYS

Contractor agrees that no charges or claims for damages shall be made by Contractor for any delays
or hindrances from any cause wtratsoever timing the progress of any portion of this Contract.

oc-rs MODIFICATIONS AND smartest ears

The parties may from time to time during the term of the Contract make modi?cations and
amendments to the Contract but only as provided in this section. Such modi?cations and
mnendments shall only be made by mutual agreement in writing. Modi?cations and amendments
which individually or cumulatively result in additional cost or greater or which extend
thetcn'n Grille Contract by thirty (30) daysormore shall not be deemed asatrtho?zcd without the
approval of the Cook County Board of Commissioners. Modi?cations and amendments which
increase cost by less than ?$90.00 or which do not extend the term of the Contract by more than
- thirty {30] days may only be made with the written approval of the PurchasingAgent.

Subject to the foregoing. the Director of the Using Department may. by written order, make
change: with respect to the dates oi?delivery and places ofperformanee ofthe Contract, provided
"it any such changes shall not increase the Contract price or the time required for Contract

pctfonnanoe.

- 

i I
a


40

DRAET

Contractor is hereby noti?ed that, except for modi?cations and amendments which are made in
accordance with this Section 60?16, Modifications and Amerdments. no County department or
employee thereof has authority to make any modi?cation or amendment to this Contract.

(re-17 PATENTS, Garments AND LICENSES

Contractor shall ?tmish the Director of the Using Department with all licenses required for the
County to utilize any software, including ?rmware or middleman; provided by Contractor as part
of the Dieliverahies. Such licenses shall be clearly marked with a reference to the number of this
County Contract. Contractor shall also ?rmish a cepy ofsueh licenses to the Purchasing Agent
Unless othenvise mined in these Contract documents, such licenses shall be perpetual and shall not
limit the nurnberol?persons who may utilize thesoftware on behalf ofthe County.

Contractor agrees to hold bunnies and indemni?: the County, its officers, agents Empl?l'?'rs 3115
affiliates from and defend, at its own expense (including reasonable and
consultants' fees}, any suit or proceeding brought against County based upon a claim that the
ownership and'or use of equipment. hardware and software or any part thereof provided In the
County or utilized in performing Contractor?s services constitutes an in?-ingernent of any patent.
cepyright orliceose or any otherproperty right._ 

scar threats. COPYRIGHTS AND LICENSES room.)

In the event the use of any equipment, hardware or software or any part thereof is enjoined.
Contractor with all reasonable speed and due diligence shall provide or otherwise secure for
at the Contractor's election, one of the following: the right to continue use of the
equipment, hardware or software; an equivalent system having the Speci?cations as provided in
this Contract: or Contractor shall modify the system or its component parts so that they become
non-in?inging while perfonning in a substantially similar manner to the original system, meeting
the requirements of this Contract.

GC-LB COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAWS

I The Contractor shall observe and comply with the laws, ordinances, regulations and codes of the 

Federal. State. County and other local government agencies which may in any manner affect the
performance of the Contract including, but not limited to, those County Ordinances set forth in the
Certi?cations attached hereto and incorporated herein. Assurance Of? compliance with this
requirernent by the Crate-actor's employees, agents or subcontractors shall be the responsibility of

the Contractor.

The Contractor shall secure and pay for all federal, state and local licenses, permits and fees
required hereunder.

WOMEN BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
COOK COUNTY ORDINANCE 6, SECTION 34-2175 - 34-235 

I. POLICY AND GOALS

A. It is the policyof the County ot'Coolt to preventdiscrimination in the award ofor
participation in Cormty contracts and to eliminate arbitrary ban-lets for participation. as both Pm
and subcontractors, in such contracts by local businesses certi?ed as Minority Business 
(MBE) and Women-owned Business Enterprises (WEB). hi tin-therance ofthis policy, the Cook
County Board of Commissioners has adopted a Minorin- and Women-owned Business Enterprise

41

Ordinance (the "Ordinanc? which establishes a ?best efforts? goal of awarding not less than thirty-
?ve of the annual total dollar amount ofpro?essiona] and consulting service contracts and .
sole solace agreements to certi?ed M385 and WBEs.

B. A contractor may achieve the contract participation goals by its statrrs as
a MBB or WEE: by entering into ajoint venture with one or more MBEs andlor by
subcontracting a portion of the work to one or more MBEs or by entering into a Mentor-
Protme Agreernent with a MBE or by the indirect participation ofMBEs or WBEs in other
aspects ofthe contractor?s business; or by a combination of the foregoing.

C. A contractor's failure to carry out its commitments in the course ofa
contractor's per-romance shall constitute a material breach of the contract. and if such breach is not
cured, may result in the lamination of the contract or such other remedy authorized

by the Ordinance as the County deems appropriate.

II. REQUIRED SUBMITTALS

To be considered responsive to the requirements of the Ordinance: to) a far
professional and oonsuiting service contracts shall submit items A, and listed below; and a
contractor for sole source agreements. shall submit items A and listed below. All documentation
submitted by a contractor shall be reviewed by the Contract (bmpliauce Administrator. Failure to
submit one of the items required in accordance with these general conditions shall be cause to

consider the contractor's proposal non-responsive andbe rejected.

A. I?l?f?it?rnatitne 31 Pig;

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal. a copy of its current internal af?rmative
action plan. if contractorhas no internal a?innative action plan, contractor shall submit a statement
stating why contractor has no such plan. In lieu of an intents] affirmative action plan, a contractor
may submit a copy of its current Letter of Compliance for the United States Department of Labor,

Cities of Federal Connect Compliance Programs.

B. Qua-aegis ?ght-E ?gmentgm' :1

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal, supporting documentation which evidences
efforts the contractor has taken in attempting to adrieve the County's "best efforts? MEHWBE

participation goals.

c. Contractor-:5 S?latement- cg Profesionals

Each contractor shall submit with its proposal. a statement which discloses how the
contractor intends to maximize the use of its MBEIWBE professionals in the course 

theoonlracr. 



If the County of Cool: determines that the contractor has failed to comply with .its
Wham or no portion ofthe Ordinance. it will notify the contractor ofsuch non-
compliance and any and all appropriate actions as set forth within the Ordinance.

tartar: -





42

DRAFT

1v. Raronr?nvornacono-saanrno REQUIREMENTS

The contractor shall comply with the reporting and record-keeping requirements as nra}r 
established by the Contract Compliance Administrator. Upon award of a contract. ?mind? is
rcsponsible for acquiring all necessary county reporting and record-keeping forms which will be
made available in the O?iee of Contract Compliance.

v. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

Compliance with tuna and was reqttiretnents will not diminish or supplant Equal
Empl?llm?nt Opportunity and Civil Rights provisions as otherwise required by law as tltey relate to
contractorand subcontractor obligations.

tic?20 MATERIAL oar-a sari-arr sneer

Where required under the Illinois ?Toxic Substance Disclosure To Etnployees Act". 
Compiled Statutes. 2002, ?20 255?, Contractor shall submit with each delivery of
Deliverables, a Mater-id Safety Data Sheet.

CONDUCT OF THE CONTRACTOR

The Contractor agrees to inform the County on a timely basis ot'all of the Contractor?s interests, if
any, which are or which the Contractor reasonably believes may be incompatible any interest -
of the Cotutty. The Cordractor shall take notice of and comply with the Cool: Cotmty Lobbyist
Registration Ordinance (No. 93-0-22, Neither the Contractor nor any of its 
agents or subcontractors shall use for business or personal gain, or malce other improper use of.
con?dential information which is acquired in connection with the Contract. To the extent
Contractor will have access to the County?s protected health information in performing "5

responsibilities raider this Contract, Contractor stroll contact the Chief Privacy Of?cer for the Using 

Depot-anemia) and shall execute the County?s trusinecs associate agreement prior to 3111?
mponsibilitice which involve accessto protected health information.

ACCIDENT REPORTS

Contractor shall provide the Ptu'chasing Ag?tt and the Director of the Using Department With
prompt written noti?cation (no later titan twenty-four (24) horns) of any occurrence, on County
premises or otherwise, which pertains in any way to this Contract and which results in either
bodily injury to employees or third parties or property damage. The report shall include the name
of person[s) injured, if any; name of the injured person's employer, if any: the date. time and
location of the occurrence; description of the extent of injury andlor damage; the name(s) of
wimeases; thenames of any providers lorown to have provided treatment for irritates summed; and
such other infonnation as may be required by the County. The Contractor shall notify the local
police regarding any occurrence requiring an o?icial police record. The report submimd to the
County should indicate whether the police were noti?ed and, ifso, the number of the police report

(cc-23 USE or com am: nasouncas
Contractor shall confer with the Director ofthe Using Department to ascertain full lmowledge ofall

rules and regulations of the County facilities relative to this Contract and shall cause all of its .

employees, agents and subcontractors to comply ?ierewith. The Contractor shall con?ne the
operations of its employees, agents and subcontractors on County premises to the perfonnance of
the Contract consistent with limits indicated by laws, ordinances, permits auditor direction of the
Director of the Using Department and shall not member the premises with materials or debris. [n

43

 
is: a. l-r 
Int-p II 

perfonning tiie Contract, the Contractor shall not cause or pennit a condition that endangers the
safetyofothersand shall not load or permitany partofastrucnrre to be loadedwhh a weight that
will endanger the ssl?etyofthe or any persons.

Gil-24 GENERAL NOTICE

All notices required pursuantto this Contract shall be in mitingand addressed tothe partiesattheir
respective addresses set ftJl'lh below. All such notices shall be deemed duly given il?lernd delivered
or if deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, registered or certi?ed, return receipt
requested. Notice as provided herein does not waive service or prowss.

TO THE 
COOK COUNTY PURCHASING AGENT
118 North Clark Street. Room ?113 Chicago,
illinois 60602 include County Contact Number
in all notices)

TO THE CONTRACTOR:
At address provided on the Execution Pages or as otherwise indicated in writing to County

Purchasing Agent in a written 'which, in hold face type. references the name of the
Contractor, the County Contract Number and states OF CHANGE IN


GC-ZS mammarron non CONVENIENCE arm SUSPENSION or comer

The County may terminate this Contract, or any portion, at any than by notice in writing {tom the
County to the Contractor. Unless odrenvise stated in the notice, the effective date of such
termination shall be three business days after the date the notice of termination is mailed by the
County. if the County elects to tenninate the Contract in lirll. unless otherwise speci?ed in the
notice the Contractor shall immediately cease performance and shall 
tender to the County all Deliverables, whether completed or in process. if the County $19015 to
terminate the Content in part, unless otherwise speci?ed in the notice of partial termination. the
Contractor shall immediately cease performance of those portions of the Contract which are
tenninated and shall tenderto the County all Deliverables relating to said ??13
Contract, whether completed or in process. Contractor shall re??ain ?om incurring any com
with respect to portions of the Contract which are terminated'except as speci?cally approved by the
Purchasing Agent. .

GC-ZE GUARANTEES AND WARRANTIES

The Contractor shall furnish all guarantees and warranties applicable to the Deliverables to the
Director of the Using Department prior to or at the time of delivery. All Deliverables shell b0
covered by the most favorable commercial warranties and guarantees the Contractor gives 10 any
customer for the same or substantially similar Deliverables or Services. The rights and remedies so
provided shall be In addition to and shall not limit any rights afforded to County under this

Contract.

To the extent Contractor provides Deliverablea manufactured by another entity, Contractor shall
transfer original product warranty and any rights to manufacturer's related services to the County
and shall submit all appropriate documentation of said transfer to the Director of the Using
Department prior to or at the time the Contractortenders the Deliverables.



STANDARD OF DELIVERA BLES

Except as may be expressly stated in the Special Conditions or Speci?cations of this Contract. onlyr
new, originally manufactured Deiivarables will be accepted by the County. The County will not
accept any Deliverables that have been re?n'bished, rebuilt, restored or renovated in any manner. in
addition. experimental materials will not be acceptable. Deiiverabies not produced by regular
production methods andl'or which have not been o??ered for sale to the public through accepted
industry trade cl'aannels for a reasonablc'period of time prior to the commencement of the Cont-re?t

will be considered 

Gil-2.8 DELIVERY

All Contract Goods shipped to the County shall be shipped F.O.B., DESTINATION. FREIGHT
PREPAID. Arrangements shall be made in advance by the Contractor in order that the Count}! may
arrange for receipt of the materials.

Truck deliveries will be accepted before 3:00 PM. on weekdays only. No deliveries Will be
accepted on Saturdays, Sundays or County Holidays. The County is not responsible for delivery
delays due to waiting times for loading and unloading at dock locations.

The quantity of Contract Goods delivered by trust: will be ascertained from a weigh! wilt-?me
issuedby a duly licensed Public Weight-Master. 1n the case of delivery by rail. Weight 13?
ascertained from bill oi?lading ?-ont originating line, but the County reserves the right to tit-weigh 8'1
the nearest available railroad scale.

The Cotmty reserves the right to add new delivery locations or delete previously listed delivery
locations as required during the Contract period. The only restriction regarding the County's right
to add new delivery locations shall he that any new or additional location shall be within the
geographical boundaries oftlre County of Cook.

GIG-29 QUANTITIES

Any quantitiasof indicated in the Proposal Pages for the perfonnance of the Contract are estimates
for the purpose of determining an approximate total Connect amount and may not be the actual
quantities required by the County during the term of the Contract. The County reserves the right to
increase or decrease such quanti?er at the Contract price to correspond to the actual needs of the
County. it? the County increases the quantities required, any such increase shall be subject to an
agreed written amendment in the Contract Amount. The County will be obligated to order and pay
for only such quantities as are from time to time ordered, delivered, and accepted on purchase

orders isotred by the Purchasing Agent.
Gill-30 CONTRACT INTERPRETATION

Whenever the singular is used herein, the masculine, feminine and neuter gender shall be deemed to
include the others. The headings of articles, paragraphs and sections in this Contract are included
for convenience only and shall not be considered by either party in construing the meaning of this
Contract. if any provision or clause of this Conn-act shall be held to ire invalid. such provision 91'
clause shall be deleted item the Contract and the Contract shall be construed to give effect to the

remaining portions thereof:

45

This Contract shall be interpreted and construed based upon the following order ofprecerlence-of 
component PEHS- Such order of precedence shall govern to resolve all cases of conflict. amhrgurty

or inconsistency.

I. Addenda, if any.

2. Execution Forms

3. Speci?cation.

4. Special Conditions.
5; Genera] Conditions.
6. Instruction to Bidders.
7. Legal Advertisement.
8. Bid Proposal.

Gear CONFIDENTIALITY ano OWNERSHIP or DOCUMENTS

Contractor acknowledges and agrees that information regarding this Contract is con?dential and
shall not be disclosed, directly, indirectly or by implication. or he used by Contractor in any war.
whether during the term of this Contract or at any time thereafter, except solely as required in the
course of Contractor's petfonnance hereunder. Contractor shall comply with the applicable 
laws and regulations affecting County and will not disclose any of County's records. mater-i815. 01'
other data to any third party. Contractor shall not have the right to compile and distribute statistical
analyses and rcports utilizing data derived from information or data obtained from County without
the prior written approval of County. In the event such approval is given, any such reports
published and distribrned by Contractor shall he ?rmishcd to Comrty without drarge.

GEE-31 CONFIDENTIALITY AND OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 

All documents. data. smdiea'rcports, work product or product created as a rcsuh ofthc performance
of the Contract (the "Doerrmerrts") shall be included in the Deliverable: and shall he the property of
the County oi'Coolc. it slurll he a breach of this Contract for the Contractor to reproduce or use any
documents, data. studies, reports, work product or product obtained from the County of Cook or
any Documents created hereby, whether such reproduction or use is for Contractor?s own purposei
or for those of any third party. During the performance of the?Contract Contractor shall be
responsible ofany loss or damage to the Documents while they are in Contractor's possession, and
any such loss or damage shall he attire expense of the Contractor. The County and Its
design-es shall be afforded full access to the Documents and the wori: at all times.

oc-sz acorn EXAMINATION or accuses

The Contractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor or any of its duly audtoriaed rcpresentativcs
shall, until expiration of three (3) years after the ?nal pamrent under the Contract, have access and
the right to examine any books, documents, papers, canceled enacts. bank statements, curators
and other invoices, and records of the Contractor related to the Contract. or to Conn-actor?s
compliance with any term. condition or provision thereof. The Contractor shall be ESPOHSMG for
establishing and maintaining records suf?cient to document the costs associated with perfomtanoe

Contract.

The Contractor further agrees that it shall include in all of its subcontracts hereundera prorision to
the re?ect that the subcontractor agrees that the Cook County Auditor or any of its thrillr Whom
representatives shall. tutti! expiration of three (3) years after ?nal payment under the concentrate,
have. access and the right to examine any books, documents, papers, canceled check?i. bank

46

 
{?statements, purveyor's and other invoices and records ot'such subcontractor involving transactions
relating to the subcontract. or to such subcontractors compliance with any term, condition 01?
provision thereunder or under the Contract. 

in the event the Contractor receives payment under the Contract. reimbursement for Which is [3154'
disallowed by the County. the Contractor shall refund the disallowed amount to the
Comrty on request, or at the County's option, the County may credit the amount disallowed from the
next payment due or to become due to the Contractor underany contract with the County.

GC-GZ EXAMINATION 0F RECORDS

To the extent this Contract pertains to Deliverables which may be reimbursable under the

Medicaid or Medicare Programs. Contractor shall retain and make available upon reque?. for a
period of four (4) years after ?tmishing services pursuant to this Agreement. the contract, 500515-

documents and records which are nwessary to certify the nature and extent of the costs ofsueh

services if requested by the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller General

of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives. if Contractor carries out any
of its duties under the Agreement through a subcontract with a related organization involving a
value of cost of $10,000.00 or more over a l2 month period. Contractor will cause such

subcontract to contain a clause to the effect that, until the expiration of four years after the.
furnishing of any service pursuant to said subcontract, the related organization will make
available upon request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller
General of the United States or any of their duly authorized representatives. copies of said
subcontract and any books documents, records and otherdata of said related organization that

are necessary to certify the nature and extent of such costs. This paragraph relating 1" 
retention and production of documents is included because of possible application of Section
ofthe Social Security Act to this Agreement: if this Section should 'be found to be
inapplicable. then this paragraph shall be deemed inoperative and witherrt force and effect.

GC-33 GOVERNING LAW

This Contract shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of The

Contractor irrevocably agrees that, subject to the County's sole and absolute election to the contrary.

any action or proceeding in any way. warmer or respect arising out of the Contract. or raisins 50m

any dispute or controversy arising in connection with or related to the Contract1 shall be litigated

only in courts within the Circuit Court of Cool: County in the City of Chicago. County ol'Coolr,

State of Illinois, and the Contractor cements and submits to the jrn-isdiction thereof. In madame
with these provisions, Contractor waives any right it may have to transfer or change Willie 0f
any litigation brought against it by the Colony pursuantto this Contract. 

WAIVER

No term or provision of this Contract shall be deemed waived and no breach consented to unless
'such waiver or consent shall be in wiring and signed by the party claimed to have waived or

consented. The waiver of any such provision shall be strictly limited to the identi?ed provision.

GC-Ss ENTIRE CONTRACT

it is expressly agreed that the provisions sat forth in this Contract constitute all the 

and agreements between the parties. Any prior agreements, promises, negotiations, or
representations not expressly set forth in this Contract arc of no force and effect.

 FORCE MAJEURE DR UNAVOIDABLE DELAYS 

Neither Connector nor County shall be liable for failing to ful?ll any obligation under this Contract
tfsuch failure is caused byen event beyond such party's reasonable control which is not caused by
such party?s ?tult or negligence. Such events shall be limited to acts of God, acts of war. ?ns.

lightning, floods, epidemiee. or tints. .
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR NO BENEFICIARIES

The Contractor and its employees. agents and subcontractors are. for all purposes arising out ofthe
Conn-act. independent contractors and not employees of the County. it is expressly understood and
amend that neither the Conn-actor nor cone-actor's employees. agents or subcontractors shall be
entitled to any bene?t to which County employees may be entitled including, but not limited to,
. overtime or unemployment compensation, insurance or retirement bene?ts, workers' compensation
or occupational disease bene?ts or edict-compensation or leave arrangements.

Nothing contained herein shall be deemed or construed by the parties hereto, or by any third party.
as creating the relationship or principal and agent or of partnership or ot'joint venturer or eny
relationship between the parties hereto other than that of independent contractors. Nothing herein
shall be construed to confer upon any third parties the stems ofthird party bene?ciary.

END OF SECTION

48

