Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday,
June 29, 2012 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago,
Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Batts called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Warren L. Batts, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell,
MPH; Hon. Jerry Butler; David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM; Luis
Muñoz, MD, MPH; Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM; and Ruth M. Rothstein (10)

Also Present:

Edward L. Michael; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD

Absent:

Director Benn Greenspan, PhD, MPH, FACHE (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Anna Ashcraft – Cook County Real Estate
Management Division
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. – State’s Attorney’s Office
Claudia Fegan, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County
Deborah Fortier – Office of the System General
Counsel
David Goldberg, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County
Larry Goodman, MD - Rush University Medical
Center
Helen Haynes – System Associate General Counsel
Gladys Lopez – System Interim Director of Human
Resources
Mindy Malecki – System Director of Risk
Management

II.

Randall Mark – System Director of Intergovernmental
Affairs and Policy
John Morales – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County
Hon. Toni Preckwinkle – President, Board of
Commissioners of Cook County
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Kevin Scanlan – Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare
Council
Carol Schneider – System Chief Operating Officer

Public Speakers
Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.
2.
3.
4.

George Blakemore
Lawrence Msall
Joanne Tunney
Gregory VanDuan

Concerned Citizen
Civic Federation
Cermak Health Services of Cook County
Cermak Health Services of Cook County

Following the testimony of Ms. Tunney and Mr. VanDuan regarding Mental Health Specialists at Cermak
Health Services of Cook County, it was determined that Vice Chairman Ramirez and Dr. Ram Raju, Chief
Executive Officer, would meet in the near future to further discuss the matter.

Page 1 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, June 29, 2012
Page 2

III.

Action Items
A. Proposed Resolution – honoring Warren L. Batts, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System (Attachment #1)
B. Proposed Resolution – honoring David Ansell, MD, Member of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System (Attachment #2)
C. Proposed Resolution – honoring Benn Greenspan, PhD, Member of the Board of Directors of
the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (Attachment #3)
D. Proposed Resolution – honoring Sister Sheila Lyne, Member of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System (Attachment #4)
E. Proposed Resolution – honoring Ruth M. Rothstein, Member of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System (Attachment #5)
Note: Items III(A) through III(E) were taken out of order, and were considered following the Call to
Order, and prior to receiving public testimony.
Chairman Batts temporarily relinquished the Chair to Vice Chairman Ramirez. Acting Chairman
Ramirez assumed the Chair.
Acting Chairman Ramirez introduced the proposed Resolutions in honor of the five (5) members of
the System Board whose terms will end on June 30, 2012.
The following individuals provided comments in recognition of the accomplishments of Chairman
Batts, and Directors Ansell, Greenspan, Lyne and Rothstein:
Hon. Toni Preckwinkle – President, Board of Commissioners of Cook County
Kevin Scanlan - President and Chief Executive Officer, Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council
(MCHC)
Dr. David Goldberg – President of the Executive Medical Staff, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County
Dr. Larry Goodman – Chief Executive Officer, Rush University Medical Center
Hon. Jerry Butler – Member, Board of Commissioners of Cook County and Member, Board of
Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
William T. Foley - former System Chief Executive Officer (Mr. Foley was not present, but he sent a
letter in honor of the occasion, which was read into the record - Attachment #6)
Dr. Raju, Acting Chairman Ramirez and Directors Muñoz, Golden, O’Donnell and Carvalho provided
additional comments. Acting Chairman Ramirez presented the outgoing Directors with a small token
of appreciation on behalf of the System.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved the approval of the five
Resolutions honoring the outgoing Board Members. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Batts resumed the Chair.

Page 2 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, June 29, 2012
Page 3

IV.

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, May 31, 2012
Director Ansell, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Board of Directors Meeting of May 31, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, June 19, 2012
Director Ansell, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of June 19, 2012. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
C. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, June 22, 2012
Director Lyne, seconded by Director Rothstein, moved the approval of the minutes
of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of June 22, 2012. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, June 22, 2012
Director Carvalho, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of the
minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting of June 22, 2012.
Director Carvalho noted that request number 10 under the Contracts and
Procurement Items contained within the minutes is being withdrawn, as it is
pending review by Contract Compliance.
Director Carvalho, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved to amend the motion
to approve the minutes, with the exception of request number 10, which is being
withdrawn, under the Contracts and Procurement Items contained within the
minutes. THE MOTION, AS AMENDED, CARRIED.

V.

Action Items
A. Ratification of the following appointments:
i. Appointment of Interim Chairman of the Human Resources Committee, effective
July 1, 2012
ii. Appointment of Interim Chairman of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee,
effective July 1, 2012
Chairman Batts noted that, as of the end of this meeting, there will be two Committee Chairs who
will be retiring. He indicated that Directors Golden and Butler have agreed to serve as Interim
Chairs of the Human Resources Committee and Quality and Patient Safety Committee.
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to ratify the
appointment of Director Golden as Interim Chair of the Human Resources
Committee, and to ratify the appointment of Director Butler as Interim Chair of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 3 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, June 29, 2012
Page 4

V.

Action Items (continued)
B. Proposed Resolution – defining the process for review and execution of clinical training
agreements (Attachment #7)
Helen Haynes, System Associate General Counsel, provided an overview of the proposed Resolution.
Director Ansell, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the proposed
Resolution defining the process for review and execution of clinical training
agreements. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
C. Request to execute a proposed Lease Agreement between Cook County/CCHHS and the
Illinois Medical District Commission, for property located at 600 South Hoyne, in Chicago,
Illinois (Attachment #8)
The following individuals provided an overview of the information relating to the request: John
Morales, Chief Financial Officer of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County; Carol Schneider,
System Chief Operating Officer; and Anna Ashcraft, Director of the Cook County Real Estate
Management Division.
Mr. Morales stated that an exhaustive search was made to locate space on campus for this purpose;
however, there was no area with feasible square footage that would facilitate this need. Ms. Ashcraft
stated that this matter was reviewed by the Space Committee; she added that, prior to finalizing this
Lease Agreement, there will be additional review of other County-owned properties to see if one
might meet this need. Should a County-owned property be available, the Board will be informed at
the next meeting.
Director Carvalho inquired regarding whether space could be found on campus for this purpose, if
other areas or departments who are not required to be in close proximity to the campus were
relocated. Ms. Schneider stated that the Space Committee reviews the appropriateness of space; she
noted that it is important to keep clinical space contiguous when possible, for the convenience of the
patients. The location at 600 South Hoyne, while not directly on campus, is fairly proximate. From
a convenience and access standpoint, it allows the System to provide separate parking for the
patients; the location also allows the System to have complimentary bus service added to the route
around the campus, to keep it as convenient as possible. Additionally, Ms. Schneider indicated that
the staff from the State need to be located in one area, rather than being split on multiple sites and
geographies; this will allow them the opportunity to work in a more efficient way.
Director Lyne, seconded by Director Ansell, moved the approval of the request to
execute the proposed Lease Agreement between Cook County/CCHHS and the
Illinois Medical District Commission, for property located at 600 South Hoyne, in
Chicago, Illinois. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Request to execute a proposed Amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement
between
CCHHS, Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Illinois Department of Healthcare and
Family Services, regarding payments to healthcare facilities (Attachment #9)

Page 4 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, June 29, 2012
Page 5

V.

Action Items
D. Request to execute a proposed Amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement (continued)
Randall Mark, System Director of Intergovernmental Affairs and Policy, reviewed the information
presented relating to the request presented for the Board’s consideration. He noted that this request
will also be presented to the Cook County Board of Commissioners for their approval at an
upcoming meeting.
Director Carvalho inquired whether the System is contemplating agreements with community
partners. Dr. Raju responded that activities relating to the Section 1115 Waiver will require the
System to strategically enter into partnerships with federally-qualified health centers (FQHCs) and
their community-based partners. Director Carvalho noted that there is a provision in the CCHHS
Procurement Code that requires any outside inquiry by anyone interested in a contract to be logged
and posted to the internet; he requested that staff ensure that the inquiry/contact log is implemented
with respect to this matter, as well.
Director Ansell, seconded by Director Golden, moved the approval of the request
to execute the proposed Amendment to the Intergovernmental
Agreement
between CCHHS, Cook County Board of Commissioners and the Illinois
Department of Healthcare and Family Services, regarding payments to healthcare
facilities. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
E Any items listed under Sections III, IV, V and VII

VI.

Report from Chairman of the Board
With regard to the Cook County Health Foundation, Chairman Batts stated that there is a meeting
scheduled to follow this Board Meeting, for the discussion of future direction and activities. He noted
that Directors Muñoz and Greenspan are the two members on this Board who serve on an advisory
group to move this project forward. Ms. Schneider is Chair of that group; also involved are Elizabeth
Reidy, System General Counsel, and Joy Wykowski, Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive Officer.
Chairman Batts thanked Directors Butler and Golden for agreeing to serve as Interim Chairs of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee and Human Resources Committee.
Chairman Batts stated that the Board has had many ad hoc work groups over the years. He noted that
Director O’Donnell was particularly active in participating in these activities; he thanked her for her
efforts on these work groups. Additionally, he stated that Directors Greenspan and Golden put in a
tremendous effort and actively worked with the Chief Executive Officer and consultants on the
development of the Strategic Plan.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, June 22, 2012

Page 5 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, June 29, 2012
Page 6

VII. Closed Session Items (continued)
Director Rothstein, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body
to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters
between the public body and its employees or their representatives, or deliberations
concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11),
regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body
has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public
body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding
shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,” and 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as provided
in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise
the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or
discussion of claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or
communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any
intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public
body is a member.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Batts, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Ansell, Butler,
Carvalho, Golden, Muñoz, O’Donnell and Rothstein (9)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Directors Greenspan and Lyne (2)

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Board convened into closed
session.
Chairman Batts declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened
into regular session.
 

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Batts declared the MEETING
ADJOURNED.

Page 6 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, June 29, 2012
Page 7

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Jorge Ramirez, Acting Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 7 of 28

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 8 of 28

  

R-12-09

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS

    

MPROVED

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
JW 2 9 2012
RESOLUTION
OF CCU
Sponsored by HEALTH AND HOSPITALS 

  

 

JORGE RAMIREZ, VICE CHAIR, DAVID A. ANSELL, M.D.,

THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, DAVID CARVALHO, QUIN R. GOLDEN, BENN
GREENSPAN, SISTER SHEILA LYNE, RSM, LUIS MUNOZ, M.D.,
HEATHER E. AND RUTH M. ROTHSTEIN,

DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, in June of 2008, Warren L. Batts was appointed by Todd H. Stroger, President of
the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and con?rmed by the Board of Commissioners to
serve as a member of the inaugural Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batts played an integral role in laying the foundation of the new governance
structure of the Health System which in its early stages demanded a considerable time
commitment from its volunteer Board members; and

WHEREAS, Mr. Batts graciously lent his vast expertise to the Health System by serving as
Chairman of the Board of Directors and remaining in that Vital position throughout his tenure
with the Board; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, was a part of the
leadership team that developed and championed the Health System?s Strategic Plan: Vision 2015
dedicated to continuing the Health System?s mission of delivering integrated health services with
dignity and respect regardless of a patient?s ability to pay in today?s dramatically changing
healthcare landscape; and

WHEREAS, during his tenure with the Health System, Mr. Batts earned the genuine respect of
his fellow Board members for his keen insight; level-headedness and wise counsel; and

WHEREAS, the Health System?s management team held Mr. Batts in high regard and
appreciated his attention to detail, strength and support, as well as his ability to lead with passion
and good humor.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than ?ve million residents of Cook County
served by the System, does hereby gratefully acknowledge Warren L. Batts for his extraordinary
abilities, outstanding leadership and unwavering commitment to the transformation of the Health
System in order to maximize access to quality medical care to all residents of Cook County.

Approved on June 29, 2012 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Page 9 of 28

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 10 of 28

  

R-12-10 APPR VED

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYE TEM

 

 

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS .. JUN 2 2012
avao
RESOLUTION DIRECTORS OF coumv
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Sponsored by

WARREN L. BATTS, CHAIR, JORGE RAMIREZ, VICE CHAIR,
THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, DAVID CARVALHO, QUIN R. GOLDEN, 
BENN GREENSPAN, SISTER SHEILA LYNE, RSM,
LUIS MUNOZ, M.D., HEATHER E. AND RUTH M. ROTHSTEIN,
DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, in May Of 2008, David A. Ansell, M.D., was appointed by Todd H. Stroger,
President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and con?rmed by the Board of
Commissioners to serve as a member of the inaugural Board of Directors Of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Ansell played an integral role in laying the foundation of the new governance
structure of the Health System which in its early stages demanded a considerable time
commitment from its volunteer Board members; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Ansell graciously lent his vast expertise to the Health System by serving as the
Chair of the System Board?s Quality and Patient Safety Committee and remaining in that vital
position throughout his tenure with the Board; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, Dr. Ansell was a part of
the leadership team that developed and championed the Health System?s Strategic Plan: Vision
2015 dedicated to continuing the Health System?s mission of delivering integrated health
services with dignity and respect regardless of a patient?s ability to pay in today?s dramatically
changing healthcare landscape; and

WHEREAS, during his tenure with the Health System, Dr. Ansell earned the genuine respect Of
his fellow Board members for his keen insight; level-headedness and wise counsel; and

WHEREAS, the Health System?s leadership team held Dr. Ansell in high regard and
appreciated his attention to detail, strength and support, as well as his ability to lead with passion
and good humor.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, on behalf Of the more than ?ve million residents of Cook County
served by the System, does hereby gratefully acknowledge David A. Ansell, MD. for his
extraordinary abilities, outstanding leadership and unwavering commitment to the transformation
of the Health System in order to maximize access to quality medical care to all residents of Cook
County.

Approved on June 29, 2012 by the Board of Directors Of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Page 11 of 28

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 12 of 28

  

R-12-11

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITAL
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
JUN 292012
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by DIEIREEAETH Aug 

 

WARREN L. BATTS, CHAIR, JORGE RAMIREZ, VICE CHAIR,
DAVID A. ANSELL, M.D., THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER,
DAVID CARVALHO, QUIN R. GOLDEN, SISTER SHEILA LYNE, RSM,
LUIS MUNOZ, M.D., HEATHER E. AND RUTH M. ROTHSTEIN,
DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, in May of 2008, Benn Greenspan, was appointed by Todd H. Stroger,
President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and con?rmed by the Board of
Commissioners to serve as a member of the inaugural Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; and -

WHEREAS, Dr. Greenspan played an integral role in laying the foundation of the new
governance structure of the Health System which in its early stages demanded a considerable
time commitment from its volunteer Board members; and

WHEREAS, Dr. Greenspan graciously lent his vast expertise to the Health System by serving
on the Strategic Plan Work Group and the Cook County Health Foundation Work Group; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, Dr. Greenspan was a part
of the leadership team that developed and championed the Health System?s Strategic Plan:
Vision 2015 dedicated to continuing the Health System?s mission of delivering integrated health
services with dignity and respect regardless of a patient?s ability to pay in today?s dramatically
changing healthcare landscape; and

WHEREAS, during his tenure with the Health System, Dr. Greenspan earned the genuine
respect of his fellow Board members for his keen insight; level-headedness and wise counsel;
and

WHEREAS, the Health System?s leadership team held Dr. Greenspan in high regard and
appreciated his attention to detail, strength and support, as well as his ability to lead with passion
and good humor.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than ?ve million residents of Cook County
served by the System, does hereby gratefully acknowledge Benn Greenspan, for his
extraordinary abilities, outstanding leadership and unwavering commitment to the transformation
of the Health System in order to maximize access to quality medical care to all residents of Cook
County.

Approved on June 29, 2012 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Page 13 of 28

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 14 of 28

  

R-12-12

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS i STEM I

   

   

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS JUN 29 2922
RESOLUTION av some on:
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Sponsored by

WARREN L. BATTS, CHAIR, JORGE RAMIREZ, VICE CHAIR,

DAVID A. ANSELL, M.D., THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, DAVID CARVALHO,
QUIN R. GOLDEN, BENN GREENSPAN, LUIS MUNOZ, M.D.,
HEATHER E. AND RUTH M. ROTHSTEIN,

DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, in May of 2008, Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM, was appointed by Todd H. Stroger,
President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and con?rmed by the Board of
Commissioners to serve as a member of the inaugural Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System; and

WHEREAS, Sister Sheila played an integral role in laying the foundation of the new
governance structure of the Health System which in its early stages demanded a considerable
time commitment from its volunteer Board members; and 

WHEREAS, Sister Sheila graciously lent her vast expertise to the Health System by serving as
the Chair of the System Board?s Human Resources Committee upon the resignation of the
former chairman, remaining in that vital position through the rest of her tenure with the Board;
and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, Sister Sheila was a part of
the leadership team that developed and championed the Health System?s Strategic Plan: Vision
2015 dedicated to continuing the Health System?s mission of delivering integrated health
services with dignity and respect regardless of a patient?s ability to pay in today?s dramatically
changing healthcare landscape; and

WHEREAS, during her tenure with the Health System, Sister Sheila earned the genuine respect
of her fellow Board members for her keen insight; level-headedness and wise counsel; and

WHEREAS, the Health System?s leadership team held Sister Sheila in high regard and
appreciated her attention to detail, strength and support, as well as her ability to lead with passion
and good humor.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than ?ve million residents of Cook County
served by the System, does hereby gratefully acknowledge Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM for her
extraordinary abilities, outstanding leadership and unwavering commitment to the transformation
of the Health System in order to maximize access to quality medical care to all residents of Cook
County.

Approved on June 29, 2012 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Page 15 of 28

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 16 of 28

  

 

R-12-l3

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS STEM JUN 2 9 2612

 

 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
RESOLUTION HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Sponsored by

WARREN L. BATTS, CHAIR, JORGE RAMIREZ, VICE CHAIR,

DAVID A. ANSELL, M.D., THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, DAVID CARVALHO,
QUIN R. GOLDEN, BENN GREENSPAN, SISTER SHELINA LYNE, RSM,
LUIS MUNOZ, M.D., AND HEATHER E. 

DIRECTORS

WHEREAS, in December of 2011, Ruth M. Rothstein was appointed by Toni Preckwinkle,
President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and con?rmed by the Board of
Commissioners to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System; and

WHEREAS, Mrs. Rothstein graciously lent her vast expertise to the Health System by serving
as Director upon the vacancy left by the resignation of former director Andrea Zopp; and

WHEREAS, while serving on the Health System Board of Directors, Mrs. Rothstein was
dedicated to continuing the Health System?s mission of delivering integrated health services with
dignity and respect regardless of a patient?s ability to pay in today?s dramatically changing
healthcare landscape; and

WHEREAS, during her tenure with the Health System, Mrs. Rothstein earned the genuine
respect of her fellow Board members for her keen insight; level-headedness and wise counsel;
and

WHEREAS, the Health System?s leadership team held Mrs. Rothstein in high regard and
appreciated her attention to detail, strength and support, as well as her ability to lead with passion
and good humor.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than ?ve million residents of Cook County
served by the System, does hereby gratefully acknowledge Ruth M. Rothstein for her
extraordinary abilities, outstanding leadership and unwavering commitment to the transformation
of the Health System in order to maximize access to quality medical care to all residents of Cook
County.

Approved on June 29, 2012 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Page 17 of 28

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #6

Page 18 of 28

 VANGUARD WILLIAM T. FOLEY

A I A 0 Market President

June 22, 2012

Ram Raju, MD

Chief Executive Of?cer

Cook County Health Hospitals System
1900 Polk, Suite 220

Chicago, IL 60612

Dear Dr. Raju:

I?m sorry I?m unable to join you for the 6/29/ 12 meeting of the Cook County Health Hospitals
System Board to personally express my gratitude to the outgoing Board members. I request that
this letter be read into the meeting record.

As the former CEO of I want to express my thanks, appreciation and respect to:

Chairman Warren L. Batts;

David Ansell, 

Sister Sheila Lyne;

Andrea Zopp;

Ruth Rothstein who completed Andrea?s term; and
Benn Greenspan, 

They gave tirelessly of their time and were tremendously supportive of me during the
challenging and transitional time when I served as CEO of In particular, I want to thank
and recognize Chairman Batts for his strong and courageous leadership. Cook County was
fortunate to have the dedicated service of each of these strong leaders.

Sincerely,



1 liam T. Foley
President
Vanguard Health Chicago

cc: Deborah Santana, Secretary to the Board

 

Page tea-aria

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #7

Page 20 of 28

  

 

APPROVED

JUN 2 9 2012


RESOLUTION HEALTH AND HosPITrilosksciglJ'ns'l'ilru?r
DEFINING THE PROCESS FOR REVIEW AND EXECUTION OF
CLINICAL TRAINING AGREEMENTS

 

 

 

R-12-14

WHEREAS the Ordinance establishing the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(?System?), Code of Ordinances of Cook County, Article IV, Section provides that the
System?s Board of Directors (?System Board?) has the power to authorize the Chief Executive
Of?cer to enter into contracts, execute all instruments, and do all things necessary or convenient
in the exercise of the System Board?s powers and responsibilities; and

WHEREAS, System management is endeavoring to clarify and streamline procedures by which
agreements setting forth clinical training arrangements are reviewed and processed;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the System Board grants the System?s Chief
Executive Of?cer or his designee, the authority to implement a procedure for the review and
processing of clinical training agreements, including related program addenda or subagreements,
consistent with the following:

1. Clinical training agreements shall continue to be discussed with the Board?s working
group.

2. Clinical training agreements that require physicians to secure primary faculty
appointments with the other institutional party shall be presented to the Board for
authorization.

3. Reports relative to accreditation, quality and patient safety issues associated with clinical
training programs shall be made to the Board through its Quality and Patient Safety
Committee.

4. Clinical training agreements that do not provide for payment to or by the and
that are limited to the rotation of an individual trainee to or from facilities may
continue to be approved and executed by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee.

5. Until November 30, 2012, the following additional procedures shall be followed:

a. Clinical training agreements that provide for payment to or by the may
be approved and executed by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee if
payment is less than $150,000. 

b. Clinical training agreements that provide for payment to or by the may
be approved and executed by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee
following Board authorization if payment is equal to or more than $150,000.

6. Beginning December 1, 2012, the following procedure shall be followed:

a. The Chief Executive Of?cer shall periodically submit an aggregated request for
Board authorization to enter into clinical training agreements with identi?ed
hospitals and universities, which request shall include the maximum amount that

Page 21 of 28

 

shall be payable under such clinical training agreements and the period during
which the clinical training agreements shall be in effect.

b. The Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee shall be authorized to execute clinical
training agreements consistent with the authorization so granted by the Board and
shall not be required to return to the Board for approval of individual program
addenda or subagreements entered into pursuant to this authorization.

c. The Chief Executive Of?cer shall not be required to expend all amounts so
authorized. The Chief Executive Of?cer may approve an increase in the amount
payable under a clinical training agreement only if the maximum total amount
payable, after the increase, is less than $150,000.

(1. In the event a clinical training agreement has not been included in an aggregated
request for Board authorization as provided in this paragraph 6, the procedure set
forth in paragraph 5 of this Resolution shall apply.

Approved on June 29, 2012 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Page 22 of 28

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #8

Page 23 of 28

   

Cook County Board of Commissioners

Cook County Health Ilospitals System

 

 
 
  

42%

Toni Preckwinkle 0 President

 

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH

HOSPITALS SYSTEM Dr. David A. Ansell

Commissioner Jerry Butler
David N. Carvalho
Quin R. Golden
Benn Greenspan

  

Warren L. Batts - Chairman

Jorge Ramirez - Vice-Chairman

Cook County Health Hospitals System Sr. Sheila Lyne
Ram Raju MD, MBA. FACS. FACHE - CEO Dr. Luis R. Mu?oz
Cook County Health Hospitals System Heather O?Donnell

M. 
Carol Schneider-COO 0 ?m

Cook County Health Hospitals System
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

June 26,2012

APPROVED

JUN 22 929:2

 
   

 

To The Board of Directors

From: John R. Morales, CPA

CFO Deputy Director BY BOARD OF

DIRECTORS OF THE COOK 
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS 

 

Re: Lease of IMD Property at 600 South Hoyne Avenue

This communication is being sent in conjunction with a Board Transmittal document prepared with
the Cook County Department of Real Estate to respectfully request Board authorization to
move forward in seeking an operating lease approval to occupy the Illinois Medical District 
building located at 600 South Hoyne Avenue.

The basis of this authorization request is to meet the space requirements set forth by the Illinois
Department of Healthcare and Family Services in order to be able to provide an appropriate
business setting to process medical assistance applications for patients. This effort is tied
directly to an early expansion of Medicaid to cover Cook County individuals who are currently
uninsured, and will become eligible for Medicaid coverage in 2014 under the Affordable Care Act.

The need to utilize the 600 South Hoyne Avenue building has been predicated based on earlier
comprehensive attempts at facilitating a request for space within the facilities located within
the IMD, to house approximately 38 HFS staff that will be performing the above indicated services.

Logistically, the 600 South Hoyne Avenue building is within a reasonable distance from the IHSH
campus to meet patient access needs with a dedicated facility geared to operate for this purpose
including proper parking availability. The building improvements to be completed will include build-
out space for staff needs, as well as telecommunications and IT connectivity in order to be fully
functional for the intended use. The HFS has completed a walk-through of the building and confirmed
that the space and location are adequate for the purpose indicated above.

Upon approval of the Board to proceed forward with the above authorization, the will
request approval to enter into an operating lease agreement with the IMD from the Cook County
Board of Commissioners.

Thank you very much for your consideration of the above request.

1901 West Harrison Street 0 Chicago, Illinois 60612 (312) 864-6000 - TDD (312) 864?0100

 

 

Health 8; Hospitals System Board Members

 

Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from

ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
JOHN R. MORALES, Chief Financial Officer/Deputy Director

Respectfully requesting authorization to negotiate and execute a Lease Agreement between the
Illinois Medical District, as Landlord and the County of Cook, as Tenant for use of a building
owned by the IMD at 600 S. Hoyne Avenue, in Chicago.

The would utilize the premises to house county-funded Illinois Department of Human
Services eligibility staff which receive and process medical assistance applications for 
patients. A signi?cant portion of the work that this eligibility staff will perform is related to an early
expansion of Medicaid to cover Cook County individuals who are currently uninsured and will
become eligible for Medicaid in 2014 under the Affordable Care Act.

The Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS), in collaboration with the Cook
County Board and the Cook County Health and Hospitals System have requested an
1115 [Medicaid] waiver from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), effective
July of 2012. While this waiver application was written with a focus on Cook County, the waiver
could provide for any willing county in Illinois to participate if HFS and CMS standards are met.

This waiver will allow to decrease its uninsured population and provide Medicaid
reimbursement funds to improve the quality, coordination, and cost-effectiveness of the care it
provides.

The IMD has tentatively agreed to lease the property to the County subject to final negotiation of
the following terms and conditions.

0 Term: An initial term of no more than ?ve years.

0 Space Occupied: Approximately 9,400 square feet.

0 Base Rent: No more than $12.00 per square foot $112,000 annually.

0 Operating Expenses: Tenant would be responsible for all costs of operating the

Premises including utilities, security, custodial and snow removal
for the Building. IMD will perform structural repairs to the building
as necessary. 

Improvements: Tenant would be responsible for the cost of build-out to the
Premises as required, prior to occupancy, to accommodate
tenant?s use. A preliminary estimate for build-out is $280,000.
Other costs for communications and connectivity will also be
incurred to bring the space to full operations capability.

0 Funding: The 1115 waiver, including costs related to this lease would be
entirely funded by local county resources and federal matching
funds for eligible services.

Upon receiving authorization from the Board to proceed, a Lease Agreement will be

?nalized with the IMD and submitted for approval by the Cook County Board of Commissioners at
the next available meeting.

Page 25 of 28

Transmitting a Communication, dated June 15, 2012 from
ANNA ASHCRAFT, Director, Real Estate Management Division
JOHN R. MORALES, Chief Financial Officer/Deputy Director
Respectfully requesting authorization to negotiate and execute a Lease Agreement between the
Illinois Medical District, as Landlord and the County of Cook, as Tenant for use of a building
owned by the IMD at 600 S. Hoyne Avenue, in Chicago.
The CCHHS would utilize the premises to house county-funded Illinois Department of Human
Services eligibility staff which receive and process medical assistance applications for CCHHS
patients. A significant portion of the work that this eligibility staff will perform is related to an early
expansion of Medicaid to cover Cook County individuals who are currently uninsured and will
become eligible for Medicaid in 2014 under the Affordable Care Act.
The Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS), in collaboration with the Cook
County Board and the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS) have requested an
1115 [Medicaid] waiver from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), effective
July of 2012. While this waiver application was written with a focus on Cook County, the waiver
could provide for any willing county in Illinois to participate if HFS and CMS standards are met.
This waiver will allow CCHHS to decrease its uninsured population and provide Medicaid
reimbursement funds to improve the quality, coordination, and cost-effectiveness of the care it
provides.
The IMD has tentatively agreed to lease the property to the County subject to final negotiation of
the following terms and conditions.
● Term:
● Space Occupied:
● Base Rent:
● Operating Expenses:

● Improvements:

● Funding:

An initial term of no more than five years.
Approximately 9,400 square feet.
No more than $12.00 per square foot / $112,000 annually.
Tenant would be responsible for all costs of operating the
Premises including utilities, security, custodial and snow removal
for the Building. IMD will perform structural repairs to the building
as necessary.
Tenant would be responsible for the cost of build-out to the
Premises as required, prior to occupancy, to accommodate
tenant’s use. A preliminary estimate for build-out is $280,000.
Other costs for communications and connectivity will also be
incurred to bring the space to full operations capability.
The 1115 waiver, including costs related to this lease would be
entirely funded by local county resources and federal matching
funds for eligible services.

Upon receiving authorization from the CCHHS Board to proceed, a Lease Agreement will be
finalized with the IMD and submitted for approval by the Cook County Board of Commissioners at
the next available meeting.

Page 26 of 28

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
June 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #9

Page 27 of 28

  

Amendment 2 to the Intergovernmental Agreement
between
the Cook County Health Hospitals System,
the Cook County Board of Commissioners, and
the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services

Summary

This intergovernmental agreement (IGA) amendment will permit implementation of
several key components of the ?early expansion? Section 1 115 Medicaid waiver
proposal currently under review by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS). The original IGA being amended was approved by the System Board in
March, 2009, and was amended (?Amendment in March, 2011.

Specifically, Amendment 2:

1. Permits the System to seek reimbursement for services rendered by
community partner providers for waiver enrollees;

2. Specifies a process by which the System will be reimbursed by a
?per member per month? (PMPM) methodology for waiver enrollees;

3. Modifies the section wherein the System will reimburse the State of Illinois
for ?on?site" enrollment office expenses, and other costs related to waiver

implementation; and

4. Permits data sharing between the Department of Healthcare and Family
Services HF and the System;

The provisions of this IGA are consistent with the requirements of HBSOO7, as
signed into law by Governor Quinn on june 14, 2012.

APPROVED

JUN 2 92012

   
 

 

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE 
HEALTH AND 

 

Page 28 of 28

