Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System held Tuesday, January 17, 2012 at the hour of 9:30 A.M., at 1900 West Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Muñoz called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH and Directors Benn Greenspan, PhD, MPH, FACHE and
Heather O’Donnell, JD, LLM (3)
Board Chairman Warren L. Batts (Ex-Officio Member) and Director Hon. Jerry Butler

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – System Chief Compliance Officer
Helen Haynes – System Associate General Counsel
Jeff Kitchen – McGladrey & Pullen, LLP
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer

II.

Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Thomas Schroeder – System Director of Internal Audit

Public Speakers
Chairman Muñoz asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none.

III.

Report from System Corporate Compliance Officer (Attachment #1)
A. Activity Report
Cathy Bodnar, System Corporate Compliance Officer, presented the Annual Report of the Office of
Corporate Compliance. Also presented was the Activity Report and projected Work Plan for FY2012.
The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Ms. Bodnar informed the Committee of a current Compliance issue, involving an individual identification
information breach that recently occurred. The System’s Human Resources Department received a
request from a County department/agency for copies of dual employment forms on file for physicians. A
box containing copies of these forms was to be shipped from the System’s Human Resources Department
to the downtown County Building; however, this box was not delivered, and was lost. Some of the dual
employment forms contained the physicians’ Social Security numbers. As a result of this incident, the
System has provided one year of credit monitoring for each of the physicians whose forms contained their
Social Security number; for those physicians whose form did not contain their Social Security number,
information was provided regarding how to set up a fraud alert warning within their credit account.
Chairman Muñoz inquired regarding the timeline for electronic Compliance training for employees. Ms.
Bodnar stated that it is planned to be rolled-out in the first quarter of 2012. She expects that the roll-out to
the population should be completed by February; it should be up and running no later than June 2012. In
response to Chairman Muñoz’ inquiry regarding the ramifications for those employees who do not comply
with the Compliance training, Ms. Bodnar stated that a policy is needed to address that issue.
Page 1 of 38

 Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 2

III.

Report from System Corporate Compliance Officer (continued)
Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved to receive and file the
Annual Report of the Office of Corporate Compliance. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

**Report from System Director of Internal Audit (Attachment #1)
A. Activity Report
Tom Schroeder, System Director of Internal Audit, provided a report on the following subjects: 2011
Internal Audit Accomplishments; and review of Internal Audit’s Charter. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
Mr. Schroeder noted that the Internal Audit Charter was approved and adopted in March 2010. The
Charter should be reviewed periodically and revised as needed; it is then signed-off by the Chair of the
Committee, Chief Executive Officer and the Director of Internal Audit. Mr. Schroeder did not
recommend any revisions to the Charter at this time; he stated that he would forward the Charter to the
respective parties for their signature.

V.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Update from RSM McGladrey & Pullen, LLP on FY2011 Audit activities
Jeff Kitchen, Partner at McGladrey & Pullen, LLP, provided an update on FY2011 Audit activities. He
stated that the kick-off meeting for the Health portion of the Audit is planned for this Thursday. The plan
is to kick-off internal control-related testing and reviews in early February, and to begin the audit of
substantive account balances in mid to late February; that work will continue on through the end of
March. The objective is to have a very solid draft of the Health System financial statements by mid-April,
in order to reach the County’s goal of having FY2011 County-wide audited financial statements issued by
the end of May 2012.
Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, referenced consultant services that had been provided to the
System in the recent past by the staff of RSM McGladrey; he requested that the McGladrey staff
responsible for the audit work be independent from and not include those McGladrey staff who were
previously involved in the consultant work.

VI.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, November 29, 2011
Director O’Donnell, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to accept the minutes of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of November 29, 2011. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections V, VI and VII

Page 2 of 38

 Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, January 17, 2012
Page 3

VII. Closed Session Discussion/Information Items
A. **Report from System Director of Internal Audit
B. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Director Greenspan, seconded by Chairman Muñoz, moved to recess the regular session
and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exception to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public
body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(28), regarding “meetings between
internal or external auditors and governmental audit committees, finance committees, and
their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal control weaknesses, identification
of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of the United States of
America.” THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Muñoz declared that the closed session was adjourned.
reconvened into regular session.

The Committee

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Muñoz declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 3 of 38

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
January 17, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 4 of 38

  
 

Corporate
Compliance
Office

Annual Report – FY 2011
December 2010 – November 2011

January 10, 2012

Page 5 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011

Table of Contents 
I. 

Introduction ......................................................................................................................................... 3 

II. 

Building Blocks – Setting Infrastructure .................................................................................................. 3 

III. 

Being Present – Communication – Fostering Transparency ..................................................................... 4 

A. 

Communication Strategy ....................................................................................................................... 4 

B. 

Communication Channels ..................................................................................................................... 5 

C.  Corporate Compliance Intranet Site ....................................................................................................... 5 
D.  Focused Efforts .................................................................................................................................... 6 
IV. 

Compliance Program Structure: Our Performance of the Elements ........................................................... 6 

A. 

Policies and Procedures ....................................................................................................................... 6 

B. 

Compliance Office and Committees ....................................................................................................... 8 

C.  Education and Training ....................................................................................................................... 11 
D.  Effective Lines of Communication – Receiving and Responding to Complaints ........................................ 12 
E.

Enforcing Standards ........................................................................................................................... 14 

F. 

Auditing and Monitoring ...................................................................................................................... 15 

G.  Risk Assessment ............................................................................................................................... 15 
V. 

Looking Ahead ................................................................................................................................... 16 

 
  
 
 
 
 

Page 2

 
Page 6 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
I.

Introduction

In Fiscal Year (FY) 2009, Cook County Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS) re-established the Corporate
Compliance Office. The motivation for creating this office was to bring a System perspective to Compliance related
activities. Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC was appointed the Chief Compliance Officer in September, 2009.
This Annual Report presents the activities of the second year of the System Corporate Compliance Office and
demonstrates the effectiveness of our program by looking at the infrastructure, communication strategy, and
evaluating the program using the seven (7) Compliance Program Elements of a comprehensive compliance program
delineated by the Office of Inspector General (OIG) in 1998.
CCHHS has established a Mission, “To deliver integrated health services with dignity and respect regardless of a
patient’s ability to pay; foster partnerships with other health providers and communities to enhance the health of the
public; and advocate for policies which promote and protect the physical, mental and social well being of the people
of Cook County.”
The Corporate Compliance Office supports the CCHHS’ Mission with a departmental Mission:
To uphold the mission, vision, and core goals of Cook County Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS) by
establishing and supporting a system-wide culture of honesty and respect to guide everyone’s actions by
 Developing standards
 Increasing awareness
 Promoting honest behavior and professional responsibility
through education, awareness, and shared accountability that promotes compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, and System policies.
CCHHS has established a Vision, “In support of its public health mission, CCHHS will be recognized locally,
regionally, and nationally – and by patients and employees – as a progressively evolving model for an accessible,
integrated, patient-centered, and fiscally-responsible healthcare system focused on assuring high-quality care and
improving the health of the residents of Cook County.”
To support CCHHS’ Vision, the Vision of the Corporate Compliance Office is:
To ensure safeguards are in place for our patients, our staff, and the public at large, the Corporate Compliance
Program will be a resource to everyone affiliated with Cook County Health & Hospitals System.
(For the purposes of this statement, “affiliated” is defined as all employees, medical staff, house staff, Board
members, volunteers, students, patients, partners, consultants, agency personnel, and vendors.)
II. Building Blocks – Setting Infrastructure
The Annual Report begins with a look at the activities of the Program that comprise our efforts to establish an
infrastructure to deliver a comprehensive compliance program. As noted earlier, the System Compliance Program
was established in 2009 with the hiring of a Chief Compliance Officer. The Program added a Compliance
Coordinator in February, 2010 and an Associate Compliance Officer in September, 2010. Attempts to hire a System
Privacy Officer were conducted throughout FY10 and into FY11. A qualified candidate was selected early in FY11,
unfortunately the candidate subsequently declined the appointment. At that point an external recruiter was engaged.
Recruitment activities ceased in early summer 2011, when qualified candidates were not forthcoming. Critical
examination of the functionality of Corporate Compliance operations, reviewing both the internal and external

Page 3

 
Page 7 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
environment and the candidate market, has occurred. Modifications to the existing departmental structure are being
considered.
Current Compliance Organization Chart
CCHHS
Board of Directors

Audit & Compliance
Committee of the
Board

CCHHS
Chief Executive Officer

Chief Compliance
Officer

System Compliance
Coordinator

Associate
Compliance Officer

Interim Privacy
Officer
(PT consultant)

Corporate Compliance Program Scope
The CCHHS activities that fall into the Corporate Compliance Scope were established as:
 Accurate Books and Records
 Anti-kickback
 Conflict of Interest
 Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA)
 False Claims
 Healthcare Fraud and Abuse
 Marketing and Purchasing
 Patient Privacy, Confidentiality, and Security (HIPAA)
 Political Activity (including Shakman Compliance)
 Research
 Theft
III. Being Present – Communication – Fostering Transparency
A. Communication Strategy
Developed an organizational communication strategy to increase employee awareness of the following
topics:
 Definition and scope of compliance;
 Staff conduct (Standards of Conduct);
 Compliance toll-free hot line awareness;
 Responsibility to report potential/actual issues;
Page 4

 
Page 8 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011





Consequences of not reporting;
Non-retaliation process;
Accessibility of the Compliance Officer and Program; and
Privacy, Confidentiality, and Security.

B. Communication Channels
Communicated about general corporate compliance information, toll-free hot line, HIPAA Protected Health
Information (PHI), HIPAA privacy and security, HIPAA sanctions, political activity prohibitions, and Shakman
compliance in multiple formats:
 Posters;
 Flyers;
 Payroll inserts;
 Compliance Program business cards;
 Pens with the compliance hot line number;
 Privacy Protector wrist bands;
 Compliance Program magnets;
 Attendance/presence at team meetings; and
 Continual update of Compliance Intranet site.
C. Corporate Compliance Intranet Site
Optimized intranet webpage to ensure employees and physicians have easy access to guidance and tools.

Page 5

 
Page 9 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
The content of the compliance intranet page continues to evolve with the goal to promote transparency. The page
includes the information that follows:
 Contact Information;
 Compliance News Nationally;
 Compliance and Ethics Awareness Documentation;
 Audit and Compliance Committee Meetings – Agenda and Minutes;
 Links to System Policies and Procedures;
 Cook County Government Documentation and Forms; and
 Graphic Illustrating Issues Brought to the Attention of Corporate Compliance.
D. Focused Efforts
Throughout FY11, Corporate Compliance provided support and subject matter expertise for various
compliance issues to many departments and affiliates. The list that follows identifies a number of specific
areas:
 Internal Audit
 CCHHS Board of Directors
 Finance
 Senior Leadership
 Emergency Department
 Operational Leadership
 Interventional Radiology
 Office of the General Counsel
 Marketing and Public Relations
 Health Information Management
 Pastoral Care Services
 Human Resources
 Volunteer Services
 Information Services
IV. Compliance Program Structure: Our Performance of the Elements
Element 1
The development and distribution of written standards of conduct, as well as written policies and procedures that
promote the hospital’s commitment to compliance (e.g., by including adherence to compliance as an element in
evaluating managers and employees) and that address specific areas of potential fraud, such as claims development
and submission processes, code gaming, and financial relationships with physicians and other healthcare
professionals.
A. Policies and Procedures
1. Developed and Implemented System Policies
Progress continued on drafting and vetting System policies related to compliance with governance,
HIPAA, conflict of interest, and general Compliance. The following policies were approved in FY11:
00.01.00 Policy Management
01.02.40 Privacy Management
00.02.00 Conflict of Interest
01.02.10 Sending and Receiving Faxes
01.02.16 HIPAA: Requesting Alternative Communications
01.02.18 HIPAA: Use or Disclosure of PHI for Research
01.02.20 Social Media: Workforce Use and Conduct
01.02.21 Medical Records: Subpoena Request
Page 6

 
Page 10 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
01.02.45 HIPAA: Business Associates
01.02.55 HIPAA: Definitions
01.03.40 Reporting and Non-Retaliation
In response to amendments in HIPAA as a result of the HITECH Act, the CCHHS Notice of Privacy
Practices was updated. New Notices are available to our patients in hard copy at our facilities, on our
website, and within the 1st Quarter FY 2012, new Notice of Privacy Practices posters will be replaced
throughout the System.
2. Work Plan Activities – Ensuring Compliance with Policies and Procedures
In FY11, Corporate Compliance worked with operational areas to assess compliance with our
procedures and, in certain instances, assist in the development of new policies.


Sanction Screening Checks
Addressed regulatory requirements to avoid employing, engaging, contracting or agreeing with
any individual or entity who is excluded or “sanctioned” from participation in a federal
healthcare program or who is debarred from participation in federal procurement or nonprocurement programs for the provision of goods or services. This is an ongoing project for
both CCHHS employees and vendors initiated in early FY10.



Business Associate Agreements
Updated Business Associate Agreements in compliance with both the HIPAA Privacy and
Security Rules and amended in the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical
Health (HITECH) Act of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. All active CCHHS
vendors classified as Business Associates were required to endorse the updated Business
Associate Agreement.



Information System Security Plan Review
Provided input into a global, system-wide information security plan developed internally by
CCHHS’ Information Security Officer, the plan uses government guidance as a foundation. It
incorporates the three (3) essential elements: operational, technical, and managerial to
ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of healthcare and patient data.



Proactive Coding Review – Radiology Procedures
Performed a review of documentation and independently assigned codes, compared the
codes assigned to the documentation, and identified variances. Determined documentation
does exist; additional detailed documentation is needed to improve coding specificity.
Communicated findings to the providers within the operational area; operations subsequently,
requested a follow up review.



Proactive Coding Review – Chemotherapy
Partnered with Internal Audit to provide coding compliance expertise. Performed a review of
documentation and independently assigned codes, compared the codes assigned to the
documentation, and identified variances. Determined documentation does exist; process
improvement needed for uniform, detailed, timely documentation to meet the coding/billing
requirements. In the sample reviewed, coding performed by coders in Health Information
Management (HIM) paralleled Corporate Compliance coding. Challenges exist with
Page 7

 
Page 11 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
medication coding which is not assigned by HIM. Finance aware of the challenges and
revisions to the workflow are in process.


Unlawful Political Activity (Shakman)
Transitioned incident reporting from CCHHS Corporate Compliance to Cook County’s Office of
the Independent Inspector General. The transition was part of a county-wide effort to
systematize Unlawful Political Discrimination (UPD). This transition factors into the effort to
sunset the Compliance Administrator.
Directly involved in the dissemination of
communications to support this effort and provided system-wide education.



Record Retention
Drafted System Record Retention Policy using individual policies throughout the System and
the parameters set forth by the Illinois Local Records Act. The critical element of the policy is
the actual retention matrix which will supplement the policy and provide retention guidance to
the System. Using the Illinois Hospital Association’s Record Retention Reference and the
current retention material filed with the state of Illinois, an authoritative source document is in
development.



Patient’s Bill of Rights and Responsibilities
Merged key elements from Patient’s Bill of Rights and Responsibilities documents found within
individual business units to develop a uniform, system-wide, patient-centered document. The
end product was reviewed in accordance with regulatory guidance to ensure compliance.
Provided content to Marketing and Public Relations team for brochure and signage
development.



Service Animals
Developed a uniform, system-wide, patient-centered policy. Incorporated updated regulatory
guidance and key elements from policies found throughout the organization. Provided
language to Marketing and Public Relations team for signage development.



Standards of Conduct
Drafted an updated Standards of Conduct that incorporated Cook County’s Ethics Ordinance.
The elements of the CCHHS Code meets or exceeds the Ethics Ordinance elements. At
present, engaging stakeholders to provide input into the document.

Element 2
The designation of a Chief Compliance Officer and other appropriate bodies, e.g., a corporate compliance committee,
charged with the responsibility of operating and monitoring the compliance program, and who reports directly to the
CEO and the governing body.
B. Compliance Office and Committees
Cathy Bodnar, the Chief Compliance Officer, reports to both the CCHHS Board Audit & Compliance
Committee and the CCHHS Chief Executive Officer. In turn, the CCHHS Board Audit & Compliance
Committee and the CCHHS Chief Executive Officer each report to the CCHHS Board of Directors.

Page 8

 
Page 12 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011

CCHHS Board 
of Directors

Audit & 
Compliance 
Committee 
of the Board

CCHHS Chief 
Executive 
Officer

Chief 
Compliance 
Officer

The primary duties of the Chief Compliance Officer were established to include the following:
 Serving as an internal consultant and resource for compliance matters;
 Overseeing and monitoring the ongoing functions of the Corporate Compliance Program;
 Participating in regular, CCHHS-wide risk assessments to understand potential vulnerabilities;
 Serving as the Privacy Officer for CCHHS to assure compliance with HIPAA regarding protection of
patient health information;
 Reporting on a regular basis to the CCHHS governing bodies;
 Periodically revising the Corporate Compliance Program, with input from the Audit & Compliance
Committee of the Board of Directors and Executive Management in light of changes directed to the
needs of CCHHS and the laws and policies of federal, state, and county bodies;
 Developing, coordinating and participating in training programs that focus on the elements of the
Corporate Compliance Program and providing training such that workforce members are
knowledgeable of and comply with the Standards of Conduct, compliance policies, laws and
regulations;
 Coordinating and overseeing compliance auditing and monitoring activities;
 Responding to reports of issues or suspected violations related to compliance by independently
investigating these matters, as appropriate, and working with department managers, Human
Resources, and General Counsel in the determination of corrective action that must be taken;
 Assuring, through consultation with Human Resources and General Counsel, that the CCHHS
disciplinary policies and actions are applied fairly, equitably, appropriately, and consistently; and
 Developing policies and programs that encourage CCHHS personnel to report suspected fraud and
other improprieties without fear of retaliation or retribution.

Page 9

 
Page 13 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
The Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors advises the Board regarding the
implementation of standards and processes to assure professional responsibility and honest behavior,
compliance with regulatory requirements, and risk management.
An Audit & Compliance Steering Committee was established late in FY10. The primary objectives and
responsibilities of this internal group of organizational leaders are to:
 Provide guidance to the corporate compliance and internal audit programs by promoting and
supporting a culture of professional responsibility, honesty, and respect;
 Assist in the strategic direction of the organization with regard to compliance and internal audit
matters;
 Provide advice and guidance to the Chief Compliance Officer and the System Director of Internal
Audit in the accomplishment of his/her duties;
 Monitor the effectiveness of the corporate compliance and internal audit programs;
 Assist the Chief Compliance Officer and the System Director of Internal Audit in analyzing the
healthcare industry compliance, financial, legal and risk environment and developing policies,
procedures and systems to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines;
 Review the System’s annual corporate compliance and internal audit work plans;
 Review issues, concerns and trends identified internally and externally, in particular those identified
as presenting a significant risk to the organization;
 Recommend to the Chief Compliance Officer and System Director of Internal Audit and the Audit
and Compliance Committee and the Board, as appropriate, actions or measures that it deems
appropriate to improve the effectiveness of the corporate compliance and internal audit program;
 Carry out other duties that the Audit and Compliance Committee or the Board may delegate to the
Committees; and
 Review and reassess this Charter every two years or more frequently as circumstances warrant, to
ensure it remains relevant to the overall purpose of the Committee.
The Ad Hoc Work Group on Corporate Compliance was charged with providing direction to the System
Compliance Program.
Responsibilities include providing oversight on unrestricted compliance program activities; this
includes, but is not limited to, guidance on the mission and vision of the compliance program, the
Standards of Conduct, compliance communications, and education and training for the community
in general along with CCHHS personnel.
The Group consisted of both internal and external members. The Group did not meet as a whole
within FY 2011. The inactivity now triggers an evaluation of its ongoing existence. The Audit and
Compliance Steering Committee is comprised of internal leaders. Therefore consideration should
be given to the assembly of external leaders to provide an additional form of a check and balance.
In addition to the committee relationships:
 A formal cooperative collaboration agreement between the CCHHS Office of Corporate
Compliance and the County’s Office of the Independent Inspector General (OIIG) was
implemented in FY11. This partnership provides investigative support to Corporate Compliance.
Page 10

 
Page 14 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
Element 3
The development and implementation of regular, effective education and training programs for all affected
employees.
C. Education and Training
1. New Employee Orientation
 Presented an “Introduction to Corporate Compliance and HIPAA”, at over twenty (20) New
Employee Orientation sessions and five (5) Volunteer Sessions.
 Separately trained new resident and fellows on Corporate Compliance and Privacy. Developed online material to provide more detailed Compliance and Privacy education which included a review
of Standards of Conduct, and an electronic attestation to follow our policies, procedures, and
compliance with our Standards.
2. Targeted Education
Provided audience specific education based on identified risks as follows:
 Provided specialty HIPAA education to operational areas:
 Cook County Department of Public Health
 Human Resources
 Revenue Cycle
 JHSH Patient Relations
 CCHHS Providers at Oak Forest Hospital
 Department of Psychiatry
 Sent a broadcast message in partnership with Risk Management regarding the use of e-mail
for transmitting Protected Health Information to all users of the CCHHS voice mail system.
 Provided training on Unlawful Political Discrimination to department directors and providers
throughout the System.
3. Unlawful Political Discrimination (UPD)
Presented county-wide UPD training to organizational leadership and disseminated a county-wide log
to further the goal of eliminating unlawful political discrimination in government and to foster a
transparent, honest and fair employment process.
4. Interim Annual Compliance Education
Developed the content for a computer-based training module for Compliance and Privacy. Challenges
presented with tracking and reporting. The training will be updated and migrated to a new electronic
learning platform within FY12.
5. Computer-Based Training
Issued an RFP, selected and contracted with a vendor to provide content for Compliance and Privacy
training. The product has a platform to not only house the Compliance and Privacy content but also to
house any CCHHS content. Once implemented, system-wide organizational training will be managed
in one central repository.
Page 11

 
Page 15 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
At the close of FY11, the following activities were completed to position CCHHS for a launch of
computer-based training in 1st Quarter FY 2012.
 Identified the human resources data requirements,
 Determined first modules to be deployed,
 Determined additional subjects/departments to roll-out computer-based training, and
 Customized courses to meet CCHHS Compliance and Privacy needs.
Element 4
The maintenance of a process, such as a hot line, to receive complaints, and the adoption of procedures to protect
the anonymity of complainants and to protect whistleblowers from retaliation.
D. Effective Lines of Communication – Receiving and Responding to Complaints
1. Infrastructure Activities
a. Assisted our patients, employees, and physicians, by retaining the following mechanisms for
contacting Corporate Compliance through
 A toll-free hot line telephone number answered by a third party to preserve anonymity
if desired. The caller is given a code number related to the matter, and can call back
or check the website using that code number to review comments and updates.
 A separate toll-free telephone number for privacy breaches.
 Two (2) e-mail addresses for Compliance (compliance@cookcountyhhs.org) and
Privacy (privacy@cookcountyhhs.org).
b. Established relationships and engaged internal and external resources to assist with
investigations throughout the CCHHS and Cook County.
c. Identified trends and patterns to mitigate organizational risks.
d. Presented trends and patterns to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board.
2. Process for Responding to Issues and Complaints
Retained process for issue, complaint management, and resolution as follows:
a. Investigate the allegation and confirm the details,
b. Determine the area affected,
c. Collaborate with appropriate departments,
d. Review and follow organizational policy, federal, state, and county regulations related to the
incident for mitigation and remediation. These may include further auditing of documentation,
sending a notification and apology letter to the patient, notifying the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid (CMS), notifying the media, and, mitigating harm to the patient (to the extent
possible),
e. Determine and execute a corrective action plan, and
f. Respond to the complainant.

Page 12

 
Page 16 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
3. Responding to Complaints from the US Department of Health and Human Services Office for Civil
Rights (OCR)
Received two (2) complaints from OCR in FY11; each compliant alleged unauthorized disclosure of
Protected Health Information. Corporate Compliance conducted detailed investigations for each
complaint. For one of the complaints, it is the CCHHS position that the disclosure was permitted under
HIPAA and for the other, confirmed that an unauthorized disclosure did occur. In this instance,
mitigation to remediate the situation occurred.
4. Reporting
Issue categories have been identified to allow the Program to most accurately measure compliance
with the Standards of Conduct.
 Accurate Books and Records
 Conflict of Interest
 False Claims
 Healthcare Fraud and Abuse
 HIPAA Privacy, Confidentiality and Security
 Human Resources
 Political Activity
 Research
 Theft
5. FY11 Statistics
Conflict of Interest
11%

False Claims
4%

Accurate Books
4%
Research
0.5%

HIPAA
44%

Political
3%
Fraud
5%
Theft
2%

FY11 Issue Count by Category
Privacy (HIPAA)
Conflict of Interest
Human Resources

106
27
25

Other
16.5%

HR
10%

Healthcare Fraud
Accurate Books
False Claims

11
9
9

Political Activity
Theft
Research

8
6
1

Other

At the start of FY11, 10 issues remained active or in process from FY 2010. Therefore, a total of 252 issues
were active within FY11. At 44%, Privacy (HIPAA) was the largest reactive issue category in FY11. There
were 20 confirmed breaches. The breaches resulted in approximately 32,400 patient notifications. The
majority, over 32,000, were a result of a breach by a Business Associate.
Page 13

 
Page 17 of 38

40

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
Of the 252 active issues, 237 or 94% were resolved. Of the 237 resolved issues, 16% or 40 issues were
referred for follow-up and management outside Corporate Compliance.

15

237
Issues
Resolved

74%

Managed Internally
Partnered with Another Area
Referred to Another Area

4%
16%

Element 5
The development of a system to respond to allegations of improper/ illegal activities and the enforcement of
appropriate disciplinary action against employees who have violated internal compliance policies, applicable statutes,
regulations or Federal health care program requirements.
E. Enforcing Standards
Broadened the scope of Standards enforcement through:
1. Information System Security Policies. Provided guidance and insights to the newly appointed
Information Services Officer (ISO). Addressed regulatory requirements to the safeguarding of
electronic Protected Health Information (ePHI). Reviewed Information System Security Handbooks
along with an updated Security Standards/Rules of Behavior.
2. Business Associate Agreements. Compliance contacted all current vendors that qualify as Business
Associates under HIPAA and HITECH and requested execution of an updated Business Associate
Agreement.
3. Conflict of Interest. Provided guidance and developed Conflict Management Plans to preserve the
integrity of the decision-making process.
4. Breach Notification. Responsible for the investigation of all instances of lost or stolen patient
information, including paper and electronic. For all instances in which the data loss constitutes a
breach as defined by the Breach Notification for Unsecured Protected Health Information; Interim Final
Rule, the breach notification requirements to the patient, the Secretary of HHS, and the media are
completed. Corrective action plans are created and executed to improve the processes and counsel
the physicians and employees involved.
5. Investigations Resulting in Employee Related Corrective Actions. HIPAA and Conflict of Interest
complaints were investigated and resulted in employee guidance being provided.

Page 14

 
Page 18 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
Element 6
The use of audits and/or other evaluation techniques to monitor compliance and assist in the reduction of identified
problem area.
F. Auditing and Monitoring
The Corporate Compliance Program conducted proactive coding audits using the following methodology:
1. Determine the area in need of a focused review
2. Identify the time frame and sample size
3. Conduct review
 “Blind” review of documentation for coding accuracy based on medical record documentation
to independently assign codes
 Compare blind review to data actually coded by HIM (soft-coded) or Charge Master (hardcoded) and data billed. Compare the codes assigned to the documentation
 Identify variances
 Identify strengths and weaknesses in process to mitigate risk
4. Communicate the variance to the operational area(s)
Element 7
The investigation and remediation of identified systemic problems and the development of policies addressing the
non-employment or retention of sanctioned individuals.
G. Risk Assessment
Addressed previously identified risks and challenges to meeting the standards of an effective compliance
program. Activities highlighted in this report minimized risk through the introduction and enforcement of
policies and standards, proactive auditing, education, and issue investigations with corrective action plans
as appropriate.
The course of activities in FY11 has led to the identification of specific risks. Some of these risks may affect
our patients. The following risks were identified for further assessment in FY12:
 Securing Protected Health Information in electronic and paper format through encryption and
secure storage devices.
 Training and obtaining appropriate storage of files containing Protected Health Information
Transporting paper for individual and departmental use through CCHHS buildings, our educational
and district partners of Rush and UIC, and off-campus.
 Managing clinical revenue for both the facility/technical component and the professional fee
component.
 Assessing Pharmaceutical pricing and billing.
 Ensuring appropriate coding and billing practices as Revenue Cycle increases claim generation.

Page 15

 
Page 19 of 38

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance Office
ANNUAL REPORT – FY 2011
V. Looking Ahead
With a solid foundation established, the Corporate Compliance Program will focus on analysis and risk reduction
related to areas of compliance, implementation of System policies and procedures, and realization of the annual
compliance education plan.
These priorities have been established:
 Continue to serve as a resource to all our patients, our staff, and the public at large.
 Continue to investigate all complaints brought to the attention of the Program.
 Continue to perform proactive auditing and monitoring for healthcare services, in both professional and
facility/technical areas, patient privacy and confidentiality, and policy compliance.
 Continue to develop policies to promote compliance.
 Deploy system-wide annual compliance education using an e-Learning Management System.
 Deploy system-wide conflict of interest data collection tool for annual attestation and reporting changes
throughout the year.
 Implement System record retention policy and procedure.
 Publish and distribute an updated Standards of Conduct.
 Implement solutions aimed at identifying and resolving preventable risks.

Page 16

 
Page 20 of 38

 Corporate Compliance
Report

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC
Chief Compliance Officer

January 17, 2012

 

0" COOK COUNTY HEALTH
?2 8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM



 

 

Page 21 of 38

Objectives






To file the FY 2011 Corporate Compliance
Annual Report.
To briefly
f discuss recent activity.
To presentt th
T
the projected
j t dW
Work
k Pl
Plan
for FY 2012.

Page 22 of 38

 FY 2011 to FY 2010 Comparison
Compliance Issues (Reactive)
FY 2010

FY 2011

250
200
150
100

106

187

FY 2011

242

FY 2010

50
0
Reactive Issues

27

41

25
11

64
25

Patient Privacy, Confidentiality
and Security are consistently
our top issues.

Page 23 of 38

27

7

9

9

8

7

13

15

6
2

27

 Compliance Issues (Reactive)
242 Issues Opened in FY 2011

Accurate Books & Records
4%
Research
0.5%

Conflict of Interest
11%

False Claims
4%

HIPAA
44%

Political
3%
Fraud
5%
Theft
2%

Oth
Other
16.5%

HR
10%

FY 2011 Issue Count by Category
Privacy (HIPAA)

106

Healthcare Fraud 11

Political Activity 8

Conflict of Interest

27

Accurate Books

9

Theft

6

9

Research

1

Human Resources 25 False Claims

Page 24 of 38

Other 40

 Total Issues
At the start of FY 2011, 10 issues remained active or in process
from FY 2010. A total of 252 issues were active within FY 2011.

In FY 2010 - 69% were
managed in Compliance
----

Of the 252 active issues,
237 of 94% were resolved.

Of the 237 resolved
issues, 16% or 40
issues were referred
outside of Corporate
Compliance.

Page 25 of 38

In FY 2011 - 78% were
managed in Compliance

 Questions?

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
Oz HOSPITALS SYSTEM



 

 

Page 26 of 38

Current Issue

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
Oz HOSPITALS SYSTEM



 

 

Page 27 of 38

Compliance Work Plan (Proactive)
FY 2012 Proposed Goals
 C
Continue
ti
to
t serve as a resource to
t allll our patients,
ti t our staff,
t ff and
d
the public at large.
 Continue to investigate all complaints brought to the attention of the
Program.
 Continue to perform proactive auditing and monitoring for
healthcare services, in both professional and facility/technical
areas, patient privacy and confidentiality, and policy compliance.
 Continue to develop policies to promote compliance.
 Implement
p
solutions aimed at identifying
y g and resolving
gp
preventable
risks.

Page 28 of 38

 Compliance Work Plan (Proactive)
FY 2012 Proposed Goals (continued)
 D
Deploy
l system-wide
t
id annuall compliance
li
education
d
ti using
i an
Electronic Learning Management System.
 Publish and distribute an updated Standards of Conduct.
 Deploy system-wide conflict of interest data collection tool for
annual attestation and reporting changes throughout the year.
 Implement
p
System
y
record retention policy
p
y and procedure.
p

Page 29 of 38

 Questions?

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
Oz HOSPITALS SYSTEM



 

 

Page 30 of 38

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
January 17, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 31 of 38

 Internal Audit Report

January 17, 2012

 

    

coon coumv Hun"
?2 HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

Page 32 of 38

Objective
> To review 2011 Internal Audit Accomplishments
> To review Internal Audit’s Charter
> Closed Session

Page 33 of 38

 2011 In Review
> Completed transition to a CCHHS staffed internal audit function
from an outsourced model

> Completed a risk assessment and developed a 12-18 month
internal audit plan based on the risk assessment

> Substantial progress made towards completing the internal audit
plan

> Other – staff development, audit directors roundtable

Page 34 of 38

 Internal Audit Charter
Significant
g
Sections ((complete
p
charter included))
1. Mission
2. Role
3. Professional Standards
4. Authority
5 Independence
5.
6. Accountability
7. Audit Scope
8. Responsibility

Page 35 of 38

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS)
Internal Audit Charter

January 17, 2012

Mission
Internal Audit is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add
value and improve an organization’s operations. It helps an organization accomplish its
objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the
effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
Internal Audit will align its activities with the mission and strategy of CCHHS. Internal Audit
will promote good controls and serve as an educational resource to its stakeholders with respect
to risk management, control and governance processes. Internal Audit will maintain a
collaborative approach to its work practices and will ensure its work product provides value
added outputs for its stakeholders.
Role
 Internal Audit’s role is determined by the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and
Compliance Committee.
 Responsibilities are defined by the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and
Compliance Committee.
Professional Standards
 Internal Audit will govern themselves by adherence to the Institute of Internal Audit’s
“Code of Ethics”. http://www.theiia.org/guidance/standards-and-guidance/ippf/code-ofethics/english/
 The Institute’s “International Professional Practice Framework” shall constitute the operating
procedures for the department. These documents are considered an addendum to this Charter.
http://www.theiia.org/guidance/standards-and-guidance/ippf/standards/
 Internal Audit will adhere to all CCHHS policies and procedures and all Internal Audit
procedure manuals.
Authority
Internal Audit is authorized to:
 Have unrestricted access to all functions, records, property and personnel.
 Have free, open, and timely access to the Chief Executive Officer and the CCHHS Board of
Directors through its Audit and Compliance Committee.
 Allocate department resources, set frequencies, select subjects, determine scope of work and
apply the techniques required to achieve audit objectives.
 Obtain the necessary assistance of personnel in the organization when performing audits, as
well as other specialized services from within or outside the organization.
Independence
 All audit activities shall remain free of influence by any element in the organization,
including matters of audit scope, procedures, frequency, timing, or report content, required to
permit the independence required to render objective reports.
 Internal auditors shall have no operational responsibility or authority over any activities they
review.
 Internal auditors shall not develop or install systems or procedures, prepare records or engage
in any other activity that they would normally audit.

Page 36 of 38

 


Internal Audit reports functionally to the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and
Compliance Committee and administratively to the Chief Executive Officer.
Internal Audit periodically reports to the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and
Compliance Committee and to CCHHS Senior Leadership as outlined in the section on
Accountability.

Accountability
Internal Audit is accountable to the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and Compliance
Committee and to CCHHS Senior Leadership to:
 Report significant issues related to the process for controlling the activities of the
organization, including potential improvements to those processes, and provide information
concerning such issues through resolution.
 Provide information periodically on the status and results of the annual audit plan and the
sufficiency of internal audit resources.
 Coordinate with and provide oversight of other control and monitoring functions.
Audit Scope
The scope of the work of Internal Audit is to determine whether the network of risk management,
control and governance processes, as designed and represented by management, is adequate and
functioning in a manner to ensure:









Risks are identified and managed.
Interaction with various governance groups occurs as needed.
Significant financial, managerial and operating information is accurate, reliable and timely.
Employee’s actions are in compliance with policies, standards, procedures and applicable
laws and regulations.
Resources are acquired economically, used efficiently, and adequately protected.
Programs, plans and objectives are achieved.
Quality and continuous improvement are fostered in control processes.
Significant legislative or regulatory issues impacting the organization are recognized and
addressed properly.

Responsibility
 Develop an annual audit plan using risk-based methodology, including any risk or control
concerns expressed by management, and submit the plan to the CCHHS Board of Directors
through its Audit and Compliance Committee and to CCHHS Senior Leadership for approval.
 Implement the audit plan and any special requests by the CCHHS Board of Directors, its
Audit and Compliance Committee, and CCHHS Senior Leadership and management.
 Maintain a professional audit staff capable of meeting the requirements of this Charter.
 Establish a quality assurance program whereby the director of internal audit assures the
operations of internal audit.
 Perform consulting services in addition to assurance services. Consulting services are defined
as “advisory and related client services activities, the nature and scope of which are agreed
with the client and which are intended to add value and improve the organization’s
governance, risk management and control processes without the internal auditor assuming
management responsibility.” Examples include counsel, advice, facilitation, and training.
 Evaluate and assess significant merging/consolidating functions and new or changing
services, processes, operations and control processes, coincident with their development,
implementation and/or expansion.

Page 37 of 38

 





Issue periodic reports to the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and Compliance
Committee and to CCHHS Senior Leadership summarizing results of internal audit activities.
Inform the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and Compliance Committee, and
CCHHS Senior Leadership of emerging trends and successful practices in internal auditing.
Provide the CCHHS Board of Directors through its Audit and Compliance Committee, and
CCHHS Senior Leadership a list of internal audit measurement goals and results.
Assist in the investigation of significant suspected fraudulent activities.
Consider the scope of work of the external auditors and regulators for the purpose of
providing optimal audit coverage at a reasonable cost.

__________________________
Dr. Luis Munoz
Audit and Compliance Committee Chair

__________________________
Dr. Ram Raju
Chief Executive Officer

_________________________
Tom Schroeder
Director of Internal Audit

Page 38 of 38

 