REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

 


AUGUST 22, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Warren L. Batts; Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell, MD,
Hon. Jerry Butler; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, MPH, 
Director Sister Sheila Lyne, Heather B. O'Donnell, JD, and Andrea Zopp (9)

Absent: Directors David Carvalho and Luis Munoz, MD, MPH (2)

Also Present: Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Jeff
McCutchan - Supervisor, Transactions and Health Law Division, Of?ce of the State?s
Attorney; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Office of the State?s
Attorney; David R. Small - Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of
Health Services

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on
Friday, August 22, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the
?fth floor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow. 

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of
members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System Board of Directors of Thursday, August 7, 2008 at 7:30 AM.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Thursday, August 7, 2008. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM INTERIM CPHEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

David R. Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Bureau [of Health Services, provided a status
report on several issues.

Mr. Small stated that on May 29th, there was a trauma site designation visit by the Illinois Department of
Public Health. Subsequently, a letter was received in July that re-designated the Trauma Center as a
Level One Trauma Center until December 31, 2010.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 22, 2008

 

Page 2

Mr. Small provided the Board with an update on the perinatal site visit by the Illinois Department of
Public Health (IDPH). He stated that a letter has been received from IDPH that indicates the continuing
certi?cation of the perinatal service. However, they will revisit in January, in order to ensure that
County?s action plan is in fact occurring.

Mr. Small then provided the Board with an update on recruitment efforts for a Corporate Compliance
Of?cer. He stated that over two dozen of letters of interest have been received from very highly quali?ed
individuals; within a week he will start to bring in the initial screened candidates for the ?rst round of
interviews.

Director Zopp asked Mr. Small what are the processes used in recruitment efforts which would ensure a
diverse slate, with regard to gender, ethnic and racial makeup.

Mr. Small responded that he expects to bring in highly quali?ed individuals who will help meet diversity
goals. 

Director Zopp asked whether Mr. Small or the County?s Bureau of Human Resources was reviewing
resumes.

Mr. Small responded that he was reviewing the resumes to ensure that the individuals meet the minimum
quali?cations before they are presented to the interview team. He is still forming the interview team;
some of the members of the team will be senior and mid-level managers, and some will have direct
auditing and ?nancial backgrounds. He will also confer with Jonathan Rothstein, Acting Chief of Cook
County?s Bureau of Human Resources, to determine which individuals from the County may be involved
in the process.

Director Zopp, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved that the Directors should be engaged
and participate in the selection process for key executive positions for the System.

Director Ansell suggested that the Human Resources Committee work with staff to deveIOp a policy
relating to diversity and recruitment efforts; additionally, he suggested that the Committee should review
the demographics of candidates after a search.

Chairman Batts added that the Board should receive a copy of the County?s policy to review.

Director Greenspan suggested that a member of the Audit Committee be involved in the selection process
for the position of Corporate Compliance Of?cer.

On the motion, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Mr. Small informed the Board of recruitment efforts with regard to the position of interim Chief Financial
Of?cer for Stroger HOSpital. He stated that Johnny Brown, Chief Operating Of?cer of Stroger Hospital;
John Morales, Cook County Comptroller and Acting Interim Chief Financial Of?cer of Stroger Hospital
of Cook County; Joseph Fratto, Chief of Staff for President Todd H. Stroger; and himself interviewed a
highly quali?ed individual willing to ?ll the interim position almost immediately. He stated that there
were dif?culties attracting the right kind of candidates for the permanent position through normal
advertising. He asked for direction from the Board to utilize an outside search ?rm to identify candidates
for the position of permanent Chief Financial Of?cer for Stroger Hospital.

Director Lyne inquired whether the Healthcare Financial Management Association (HFMA) had been
contacted with regard to the search.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 22, 2008

 

Page 3

Mr. Small responded that Pitt Calkin, Interim Chief Financial Officer for the Bureau of Health Services,
did speak with the HFMA, but they could not identify suitable candidates. He added that the National
Association of Public Hospitals and the American College of Healthcare Executives had also been
contacted, with the same results.

Chairman Batts suggested that the Human Resources Committee discuss at a policy level the Options
available for the System to use a search firm for recruitment for such positions.

Director Zopp inquired whether there is a budget for search ?rms.

Mr. Small responded in the negative; unexpended funds in other categories would need to be used for this
purpose.

Chairman Batts stated that the 2009 budget should have dollars appropriated for staf?ng purposes, so that
the Board does not have to get into budget line item issues going forward.

Director Zopp stated that it was her understanding that the recruiting function would be inserted into the
budget; discussions have taken place and will continue on the subject in the Human Resources
Committee.

Mr. Small concluded his presentation by providing the Board with an overview of changes and additions
to the Bureau?s website that are currently in process. He stated that the plan is to use the website more
effectively to communicate information to the public about the System.

Director Ansell indicated that he is distressed by the lack of data even at the most basic level; data on
average daily census and occupancy/length of stay by service should be received on at least a 
basis. He asked when the Board would be receiving this type of information.

Mr. Small responded that daily and weekly reports are produced internally with these types of data; he
indicated that a high level summary could be produced almost immediately. He stated that data through
last week could be emailed to the Board after the meeting. On a basis going forward, starting at
a meeting in September it can be provided for the Board?s review and discussion.

Director Lyne inquired whether information regarding Med Assets would be included.

Mr. Small replied that information on Med Assets is currently being reported to the Finance Committee
on a bi?Weekly basis, and is detailed in the Committee?s reports.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Audit Committee Meeting of 8-13-08

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Audit
Committee for the meeting of August 13, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 22, 2008

 

Page 4
COMMITTEE REPORTS (Continued)

Finance Committee Meeting of 8-18-08*
note: Contracts and Procurement Items were approved by the Finance
Committee at this meeting.

Director Golden, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved to approve the Report of the
Finance Committee for the meeting of August 18, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Human Resources Committee Meeting of 8-18-08*
note: Physician Salary Reclassi?cations were approved by the Human Resources
Committee at this meeting.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Human Resources
Committee for the meeting of August 18, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

OLD BUSINESS

Review and discussion of the initiation of a Strategic Planning Process.
Presented by Directors Greenspan and Golden

Director Golden began by stating that she and Director Greenspan had several meetings and met with
staff to discuss the data needed for the strategic planning process. As a result of these meetings, it was
apparent that there needs to be two planning processes: those relating to strategic planning and those
relating to stabilization. Although the focus for the immediate task relates to strategic planning, it was
observed that with regard to operational stabilization, there are other tasks which must alsobe addressed
right now. Immediate attention should be given to questions such as how to stop the ?nancial bleeding,
what are the rami?cations of budgetary cuts and what is the strategy for executive compensation.

Director Greenspan stated that in order to move forward, the System needs a process that has goals and a
realistic assessment of the environment. The workgroups have been assembled and will require several
months of intense work to develop the assessment upon which any objective-setting or strategy-setting
will be based. It is hoped that it will culminate around the same time that the permanent Chief Executive
Of?cer is committing to the System, after which the Board can implement the planning process
envisioned.

The ?rst meeting of key stakeholders would take place in October, at which time the process would be
presented. The next meeting of key stakeholders probably would not happen until 2009 when a new
Chief Executive Of?cer is in place. During the interim period, each month the culminating body of
information would be presented to the Board for their review.

Director Ansell stated that stabilization strategies and projects need to be de?ned and identi?ed quickly;
stabilization due to a likely budget de?cit should be the ?rst priority.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 22, 2008

Page 5

Director Lyne referenced prior work that had been done by at least two transition committees whose
reports were not that different.

Director Golden stated that the Blue Ribbon Report and the Transition Report could be used as a basis for
how the System operates right now, in order to ?x existing problems.

Chairman Batts inquired whether the Board would be given a model or timetable.

Director Greenspan replied in the af?rmative.

 

Proposed System Committee Meeting Dates for Calendar Year 2008

2008 Proposed Meeting Dates
Finance Committee
Presented by Finance Committee Chairman David Carvalho

 

Monday, August 18, 2008 10:00 A.M. - 1:00 P.M.
Thursday, August 28, 2008 10:00 A.M. - 1:00 P.M.
Friday, September 12, 2008 10:00 A.M. - 1:00 P.M.
Friday, September 26, 2008 10:00 A.M. - 1:00 P.M.
Friday, October 10, 2008 

10:00 P.M.
Thursday, October 23, 2008 10:00 A.M. - 1:00 P.M.
Friday, November 7, 2008 7:30 A.M. 10:00 A.M.
Monday, November 24, 2008 10:00 A.M. - 1:00 P.M.
Friday, December 12, 2008 10:00 A.M. - 1:00 RM.

2008 Proposed Meeting Dates
Human Resources Committee .
Presented by Human Resources Committee Chairman Andrea Zopp

Monday, August 18, 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.
Thursday, August 28, 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.
Friday, September 12, 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.
Friday, September 26, 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.
Thursday, October 9 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.
Thursday, October 23, 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.
Thursday, November 6, 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.
Monday, November 24, 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.

Friday, December 12, 2008 7:30 A.M. - 10:00 A.M.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 22, 2008

Page 6

Proposed System Committee Meeting Dates for Calendar Year 2008 (Continued)
2008 Proposed Meeting Dates

Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Presented by Quality and Patient Safety Committee Chairman David Ansell, MD, MPH

Tuesday, August 26, 2008 1:00 PM. 3:00 PM.

Tuesday, September 23, 2008 12:00 P.M. 2:00 RM.
Tuesday, October 21, 2008 12:00 PM. 2:00 P.M.
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 12:00 P.M. 2:00 PM.
Tuesday, December 23,2008 12:00 P.M. 2:00 P.M.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to approve the Proposed Meeting Dates for
the Finance, Human Resources and Quality and Patient Safety Committees, as amended. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

NEW BUSINESS

Appointment of System Board Directors
to Hospital Medical Staff Joint Conference Committees

Mr. Small explained the purpose of the joint conference committees at the hospitals. He stated that it is a
mechanism for the Board, medical staffs and administration to have discussions on medical staff and
other related issues. There needs to be an appointment of Directors from governance to these committees.
He suggested that the Board should appoint the same three directors to the three joint conference
committees, and that the three committees begin to hold their meetings on the same day, sequentially.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Zopp, moved to appoint the following Directors to serve on
the three joint conference committees: Director Ansell, Director Mu?oz and Director Butler, with
Director Greenspan serving as an alternate. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Recruitment of Chief Executive Of?cer permanent
Recruitment of Interim Chief Medical Of?cer for the Bureau of Health Services

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et
seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The recruitment, credentialing, discipline
or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.? THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 22, 2008

 

Page 

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Golden, moved to retain the search firm of Quick Leonard
Kieffer for the purpose of recruiting a permanent Chief Executive Of?cer. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Discussion of Policy and Procedures for Board of Directors

Director Ansell, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved that the Board Chairman be the person
who communicates Board related issues with the public and media.

Chairman Batts stated that he has asked the State?s Attorney?s Of?ce to draft a policy with regard to this;
it will be presented to the Board for their review and approval.

On the motion, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Ansell asked for information on the process for appointing non-Director members to committees
and whether those names should be coming to the full Board for their approval.

Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the State?s Attorney, replied
that the Rules state that the Board Chairman makes the appointment of Director members and non-
Director members of committees. She recommended that if a committee chair wishes that the Board
Chairman appoint additional members, that he or she communicate that to the Board Chairman; a letter
from Board Chairman should be suf?cient to reflect the appointment of the member.

Chairman Batts indicated that he preferred receiving the consent of the Board for appointments of
members to committees; it could be placed as an item on the agenda for consideration by the Board. He
requested that the committee chairs communicate to the Board Chairman their request to appoint a
member, and it would be placed on the Board Agenda. If there is a consensus by the Board, then he will
make the appointment.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Zopp, moved that all non-Director committee members
he recommended to the Board Chairman for discussion and approval by the Board and be a
standing item on the agenda.

Director Zopp recommended that the Rules not be changed, as the Board Chairman has kept the Board
noti?ed, and has indicated that he will continue to do so.

Following discussion, the motion was WITHDRAWN.

 

Public Comments

Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
Secretary DeLeon called upon the following registered speaker:

1. Margaret Davis, RN Concerned Citizen

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 22, 2008

 

Page 3

Adioumment

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

\l?l army? KW

Warren L. Batts, Chairman

 

Attest:

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 
 

 

