Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, September 20, 2018 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1900
W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.

I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chair Reiter called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chair Robert G. Reiter, Jr. and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim and Mary B.
Richardson-Lowry (Substitute Member) (3)
Director David Ernesto Munar

Absent:

Chair Hon. Jerry Butler and Director Layla P. Suleiman Gonzalez, PhD, JD (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Jeff McCutchan –General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – Director of Internal Audit

II.

John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive
Officer
Dianne Willard – CCHHS Compliance Officer

Public Speakers
Acting Chair Reiter asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (Attachment #1)
Cathy Bodnar, Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer, provided an overview of the information
contained in the Report. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
The report included information on the following subjects:
 Corporate Compliance Overview
- Mission & Vision – Action: Review and Approve
- Organizational Chart with Introduction
 Provider Metrics
 Fraud, Waste and Abuse (FWA) Metrics
 Appendix

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, September 20, 2018
Page 2

IV.

Action Items
A. Review and approve amendments to the CCHHS Corporate Compliance Mission Statement and Vision
Statement (Attachment #2)
Ms. Bodnar provided an overview of the proposed amendments. During the discussion of the information,
Director Gugenehim recommended that the word “compliance” be included in the CCHHS Corporate
Compliance Mission Statement as follows: Increasing compliance awareness through education and
training.
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved to approve
the proposed amendments to the CCHHS Corporate Compliance Mission Statement
and Vision Statement, with the additional change as discussed. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, June 22, 2018
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved to accept the
minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of June 22, 2018. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Report from Director of Internal Audit
B. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Richardson-Lowry, moved to recess the
open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following
exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the
appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or
against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(29), regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and
governmental audit committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the
discussion involves internal control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk
areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards of the United States of America.” THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY
Acting Chair Reiter declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into the open meeting.

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, September 20, 2018
Page 3

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chair Reiter declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Robert G. Reiter, Jr., Acting Chair

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Requests/Follow-up:
Request:

Request to include the word “compliance” in the CCHHS Corporate Compliance Mission
Statement as follows: Increasing compliance awareness through education and training. Page 2

 