REPORT OF THE
HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 21, 2008

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Andrea L. Zopp; Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts and
Directors David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Sister Sheila Lyne, 
and Jorge Ramirez (6)

Absent: None (0)

Also Present: Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions
Bureau, Office of the State?s Attorney; Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary
to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Maurice Lemon, MD,
MPH Medical Director, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Laura
Lechowicz Felicione Special Counsel to President Todd H. Stroger;
Cecil Marchand Associate Administrator, Stroger Hospital of Cook
County; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of
the State?s Attorney; Jonathan Rothstein Acting Bureau Chief, Bureau
of Human Resources of Cook County; David Small Chief Operating
Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services 

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System met pursuant to notice on Monday, July 21, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 West Polk
Street, Second Floor Conference Room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Human Resources Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report,
the recommendations follow.

Roll Call
Secretary DeLeon called the roll of members, and it was determined that a quorum was present.

Chairman Zopp welcomed the Committee. She stated that the agenda concerns working toward helping
the Board with some policies so that the Human Resources function can operate. She noted that one of
the most pressing questions is what is the best structure for the Human Resources function, and how to
arrive there. Chairman Zopp noted that another objective is to try to discern the most immediate issues
before the Committee, so that they can be addressed.

Presentation by Cook County Bureau of Human Resources Act_1_ng' Bureau Chief Jonathan
Rothstein on current human resources issues including overview of collective bargaining
agreements.

 

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 21, 2003
- PAGE 2.

Chairman Zopp introduced Jonathan Rothstein, Acting Bureau Chief of the Cook County Bureau of

Human Resources.

Mr. Rothstein introduced the following individuals: Cecil Marchand, who has become functionally the
Human Resources Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources; Jim who has for a number of years
performed the Labor Relations function primarily at Stroger Hospital, but who has taken on broader
responsibilities for other Bureau entities; Paris Partee, who recently took over the human resources
function at Provident Hospital; and Louis Martinez, who de facto performs the human resources function
at Cerrnak Health Services.

Mr. Rothstein delivered an overview which addressed structural issues and issues of the most immediate
import for the Health System. He touched on the following: As 75%?80% of County employees are
unionized, one of the most important human resources issues the System will face is collective
bargaining; it involves compensation practices, discipline practices - everything except hiring. Hiring,
under Illinois law, is not part of collective bargaining. The chief decision this Board has to make is the
hiring of the Chief Executive Of?cer. Historically this is not part of the duties of the Bureau of Human
Resources, but assistance is available in this reSpect.

Mr. Rothstein presented a detailed outline of the current hiring process: The Bureau of Human Resources
receives the request from the hiring department. The Bureau works with the Budget Department to verify
that there is a position to be ?lled. The Bureau generates a job description and sends it to the department
for them to review. The Bureau creates a job posting. To comply with the Shakman Decree, the posting
is kept up for fourteen days. Persons "are required to apply in person at 118 Clark Street. Often applicants
are required to bring various documents, such as evidence of licensure, high school andcollege diplomas

- and transcripts. Workers at the Bureau?s front counter log in the applications. Once the applications are
compiled, they are sent to a unit which evaluates them. The determination is made as to whether a given
applicant meets the minimum requirements. A list of eligible applicants is forwarded to the hiring
department in this case the Health and Hospital System. The hiring department schedules interviews.
Based on the results of these interviews, the hiring department forwards hiring recommendation to the
Bureau. The actual offer is extended by the hiring department. The Bureau does the back?end work to get
the employee on the payroll, including a physical, a drug test and a background check which involves
?ngerprinting. The Bureau gathers and ?lls out the requisite forms, including the W4 form, the 19 form,
etc. The new hire is scheduled for a start date. This is a 60 to 90 day process.

Mr. Rothstein discussed moving from a passive recruitment system to a more active recruitruent system,
especially with regard to technical positions. He further noted that the Bureau participates in an annual
survey of salary and bene?t information entitled the Metropolitan Chicago Health Care Council, the
participants of which are mostly hospitals. He urged the Committee to continue participation in this
survey, which utilizes very re?ned categorizations.

Director Golden requested that Mr. Rothstein supply the Committee with a ?ow chart delineating the
timelines associated with each of the hiring process, and inclusive of any complexities involved, such
as recruitment challenges and outliers for hard-to??ll positions.

Discussion of Senior Staff recruitment n_eeds processes, includ_n_rg' process for

recruitment and hiring of interim Chief Executive O?'icer and Ermanent Chief Executive

Officer.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND SYSTEM

JULY 21, 2008

PAGE 3

Chairman ZoPp asked Mr. Small to touch upon on the issue of senior hires for the Bureau.

Mr. Small stated that there is a budgeted, open position for a System-wide Human Resources Director,
and recnritment needs to begin for that position.

Chairman Zopp stated that she would like Mr. Small to provide a proposed Human Resources
organization. She inquired whether there are any other senibr staff positions that the Committee could

help him with.

Mr. Small described how, under Dr. Simon, the relationship between the Bureau of Health and the Human
Resources Bureau has changed over the past 12-18 months to bring several Human Resources personnel
hack to the hospitals and house them there. He stated that this constitutes the ?rst phase of the transition

that needs to happen.

Mr. Small provided an account of the recruitment process for key senior personnel, including: Interim
Chief Financial Of?cer (?lled); permanent CFO of Stroger Hospital; several key ?nancial personnel at
Stroger have been moved to other strategic positions; a budgeted position for System-wide Corporate
Compliance Of?cer (direction rs needed regarding a salary range); and key medical leadership including
an Interim System- wide Chief Medical Of?cer.

Chairman Zopp requested that Mr. Small keep the Committee updated on his progress.

Chairman Zopp stated that in terms of the Chief Medical Of?cer, she will defer in that choice to Director
Ansell's Quality and Compliance Committee. She further stated that she would like to hold meetings on
issues on a topic-by?topic basis e. recruitment, hiring, policies and processes, and employee conduct)

and not get bogged down rn policy Issues.

Review and discussion of current pgrsonnel policies and possible revisions.

Chairman Zopp stated that one of the challenges and questions before the Committee as it determines
rules and procedures is how best to utilize the Bureau of Human Resources; which of the Bureau of
Human Resources? systems and positions will the System need to rely on, and what ef?ciencies can the
System realize by doing things on its own?

At Chairman Zopp's request, Mr. Small gave an overview of the issues relating to human resources,
speci?cally salary structure and ?exibility, bargaining units versus nonunion personnel, the paper
process of recruitment, and the need for an orientation program that introduces the new hire to the
County, the System, and their speci?c department.

Director Golden requested that Mr. Small provide to the Committee a copy of the current orientation
process materials.

Mr. Rothstein, in response to Chairman Zopp?s request, agreed to provide information regarding the
number of hoSpital-related grievances that exist, as well as an overview of the grievance process.

ChairmM Zopp also requested that Mr. Rothstein supply the Committee with a list of the unions, their
contracts, and the number of their members.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 21, 2003

PAGE 4

Laura Lechowicz Felicione, Special Counsel to the President, made the recommendation that she, Judge

Julia Nowicki and Patrick Blanchard of the State?s Attorney's Of?ce be allowed to make a presentation

before the Committee regarding compliance with the Shakman Decree as well as the Supplemental Relief

Order. She then delivered an overview of the Supplemental Relief Order and the County's response to it.

She supplied the Committee with a handout which includes the policy that the Bureau of Health revised, a

copy of the Appendix A and the Shakrnan List submitted by the President in a dual capacity on his own
behalf and on behalf of the Bureau of Health Services.

Chairman Zopp requested a list of the three categories of Shakmun?exempt; Appendix and Shakman-
covered positions.

Director Carvalho asked how many Shakman-exempt positions were in the Health System, and under
whose ?nal authority are the hiring and ?ring decisions made for those positions.

Ms. Lechowicz Felicione stated that the President of the County Board is the chief policy maker of the
County. She also indicated that in the Ordinance creating the System Board hiring and disciplinary
actions would come under the authority of the System Board.

Chairman Zopp reminded the Committee that a human resources policy is needed ?rst.

The discussion turned to the issue of dual employment. Director Carvalho asked whether there is a dual
employment policy for the County and Bureau of Health Services.

Mr. Marchand stated that he would get this Code of Conduct to the Committee members.

Dr. Maurice Lemon, Chief Medical Of?cer of Stroger Hospital of Cook County, informed the members
that as a result of heavy call schedules, sometimes on-call and on-site hours are restructured, especially
those of specialized surgeons. The effect is that some physicians may have fewer on-site hours than
average, but many more on-call hours than average.

Discussion of Committee Rules

Chairman Zopp announced that the next Human Resources Committee meeting will be held on Monday,
August 4, 2008 at 7:30 A.M. She noted that the following issues will he addressed:

II Collective bargaining receive a summary of the unions, what contracts they have at which
facilities, and an update on the status of the bargaining process;

a More detailed discussion on personnel hiring policies and the structure of the human resources
function;

I Presentation from Judge Julia Nowieki, Patrick Blancth from the State?s Arturney?s Of?ce and
Laura Lechowicz Felicione on Shakman compliance.

Chairman Zopp announced that the next Human Resources Committee meeting following the August 4,
2008 meeting should include the following issues:

0 Summary of the hospital employee conduct rules;
I Employee conduct and discipline - grievance process.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COWEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 21, 2008

PAGE 5

Director Golden, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to recess the regular session and convene
into executive session to discuss personnel matters, pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5
ILCS et seq. ., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?the appointment,
employment, compensation, diseipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public

body or legal counsel for the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine -

its validity?. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANINIOUSLY.

- Director Golden, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to adjourn the executive session and
convene into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANMOUSLY.

"Director Lyne, seconded by Director Golden moved, on behalf of the Human Resources Committee
of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, the following motion:

0 to ask Patrick Driscoll to request that President Todd H. Stroger and the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County approve the medical appointm?ts, reappointments and
changes in clinical privileges, and defer consideration of salary reclassifications for Oak
Forest Hospital of Cook County, Provident HOSpital of Cook County and Stroger Hospital
of Cook County, which are currently on the July 22, 2008 County Board Agenda for their
consideration;

0 that the Human Resources Committee review these salary reclassi?cations at its next
meeting on August 4, 2008 at the hour of 7 :30 AMI.

On the motion, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Adiournment

Director Ramirez, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the

Board of ectors of the 
Cook a! Health and Hospitals System

Ms AndreaL. zo plf?hairman

Law I 7s  

B. DeLeon, Secretary

?The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board,
118 N. Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, Illinois 60602.

 

  

 

