AGENDA
The Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System will meet on Thursday, April 9,
2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room,
Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Item #1:

Call of the Meeting
Roll Call.

Item #2:

Public Comments

Item #3:

Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board
of Directors of Friday, March 13, 2009

Item #4:

Report from System Board Chairman Warren L. Batts

Item #5:

Report from the System Interim Chief Executive Officer David R. Small

Item #6:

Committee Reports
Quality and Patient Safety Committee…………...………….Meeting of 3-18-09*
* note: Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes, as
amended, were approved by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee at
this meeting.
Finance Committee………………….……………………….Meeting of 3-20-09*
* note: the following were approved by the Finance Committee at this
meeting: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended; a request to
amend a previously approved contract amendment; and a real estate
matter.
Human Resources Committee……………………….………Meeting of 4-03-09
Finance Committee………………….……………………….Meeting of 4-03-09*
* note: the following were approved by the Finance Committee at this
meeting: Contracts and Procurement Items, as amended; a request to
enter into a contract for strategic planning and consulting services; and a
new Intergovernmental Transfer Agreement.

 AGENDA
Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Thursday, April 9, 2009
Page 2

Item #7:

Consider and Approve Proposed Procurement Policy for the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System

Item #8:

Update from Ad Hoc Strategic Planning Committee

Item #9:

Report on negotiations with the U.S. Department of Justice regarding the Cook County
Department of Corrections and Cermak Health Services
Presented by Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr., Deputy State’s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions
Bureau, Office of the State’s Attorney
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception
to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), which states: “litigation, when an action
against, affecting or on behalf of the particular public body has been filed and is pending before
a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes
of the closed meeting.”

Item #10:

Discussion of Personnel Matters
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to an exception
to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), which states: “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or
legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its
validity.”

Item #11:

Adjournment
Motion to adjourn.
*****

 