Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System (CCHHS) held Friday, June 20, 2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the
Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Wiese called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Dorene P. Wiese, EdD and Director Carmen Velasquez (2)
Board Chairman David Carvalho (ex-officio) and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler, Lewis M. Collens,
Ada Mary Gugenheim; and M. Hill Hammock

Present
Telephonically Directors Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD; and Luis Muñoz,
MD, MPH
Absent:

Director Jorge Ramirez (1)

Chairman Wiese stated that several Directors were unable to be physically present, but were able to participate in
the meeting telephonically.
Chairman Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to allow Directors Butler,
Collens, Lerner, Morris, Muñoz and Ramirez to participate in this meeting
telephonically. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
During the meeting, of those Directors who were included in the group to participate telephonically,
Directors Butler and Collens arrived and were physically present. Directors Lerner, Morris and
Muñoz were telephonically present.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel
Gladys Lopez – Chief of Human Resources
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Interim Chief Executive
Officer and Chief of Clinical Integration

Public Speakers
Chairman Wiese asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.
 

III.

Report from Chief of Human Resources (Attachment #1)
Gladys Lopez, Chief of Human Resources, presented her report, which included information on the following
subjects: Comparison of Vacancies Filled - FY2013-FY2014; 2014 Processing of House Staff; CCHHS
Employment Plan; CCHHS Labor Relations; and Labor Management Committee. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.

Page 1 of 13

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, June 20, 2014
Page 2

III.

Report from Chief of Human Resources (continued)
During the presentation of her report, Ms. Lopez introduced and welcomed the new Deputy Chief of Human
Resources, Barbara Pryor.
Director Velasquez inquired regarding the number of nurses that are retiring because of the pension issue. Ms.
Lopez stated that there have been a few retirements, but not a large number; she stated that she will look into the
matter and provide that number1.
Board Chairman Carvalho noted that, in addition to vacant positions that are being filled, the System loses a
certain number of employees through attrition, which increases the number of unfilled positions. He inquired
whether the System is hiring at a stay-even, fall behind or get-ahead rate. Ms. Lopez responded that the System is
somewhere in between the rate of not quite getting ahead, but not completely falling behind. She indicated that
she can prepare a report and present it at next month’s Committee meeting that reflects the month-by-month
comparison of employees who leave and vacancies filled2.
Ms. Lopez provided additional information on the subject of vacant positions and hiring initiatives. She stated
that, at the start of the year, there is a focus on the total number of vacancies. Throughout the year, vacant
positions created during the year by attrition are included in the total number of vacancies; some of the vacancies
that are filled do cover those vacancies created through attrition. However, the difficulty is, when one looks at a
block of the total positions, those are not necessarily positions that are either targeted or scheduled to be filled at
any one given time. One of the subjects that has been previously discussed and that will now be implemented is a
hiring plan that will allow the administration to be strategic with the positions that are filled. For example, for
every department that has vacancies, the manager will need to identify when that position needs to be filled
throughout the course of the next year. They will also need to identify which positions need to be reclassified or
whether new positions need to be created. That is something that has not been done in the past; without that
information, it is difficult for the administration to be strategic with regard to how the vacancies are filled.
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chief of Clinical Integration, stated that, for an
organization of this size, based on industry standards and as part of routine turnover, it is estimated that at any
given time the System should probably have as many as 600 vacancies. He stated that there is not an
organizational goal to reduce the vacancies down to zero – that would be a theoretical possibility but does not
comport with reality. At the present time, the number of unfilled positions is higher than 1,000, and the
administration wants to get much closer to the number of 600 vacancies. That would be an organizational
medium-term strategic goal. He referenced Ms. Lopez’ comments regarding the strategic hiring plan; he stated
that one of the things that will be seen in coming months is the fruit of those early efforts, which includes focused
attention on hiring for Cermak Health Services and recruiting and hiring for physicians and nurses. His last
point, which he noted will be further discussed at the Finance Committee Meeting later that day, is regarding the
intersection between the System’s Medicaid managed care plan and CCHHS as a provider. The System will,
without a doubt, need to be changing the characteristics, needs and type of skills needed across the organization;
therefore, the administration will move away from the concept of automatically working to fill a vacancy caused
by attrition, and will instead be more strategic with regard to that newly vacant position. He stated that, in some
areas, the administration will immediately work to repost that position – an example would be a position in
medical-surgical nursing, where vacancies always exist. But there will be other positions, where, if a vacancy
occurs, the administration will need to reconsider whether that skill is needed at that particular facility. There will
be a dynamic, but the point is that the System’s ultimate goal is that it needs to drive closer to that goal of
approximately 8-10% of the total workforce, or approximately 600 vacancies.

Page 2 of 13

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, June 20, 2014
Page 3

III.

Report from Chief of Human Resources (continued)
With regard to the information presented on the Comparison of Vacancies Filled, Dr. Shannon clarified that the
data reflected in the subsequent months of the year are not to be interpreted to suggest that this is what will be
seen for those months; rather, this is a snapshot of the number of people from whom the System currently has
received commitments for that month - as the work is ongoing, those bars will grow each time the Committee
receives updates.
Director Velasquez inquired regarding hiring of bilingual staff and the number of nurses who fluently speak
another language. Ms. Lopez responded that when a candidate applies for a position in the Taleo System, they
indicate if they are bilingual in certain languages. Some of the System’s positions indicate that fluency in a
second language is a preferred requirement. Ms. Lopez stated that, although fluency in a second language is not
something that is tracked, she stated that she can reach out to nursing leadership to see if they have that
information or can provide an estimate. Director Velasquez stated that, when one considers the System’s
population, that is something that is going to be very important for the future.
During the discussion of the information regarding the Labor Management Committee (LMC), Board Chairman
Carvalho asked for an example of a decision that has been made that impacted union staff that had not been
included in discussions before the decision has been made. Ms. Lopez responded that, sometimes, a discussion or
meeting about a potential initiative that the administration is considering somehow is communicated to that
potentially affected group – when members of that group hear about the potential initiative, they feel that a
decision has already been made. One example of this occurred when the administration was considering changing
the hours in some of the clinics - expanding hours so more patients could be seen, and making services more
accessible to patients. Ms. Lopez indicated that, while that subject was on the table for discussion, and nothing
had been finalized yet, word got out and there was a concern that the administration was not sharing that
information in a timely fashion.
Dr. Shannon provided additional information regarding the membership of the LMC. He stated that the
membership is dynamic, was initiated by leadership from a handful of the largest membership unions, and was
rather open-ended. The management representation was never clearly set, so it will be expanded; starting this
month, it will include all key operational leadership that work with the System’s unionized staff. It is believed
that this will be an improvement, because the System and the labor unions have a very shared need to have a good
relationship. This organization needs to be more nimble and effective, and to provide better services for its
patients; to address this need, the System needs to be on the same page with its labor partners. Director Velasquez
added that the whole philosophy of cross-training staff has to be put on the table; understanding that the System’s
administration and its labor partners both want what is best for the patients should make the concept desirable for
both parties.

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of May 16, 2014
Chairman Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to accept the minutes of the
meeting of the Human Resources Committee of May 16, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

Page 3 of 13

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, June 20, 2014
Page 4

IV.

Action Items (continued)
C. Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements
i.

Coalition of Unionized Public Employees (C.O.U.P.E.) Trades
a. Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement, for the period
of December 1, 2012 through November 30, 2016
b. Prevailing Wage Rates

Action was taken on this item following the adjournment of the closed meeting.
Chairman Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to approve the proposed
Collective Bargaining Agreement with the C.O.U.P.E Trades. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Discussion of personnel matters
B. Update on labor negotiations
C. Discussion of litigation matters
Chairman Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to recess the open meeting
and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois
Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the
public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for
the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective
negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their representatives,
or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” 5
ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf
of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative
tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in
which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of
the closed meeting,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment,
credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care
professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated
by the public body.” THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the
Committee recessed into a closed meeting.

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Chairman Wiese declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into the open meeting.
Action was taken on the Proposed Bargaining Agreement following the adjournment of
the closed meeting (see Item IV(C)).

Page 4 of 13

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, June 20, 2014
Page 5

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Wiese declared the meeting ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Dorene P. Wiese, EdD, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

1

Follow-up: request for information regarding the number of nurses that are retiring because of the pension issue.
Page 2.

2

Follow-up: for next Committee Meeting, report to be presented reflects the month-by-month comparison of
employees who leave and vacancies filled. Page 2.

Page 5 of 13

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
June 20, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 6 of 13

 CCHHS Human Resources
Gladys Lopez,
Chief of Human Resources
CCHHS – Strengthening Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

June 20, 2014

Page 7 of 13

 Comparison of Vacancies Filled – FY13 to FY14
120
100
92
86

80

83
77

58

67

66

60

58

FY14

51

40
34

20
0

NOTE:

49

41

36
59

26
37

33

38

53

Pending Hires 
(93)

FY13

47
12

9

12

2

As of 06/11/14 we have 3 candidates who are being processed. A Hire Date has not yet been
identified for these individuals.
2
Page 8 of 13

 2014 Processing of House Staff
• Human Resources is working closely and 
collaboratively in the processing of the 125 
ll b
i l i h
i
f h 125
new 2014 House Staff members with an 
anticipated start date of Tuesday, July 1, 2014
i i
d
d
f T d J l 1 2014
– In addition to the usual “Processing” and “On‐
B di ” f
Boarding” of a new hire, in this case, it also  
hi i hi
i l
includes a myriad of additional and other behind‐
the‐scenes work such as: processing promotions;
the‐scenes work such as: processing promotions; 
step increases; vacation accrual corrections / 
adjustments; etc.
j
;
3
Page 9 of 13

 CCHHS Employment Plan
• Continued assistance from the Compliance 
Ad i i
Administrator’s Office and our Employment 
’ Offi
d
E l
Plan Officer in reviewing the document
• Our Draft Plan was submitted to Plaintiffs’ 
Counsel and is under review
• Next step: to file the Plan with the Court 
4
Page 10 of 13

 CCHHS Labor Relations
June 20, 2014
CCHHS – Strengthening
Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

Page 11 of 13

 Labor Management Committee
• Met on May 19, 2014
• Dr. Shannon reminded everyone of the 
objective to identify concerns where there can 
be collaborative resolution
• A union concern is they are not included in 
y
discussions or decisions that impact Union 
staff until after a decision is made 
6
Page 12 of 13

 • The following projects were shared to 
demonstrate Management/Labor working 
together collaboratively:
1) SEIU Recall 
2) NNOC/RTU open shift bid 
3) AFSCME MOU on internal/external
3) AFSCME MOU on internal/external 
postings
4) SEIU agreement for certain positions on 
SEIU agreement for certain positions on
internal/external postings
7
Page 13 of 13

 