Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System held Thursday, October 29, 2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Zopp called the meeting to order at 7:35 A.M.
Present:

Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors Quin R. Golden; Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM and Jorge
Ramirez (4)
Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts (Ex-Officio) and Director Hon. Jerry Butler

Absent:

Director David Carvalho (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Elizabeth Reidy
Deborah Santana
Deborah Tate
Anthony J. Tedeschi, MD, MPH, MBA

Karen Dimond
William T. Foley
Jeanene Johnson
Patricia Kelleher, MD
Roz Lennon
II.

Public Speakers
Chairman Zopp asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speakers:
1.
2.
3.

III.

Leslie Curtis
George Blakemore
Regina Ellis

Midwest Director, National Nurses Organizing Committee
Concerned Citizen
Representative, National Nurses Organizing Committee

Report from System Director of Human Resources
Deborah Tate, Director of Human Resources for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, introduced Dr.
Patricia Kelleher, of Employee Health Services.
Dr. Kelleher presented an update on employee H1N1 influenza vaccination efforts. She provided information
on the final policy that was approved for this purpose; this policy mandates influenza vaccinations for all
employees. The only exception to this is for medical contraindications.
Dr. Kelleher stated that throughout the System they planned for ample vaccine supply, however, there has been
a delivery issue. As a result, they have revamped the program to respond to that issue. Instead of running mass
vaccination clinics, they have focused on the highest-risk employees. To date, they have vaccinated 1,826
employees, or 24% of the employee group. This represents 14% of their goal to vaccinate 13,000 individuals
that are considered health care workers in the System (7,700 of which are budgeted positions).
Director Ramirez inquired whether a meeting was held with the unions on the subject of the final vaccination
policy. Mr. Foley responded affirmatively, stating that a meeting was held after the matter was remanded back
from the Board to the Quality and Patient Safety Committee, and prior to that Committee’s approval of the final
policy.

 Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday, October 29, 2009
Page 2

III.

Report from System Director of Human Resources (continued)
Ms. Tate provided an update on the following:
•

Recruitment efforts

Ms. Tate stated that with regard to filling the position of Director of Human Resources at John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County, she made an offer last week to a candidate but the offer was declined. Therefore, she
will continue recruitment efforts for that position.
•

Update on MedAssets

Ms. Tate stated that within three to four weeks, they will be able to post job opportunities on behalf of
MedAssets on the System’s website. This is in response to an earlier inquiry by Director Golden, in which she
asked whether the System is posting information on their website relating to open positions located at the
System for which MedAssets is hiring.
•

Lawson implementation and negotiation process

Ms. Tate provided an update on the Lawson implementation and negotiation process. Information on employee
programs, health systems and the pension system is needed from the County’s Bureau of Human Resources so
that it can be loaded into the system. She is contacting the Bureau Chief, Joseph Sova, to see if a team of his
staff can meet with Lawson representatives to resolve the issue.
With regard to the negotiation process, Ms. Tate stated that AFSCME has requested a federal mediator because
they have concerns that the System is not moving forward with an economic package.
•

Rebalancing

Ms. Tate provided an update on the process of rebalancing. She stated that on October 21, 2009, 335 affected
employees received letters on this subject. Additionally, notification packets were sent to the unions via
certified mail for delivery on the same day; this information was also faxed to them that morning. Prior to
talking to employees on Wednesday, meetings were held on Tuesday with the Chief Operating Officers and the
management team to explain the process for the following day, to review the communication tools, to define the
roles and expectations for each of the leaders, and to answer any questions.
In early December, there will be a System-wide lay-off meeting for displaced employees, so that they will be
able to look at other opportunities for positions in the System. Ms. Tate provided information on the
outplacement mechanisms that will be used to assist the displaced employees. The Illinois Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity is scheduled (tentatively for December 15, 16 and 17) to come in at
Stroger, Provident and Oak Forest Hospitals. Some of the services that will be included are career counselors to
provide assistance with resume development, and assistance with applications for state and government-assisted
programs. She added that there may potentially be some educational funding programs available.

IV.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Update and discussion of pending information requests
Chairman Zopp stated that there were no pending information requests at this time.

 Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
Thursday, October 29, 2009
Page 3

V.

Action Items
A. Any items listed under Sections IV and VI

VI.

Closed Session Discussion/Information Items
A. Discussion of personnel matters
B. Update on labor negotiations
Director Golden, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1),
which permits closed meetings for consideration of “the appointment, employment, compensation,
discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or
against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding
“collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their representatives, or
deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees.” THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Zopp declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Committee reconvened into regular
session.

VII. Adjourn
Director Golden, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to adjourn.
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

THE MOTION CARRIED

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ms. Andrea Zopp, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

 