Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Tuesday, August 21, 2012 at the hour of 12:00 P.M. at 1900 W. Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Michael called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Edward L. Michael and Director Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH (2)
Director Hon. Jerry Butler and Mary Driscoll (non-Director Member)

Absent:

Director Carmen Velasquez (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Krishna Das, MD – System Interim Director of
Quality and Patient Safety
Helen Haynes – System Associate General Counsel
Terry Mason, MD – System Chief Medical Officer
Linda Rae Murray, MD – Cook County Department
of Public Health
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer

II.

Tanda Russell – System Interim Chief Nursing
Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Shari Schabowski, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County
Pierre Wakim, MD – Provident Hospital of Cook
County

Public Speakers
Chairman Michael asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Report from System Chief Medical Officer
Dr. Terry Mason, System Chief Medical Officer, provided a brief overview regarding a press conference held
earlier that day at Malcolm X College, regarding their new College to Careers initiative. He stated that a new
$300 million campus will be built right across the street; the focus of the campus will be on health care
education. Dr. Mason stated that Cook County has had a thirty (30) year history of being supportive of the
Malcolm X College program; he noted that at least thirty (30) physician assistants from Malcolm X College are
working at Stroger Hospital.
Dr. Mason introduced the new System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety, Dr. Krishna Das, who
provided her report as part of Item V.
As part of his report, Dr. Mason presented a short video that he received at a recent National Association of
Public Hospitals and Health Systems (NAPH) conference; the video addressed the subject of hospital governing
boards and their responsibilities toward quality.

Page 1 of 126

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, August 21, 2012
Page 2

III.

Report from System Chief Medical Officer (continued)
Following the presentation of the video, Mary Driscoll, non-Director Committee Member, inquired as to the
reason why the Committee no longer received information at the meetings regarding serious reportable events.
She noted that, early on, this Committee received some reports of that nature. She felt that receiving these
reports was beneficial, as the Committee could discuss the information and the corrective action plans; however,
at some point, the presentation of this information ceased. Helen Haynes, Associate General Counsel,
responded that she would like to provide a written response on the subject, in order to summarize the
background on the legal thinking with regard to these issues1. She stated that she and Dr. Das have spoken
briefly on the need to improve this, so that detailed communication to the Board can be improved within the
protections that are legally available.
Director Muñoz inquired regarding the tracking of serious reportable events. Dr. Mason responded that there
are a couple of areas responsible for this. Among other groups or committees that are involved in the processes,
he stated that there are meetings of committees of the medical staff, which allow for the discussion of these
matters in great detail. This allows the medical staff to move toward the root cause analyses, and to try to
understand the operational and medical issues that would have impacted these matters. Also, Dr. Mason stated
that the System reports a number of events into its incident reporting system, MERS; this system is also used to
track various things.
Chairman Michael expanded on Director Muñoz’ question; he stated that he is interested in receiving
information on the processes in place at the various levels, that are used to investigate and follow-up on serious
reportable events, without getting into specific cases2. Dr. Mason stated that this information can be presented
at a future meeting. Additionally, Director Butler requested that information be provided as to how the Joint
Conference Committee functions within or as a part of these processes; one of his major concerns is how these
events are taken through the processes to the Joint Conference Committee, and how that feedback is going back
to all of the committees involved in the processes3. Ms. Driscoll suggested that perhaps an annual or semiannual report of the number of events could be presented; this report could be characterized by the type of event
using the National Quality Forum standards. Dr. Mason stated that a summary of all of the publicly-reported
data will be provided to the Board; efforts will be made to make certain that the Board and Committee Members
are familiar with that information4.

IV.

Report from System Interim Chief Nursing Officer
Tanda Russell, System Interim Chief Nursing Officer, provided an update on the following subjects: focus on
hiring; plans to prepare for pending retirements and changes in staffing; nurse agency usage; Power Chart
implementation; chapter review of nursing leadership for Joint Commission; and Hand-off Report roll-out. The
Committee discussed the information.
Chairman Michael inquired further regarding the number of pending retirements. Ms. Russell responded that
she recently discussed this subject with the Chief Nursing Officer at Stroger Hospital, where they are
experiencing an average of two (2) retirements per week. Additionally, Ms. Russell received a report from
Payroll indicating that there are approximately one hundred ninety-six (196) nurses who are eligible for
retirement with over twenty-five (25) years of service; forty-three (43) of those nurses are eligible with over
thirty (30) years of service.

Page 2 of 126

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, August 21, 2012
Page 3

V.

Report from System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety and Acceptance of Reports
Following her introduction, Dr. Das provided an overview of her background and experience. She described the
projects on which she has worked; she noted that one thing she has learned while being involved in these types
of efforts is that, in order to improve a process, data is needed. In the past, this has been a challenge; however,
more recently, there have been improvements. With the innovations in the electronic medical record (EMR),
and with the efforts of the new System Interim Chief Information Officer, Dr. Bala Hota, staff is starting to get
timely, accurate reports. These reports will eventually serve as the backbone of a quality dashboard, and the
data, which will be available in real-time, should inform process improvement efforts. Dr. Das stated that she
looks forward to working with Dr. Mason and Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, to develop a quality plan
with a set of metrics to be presented at a future meeting5.
Dr. Das noted that there is a priority at Stroger Hospital to pass a Joint Commission visit that is anticipated
sometime around the beginning of next year, perhaps in February. She asked Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical
Officer of the John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, to provide further information on the subject.
Dr. Fegan stated that staff is in preparation mode for the upcoming Joint Commission visit. One of the tasks to
prepare for the visit is to educate the members of the System Board about their responsibility with regard to the
Joint Commission and accreditation. The Joint Commission has a section relating to governance; there is an
expectation that the Directors will be familiar with that information. To that end, she and Dr. Das are planning
an educational process that will provide small bites of information at future meetings, in preparation for the
Joint Commission visit6. Director Muñoz requested that the subject of the governance component of the
educational process be discussed with Cathy Bodnar, System Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer; he
requested an update on the subject, following those discussions7.
A. Quality Report from Cook County Department of Public Health (Attachment #1)
i.
Update on Accreditation
ii.
Review of Quality Improvement Indicators for 2013
Dr. Linda Rae Murray, Chief Medical Officer of the Cook County Department of Public Health, provided
an overview of the Quality Report materials. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.

B. Acceptance of the following reports:
i.
Food Access in Suburban Cook County(Attachment #2)
ii.
The Suburban Cook County Food System: An Assessment and Recommendations (Attachment # 3)
iii. Communicable Disease Update – August 2012 (Attachment #4)
iv. Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report – 2011 (Attachment #5)
Dr. Murray presented the four (4) reports for the Committee’s acceptance. During the discussion of the
reports, Chairman Michael inquired regarding the information on drug-resistant gonorrhea cases included in
the Communicable Disease Update. Although the percentage of cases is fairly low, the number of cases has
risen dramatically in the last five years. He inquired as to the type of action taken by the Cook County
Department of Public Health in response to the rise in the number of cases. Dr. Murray responded that there
are a few actions that take place in response to this type of matter. First, the information is included in the
Communicable Disease Update; this report goes out to physicians and hospitals so they are informed and
aware. There is also an education component involved; additionally, under some circumstances, contact
tracing is done.
Page 3 of 126

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, August 21, 2012
Page 4

V.

Report from System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety and Acceptance of Reports
B. Acceptance of reports (continued)
Director Muñoz, seconded by Chairman Michael, moved to receive and file the four (4)
reports from the Cook County Department of Public Health. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

VI.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees
i. Provident Hospital of Cook County
ii. John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Dr. Pierre Wakim, President of the Executive Medical Staff (EMS) of Provident Hospital of Cook County,
stated that the EMS met on August 10th. He provided highlights on a couple of subjects that were discussed
at that meeting. He noted that the gastrointestinal suite will be implemented in the next four (4) to six (6)
weeks. Additionally, he thanked Dr. Raju for his assistance with a capital equipment request relating to
some new equipment which will allow for the handling of more gynecological cases at Provident.
Dr. Shari Schabowski, Vice President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, appeared
on behalf of EMS President Dr. David Goldberg. Dr. Schabowski welcomed the new Committee members
and indicated that she did not have anything additional to report at this time.

VII. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, June 19, 2012
Director Muñoz, seconded by Chairman Michael, moved to accept the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of June 19, 2012. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Any items listed under Sections V, VI, VII and VIII

VIII. Closed Session Item
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #6)
Note: the Committee did not recess the regular session and convene into closed session.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Chairman Michael, moved to approve the Medical Staff
Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes.
THE
MOTION
CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 4 of 126

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, August 21, 2012
Page 5

IX.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Michael declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Edward L. Michael, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary
1

Follow-up: Written response to be provided on subject of the Committee receiving information on serious
reportable events (Haynes) Page 2
2
Follow-up: Request for information on the processes used to investigate and follow-up on serious reportable
events (Mason) Page 2
3
Follow-up: Request for information on the Joint Conference Committee’s role in the processes used to investigate
and follow-up on serious reportable events (Mason) Page 2
4
Follow-up: Summary to be provided to the Board of all publicly-reported data (Mason) Page 2
5
Follow-up: At future Committee meeting, quality plan with set of metrics to be presented (Das, Mason) Page 3
6
Follow-up: For next several meetings of the Committee, Education Items to be presented, with a focus on Joint
Commission and Governance (Das, Fegan) Page 3
7
Follow-up: Update to be provided to Director Munoz regarding discussion with Cathy Bodnar regarding
governance component and educational process (Fegan) Page 3

Page 5 of 126

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
August 21, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 6 of 126

 Cook County Department of 
Public Health 
Report to Board Quality Committee
August 21, 2012
August 21, 2012

Page 7 of 126

 Agenda for Report
Agenda for Report
• Update
Update on Public Health Accreditation Process
on Public Health Accreditation Process
• Review of Quality Improvement Indicators for 
FY 2013
FY 2013 
• Acceptance of Reports: 
– The Suburban Cook County Food System Feb 2012
– Food Access Suburban Cook County March 2012
– CD Update August 2012
– Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report 2011

Page 8 of 126

 Update on accreditation 
process
• Submitted LETTER OF INTENT : February 2012
• Submitted  APPLICATION with 3 prerequisites in 
p
q
May 2012(Approved by CCHHS Board & Cook County Board of 
Commissioners in June 2011)

– Community
Community Health Assessment (WePlan
Health Assessment (WePlan 2015)
– Community Health Improvement (WePlan 2015)
– CCDPH Strategic Plan 2015

• PHAB training of Accreditation Coordinator 
completed August 2012

Page 9 of 126

 Steps: PHAB Public Health 
Accreditation Board
Accreditation Board
7.

Reaccreditation
6.

Reports
5.

Accreditation Decision
4.

Site Visit  after JULY 2013
3.

Documentation Selection & Submission –
l
b
IN         
PROCESS
2. Application
1.

Page 10 of 126

Pre‐application

 Goals for CCDPH
Goals for CCDPH
• Public Health Accreditation is a national effort 
pp
y p
g
supported by all public health organizations 
including APHA, ASTHO, CDC, NACCHO
• Be in the first wave of health departments to 
become accredited.
– To date 80/3,000 local health departments 
applications have been accepted
applications have been accepted

• Achieve Accreditation – By December 31, 2013
– We are on schedule
We are on schedule
Page 11 of 126

 Educational Goal for Governance
Educational Goal for Governance
• CCDPH is a RESOLUTION HEALTH DEPARTMENT 
– Created by Ordinance of the County Board in 1945
Created by Ordinance of the County Board in 1945

• Cook County Department of Public Health 
relates to two governing entities
relates to two governing entities
– Cook County Board of Commissioners who are our 
Board of Health & the source for our Police Powers
– Board of Cook County Health and Hospitals System 
for our day to day operations

• Today we will
T d
ill
– Review Mandated Services
– Review various CCDPH legal jurisdictions
Review various CCDPH legal jurisdictions
Page 12 of 126

 DISCRETIONARY 
PROGRAMS

REQUIRED FOR COMMUNITY 
REQUIRED
FOR COMMUNITY
HEALTH IMPROVEMENT PLAN
Will be discussed another time.

Mandated 
Public Health 
Services for 
Certified Health
Certified Health 
Departments in 
Illinois 2010

REQUIRED FOR LOCAL HEALTH PROTECTION GRANT
Infectious Disease, Food Protection, Potable Water Supply, Private 
Sewage disposal
Sewage disposal

REQUIRED FOR LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT 
CERTIFICATION:
Emergency Preparedness & Response, Disease Monitoring & 
Control Services, Community Health Assessment & Planning, 
Health Communications, Health Data, Quality Improvement and 
Accreditation, Policy Development, Food & Water Safety, 
Organizational Management, High Risk Infant Follow‐up
Page 13 of 126

 BASIC 
JURISDICTION
•All of Cook County EXCEPT 
where there is a state certified 
health department.
• Most activities takes place in 
this geography
this geography.

Page 14 of 126

 Quality Improvement Indicators FY 
2013‐ Department Levell
Performance Indicator

FY 2012

FY 2013

Achieve National Public Health 
Accreditation through the PHAB 
(Public Health Accreditation 
B d)
Board)

ON TARGET

Accreditation by 
December 31, 2013

Page 15 of 126

 Child Lead Poisoning 
g
in Cook County
•Red areas highest  rates 
•Pink areas next

Page 16 of 126

 Childhood Lead Poisoning 
– Comparing data Before 
& After changes (August 
2011)

100
100
90

88

92

80
70

BENCHMARK:  100% of 
cases will be visited 
within the time periods 
below –

56

60

Before

50

After

40
30

Elevated Blood Lead (EBL) 
20 39                within 10 days
20 –
39
within 10 days
40 – 69                 within 5 days

20
10

0 0

0
> 70                       within 2 days

20 39

Page 17 of 126

40 ‐ 69

> 70

 Childhood Lead 
Poisoning –
C
Comparing data 
i d
Before & After 
changes (August
changes (August 
2011)
BENCHMARK:  100% 
of Elevated Blood 
Lead children with
Lead children with 
levels  20 or greater 
will receive a JOINT 
h
home visit from 
ii f
Environmental and 
Nursing. 

Page 18 of 126

 Quality Improvement Indicators FY 
2013 – Lead Poisoning Prevention
d
Performance Indicator

August
2011 – July 
2012

FY 2013
TARGET

92%
100%
No cases

95%
95%
95%

Percent of children with EBLs of 20 or greater that 
receive a joint home visit from a public health nurse and 
an environmental inspector

82.4%

95%

Proportion of referrals from IDPH Stellar system referred 
to CCDPH units within 2 days of receipt

98%

95%

Proportion of mitigation orders that are developed 
within 10 business days of the environmental inspection

95%

95%

Percent of cases with elevated blood lead (EBL) visited 
b PUBLIC HEALTH NURSE
by a PUBLIC HEALTH NURSE:
* EBL 20‐39 : home visit within 10 business days
* EBL 40 – 69: home visit within 5 business days 
* EBL 70 and greater: home visit within 2 business 
day

Page 19 of 126

 Quality Improvement Indicators FY 
2013 – Lead Poisoning Prevention
d
Performance Indicator

August
2011 –
July 2012

FY 2013
TARGET

Proportion of child care providers in high risk zip codes that 
are educated
d t d on incorporating lead screening & testing 
i
ti l d
i & t ti
policies in their parent handbooks.

No data

90%

Number of healthcare providers serving children in high risk 
zip codes that receive education on lead screening policies
zip codes that receive education on lead screening policies 
and Medicaid pay‐for‐performance incentives for testing.

No data

50%

Number of private residences that receive 
mitigation/abatement services to correct lead based paint 
g
/
p
hazards.*

No 
comparable 
d t
data

80%

* Dependent on grant funding levels

Page 20 of 126

 FOOD INSPECTION
* CCDPH is responsible for food 
inspections in UNINCORPORATED 
Cook County
* CCDPH provides on a 
CONTRACTED basis food
CONTRACTED basis food 
inspections in certain suburban 
communities.
*CCDPH is responsible for FOOD 
BORNE OUTBREAKS OF ILLNESS 
everywhere in suburban Cook 
County where there is NOT a 
state certified  local health 
department. 

Page 21 of 126

 Quality Improvement Indicators FY 
2013 – Environmental Health
l
lh
Performance Indicators

FY 2012

FY 2013

Percent of food establishments with non‐food related 
complaints within non‐contract communities that are
referred to the appropriate licensing authority within 2 
b i
business days.
d

No
Available 
Yet

100%

Percent of nuisance complaints related to failing private 
sewage disposal systems in suburban Cook County that are 
investigated within 5 business days of receipt of complaint
investigated within 5 business days of receipt of complaint.

No
Available 
Yet

100%

No
Percentage of nuisance complaints NOT RELATED to failing 
private sewage disposal systems in unincorporated suburban 
p
g
p
y
p
Available 
Cook County that are investigated within 10 business days of 
Yet
receipt of the complaint.

90%

Percentage of nuisance complaints determined to be the 
responsibility of other jurisdictions that are referred to the 
appropriate agency within 3 business days of receipt of the 
complaint. 

100%

Page 22 of 126

No
Available 
Yet

 Quality Improvement Indicators FY 
2013‐ Communicable Disease
bl
PERFORMANCE INDICATOR

FY 2012

FY2013

Percentage of primary & secondary syphilis cases (P&S) 
referred to field investigation  or assigned final disposition 
within 3 business days

n.a.

95%

Percentage of P&S cases receiving a phone call within 3 
business days of field assignment.

n.a.

95%

Average Contact per Index case of P&S syphilis

n.a.

1.0

Percentage of P&S cases closed within 30 days of field 
assignment

n.a.

95%

Percentage of locatable partners to a confirmed case  of 
P&S syphilis referred for testing and/or treatment.

n.a.

75%

Page 23 of 126

 Quality Improvement Indicators FY 
2013 – High Risk Infants
h k f
Performance Indicators

FY 2012

FY 2013

Percent of high risk infants referrals received through 
the APORS (Adverse Pregnancy Outcome Reporting 
System) that are contacted for follow up by the Public 
H lth N
Health Nurse within 14 calendar days of referral.
ithi 14 l d d
f f
l

n.a.

100%

CCDPH will identify top ten referral diagnoses from 
APORS for suburban Cook County

n.a.

Top ten 
ICD/9ICD/10 
DX identified
DX identified

CCDPH will identify suburban Cook County zip codes 
with highest rates of top ten referral diagnoses for 
APORS

n.a.

List of Cook 
County zip 
codes by 
y
ICD/9ICD/10 
codes

Page 24 of 126

 CCDPH JURISDICTION 
FOR TUBERCULOSIS
•CCDPH has authority in ALL of 
suburban Cook County for TB
•The CCHHS now is responsible 
to make sure that clinical care is 
provided to people with TB in the 
city & suburbs. (Some patients
city & suburbs. (Some patients 
are cared for by private 
physicians)
• CCDPH strategic plan calls for 
close coordination and eventual
close coordination and eventual 
merger of TB clinical activities 
with the Division of Pulmonary 
Medicine at Stroger Hospital. 
THIS IS ONGOING AND ON
THIS IS ONGOING AND ON 
TARGET.
•CCDPH will maintain the 
population based (public health ) 
services as required of a certified
services as required of a certified 
health department.

Page 25 of 126

 Quality Improvement Indicators FY 
2013 ‐ TUBERCULOSIS
PERFORMANCE INDICATOR

BASELINE

FY 2013
TARGET

COMPLETION OF RX: For patients with newly 
diagnosed TB for whom 12 months or less of 
t t
treatment is indicated increase the proportion of 
t i i di t d i
th
ti
f
patients who complete treatment within twelve 
months.

80.2% 
(2010 data)

93% 
(National 2015 
t
target)
t)

INCREASE HIV TESTING 
INCREASE
HIV TESTING among patients with 
among patients with
tuberculosis.

89.3% 
89
3%
(2011 data)

90%
(National 2015 
target = 88.7%)

CONVERSION OF SPUTUM CULTURE: Increase the 
percentage of TB patients which positive sputum 
culture results who have documented conversion 
to sputum culture negative within 60 days of 
treatment initiation
treatment initiation.

70.3% 
(2010 data)

78% 
(National 2015 
target = 60%)

Page 26 of 126

 Reports Issued since last report
Reports Issued since last report
• Focus on Food: 
Focus on Food:
– The Suburban Cook County Food System: An 
Assessment and Recommendations (Report of
Assessment and Recommendations (Report of 
the Suburban Cook County Food System Steering 
Committee) February 2012.
– Food Access in Suburban Cook County (March 
2012)

Page 27 of 126

 Reports to be released
• CD Update: August 2012
– Focus on drug resistant Gonorrhea
Focus on drug resistant Gonorrhea
– Reminder that 66% of cases occur among youth 
(15‐24
(15
24 years of age)
years of age)

• Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011
– While the rate of TB in suburban Cook is half that 
While the rate of TB in suburban Cook is half that
of the city; the proportion of suburban cases has 
increased (between 2001 & 2010 the proportion
increased (between 2001 & 2010 the proportion 
of suburban cases increased from 27% to 37%)

Page 28 of 126

 FUTURE REPORT : Fall 2012
FUTURE REPORT : Fall 2012
• Update on CCDPH Strategic Plan
Update on CCDPH Strategic Plan
• Formal Quality Improvement Plan:
– Defining process
D fi i
– Including indicators presented TODAY

Page 29 of 126

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
August 21, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2
(attached electronically)

Page 30 of 126

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
August 21, 2012

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 31 of 126

 The Suburban Cook County Food System:
An Assessment and Recommendations
Report from the Suburban Cook County Food System Steering Committee

February 2012

Page 32 of 126

 Made possible through funding from the Department of Health and Human Services:
Communities Putting Prevention to Work (CPPW). CPPW is a joint project between the Cook
County Department of Public Health and the Public Health Institute of Metropolitan Chicago.

The findings and conclusions presented in this report are those of the writers/report team alone and do not necessarily
reflect the views, opinions, or policies of the officers and/or trustees of Northern Illinois University. For more
information, please contact Patricia Inman, pinman@niu.edu or Katherine Davison kdavison@niu.edu.

 
 

Page 33 of 126

 REPORT TEAM
Members of the Cook County Food System Steering Committee
Lindsey Arenberg
Fresh from the Farm Manager, Seven Generations Ahead
Patsy Benveniste
Vice President of Community Education Programs, Chicago Botanic
Garden

Debbie Hillman
Chairperson, Evanston Food Council
Darryl Holmes
Planner, Cook County Bureau of Economic Development
Kate Maehr
Chief Executive Director, Greater Chicago Food Depository

Daniel Block
Professor of Geography, Chicago State University
Director, Neighborhood Assistance Center

Nancy Pollard
Unit Educator, Horticulture, University of Illinois Extension

Jim Bloyd
Regional Health Officer, Cook County Department of Public Health
Martha Boyd
Program Director, Urban Initiative Angelic Organics Learning Center
(Chicago)

Bonnie Rateree
Director, Harvey Cultural Center, City of Harvey
Barbara Rose
Civic Participation Facilitator, Angelic Organics Learning Center

Sheila Castillo
Associate Director, Midwest Latino Health Research Training and
Policy Center, University of Illinois - Chicago
Principal Investigator, Center of Excellence in the Elimination of
Disparities

Sandra Streed
Director, Illinois Center for Food Safety

Andre Garner
Project Director, Cook County Bureau of Economic Development

Staff
Lara Jaskiewicz
Program Manager, Suburban Cook County Communities Putting
Prevention to Work (CPPW)
Public Health Institute of Metropolitan Chicago

Bona Heinsohn
Cook County Farm Bureau

Tanya Triche
Senior Counsel, Illinois Retail Merchants Association

Lori Heringa
Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning

Thanks to the following for support on this project:
Jim Braun
Illinois Local Food, Farms, and Jobs Council
Mari Gallagher
Mari Gallagher Research
Ms. Ruth Zeldenrust
Cook County Farm Bureau

Writers
Patricia Inman
Senior Research Associate, Center for Governmental Studies at
Northern Illinois University
Katherine Davison
Research Associate, Center for Governmental Studies at Northern
Illinois University
Reviewer
Melanie Megara
Assistant to the Vice President for Outreach, Engagement, and
Information Technologies at Northern Illinois University

 
 

Page 34 of 126

 TABLE OF CONTENTS
 

Executive Summary

1

Introduction

3

The Assessment Process

3

Profile of Suburban Cook County

4

We Can Do Better: Defining a Sustainable Food System

6

How Does Suburban Cook County Measure Up to Those Principles? 7
The Suburban Cook County Food System

13

Food System Components

13

Production

14

Processing

18

Distribution

21

Access

22

Waste Management

26

Looking to the Future

27

Recommendations

27

Resource Assessment

27

Food as an Economic Driver

27

Coordination and Education

28

What is a Food Policy Council?

28

Why Establish a Food Policy Council?

29

Conclusion

29

Appendices

32

A. Healthy, Fair, and Sustainable Food Systems:
Successful Local Food Policies, Projects, and Partners
B. Seminal Reports
C. Public Input Survey
Glossary

32
40
41
55

Page 35 of 126

 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The suburban half of our nation’s second-largest county is home to more than two-and-a-half million people, many
of whom do not have access to healthy, fresh foods. The results are staggering: Over the past two decades, obesity
rates in suburban Cook County have doubled for adults and tripled for children – and lack of fresh food has been
cited as a major contributor to that trend.1 In the poorest parts of suburban Cook County, food insecurity rates top
those in the poorest sections of the city of Chicago. Yet aggregated data that portrays the entire suburban county
area masks the severity of fresh food scarcity in these isolated areas.2
The complexity of a food system that hinders access is not always obvious. The American Dietetic Association, the
American Nurses Association, the American Planning Association and the American Public Health Association
have established consensus on the principal characteristics of a health-focused food system: health promoting,
sustainable, resilient, diverse, fair, economically balanced, and transparent. An analysis of data related to these
elements in suburban Cook County shows dramatic inconsistency between and among various communities.
Food insecurity rates within the county range from the low single digits in wealthy areas such as Kenilworth and
Burr Ridge to 45% – 55% in the municipalities of Ford Heights and Robbins.3

Not surprisingly, rates of

unemployment and low income follow this same geographic pattern.
During an eight-month period, the writers worked closely with the Suburban Cook County Food System Steering
Committee to strategize and develop this document. The perspective reflected is that of the steering committee, with
public input obtained through a survey tool and a community-wide forum. In the interest of inclusivity, issues
identified in the survey and at the forum are listed throughout the report and have driven much of the supporting
data.
The ability to address inequality in access to fresh food is complicated by the complexity of the food system. Five
main functions move food from farm to table: production, processing, distribution, access, and waste management.
The interdependency of those functions creates a confusing and largely invisible web. Making food systems more
visible allows regions to bring appropriate partners to the table for collaboration and helps government agencies
make informed policy choices.
Comprehensive food policies can also have dramatic impact on local economies. Public input from both the survey
and the public forum indicate that Illinois residents want more locally-grown food. However, only about four
percent of what we eat is produced in this state. Illinoisans annually spend $48 billion on food imported from other
states, so policy changes that encourage more local production have strong economic development implications as
well.4
The environmentalist mantra – “Think globally, act locally” – could well be applied to the challenge of achieving
greater food equality and better health for the residents of suburban Cook County. With the largest number of
municipalities of any state in the U.S. (and widespread commitment to ‘home rule’), meaningful change on any issue
requires a focused, regional approach. For example, the metropolitan Chicago area is the truck and rail freight center
of North America, yet fresh food shipments often pass through impoverished sections of suburban Cook County on
their way to stores and restaurants in the city of Chicago. Food systems are not defined by municipal jurisdictions,
yet without transparency and regional coordination, disenfranchised communities will remain ‘food poor.’

1 
 

Page 36 of 126

 This report is a snapshot of the current food system in suburban Cook County and lays the groundwork for broader
regional planning around local food. Discussion papers in the past have typically focused on the city of Chicago.5
Suburban Cook County has much in common with Cook County as a whole, yet the area offers unique assets and
challenges in the development of a healthy food system.

While this report focuses on suburban Cook County, its

conclusions call for county-wide collaboration around creation of a food system that is health-promoting,
sustainable, resilient, diverse, fair, economically balanced, and transparent. Recommendations for achieving this fall
under three main areas.
1. RESOURCE ASSESSMENT
Increasing food production by utilizing available traditional and non-traditional land for
production.
2. FOOD AS AN ECONOMIC DRIVER
Supporting the development of food-related businesses that increase fresh access and develop
sustainable economies for low-income communities.
3. COORDINATION AND EDUCATION
Increasing transparency of local food systems to facilitate regional collaboration.

2 
 

Page 37 of 126

 INTRODUCTION
While earlier initiatives have addressed food system needs in the city of Chicago, little attention has been paid to
underserved populations in the remainder of Cook County. A superficial look at data from the suburban portion of
Cook County would indicate adequate access to fresh food, yet closer analysis of specific communities, particularly
in the south and southwest suburbs, tells a different story. This report provides background information to support
the development of a coordinated health-focused food system, and includes a description of current issues and
conditions of the suburban Cook County food system.

The Assessment Process
During an eight-month period, the authors worked closely with staff from the Communities Putting Prevention to
Work initiative (CPPW), as well as with the Suburban Cook County Food System Steering Committee charged with
developing this document. The process included:


Review of written reports and policies from all government levels and multiple agencies that affect food
systems.



Review of reports from both academic institutions and food system advocates.



Compilation of maps relevant to the food system principles and elements.



Review of food policies, ordinances, and reports from other municipalities within the U.S. and Canada.



In-person and phone interviews with staff from various county and municipal government agencies, as well
as non-profit agencies serving suburban Cook County.



Facilitation of six steering committee meetings during which members provided input and direction
regarding the content of this report.



Continued conversation through an on-line forum between meetings.



A public on-line survey sent to various advocacy and municipal groups.



Facilitation of a public forum on October 6, 2011 hosted by CPPW.



Preparation of various drafts with comments submitted by the steering committee.

A methodology that incorporated stakeholder input was utilized. The steering committee members represented
diverse community roles and served to define issues and guide data collection so that an accurate picture of the
suburban Cook County food system emerged.
The process also relied heavily on guidance from food advocate and expert Mark Winne, director of the Food Policy
Council of the National Community Food Security Coalition. His focus on the development of food policy councils
throughout North America provides much of the organization for this report, particularly his emphasis on the need
to look at projects, partners, and policy in the development of community food systems.6
This report also considers findings from the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP) document GO TO
2040, metropolitan Chicago’s first comprehensive regional plan in more than 100 years.7 CMAP’s Local Food
Chapter Outline8 was particularly helpful in the organization of this report. The focus of both these documents is
developing greater access to healthy, locally-sourced foods from the region.
This report is grounded by principles found in the Illinois Food, Farms, and Jobs Act of 2009. The act created a
food-based economic development strategy to enrich Illinois families, businesses, and communities (as well as the
state’s treasury) by:

3 
 

Page 38 of 126

 

Stimulating economic development by uniting our abundant resources: rich farmland, a temperate
climate, a rich farming heritage, and a large, diverse customer population.



Supplementing long-term public health strategies designed to curb childhood diabetes and obesity.



Ensuring food supply preparedness in the event of a natural or man-made emergency.



Providing strategies for sustainable economic growth based on the development of local food systems.

The Food Act strategy included progressive steps toward greater local food production, including:


Directing state agencies to align their missions in support of this suggested economic development, public
health, and emergency preparedness strategy.



Mandating that state institutions source at least 20% of their food locally by 2020.



Assembling a team to streamline rules and regulations governing local food production, processing, and
marketing.



Creating an Illinois Local Food, Farms, and Jobs Council to coordinate development of community-based
farm and food networks statewide, pooling funds from federal agencies and private entities to build local
farm and food networks.

Profile of Suburban Cook County
Cook County is the second most populous county in the United States. It is home to 5,194,675 people, or 40.5% of
all Illinois residents. Nearly half (48%) of those residents live in the suburban portion of the county outside the city
of Chicago. The racial composition of suburban Cook County is fairly homogeneous, with Whites making up 67% of
the population, Blacks 16%, Asians 7%, and 8% reporting themselves as some other race. Hispanics or Latinos cross
all racial categories and represent 19% of the total population. Suburban Cook County saw minimal change from
2000 to 2010 in any one racial subset and an average increase in Hispanics (see Figures 1 and 2).

Figure 1

4 
 

Page 39 of 126

 Figure 2

There are more than 130 incorporated municipalities in Cook County, the largest of which is the city of Chicago.
Outside of the city limits, suburban Cook County is divided into 30 townships.9 Township government is unique to
Midwestern and Northeastern states and most Canadian provinces. In Illinois, a township is a land parcel six miles
by six miles. Townships and municipalities each have powers and responsibilities that are exclusive from one
another.
A common theme of disparity in access to healthcare and fresh food emerged in a recent report released by the
CCDPH titled: WePlan 2015, Suburban Cook County Community Health Assessment and Plan. One in six residents
of suburban Cook County reports lack of access to healthy food. Problems purchasing fresh food doubled for survey
respondents reporting income of less than $60,000.00.

Over half the adults in suburban Cook County are

overweight or obese, as are roughly 40% of children. Three in four adults do not eat the recommended amount of
fresh fruits, and a large majority are not physically active.10 Additionally, obesity and smoking (the leading causes of
cardiovascular disease) are higher among the poor, less educated, and minorities. And pockets of poverty are
growing. An increase in poverty in suburban Cook County is seen among white men and women who previously
had high incomes. Finally, the report identified the need for improved systems and better coordination to address
all of the aforementioned problems.11
The Greater Chicago Food Depository has provided an even more detailed look at food insecurity in Cook County.12
The organization released a study in September 2011 providing community-level data in Cook County of the
number of individuals who are food insecure. USDA Economic Research Service defines food insecurity as a
household-level economic and social condition of limited or uncertain access to adequate food.13 Data was gathered
for all of Chicago's 77 community areas and 119 Cook County suburbs. The new findings point to strong links
between unemployment and food insecurity, and to high concentrations of food insecurity in communities on the
West and Southwest Sides of Chicago and in several Cook County suburbs. Among the key findings of that study:


In the city of Chicago, the overall rate of food insecurity is 20.6%; in suburban Cook County, 15.4%.



The highest rates of food insecurity in the city of Chicago were in Riverdale (40.8%), Washington Park
(34.0%), Englewood and north Lawndale (both at 31.2%). In suburban Cook County, the worst rates were
even more dramatic, with Ford Heights (55.5%), Robbins (45.0%) and Dixmoor (38.7%).

5 
 

Page 40 of 126

 

In the whole of Cook County, 36% of those who are food insecure - 304,528 individuals - earn more than
185% of the poverty level ($20,146 for a household of one) and are thus not eligible for most federal
nutrition programs.

Residents of Cook County live in neighborhoods that are highly segregated by race and ethnicity. The Urban
Institute found that of the 100 metropolitan areas in the United States, metro-Chicago ranked 91st out of 100 for
Latino-White segregation and 98th out of 100 for African-American/White segregation, with a dissimilarity index of
56.3 and 75.2 respectively, reported by Brown University’s US 2010 project, using 2010 Census data. The
dissimilarity index ranges from 0 to 100, where 100 reflects complete separation between two groups.14
Racial residential segregation has significant detrimental effects on health. According to a 2011 study by Thomas A.
LaVeist, et al., this is the case “not because (neighborhoods) are predominantly black or Hispanic, but rather due to
higher rates of poverty. Even persons with middle and relatively higher incomes are at greater risk when more of
their neighbors are poor.” The study notes that residential segregation “reduces access to the resources necessary to
support healthy lifestyles, including nutrient rich food.”15

We Can Do Better: Defining a Sustainable Food System
The ubiquitous nature of food systems has rendered their workings largely invisible to the average citizen (and to
most policymakers). Few Americans know where their food comes from, how it got to their grocery store, or why
they have the selections they do in the produce aisle. To further complicate the matter, food policy is made at
multiple levels with little-to-no coordination between jurisdictions.16 It is only recently that the American Planning
Association has included food systems for consideration in their work.17 Making food systems transparent allows
regions to bring appropriate partners to the table for collaboration and allows government agencies to make
informed policy choices. When addressed in a coordinated manner at a regional level, food policy debate can
organize discussion of multiple related issues including job creation, community building, hunger elimination, and
improvement of the environment. To that end, the American Dietetic Association, American Nurses Association,
American Planning Association, and American Public Health Association have established consensus on the
following principal characteristics of a health-focused food system:

Health-Promoting


Supporting the physical and mental health of all farmers, workers, and eaters.



Accounting for the public health impacts across the entire lifecycle of how food is produced, processed,
packaged, labeled, distributed, marketed, consumed, and disposed.

Sustainable


Conserving, protecting, and regenerating natural resources, landscapes, and biodiversity.



Meeting our current food and nutrition needs without compromising the ability of the system to meet
the needs of future generations.

Resilient


Thriving in the face of challenges.

Diverse


Including a diverse range of food production, transformation, distribution, marketing, consumption,
and disposable practices occurring at diverse scales: local, regional, national, and global.



Considering geographic differences in natural resources, climate, customs and heritage.



Appreciating and supporting a diversity of cultures, socio-demographics and lifestyles.

6 
 

Page 41 of 126

 

Providing a variety of health-promoting food choices for all.



Supporting fair and just communities and conditions for all farmers, workers, and eaters.



Providing equitable physical access to affordable food that is health promoting and culturally

Fair

appropriate.

Economically Balanced


Providing economic opportunities that are balanced across geographic regions of the country and at
different scales of activity, from local to global, for a diverse range of food system stakeholders.



Affording farmers, workers, and eaters opportunities to actively participate in decision making in all
sectors of the system.

Transparent


Providing opportunities for farmers, workers, and eaters to gain knowledge necessary to understand
how food is produced, transformed, distributed, marketed, consumed, and disposed.



Empowering farmers, workers, and eaters to actively participate in decision-making in all sectors of the
system.18

How Does Suburban Cook County Measure Up to Those Principles?
In addition to those indicators already referenced in the “Profile of Suburban Cook County” section, the following
facts provide points of comparison with the principles of a health-focused food system. These indicators were
identified by the steering committee and can be used as benchmarks for future assessment. As with other data sets
that aggregate the experiences of a highly-diverse area, there are large contrasts between communities not reflected
here. While the suburban Cook County assessment shows no glaring inequities, these same indicators could be used
at a community level assessment and tell a vastly different story.

Health-Promoting
The relationship between lack of access to fresh food and communities presenting unhealthy profiles needs to be
further explored and measured. Heart Disease, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes and issues related to
mental health have emerged as problems in the U.S. as a whole and can be linked to food access issues. Clearly,
suburban Cook County shows a similar profile.

Figure 3

Figure 4

Figure 6

Figure 7

Health Promoting (cont.)

7 
 

Page 42 of 126

 Figure 5

Percent of Suburban Cook County Residents Reporting
Their Mental Health to Re "Hot lGootl" in the Past 30 Days

3 to 30 days

- itiJFday-s
- Hum:

 

Figure 7

Perrent of Suburban Cool: County Residents
Reporting Having High Blood Pressure

4%

Don't Knowmot Sure
- No
- Yes

 

Figure 9

Percent of Suburban Cook County
Residents Reporting Having Diabetes

-No
-Ves

 

Figure 6

Percent of Suburban Cook County Residents
Reporting Having High Cholesterol

0.1%

Don't Sure

-Nu
-?res

 

Figure 8

Percent of Subu rban Cool: County Residents
Reporting Having Angina or Coronary Heart Disease

3% 0.2%

Don't anNot Sure
- No
- Yes

 

Figure 10

Percent of Suburban Cook County Residents Reporting
Having I'm-Diabetes or Borderline Diabetes

- No
- Yes

 

Suurcu: (.1qu Dcpurluu?ur Uj'PulIlie Hmlili. Subm'lvuu (funk (blurry b?elun'mrul Risk Fru'iur Surveillance System. 20?

Page 43 of 126

Resilient
Resiliency allows communities the ability to thrive in the face of economic downturns. Data collected from the U.S.
Census Current Population Survey (CPS) show that individuals with less education attainment experienced greater
percentage-point increases in their unemployment rates than their more educated counterparts.19 Higher levels of
education also offer greater options for changing career paths when necessary. As previously noted, unemployment
and low income are closely linked with higher levels of food insecurity. It is also important to remember that
suburban Cook County includes both wealthy and impoverished communities; thus the aggregated data presented
below obscures the severity of crisis on the low end.

Figure 11

9 
 

Page 44 of 126

 Resilient (cont.)

Figure 12

Percent with Bachelor's Degree at Higher

Sourre: US Camus. American Community 3 year Survey 2010

35%

35%

 

 

 

Cook County Chicago

Suburban Cook County

Page 45 of 126

 

10

Fair and Economically Balanced
As would be expected, income equity parallels that of employment levels. What are not obvious are the lack of
employment opportunities that exist in suburban Cook County.

The absence of small- and medium-sized

businesses in the southern region is responsible for unemployment and poverty rates far higher than the averages
depicted here. The absence of food-related businesses not only decreases access to fresh food but also minimizes a
community’s economic vibrancy and earning power.

Figure 13

11 
 

Page 46 of 126

 Transparent
Families living below the poverty line often live invisible lives. As is discussed in the section of the report dealing
with Access, only 70% of eligible families take advantage of food support programs, compounding the challenge of
poverty.

Figure 14

12 
 

Page 47 of 126

 THE SUBURBAN COOK COUNTY FOOD SYSTEM
While nearly half of all Cook County residents live in the suburban portion of the county, previous discussion papers
have almost exclusively focused on the city of Chicago.20 Suburban Cook County has much in common with Cook
County as a whole, but also presents unique assets and challenges in the development of a healthy and sustainable
food system. This report endeavors to capture a snapshot of suburban Cook County from the context of its existing
food system. Solutions addressing food system issues will require coordination with the city of Chicago and the
broader region.

Food System Components
A food system is a set of economic activities that encompasses production, transformation (processing,
packaging, labeling), distribution (wholesaling, storage, transportation), access (gardens, retail, institutional
food service, emergency food programs), consumption, and waste management. Given its scope, a region’s
food system is a prime driver of the health of a region’s economy, land use, environment, communities, and
residents.21
Community members provided input on the issues facing the suburban Cook County food system through an
online survey completed by 857 respondents and a public forum held on October 6, 2011 hosted by CPPW and
attended by 43 participants. Survey respondents and forum participants represented stakeholders within suburban
Cook County. Participants at the public forum were allowed to self-select from six discussion groups, five focusing
on the impact areas and one group focusing on the food system as a whole. Understandably, the group focusing on
the overall food system had issues that were the most extensive and complex. However, the broader system-wide
issues also emerged in the individual component discussions.


Lack of a coordinating body for Cook County’s food system.



Lack of understanding the cost of fresh food.



Finite water sources.



Complex policies for smaller farms.



Land availability.



Federal funding opportunities.



Addressing issues identified by the Food, Farms, and Jobs Act.



Lack of education regarding the health-related costs of not eating healthy food.

The following sections describe stakeholder input on the individual component areas of the food systems, discussion
of the issues, and recommendations for addressing the issues.

13 
 

Page 48 of 126

 PRODUCTION
STAKEHOLDERS WEIGH IN
Public Forum Issues


Planning and zoning hurdles encountered by proponents of community gardens.



Regulations at all governmental levels that constrain alternative food sales such as farmers’ markets.



Potential soil contamination in both urban and rural settings.



Hurdles encountered by those attempting to start a new business.



Limited outlets for extended-season produce sales such as winter farmers’ markets.



Lack of inventory of productive land within suburban Cook County.



The need for education in innovative farming methods such as vertical farming, rooftop gardens,
community gardens, and hydroponics.

Survey Issues



Waste elimination.
Absence of community stakeholders and residents ‘at the table’ in the agriculture policy and
rulemaking process relating to production.



Negative environmental impacts of farming methods.



Federal agriculture policy not supportive of the growing and raising of foods needed for a healthy
nation.



Farmland purchased by foreign countries or non U.S. organizations.

Illinois, home to 76,000 farms and more than 950 food manufacturing companies, is a solidly
agricultural state in the heart of America’s bread basket. Fully 80 percent of the state is farmland.
Yet only four percent of all the food eaten in Illinois is actually grown there. Most of the crops
grown in Illinois are exported to other states and nations, while similarly vast quantities of fresh
food are imported from other states to feed Illinois’ 12.8 million residents. With annual food
expenditures of $48 billion, Illinois’ current food system sends enormous amounts of money out of
state, and leaves many of its residents without adequate access to healthy fruits and vegetables.22
Much of Illinois’ reliance on imported food is due to its vast swath of flat, fertile soil that makes cultivation with
large machinery especially easy. “Row crop” farming in our state produces not consumable fresh food, but the
commodity crops of corn and soy beans (see Figure 15).
These crops are most frequently used for animal feed or, more recently, the production of ethanol fuel.

Federal

farm bills have increasingly provided subsidies for such production. Originally intended to prevent family farm
foreclosures, federal subsidies today reward large agribusinesses for expanded production that employs the use of
chemicals and mono-crop production.23 The past two rounds of the Farm Bill have provided greater support for the
production of local specialty crops with the 2012 version currently being negotiated to provide increased support for
an alternative food system that is equitable and sustainable.

14 
 

Page 49 of 126

 Figure 15

Increasingly, studies show that food production needs less space than previously considered. A particularly powerful
scenario was prepared by the Leopold Center of Iowa State University. Author David Swenson notes: “One of the
key assumptions in the study was that farmers in a region can grow enough of 28 kinds of fruit and vegetables to
meet demand, based on population, during a typical growing season (about four months of the year) and longer for
crops that could be stored, such as onions or garlic.” The land required for this production was equal to the
cropland in a single Iowa county. Swenson continues:
Although relatively few acres would be required to significantly increase fruit and vegetable
production in the region, the study also found that the job gains could be significant, compared to
the number of jobs currently generated by the same amount of land under conventional
agricultural production.
Another key assumption was that half of the increased production would be sold in producerowned stores, resulting in additional impacts on regional economies. The six-state region would
need about 1,405 establishments staffed by 9,652 people earning $287.64 million in labor
incomes.24
Another study shows that Cleveland, Ohio, and other post-industrial U.S. cities can generate up to 100 percent of
their current needs for fresh produce and other food items.25 The implication is that when assessing possible sites
for food production, one need no longer look only at large parcels of land that are zoned for agricultural production.
Smaller pockets including land that can be cultivated for school and community gardens must be considered.

15 
 

Page 50 of 126

 Criteria to be taken into account could include:


Water accessibility.



Soil contamination.



Zoning, including options for public spaces.



Composting opportunities.



Accessibility.



Alternative types of cultivation such as vertical gardening and hydroponic options.

With respect to zoning issues, as mentioned earlier, Illinois has the greatest number of municipalities of any U.S.
state. This means that with its focus on home rule, interpretations of federal and state policy vary widely regarding
options for food production. In order to provide consistency for food producers it has been suggested that we look
to provide model language for zoning and other food policy regulations.

Like natural resources, food does not

respect political boundaries. Roger Dahlstrom, Assistant Director for Community and Economic Development with
the Center for Governmental Studies at Northern Illinois University, suggests that we look to the language of storm
water legislation that speaks in terms of “sheds” to provide policy and ordinance guidance. In this format, local
ordinances defer to county guidelines.26
The good news is that suburban Cook County reflects several of the trends supporting local food production. While
farmland is decreasing, the number of small farms has increased by 23 percent from 2002 to 2007 (see Figure 16).
Production of specialty crops is up, while production of commodity crops such as corn and soybeans has gone
down.27 While suburban Cook County is rarely thought of in terms of commodity cultivation, at one time it served
as home to more rural communities.

Figure 16

Despite increased production and consumer interest, locally grown food accounts for a small segment of U.S.
agriculture. For local foods production to continue to grow, marketing channels and supply chain infrastructure
must deepen. A report by Sarah A. Low and Stephen Vogel for Amber Waves cited new information on farmers who
market foods locally. The marketing channels they used could aid private- and public-sector efforts to support the
local food production segment of the agricultural economy.28 This report indicates:

16 
 

Page 51 of 126

 

On a national level, marketing of locally produced foods, both direct-to-consumer and via intermediated
channels, grossed $4.8 billion in 2008—about four times higher than estimates based solely on direct-toconsumer sales.



Farms marketing local foods exclusively through intermediated channels reported $2.7 billion in local food
sales in 2008—over three times the value of local foods marketed exclusively through direct-to-consumer
channels and two times higher than the value of local foods marketed by farms using a combination of the
two channels.



Small farms (those with less than $50,000 in gross annual sales) accounted for 81 percent of all farms
reporting local food sales in 2008. They averaged $7,800 in local food sales per farm and were more likely to
rely exclusively on direct-to-consumer marketing channels, such as farmers’ markets and roadside stands.



Medium-sized farms (those with gross annual sales between $50,000 and $250,000) accounted for 17
percent of all farms reporting local food sales in 2008. They averaged $70,000 in local food sales per farm
and were likely to use direct-to-consumer marketing channels alone or a mix of direct-to-consumer and
intermediated marketing channels.



Large farms (those with gross annual sales of $250,000 or more) accounted for 5 percent of all farms
reporting local food sales in 2008. They averaged $770,000 in local food sales per farm and were equally
likely to use direct-to-consumer channels exclusively, intermediated channels exclusively, or a mixture of
the two.



Large farms accounted for 92 percent of the value of local food sales marketed exclusively through
intermediated channels.



For small and medium-sized farms with local food sales, more operators identified their primary
occupation as farming and devoted more time to their farm operation than operators of similarly sized
farms without local sales. Vegetable, fruit, and nut farms dominated local food sales.



Direct-to-consumer sales of food commodities were affected by climate and topography that favor fruit and
vegetable production, proximity to farmers’ markets and neighboring local food farms, and access to
transportation and information networks.29

Collection of data on organic production is relatively new. The 2007 Census of Agriculture collected preliminary
data and added an organic production survey in 2008. See Figure 17 for the initial 2007 assessment in Cook County.

17 
 

Page 52 of 126

 Figure 17

Production Recommendations:







Assess available traditional and non-traditional land for production.
Coordinate the multi-jurisdictional food-related regulations.
Extend access to fresh food through alternative sources.
Increase support for new and small- to medium-sized farms.
Address soil contamination in both urban and rural land.
Establish a coordinating body bringing all stakeholders to the table to advance a healthy food system.

PROCESSING
STAKEHOLDERS WEIGH IN
Public Forum Issues
Contributors did not choose to participate in a discussion group focused on processing at the community forum.

Survey Issues



Waste elimination.
Complexity of licensing and inspections needed for various types of food processors.



Complexity of zoning for agribusiness.



Lack of training and education for the food processing work force community.



Absence of stakeholders and residents ‘at the table’ in the agriculture policy and rulemaking process
related to processing.

If readers are struck by the irony of an agricultural state having to import 96% of its food, they might have a similar
reaction to the idea that the region lacks adequate facilities for processing locally grown fruits and vegetables. The
region’s geographic location and transportation system made it the center of America’s food chain, including
becoming the hub of the food industry with the creation of the Chicago Board of Trade.30
Initially, grain milling was the region’s most important food activity. By 1860 Illinois was the number one producer
of corn and wheat in the United States.31 The Union Stock Yards gave rise to a thriving meatpacking industry from

18 
 

Page 53 of 126

 the Civil War to the 1920s.32 According to the Chicago Historical Society’s Encyclopedia of Chicago, the wide
availability of milled grains by the late 1800s gave rise to mechanized bread factories that put small kitchens and
bakeries out of business. Proximity to the dairy stronghold of Wisconsin helped Chicago become home to many
dairy processors.33 The development of the confectionary industry including the production of Wrigley’s gum as
well as Tootsie Rolls, Tootsie Pops, Junior Mints, Cracker Jacks, Milk Duds, and Brach’s Candies, provided further
innovation for the food sector of a growing metropolis.34 The food service industry grew to accommodate hungry
workers and those needing to eat away from home.35 As a result, street foods flourished and Chicago saw a rise in
their famous Chicago-style hot dog. In 1955, the famed McDonald’s hamburger chain opened its first franchise in
Des Plaines, Illinois.36 Finally, Chicago’s location as a hub of land and sea distribution routes brought a diversity of
people – and foods – from all over the world. Germans, Irish, Polish, Italians, African Americans, Hispanics, and
Swedes arrived first, followed in rapid succession by French, Greeks, East Indians, Japanese, Koreans, Scots, and
Spanish immigrants.37 Today, the largest number of food manufacturing establishments in the Chicago area are
bakeries and tortilla manufacturers with 465 businesses. Fruit and vegetable preserving and specialty food
manufacturing is the smallest sector with only 69 reported establishments in 2009 (see Figure 18).

Figure 18

The Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business produced a white
paper titled From Farm to Fork: Innovations in the Chicago Food Industry.38 The report identifies five key trends
that are affecting innovation in the food industry today. These include a challenging economy; shifting
demographics that include the Baby Boom generation and a rising Hispanic presence; health concerns including a
rise in such diseases as obesity, heart disease, and diabetes; food safety and traceability of food products; and the
need for sustainable practices in all aspects of the food system. Each of these issues can be addressed through the
development of local food systems as they support a sustainable economy.
The concern most often expressed in the course of the research was a need for small food processing centers or
commercial kitchens in which value-added product can be produced. According to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) publication Alternative Enterprises: Value-added Agriculture, such processing has a strong
economic benefit for all players in the food system:

19 
 

Page 54 of 126

 Adding value to agricultural production contributes to the economic and environmental
sustainability of both farm and community. Adding value to an agricultural product offers farmers
the opportunity to receive a bigger share of the consumer’s food dollar. Value-added products can
open new markets, create recognition and appreciation for the farm, and extend the marketing
season. Value-added products can dramatically increase a farmer’s income. Value-added
agriculture is very important to any local economic development strategy. Jobs usually are created
in the local community which, in turn, supports additional jobs, yielding income that is spent
locally.39
Unfortunately, there are a limited number of commercial kitchens available for processing fresh product. Public
kitchens often used for small batch processing at a certified site include church, school, or restaurant kitchens.
However, availability of these facilities and of a licensed food handler is often limited.

Several USDA funding

sources are targeted at increasing food processing opportunities. Those aimed at developing community facilities,
value-added products, specialty crop promotion, and community food security are particularly significant.
State and local health department regulations present another challenge. State guidelines have recently been
modified to support the smaller producer. The Cottage Food Bill, for example, creates new opportunities for
farmers to engage in value-added processing while making it easier for aspiring entrepreneurs to start new local food
businesses by selling at any of Illinois 300-plus farmers’ markets.
The Cottage Food Bill (Senate Bill 840) changes Illinois’ food safety laws, allowing homemade non-potentially
hazardous baked goods, jams and jellies, fruit butter, dried herbs, and dried tea blends to be sold at farmers’ markets,
provided they are properly labeled as homemade products. Additionally, annual gross receipts from such sales must
not exceed $25,000; the “cottage food operation” must be registered; and the person preparing and selling the food
must have a valid Illinois Food Service Sanitation Manager Certificate. However, state policy is subject to local
interpretation, and there is a daunting lack of consistency across municipalities, challenging those who sell at several
farmers’ markets across the region.

Processing Recommendations:






Build on history in food processing.
Support the development of small, regional food processing centers or food hubs.
Coordinate the multi-jurisdictional food-related regulations.
Identify gaps in training and education relating to the food processing workforce.
Establish a coordinating body bringing all stakeholders to the table to advance a healthy food system.

20 
 

Page 55 of 126

 DISTRIBUTION
STAKEHOLDERS WEIGH IN
Public Forum Issues








Lack of connection between smaller farmers and logistics organizations.
Lack of staff for small producers.
Lack of access to food produced in collar counties that is being moved to Chicago markets.
Lack of information on warehouse and processing facilities.
Absence of regional food hubs.
Lack of transparency of the food distribution process.
Lack of coordination between alternative food sources and emergency food resources.

Survey Issues



Waste elimination.
Impact of rising oil costs on food distribution businesses.



Safe food distribution working conditions.



The need for clarity in licensing and inspections to accommodate different types and sizes of food
distribution businesses.



Absence of stakeholders and residents ‘at the table’ in the agriculture policy and rulemaking process
related to processing.

The Chicago metropolitan area (as defined by the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning) is the truck and rail
freight center of North America. Major distribution centers and intermodal hubs integrate trucking and rail,
contributing to our economy and its strong industrial base.40
Regional food hubs provide multiple services to small growers such as processing facilities, aggregation of crops,
marketing opportunities, and educational support. The Edible Economy Project in Bloomington, Illinois is working
with a diverse group of community members to realize the great economic potential of local food production,
processing, and consumption. The project’s long-term goal is to build a modern local food infrastructure, giving
farmers access to expanded markets and consumers access to fresh, healthy local foods. As a first step, the project is
creating a regional food hub in central Illinois. This food hub may be close enough to serve suburban Cook County
food producers.
Another area of potential in the distribution of fresh food is the phenomenon of food trucks.41 Communities are
currently looking at these mobile food providers as possible players in the greater distribution of fresh food options.
That option is, of course, not without its challenges. Food trucks have come under intense scrutiny by municipal
health regulation agencies and consumer protection agencies, as well as restaurant associations concerned about
unfair competition. Currently, most city rules prohibit food truck operators from preparing food on site. Although
licensing provisions exist for food carts on Park District land, attempts to come up with a broader ordinance have
failed. The University of Chicago’s Institute for Justice Clinic on Entrepreneurship has launched “My Streets My
Eats”, a campaign that shows citizens how to express support for mobile food vending.

21 
 

Page 56 of 126

 Distribution Recommendations:





Support the development of small, regional food distribution centers or food hubs.
Coordinate the multi-jurisdictional food-related regulations.
Research viability of small, mobile food distribution centers.
Establish a coordinating body bringing all stakeholders to the table to advance a healthy food system.

ACCESS
STAKEHOLDERS WEIGH IN
Public Forum Issues












Education regarding the use of public assistance aids like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program (SNAP) and the Women Infant and Children (WIC) program at farmers’ markets .
Lack of clear eligibility and application information for WIC and SNAP programs.
Lack of mobile WIC markets.
Lack of community gardens and Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) programs for food insecure
groups.
Language barriers inhibiting the use of public assistance aids.
Unawareness of affordable fresh food possibilities.
Lack of instruction regarding the use of fresh food in family meal options.
Coordination of organizations serving food insecure populations.
Untapped food programs to address food security issues.
Need for Farm to School initiatives that encourage schools to buy locally produced food.
Lack of institutional procurement of local food (hospitals, prisons, etc.).

Survey Issues


Waste elimination.



Impact of rising oil costs on food.



Lack of knowledge of fresh food preparation.



Lack of healthy food options in school lunches.



Lack of knowledge about food safety standards.

Public forum and online survey results identified food access as a social justice issue.

A 2001 study by Katie S.
42

Martin examined the relationship between food security/insecurity and social networks.

This study found that

social networks and participation in community life, or lack thereof, could either reduce or exacerbate the ill effects
of poverty. Roger Cooley, former domestic director of Heifer International, an Arkansas-based nonprofit that works
on global and U.S. food issues, suggests there is a shift away from the word hunger, with its implication that we
simply need to distribute more food, to the terms food security and community food security.43 Place does matter and
affects our health. For example, people who live in communities with safe sidewalks, ample parks, good public
transportation and ready access to fresh fruits and vegetables are 38 percent less likely to develop diabetes.44

22 
 

Page 57 of 126

 In suburban Cook County, some municipalities have less access than others. For example, poor communities have
fewer supermarkets and more fast food restaurants and convenience stores. They have limited green spaces, nearby
trails, recreation centers, or safe places to walk or play.
It is no surprise, then, that pockets of poverty coincide with the most food insecure populations in suburban Cook
County. The following map shows this parallel.

Figure 19

23 
 

Page 58 of 126

 This situation is made all the more challenging by the lack of public transportation in the area, one of the major
issues raised by participants at the public forum. While the city of Chicago has similar profiles of areas bereft of
fresh food options, residents can often use public transportation to access fresh food.
In 2011, Illinois Department of Health and Human Services reported 425,107 SNAP recipients in suburban Cook
County, 73% of those recipients were children (see Figure 20). According to the 2010 Illinois Link/EBT Transaction
Report, only two suburban Cook County farmers’ markets accept SNAP and WIC payment, Oak Park Farmers’
Market and Evanston Farmers’ Market (see Figure 21) leaving many thousands of SNAP recipients without the
opportunity to purchase fresh foods at farmers’ markets. Unfortunately, equipping all of the suburban Cook County
farmers’ markets with EBT machines may not solve the problem. Many of the areas with low food access are not
served by farmers’ markets at all (see map below).

Figure 20

Figure 21

Reported Illinois Farmers Markets Offering EBT
Name of Market
Illinois Products Farmers' Market
Urbana's Market at the Square
Oak Park Farmers' Market
Woodstock Farmers Market
Logan Square Farmers Market (Outdoor)
61st Street Farmers Market
Daley Plaza
Lincoln Square
Division Street
South Shore
Beverly
Green City Market
Green City Market
Peoria River Front Market
Downtown Bloomington Farmers' Market
Evanston Farmers’ Market
Bronzeville Community Market

Opening

Closing

Vendors

5/13/2010
5/1/2010
5/1/2010
5/1/2010
6/6/2010
5/15/2010
5/13/2010
6/8/2010
5/15/2010
6/9/2010
5/16/2010
1/15/2010
Year-round
6/5/2010
5/15/2010
5/6/2010
6/5/2010

10/21/2010
11/6/2010
10/30/2010
12/18/2010
10/31/2010
12/18/2010
10/21/2010
10/26/2010
10/30/2010
10/27/2010
10/24/2010
12/23/2010
Year-round
9/25/2010
10/30/2010
11/6/2010
10/30/2010

35
75
27
30
39
17
35
25
30
3
8
40
55
65
40
34
7

Source: 2010 Illinois Link/EBT Transactions Report45

24 
 

Page 59 of 126

 Figure 22

25

Suburban Cook County Fond Insecurity
and Farmers' Markets, 2009

 

 

 

  

?r Farmers' Markets

County
- Chicago
Unincorparated Cook County

 

Insecurity Rate
less than 10%



- 15%tu2096
- 20%to30%

- Greater than 30%
Data Not Available

 

Sources: Greater?'licagc- Fund Depositary; Miles
U.S. Department urngricullure 0 5 1o

 

 

N?ll'llIlN ILLIHEII 
5; Center for .
Cavernmulal Stutter-

Page 60 of 126

 

Of additional concern is the fact that only 70% of Cook County families who are eligible for SNAP benefits are
enrolled in the program. The 2001 Martin study echoes this phenomenon nationally. The study found a high
percentage of food insecure families nationwide were not participating in food programs. In her study, 45 percent
did not receive food stamps, 67 percent did not use food pantries, and 37 percent who were eligible for the WIC
program did not participate in it.46

Access Recommendations:






Educate public on food programs supporting the food insecure.
Increase public space for community engagement and food production (parks, community gardens, etc.).
Coordinate the multi-jurisdictional food-related regulations.
Establish a coordinating body bringing all stakeholders to the table to advance a healthy food system.

WASTE MANAGEMENT
STAKEHOLDERS WEIGH IN
Public Forum Issues




Lack of institutional knowledge regarding composting and regulations that govern the practice.
Compost site certification.
Understanding where waste management belongs in the food system -the beginning or the end.

Survey Issues


Local development of alternative or new food waste management technologies.



The cost of unnecessary waste and processing.



Shrinking landfill availability.



Unclear safety and wages standards for waste management laborers.

Organic waste, or food scraps, account for more than one third of the waste brought to Illinois landfills.
Composting food waste can greatly reduce this volume.

In Cook County, the average individual produces nearly

315 pounds of compostable waste each year (see Figure 23).

Figure 23

26 
 

Page 61 of 126

 There are 267 waste composting operations in the United States, and every state around Illinois licenses food waste
composting facilities. Yet until the 2009 passage of Composting Bill SB99, institutions in Illinois could only compost
organic waste on their own property and were forbidden from transporting it to another site.

Illinois Composting

Bill SB99 allows facilities to transport waste off-site for composting. Yet Illinois restaurants, grocery stores, and
festivals seeking to compost food waste must incur hefty transportation expenses and create significant
environmental impact to do so. Several investors are developing proposals for food waste composting facilities in
Illinois. Chicago Composts, LLC has developed a business plan to pick up food waste from restaurants and sell the
end product as garden-enriching compost. Food scrap pick-up businesses are emerging, including one serving
residents and restaurants in northern Cook County (Collective Resource – Evanston) and a new CSA that includes
food scrap pick-up along with delivery of the CSA share (Common Roots Sustainable Farm – delivering to
Evanston). Other waste management issues that surfaced at the public forum included:

Waste Management Recommendations:




Coordinate the multi-jurisdictional food-related regulations.
Develop facilities for off-site food waste composting.
Educate communities and institutions on composting options.

LOOKING TO THE FUTURE
Recommendations
Recommendations addressing both system-wide issues and component-specific issues are thematically grouped into
three general areas.

RESOURCE ASSESSMENT
Increasing food production by utilizing available traditional and non-traditional land for production.
The issue of greatest urgency identified in this report is the need for increased production of healthy food. There is
no shortage of demand. The report’s most disturbing finding is the degree of inequality in access to fresh food,
particularly for communities in southern suburban Cook County. These needs could be accommodated through
local food production -- specifically community gardens, farmers’ markets and community supported agriculture.
This requires assessment of appropriate smaller and untainted parcels of land. Education for future farmers in this
new area of specialty crop production must also be developed and made available. Increasing independent “corner
store” options could supply additional products needed for healthy lives. Innovative avenues of funding for such
initiatives need be developed.


Assess available traditional and non-traditional land for production.



Increase public space for community engagement and food production (parks, community gardens, etc.).



Address soil contamination in both urban and rural land.



Addressing finite water sources.

FOOD AS AN ECONOMIC DRIVER
Supporting the development of food-related businesses that increase fresh access and develop sustainable economies for
low-income communities.
One of the most exciting outcomes reported by regions with well-developed food systems is the opportunity for
food-related businesses to not only increase fresh food access, but also develop sustainable economies.
particularly true for minority communities with low access to food and few minority-owned businesses.

27 
 

Page 62 of 126

This is

 These communities present untapped markets, and community based development organizations could pave the
way forward in this initiative. Community based development organizations or CBDOs are nonprofit developers
who work to revitalize communities affected by economic downturn, including creation of new commercial space.47
A significant challenge is convincing businesses to locate in underserved areas. Successfully addressing this issue will
require a coordinated effort to help communities better identify their own assets and “sell” themselves to funders
and businesses. In addition, communities must focus on developing small- and medium-sized businesses that not
only serve residents but also generate local income. Creative investment that develops organically from within a
community provides low-income residents with increased connection to social networks – a proven antidote to food
insecurity.48
Business Development


Build on history in food processing.



Increase support for new and small to medium sized farms.



Support the development of small, regional food processing centers or food hubs.



Support the development of small, regional food distribution centers or food hubs.

Alternative Access Point


Extend access to fresh food through alternative sources.



Research viability of small, mobile food distribution centers.



Develop facilities for off-site food waste composting.

COORDINATION AND EDUCATION
Increasing transparency of local food systems to facilitate regional collaboration.
This report identifies unique challenges presented in suburban Cook County such as numerous municipal
regulatory codes and large inequalities in food access. Challenges highlighted throughout the report are issues of
long standing that demand an organized and coordinated response. A Cook County food policy council could
provide the coordination necessary to address these complex issues. This snapshot will allow for more informed
policy decisions to be made within the larger context of Cook County.


Establish a coordinating body bringing all stakeholders “to the table” to advance a healthy food system.



Coordinate the multi-jurisdictional food-related regulations.



Educate public on food programs supporting the food insecure.



Educate public on food preparation and nutrition.



Educate communities and institutions on composting options.



Identify gaps in training, education, and equity relating to the food system workforce.



Identify alternative funding sources for regional food system planning.

What Is a Food Policy Council?
According to the 2009 report, Food Policy Councils: Lessons Learned, food policy councils act both as forums for
food issues and platforms for coordinated action.49

Typically, food policy councils have representation from the

entire food system, including representatives from food security and food advocacy organizations. The primary
roles of a food policy council are to educate policy makers on important food system issues and priorities impacting
stakeholders and to provide concrete civic engagement opportunities. Ideally, the resulting decisions from the policy
makers will provide forward movement of the food policy council’s mission.

28 
 

Page 63 of 126

 The report also highlighted four possible functions of a food policy council:


To serve as forums for discussing food issues.



To foster coordination between sectors in the food system.



To evaluate and influence policy.



To launch or support programs and services that address local needs.

Food policy expert Mark Winne suggests that in order to transform a food system into one that provides individual,
community, and environmental health, the projects, partners, and policies potentially impacting the system must first
be considered.


Projects are singular activities that social justice and local food system advocates pursue, such as farmers’
markets, food banks, and improving delivery of food assistance programs.



Partners are the nexus of relationships and the wellspring of social capital that we draw from to accomplish
our work in today’s complex world.



Policy “makes the right prevalent,” allowing organizers to move in the same direction at the same time.50
Policy opens the doors to possibility.

Winne makes the point that the potential for promoting food security, local food systems, and economic justice lies
at the local and state levels because this is the arena in which people and small, local organizations participate.
Further, low-income families are more likely to be food secure if their connection to local social networks is high.51
Therefore, the shift to a community food security framework, looking at existing projects and partners and
identifying gaps within, would be helpful. Food security would be more successful if driven by a coordinated effort
to identify the unique needs of a community and the partners and projects that would yield the greatest impact. See
Appendix A for a list of illustrative policies, partners and projects at the federal, state and local levels.

Why Establish a Food Policy Council?
A number of suburban Cook County residents, in particular those living in the south and southwest regions, lack
ready access to healthy food.52 The establishment of a Cook County food policy council would be the first step in
coordinating and promoting healthy food access for all Cook County residents. Food policy councils develop and
strengthen relationships between government, non-profit, private organizations, businesses, and residents. Cook
County government is uniquely positioned to lead this effort to ensure all residents have access to healthy food. Food
systems are not defined by jurisdiction and any effort to address food system issues in suburban Cook County must
also consider and coordinate with Chicago and the broader region.
The food economy is at the core of survival in any community. Above all else, the purpose of this food policy
council would be to develop a sustainable system of food security that allows citizens to eat healthy local fare and
find work with dignity within their communities.

CONCLUSION
The Suburban Cook County Food System Steering Committee established from the outset a commitment to develop
a healthy food system that embraces the principles of health promotion, sustainability, resiliency, diversity, fairness,
economic balance, and transparency. Addressing the issues of social inequity as they exist in food security is both a
major focus and the major challenge associated with this project. Suburban Cook County is an area of both great
wealth and great poverty, where services to underserved communities remain uncoordinated. These are issues of
long standing in which a food policy council could play a leading role.

29 
 

Page 64 of 126

 ENDNOTES
                                                            
1
Cook County Department of Public Health. (2010). The State of Obesity in Suburban Cook County. Retrieved from
http://www.cookcountypublichealth.org/files/pdf/State%20of%20Obesity_032210,pdf.
2
The Greater Food Depository. (2009). Map the Meal Gap 2009.
3
Chicago Food Policy Advisory Council (2008). Building Chicago’s Community Food Systems: A Report by the Chicago Food Policy Advisory
Council. http:/www.chicagofoodpolicy.org.
4
Jarvis, B. (2009, September 04). Can a Farm State Feed Itself?. Yes!, Retrieved from http://www.yesmagazine.org/neweconomy/eating-in
5
Chicago Food Policy Advisory Council. (2008). Building Chicago’s Community Food Systems: A Report by the Chicago Food Policy
Advisory Council. http:/www.chicagofoodpolicy.org.
6
Winne, M. (2008). Closing the Food Gap, Resetting the Table in the Land of Plenty. Beacon Pr.
7
Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning. (2010). GO TO 2040, Comprehensive Regional Plan. Retrieved from:
http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/2040/main.
8
Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning. (2010). GO TO 2040, Comprehensive Regional Plan, Local Food Chapter Outline. Retrieved
from: http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/2040/local-food-systems.
9
U.S. Census. (2007). Illinois Congressional Districts by County Subdivisions. Retrieved from:
http://www.census.gov/geo/www/cd109th/IL/mcd_c9_17.pdf.
10
Cook County Department of Public Health. (2010). The State of Obesity in Suburban Cook County. Retrieved from
http://www.cookcountypublichealth.org/files/pdf/State%20of%20Obesity_032210.pdf.
11
Cook County Department of Public Health. (2011), WePlan 2015, Suburban Cook County Community Health Assessment and Plan
(unpublished document), Oak Forest, Illinois.
12
The Greater Food Depository. (2009). Map the Meal Gap 2009.
13
Nord, M., & Coleman-Jensen, A. (2011, September 7). Food Security in the United States: Definitions of Hunger and Food security.
Retrieved from http://www.ers.usda.gov/Briefing/FoodSecurity/labels.htm.
14
Urban Institute. (2012, January). Urban Institute Analysis of Brown University US 2010 and 2010 Census Data Grading the Top 100 Metros.
Retrieved from http://datatools.metrotrends.org/charts/metrodata/rankMap_files/EquityMap_files/RankMapLatino.cfm.
15
LaVeist, T., Gaskin, D., & Trujillo, A. (2011). Segregated Spaces, Risky Places: The Effects of Racial Segregation on Health Inequalities. Joint
Center for Political and Economic Studies.
16
Fisher, A., Roberts, S. Seattle City Council. (2011). Community Food Security Coalition Recommendations for Food Systems Policy in
Seattle. Retrieved from: http://www.foodsecurity.org/pub/Food_System_Policy_Recommendations-Seattle.pdf.
17
Pothukuchi, K., Glosser, G. and Kaufman, J. American Planning Association. (2007). Community and Regional Food Planning.
18
Healthy, Sustainable Food System Collaboration, comprised of the American Dietetic Association, American Medical Association,
American Nurses Association, American Planning Association and American Public Health Association. (2010, June 10). Principles of a
Healthy, Sustainable Food System. Retrieved from:
http://www.planning.org/nationalcenters/health/pdf/HealthySustainableFoodSystemsPrinciples.pdf.
19
Current Population Survey. (2008). The Current Population Survey (CPS) is a monthly survey of households conducted by the Bureau
of Census for the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
20
Chicago Food Policy Advisory Council. (2008). Building Chicago’s Community Food Systems: A Report by the Chicago Food Policy Advisory
Council. http:/www.chicagofoodpolicy.org.
21
Fisher, A., Roberts, S. Seattle City Council. (2011). Community Food Security Coalition Recommendations for Food Systems Policy in
Seattle. Retrieved from: http://www.foodsecurity.org/pub/Food_System_Policy_Recommendations-Seattle.pdf.
22
Jarvis, B. (2009, September 04). Can a Farm State Feed Itself?. Yes!, Retrieved from http://www.yesmagazine.org/neweconomy/eating-in
23
Gottlieb, R. and Joshi, A. (2010). Food Justice. Cambridge: Massachusetts Institute of Technology Press, pp. 80-83.
24
Swenson, D. (March 30, 2010). Expanding the Fruit and Vegetable Industry in the Upper Midwest Could Have a Huge Economic
Impact in the Region. Beginning Farmer, Retrieved from http://www.beginningfarmers.org/leopold-center-studies-potential-forincreased-fruitvegetable-production-in-the-midwest/.
25
Grewal, S. S., & Grewal, P. S. (2011). Can Cities Become Self-reliant in Food? J. Cities, doi:10.1016/j.cities.2011.06.003
26
Center for Neighborhood Technology & Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago. (2007, May). Stormwater
Solutions That Hold Water: Envisioning Green Best Practices in the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (mwrd).
Roosevelt University, Chicago, IL. Retrieved from http://www.cnt.org/repository/CNT-MWRD-workshop_report-7-07.pdf.
27
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Census of Agriculture. (2007).
28
Low, S and Vogel, S. (December 2011). Local Foods Marketing Channels Encompass a Wide Range of Producers.
http://www.ers.usda.gov/AmberWaves/December11/Features/LocalFoodMarketing.htm.
29
Low, S., & Vogel, S. (November 2011). Direct and Intermediate Marketing of Local Foods in the United States, ERR-128, U.S. Department
of Agriculture, Economic Research Service.
30
Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship, University of Chicago and Chicagoland Entrepreneurial Center. (2009). From Farm to Fork:
Innovations in the Chicago Food Industry.

30 
 

Page 65 of 126

                                                                                                                                                                                                 
31
Raleigh, C. (2005). Agriculture. In Encyclopedia of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Chicago Historical Society. Retrieved from
http://encyclopedia.chicagohistory.org/pages/30.html.
32
Wade, L.C. (2005). Meatpacking. In Encyclopedia of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Chicago Historical Society. Retrieved from
http://encyclopedia.chicagohistory.org/pages/804.html.
33
Kraig, B. (2005). Food Processing: Local Market. In Encyclopedia of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Chicago Historical Society. Retrieved from
http://encyclopedia.chicagohistory.org/pages/468.html.
34
Kraig, B. (2005). Restaurants. In Encyclopedia of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Chicago Historical Society. Retrieved from
http://encyclopedia.chicagohistory.org/pages/1066.html.
35
Kraig, B. (2005). Restaurants. In Encyclopedia of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Chicago Historical Society. Retrieved from
http://encyclopedia.chicagohistory.org/pages/1066.html.
36
(2005). McDonalds Corp. In Encyclopedia of Chicago, Chicago, IL: Chicago Historical Society. Retrieved from
http://encyclopedia.chicagohistory.org/pages/799.html.
37
Baruch, M. (2007). Street Food Chicago: A Complete Book of Original Recipes, History and Stories About the Most Loved Foods in the City.
Chicago, IL: LBCM Publ.
38
Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship, University of Chicago and Chicagoland Entrepreneurial Center. (2009). From Farm to Fork:
Innovations in the Chicago Food Industry.
39
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Services. (n.d.). Alternative Enterprises: Value-added Agriculture.
Retrieved from website: ftp://ftp-fc.sc.egov.usda.gov/Economics/AltEnterprise/info_valueadded.pdf.
40
Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning. (2010). GO TO 2040, Comprehensive Regional Plan. Retrieved from:
http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/2040/main.
41
Eng, M. (2011, September 28). Food entrepreneurs grow sweet on Emanuel. Chicago Tribune. Retrieved from
http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2011-09-28/news/ct-met-chicago-food-policies-20110928_1_food-trucks-matt-maroni-food-carts.
42
Martin, K. (2001), Food Security and Community: Putting the Pieces Together, Hartford Food System.
43
Winne, M. (2008). Closing the Food Gap: Resetting the Table in the Land of Plenty. Boston: Beacon Press, pp. 168-169.
44
Auchincloss AH, Diez Roux AV, Mujahid MS, Shen M, Bertoni AG, Carnethon MR. (2009). Neighborhood resources for physical activity
and healthy foods and incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus: The multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis. Arch Intern Med, 169(18), 16981704. Retrieved from http://archinte.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/full/169/18/1698.
45
Smith, S., Stieren, P. (2010) Illinois Link/EBT Transactions Summary Report. Retrieved from
http://www.agr.state.il.us/farmersmarket/EBTReport2010.pdf.
46
Martin, K. (2001). Food Security and Community: Putting the Pieces Together, Hartford Food System: Hartford Connecticut.
47
Rubin, H. (August 1994). There Aren’t Going to Be Any Bakeries Here if There Is No Money to Afford Jellyrolls: Tthe Organic Theory of
Community Based Development in Social Problems, Vol 41, No. 3.
48
Martin, K. (2001). Food Security and Community: Putting the Pieces Together, Hartford Food System: Hartford Connecticut.
49
Allen, E., Clawson, L., Cooley, R., deCoriolis, A., & Fiser, D. Chicago Food Policy Advisory Council. (2008). Building Chicago’s Community
Food Systems. Retrieved from: http:/www.chicagofoodpolicy.org.
50
Winne, M. (2008). Closing the Food Gap: Resetting the Table in the Land of Plenty. Boston: Beacon Press.
51
Martin, K. (2001). Food Security and Community: Putting the Pieces Together, Hartford Food System: Hartford Connecticut.
52
Block, D., Chavez, N. and Birgen, J. Report to the Public. Chicago, IL: Chicago State University. (2008). Finding Food in Chicago and the
Suburbs: The Report of the Northeastern Illinois Community Food Security Assessment.

31 
 

Page 66 of 126

 APPENDIX A
Prepared by Debbie Hillman
Prepared for the Cook County Food System Steering Committee Report

HEALTHY, FAIR, AND SUSTAINABLE FOOD SYSTEMS:
Successful Local Food Policies, Projects, and Partners
February 2012

CURRENT POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR LOCAL FOOD SYSTEMS APPLICABLE IN COOK COUNTY
FEDERAL
1. KNOW YOUR FARMER, KNOW YOUR FOOD (USDA)
Not a separate law or policy, but a coordinating framework adopted by the USDA. Here is the description from
the KYF, KYF homepage.
http://www.usda.gov/wps/portal/usda/usdahome?navid=KYF_MISSION
Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food (KYF2) is a USDA-wide effort to carry out President Obama's commitment
to strengthening local and regional food systems.
We know that demand for local and regional foods is strong, as consumers across the country are looking to
connect with their food and the people who grow and raise it:
 The number of farmers markets has more than tripled in the past 15 years and there are now more than 7,175
around the country;
 In 1986 there were two community supported agriculture operations, today there are over 4,000;
 There are farm to school programs in 48 states, totaling more than 2,200 and up from two in 1996;
 All 50 states in the U.S. have agricultural branding programs, such as "Jersey Fresh" or "Simply Kansas;"
 As Governor of Iowa, Tom Vilsack started one of the first food policy councils. Today there are over 100 food
policy councils;
 And the National Restaurant Association declared "locally sourced meats and seafood" and "locally grown
produce" as the top two trends for 2011.
Local and regional markets often provide farmers with a higher share of the food dollar, and money spent at a local
business often continues to circulate within community, creating a multiplier effect and providing greater
economic benefits to the area.
An Economic Research Service Study (May 2010) identified barriers to local food market entry and expansion,
including capacity constraints for farms, a lack of infrastructure for moving local food into mainstream markets,
and regulatory uncertainties. This is the work of the Initiative.
Our mission is to strengthen the critical connection between farmers and consumers and supports local and
regional food systems. Through this initiative, USDA integrates programs and policies that:
 Stimulate food- and agriculturally-based community economic development;
 Foster new opportunities for farmers and ranchers;
 Promote locally and regionally produced and processed foods;
 Cultivate healthy eating habits and educated, empowered consumers;
 Expand access to affordable fresh and local food; and
 Demonstrate the connection between food, agriculture, community and the environment.

32
Page 67 of 126

 Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food also leads a national conversation about food and agriculture to strengthen
the connection between consumers and farmers.
Thanks to the 2008 Farm Bill, there is more support for local and regional agriculture than ever. To make the most
of our programs we are working to foster innovative, effective, and open government. While there is no office,
staff, or budget dedicated to KYF2, Deputy Secretary Kathleen Merrigan chairs a task force of USDA employees
representing every agency within the Department in order to break down bureaucratic silos, develop commonsense solutions for communities and farmers, and foster new partnerships inside USDA and across the country.
2.

LOCAL FARMS, FOOD, AND JOBS ACT S. 1773 AND H.R. 3286
This bill is currently in the pipeline in Congress. Currently, there are only two Illinois co-sponsors (Jan
Schakowsky - 9th district and Daniel Lipinski - 3rd district). Here is the summary as taken from the National
Sustainable Agriculture Coalition website: http://sustainableagriculture.net/our-work/local-food-bill/
Sponsored by Representative Chellie Pingree (Maine) and Senator Sherrod Brown (Ohio)
The Local Farms, Food, and Jobs Act will improve federal farm bill programs that support local and regional farm
and food systems. This legislation will help farmers and ranchers engaged in local and regional agriculture by
addressing production, aggregation, processing, marketing, and distribution needs and will also assist consumers
by improving access to healthy food and direct and retail markets. And of utmost importance, this legislation will
provide more secure funding for critically important programs that support family farms, expand new farming
opportunities, and invest in the local agriculture economy.

STATE OF ILLINOIS
Local Food legislation passed in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012
96th General Assembly (2009-2010)
1. ILLINOIS FOOD, FARMS, AND JOBS ACT
HB3990
Public Act 96-579
Rep. Julie Hamos
Commissions the Illinois Local Food, Farms, and Jobs Council to facilitate development of an Illinois-based food
and farm economy, whereby Illinois farmers grow diverse foods and other farm products for Illinois consumers.
Goals are based on report commissioned in 2007: Local Food, Farms, and Jobs: Growing the Illinois Economy
(2009, 48 pages). www.foodfarmsjobs.org
Sets forth procurement goals for state agencies and state-funded institutions. Authorizes the development of a
labeling and certification program, whereby a label may be placed on local farm and food products that are grown,
processed, packaged, and distributed by Illinois citizens or businesses located wholly within the borders of Illinois.
2.

FARM FRESH SCHOOLS PROGRAM
HB78
Public Act 96-0153
Rep. Sandy Cole
Creates the Farm Fresh Schools Program Act. Provides that the Department of Agriculture, in cooperation with
the State Board of Education and the Department of Public Health, shall create the Farm Fresh Schools Program.
Provides that the intent of the Program is to reduce obesity and improve nutrition and public health, as well as
strengthen local agricultural economies by increasing access to and promoting the consumption of locally grown
fruits and vegetables in schools and increasing physical activities and programs that promote pupil wellness.
Provides that the Department of Agriculture and the State Board of Education shall jointly administer a process to
review grant proposals and award grants on a competitive basis to eligible applicants to implement the Program.
Creates the Farm Fresh Schools Program Fund as a special fund in the State treasury.

3.

ILLINOIS FRESH FOOD FUND (DCEO Capital Bill)
SB1221
Public Act 96-0039
Sen. Trotter

33
Page 68 of 126

 The Fresh Food Fund was established in the 2009 Illinois Jobs Now! capital bill to incentivize and facilitate the
creation of grocery stores in urban communities statewide.
4.

OBESITY PREVENTION INITIATIVE
HB3767
Public Act 96-0155
Rep. Coulson
Provides that the Department of Public Health shall organize hearings on the health effects and costs of obesity
and the need to address the obesity epidemic. Provides that the hearing officers shall provide a report on the
hearings. Provides that the Department shall grant funds to one or more non-profit organizations or local public
health departments to conduct a statewide education campaign

5.

EPA COMPOSTING FACILITIES
SB99
Public Act 96-0418
Sen. Steans
Amends the Environmental Protection Act. Redefines the term "compost", "compostable material", and "food
scrap" to enable commercial food scrap composting. Exempts certain types of facilities, sites, portions of facilities,
and portions of sites from regulation as pollution control facilities.

6.

FARMERS MARKET TECHNOLOGY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
HB4756
Public Act 96-1088
Rep. LaShawn Ford
Creates the Farmers' Market Technology Improvement Program Act. Provides that out of funds appropriated to
the Department of Human Services for the LINK program, the Department, in cooperation with the Illinois
Department of Agriculture, shall use whatever monies are necessary to implement the Farmers' Market
Technology Improvement Program to assist nontraditional fresh food markets, such as farmers' markets, Green
Carts, market boxes, farm stands and mobile farm stands, produce stands, and other open-air markets, to develop
the capability to accept wireless electronic payment cards, including electronic benefits transfer cards or LINK
cards, and maintain the equipment usage. Provides that the purpose of the program is to increase access to fresh
fruits and vegetables and other LINK eligible food products, including quality meat and dairy, for all Illinois
residents by allowing LINK program participants to redeem their SNAP benefits at nontraditional fresh food
markets.

7.

CHEMICAL DRIFT SPECIALTY CROP FARM REGISTRY
SJR105
Adopted
Sen. David Koehler
Creates voluntary GIS website registry for organic and specialty crop farms. Purpose is to help conventional
farmers and chemical applicators avoid damaging sensitive crops.

8.

FARM-TO-SCHOOL DATABASE (Local Food, Farms, and Jobs Act)
SB615
Public Act 96-1095
Sen. Linda Holmes
Creates a farm-to-school database to facilitate connection between farmers and schools. To be developed jointly
by Department of Agriculture and Local Food, Farms, and Jobs Council.

9.

PUBLIC HEALTH - HONEY EXEMPT
SB2959
Public Act 96-1028
Sen. David Luechtefeld
Amends the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Criminal Code of 1961 to include in the definition of
"raw agricultural commodity", honey that is in the comb or that is removed from the comb and in an
unadulterated condition. Further amends the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act to provide that
notwithstanding any other provision of the Act, the Department of Public Health may not regulate honey that is in
the comb or that is removed from the comb and in an unadulterated condition. Provides that both forms of honey
are exempt from the provisions of the Act.

34
Page 69 of 126

 97th General Assembly (2011-2012)
1. FARMERS MARKET TASK FORCE
SB1852
Public Act 97-0394
Sen. David Luechtefeld
Creates a task force to review the rules and laws defining what products can be sold at farmers’ markets, as well as
sanitation and food preparation requirements. The 24- member task force will then assist the Illinois Department
of Public Health (IDPH) in developing and implementing administrative rules ensuring consistent statewide
farmers’ market regulations.
2.

FOOD HANDLING-COTTAGE FOOD
SB840
Public Act 97-0393
Sen. David Koehler
Allows homemade foods like jams, cookies and cakes to be sold at farmers’ markets. Cottage food vendors must
meet the following conditions for their products to be sold at Illinois’ farmers’ markets:

3.

LIQUOR CRAFT BREWER DISTRIBUTOR
SB754
Public Act 97-0005
Sen. Donne Trotter
Amends the Liquor Control Act of 1934. Provides that a brew pub licensee may simultaneously hold a craft brewer
license. Defines "craft brewer".

4.

DCEO STRATEGIC PLAN AGRITOURISM
HB3244
Public Act 97-0392
Rep. Kay Hatcher
Allows the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity (DCEO) to develop and implement a statewide
strategic plan to increase agricultural tourism.

5.

SENATE RESOLUTION
SR0530
Adopted Feb. 9,2012
Sen. D. Koehler
Urges Congress to adopt a farm bill that supports and promotes the development of local and regional food
systems.
Legislators in Cook County who Support local foods
All Cook County state legislators in office in 2007 and 2009 voted for the Illinois Food, Farms, and Jobs Acts (both
bills were unanimously passed except for one southern Illinois Senator in 2009).
Cook County legislators who have been leaders in local foods include:
Cong. Bobby Rush
Cong. Jan Schakowsky
State Sen. John Cullerton
State Sen. Jacqueline Collins
State Sen. Heather Steans
State Sen. Don Harmon
State Sen. Toi Hutchison
State Rep. LaShawn Ford
Former State Rep. Julie Hamos (now Director of Illinois Healthcare and Family Services)

35
Page 70 of 126

 ILLINOIS COMMUNITY COLLEGES
ILLINOIS GREEN ECONOMY NETWORK (IGEN): The Role of Community Colleges in Developing the Illinois Local
Food System
(2011, 28 pages) Report of the IGEN Local Food Task Force. www.igencc.org
REGIONAL (MULTI-COUNTY)
CMAP GO TO 2040 PLAN
"Promote Sustainable Local Food" (2010, 18 pages), one of 12 major recommendations by the Chicago Metropolitan Agency
for Planning. CMAP currently working on model ordinances, data collection, etc.
COUNTY
COOK COUNTY FOOD SYSTEM STEERING COMMITTEE
Writing a snapshot assessment of the Cook County food system and proposing a Cook County food council. Report and
ordinance to be completed by March 2012. (Lara Jaskiewicz, Project Manager, under a CDC grant to the Cook County
Department of Public Health under the Communities Putting Prevention to Work initiative).
MUNICIPAL AND SCHOOL
There are numerous initiatives that fall under "local food systems" heading. Policies might cover:
community gardens on public land or unused non-profit land
backyard (residential) livestock (chicken, duck, bee, rabbit, etc.)
school gardens
farm-to-school curricula
farmers markets and farmstands
food scrap composting (home and commercial)
home-based businesses of all kinds (production, processing, cooking)
agricultural zoning (especially as it relates to small acreage)
covenants in homeowners associations

MAJOR PARTNERS FOR LOCAL FOOD SYSTEMS
EXAMPLES OF FOOD POLICY COUNCILS IN ILLINOIS AT ALL GOVERNMENT LEVELS (IMPLEMENTED OR PROPOSED)
1. ILLINOIS LOCAL FOOD, FARMS, & JOBS COUNCIL
State body charged with implementing Illinois Food, Farms, and Jobs Act. First meeting was in March 2010.
www.foodfarmsjobs.org
2.

CMAP'S GO TO 2040 PLAN
Recommends the creation of a regional food policy council.

3.

COOK COUNTY FOOD SYSTEM STEERING COMMITTEE
An ad hoc committee formed under the CCDPH CPPW grant to (1) write an assessment of the suburban Cook
County food system. and (2) draft an ordinance to create a county-wide food policy council as the primary
solution to ameliorate problems identified in the assessment. Lara Jaskiewicz Lara.Jaskiewicz@phimc.org
708/708-524-5156

4.

KNOX COUNTY FOOD DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
Created in 2010. http://www.knoxfood.org/

5.

LAKE COUNTY BOARD
has been investigating the creation of a food policy council since 2009.

36
Page 71 of 126

 6.

DEPT. OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
(Agricultural Conservation Easement Farmland Protection Committee) has been planning an assessment and the
creation of a food policy council since January 2011.

7.

CHICAGO FOOD POLICY ADVISORY COUNCIL
An independent hybrid entity that includes a number of city departments on the Steering Committee. Developing
neighborhood food councils. Founded in 2005. http://www.chicagofoodpolicy.org/
EVANSTON FOOD COUNCIL
Policy, community-food projects, networking. Founded in 2005. Contact: Debbie Hillman
DLHillman@sbcglobal.net 847/328-7175.

8.

9.

GLENVIEW
A grassroots group led by the Farmers Market manager is in the early planning stages.

OTHER FOOD SYSTEM GROUPS IN ILLINOIS THAT COVER COOK COUNTY
Government-sponsored or connected
1. ILLINOIS INTERAGENCY NUTRITION COUNCIL
Promotes health and wellness through nutrition education, coordination of services and access to nutrition
programs so that Illinois residents can achieve food security. http://inc.aces.illinois.edu/
2.

ILLINOIS GREEN ECONOMY NETWORK (IGEN) Local Foods Task Force. Illinois Community Colleges:
http://www.igencc.org/workgroups/local-foods

3.

CENTER FOR EXCELLENCE IN ELIMINATION OF DISPARITIES, UIC
Food Equity Policy Committee. Projects, research, and policy to increase local food production.
www.CEEDChicago.org CDC-funded.

4.

COOK COUNTY FOOD SYSTEM STEERING COMMITTEE
An ad hoc committee formed to (1) influence the creation of a county food policy council, and (2) to write a
strategic plan for the food policy council. Lara Jaskiewicz Lara.Jaskiewicz@phimc.org 708/708-524-5156

5.

ADVOCATES FOR URBAN AGRICULTURE
A broad-based grassroots coalition including a number of City of Chicago representatives (DOE, DZLU). Includes
Chicago-area members, but works primarily within City of Chicago limits so far. Actively working on City of
Chicago urban agriculture zoning ordinance. http://auachicago.org/

6.

GOOD GREENS, USDA FOOD & NUTRITION SERVICE An informal sharing and collaborating network for
Ohio, Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indiana, and Illinois. Facilitated by Alan Shannon, Public Affairs
Director - Midwest Office. www.goodgreens.org/

Grassroots, non-profit, academic
1. ILLINOIS STEWARDSHIP ALLIANCE
Promotes establishment of sustainable local food systems and facilitates creation of food policy councils.
www.ilstewards.org/
2.

ILLINOIS FARMERS MARKETS NETWORK
Grassroots organizing of a statewide network to support farmers market and market managers. Annual forums.
Contact: Pat Stieren
217-522-4274
pstieren31@comcast.net

37
Page 72 of 126

 3.

ILLINOIS PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION - Food and Nutrition Section. Connects public health
departments with food access and food security issues and policies. Jim Bloyd, Chairperson. www.ipha.com/

4.

THE LAND CONNECTION
Education, farmer training programs, local producers-consumers connection. http://www.thelandconnection.org/

5.

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY SUSTAINABLE FOOD TALKS
A faculty-staff clearinghouse organization for all NU food people and projects (students, faculty, staff, community)
to strengthen sustainable food systems network, knowledge base, and find ways together to maximize outreach.
http://www.nusustainablefoodtalks.blogspot.com/
ENVIRONMENT AGRICULTURE AND FOOD WORKING GROUP
University of Chicago. Program on the Global Environment. http://eaf.uchicago.edu/

6.

7.

CHICAGO AREA FOOD STUDIES WORKING GROUP
University of Illinois-Chicago. Institute for the Humanities. www.uic.edu/depts/huminst/food_grp.shtml

8.

MIDWEST FARM CONNECTION
A Project of The Land Connection to Connect Aspiring Farmers with Retiring Farmers.
www.midwestfarmconnection.org/

SUBURBAN COOK COUNTY LOCAL FOOD SYSTEM PROJECTS
1. CHICAGO'S COMMUNITY KITCHENS
Since its inception in 1998, Chicago’s Community Kitchens has been providing foodservice job training to
unemployed and underemployed adults in Cook County who have a passion for "life in the kitchen" and a will to
achieve entry-level employment in the foodservice industry. Students create nearly 2,000 meals a day that are
delivered to Food Depository Kids Cafes, providing nourishing meals to hungry children after school, older adults
who need food assistance and older adult meal programs.
2.

FRESH MOVES
Fresh Moves is a mobile food bus delivering affordable, healthy food to struggling communities, block by block.
Fresh Moves' mission is to address the social issues that arise in communities where the food selection is abysmal.
Fresh Moves secured a bus, donated from the CTA and partnered with Architecture for Humanity to transform
the bus into a mobile produce market.

3.

GREEN YOUTH FARM
Green Youth Farm is a program through the Chicago Botanic Garden that serves up to 70 public school students
annually at four sites. Participants operate a small urban farm from which they donate fresh produce to food
pantries; demonstrate healthy food preparation at centers for Women, Infants and Children (WIC); and sell fresh,
affordable produce in underserved communities (including sales to low-income clients who are able to pay using
the Link card and WIC and senior coupons). In 2011, Green Youth Farm participants harvested over 17,000
pounds of fruits and vegetables, generating nearly $26,000 in revenue, while donating over 2,300 pounds to
charities.

4.

ORGANIC PANTRY PROJECT (TOPP)
TOPP is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation dedicated to providing local, organic produce to area food pantries by
building and supporting community gardens and educating people about organic vegetable gardening. In 2010,
TOPP built community gardens at Pleasant Ridge School and Glenview Community Church, with the help of over
75 adults and kids in the community.

38
Page 73 of 126

 5.

WINDY CITY HARVEST
Windy City Harvest is a collaboration between the Chicago Botanic Garden and Richard J. Daley College at the
Arturo Velasquez Institute campus to educate and place underemployed young adults in urban agriculture
enterprises In 2011, Windy City Harvest production operations harvested 26,370 pounds of organic method
produce, with $34,547 in sales. To date, forty-one students have graduated from the program.

39
Page 74 of 126

 APPENDIX B
Seminal Reports
BUILDING CHICAGO’S FOOD SYSTEM (2008)
Chicago’s Food Policy Advisory Council
This document introduces readers to the larger issues of the food system and suggests ways to participate in its
development. Examples of food policy council in other cities is included.

www.chicagofoodpolicy.org/2008%20CFPAC%20Report.pdf
FARM TO FORK: INNOVATIONS IN THE CHICAGO FOOD INDUSTRY (2010)
Polsky Center for Entrepreneurship at the University of Chicago Booth School of business and the Chicago
Entrepreneurial Center (CEC)
This paper reflects key points made at a conference by the same name. The conference brought together industry
leaders, entrepreneurs, investors, growers, researchers, government officials, faculty and students to discuss the
challenges and opportunities to advance the region’s leadership and growth in the food industry. Included is a history
of the region’s participation in this sector as well as suggestions for future strategies in this area.
www.chicagobooth.edu/entrepreneurship/docs/Farm-to-Fork.pdf
FEEDING OURSELVES: STRATEGIES FOR A NEW ILLINOIS FOOD SYSTEM (2004)
Red Tomato
Sponsored by four foundations, the Chicago community trust and the Chicago Department of Planning and
Development, this report makes recommendations on how to accelerate the growth of sustainable agriculture in
Illinois.

http://www.redtomato.org/PDF/ILReport.pdf
GO TO 2040 (2010)
Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning
This comprehensive strategic plan for the Chicago Metropolitan region includes a section for recommendations on
how to strengthen local food systems by facilitating sustainable local food production.
www.cmap.illinois.gov/moving-forward/local-food-systems
ILLINOIS FOOD, FARMS, AND JOBS REPORT (2010)
Illinois Food, Farms, and Jobs Council
This report discusses issues that need to be addressed as we ramp up our local food systems in Illinois.
www.agr.state.il.us/newsrels/taskforcereport-outside.pdf
THE ROLE OF COMMUNITY COLLEGES IN DEVELOPING THE ILLINOIS LOCAL FOOD SYSTEM (2011)
Illinois Green Economy Network (IGEN) Local Food Task Force
This report discusses opportunities for community colleges to support local food economies on campus and in their
communities. Included in the report are examples of exemplary programs and curriculum resources.
http://www.llcc.edu/LinkClick.aspx?fileticket=8oWzzseR6r8%3D&tabid=6628

40
 

Page 75 of 126

 41

APPENDIX 
Public Input Survey

Page 76 of 126

Cook County Food System Survey

We would like to get your input on the laws, rules, ordinances, regulations and government programs that have an impact on the food system in
Cook County, IL. This includes activities such as buying or renting land for growing crops, selling and eating food, and what happens with foodrelated waste products. Currently, these actions may be regulated by a variety of agencies and supported by different programs, which may not be
connected to each other.
We’d like to learn about what food system issues you experience through your work and personal life. The information you provide will be used to
develop guidance for a proposed food policy council.
This survey should take about 20 minutes to complete and will close on September 29, 2011. We are particularly interested in responses from
people who live or work in Cook County, IL. Feel free to share the link to this survey with others who live or work in Cook County, IL. When you
submit your survey you will have the option to sign up to receive a summary report of the final recommendations, and notification of when the
suburban Cook County food system assessment report becomes available.
This survey is a project of the suburban Cook County Communities Putting Prevention to Work project, a joint initiative of the Cook County
Department of Public Health and the Public Health Institute of Metropolitan Chicago. The survey was developed by members of the suburban Cook
County Food System Steering Committee.

*1. How are you involved with the food system? Check all that apply:
  Consumer/eating food
 
 
 
 
  Growing or raising food for human consumption
 
 
 
 
  Processing food
 
 
 
 
  Commercial or wholesale distribution or transportation of food
 
 
 
 
  Retail food sales, including grocery and food service
 
 
 
 
  Emergency food distribution, including pantries, soup kitchens, shelters, and other service agencies
 
 
 
 
  Waste disposal/recycling
 
 
 
 
  Research on food system activities
 
 
 
 
  Advocating on food system issues
 
 
 
 
  Policy making around food
 
 
 
 
  Education (teaching or student) about food and food systems
 
 
 
 
  Other (please specify)
 
 
 
 

Page 1
Page 77 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Food Production
Food production includes activities related to growing or raising food for human consumption. This includes activities such as land acquisition,
ground preparation, licensing/certification, planting, and harvesting.

2. Please state whether you agree or disagree with the following food production
statements.
Don’t know/Not

Agree

Disagree

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

My community has clear rules for farming and gardening

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

I am concerned about the negative environmental impacts of farming

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Farm labor wages are fair

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

The process to obtain food certifications, such as organic, is clear and

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Implementing food safety standards is cost prohibitive

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food safety standards for farming, ranching and other food production

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Agricultural working conditions are safe

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Community stakeholders and residents are ‘at the table’ in the agriculture

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Federal agriculture policy supports the growing and raising of the foods

sure

No comment

we need for a healthy nation

methods

reasonable

need to be strengthened
I can easily find out which licenses or inspections I need for food
production
Food production licenses and inspections accommodate different types
and sizes of businesses
Agricultural and post-harvest workers need additional training and
education
Economic development programs support locally-owned businesses as
well as large national and multinational businesses
I am concerned about farm land being purchased by other countries or
non-U.S. organizations

policy- and rule-making process
Food production can minimize waste through composting and other
processes

3. Please use the space below to describe any government policies, rules or programs
relating to food production in Cook County that concern you.
 
 

Page 2
Page 78 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Food Processing
Processing food involves taking ingredients to prepare raw products for sale or to make more finished products; minimal post harvest best practices
(such as packaging fruit for market) or value added processing (such as milling flour or making ice cream).

4. Please state whether you agree or disagree with the following food processing
statements.
Don’t know/Not

Agree

Disagree

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

My community has zones where agribusiness is allowed

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food safety standards are cost prohibitive to implement

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food safety standards for food processing businesses need to be

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Cook County has sufficient infrastructure to support food processing

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Transportation costs for foods are too high-- Agree, Disagree, Don’t

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food labeling standards are cost prohibitive to implement

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food processing worker wages are fair

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

It is clear which licenses and inspections are needed for different food

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Training and education is needed for the food processing work force

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Economic development programs support locally-owned food processing

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food processing working conditions are safe

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Community stakeholders and residents are ‘at the table’ in the food

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Federal agriculture policy reduces the costs of foods purchased by

sure

No comment

processors

strengthened

know/Unsure

processors
Current food processing licenses and inspections accommodate different
types and sizes of businesses

businesses as well as large national and multinational businesses

processing policy- and rule-making process
Food processing can minimize waste through composting and other
processes

5. Please use the space below to describe any government policies, rules or programs
relating to food processing in Cook County that concern you.
 
 

Page 3
Page 79 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Commercial and Wholesale Food Distribution
6. Please state whether you agree or disagree with the following food distribution
statements.
Don't know/Not

Agree

Disagree

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food safety standards for food distributors need to be strengthened

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Cook County has sufficient infrastructure to support food distribution

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Recent oil prices have had a negative impact on food distribution

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food distribution worker wages are fair

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

It is clear which licenses and inspections are needed for different food

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Training and education is needed for the food distribution work force

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Economic development programs support locally-owned businesses as

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food distribution working conditions are safe

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Community stakeholders and residents are ‘at the table’ in the food

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food safety standards are cost prohibitive for food distributors to

sure

No comment

implement

businesses

distributors
Current food processing licenses and inspections accommodate different
types and sizes of food distribution businesses

well as large national and multinational businesses

distribution policy- and rule-making process
Food distribution can minimize waste through composting and other
processes

7. Please use the space below to describe any government policies, rules or programs
relating to food distribution in Cook County that concern you.
 
 

Page 4
Page 80 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Retail Food
Retail food businesses include stores that sell food, restaurants, caterers, public and private cafeterias, farmers’ markets, and mobile food vendors.

8. Please state whether you agree or disagree with the following retail food statements.
Don't know/Not

Agree

Disagree

Food safety standards are cost prohibitive for retailers to implement

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food safety standards for retailers need to be strengthened

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food transportation costs limit the ability of businesses to sell foods

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food costs make it hard to be profitable

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Retail and restaurant worker wages are fair

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

It is clear which licenses and inspections are needed for stores,

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Training and education is needed for the retail food work force

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

School lunch programs support health

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Stores selling healthy food are in every community

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

There is economic development support for local retail food businesses

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

There is economic development support for chain retail food businesses

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

The retail food workforce needs training and education

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Retail food working conditions are safe

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Community stakeholders and residents are ‘at the table’ in the retail food

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

sure

No comment

restaurants, and other food retailers
Current retail food licenses and inspections accommodate different types
and sizes of businesses

policy- and rule-making process
Retail food businesses can minimize waste through composting and other
processes

9. Please use the space below to describe any government policies, rules or programs
relating to retail food in Cook County that concern you.
 
 

Page 5
Page 81 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Food Assistance and Emergency Food Programs
Food assistance and emergency food organizations distribute and serve food to those who face hunger or are having difficulty getting food on their
own. These include food pantries, soup kitchens, and communal meal providers, among other programs.

10. Please state whether you agree or disagree with the following food assistance or
emergency food statements.
Don't know/Not

Agree

Disagree

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Emergency food system worker wages are fair

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

It is clear which licenses and inspections are needed for food assistance

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Training and education is needed for the food assistance work force

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Federal nutrition and meal programs support healthy nutrition

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Clients of emergency food programs have good access to stores that sell

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food assistance working conditions are safe

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Community stakeholders and residents are ‘at the table’ in the food

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food safety standards are cost prohibitive for food assistant programs to

sure

No comment

implement
Food safety standards for food assistance programs need to be
strengthened
Increased transportation costs have reduced the amount of foods
available for those who need it
Food costs prevent food assistance programs from providing the foods
their clients need

programs
Current food assistance program licenses and inspections accommodate
different types and sizes of businesses

healthy foods

assistance policy- and rule-making process
Food assistance programs can minimize waste through composting and
other processes

11. Please use the space below to describe any government policies, rules or programs
relating to food assistance programs in Cook County that concern you.
 
 

Page 6
Page 82 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Food Access and Consumption
This section asks about your individual ability to access the foods you need to be healthy.

12. Please state whether you agree or disagree with the following food access statements.
Don't know/Not

Agree

Disagree

Food safety standards need to be strengthened

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Oil prices have raised food prices

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

School lunch programs support healthy eating

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

I live near a store that sell healthy foods

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

People would eat more healthy foods if they knew how to prepare them

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Senior center meals are healthy

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Healthy foods cost too much

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

I have trouble affording the foods prescribed for a health condition

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

I have trouble finding the foods prescribed for a health condition

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Food pantries and soup kitchens provide healthy foods

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Community stakeholders and residents are ‘at the table’ in the food access

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

sure

No comment

decision making process
Residents can minimize waste through composting and other processes

13. Please use the space below to describe any government policies, rules or programs
relating to food access or consumption in Cook County that concern you.
 
 

Page 7
Page 83 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Food Waste Management
Waste processing and management includes trash hauling, composting, recycling, landfill, and other activities related to processing waste products.

14. Please state whether you agree or disagree with the following food waste and
recycling statements.
Don't know/Not

Agree

Disagree

Waste labor wages are fair

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Training and education is needed for the waste workforce

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Waste management working conditions are safe

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Community stakeholders and residents are ‘at the table’ in the decision

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Landfill availability is becoming hard to find

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Cook County should explore increasing the local development of

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

sure

No comment

making process
The food system causes a great deal of unnecessary waste costs and
processing

alternative or new food waste management technologies

15. Please use the space below to describe any government policies, rules or programs
relating to food waste in Cook County that concern you.
 
 

Page 8
Page 84 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Demographics

*16. Where do you live and work?
Live:

Work:

 

Please choose the city in which you live and the city in

 

which your office is located.

17. Are you an employee or volunteer of a food system organization? This can be a farm,
food processor, food distributor, grocery store, restaurant, etc.
  Yes
 
 
 
 
  No
 
 
 
 

Page 9
Page 85 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Organization Demographics
18. In what area(s) of the food system does your organization focus?
  Production
 
 
 
 
  Processing
 
 
 
 
  Distribution
 
 
 
 
  Grocery
 
 
 
 
  Food service
 
 
 
 
  Food assistance
 
 
 
 
  Consumer education or support
 
 
 
 
  Waste processing or management
 
 
 
 
Other (please specify)

19. What is your organization's market area or jurisdiction?
Jurisdiction or catchment area

 

Please choose:
Other (please specify)

20. Is your organization:
  For profit
 
 
 
 
  Not for profit
 
 
 
 
  Government
 
 
 
 
  Educational
 
 
 
 
Other (please specify)

21. Are you a food system advocate?
  Yes
 
 
 
 
  No
 
 
 
 

Page 10
Page 86 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Demographics
22. Are you an elected official?
  Yes
 
 
 
 
  No
 
 
 
 

23. Are you male or female?
  Female
 
 
 
 
  Male
 
 
 
 

24. What is your age?
  Under 18
 
 
 
 
  18-29
 
 
 
 
  30-44
 
 
 
 
  45-64
 
 
 
 
  65 or older
 
 
 
 

25. Are you of Hispanic or Latino origin?
  No
 
 
 
 
  Yes, Mexican or Chicano
 
 
 
 
  Yes, Puerto Rican
 
 
 
 
  Yes, Other
 
 
 
 

26. What is your race?
  White or Caucasian
 
 
 
 
  Black or African American
 
 
 
 
  American Indian or Alaska Native
 
 
 
 
  Asian Indian
 
 
 
 
  Chinese
 
 
 
 
  Japanese
 
 
 
 
  Korean
 
 
 
 
  Other Asian
 
 
 
 
  Pacific Islander
 
 
 
 
  Other
 
 
 
 

Page 11
Page 87 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
27. What is your total household income?
  Under $25,000
 
 
 
 
  $25,000-49,999
 
 
 
 
  $50,000-74,999
 
 
 
 
  $75,000-99,999
 
 
 
 
  $100,000-$150,000
 
 
 
 
  Over $150,000
 
 
 
 

28. Please use the space below to state any issues you feel were not included in the
previous questions.
 
 

Page 12
Page 88 of 126

 Cook County Food System Survey
Thank You
Thank you for completing this survey. Your input will help to shape the direction of Cook County food efforts in the future.
Interested in staying involved?
There are two ways you can stay involved in this process:
1. Sign up to receive a copy of the recommendations based on the survey results and will be notified when a report of the suburban Cook
County food system assessment is completed.
2. Attend a meeting on October 6, 2011, to review the survey results and develop recommendations for what the proposed food policy
council will do.
To learn more, or to register for the meeting, visit the Cook County Department of Public Health website at: www.cookcountypublichealth.org

Page 13
Page 89 of 126

 GLOSSARY

This glossary is focused on terms that a food policy council would use on a regular basis.
Agri-tourism
Farm visits, bed and breakfasts holiday events and seasonal celebrations aligned with agricultural
production.
Alternative Food System
A local food system that is an alternative to the global corporate models where producers and
consumers are separated through a chain of processors/manufacturers, shippers and retailers.
They are a complex network of relationships between actors including producers, distributors,
retailers and consumers grounded in a particular place. These systems are the unit of measure by
which participants in local food movements are working to increase food security and ensure the
economic, ecological and social sustainability of communitiesi.
Community Supported Agriculture (CSA)
a community of individuals who pledge support to a farm operation so that the farm becomes,
either legally or spiritually, the community’s farm, with the growers and consumers providing
mutual support and sharing the risks and benefits of food productionii.
Farm
An operation that produces, or would normally produce and sell, $1,000 or more of agricultural
products per year.
Farmstand
A stand-alone store or market selling produce.
Food Cooperative
A grocery store organized as a cooperative. Food cooperatives are usually consumers’
cooperatives and are owned by their members.
Food Hub
USDA defines a “local food hub” as “a centrally located facility with a business management
structure facilitating the aggregation, storage, processing, distribution, and/or marketing of
locally/regionally produced food products.” As such, food hubs are a proven approach for
building farmer and community wealth. They help farmers to obtain a fair price for their goods,
improve food security for people at all income levels within the community, and ensure more of
the community’s wealth is reinvested locally

55
 

Page 90 of 126

 Food Incubator
A commercial kitchen operations that attempts to ensure safety and health of consumers and
restaurant patrons who could become ill by eating contaminated food. Rules for commercial
kitchens, established by the county health departments that conduct routine inspections in
Illinois, mandate that equipment, food storage and preparation, cleanliness, sanitation, and staff
hygiene practices meet public safety standards. Culinary Incubators drive new start-up
businesses, for whom, without a health department licensed commercial kitchen, could not
legally produce their food. In addition to producing food, commercial kitchens can be used to
shoot TV shows, teach cooking classes, host food tastings, and other events.
Food Policy Councils
Forums for food issues and platforms for coordinated action. These councils can act within
governmental bodies or as separate entities.
Food Security
USDA Economic Research Service defines food security as a household-level economic and social
condition of limited or uncertain access to adequate food.

Food Shed
Everything between where a food is produced and where a food is consumed. It includes the land
it grows on, the routes it travels, the markets it goes through, and the people it serves.
Home Rule
The Illinois Constitution allows a home rule unit to “exercise any power and perform any
function pertaining to its government and affairs.
Link Program
The Illinois Link Program is the Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) system used in Illinois to
distribute food and cash assistance benefits authorized under several federal and state programs.
Food benefits are authorized under the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
(SNAP). As of October 1, 2008 SNAP is the new name for the Food Stamp Program. The state
cash programs are Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Aid to the Aged, Blind
and Disabled (AABD), General Assistance (GA), and Refugee and Repatriate Assistance (RRA).
Families who are eligible for the food and cash programs access their benefits using their Illinois
Link card by swiping the card through a point of sale (POS) terminal and entering their Personal
Identification Number (PIN). The majority of Link card holders, 91%, receive only food benefits,
7% receive both food and cash benefits, and 2% receive only cash benefits. Food benefits can be
spent only on SNAP eligible food items; cash benefits have no restrictions. Farmers’ markets
accepting Link benefits in Suburban Cook County include, Oak Park Farmers’ Market and
Evanston Farmers’ Market.
56 
 

Page 91 of 126

 Local Food
A product available for direct human consumption that is grown, processed, packaged, and
distributed within a certain distance. Typically the distance ranges from 100-300 miles from a
community. In GO TO 2040, The Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning did not set a
mileage target, but instead defined the distance component as “within our seven counties and
adjacent regions” making it a more relative term than a set standard.iii Good Greens, a network
of local food advocacy organizations, defines the Midwest growing region as the following states:
Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, and Minnesota. These states are also included in
the USDA Office of Food and Nutrition Service Midwest Region.
Local Rule
Municipal ordinances supersede county guidelines. Municipalities with populations over 25,000
are automatically considered in this category of governance. Others may choose to do so
through a referendum.
Municipality
An urban political unit having corporate status and usually powers of self-government.
Natural
Legally, food labeled "natural" does not contain any artificial ingredients, coloring ingredients, or
chemical preservatives, and, in the case of meat and poultry, is minimally processed.
Ordinance
A law passed by a municipal government.
Organic
Organically raised food follows a set of prescribed practices that differ in a number of ways from
industrialized agriculture. Only farms that go through the certification process of their country
or state can label their food organic. The process is expensive, and many small farms choose to
forgo certification even though their own practices meet or exceed those required.
Pastured Meat Products
Any animal raised for meat or eggs, having the ability to walk around in open fields and woods,
foraging for food (primarily seeds and insects, with the occasional small rodent).
Soil Amendments
Compost, fertilizers, soil conditioners, lab tests, etc.
Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP)
Approval by the federal SNAP authorizes farmers’ markets to accept Link payments from the
Link food account. Under this approval, farmers’ markets must follow the federal SNAP and
Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) rules and regulations. The farmers’ markets must specifically

57
 

Page 92 of 126

 request authorization to accept cash Link payments, and to describe how Link purchases with
food and cash benefits are accounted for separately at the vendor sales level.
Specialty Crops
Fruit, trees, nuts, vegetables, dried fruits, horticulture and nursery crops. Corn and soybeans are
excluded in this definition.
Statute
A law, statue or regulation enacted by a municipal corporation.
Sustainable Agriculture
The term ''sustainable agriculture'' (U.S. Code Title 7, Section 3103) means an integrated system
of plant and animal production practices having a site-specific application that will over the longterm:






Satisfy human food and fiber needs.
Enhance environmental quality and the natural resource base upon which the agriculture
economy depends.
Make the most efficient use of nonrenewable resources and on-farm resources and
integrate, where appropriate, natural biological cycles and controls.
Sustain the economic viability of farm operations.
Enhance the quality of life for farmers and society as a whole.

Township
A unit of local government usually a subdivision of a county, found in most Midwestern and
northwestern states of the U.S. and in most Canadian provinces. Townships and municipalities
have different powers and responsibilities. A township in Illinois is six miles by six miles.
Unincorporated
land not included in municipal jurisdiction.
Vertical Farming
A concept that argues that it is economically and environmentally viable to cultivate plant or
animal life within skyscrapers or on vertically inclined surfaces.
WIC
A special supplemental food program for women, infants and children.

                                                            
i

Dunne, J., Chambers, K., Giombolini, K. Schlegal, S. “What Does ‘Local’ Mean in the Grocery Store? Multiplicity in Food Retailers’ Perspectives
on sourcing and Marketing Local Foods”, Renewable Agriculture and Food Systems, pp. 46-59.

58 
 

Page 93 of 126

                                                                                                                                                                                                 
ii

DeMuth, S. (1993). Community Supported Agriculture (CSA): An Annotated Bibliography and Resource Guide, USDA,National Agricultural
Library.
iii
GO TO 2040, Promote Sustainable Local Food, Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP), 2010.
http://www.cmap.illinois.gov/2040/local-food-systems. 

59
 

Page 94 of 126

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
August 21, 2012

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 95 of 126

 CD UPDATE
August 2012

Gonorrhea Resistance Update - Suburban Cook County

To report a communicable disease, please call 708-633-8030
during regular business hours
(8:30 AM - 4:30 PM).
To reach communicable disease
staff after hours (4:30 PM - 8:30
AM), please call 708-633-4000
and press ‘3’ when prompted.

Gonorrhea in Suburban Cook County: Gonorrhea (GC) is the second most commonly reported
infectious disease both in suburban Cook County1 and in the U.S.2 This sexually transmitted infection (STI) is caused by the organism Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Left untreated, GC can lead to pelvic
inflammatory disease (PID)3, ectopic pregnancy3, and infertility3.
Epidemiology of GC in suburban Cook County, 2011
• 2,067 cases were reported; 71% of reported cases were non-Hispanic Black; 5.7% of cases
were non-Hispanic White and 5.7% were Hispanic/Latino
• Two-thirds of cases were between 15-24 years of age
• 61% of reported cases lived in the South District and 23% lived in the West District
Resistance: N. gonorrhoeae has progressively developed resistance to antibiotics including sulfonilamides, penicillin, tetracycline, and ciprofloxacin.
Among N. gonorrhoeae isolates collected between
2009-2010, 0.11% had decreased susceptibility
to cefixime compared to just 0.002% between
2000-2006.4 This finding raises concerns for the
potential emergence of gonococcal cephalosporin
resistance.

Figure 1. 2011 GC Cases Among Persons Aged 1524 Years by Race/Ethnicity, CCDPH Jurisdiction

Unknown
17%

Asian/Pacific 
Islander
0.1%

NonͲHispanic 
Black
73%

Hispanic
5%
Treatment: Current CDC treatment guidelines recNonͲHispanic 
ommend dual therapy with the injectable cephaWhite
losporin, ceftriaxone, and either azithromycin or
5%
doxycycline to treat all uncomplicated GC infections among adults and adolescents in the U.S. As always, treatment should be administered with
appropriate patient counseling, partner management, and public health reporting.

Treatment Failures: Patients with cephalosporin treatment failure should return for ‘test-of-cure’
within one week, preferably by culture and antibiotic susceptibility testing. Notify the STI Program
at CCDPH (708-633-8585) within 24 hours following the identification of a GC treatment failure and
consult with STI program personnel for referral of the isolate for susceptibility testing.
Counseling: Emphasize that patients should abstain from oral, vaginal, or anal sex until one week
after the patient and
Figure 2. Reported GC Cases by Age Groups, 2007-2011, CCDPH Jurisdiction
all of his/her partners
are treated. Discuss
<15 Years
15Ͳ24 Years
ш25 Years
the importance of
3,000
timely notification and
referral of sex part2,500
ners for treatment.
Discuss risk reduction
2,000
measures to avoid reinfection with gonor1,500
rhea or acquisition of
another STI and HIV.
Reeported G
GC Cases

Cook County
Department of Public Health
15900 S. Cicero, Oak Forest IL, 60452
•••
Sandra Martell, RN, DNP
Interim Chief Operating Officer,
Cook County
Department of Public Health
•••
Editor: Michael O. Vernon, DrPH
Director, Communicable Disease
Control Unit
Cook County Department of
Public Health
•••
General CD Program
708-633-8030
Fax: 708-633-8650
•••
HIV Prevention Program
708-633-8038
Fax: 708-633-8767
•••
STI Program
708-633-8585
Fax 1: 708-633-8565
Fax2: 708-633-7996
•••
TB Program
708-836-8660
Fax: 708-836-8663
•••
VPD Program
708-633-8030
Fax: 708-633-8650
•••
Cook County Department of
Public Health
www.cookcountypublichealth.org
•••
Chicago Department of Public
Health
www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/
depts/cdph.html
•••
Illinois Department of Public Health
www.idph.state.il.us
•••
Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention
www.cdc.gov
••••

1,000
500
0

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

Year

Page 96 of 126 to Your Community
We Bring HealthCARE

Reporting
Report all confirmed
cases of gonorrhea to
the STI Program within
7 days.

 Table 1. Morbidity for Selected Infectious Diseases, Suburban Cook County*, 2007-2011¶

Vaccine Preventable
Diphtheria
Haemophilus influenzae  (type B)
Hepatitis B
 Acute
 Chronic
Measles
Mumps
Pertussis (Whooping cough)
Rubella
Tetanus
Selected Diseases
Cryptosporidiosis
E. coli  O157:H7
Giardiasis
Haemophilus influenzae
Hepatitis A
Hepatitis C
Histoplasmosis
Legionnaires' disease
Listeriosis
Lyme Disease
Malaria
Meningococcal disease
Pneumococcal disease (invasive)†
Salmonellosis
Shigellosis
Streptococcal Invasive (Group A)
Tuberculosis 
 Active
 Latent
Typhoid Fever
WNV (neuroinvasive)
Sexually Transmitted Infections
Chlamydia
Gonorrhea
HIV
AIDS
Syphilis§

2007
0
0

2008
0
0

2009
0
2

2010
0
0

2011
0
0

5 yr Median
0
0

39
511
0
21
45
0
1

66
383
11
19
92
0
0

26
293
0
14
94
0
0

25
309
0
4
142
0
1

25
306
1
2
280
0
0

26
309
0
14
94
0
0

21
17
94
21
35
1,141
10
14
7
18
11
14
172
371
95
47

14
10
72
30
46
811
19
38
11
9
21
22
32
282
120
38

15
33
79
28
36
806
3
30
10
23
19
8
23
285
90
46

26
9
75
31
5
819
10
39
6
31
10
3
17
345
125
47

17
16
81
23
6
920
12
27
7
23
19
8
23
285
95
47

17
16
79
28
35
819
10
30
7
23
19
8
23
285
95
47

139
947
7
16

100
783
5
3

100
n/a
3
0

93
650
3
15

75
559
6
10

100
717
5
10

8,110
2,782
189
185
69

8,219
2,560
201
112
89

8,204
2,196
182
84
133

8,825
2,093
184
62
151

8,398
2,067
141¶
35¶
171

8,219
2,196
184
84
133

* Excludes Evanston, Oak Park, Skokie and Stickney Township (except for tuberculosis)
† As of 3/08, reportable only in those < 5 years of age
¶ Provisional cases (as of 7/15/2012)
§ Early syphilis (i.e., primary, secondary and early latent)
1.
2.
3.
4.

Data Source: Illinois Department of Public Health STD Section.
CDC. 2010 Sexually Transmitted Disease Surveillance Report. Available at: http://www.cdc.gov/std/stats10/default.htm (last accessed 7/6/12).
CDC. Fact Sheet on Gonorrhea. Available at: http://www.cdc.gov/std/gonorrhea/STDFact-Gonorrhea.htm (last accessed, 7/6/12).
CDC. Cephalosporin susceptibility among Neisseria gonorrhoeae isolates - United States, 2000—2010. MMWR 2011; 60(26); 873-877.

Page 97 ofto126
We Bring HealthCARE
Your Community

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
August 21, 2012

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 98 of 126

  

Annual 
Tuberculosis 
Surveillance 
Report,  
2011 

Demian Christiansen, DSc, MPH
Assistant Director & Tuberculosis Surveillance 
Program Manager 
Communicable Disease Control Unit 
 
Michael O. Vernon, DrPH 
Director 
Communicable Disease Control Unit 

Page 99 of 126

Communicable Disease Control
Release Date  07.05.12 

 COOK COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Sandra Martell RN, DNP
Interim Chief Operating Officer, Cook County Department of Public Health

Demian Christiansen, DSc, MPH
Assistant Director & Tuberculosis Program Manager,
Communicable Disease Control Unit
Michael O. Vernon, DrPH
Director, Communicable Disease Control Unit

Copyright Information
All materials contained in this report are in the public domain and may be used and reprinted without special
permission; citation as to source, however, is appreciated.
Suggested Citation
Cook County Department of Public Health. Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011. Oak Forest, IL
2012.
Cook County Department of Public Health
Protecting the Health and Environment of Suburban Cook County
Affiliate, Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE, CEO, Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Honorable Toni Preckwinkle
President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
President, Cook County Board of Health
Communicable Disease Control Unit
Cook County Department of Public Health
15900 S. Cicero Bldg. E - 3rd Floor
Oak Forest, IL 60452
Page 100 of 126

 CONTENTS
ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS & DEFINITIONS ........................................................................................5
OVERVIEW..........................................................................................................................................................6
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1. Number and Rate (per 100,000 population) of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Selected
Public Health Jurisdictions, 1993-2011 ..................................................................................................8
Table 2. Number and Percentage of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Selected Characteristics,
Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011 ........................................................................................................9
Table 3. Tuberculosis Cases by Most Frequently Reported Countries of Origin,
Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011 ......................................................................................................12
Table 4. Number and Proportion of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Site of Disease and
Laboratory Results, Suburban Cook County, 2011...............................................................................14
Table 5. Tuberculosis Susceptibility Results by Birthplace, Suburban Cook County, 2011 .............................14
Table 6. Trends in the Number of Reported Tuberculosis Cases, HIV Testing and Coinfection with HIV,
Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011 ......................................................................................................15
Table 7. Map Key - Suburban Cook County Municipalities and Chicago Community Areas ..........................19
Table 8. Reported Tuberculosis Cases and Rates (per 100,000 population) by Municipality,
North and West Districts, Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011 ............................................................20
Table 9. Reported Tuberculosis Cases and Rates (per 100,000 population) by Municipality,
South and Southwest Districts, Suburban Cook County, 2009-2011 ...................................................21

3
Page 101 of 126

 LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1. Rates of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Selected Jurisdictions, 1993-2011 ......................................7
Figure 2. Proportion of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Birthplace, Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011 .......10
Figure 3. Reported TB Cases by Birthplace and Race/Ethnicity, Suburban Cook County, 2011 .......................11
Figure 4. Number of Years Living in the United States Prior to Receiving a Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis Disease, Suburban Cook County, 2011 .........................................................................13
Figure 5. Mode of Treatment Administration in Reported Tuberculosis Cases,
Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011 .....................................................................................................16
Figure 6. Completion of Tuberculosis Therapy, Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011 ........................................17
Figure 7. Reported Tuberculosis Case Rates (per 100,000 population) by Municipality (Suburban Cook
County or Community Area (Chicago), Cook County, 2011 ...............................................................18
TECHNICAL NOTES ........................................................................................................................................22

4
Page 102 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS & DEFINITIONS
Active TB: (see TB Disease)
BCG: Bacille Calmette Guérin, a vaccination given to persons, usually infants, in countries where TB is common. BCG is NOT used in the United States.
Extrapulmonary TB: A person with Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection outside of the lungs, the pleural
space, and the larynx (voice box). A person with extrapulmonary disease can also have pulmonary TB (see
below).
LTBI: Latent Tuberculosis Infection; a person with TB infection who is not contagious.
MDR-TB: Multi-drug resistant TB. MDR-TB is defined as TB resistant to isoniazid and rifampin, the two most
important first line anti-tuberculosis medications.
Pulmonary TB: A person with Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection of the lungs, pleural space or the larynx
(voice box). A person with pulmonary TB can also have extrapulmonary TB.
QFT-G: QuantiFERON-TB Gold Test, a blood test used to detect Mycobacterium tuberculosis. This test cannot distinguish persons with LTBI from persons with TB disease. In contrast to the TST (see below), QFT-G
can distinguish persons with either LTBI or TB disease from persons who may have received BCG vaccination.
QFT-G has greater specificity than TST.
TB: Tuberculosis
TB Disease: A person with TB infection who is contagious to others; a person with TB disease can have pulmonary TB, extrapulmonary TB, or both.
TST: Tuberculin Skin Test, a test whereby purified protein derivative (PPD) is injected under the skin in the
forearm. Persons with TB infection react to the PPD which results in a bump (induration) where the PPD was
injected. Qualified healthcare personnel can measure the size of the bump and determine whether the test is
positive or negative. A positive TST can indicate active TB infection, LTBI, or prior BCG vaccination. However, the TST is not able to distinguish between these three possibilities.
XDR-TB: Extensively drug resistant TB. XDR-TB is defined as MDR-TB plus TB that is resistant to any fluoroquinoline plus resistance to one of the three injectable drugs (i.e., amikacin, kanamycin, or capreomycin).

5
Page 103 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

OVERVIEW
Epidemiologic Summary
•

Seventy five (75) new cases of TB were reported in suburban Cook County in 2011. This represents a
rate of 3.0 cases per 100,000; a 15% decrease in cases reported since 2010 and a 25% decrease since
2009 (Table 1).

•

The North District accounted for 52% of reported cases in 2011 (Table 8).

•

Municipalities with the highest numbers of cases included Cicero (n=7), Wheeling (n=7), Skokie (n=5)
and Hoffman Estates (n=5) (Table 8).

•

Five (5) lived in Skokie and five (5) in Hoffman Estates. Each of the following municipalities had three
TB cases: Des Plaines, Elk Grove Village, Mt. Prospect, and Niles (Table 8).

•

The top three countries of origin for foreign-born TB cases were India (31%), Mexico (29%) and the
Philippines (8.5%) (Table 3).

•
TB Burden in Foreign-born Persons
•

The proportion of TB cases in foreign-born persons increased from 65% in 2002 to 79% in 2011 (Figure 2).

•

Three countries accounted for 68% of all foreign-born cases: India (n=18; 31%), Mexico (n=17, 29%)
and the Philippines (n=5; 8.5%).

•

Among foreign-born persons diagnosed with TB, 92% arrived 5 or more years prior to receiving a
diagnosis of TB disease (Figure 4).

Drug Resistance
•

In 2011, no case of MDR-TB was identified (Table 5).

Coinfection with HIV
•

Between 1-4 cases with TB were coinfected with HIV (Table 6); these persons are defined, per AIDS
case definition, as having AIDS. The exact number of coinfected cases is not given in order to protect
the confidentiality of those persons.

Directly Observed Therapy
•

In 2011, 98% of patients with pulmonary TB received DOT (Figure 5).

Completion of Therapy
•

For TB cases diagnosed in 2009, the most recent year for which data on completion of tuberculosis
therapy are available, 94% of persons with TB disease who were eligible* completed treatment

•

Among persons diagnosed in 2009 and who were eligible* to complete TB treatment in 12 months*,
82% of cases did so. This is below the Healthy People 2020 goal of 93% (Figure 6)..

* Eligible cases are persons who were alive at the time of TB diagnosis and did not die during therapy, and excludes persons with TB resistant to rifampin and pediatric
cases (<15 years) with a diagnosis of meningeal, bone/joint, or miliary TB.

6
Page 104 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Figure 1. Rates of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Selected Jurisdictions, 1993-2011

35.0

US TB Rates

Illinois TB Rate

City of Chicago TB Rate

Suburban Cook Co. TB Rate

Rate pe
er 100,000 Po
opulation

30.0

25.0

20 0
20.0

15.0

10.0

5.0

0.0
1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011

Year

Figure 1. TB rates declined from 7.1 per 100,000 population in 1993 to 3.0 per 100,000 population in 2011. Declines in
both numbers and rates of TB occurred nationally and in Illinois. TB rates in Chicago declined from 28.7 per 100,000
population in 1993 to 6.2 per 100,000 in 2011.

7
Page 105 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Table1. Number and Rate (per 100,000 population) of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Selected
Public Health Jurisdictions, 1993-2011
Year
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011

Suburban Cook County
No.
Rate*
165
7.1
142
6.1
155
6.7
155
6.7
140
6.0
150
6.5
140
6.0
141
5.7
139
5.6
130
5.2
122
4.9
91
3.7
120
4.8
116
4.7
139
5.6
100
4.0
100
4.0
93
3.7
75
3.0

City of Chicago
No.
Rate*
798
28.7
714
25.6
619
22.2
674
24.2
597
21.4
469
16.8
463
16.6
398
13.7
377
13.0
382
13.2
339
11.7
308
10.6
329
11.4
287
9.9
258
8.9
214
7.4
202
7.0
161
6.0
166
6.2

Illinois
No.
1,235
1,101
1,024
1,060
974
850
825
743
707
680
633
569
596
569
521
469
418
372
359

USA
Rate*
10.8
9.6
9.0
9.3
8.5
7.4
7.2
6.0
5.7
5.5
5.1
4.6
4.8
4.6
4.2
3.8
3.4
2.9
2.8

No.
25,107
24,205
22,728
21,210
19,751
18,287
17,501
16,310
15,945
15,056
14,836
14,500
,
14,067
13,727
13,288
12,904
11,540
,
11,181
10,521

Rate*
9.7
9.2
8.5
7.9
7.2
6.6
6.3
5.8
5.6
5.2
5.1
5.0
4.8
4.6
4.4
4.2
3.8
3.6
3.4

* Rates (per 100,000 population) for years 1993Ͳ1999 calculated using 1990 US census data; rates  for 2000 Ͳ 2009 calculated
   using 2000 US census data. Rates for 2010 & 2011 calculated using 2010 US census data.

8
Page 106 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Table 2. Number and Percentage of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Selected Characteristics,
Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011
Year
Characteristic
Sex
 Male                                      
 Female                                  
Age Groups (Y)
 <5
 5Ͳ14
 15Ͳ24
 25Ͳ44
 45Ͳ64
 65+
Race/Ethnicity
 White, not Hispanic
 Black, not Hispanic
 Hispanic
 Asian/Pacific Islander
 Other
TOTAL

2002
No. (%)

2003
No. (%)

2004
No. (%)

2005
No. (%)

2006
No. (%)

2007
No. (%)

2008
No. (%)

2009
No. (%)

2010
No. (%)

2011
No. (%)

73
59

(55)
(45)

70
52

(57)
(43)

53
38

(58)
(42)

57
63

(48)
(53)

64
52

(55)
(45)

73
67

(52)
(48)

58
42

(58)
(42)

47
53

(47)
(53)

51
42

(55)
(45)

41
34

(55)
(45)

2
0
13
54
31
32

(2)
(0)
(10)
(41)
(23)
(24)

1
1
17
38
44
21

(1)
(1)
(14)
(31)
(36)
(17)

1
0
5
31
33
21

(1)
(0)
(5)
(34)
(36)
(23)

3
3
15
43
31
25

(3)
(3)
(13)
(36)
(26)
(21)

4
4
7
36
35
30

(3)
(3)
(6)
(31)
(30)
(26)

3
2
14
32
58
31

(2)
(1)
(10)
(23)
(41)
(22)

2
1
4
40
30
23

(2)
(1)
(4)
(40)
(30)
(23)

2
0
13
40
22
23

(2)
(0)
(13)
(40)
(22)
(23)

2
0
9
24
29
29

(2)
(0)
(10)
(26)
(31)
(31)

1
2
6
24
21
21

(1)
(3)
(8)
(32)
(28)
(28)

29 (22) 28 (23)
23 (17) 30 (25)
25 (19) 19 (16)
55 (42) 45 (37)
0
(0)
0
(0)
132 (100) 122 (100)

23
19
21
28
0
91

(25) 21 (18) 19 (16) 27 (19) 21 (21) 14 (14)
(21) 30 (25) 19 (16) 16 (11) 24 (24) 10 (10)
(23) 24 (20) 25 (22) 28 (20) 17 (17) 24 (24)
(31) 45 (38) 53 (46) 69 (49) 38 (38) 45 (45)
(0)
0
(0)
0
(0)
0
(0)
0
(0)
7
(7)
(100) 120 (100) 116 (100) 140 (100) 100 (100) 100 (100)

14
11
31
37
0
93

(15)
(12)
(33)
(40)
(0)
(100)

10
13
20
32
0
75

(13)
(17)
(27)
(43)
(0)
(100)

Table 2. In 2011, 55% of TB cases were male; 88% were aged 25 years or older; 43% were Asian/Pacific
Islanders. There were 3 pediatric cases (i.e. cases <15 years of age) representing 4% of all cases diagnosed in
2011 in suburban Cook County.

9
Page 107 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Figure 2. Proportion of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Birthplace,
Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011
ForeignͲborn

USͲborn

90

Proporttion of Rep
ported TB Caases

80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

Year
Figure 2. The proportion of TB cases in foreign-born persons has increased from 65% in 2002 to 79% in 2011.

10
Page 108 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Figure 3. Reported TB Cases by Birthplace and Race/Ethnicity, Suburban Cook County, 2011
ForeignͲborn (n=59)

White, not Hispanic
15%

USͲborn (n=16)

Asian/Pacific 
Il d
Islander
13%

Black, not Hispanic
5%

White, not 
Hispanic
6%

Hispanic
19%

Asian/Pacific Islander
51%

Black, not Hispanic
62%

Hispanic
29%

Figure 3. Important race/ethnicity differences exist in the distribution of cases by birthplace. Among foreignborn persons, Asian/Pacific Islanders accounted for the majority (51%) of cases. By comparison, non-Hispanic
Blacks accounted for the highest proportion of cases (62%) among U.S.-born TB cases.

11
Page 109 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Table 3. Tuberculosis Cases by Most Frequently Reported Countries of Origin,
Suburban Cook County, 2002 - 2011
Year
Birthplace
India
Mexico
Philippines
Poland
Korea South
Vietnam
China
Pakistan
Nigeria
Haiti
Romania
Russia
Peru
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Guatemala
Italy
Korea North
Myanmar (formerly Burma)
Thailand
Zimbabwe

2002
31
18
7
4
6
1
1
3
0
0
1
0
0
1
1
1
0
2
0
1

2003
16
14
13
3
2
3
3
2
4
3
0
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

2004
13
13
10
3
2
0
1
1
0
0
1
0
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
0

2005
24
19
12
3
4
1
0
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
1

2006
23
18
16
1
2
2
4
1
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0

2007
30
18
21
4
5
1
1
5
0
1
0
1
2
0
2
2
1
1
1
0

2008
10
11
17
2
1
2
4
1
1
0
1
2
0
0
0
0
3
1
0
1

2009
18
17
11
2
2
6
2
3
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0

2010
20
21
8
1
2
1
2
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

2011*
18
17
5
6
1
2
0
0
3
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1

*In 2011, cases were also counted in persons who were born in Cambodia, Ecuador, and Yemen.  

Table 3. In 2011, 59 foreign-born persons with active TB came from 13 different countries. Three countries
accounted for 68% of all foreign born cases: India (n=18; 31%), Mexico (n=17; 29%) and the Philippines (n=5;
8.5%).

12
Page 110 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Figure 4. Number of Years Living in the United States Prior to Receiving a Diagnosis of
Tuberculosis Disease, Suburban Cook County, 2011
ш5 Years

1Ͳ4 Years

<1 Year

100%
90%
80%

Proportio
on

70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
India (n=18)

Mexico (n=17)

Philippines (n=5)

All ForeignͲborn (n=59)

Birthplace
Figure 4. Among all foreign-born TB cases reported in 2011, 92% arrived in the U.S. 5 or more years prior to
receiving a diagnosis of TB disease.

13
Page 111 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Table 4. Number and Proportion of Reported Tuberculosis Cases by Site of Disease and
Laboratory Results, Suburban Cook County, 2011
Site of Disease
Pulmonary Only
Extrapulmonary Only
Both
Total

Total Cases
No.
49
23
4
75

Sputum Smear Positive
No.
(%)
23
(47)
0
(0)
0
(0)
22
(29)

Culture positive
No.
(%)
30
(61)
0
(0)
2
(50)
32
(43)

Table 4. Forty nine (49) reported TB cases in 2011 had pulmonary only TB; 23 cases had extrapulmonary only
TB (no pulmonary involvement). Sixty one percent (61%) of pulmonary only TB cases cases were culture positive.

Table 5. Tuberculosis Susceptibility Results by Birthplace,
Suburban Cook County, 2011

Birthplace
ForeignͲborn
USͲborn
Total

Cases with 
Susceptibility 
Results
No.
49
11
60

Any Drug 
Resistance
No. 
(%)
9
(18)
2
(18)
11
(18)

INHͲResistant
No. 
(%)
3
(6)
1
(9)
4
(7)

MDRͲTB
No. 
(%)
0
(0)
0
(0)
0
(0)

Table 5. Sixty (60) cases in 2011 had susceptibility tested performed. There were no cases of MDR-TB or
XDR-TB in suburban Cook County in 2011.

14
Page 112 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Table 6. Trends in the Number of Reported Tuberculosis Cases, HIV Testing and
Coinfection with HIV, Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011
Year
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011

TB Cases
No.
130
122
91
120
116
139
100
100
93
75

Tested for HIV
No.
(%)
72
(55)
89
(73)
75
(82)
94
(78)
85
(73)
109
(78)
87
(87)
77
(77)
72
(77)
67
(89)

Coinfected with HIV*
No.
(%)
5
(7)
7
(8)
†
†
6
(6)
†
†
6
(6)
9
(10)
5
(6)
0
(0)
†
†

* Persons with HIV who receive a TB diagnosis are defined as having AIDS.
† Cells with small counts (1Ͳ4) have been suppressed. 

Table 6. Testing for HIV among reported cases of TB increased from 55% in 2002 to 89% in 2011. Between
1-4 cases were coinfected in 2011 (the exact number is suppressed to protect the confidentiality). Persons with
TB and HIV coinfection are classified, by AIDS surveillance case definition, as having AIDS.

15
Page 113 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Figure 5. Mode of Treatment Administration in Reported PulmonaryTuberculosis Cases,
Suburban Cook County, 2002-2011
DOT

DOT+SA

SA

2005

2006

2007

Prop
portion of R
Reported & Eligible* Pu
ulmonary TTB 
Case
es

100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2002

2003

2004

2008

2009

2010

2011

Year
* Percentage includes cases alive at diagnosis, who did not die during therapy
with one or more anti-tuberculosis drugs prescribed and excludes persons with
missing or unknown information regarding mode of treatment administration.

Figure 5. The proportion of TB cases receiving directly observed therapy (DOT), whether DOT only or DOT
with some self-administered (SA) therapy has increased over time. The proportion of pulmonary TB cases receiving directly observed therapy (DOT only or DOT+SA) increased from 79% in 2002 to 98% in 2011.

16
Page 114 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Figure 6. Completion of Tuberculosis Therapy, Suburban Cook County, 2000-2009
Completed Therapy (<1 year)

Completed Therapy (Ever)

HP2020 Goal (ч12 Months)

100

Proportion of Reported &
& Eligible* TB C
Cases 

90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2000

2001

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

Year

Figure 6. In 2009, the most recent year for which data on completion of tuberculosis therapy are available, 96%
of reported TB cases who were eligible* completed treatment.
In 2009, 82% of eligible* persons completed treatment in less than one year. This is below the Department of
Health and Human Services Healthy People 2020 goal of 93%.

* Eligible cases are persons who were alive at the time of TB diagnosis and did not die during therapy, and excludes persons with TB resistant to rifampin and pediatric
cases (<15 years) with a diagnosis of meningeal, bone/joint, or miliary TB.

17
Page 115 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Figure 7. Reported Tuberculosis Case Rates (per 100,000 population) by Municipality (Suburban
Cook County or Community Area (Chicago), Cook County, 2011
2

6

5
32

3
16
8

11

22

24
1

30
15

17

12

27

G

4

14

25

10

35

19

36

21

31
4

13

7

29

9

65

28

65

18
12

10

76

59

63

70

3

16

15

17
47

77
4

14

48

1

2

13

11

66

38

²

33

20
15
9

34

23

26

5

21

18

19

20

6

22

7

60
67

58

62

39
37

49

TB Rate per 100,000 Population

G

57

61
54

> 6.5

50

CCDPH TB Clinics

56
45

52

Chicago Community Areas

59

64

85
95

92
96
93

71

45

44

74

46

50

52
51

75

87
75

91

77

53

99

122
120 102

103

108

116
113

89
129

101

55

54

123
115

90

73

72

49

79

80

Data for Chicago's Community Areas
Courtesy of J. Jones, MD and M. Reina, MPH,
Tuberculosis Control Program,
Chicago Department of Public Health

43

47 48

81

88

93

69

84

83

86

42

68

67

70

74

78

41

40

66

65

76

36
38 39

37

61

63

62

56

94

58

57

73

51

43

33
34
60 35

30

72

55

53

69

32

28
31

44

40
64

42

8

29

68 41

3.0 - 6.5

27

26

46

< 3.0

G

71

24

23

25

109

97

119

G

104

98
126

128

111

110
107

105
105
117

112

114
82

0

4

100

121

8

118

125
127

106
124

16 Miles

18
Page 116 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Table 7. Map Key - Suburban Cook County Municipalities
and Chicago Community Areas
City/Town/Com. Area
Arlington Heights
Barrington
Barrington Hills
Bartlett
Buffalo Grove
Deerfield
Des Plaines
East Dundee
Elgin
Elk Grove Village
Glencoe
Glenview
Golf
Hanover Park
Hoffman Estates
Inverness
Kenilworth
Lincolnwood
Morton Grove
Mount Prospect
Niles
Northbrook
Northfield
Palatine
Park Ridge
Prospect Heights
Rolling Meadows
Roselle
Schaumburg
South Barrington
Streamwood
Wheeling
Wilmette
Winnetka
Evanston
Skokie
Bellwood
Bensenville
Berkeley
Berwyn
Broadview
Brookfield
Burr Ridge
Cicero
Countryside
Forest Park
Franklin Park
Harwood Heights
Hillside
Hinsdale
Hodgkins
Indian Head Park
La Grange
La Grange Park
Lyons
McCook
Maywood
Melrose Park
Norridge
Northlake

Ref #
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60

City/Town/Com. Area
North Riverside
River Forest
River Grove
Riverside
Rosemont
Schiller Park
Stone Park
Westchester
Western Springs
Elmwood Park
Oak Park
Stickney
Forest View
Burbank
Alsip
Bedford Park
Blue Island
Bridgeview
Chicago Ridge
Crestwood
Evergreen Park
Frankfort
Hickory Hills
Hometown
Justice
Lemont
Merrionette Park
Oak Lawn
Orland Hills
Orland Park
Palos Heights
Palos Hills
Palos Park
Summit
Willow Springs
Worth
Burnham
Calumet City
Calumet Park
Chicago Heights
Country Club Hills
Dixmoor
Dolton
East Hazel Crest
Flossmoor
Ford Heights
Glenwood
Harvey
Hazel Crest
Homewood
Lansing
Lynwood
Markham
Matteson
Midlothian
Oak Forest
Olympia Fields
Park Forest
Phoenix
Posen

Ref #
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120

City/Town/Com. Area
Richton Park
Riverdale
Robbins
Sauk Village
South Chicago Heights
South Holland
Steger
Thornton
Tinley Park
Rogers Park
West Ridge
Uptown
Lincoln Square
North Center
Lake View
Lincoln Park
Near North Side
Edison Park
Norwood Park
Jefferson Park
Forest glen
North Park
Albany Park
Portage Park
Irving Park
Dunning
Montclare
Belmont Cragin
Hermosa
Avondale
Logan Square
Humboldt Park
West Town
Austin
West Garfield Park
East Garfield Park
Near West Side
North Lawndale
South Lawndale
Lower West Side
Loop
Near South Side
Armour Square
Douglas
Oakland
Fuller Park
Grand Boulevard
Kenwood
Washington Park
Hyde Park
Woodlawn
South Shore
Chatham
Avalon Park
South Chicago
Burnside
Calumet Heights
Roseland
Pullman
South Deering

Ref #
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51

City/Town/Com. Area
Ref #
East side
52
West Pullman
53
Riverdale
54
Hegewisch
55
Garfield Ridge
56
Archer Heights
57
Brighton Park
58
Mckinley Park
59
Bridgeport
60
New City
61
West Elsdon
62
Gage Park
63
Clearing
64
West Lawn
65
Chicago Lawn
66
West Englewood
67
Englewood
68
Greater Grand Crossing
69
Ashburn
70
Auburn Gresham
71
Beverly
72
Washington Heights
73
Mount Greenwood
74
Morgan Park
75
O',are                                           ϳϲ          
Edgewater
77

19
Page 117 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Table 8. Reported Tuberculosis Cases and Rates (per 100,000 population) by Municipality,
North and West Districts, Suburban Cook County, 2009-2011
NORTH
City
Arlington Heights
Barrington
Barrington Hills
Bartlett
Buffalo Grove
Des Plaines
Elgin
Elk Grove Village
Evanston
Glencoe
Glenview
Golf
Hanover Park
Hoffman Estates
Inverness
Kenilworth
Lincolnwood
Morton Grove
Mount Prospect
Niles
Northbrook
Northfield
Palatine
Park Ridge
Prospect Heights
Rolling Meadows
Roselle
Schaumburg
Skokie
South Barrington
Streamwood
Wheeling
Wilmette
Winnetka

Total

2009
No.
Rate
2
2.7
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
7
12.0
0
0.0
1
3.0
4
5.4
0
0.0
2
4.5
0
0.0
1
4.8
5
9.6
0
0.0
0
0.0
3
23.8
4
17.2
4
7.4
1
3.4
2
6.0
0
0.0
4
5.8
1
2.7
3
18.5
0
0.0
0
0.0
2
2.7
8
12.3
0
0.0
1
2.7
3
8.0
1
3.7
0
0.0

59

5.5

2010
No.
4
0
0
0
0
8
0
1
4
0
1
0
2
3
0
0
1
1
4
6
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
1
6
0
3
3
0
0

51

Rate
5.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
13.7
0.0
3.0
5.4
0.0
2.2
0.0
9.7
5.8
0.0
0.0
7.9
4.3
7.4
20.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.7
0.0
4.1
0.0
1.3
9.3
0.0
8.2
8.0
0.0
0.0

5.1

2011
No.
1
0
0
1
0
3
0
3
0
0
0
0
0
5
0
0
3
0
3
3
0
0
0
1
2
0
0
1
5
0
1
7
0
0

39

Rate
1.3
0.0
0.0
6.0
0.0
5.1
0.0
9.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
9.6
0.0
0.0
23.8
0.0
5.5
10.1
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.7
12.3
0.0
0.0
1.3
7.7
0.0
2.7
18.6
0.0
0.0

3.7

City
Bellwood
Bensenville
Berkeley
Berwyn
Broadview
Brookfield
Burr Ridge
Cicero
Countryside
Elmhurst
Elmwood Park
Forest Park
Forest View
Franklin Park
Harwood Heights
Hillside
Hinsdale
Hodgkins
Indian Head Park
La Grange
La Grange Park
Lyons
Maywood
McCook
Melrose Park
Norridge
North Riverside
Northlake
Oak Brook
Oak Park
River Forest
River Grove
Riverside
Rosemont
Schiller Park
Stone Park
Westchester
Western Springs
Total

2009
No. 
0
0
2
2
1
0
0
2
0
0
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
0.0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
0
19

Rate
0.0
0.0
38.4
3.5
6.1
0.0
0.0
2.4
0.0
0.0
0.0
14.1
0.0
5.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
52.7
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.3
0.0
7.9
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
1.9
0.0
9.8
0.0
0.0
8.5
0.0
6.0
0.0
3.4

WEST
2010
No.
Rate
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
3.5
0
0
0
0
2
52.1
0
0
1
17
0
0
1
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
12.3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
8.3
0
0
1
3.9
1
6.9
1
15
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
13
2.3

2011
No.
1
0
0
2
0
0
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
15

Rate
5.2
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
5.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.3
0.0
0.0
0.0
15.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
8.5
0.0
0.0
0.0
2.7

Rates per 100,000 population per year. Rates calculated using 2010 Census data.

20
Page 118 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

Table 9. Reported Tuberculosis Cases and Rates (per 100,000 population) by Municipality,
South and Southwest Districts, Suburban Cook County, 2009-2011
City
Burnham
Calumet City
Chicago Heights
Country Club Hills
Dixmoor
Dolton
East Hazel Crest
Flossmoor
Ford Heights
Glenwood
Harvey
H lC t
Hazel Crest
Homewood
Lansing
Lynwood
Markham
Matteson
Midlothian
Oak Forest
Oak Forest
Olympia Fields
Park Forest
Phoenix
Posen
Richton Park
Riverdale
Robbins
Sauk Village
South  Chicago Heights
South Holland
Steger
Thornton
Tinley Park
University Park
University Park

2009
No.
Rate
0
0.0
1
2.7
1
3.3
0
0.0
0
0.0
2
8.6
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
4.0
1
7
1
7.1
0
0.0
2
7.1
0
0.0
1
8.0
0
0.0
1
6.7
0
0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
00
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
4.5
1
24.4
0
0.0
1
2.0
0
00
0.0

SOUTH
2010
No.
Rate
0
0.0
2
5.4
1
3.3
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
4.3
0
0.0
1
10.6
0
0.0
0
0.0
2
7.9
0
0
0
0.0
1
5.2
0
0.0
1
11.1
1
8.0
0
0.0
1
6.7
3
10
7
10.7
0
0.0
1
5.4
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
7.3
2
14.8
0
00
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
2.0
0
00
0.0

2011
No.
Rate
0
0.0
0
0.0
2
6.6
2
12.1
0
0.0
1
4.3
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0
0
0.0
1
5.2
1
3.5
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
6.7
0
0
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
5.4
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
00
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
4.5
1
24.4
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
00
0.0

Total

13

19

11

2.8

4.0

2.3

City
Alsip
Bedford Park
Blue Island
Bridgeview
Burbank
b k
Calumet Park
Chicago Ridge
Crestwood
Evergreen Park
Forest View
Hickory Hills
Hometown
H
t
Justice
Lemont
Merrionette Park
Oak Lawn
Orland Hills
Orland Park
Palos Heights
Palos Heights
Palos Hills
Palos Park
Stickney
Summit
Willow Springs
Worth

Total

2009
No.
Rate
1
5.2
0
0.0
2
8.4
0
0.0
1
3.5
1
12.8
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
00
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
3
5.3
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
00
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
18.1
0
0.0

9

2.2

SOUTHWEST
2010
No.
Rate
0
0.0
0
0.0
2
8.4
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
1
7.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
00
0.0
1
7.7
0
0.0
0
0.0
3
5.3
0
0.0
2
3.5
1
80
8.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0
0
0.0

10

2.5

No
0
0
2
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0

2011
Rate
0.0
0.0
8.4
6.1
3.5
0.0
7.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
7.1
0
0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
3.5
0.0
1.8
0
0.0
0
0.0
0.0
0.0
9.0
0.0
0.0

10

2.5

Rates per 100,000 population per year. Rates calculated using 2010 Census data.

21
Page 119 of 126

 Annual Tuberculosis Surveillance Report, 2011

Cook County Department of Public Health

TECHNICAL NOTES
Surveillance Methodology
Healthcare providers and laboratories in suburban Cook County are required to report the following results
within 24 hours: (1) sputum or tissue smears positive for acid-fast bacilli (AFBs); (2) cultures positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis; (3) mycobacterial drug susceptibility results; (4) any other tests positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. In addition, confirmed TB cases must be reported to CCDPH within 7 days.
TB case reports are entered into I-NEDSS and provide the basis for the information presented in this report.
This report includes all cases of tuberculosis reported during the year in which the case was confirmed. Confirmed TB cases who may have moved into suburban Cook County from another jurisdiction are not reflected in
the data presented herein; such cases are counted in the jurisdiction that reported the case. Likewise, confirmed
TB cases reported in suburban Cook County who may have moved out of suburban Cook County are included
in the data presented herein.
Reported TB Case Rates
Suburban Cook County, Chicago and Illinois TB rates between 1993-1999 were calculated using 1990 census
data. Suburban Cook County, Chicago and Illinois TB rates between 2000-2009 were calculated using 2000
census data. Suburban Cook County, Chicago and Illinois TB rates after 2009 were calculated using 2010 census data. National TB rates were calculated using national intercensal estimates.

22
Page 120 of 126

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
August 21, 2012

ATTACHMENT #6

Page 121 of 126

 John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

 

Medical Staff AppointmentsIReappointments and Non-Medical Staff Action Items Subject to
Approval by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee

 

Carqueville, Jordan C., MD
Appointment Effective:

Ellis-Pelletier, Amanda, DO
Appointment Effective:

Giovingo, Michael, MD
(Eye Screening only)
Appointment Effective: 

Marshall, Robert, MD
Appointment Effective:

Oyedele, Temitope 0., MD
Appointment Effective:

Ra?q, Asad, MD
Appointment Effective:

Russell, Frances, MD
Appointment Effective:

Warrior, Lakshmi, MD
Appointment Effective:

Jeff, MD
(Eye Screening only)
Appointment Effective:

INITIAI: APPOINTMENT 

Medicine/Dermatology
August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Pediatrics
August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Surgery/Ophthalmology
August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Radiology
August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Medicine/ID
August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

MedicinelGastroenterology
August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Emergency Medicine
August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Medicine/Neurology
August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Surgery/Ophthalmology

August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Active Physician
Voluntary Physician

Service Physician

Affiliate Physician
Active Physician
Active Physician
Voluntary Physician
Active Physician

Service Physician

INITIAL PRIVILEGES FOR NON STAFF

Francis, Sarah J., CNP

With crapp, Williams D. MD

Effective:

Melvin, Amy M., CNP

With Cohen, Robert A.C., MD

Effective:

Item ?August 21, 2012

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting

Medicine
August 21, 2012,'thru August 20, 2014
Medicine

August 21, 2012, thru August 20, 2014

Nurse Practitioner

Nurse Practitioner


APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY

HITTEE

on AUGUST 21, 2012

Page I of 5

Page 122 of 126

John H. Jr. Hospital of Cook County (continued)
REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Department of Anesthesiology

Paek, Hyang Won, MD Adult Anesthesia Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: September 21 2012, thru September 20, 2014

Department of Correctional Health Services

Menezes, Ralph, MD Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: August 26, 2012, thru August 25, 2014
Talamayan, Kathleen, MD Family Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: August 26, 2012, thru August 25, 2014

Department of Emeraencv Medicine

Smith, Lauren, MD Emergency Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: September 23, 2012, thru September 22, 2014

Sullivan, Daniel, MD Emergency Medicine Honorary Physician
Reappointment Effective: September 23, 2012, thru September 22, 2014

Department of Medicine

Abrahamian, Frida P., MD Gastroenterology Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: September 6, 2012 thru September 5, 2014

Aziz, Marian 8., MD Infectious Disease Voluntary Physician
Reappointment Effective: August 26, 2012 thru August 25, 2014

Ilie, lonut 0., MD General Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: August 26, 2012 thru August 25, 2014

Joseph, Sindhu L., MD Hospital Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: August 26, 2012 thru August 25, 2014

Mackie, Orlanda B., MD General Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: August 26, 2012 thru August 25, 2014

Mahapatra, Ena, MD General Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: September 6, 2012 thru September 5, 2014

Watson, MD General Medicine Voluntary Physician
Reappointment Effective: September 3, 3012 thru September 2, 2014

Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

Chor, Julie, MD OB/Gyne Consulting Physician
Reappointment Effective: September 21, 2012, thru September 20, 2014

Gerber, Susan, MD Maternal Fetal Medicine Voluntary Phys' 
Reappointment Effective: September 21, 2012, thru September 20, 2014 corms

Item ?August 21, 2012

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 2 Of 5 APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY MMITTEE
page 123 of 126 ON AUGUST 21, 2012

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications (continued)

Department of Pediatrics

Bhurgri, Abdul, H., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Fordwor?Koranteng, Ama, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Giordano, Lisa, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Kane, Jason, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Marshall, Jacqueline, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Seivam, Leela, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Speed, Curtis, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Tobin, Mary, C., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Surqerv

Anderson-Nelson, Susan, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Berktold, Robert, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Brown, Anthony, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Caruso, Joseph, DDS
Reappointment Effective:

Johnson, Donna, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Laveau, Robert, DPM
Reappointment Effective:

McDonald, Sarah, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Panos. George, DDS
Reappointment Effective:

Item 2012

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting

Neonatology
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Neonatology
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Hematology/Oncology
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Pediatric Critical Care
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Pediatrics
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Neonatology
August 25, 2012 thru August 24, 2014

Pediatrics
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Allergy
August 26, 2012 thru August 25, 2014

Ophthalmology
September 6, 2012 thru September 5, 2014

Otolaryngology
August 26, 2012 thru August 25, 2013

Orthopedics
September 20, 2012 thru September 19, 2014

Oral/Maxillofacial
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Ophthalmology
August 26, 2012 thru August 25, 2014

Podiatry
September 21, 2012 thru September 20, 2014

Otolaryngology
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Oral/Maxiilofacial
August 26, 2012 thru August 25, 2014

Service Physician

Service Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Affiliate Physician

Affiliate Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Consulting Dentist

Active Physician

Active Podiatrist

Active Physician

Active Dentist



Page 3 of 5

APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAP



Page 124 of 126 on AUGUST 21, 2012

John H. Stroqer, Jr. Hospital of Cook Copnty
Reappointment Applications

Department of Surgery (continued!

Valentino, Daniel, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Whelchel, Joan, MD
Reappointment Effective:
Department of Trauma

Poulakidas, Stathis, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Surgical Critical Care
August 25, 2012 thru August 24, 2014

Ophthalmology
August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Trauma
September 6, 2012 thru September 5, 2014

Renewal of Privileges for Non-Mec?l Sta?

Burgess, V., CNS
With Pyati, Suma P., MD
Effective:

Chillis, Nikya C., PA-C

With Patel, Ashlesha, MD
Alternate Pelta, Murray, MD
Effective:

Hu, szy-Chyn, CNP
With Martinez, Enrique, MD
Effective:

Marks, Irene, CNP
With Abrego, Fidel, MD
Effective:

Novak, Mary Frances, CRNA
Effective:

Rogowski, Wendy A., PA-C
With Lad, Thomas E., MD

Pediatrics
September 23, 2012 thru September 22, 2014

Ob/Gyne

September 23, 2012 thru September 22, 2014
Medicine

October 21, 2012 thru October 20, 2012
Ob/Gyne

September 21, 2012 thru September 20, 2014

Anesthesiology
November 25, 2012 thru November 24, 2014

Medicine

Alternate Mullane, Michael R, MD

Effective:
Turner, Carol J., CNP

With Kelly, Russell P, MD
Effective:

item ?August 21, 2012

November 25, 2012 thru November 24, 2014
Medicine

September 21, 2012 thru September 20, 2014

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Clinical Nurse Specialist

Physician Assistant

Nurse Practitioner

Nurse Practitioner

Nurse Anesthetist

Physician Assistant

Nurse Practitioner


APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT Sn 
on AUGUST 21, 2012

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 4 Of 5

Page 125 of 126

Provident Hospital of Cook County

 

Medical Staff AppointmentsIReappointments and Non-Medical Staff Action Items Subject to
Approval by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee

 

APPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Ra?q, Asad, MD Internal Medicine/Gastroenterology Affiliate Physician
Appointment Effective: August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Telemedicine

Bold, Jonathan, MD Radiologyfl'eleradiology
Privileges: August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014
Fassihi, Amir, MD Radiology/Teleradiology
Privileges: August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014
Parkey, Joe, MD Radiology/Teleradiology
Privileges: August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS
Department of Emerqencv Medicine

Murphy, Michael, MD Emergency Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: August 17, 2012, thru August 16, 2014

Department of Family Medicine

Floyd, Gail, MD Family Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: September 20, 2012 thru September 19, 2014

Department of Internal Medicine

Vyas, Jyotin I. Internal Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: August 21, 2012 thru August 20, 2014

Department of Surgery

Laveau, Robert, DPM Surgery Affiliate Podiatrist
Reappointment Effective: September 17, 2012 thru September 16, 2014

Puila, Richard, DPM Surgery Af?liate Podiatrist
Reappointment Effective: September 17, 2012 thru September 16, 2014


Item +August 21, 2012
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 5 Of 5 APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAF MITTEE
on Auous'r 21, 2012

Page 126 of 126

