HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: July 17, 2015
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Friday, July 24, 2015 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor
Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

9:00/Chairman Wiese

II.

Public Speakers

9:00-9:05

III.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources

9:05-9:30/Gladys Lopez

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of June 19, 2015

9:30-9:35/Chairman Wiese

B. **Approval of negotiated wages and healthcare changes for :
9:35-9:40/Gladys Lopez
 American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), representing employees in the Cook County Health Facilities
 House Staff Association of Cook County, representing post-graduate level
house staff physicians, dentists, residents, interns and fellows
 National Nurses Organizing Committee, representing registered nurses in
the Cook County Health Facilities, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
(JTDC) and the Department of Public Health
 Service Employees International Union, Local 20 CTW/CLC (SEIU Local
20 Doctors Council), representing physicians, psychologists and dentists in
the Cook County Health Facilities
C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V
V.

Closed Meeting Items

9:40-10:00

A. Report from Chief of Human Resources
B. Approval of negotiated wages and healthcare changes for (see Item IV(B)):
 American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), representing employees in the Cook County Health Facilities
 House Staff Association of Cook County, representing post-graduate level
house staff physicians, dentists, residents, interns and fellows
 National Nurses Organizing Committee, representing registered nurses in
the Cook County Health Facilities, Juvenile Temporary Detention Center
(JTDC) and the Department of Public Health
 Service Employees International Union, Local 20 CTW/CLC (SEIU Local
20 Doctors Council), representing physicians, psychologists and dentists in
the Cook County Health Facilities

** Also included as a potential Closed Session Item/Discussion under Section V.

 AGENDA
Friday, July 24, 2015 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
C. Discussion of personnel matters
D. Update on labor negotiations
E. Discussion of litigation matters
Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Wiese
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Collens and (TBD)

 