REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 23, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Warren L. Batts; Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors David A.
Ansell, MD, Hon. Jerry Butler; David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn
Greenspan, MPH, Sister Sheila Lyne, Luis Munoz, MD, 
Heather E. O?Donnell, JD, and Andrea Zopp (11)

Absent: None (0)

Also Present: Eileen Couture, MD Chief Medical Of?cer, Cermak Health Services; Matthew B.
DeLeon Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Patrick T.
Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the
State?s Attorney; Avery Hart, MD Chief, Division of General Medicine and Primary
Care, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Maurice Lemon, MD, MPH Chief Medical
Of?cer, Stroger HOSpital of Cook County; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; David Small Chief Operating
Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services 

. Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on
Wednesday, July 23, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 AM. at 1900 West Polk Street, Student Lounge, in

Chicago, Illinois.

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adOption of this report, the
recommendations follow. 

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the? roll of
members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Approval-of the minutes of the meeting of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors of Friday, July 11, 2008 at 7:30 AM.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Friday, July 11, 2008.

Director Carvalho noted that on pages eight and nine of the report, reference is made to the Illinois
Department of Public Health. The correct entity that should be referenced instead is the Illinois
Department of Human Services.

Chairman Batts stated that the correction would be duly entered on the record.

On the motion to approve the minutes, as amended, 3 voice vote was taken and THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY. .

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 23, 2008

PAGE 2
REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER

David Small, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Bureau of Health Services provided the Board with
information and updates on several issues.

Mr. Small informed the Board of the planned resignation of Cermak Health Services? Chief Medical
Of?cer, Eileen Couture, MD. Dr. Couture will be replaced by Avery Hart, MD, who is currently the
Chief of the Division of General Medicine and Primary Care at Stroger Hospital of Cook County.

Dr. Hart introduced himself to the Board and provided a brief summary of his background.

Mr. Small added that Dr. Hart would serve as Interim Chief Medical Of?cer until the medical staff at
Cermak Health Services starts the formal process through their own bylaws to form a committee for the
recommendation and selection of a permanent Chief Medical Of?cer.

With regard to revenue cycle activity, Mr. Small informed the Board that there may be a cash acceleration
of possibly more than $7 million. MedAssets has identi?ed several areas that could contribute to this,
such as identifying potential Medicaid eligibility from the self-pay population and aggressive targeting of
accounts past due more than 150 days.

Mr. Small stated that information would be brought before the Finance Committee within its next two
meetings regarding aged receivables recognized in audits as bad debt, and forwhich has been fully

reserved.

Mr. Small informed the Board that ?nancial information from the County as of May 2008 had not yet
been received. He added that the Bureau did not have a suitable general ledger system. He stated that a
review of available existing systems would be done, after which a recommendation would be made to the
Board in order to migrate from the hodge-podge of systems currently used by the Bureau.

Mr. Small indicated that two documents had been distributed to the Board. One was a memorandum with
regard to recruitment efforts from Cecil Marchand (Attachment and the other was information
. relating to Federal and State ?nancial pressures and opportunities for the System (Attachment 

Mr. Small informed the Board that through negotiations at the state and federal level with regard to a
regional bEd tax plan, a potential $86.5 million may. come to the County, if a state plan amendment
submitted to the federal government is passed.

In response to Director Ansell?s question of whether this potential revenue would be part of the revenue
projections for ?scal year 2009, Mr. Small responded that he would strongly recommend against
including this revenue as part of those projections.

Director Ansell requested that further information and updates, including operational dash boards, be
provided to'the Finance Committee on a basis.

Mr. Small responded that these reports are currently being deveIOped, and would be ready for their review
sometime in August.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 23, 2008
PAGE 3

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER (Continued) I

In response to Director Greenspan?s request for a summary of the agreement with MedAssets and a report
on their performance, Mr. Small responded that a report tracking their performance, workplan and
milestones was being created, and that the revenue cycle committee would monitor their progress. He
added that the revenue cycle committee was composed of himself, Cook County?s Chief Financial Of?cer
Donna Dunnings, Cook County?s Chief Information Of?cer Antonio Hylton, and other key individuals.

The committee is designed to meet every two weeks.

Director Carvalho inquired into the subject of enrollment and eligibility issues. He asked for an update on
current processes with regard to vendors currently engaged.

Mr. Small responded that the contract speci?cations for the current vendors require a certain level of
performance, however the MedAssets assessment indicates that the performance levels, due to various
reasons, are uneven and inconsistent.

Director O?Donnell requested a summary on the services being provided by the current vendors with
regard to progress and benchmarks, and information on how these services will be integrated into the

MedAssets contract.
Mr. Small replied that he would provide the information.

Director Carvalho requested that the Board receive copies of a letter from Mr. Small to the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services (Attachment which delineated the negotiations previously
mentioned with regard to the $86.5 million. He asked whether this potential revenue would be earmarked
only for the Health and Hospitals System or whether there would be subsequent negotiations with the
County in terms of what portion the System would receive.

Mr. Small responded that there has been no other indication to contradict the belief that 100% of these
dollars would go to the Health and Hospitals System. The nature of dollars to aid the uninsured would
dictate the use of the dollars in this manner.

In response to Director Carvalho?s concerns whether the level of funding through County tax dollars
would be affected if this potential revenue is System, Mr. Small responded that the
System would still need the full level of current funding through County tax dollars Mr. Small added
that the ?scal year 2009 personnel expense is expected to increase by $70 million due to collective

bargaining agreements.

Director O?Donnell inquired whether the $86.5 million was a gross or net amount, and whether the State
would receive a portion of the amount.

Mr. Small replied that due to speci?c calculations included in the plan, if there was a signi?cant drop in
the System?s Medicaid volume or a signi?cant change in the cost to deliver care, this would impact the

amount.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 23, 2008

PAGE 4
OLD BUSINESS

DISCUSSION AND ADOPTION OF SYSTEM BOARD RULES

Chairman Batts noted that the Board had previously received the proposed System BoardRules for their
review. (See Attachment 

Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the State?s Attorney, stated
that the document before them included all of the preposed changes received from the Directors. She
stated that the Board could either go through all marked changes one by one and vote them up or down
individually, or she could provide an overview of four issues identi?ed within the proposed System Board
Rules where there are alternative suggestions or further clari?cation is needed.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Butler, moved to. have Ms. Reidy provide an overview of the
four issues identified within the proposed System Board Rules. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANIMOUSLY.

Ms. Reidy addressed the ?rst issue, under Rule which concerned the of?ce of Board Secretary. She
explained that Director Carvalho suggested that the Board elect a Board Secretary from among the
Directors, but the Rules should include the addition of the Of?ce of Deputy Secretary. The Deputy-
Secretary would not be a Director and would carry out the duties and responsibilities assigned by the
Secretary. She noted that this change would be in lieu of suggestions to eliminate the Of?ce of Secretary.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to amend the Proposed Rules, to adopt
the recommendation made by Director Carvalho, under which the Rules shall state that the Board
elects a Board Secretary from among the Directors, and shall include the Of?ce of Deputy
Secretary. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY. 

Ms. Reidy addressed the second issue, under Rule which concerned the determination of the number
of members for each Standing Committee. She stated that Director Carvalho suggested that rather than
set a ?xed number of members for each committee, the number of members of each Standing Committee
should be determined by the Chairperson but in no event shall such a committee consist of less than three
(3) Director members. Ms. Reidy noted that if this suggestion is adopted, the remainder of the rules

would be edited accordingly.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Zopp, moved to amend the Proposed Rules, to adopt the
recommendation made by Director Carvalho, under which the Rules shall state that the number of
members of each Standing Committee shall be determined by?the Chairperson but in no event shall
such a committee consist of less than three (3) Director members. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANIMOUSLY.

Ms. Reidy addressed the third issue, under Rule 'which concerned Director O?Donnell?s
suggestion that the, Audit and Compliance Committee be folded into the Finance Committee or that it
become a subcommittee of the Finance Committee. Ms. Reidy requested further direction from the Board

on the issue.

Director O?Donnell explained the reason for the suggestion, however, she added that she would not have
a problem if there were separate Finance and Audit Committees.

Chairman Batts asked Director Mu?oz, Chairman of the Audit Committee, for his thoughts on the issue.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 23, 2008
PAGE 5

OLD BUSINESS (Continued) 

Director Munoz replied that enough issues came up in the Audit Committee?s recent inaugural meeting to
validate its separate existence. He felt that there were many important issues that needed deep attention,
and that type of attention could be given by a separate Audit Committee.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Butler, moved to amend the Proposed Rules, to make
the Audit Committee and Finance Committee separate committees. THE MOTION CARRED

UNANIMOUSLY.

Ms. Reidy addressed the fourth issue, concerning Director Carvalho?s suggestion to add language
pertaining to con?ict of interests on page 14 of the Proposed Rules. She noted that the Directors may
want to consider providing that the provisions in the recommended language also apply to non-Director

members of committees and subcommittees.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Butler, moved to amend the Proposed Rules, to include
the following language' 1n Rule 6, Con?icts of Interest:

(2) Any Director or non-Director member of a committee or subcommittee who has a conflict of
interest in a matter involving the System shall declare the con?ict to the System Board, or a
committee or subcommittee, in Open session, shall disclose the basis for the conflict and shall refrain
from participating' 1n the consideration of the matter, except as the Director may be called upon for

information.

On the motion to amend, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Ms. Reidy stated that the four issues identi?ed by the State?s Attorney have been addressed. She pointed
out that all other changes already included in the Draft Rules before them would be accepted and adopted
upon the approval of the Rules as amended. She offered the opportunity for Directors to address any
other issues prior to the motion to approve and adopt the Rules, as amended.

Director Ansell inquired into the reason for Director Carvalho?s suggestion "on page 6 which allows for
the exclusion of a Director who is not a member of a committee or subcommittee from attending a closed

session of the committee or subcommittee.

Director Carvalho explained that the reason for this suggestion related to potential con?ict of interest
issues. He added that the language providing for this mechanism was not mandatory, but rather,

permissive.

Director Mu?oz stated that if a Director took the time to come to a meeting, they should be afforded the
courtesy of attending the closed session. He felt that the Directors were competent enough to handle the 
. situation if an issue arises, and did notbelieve the suggestion should be adopted.

Director Munoz, seconded by Director Butler, moved to not include the language suggested by
Director Carvalho on Page 6 of the Draft Rules, with regard to excluding Directors from attending
the closed session of committees or subcommittees of which they are not a member. THE MOTION

CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 23, 2008
PAGE 6

OLD BUSINESS (Continued)

Director Ansell stated his preference that the name of the proposed Performance Improvement and Patient
Safety Committee be changed to ?Quality and Patient Safety Committee?. Furthermore, he requested that
in addition to the Chief Medical Of?cers and Presidents of the medical staffs of each institution who were
proposed to be ex?of?cio members without a vote, the chief nursing of?cers and Chief Operating Of?cers
of each institution should also be included, as ex-of?cio members without a vote.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to amend the Proposed Rules, and to adopt
the recommendations made by Director Ansell to change the name of the proposed Performance
Improvement and Patient Safety Committee to the Quality and Patient Safety Committee, and to
include the chief nursing of?cers and Chief Operating Officers of each institution as ex-officio
members of the Committee without a vote. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Zopp inquired into a notation made by the Of?ce of the State?s Attorney on page 14 of the Draft
Rules with regard to recordings of meetings.

Ms. Reidy stated that the Board and its committees are subject to the Open Meetings Act, which requires
the recording of closed sessions. The closed session recordings are protected by law, and are privileged.
These recordings would not be disclosed willingly; a court would have to order the disclosure.

Director Zopp asked Ms. Reidy for direction on the inclusion of language with regard to audio recording
and con?dentiality, while complying with Freedom of Information Act and Open Meetings Act

requirements.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Butler, moved to amend the Proposed Rules, to require the
recording of all meetings, including committee and subcommittee meetings, and to include language
in the Rules with regard to audio recordings and confidentiality 0f closed session recordings, While
complying with Freedom of Information Act and Open Meetings Act requirements.

Director Carvalho requested clari?cation on the motion made by Director Zopp with regard to public
access of open session audio recordings.

Director Zopp stated that her intention was not to place any restrictions on public access to the recordings
of open sessions.

On the motion to amend, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to adopt the Rules of Organizationand Procedure
of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Draft Version 2, dated July
23, 2008, to accept the marked revisions suggested by various Directors and to inelude the speci?c
revisions voted upon at this meeting. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Chairman Batts stated that the Board will receive ?nal copies of the Rules re?ecting all revisions. (See
Attachment 

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 23, 2008
PAGE 7

OLD BUSINESS (Continued)
ELECTION OF VICE CHAIRPERSON

Chairman Batts opened the floor to nominations for Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and HOSpitals System.

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to nominate Director Ramirez.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to nominate Director Zopp.

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Carvalho, moved to nominate Director Ansell.

Director Zopp withdrew her own name from consideration upon the nomination of Director?Ansell.
Upon hearing no other nominations, Chairman Batts closed the ?oor to nominations.

Director O?Donnell requested that the two candidates for Vice Chairman make a statement before the
Board.

Directors Ramirez and Ansell presented brief statements to the Board with regard to their interest in the
of?ce of Vice Chairperson.

Voting proceeded for the election of Vice Chairperson of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors. A roll call was taken, the results are as follows:

ROLL CALL TO ELECT A VICE CHAIRPERSON OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM BOARD OF DIRECTORS

In favor of Director Ansell for the position of Vice Chairperson:
Directors Carvalho, Lyne, O?Donnell and Zopp (4)

In favor of Director Ramirez for the position of Vice erson:

Directors Butler, Golden, Greenspan, Mu?oz and Ramirez (5)

Voting Present on the question:
Chairman Batts and Director Ansell (2)

With five votes in his favor, Director Ramirez was elected Vice Chairman of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors.

 

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Zopp, moved to take a ?ve minute recess THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

After the ?ve minute recess, Chairman Batts called the meeting back to order.

 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 23, 2008
PAGE 8
NEW BUSINESS
Committee Reports
Audit Committee Meeting of July 17, 2008

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to approve the Report of the Audit
Committee for the meeting of July 17,2008.

Director Carvalho pointed out that on page 5 of the Report of the Audit Committee, a reference to
?Central Management Services? should instead be ?Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services?.

On the motion to approve as amended, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Committee Reports .
Finance Committee Meeting of July 18, 2008

Director Greenspan requested that any submissions of materials to committees that are accepted by such
committees be included with the report as an attachment for their review so that the information is shared

with all Directors.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Ramirez, moved to approve the Report of the Finance
Committee for the meeting of July 18, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Committee Reports
Human Resources Committee Meeting of July 21, 2008

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the Report of the Human Resources
Committee for the meeting of July 21, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Committee Reports
Quality and Compliance Committee Meeting of July 21, 2008

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the Report of the Quality and
Compliance Committee for the meeting of July 21, 2008.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 23, 2008
PAGE 9

NEW BUSINESS (Continued)

Director Greenspan noted that on page 4 of the report, there were explicit listings of medical staff
leadership appointment recommendations, and in accepting the Report of the Quality and Compliance
Committee, the Board will be accepting the appointments.

Chairman Batts stated that it was duly noted.

On the motion to approve, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

DISCUSSION OF STRATEGIC PLANNING GUIDANCE FOR MANAGEMENT

Director Greenspan distributed a draft document to Chairman Batts and the Directors on the subject of the
Strategic Planning Process. He indicated that discussion on the subject was expected to take place at a

later date.

 

STATUS OF BARGAINING UNIT CONTRACTS AND CURRENT NEGOTIATIONS

Chairman Batts stated that this item was withdrawn, as the status of bargaining unit Contracts and current
negotiations was addressed at the meeting of the Human Resources Committee on July 21, 2008.

 

RECRUITMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER INTERIM AND PERMANENT

DISCUSSION OF THE REPORT BY THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE, CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION ISSUED JULY 11, 2008

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to recess the regular session and convene into
closed session, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et
seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of speci?c employees of the public body or
legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,?
and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS which states:
?Litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and
is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body ?nds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting?. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 23, 2008
PAGE 10

NEW BUSINESS (Continued)

Director Ansell, seconded by Director 'Lyne, moved that the Board create the position of interim
Chief Medical Officer of the Bureau of Health Services, and to authorize Chairman Batts and the
ad hoc Search Committee to identify such a candidate for the position through their search
processes. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Director Carvalho voted No.

 

A consensus was'reached to set the meeting dates for the rest of 2008 as soon as possible. Chairman
Batts requested that the Secretary compile possible dates for the Board?s review and subsequent approval

at the Board?s next meeting.

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS

Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.

1. George Blakemore Concerned Citizen 
2. Sherry E. Weingart, MPH Concerned Citizen (written statement provided Attachment 
3. Robyn Gabel ExecutiveDirectOr, Illinois Maternal and Child Health Coalition (written

statement provided Attachment 

 

ADJOURNMENT

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to adjourn. MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Mme/31W

Warren L. Batts, Chairman

73> 9L

I Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

 

 

 

23252003

MEMO Te: David Small
8 - -. COO Bureau Of Health

Associate Admmistrator

ATTACHMENT #1

Please ?nd documentation you requested regardingthe request to hire forms that were submitted to our department as follows:

POSTED POSITIONS:

FRQM: Cecil Marchand . - I I 
REQUESTTOHIRE STROGER 897 PROVIDENT 891 OAK FOREST ACHN 893- RES 890 . CERMAK 240 PUBLIC CORE 894

898 . HEALTH 895 - 37?

PENDING INTERVIEWS:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STROGER s97 OAK FOREST ACHN 393 Bus? 390 . CERMAK 240 CORE 894

891 898 HEALTH 395 re? 
6 2 2 . -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

POSITIONS WAITING TO BE POSTED:

 

STROGER 897 PROVIDENT OAK FOREST ACHN 893. . BHS 890 CERMAK 240 PUBLIC CORE 894 (3)

891 - 898 HEALTH s95
 2008 Federal/State Financial
Pressures and Opportunities for 
Cook County Health
- and 
Hospitals System

I I
ATTACHMENT #2

Current Federal/State Financing
Issues 1 

FiXed by provisions related to BIPA 
agreement caused-a nearly $80 million loss in the past 

3-4 years. . . . -
Brief reprieVe but continued pressurefrom federal cost-

based rule and federal pressure on re-framing the upper
limit calculations drive the current challenges 

Relationshipwith the stateMedicaid has strengthened
limproved. GRF and/or GRF related revenues have 
historically and at present remain a major challenge. -

Greater competition for Medicaid inpatients and -
outpatients due to the hospital assessment program and
Primary Care Case Management (PCCM) ?medical
home? model for ambulatory care; 



Ul

anuaneu

Total Net State Revenues
'12

500? . Total

400
350
300

250

 

zoo- - 
150 -
100? 1 - NethT1

 

 

 

2005 A 2006 2007 1 2008 2009 2010 2011 . . 2012
State Fiscal Year

NOTE does not include 2008 - -

 

Total Net State Revenues

SFY '02- '10

 

?.2003. 72094 2005.1; . 290:6. . 2097;.

2008

.j 2009. 

2010j

 

252.37 235.28 299.42 244.45 290.73 240.11

211.60

211.60,

211.60

 

?18101113211214.8138; 102.00 114.80 109.70 94.50 85.06 39.88

7.30

 

.BIPA 0' 37.21 88.53 110.20 127.30 131.25

131.25

131.25

131.25

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

110011 354.37 387.29 497.65 449.15 503.09 411.24

 

350.15

 

342.851

 

342.85

 

Note: 2009 and 2010 projected steady With 2008;
does not include 2008 DSH SPA 

 

What is Pendingin Baltimore

A combined state plan amendment (submitted April 2008) that sets forth the
assessment and a complementary state plan amendment that provides
disproportionate share funding for Cook County hospital.

As negotiations have continued, the state has agreed to separate the DSH
SPA if the DSH SPA continues to generate relatively few questions from
HHS. This separation may happen very. soon.

If DSH SPA ApprOved as is:

Funding scheduled to be $86.5 million for next year .
More traditional way to access funds ?federal and state ?friendly?
-- 'Possibility for some retroactive funding

Fight for predictability/PPS and fight fOr Cook?s allocation i.e. other hospitals
desire for DSH - 

What Didn?t/Did pass Illinois
General Assembly? 

Did Not Pass

No GRF or GRF-like
assistance

Regional Tax ?Afederal CMS
and state reluctance to move
quickly on unprecedented

Did Pass

 

Assessment bill that affects

over 200 providers statewide

Specific references to the
County?s part of the deal
which: 

Establishes a legislative intent
that the state/GA/County will
?discuss how mutual funding
goals are to be achieved? if
certain contingencies occur

Requires that receive
a fixed and sizeable portion of
the DSH cap due to their high
level of uncompensated care

Requires that the state submit
the DSH 

Takeaways 

- State and County will work for an increased DSH
allocation that has a stronger relationship With its
high level-of uncompensated care - A

Building a Stronger Financial Infrastructure:
Improve management of Medicaid and
uncompensated care business, 

- Remittance advice pilot and stronger revenue tracking
mechanisms; - - 

- Improved and more timely cost reporting;

- Enhanced revenue and cost reporting-will enable higher
quality strategic decision?making re Medicaid and 
uncompensated care sustainable business models;

 

Robert R. Simon, M.D.
Interim Chief
Bureau of Health Services

David R. Small, FACHE
Chief Operating Officer
Cook County Bureau of Health Services
1900 West Polk Street, Suite 123
Chicago, Illinois 60612
Tel: (312) 864?0934

Cook County" Bureau of Health Services

Todd H. Stroger Af?liates:
President 
Cook County Board of Commissioners

 

July 17, 2008

Herb Kuhn

Deputy Administrator

Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services
7500 Security Blvd.



Baltimore, MD 21244

Dear Mr. Kuhn:

The Cook County Bureau of Health Services is, by far, the largest safety net provider in the
Chicago metropolitan area, and in the State of Illinois. Cook County hospitals and clinics provide
the greatest volume of care for uninsured and for Medicaid patients of any provider in the state.
Hundreds of millions of dollars in charity care is furnished every year. The County has
longstanding, important relationships with the State and the federal government that recognize the
unique contributions of Cook County to the regional and statewide healthcare infrastructure.

Over recent years, the Cook County Bureau of Health Services has lost access to tens of millions
of dollars of Medicaid reimbursements due to implementation of federal regulations governing
permissible payments to public hospitals. The strains to the ?nancial foundations of the Bureau
of Health caused by those losses regrettably contributed to reductions in our scope of health care
services and healthcare access last year. Additional regulations yet scheduled for implementation
through CMS may reduce further the potential Medicaid reimbursements to Cook County?s safety
net system providers.

In April of 2008, the State of Illinois submitted a State Plan Amendment (transmittal number 08-
06) that, among other things, would permit Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payments to
be made to County hospitals. Cook County is very excited about this opportunity that would
enable continuation of services to tens of thousands of uninsured clients. We believe that this
proposed amendment to Illinois? DSH program is fully consistent with principles articulated by
the Administration and by CMS for ?nancing healthcare for the uninsured through public
providers, and that CMS will be supportive of the proposal once it is fully reviewed.

The Illinois General Assembly passed SenateBill 2857 this spring to support that State Plan

Amendment. The County worked very closely with the State of Illinois to craft that legislation
and to submit the State Plan Amendment.

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community

Printed on Recycled Paper

Health Services

Oak Forest Hospital
Provident Hospital
Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center

312 864-9748 
E-milil: ATTACHMENT #3

 

Ambulatory Community Health Network

Cook County Department of Public Health

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
. (formerly Cook County Hospital)

Herb Kuhn
July 17, 2008.
Page 2

We respectfully request that you consider expedited approval of the Illinois? State Plan
Amendment 08-06 with respect to the DSH proposal. This funding stream is critical to the
County?s present and future. Timing is extremely important to the County as we approach the
?nal quarter of our County ?scal year, and key decisions soon must be made that may materially
impact patient access across our system.

We understand that the proposed DSH ?SPA?was ?bundled? with the State of Illinois? proposed
program alterations for an extended, or modi?ed statewide Hospital Assessment Tax. Cook
County has encouraged the State to work with CMS to split the proposed State Plan Amendment
into separate components. As we understand it, the DSH section .of the State?s request has
generated very few questions to this point, perhaps because of its routine character and its
comportment with CMS objectives. While the provider assessment portion of the State plan
amendment may well ultimately be approved, you uniquely would know that this may require
more discussions and negotiations that could delay review and approval of the DSH
request.

I believe at the present moment that the future looks bright for our public hosPital and health
system in Cook County. A new independent governance authority recently has been convened
. that will provide new direction for the system from an expert panel with a wide variety of
professional experience. This new governance effort, combined with the stabilization of
revenues, will contribute signi?cantly to a public health care system of high integrity and high
quality. -

We look forward to working with you, and with the State in reaching our shared goals of
providing access and quality care to our patients.

 

David R. Small
Chief Operating Of?cer

DRS/rlm

Cc: Todd H. Stroger, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Warren Batts, Chairman, Board of Directors, Cook County Health
and Hospitals System 
Barry Maram, Director, Illinois Dept. of Healthcare and Family Services

I Draft Rules Version 2

For System Board Consida? -

On July 23, 2008 ATTACHMENT #4

RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
Of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Preamble

The Cook County Board of Commissioners established the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System by Ordinance. The is governed by a Board of Directors (?System
Board?) as set forth in the Ordinance. The Ordinance sets forth the mission of the and
the general powers and duties of the System Board. In order to provide for the orderly
implementation of the Ordinance, the System Board adopts these Rules.

Rule 1. Purpose.
The purpose of these Rules is to:

Provide appropriate procedures and organization for the System Board to conduct its business
in an orderly and ef?cient manner; and

Foster accountability in the 

Rule 2. Definitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in these Rules, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

 

Chairperson of the System Board.



(0) Committee means a committee of the System Board and includes a standing committee, a
special committee and a standing or special subcommittee of a committee.

Director means a currently serving member of the System'Board.

Secretary means the Secretary of the System Board. (*Director O?Donnell suggests that
the position of Secretary be eliminated and that the System Board or the Chairperson be

1

 

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

authorized to hire someone to ful?ll this role as needed. If this suggestion is adopted, any
references to the role of Secretary in these Rules will be edited accordingly.)

System Board means the eleven-member Board of Directors charged with governing the


Vice Chairperson means the Vice Chairperson of the System Board.

Rule 3. Interpretation, force and effect._

Applicability. The meetings and actions of the System Board, including all of its committees,
shall be governed by these Rules.

Effective date. These Rules shall be in full force and effect upon adoption by the System
Board, and shall remain in full force and effect except as amended in accordance herewith, or
until superseded by new rules.

(0) Interpretation. These Rules are to be construed in accordance with the customary American
usage and meaning of parliamentary terms and expressions and the plain meaning of the ordinary
words appearing herein. In case of ambiguous application, these Rules shall be applied in a
manner that fosters openness, accountability and fairness in the operatiOn of the System Board.

Rule 4. Organization.

Of?cers. The System Board, each year at its annual meeting, shall elect Directors to serve as
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and Secretary. (*This section will be edited accordingly if the
of?ce of Secretary is eliminated.) A Director may be elected to any of the of?cer positions for
successive terms. I 

Chairperson.

The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the System Board, shall appoint
from among the System Board members, all the members of all standing and special
committees and their subcommittees, and designate their Committee Chairperson, shall
be an ex-of?cio member, with vote, of all committees of the System Board. The
Chairperson may, at the Chairperson?s discretion unless otherwise instructed by the
System Board, refer matters before the System Board to the proper committee of said
System Board for consideration and recommendation. The Chairperson or the
Chairperson?s designee shall be responsible for all correspondence of the System Board.

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

(2) Vice Chairperson .

The Vice-Chairperson shall perform the duties of the Chairperson in the
Chairperson?s absence or in the event of the Chairperson?s resignation, death, or
disability pending selection of the Chairperson?s successor at either a regular or special
meeting of the System Board. 

(3) Secretary 7

The Secretary shall keep suitable records Of all proceedings of each meeting of
the System Board and its committees and subcommittees. After approval, such records
shall be read and signed by the Chairperson or the presiding of?cer, and attested by the
Secretary. The System Board may have a seal on which shall be engraved the name of
the and said seal shall be kept by the Secretary and used in authentication of all
acts of the System Board. (*This section will be edited accordingly if the of?ce of
Secretary is eliminated.) 

 

(2) The standing committees of the System Board shall be:

(A) Finance: ?ve (5) Directors, including the Committee Chairperson, but not including
the Chairperson. This Committee shall be familiar with and review the income and
expenditures of the advise the Chief Executive Of?Cer, Chief Operating Of?cer
and Chief Financial Of?cer in preparation of the budget, review the proposed budget in
advance of presentation to the System Board, and make recommendations to the System
Board on all such ?nancial matters. Additionally, this Committee will develop and
present to the System Board, a recommended multi?year ?nancing plan in support of the

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

strategic plan adopted by the System Board. This Committee shall be
responsible. for developing, implementing and monitoring policies and pro'cedures
regarding procurement and contracting for the including providing for
appropriate review of purchase contracts by this Committee. This Committee shall
further develop its responsibilities and determine a plan to implement those
responsibilities. This Committee shall consider other matters as may be assigned by the
System Board. (*Committee membership is changed from four to ?ve to re?ect actual
committee assignments. Addition regarding procurement and Contracting suggested by
Director O?Donnell.)

(B) Audit and Compliance: three (3) Directors, including the Committee Chairperson, but
not including the Chairperson. This Committee shall receive and review the audit reports
prepared by internal departments and oversees the ?nancial reporting process on behalf
of the This Committee shall oversee the selection of independent auditors for
the in accordance with the enabling ordinance, review accounting policies and
?nancial reporting and disclosure practices of the and review the effectiveness
of the internal ?nancial controls. Additionally, the Committee will assist the
System Board in ful?lling its oversight responsibilities of the corporate
compliance effort. This Committee shall further develop its responsibilities and
determine a plan to implement those responsibilities. This Committee shall consider
other matters as may be assigned by the System Board. (*Director O?Donnell suggests
that the Audit and Compliance Committee be folded into the Finance Committee or that it
become a subcommittee of the Finance Performance Improvement and
Patient Safety: four (4) Directors, including the Committee Chairperson, but not
including the Chairperson. The President of each medical staff shall be an ex?
of?cio member of this Committee without a vote and shall not be considered for
determining a quorum. The Chief Medical Of?cer of each operating unit of the 
shall be an ex-of?cio member of this Committee without a vote and shall not be
considered for determining a quorum. This Committee shall oversee the quality, safety
and performance improvement programs of the with the goal of recognizing the
critical importance of maintaining high quality service and patient and staff safety and
satisfaction. This Committee shall receive reports on pertinent matters of quality, safety,
satisfaction, regulatory and accreditation activities at least quarterly from the 
Chief Executive Of?cer?s of?ce, and shall report on such matters to the System Board. -
This Committee shall be responsible for serving as a liaison between the 
hospital medical staffs and the System Board. It shall also be responsible for overseeing
the appointments and reappointments to the hospital medical staffs. An additional
purpose of this Committee is the full and candid discussion of matters. which affect the
medical staffs and the System Board. This Committee shall further develop its

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

responsibilities and determine a plan to implement those responsibilities. This
Committee shall consider other matters as may be assigned by the System Board.
(*Changes suggested by Chairperson Batts and Director O?Donnell, re?ecting
recommended change to incorporate the functions of the Medical Affairs Committee and
to eliminate that Committee. See immediately below.)

(*Change suggested by ChairpersOn Batts and Director O?Donnell. See above, (C),
Performance and Improvement of Patient Safety, where the liaison and
appointment/reappointment functions have been relocated.) 

(D) Human Resources: ?ve (5) Directors, including the COmmittee Chairperson, but not
including the Chairperson. This Committee shall develop and monitor policies and
procedures for the related to personnel issues with regard to all employees,
including physicians and dentists, within the including, but not limited to,
position classi?cation, compensation, recruitment, selection, hiring, discipline,
termination, grievance, af?rmative action, performance management, probationary
periods, training, promotion and maintenance of records. This Committee shall further
develop its responsibilities and determine a plan to implement those responsibilities. 
This Committee shall also consider other matters as assigned by the System Board.
(*Committee membership is changed from four to ?ve to re?ect actual committee
assignments. Addition adding ?monitor? suggested by State?s Attorney?s Of?ce.)

(3) A standing committee may create - a subcommittee. The motion creating a
subcommittee shall specify the subject matter of the subcommittee and the number of
members to be appointed thereto, and may specify a date upon which the subcommittee
shall be abolished. 

(3) Following each meeting of a standing committee, the Committee Chairperson shall
submit a report to the System Board for consideration at a meeting of the System Board.
The System Board shall either approve or receive and ?le a committee report. Approval
of a committee?s report by the System Board shall constitute approval of the actions 
and/or recommendations contained in the report. (*Addition suggested by the State?s
Attorney?s Of?ce.)

Membership and o?icers of standing committees and subcommittees.

(1) The members of each standing committee shall be appointed annually by the
Chairperson. The Chairperson may appoint non?Director members to a standing
committee. The Committee Chairperson shall appoint the members of a subcommittee .
and the Subcommittee Chairperson. .The Committee Chairperson may appoint non-
Director members to a subcommittee. The non-Director member of a standing committee

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

ora Subcommittee shall not have a vote, shall not be considered for a quorum but may
serve as Committee or Subcommittee Chairperson.

(2) The Chairperson shall be an ex?of?cio member, with voting rights, of each standing
committee to which the Chairperson is not an appointed member.

(3) A vacancy on a standing committee or subcommittee, or in the position of Committee

Chairperson or Subcommittee Chairperson, shall be created when a Director resigns from
such position or ceases to be a Director. Resignations shall be made in writing to the
Secretary, who shall notify the Chairperson and all Directors. (*This section
will be edited accordingly if the of?ce of Secretary is eliminated.)

(4) Vacancies on standing committees or in the position of Committee Chairperson shall
be ?lled by appointment by the Chairperson. Vacancies on subcommittees or in the
position of Subcommittee Chairperson shall be ?lled by the Committee Chairperson of
the committee which created the subcommittee.

(5) The Committee Chairperson or Subcommittee Chairperson shall have the authority to
call and preside at meetings of their respective committee or subcommittee.

(6) An Director, even if not a member of a committee or subcommittee, hall be
afforded the courtesy of participating in debate on any item before a committee or

 
    

(7) At the end of each ?scal year, each Committee Chairperson shall report a summary of
all matters pending in her or his committee to the System Board.

Special committees and subcommittees.

(1) The System Beard may create special committees. The Chairperson shall appoint the
Committee Chairperson and the members of a special committee. The Chairperson may
appoint non-Director members to a special committee or subcommittee. The non?
Director member shall not have a vote, shall not be considered for a quorum but may
serve as Committee Chairperson.

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

(2) The Chairperson shall be an ex-of?cio member, with voting rights, of each special
committee.

(3) A special committee may create a special subcommittee.

(4) The motion creating a special committee or special subcommittee shall specify the
subject matter of the special committee or special subcommittee and the number of
members to be appointed thereto, and mayspecify a reporting date in which event the.
special committee or special subcommittee shall be abolished as of such date. Unless an
earlier date is speci?ed by the motion, special committees and special subcommittees
shall expire one (1) year after their creation. .

Public hearings. The System Board may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the
performance of any of its responsibilities. Such public hearings may be held provided that the
following requirements are satis?ed: 

(1) a notice containing the time, place, subject matter of the hearing and solicitation of
pertinent public testimony shall be 
:placed on the website and

 
     
 

(2) an other applicable meeting noti?cation requirements found elsewhere in these
Rules or law. I

Discharge ?om a committee by the System Board. The System Board may discharge any
matter from a committee.

Rule 5. Parliamentary rules.
Meetings.

(1) The System Board shall hold regular meetings pursuant to an annual calendar set by
the System Board prior to December 1St of each year. Such calendar shall include the
date, time, and location of each regular meeting. The last regular meeting of System
Board shall be held in November and shall be the Annual Meeting. Election of System
Board of?cers for the next year shall take place at the Annual Meeting. (*Change
suggested by State?s Attorney?s Of?ce.)

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

(2) It shall be the duty of the Chairperson to call special meetings of the System Board
whenever the Chairperson determines such meetings are necessary. In addition to any
notice required by the Open Meetings Act or other applicable law, the Chairperson must
give no less than two business days advance written notice of such special meetings to
the Directors.

(3) Special meetings shall also be held whenever requested by at least one?third of the
Directors. In addition to any netice required by the Open Meetings Act or other
applicable law, the Secretary or his or her designee must give no less than two business
days advance written notice of such special meetings to the remaining Directors. (*This
section will be edited accordingly if the of?ce of Secretary is eliminated.)

(4) A special meeting may be called in the event that the Chairperson or one-third of the
SystemBoard states that an emergency exists. The Secretary or his or her designee must
give no less than twenty-four (24) hours advance written notice to the Directors and to
the public, unless such notice is not reasonable under the circumstances. In such case
notice shall be given as soon as practicable. (*This section will be edited accordingly if
the of?ce of Secretary is eliminated.)

(5) All notices of special meetings must include an agenda for such meeting.

(6) A quorum of Directors must be physically present at the location of a meeting of the
System Board, its committees or subcommittees.

(A) If a quorum of the Directors is physically present at a meeting of the System Board or
one of its committees or subcommittees, a majority of the Directors present and entitled
to vote may allow a Director to attend the meeting by other means if the Director is
prevented from physically attending because of: personal illness or disability; (ii)
employment purposes or the business of the public body; or a family or other
emergency. "Other means" is by video or audio conference. (*Changesuggested by
State?s Attomey?s Of?ce.)

. (B) If a Director wishes to attend a meeting by other means, the Director must notify the
Secretary before the meeting unless advance notice is impractical. (*This section will be
edited accordingly if the of?ce of Secretary is eliminated.)

Presiding of?cer. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the System Board and shall
generally perform the duties customarily performed by a presiding of?cer. In the absence of the
Chairperson, or during the temporary inability of the Chairperson to act, the Vice-Chairperson
shall preside at meetings of the System Board. If both the Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson

8

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008 i

are unable to preside at the meeting, the System Board shall appoint a Director to preside at that
meeting. In the absence of a Committee Chairperson, or during the temporary inability of the
Committee Chairperson to act, the Directors of that Committee shall appoint a Director who is a
member of that committee to preside at that meeting.

(0) Quorum. A majority of the Directors shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of the System
Board. A majority of Directors appointed to any committee or subcommittee shall constitute a
quorum for a meeting of such committee or subcommittee.

Majority votes. Actions of the System Board shall require the af?rmative vote of a majority
of the Directors present and voting at the meeting at which action is taken. Actions of a
committee or subcommittee of the System Board shall require the af?rmative vote of a majority
of the Directors present and entitled to vote at the meeting at which action is taken. A vote of
"present" shall not be counted in determining the number of Directors voting on a question.

Absence of quorum. Should a quorum not be present at any meeting of the SyStem Board or at
any committee or subcommittee meeting, the meeting shall not thereby stand adjourned, but the
Directors present shall be competent to adjourn, receive information or public testimony but take
no formal action, or recess the meeting. to a speci?ed date and time by a majority vote of those
Directors present and entitled to vote.

Order of business.

(1) At each regular meeting of the System Board, the order of business (unless otherwise
directed by the System Board) is as follows:

(A) Call to Order and Roll Call.

(B) Approval and correction of minutes of previous meetings.
(C) Report of the Chief Executive Of?cer

(D) Committee reports.

(E) Old business.

(F) New business.

(G) Adjournment.

(2) The System Board may grant members of thepublic leave to speak for up to three (3)
minutes on items pending before the System Board.

(3), All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the presiding
of?cer, without debate, subject to appeal. 

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

Prior notice to public; agendas.

(1) No less than two full business days before any meeting of the System Board or of a
committee or subcommittee, notice and an agenda for such meeting shall be provided to
the Chairperson, all Directors and all news media that have requested notice of meetings
and shall be posted at the principal of?ce of the System Board and at the location where
the meeting is to be held. In addition notices and agendas of all meetings shall be posted

 

(2) The agenda shall brie?y describe all matters that will be considered at the meeting.
Material pertinent to a matter on a System Board agenda shall be supplied, along with the
agenda, to the Chairperson and to each of the Directors, and all material pertinent to any
matter on a committee or subcommittee agenda shall be supplied, along with the agenda,
to each member of the committee or subcommittee. With the exception of materials that
are con?dential as provided by law, such material shall also be available to the public
upon request.

(3) Matters may be placed on the agenda of a System Board meeting by the Chairperson
or any Director. Committee reports shall be placed on the agenda of a System Board
meeting by the Committee Chair. Matters may be placed on the agenda of a committee
or subcommittee meeting by a Director who is a member of the committee or the
Chairperson, in his ex of?cio capacity.

(4) Matters may be placed on an agenda notlater than noon of the day previous to the day
on which that agenda is required to be distributed or at the discretion of the Chairperson.

(5) It shall be the duty of the Secretary or his or her designee to prepare, post, and
distribute all agendas for meetings of the System Board, and it shall be the duty of the
Secretary or his or her designee to prepare, post, and distribute agendas for committee
and subcommittee meetings. (*This section will be edited accordingly if the of?ce of
Secretary is eliminated.)

Decorum. The presiding of?cer shall preserve order and decorum, may speak to points of
order in preference to other Directors, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.
A DirectOr shall con?ne herself or himself to the matters before the System Board, avoid
personalities, and in general observe all parliamentary rules pertaining to orderly procedure and
decorum. -

10

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

Recognition for debate. A Directordesiring to obtain the ?oor shall address the presiding
of?cer. If tWo or more Directors shall properly request recognition, the presiding of?cer shall
recognize the one who ?rst spoke. A Director shall not proceed with remarks until recognized
and named by the presiding of?cer. The Chairperson and all Directors shall be given a full
opportunity to participate in the debate on all debatable questions, except when a Director has
called the previous question.

0). Debate. No Director shall speak more than twice or longer than a total of ten minutes on the
same question, without leave of the System Board. Responses by witnesses and staff to
questions of a Director shall not be counted against the speaking time allotted to such Director.
The proponent of the item under censideration, or a Committee Chairperson whose report is
under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close debate.

Voting and roll call

1) If any Director requests it, a roll call upon any question shall be taken and entered in
the minutes, but a roll call shall not be taken unless called for prior to, during or
immediately after any vote on the question.

(2) A roll call once ordered shall not be interrupted. When a roll call has commenced, all
debate on the question shall be deemed concluded. During the taking of the. roll call,
Directors shall respond to the calling of their names by answering "yea," "nay," or
"present."

(1) Division of questions. If any question presented contains several separable propositions, a
demand by any Director to "divide the question" shall be in order 

Appeal from a ruling of the presiding o?icer. Any Director entitled to vote may appeal to the
System Board, committee or subcommittee from a ruling of the presiding of?cer. The Director
making the appeal may brie?y state the reason for the appeal, and the presiding of?cer may
brie?y explain the ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other Director shall
participate in the discussion. The presiding of?cer shall then put the question, "Shall the
decision of the Chairperson [Committee Chairperson] be sustained?" If a majority of Directors
vote "nay," the decision of the presiding of?cer shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be
sustained. If sustained, the ruling of thepresiding of?cer shall be ?nal.

11

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

Personal privilege. The right of a Director to address the System Board, a committee or
subcommittee on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which the
Director?s integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned, or impugned.

(0) Special order of business. Any matter before the System Board, a committee, or
subcommittee referenced in an agenda provided to the Directors and the public in accordance
with these rules may be taken out of order by the presiding of?cer.

Order of precedence during debate. When a question is under debate, the following motions
shall be in order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:

(1) To adjourn to a day certain (amendable, debatable).
(2) To adjourn.
(3) To take a recess (debatable).
(4) To lay on the table.
(5) To call the'previous question.
(6) To refer (debatable).
(7) To amend (amendable, debatable).
(8) To defer to a time certain (debatable).
(9) To defer inde?nitely (amendable, debatable).

Motion to adjourn. A motion to adjourn is always in order except:

(1) When a Director has the ?oor.

(2) When the roll is being called or the Directors are voting.
(3) When the previous motion was a motion to adjourn.

(4) When the "previous question" has been ordered.

Motion to reconsider.

(1) A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same meeting, at a
special meeting called to reconsider the vote or question held prior to the next regular
meeting or at the next regular meeting.

(2) A motion for reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative,
shall not be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.

(3) A motion to reconsider must be made by a Director who voted on the prevailing side
of the question to be reconsidered.

12

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

(5) Amendment or suspension of rules.

(1) Any provision of these Rules may be temporarily suspended by a majority vote of the
Directors present and entitled to vote at a System Board meeting or meeting of a
committee or subcommittee, upon motion of any Director specifying the rule to be
suggested by the State?s Attomey?s Of?ce.)

(2) The provisions of these Rules may not be altered or amended in whole or in part
except by motion adopted by a majority vote of the Directors.

Rules for committee meetings. Unless otherwise speci?ed in these Rules, the rules of
procedure for all committee, subcommittee and special committee meetings shall be the same as
for System Board meetings.

Robert?s Rules of Order. The rules of parliamentary practice set forth in "Robert?s Rules of
Order" (Newly Revised, 10th Edition) by Henry M. Robert 111, et al., shall govern the System
Board in all cases in which they are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of these
Rules.

Recordings of meetings. The Secretary or his or her designee is responsible for audio
recording all meetings of the System Board. The audio recordings of publ' he
System Board shall be retained by the Secretary or his or her designee.
IncludmganyDIrecto as

section will be edited accordingly if the of?ce of Secretary is eliminated.)

 

 
   
 
   

Rule 6. Con?ict of Interest.

(1) While serving on. the System Board, Directors shall act in the best interest of the
all matters relating to the The provisions of the Cook County
Ethics Ordinance shall apply to the Directors. Each Director shall annually complete
a Disclosure of Interest Statement on a form adopted by the System Board which
form shall be ?led with the Secretary. (*This section will be edited accordingly if the
of?ce of Secretary is eliminated.) The Directors may adopt 'a Professional and
Ethical Protocol consistent with the Ethics Ordinance.

 

l3

Draft Rules Version 2
For System Board Consideration
On July 23, 2008

 



Rule 7. Of?cial Position Statements

Of?cial position statements of theSystem Board will be made only after concurrence of a
majority of the Directors and shall be issued only through the Chairperson or the Chairperson?s
designee. -

*State?s Attorney?s Of?ce Miscellaneous Notes:

The Open. Meetings Act provides that a verbatim record must be kept of all closed portions of
meetings in the form of an audio or video recording. In addition, the Of?ce of the Secretary,
which is currently preparing the minutes for all System Board meetings, prefers that all open
sessions also be audio recorded in order to prepare accurate minutes. Do you wish to'include a
provision in the System Board Rules stating that all Committee and Subcommittee meetings

shall be audio recorded?

14

 ATTACHMENT #5

RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
Of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE
Of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preamble i 1
Rule 1. Purpose 1
Rule 2. De?nitions 1
Rule 3. Interpretation, force and effect 1
Applicability 1
E?ective date - 2
Interpretation i i 2
Rule 4. Organizati0n 2
O?icers 2
(1) Chair 2
(2) Vice Chair 2
(3) Secretary 2
(4) Deputy Secretary 2 
Standing committees and subcommittees 2
(A) Finance 3
(B) Audit andCompliance 3
(C) Quality and Patient Safety 3
(D) Human Resources 4
(0) Membership and officers of standing committees and 4
Special committees and subcommittees 5
Public hearings 5
Discharge from a committee by the System Board 5

Rule 5. Parliamentary Rules 5

Meeting I i 5
Presiding o?icer . 6
Quorum 6
Majority votes . 7
(6) Absence ofquorum 7 I
Order of business 7
Prior notice topublic; agendas 7
Decorum 8
Recognition for debate 8
Debate 8
Voting and roll call 8
(1) Division of questions 8
Appeal from a ruling of the presiding officer 9
Personal privilege 9
(0) Special order of business 9
Order of precedence during debate 9
Motion to adjourn 9
Motion to reconsider 9
(3) Amendment or suspension of rules 9
Rules for committee meetings 10
Robert?s Rules of Order I .10
(V) Recordings of meetings 10
Rule 6. Con?ict of Interest 10

Rule 7. Of?cial Position 11

ii

Preamble

The Cook County Board of Commissioners established the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System by Ordinance. The is governed by a Board of Directors (?System
Board?) as set forth in the Ordinance. The Ordinance sets forth the mission of the and

the general powers and duties of the System Board. In order to provide for the orderly
implementation of the Ordinance, the System Board adopts these Rules.

Rule 1. Purpose.
The purpose of these Rules is to:

Provide appropriate procedures and organization for the System Board to conduct its
business in an orderly and ef?cient manner; and

Foster accountability in the 

Rule. 2. De?nitions.

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in theseRules, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

Chair means the Chair of the System Board.

Committee Chair means the chair of a standing or special committee or a subcommittee
thereof. 

Committee means a committee of the System Board and includes a standing committee, a
special committee and a standing or special subcommittee of a committee.

Director means a currently serving member of the System Board.
Secretary means the Secretary of the System'Board.

System Board means the eleven?member Board of Directors charged with governing the


Vice Chair means the Vice Chair of the System Board.
Rule 3. Interpretation, force and effect.

Applicability. The meetings and actions of the System Board, including all of its committees,
shall be governed by these Rules.

 Effective date. These Rules shall be in full force and effect upon adoption by the System
Board, and shall remain in full force and effect except as amended in accordance herewith, or

until superseded by new rules.

Interpretation. These Rules are to be construed in accordance with the customary American
usage and meaning of parliamentary terms and expressions and the plain meaning of the ordinary
words appearing herein. In case of ambiguous application, these Rules shall be applied in a
manner that fosters openness, accountability and fairness in the operation of the System Board.

Rule 4. Organization.

Offcers. The System Board, each year at its annual meeting, shall elect Directors to serve as
Chair, Vice? Chair, and Secretary. A Director may be elected to any of the of?cer positions for
successive terms.

(1) Chair.

The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the System Board, shall appoint from among the
System Board members all the members of all standing and special committees and their
subcommittees, and designate their Committee Chair, shall be an ex?of?cio member, with vote,
of all committees of the System Board. The Chair may, at the Chair?s discretion unless
otherwise instructed by the System Board, refer matters before the System Board to the proper
committee of said System Board for consideration and recommendation. The Chair or the
Chair?s designee shall be responsible for all correspondence of the System Board.

(2) Vice Chair.

The Vice-Chair shall perform the duties of the Chair in the Chair?s absence or in the event of the
Chair?s resignation, death, or disability pending selection of the Chair?s successor at either a
regular or special meeting of the System Board. 

(3) Secretary.

The Secretary shall keep suitable records of all proceedings of each meeting of the System Board
and its committees and subcommittees. After approval, such records shall be read and signed by
the Chair or the presiding of?cer, and attested by the Secretary. The System Board may have a
seal on which shall be engraved the name of the and said seal shall be kept by the
Secretary and used in authentication of all acts of the System Board.

(4) Deputy Secretary. .

The Deputy Secretary shall be appointed by the System Board, shall not be a Director and shall
carry out those duties and responsibilities assigned by the Secretary.

Standing committees and subcommittees.
(1) The number of members of each Standing Committee shall be determined by the Chair but 1n
no event shall a Standing Committee consist of less than three (3) Director members.

(2) The standing committees of the system Board shall be:

A. Finance. This Committee shall be familiar with and review the income and
expenditures of the advise the Chief Executive Of?cer, Chief Operating
Of?cer and Chief Financial Of?cer in preparation of the budget, review the
proposed budget in advance of presentation to the System Board, and make
recommendations to the system Board on all such ?nancial matters.
Additionally, this Committee will develop and present to the System Board, a
recommended multi-year ?nancing plan in support of the strategic plan
adopted by the System Board. This Committee shall be responsible for
developing, implementing and monitoring policies and procedures regarding
procurement and contracting for the including providing for appropriate
review of purchase contracts by this Committee. This Committee shall further
develop its responsibilities and determine a plan to implement those
responsibilities. This Committee shall consider other matters as may be assigned
by the System Board.

B. Audit and Compliance. This Committee shall receive and review the audit reports
prepared by internal departments and oversee the ?nancial reporting process on
behalf of the This Committee shall oversee the selection of independent
auditors for the in accordance with the enabling ordinance, review
accounting policies and ?nancial reporting and disclosure practices of the
and review the effectiveness of the internal ?nancial controls.
Additionally, the Committee will assist the System Board in ful?lling its
oversight responsibilities of the corporate compliance effort. This
Committee shall further develop its responsibilities and determine a plan to
implement those responsibilities. This Committee shall consider other matters as
may be assigned by the System Board.

C. Quality and Patient Safety. The President of each medical staff shall be
an ex-of?cio member of this Committee without a vote and shall not be
considered for determining a quorum. The Chief Medical Of?cer, Chief
Operating Of?cer, and Chief Nursing Of?cer of each Operating unit of the
shall be an ex-of?cio member of this Committee without a vote and shall
not be considered for determining a quorum. This Committee shalloversee the
quality, safety and performance improvement programs of the with the
goal of recognizing the critical importance of maintaining high quality service and
patient and staff safety and satisfaction. This Committee shall receive reports on
pertinent matters of quality, safety, satisfaction, regulatory and accreditation
activities at least quarterly from the Chief Executive Of?cer, and shall
report on such matters to the System Board. This Committee shall be responsible
for serving as a liaison between the hospital medical staffs and the
System Board. It shall also be responsible for overseeing the appointments and
reappointments to the hOSpital medical staffs. An additional purpose of this
Committee is the full and candid discussion of matters which affect the 

medical staffs and the System Board. This Committee shall further develop its
responsibilities and determine a plan to implement those responsibilities. This
Committee shall consider other matters as may be assigned by the System Board.

D. Human Resources: This Committee shall develop and monitor policies and
procedures for the related to personnel issues with regard to all
employees, including physicians and dentists, within the including, but
not limited to, position classi?cation, compensation, recruitment, selection, hiring,
discipline, termination, grievance, af?rmative action, performance management,
probationary periods, training, promotion and maintenance of records. This
Committee shall further develop its responsibilities and determine a plan to
implement those responsibilities.

(3) A standing committee may create a subcommittee. The motion creating a subcommittee
shall specify the subject matter of the subcommittee and the number of members to be appointed
thereto, and may specify a date upon which the subcommittee shall be abolished.

(4) Following each meeting of a standing committee, the Committee Chair shall submit a report
to the System Board for consideration at a meeting of the System Board. The System Board
shall either approve or receive and ?le a committee report. Approval of a committee?s report by
the System Board shall constitute approval of the actions and/or recommendations contained 1n
the report.

Membership and of?cers of standing committees and subcommittees.

(1) The members of each standing committee shall be appointed annually by the Chair. The
Chair may appoint non-Director members to a standing committee; The Committee Chair shall
appoint the members of a subcommittee and the Subcommittee Chair. The Committee Chair
may appoint non-Director members to a subcommittee. The non-Director member of a standing
committee or a subcommittee shall not have a vote and shall not be considered for a quorum, but
may serve as Committee or Subcommittee Chair.

(2) The Chair shall be an ex-of?cio member, with voting rights, of each standing committee to
which the Chair is not an appointed member.

(3) A vacancy on a standing committee 0r subcommittee, or in the position of Committee Chair
or Subcommittee Chair, shall be created when a Director resigns from such position or ceases to
be a Director. Re51gnat1ons shall be made in writing to the Secretary, who shall notify
the Chair and all Directors.

(4) Vacancies on standing committees or in the position of Committee Chair shall be ?lled by
appointment by the Chair. Vacancies on subcommittees or in the position of Subcommittee
Chair shall be ?lled by the Committee Chair of the committee which created the subcommittee.

(5) The Committee Chair or Subcommittee Chair shall have the authority to call and preside at
meetings of their respective committee or subcommittee.

(6) Any Director, even if not a member of a committee or subcommittee, shall be afforded the
courtesy of participating in debate on any item before a committee or subcommittee.

7) At the end of each ?scal year, each Committee Chair shall report a summary of all matters
pending in her orhis committee to the System Board.

Special committees and subcommittees. 

l) The System Board may create special committees. The Chair shall appoint the Committee
Chair and the members of a special committee. The Chair may appoint non-Director members to
a special committee or subcommittee. The non?Director member shall not have a vote and shall
not be considered for a quorum, but may serve as Committee Chair.

(2) The Chair shall be an ex?officio member, with voting rights, of each special committee.
(3) A special committee may create a special subcommittee.

(4) The motion creating a special committee or special subcommittee shall specify the subject
matter of the special committee or special subcommittee and the number of members to be
appointed thereto, and may specify a reporting date in which event the special committee or
special subcommittee shall be abolished as of such date. Unless an earlier date is speci?ed by the
motion, special committees and special subcommittees shall expire one (1) year after their
creation.

Public hearings. The System Board may hold public hearings as it deems appropriate to the
performance of any of its responsibilities. Such public hearings may be held provided that the
following requirements are satis?ed:

(1) a notice containing the time, place, subject matter of the hearing, and solicitation of pertinent
public-testimony shall be placed on the website and provided to the County for posting .

on its website.
(2) any other applicable meeting noti?cation'requirements found elsewhere in these Rules or

law.

Discharge from a committee by the System Board. The System Board may discharge any
matter from a committee.

Rule 5. Parliamentary rules.
Meetings.
The System Board shall hold regular meetings pursuant to an annual calendar set by the

System Board prior to December 1St of each year. Such calendar shall include the date,
time, and location of each regular meeting. The last regular meeting of System Board

shall be held in November and shall be the Annual Meeting. Election of System Board
of?cers for the next year shall take place at the Annual Meeting.

It shall be the duty of the Chair to call special meetings of the System Board whenever
the Chair determines such meetings are necessary. In addition to any notice required by
the Open Meetings Act or other applicable law, the Chair must give no less than two
business days advance written notice of such special meetings to the Directors.

Special meetings shall also be held whenever requested by at least one-third of the
Directors. In addition to any notice required by the Open Meetings Act or other
applicable law, the Secretary or his or her designee must give no less than two business
days advance written notice of such special meetings to the remaining Directors.

A special meeting may be called in the event that the Chair or one-third of the System
Board states that an emergency exists. The Secretary or his or her designee must give no
less than twenty-four (24) hours advance written notice to the Directors and to the public,
unless such notice is not reasonable under the circumstances. In such case notice shall be
given as soon as practicable.

. (5) All notices of special meetings must include-an agenda for such meeting.

(6) A quorum of Directors must be physically present at the location of a meeting of the System
Board, its committees or subcommittees.

If a quorum of the Directors is physically present at a meeting of the System Board or
one of its committees or subcommittees, a majority of the Directors present and entitled
to vote may allow a Director to attend the meeting by other means if the Director is
prevented from physically attending because of: personal illness or disability; (ii)
employment purposes or the business of the public body; or a family or other
emergency. ?Other means? is by video or audio conference.

If a DirectOr wishes to attend a meeting by other means, the Director must notify the
Secretary before the meeting unless advance notice is impractical.

Presiding officer. The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the System Board and shall
generally perform the duties customarily performed by a presiding of?cer. In the absence of the
Chair, or during the temporary inability of the Chair to act, the Vice-Chair shall preside at
meetings of the System Board. If both the Chair and the Vice Chair are unable to preside at the
meeting, the System Board shall appoint a Director to preside at that meeting. In the absence of
a Committee Chair, or during the temporary inability of the Committee Chair to act, the
Directors of that Committee shall appoint a Director who is a member of that committee to
preside at that meeting.

Quorum. A majority of the Directors shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of the System
Board. A majority of Directors appointed to any committee or subcommittee shall constitute a
quorum for a meeting of such committee or subcommittee.

 Majority votes. Actions of the System Board shall require the af?rmative vote of a majority
of the Directors present and voting at the meeting at which action is taken. Actions of a
committee or subcommittee of the System Board shall require the af?rmative vote of a majority
of the Directors present and entitled to vote at the meeting at which action is taken. A vote of
"present? shall not be counted in determining the number of Directors voting on a question.

Absence of quorum. Should a quorum not be present at any meeting of the System Board or at
any committee or subcommittee meeting, the meeting shall not thereby stand adjourned, but the
Directors present shall be competent to adjourn, receive information or public testimony but take
no formal action, or recess the meeting to a speci?ed date and time by a majority vote of those
Directors present/and entitled to vote.

Order of business.

(1) At each regular meeting of the System Board, the order of business (unless otherwise directed
by the System Board) is as follows:

(A) Call to Order and Roll Call.

(B) Approval and correction of minutes of previous meetings.
(C) Report of the Chief Executive Of?cer

(D) Committee reports.

(E) Old business.

(F) New business.

(G) Adjournment.

(2) The System Board may grant members of the public leave to speak for up to three (3)
minutes on items pending before the System Board. 

(3) All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the presiding of?cer,
without debate, subject to appeal.

Prior notice to public; agendas.

(1) No less than two full business days before any meeting of the System Board or of a
committee or subcommittee, notice and an agenda for such meeting shall be provided to the
Chair, all Directors and all'news media that have requested notice of meetings and shall be
posted at the principal of?ce of the System Board and at the location where the meeting is to be
held. In addition, notices and agendas of all meetings shall be posted on the website, if
available, and provided to the County for posting on its website.

(2) The agenda shall brie?y describe all matters that will be considered at the meeting. Material
pertinent to a matter on a System Board agenda shall be supplied, along with the agenda, to the 
Chair and to each of the Directors, and all material pertinent to any matter on a committee or
subcommittee agenda shall be supplied, along with the agenda, to each member of the committee

or subcommittee. With the exception of materials that are con?dential as provided by law, such
material shall also be available to the public upon request.

(3) Matters may be placed on the agenda of a System Board meeting by the Chair or any
Director. Committee reports shall be placed on the agenda of a System Board meeting by the
Committee Chair. Matters may be placed on the agenda of a committee or subcommittee
meeting by a Director who is a member of the committee or the Chair, in his ex of?cio capacity.

(4) Matters may be placed on an agenda not later than noon of the day previous to the day on
which that agenda is required to be distributed or at the discretion of the Chair.

It shall be the duty of the Secretary or his or her designee to prepare, post, and distribute
all agendas for meetings of the System Board, and for committee and subcommittee
meetings. 

Decorum. The presiding of?cer shall preserve order and decorum, may speak to points of
order in preference to other Directors, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to appeal.
A Director shall con?ne herself or himself to the matters before the System Board, avoid
personalities, and in general observe all parliamentary rules pertaining to orderly procedure and
decorum.

Recognition for debate. A Director desiring to obtain the ?oor shall address the presiding
of?cer. If two or more Directors shall properly request recognition, the presiding of?cer shall
recognize the one who ?rst spoke. A Director'shall not proceed with remarks until recognized
and named by the presiding of?cer. The Chair and all Directors shall be given a full opportunity
to participate in the debate on all debatable questions, except when a Director has called the
previous question. 

Debate. No Director shall speak more than twice or longer than a total of ten minutes on the
same question, without leave of the System Board. Responses by witnesses and staff to
questions of a Director shall not be counted against the speaking time allotted to such Director.
The proponent of the item under consideration, or a Committee Chair whose report is under
consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close debate.

Voting and roll call

(1) If any Director requests it, a roll call upon any question shall be taken and entered in the
minutes, but a roll call shall not be taken unless called for prior to, during or immediately after
any vote on the question.

(2) A roll call once ordered shall not be interrupted. When a roll call has commenced, all debate
on the question shall be deemed concluded. During the taking of the roll call, Directors shall
respond to the calling of their names by answering "yea," "nay," or "present."

(1) Division of questions. If any question presented contains several separable propositions, a
demand by any Director to "divide the question" shall be in order.

 Order of precedence during debate. When a question is under debate, the following motions
shall be in order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:

Appeal from a ruling of the presiding of?cer. Any Director entitled to vote may appeal to the
System Board, committee or subcommittee from a ruling of the presiding of?cer. The Director
making the appeal may brie?y state the reason for the appeal, and the presiding of?cer may
brie?y explain the ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other Director shall
participate in the discussion. The presiding of?cer shall then put the question, "Shall the
decision of the Chair [Committee Chair] be sustained?" If a majority of Directors vote "nay," the
decision of the presiding of?cer shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained. If sustained,
the ruling of the presiding of?cer shall be ?nal.

(0) Personal privilege. The right of a Director to address the System Board, a committee or
subcommittee on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which the
Director?s integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned, or impugned.

Special order of business. Any matter before the System Board, a committee, or
subcommittee referenced in an agenda provided to the Directors and the public in accordance
with these rules may be taken out of order by the presiding of?cer.

Order of precedence during debate. When a question is under debate, the following motions
shall be in order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listedday certain (amendable, debatable).
(2) To adjourn. 

(3) To take a recess (debatable).

(4) To lay on the table.

(5) To call the previous question.

(6) To refer (debatable).

(7) To amend 

(8) To defer to a time certain (debatable).

(9) To defer inde?nitely (amendable, debatable).

Motion to aaj?ourn. A motion to adjourn is always in order except:

(1) When a Director has the ?oor.

(2) When the roll is being called or the Directors are voting.
(3) When the previous motion was a motion to adjourn.

(4) When the "previous question" has been ordered.

(5) Motion to reconsider.

A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same meeting, at a special
meeting called to reconsider the vote or question held prior to the next regular meeting or
at the next regular meeting.

 

(2) A motion for reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.

A motion to reconsider must be made by a Director who voted on the prevailing side of the
question to be reconsidered.

Amendment or suspension of rules.

(1) Any provision of these Rules may be temporarily suspended by a majority vote of the
Directors present and entitled to vote at a System Board meeting or meeting of a committee or
subcommittee, upon motion of any Director specifying the rule to be suspended.

The provisions of these Rules may not be altered or amended in whole or in part except by
motion adopted by a majority vote of the Directors.

Rules for committee meetings. Unless otherwise speci?ed in these Rules, the rules of
procedure for all committee, subcommittee and special committee meetings shall be the same as
for System Board meetings.

Robert's Rules of Order. The rules of parliamentary practice set forth in "Robert's Rules of
Order" (Newly Revised, 10th Edition) by Henry M. Robert 111, et (11., shall govern the System
Board in all cases in which they are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of these
Rules.

Recordings of meetings. The Secretary or his or her designee is responsible for audio
recording all meetings of the System Board. The audio recordings of public meetings of the
System Board shall be retained by the Secretary or his or her designee. Audio recordings of
meetings other than closed sessions shall be available for review upon written request to the
Secretary or his or her designee. Audio recordings of closed sessions shall be retained by the
Secretary or his or her designee in a secure fashion and shall not be available to any person
except as required by law.

Rule 6. Con?ict of Interest.

While serving on the System board, Directors shall act in the best interest of the 
in all matters relating to the The provisions of the CookCounty Ethics
Ordinance shall apply to the Directors. Each Director shall annually complete a
Disclosure of Interest Statement on a form adopted by the System board which form shall'
be ?led with the Secretary. The Directors may adopt a Professional and Ethical Protocol
consistent with the Ethics ordinance. 

Any Director or non-Director member of a committee or subcommittee who has a

con?ict of interest in a matter involving the System shall declare the con?ict to the
System Board, or a committee or subcommittee, in open session, shall disclose the basis

'10

for the con?ict and shall refrain from participating in the consideration of the matter,
except as the Director may be called upon for information.

Rule 7. Of?cial Position Statements

Of?cial position statements of the System Board will be made only after concurrence of a
majority of the Directors and shall be issued only through the Chair or the Chair?s designee.

ll

 

ATTACHMENT #6 

Testimony Prepared for the
Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Concerning Major Changes in Cook County Department of Public Health
Services Due to Transitioning Out of Direct Provision of Family Case
Management

July 23, 2008

Prepared by Sherry E. Weingart, M.P.H.

Good morning, Directors and other distinguished attendees. While my remarks
today concern the Cook County Department of Public Health?s decision to
reduce direct Family Case Management (FCM) services, I am not addressing the
advisability of that decision. Instead, I wish to concentrate on the implications of
the process, going forward, for the Department and the people in its jurisdiction. I
am testifying not as a formal representative of any of the public health associations
and organizations to which I belong. Rather, I am here to offer the views of one
public health practitioner, analyst and advocate of how and this esteemed
body may be able to anticipate and prevent some serious negative consequences,

and even produce lemonade.

A few quick points:

1) There is precedent for local health departments transitioning out of selected
direct service provision in a way that strengthens the local health authority?s
ability to assure lasting quality and improved population-based health
outcomes. The present trajectory set in motion by and IDHS augurs
ill for this transition?s success. What is on track to happen is that after
ends its involvement, the State will establish direct contracts with
contractors, and the Department will be powerless to monitor and influence
local implementation, not the least of which cause will be that they will no

longer receive program and client data.

2) How you frame the leadership challenge. here is crucial to outcomes.
This appears to have been framed as ?We tried to secure ongoing support,
but we can no longer afford this. Other entities can pick this up. Our

management challenge in this immediate crisis is:

a. provide for good clinical clients
b. minimize labor objectionr'by reassignment I
c. c?ontinde some intensive service to approximately 20% 'of the highest
risk communities 

d. re?define our ?core business? as concentrating on the services we?re
paid for and those which cannot be done in the private sector

e. close ranks'andrtake the heat because no. one outside the County
apparatus can understand the details of the dilemmas we face.?

There is another way. It?s cheaper than running the program, but is not free.
The leadership, versus management, challenge should be framed as: ?Let?s
use this "opportunity to strengthen our position as the publich?ealth authority
and to assure the best possible birth outComes in the present and futUrle, by': 
a. increasing oUr systemic capacity for oversight, including addressing
longstanding informatics issues with respect to service and patientslevel
- outcome data, and with respect to ?real-time usable populration?based
data to guide program ad'jUstments 
b. providing dedicated epidemiologic surveillance Specific'to-maternaland
child health (MCH)
c. establishing contract terms with IDHS, so that their subcontractors are
sUbject to ouriquality review and oUtcome monitoring-and linkage
d. assigning a small team Of h?igh'ly'Skilled Public-Health Nurses to 
?offe'r?a'nticipatory guidanc?e' tothe new service providers. 
e. tranSitiohing leadership and decision-making style from a preference for
opacity to a dedication to transparency: regarding employee?s, potential
serviCe partners and~the COmmunity as assets Who mustc'ontribute to

cpll'aborative leadership-J" 

3) cannot wait to conduct an elaborated Strategic planning process with
long horizons to set in place the structural relationships and contractual
terms which will allow it to influence the outCon'ie' of the transition. It muSt

demand, 'and fund, the leadership role it must-play. 

Distributed: Supplementary materials from NACCHO, MCHB, oral testimony byv'S. Weingart, MPH

773.588-8577, sweingart@ameritech.net
2

 ?to "ll-l 
l; 3' flier-liven?? ?Mix ll?ri/?ll\ (g
is, {3 we {lie Wk tale/were) semiarid .rlg?wl.

MCHB uses the construct of a
pyramid to describe the four levels of
core public health services for the
MCH population. Starting at the
base, these are (1) infrastructure-

    
     

(Gap 

Examples:
?Iasrc Health Services, and
Health Services tor 

building services, (2) population-
based services, (3) enabling services,
and (4) direct health care (gap-?lling)
services. Infrastructure-building and
population-based services provide the

 
 
   
 
    
 
    
  
    
   
 

ENABLING SERVICES:

 
 

Examples:
Transportation, Trw'elatim, omreech,
Respite Care, Health Education, Faulty
Support Services, Purchase of Health
Insurance, Case Management, Coordination
with Medicaid. WIC, and Education

  

broad foundation upon which
enabling and direct care services rest
(Figure The MCH health

 

 

services pyramid provides a useful 
framework for understanding Examples: . . 
programmatic directions and resource 

- Oral Health, lniury Prevention. Nutrition.
allocation by the Bureau and Its and Education
partners as they collaborate to carry
out the MCHB mission and mmsmucrunE ounomo sauces:
accomplish the MCHB goals. Examples

Needs Assessment, Evaluation, Planning, Policy Development

MCH leaders work at all four levels Coordination, Qualiwnssurance, Standards Development, Monitoring.

Training. Applied Research, Systems of Care, and information Systems
Figure A-l. Core Public Health Services Delivered by MCH Agencies

of the pyramid. Leaders emerge within

each of these four levels and can move between levels as their careers progress.

MCH Leadership Competencies Version 2.0 
mum .MCH Tam wt,- orlln?'i? t-i?E iv? 5 rw 3031')

MW lea?et inf/l wile; plwf? guilt-ms

 

 

NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF
COUNTY CITY
HEALTH OFFICIALS

 

 

 

Operational DefinitiOn ofa
functional local health department

Governmental public health departments are responsible for creating and maintaining conditions that keep
peopie healthy. At the local level, the-governmental public health presence, or ?local health department,"
can take many forms.1 Furthermore, each community has a unique ?public health system? comprising
individuals and public and private entities that are engaged in activities that affect the public?s health.
Regardless of its governance or structure, regardless of where speci?c authorities are vested or where
particular services are delivered, everyone, no matter where they live, should reasonably expect the local
health department to meet certain standards. 2

A FUNCTIONAL LOCAL HEALTH 

. Understands the speci?c health issues confronting the community, and how physical, behavioral,
environmental, social and economic conditions affect them.

. Investigates health problems and health threats.

. Prevents, minimizes, and contains adverse health effects from communicable diseases. disease
outbreaks from unsafe food and water, chronic diseases, environmental hazards, injuries, and risky
health behaviors.

Leads planning and response activities for public health emergencies.
Collaborates with other local responders and with state and federal agencies to intervene in other
emergencies with public health signi?cance natural disasters).

0 Implements health promotion programs.

. Engages the community to address public health issues.

. Develops partnerships with public and private healthcare providers and institutions, community-
based organizations, and other government agencies housing authority, criminal justice,
education) engaged in services that affect health to collectively identify, alleviate, and act on the
sources of public health problems.

. Coordinates the public health system?s efforts In an intentional, non competitive, and non-
duplicative manner.

. Addresses health disparities.

. Serves as an essential resource for local governing bodies and policymakers on up~to~date
public health laws and policies. 

. Provides science-based, timely, and culturally competent health information and health alerts to
the media and to the community.

Provides its expertise to others who treat or address issues of public health signi?cance.
Ensures compliance with public health laws 'and ordinances, using enforcement authority when
appropriate.

Employs well-trained staff members who have the necessary resources to implement best

practices and evidence-based programs and interventions.

Facilitates research efforts, when approached by researchers, that bene?t the community.

Uses and contributes to the evidence base of public health.

Strategically plans its services and activities, evaluates performance and outcomes, and makes
adjustments as needed to continually Improve its effectiveness, enhance the community?s health
status, and meet the community?s expectations. .

NOTES

1 For the purposes of this de?nition, a local health department may be locally governed, part of a region or district be an
of?ce or an administrative unit of the state health department. or a hybrid of these. .

2 See ?Local Health Department Standards." Pages 4 through 9, for further description of the functions captured in this
de?nition. 7 

 

Operational De?nition of a Functional Local Health Department November 2005

All local health departments as governmental entities, derive their authority and responsibility from 
the state and local laws that govern them. Accordingly, all LHDs exist for the common good and are
responsible for demonstrating strong leadership in the promotion of physical, behavioral, environmental,
social, and economic conditions that improve health and well?being; prevent illness, disease, injury, and
premature death; and eliminate health disparities.2 However, in the absence of speci?c, consistent standards
regarding how LHDs ful?ll this responsibility, the degree to which the public?s health ?is protected and
improved varies widely from community to community.

These standards describe the responsibilities that every person, regardless of where they live, should
reasonably expect their LHD to ful?ll. They have been developed within nationally recognized frameworks
and with input from public health professionals and elected officials4 from across the country. The standards
provide a framework by which LHDs are accountable to the state health department, the public they serve,
and the governing bodies local boards of health, county commissioners, and mayors) to which they
report. In meeting the standards, LHDs employ strategies that are evidence-based and informed by best
practices, and they operate according to the highest level of professionalism and ethics to inspire public

con?dence and trust

A number of factors contribute to the variability of how LHDs operate; speci?cally capacity, authority,
resources, and composition of the local public health system:

The LHD may have the capacity to perform all of the functions on its own; it may call upon the state
to provide aSsistance for some functions; it may develop arrangements with other organizations in
the community or with neighboring LHDs to perform some functions; or it may control the means by
which other entities perform some functions. 

0 Government agencies other than the LHD may have the authority to perform services that affect
public health.

Resources for public health may be housed in a different agency.
Each LHD jurisdiction Is served by its own unique public health system: public and private health
care providers, businesses, community organizations, academic institutions, and media outlets that

all contribute to the public's health.

As a result of these differences, how LHDs meet the standards-whether they directly provide a service,
broker particular capacities, or othenIvise ensure that the necessary work is being done?will vary. 
Regardless of its speci?c capacity, authority, and resources, and regardless of the particular local public
health system, the LHD has a consistent responsibility to intentionally coordinate all public health activities
and lead efforts to meet the standards.

The standards are a guide to the fundamental responsibilities of LHDs, allowing for varied structural
characteristics of LHDs governance, staf?ng, patterns, size of the population sewed, etc), and
recognizing that each LHD may have other duties unique to meeting the public health needs of the
community it serves. Several states have developed, or are in the process of developing, 
standards for LHDs, and the National Public Health Performance Standards Program includes
standards for local public health systems. NACCHO analyses of several state initiatives and the 
have shown a high level of consistency between these efforts and nationally developed

standards.

Currently, not all LHDs have the capacity tomeet the standards. Many concerns have been raised regarding
the costs of developing the capacity, and the implications for LHDs that do not meet the standards. it is
dif?cult to anticipate costs, and it is equally important to understand that improvements in capacity can be
made In the absence of new resources. NACCHO Is committed to collecting and sharing models of LHDs
and LHD arrangements to demonstrate various means to enhance local governmental public health 
capacity. Furthermore, Is currently participating In a national dialogue on whether to establish a
voluntary-national accreditation system for state and local health departmental; and is supportive of such an
efforts The results of this dialogue may generate implications for LHDs not meeting the standards.

NACCHO urges LHDs to embrace these standards both as a means of working with their state health
departments, communities, and governing bodies to develop a more robust governmental public health
capacity, and as a means of holding themselves uniformly accountable to the public they serve.

 

Operational De?nition ofa Functional Local Health Department - November 2005

1 . Monitor health status and understand health issues facing the community.

a.

Obtain and maintain data that provide information on the community's health provider
immunization rates; hospital discharge data; environmental health hazard, risk, and exposure
data; Community-speci?c data; number of uninsured; and indicators of health disparities such
as high levels of poverty. lack of affordable housing, limited or no access to transportation
etc)

Develop relationships with local providers and others in the community who have information
on reportable diseases and other conditions of public health interest and facilitate information
exchange.

Conduct or contribute expertise to periodic community health assessments.

integrate data with health assessment and data collection efforts conducted by others in the
public health system.

Analyze data to identify trends, health problems, environmental health hazards and social and
economic conditions that adversely affect the public? 5 health.

2., Protect people from'health problems and health hazards.

a.
b.

investigate health problems and environmental health hazards.

Prevent, minimize, and contain adverse health events and conditions. resulting from
communicable diseases; food~, water-, and vector-borne outbreaks; chronic diseases;
environmental hazards; injuries; and health disparities.

Coordinate with other governmental agencies that investigate and respond to health problems,
health disparities, or environmental health hazards.

Lead public health emergency planning, exercises, and response activities in the community in
accordance with the National incident Management System, and coordinate with other local,
state, and federal agencies

Fully participate in planning, exercises, and response activities for other emergencies in the
community that have public health implications, within the context of state and regional plans
and' In a manner consistent with the community?s best public health interest.

Maintain access to laboratory and biostatisticai expertise and capacity to help monitor
community health status and diagnose and investigate public health problems and hazards.
Maintain policies and technology required for urgent communications and electronic data
exchange. 

3. Give people information they need to make healthy choices.

a.

p.

C.

d.

Develop relationships with the media to convey informatibn of public health signi?cance,
correct misinformation about public health issues, and serve as an essential resource.
Exchange information and data with individuals community groups, other agencies, and the
general public about physical behavioral, environmental, social, economic, and other issues
affecting the pubiic? 5 health.

Provide targeted, culturally appropriate information to help individuals understand what
decisions they can make to be healthy.

Provide health promotion programs to address identi?ed health problems.

4. Engage the community to identify and solve health problems

a.

Engage the local public health system in an ongoing, strategic, community-driven,
comprehensive planning process to identify, prioritize, and solve public health problems;
establiSh public health goals; and evaluate success in meeting the goals. 

Promote the community?s understanding of, and advocacy for, policies and activities that will
the pubiic? 5 health.

Support, implement, and evaluate strategies that address public health goals In partnership
with public and private organizations

Develop partnerships to generate interest' In and support for improved community health
status, including new and emerging public health Issues.

Inform the community, governing bodies and elected of?cials about governmental public
health services that are being provided, improvements being made in those services, and
priority health issues not yet being adequately addressed.

Operational De?nition of a Functional Local Health Department- November 2005

5 . Develop public health policies and plans.

a.

b.

Serve as a primary resource to governing bodies and policymakers to establish and maintain
public health policies, practices, and capacity based on current science and best practices.
Advocate for policies that lessen health disparities and improve physical, behavioral,
environmental, social, and economic conditions in the community that affect the public's
health.

Engage in LHD strategic planning to develop a vision, mission, and guiding principles that
re?ect the community's public health needs, and to prioritize services and programs.

6 . Enforce public health laws and regulations.

a.



Review existing laws and regulations and work with governing bodies and policymakers to
update them as needed.

Understand existing laws, ordinances, and regulations that protect the public?s health.
Educate individuals and organizations on the meaning, purpose, and bene?t of public health .
laws, regulations, and ordinances and how to comply.

Monitor, and analyze over time, the compliance of regulated organizations, entities, and
individuals.

Conduct enforcement activities.

Coordinate notificatidn of violations among other governmental agencies that enforce laws and 
regulations that protect the public health.

7. Help people receive health services.

a,

C.

Engage the community to identify gaps in culturally competent, appropn?ate, and equitable
personal health services, including preventive and health promotion services, and develop
strategies to close the gaps.

Support and implement strategiesto increase access to care and establish systems of
personal health services, including preventive and health promotion services, in partnership

with the community. .
Link individuals to available, accessible personal healthcare providers a medIcal home).

8 . Maintain a competent public health workforce.

a.
b.

c.
d.

e.

Recruit, train, develop, and retain a diverse staff.

Evaluate LHD staff members' public health competencies, wand address de?ciencies through

Continuing education, training, and leadership development activities.

Provide practice- and competency based educational experiences for the future public health
workforce and provide expertise in developing and teaching public health curricula, through
partnerships with academia.

Promote the use of effective public health practiCes among other practitioners and agencies
engaged in public health interventions. 

Provide the public health workforce with adequate resources to do their jobs

9 . Evaluate and Improve programs and interventions

a.
b.
c.

d.

Develop evaluation efforts to assess health outcomes to the extent possible.

Apply evidenCe-based criteria to evaluation activities where possible.

Evaluate the effectiveness and quality of all LHD programs and activities and use the
information to improve LHD performance and community health outcomes.

Review the effectiveness of public health interventions provided by other practitioners and
agencies for prevention, containment, and/or remediation of problems affecting the public' 5
health, and provide expertise to those interventions that need improvement.

Operational De?nition of a Functional Local Health Department - November 2005

1 0. Contribute to and apply the evidence base of public health.

a. When researchers approach the LHD to engage in research activities that bene?t the health of
the community, 
i. identify appropriate populations geographic areas and partners;
ii. Work with them to actively involve the community in all phases of research;
Provide data and expertise to support research; and,
iv. Facilitate their efforts to share research ?ndings with the Community, governing bodies and

policymakers

b. Share results of research program evaluations and best practices with other public health
practitioners and academics.

c. Apply evidence~based programs and best practices where possible.

NOTES

1 For the purposes of these standards, an LHD is de?ned as the governmental public health presence at the
local level. lt may be a locally governed health department, a branch of the state health department, a state-
created district or region, a department governed by and sewing a multi-county area, or any other
arrangement that has governmental authority and is responsible for public health functions at the local level.
2 For the purposes of this document, ?health disparities" refer to differences in populations? health status that
are avoidable and can be changed. These differences can result from social and/or economic conditions, as
well as public policy. Examples include situations whereby hazardous waste sites are located in poor
communities there Is a lack of affordable housing, and there? Is limited or no access to transportation. These
and other factors adversely affect population health.

3 The standards are framed around the Ten Essential Public Health Services which have been reworded to
more accurately re?ect the speci?c LHD roles and responsibilities related to each category. In addition
these standards are consistent with the National Public Health Performance Standards Program 
serving to specify the role of governmental LHDs while the addresses the public health system as
a whole.

4This includes those from local health departments, local boards of health, state health departments, and
federal public health agencies; as well as county commissioners, mayors, state legislators, and -
gubernatorial health advisors.

5 

6 NACCHO Resolution 04-06 further describes stance on accreditation.

7 As de?ned by the Core Public Health Competencies developed by the Council on Linkages between
Academia and Public Health Practice.

 

Public health professionals and the communities they serve deserve a common set of expectations about
local health departments (LHDs). More than 600 governmental public health professionals and local and
state of?cials representing 30 different states contributed to this de?nition, which will be a living document.

By describing the functions of LHDs, the de?nition will help citizens and residents understand what they can
reasonably expect from governmental public health in their communities. The de?nition also will be useful to
elected of?cials, who need to understand what LHDs do and how to hold them accountable. And, the
de?nition will aid LHDs in obtaining their fair share of resources

WHAT ARE NEXT 

?rst step is education and communication about the de?nition with LHDs, local boards of health,
state health departments, federal public health agenices, and local and state elected of?cials. Metrics will be
developed to allow LHDs to measure their progress in achieving the standards. NACCHO will also gather
examples of how LHDs use the de?nition. The Exploring Accreditation project will examine the use of the
standards as the basis for a voluntary national accreditation system for LHDs of all sizes and structures.

Operational De?nition of a Functional Local Health Department - November 2005

WHAT ACTION STEPS CAN YOU 

LHDs can use the de?nition and standards to assess local efforts, measure performance, expand functions,
enhance activities, and communicate about the role of local public health to their governing bodies, elected

of?cials, and community.

NACCHO has developed a set of three fact sheets describing the role of local?public health and a
communications toolkit as part of this project. Both the toolkit and the fact sheets are available on
NACCHO's Web site (see the following column). We encourage LHDs to download the fact sheets and

communications toolkit.

Finally, your experiences with'the de?nition will inform and help shape the implementation phase of this
effort. Please submit examples of how LHDs have met the de?nition (particularly those involving the
development of shared capacity andlor resources), applied the toolsin the communications toolkit, or
otherwise used the de?nition or related materials. You can ?nd additional materials and submit examples
online at: .

For more infOrmation about this project, please contact NACCHO at (202) 783-5550 and ask to speak With 
the Operational De?nition program manager, or e?mail 

Funding for this project was provided by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the Centers for Disease}
Control and Prevention (under cooperative agreement U5OICCU302718). The contents of this document are solely
the responsibility of the authors and do not necessarily represent the of?cial views of the sponsors.

NA CCHO thanks the following organizations for their contributions to the development of the operational
de?nition: the Association of State and Territorial Health Of?cials, the Association of State and Territorial
Local Health Liaison Oh?icials, the Centers, for Disease Control and Prevention, the Health Resources and
Services Administration, the National Association of Counties, the National Association of Local Boards of
Health, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the National Governors Association, the National
League of Cities, and the U. 8. Conference of Mayors. 

 

Contact lnfonnation:

NACCHO

National Association of
County and City

Health Of?cials

1100 17th Street, NW
Second Floor' 
Washington, DC 20036
(202)783-5550 Phone
(202) 783?1583 Fax



Operational Definition of a Functional Local Health Department - November 2005



Nuiinnat Aritwiatian Intriguing; 3% City Hearth ?i?cials

 

 

 

No. 04-11
STATEMENT OF POLICY

LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT EPIDEMIOLOGY AND SURVEILLANCE
CAPACITIES

Policy

The National Association of County and City Health Of?cials (N ACCHO) supports the
development of local health department (LHD) epidemiology and surveillance capacities to
promote evidence-based public health practice. Epidemiology and surveillance capacities
include having, or having access to, suf?cient personnel and systems to: 1) recognize 
and respond effectively to disease outbreaks and other public health issues; 2) monitor and
analyze the incidence and prevalence of diseases of public health signi?cance; 3) provide LHDs,
and others with a need to know, with accurate and timely data to ensure suf?cient resource
allocation to areas of greatest need; and 4) evaluate the effectiveness of interventions.

NACCHO strongly supports the development of integrated surveillance systems and data
collection mechanisms that allow for analysis and dissemination of accurate local data, including
but not limited to census tract, zip code, county, city, and region. In addition, NACCHO urges
that local? and state?reported data in such systems be equally accessible to local, state, and
federal jurisdictions. Data ?les should reside in electronic form at the LHD Whenever local
capacity permits and be designed to permit analysis of data elements by local staff to address

local circumstances.

Justification

Because state and national data often do not identify potential health needs or trends of localities,
each LHD must have the capacity to collect and analyze local data to monitor and improve the
health of its community.

Epidemiology and surveillance capacities are essential to assuring the three core functions of
public health at the local level: assessment, policy development, and assurance. The strategic
assignment of epidemiology professionals to provide technical assistance and support to LHDs
and the provision of epidemiologic training to LHD staff will enable the setting of appropriate
population-based health metrics, ongoing improvement of public health response protocols and
interventions, and improvement of community health outcomes. I

Finally, national and state datasets often do not have speci?c local data, which limits their
usefulness to LI-IDs. Data that can be disaggregated by census tract, zip code, county, city, and/or

region are integral to developing and implementing data?driven public health programs,
interventions, and priorities.1

Record of Action
Adopted by NACCHO Board of Directors, November 7, 2004
Revison adopted by NACCHO Board of Directors, July 11, 2007

 

1 Luck 1., Chang C, Brown EC and John Lumpkin J. Using local health information to promote public health:
issues, barriers, and proposed solutions to improve information ?ow. Health Affairs. 

 

Public Health

Prevent. Promote. Protect.

The Role of Local Health Departments

This fact sheet brie?y describes what every person, regardless of where they live, can reasonably
expect from their local health department (LHD). LHDs protect and improve community well-being by
preventing disease, illness and injury and impacting social, economic and environmental factors
fundamental to excellent health. The LHD is the foundation of the local public health system that
comprises public? and private-sector health care providers, academia, business, the media, and other
local and state governmental entities. Adapting to local circumstances, LHDs vary in the strategies and
tactics used to protect and improve community well-being.

Track and investigate health problems and hazards in the community. LHDs gather and
analyze data on the community?s health to determine risks and problems. This information
drives speci?c programs and activities designed to control multiple threats: both communicable
and chronic diseases; food, water, insect and other ?vector?borne? outbreaks; biological,
chemical and radiological hazards; and public health disasters.

Prepare for and respond to public health emergencies. As a result of extensive and ongoing
preparation, LHDs respond quickly and effectively to disease outbreaks and other public health
events?they are intensively trained to respond to increases in the incidence of diseases,
natural disasters, and acts of terrorism. They coordinate delivery of drugs, supplies, and
provisions to victims and populations at risk. They keep the public informed and serve as the
network hub for community hospitals, physicians, and other health care providers;

Develop, apply and enforce policies, laws and regulations that improve health and
ensure safety. Acting on their knowledge about their community, LHDs create data-driven
policies to meet health needs and address emerging issues. They help craft sound health
policies by providing expertise to local, state and federal decision makers. LHDs also inform
individuals and organizations about public health laws while monitoring and enforcing 
compliance.

Lead efforts to mobilize communities around important health issues. With local and state
government agencies, businesses, schools, and the media, LHDs spearhead locally organized
health promotion and disease prevention campaigns and projects. They galvanize the
community to tackle disease prevention and personal health care needs. LHDs also educate
and encourage people to lead healthy lives through community forums; public workshops and
presentations; and public service announcements.

Link people to health services. LHDs connect people with personal health services, including
preventive and health promotion services, either in the community or as close to the community
as possible. They also advocate for development of needed programs and services in
underserved populations and continuously monitor the quality and accessibility of public health
servrces.

Achieve excellence in public health practice through a trained workforce, evaluation, and
evidence-based programs. LHDs recruit and develop skilled workers with expertise in core
public health competencies. They ensure that public health workers update their knowledge and
skills through continuing education, training and leadership development activities. They
regularly evaluate the effectiveness of all programs and activities using evidence-based
standards and strive to adapt successful interventions from other communities.

ATTACHMENT #7 

Testimony to Board of Directors, Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Cook County Department of Public Health?s Elimination of Family Case Management
July 23, 2008 7
By Robyn Gabel, Executive Director-
Maternal and Child Health Coalition

Good morning, Mr. Chairman and members ofthe Board of Directors. Thank you for the opportunity to express
our opinions and concerns regarding the Family Case Management program at Cook County Department'of
Public Health Family Case Management (FCM) is an invaluable resource for Illinois? families that plays
an important role in the prevention of negative birth outcOmes such as prematurity, low birth weight, and infant
mortality. Elimination of the FCM program in the is of great concern in the face of disappointing trends
in infant mortality and significant racial and socioeconomic disparities in birth outcomes. The United States
ranks poorly among industrialized nations with an infant mortality rate (IMR) of live births, what's
more is that Illinois fairs worse with an IMR of live births and an almost three-fold disparity in infant
mortality between black and white infants.

FCM connects families with necessary resources such as timely access to healthcare and adequate nutrition thus
promoting the health and well?being of infants and their families. Additionally, FCM allows for the early 
identification ofand intervention in pregnancy?related and developmental problems, in turn reducing the
occurrence of more serious and costly problems.

The expansion of the FCM program to provide services to all families receiving Medicaid has been critical in
assuring access to needed services for low-income families. This is especially important given the association
between socioeconomic status and birth outcomes.

We must express our disappointment with the Board?s decision to eliminate FCM in the While we
understand that a plan is being developed to reassign the thousands of families currently receiving services
through the FCM program to community based organizations and we are concerned that the
numbers are too large and the transition time is too short to adequately ensure that all families are
appropriately reassigned.

The elimination of FCM directly contradicts the Department?s recommendation that the focus on Health
Promotion as one of its five areas of ?core business?. Prevention isa key element in Health Promotion and FCM
is one of only a few long-standing programs dedicated to prevention. This move by the can be
construed as a lack of commitment by the health department to promote and monitor the health of the
youngest and most vulnerable residents of Cook County. While we recognize the financial commitment required
to maintain FCM, we are particularly concerned that this decision was primarily economic and failed to account
for the societal benefits and cost effectiveness of prevention programs such as FCM. The Department stated in
the July' 7th memorandum that ?when clients are not contacted or assessed, the potential for intervention to
prevent a negative outcome is diminished?. Clearly, they understand that the impact of FCM is intrinsically
related to both the adequacy and timing of the intervention. This is especially relevant during pregnancy

Illinois Maternal and Child Health Coalition 1256 W. Chicago Avenue Chicago, lL 60642
Tel. 312-491?8161 Fax 312-491?8171 E?mail: ilmaternal@ilmaternal.0rg

because we know timing to be critical in healthy birth outcomes. We fear that this transition will affect both the
adequacy and timing of the family case management program having a significant impact on the thousands of
families currently receiving case management services through the With a caseload of 21,500
the Cannot merely ?redirect? families but has an obligation to develop and actively pursue a plan that
will guarantee that families are not lost in the process nor their services delayed.

We are disappointed at the undemocratic manner in which this decision was reached. The Board failed to notify
the public of the proposed change; furthermore, the ?nal judgment was made impulsively and without regard
for the serious implications of this decision. We hope that in the future, the public is allowed to have a voice in

matters that are as vitally important as this one.

Illinois Maternal and Child Health Coalition 1256 W. Chicago Avenue Chicago, lL 60642 
Tel; 312?491-8161 Fax 312?491?8171 E?mail: ilmaternal@ilmaternal.org

 NNOC Nurse Rebuttal for the reduction/ elimination of services

The nurses at Cook County Department of Public Health feel that the elimination of the
Family Case management Program would have devastating effects on already falling
communities. Studies have shown that the public health'nursing models for FCM has
been more bene?cial than non nursing models. With the elimination of this nursing
model we will see an incline of a decreasing infant mortality rate, preterm deliveries,
child abuse and neglect, teen pregnancy rates, and premature deaths related to inadequate
health including postpartum depression. It requires skill professional nurses to identify
many life threatening illness, impending health problems, and perinatal depression.

Infant mortality rates are an indication of the health of an entire community.

Franklin Deleanor Roosevelt once said that the ?states paramount concern Should be the
health ofz'ts people. We feel the same about our residents of Cook County. We feel
that this current administration at has put numbers, pro?tability, and personal
job security for the multiple layers of management over the health of the community. We
have seen numerous reductions in services over the last ten years and this is yet another
one while the upper management team continues to increase.

The organizational structure for the 2006?2008 years will show (2) directors of nursing,
(2) regional directors, (4) district supervisors, (5) assistant nursing supervisors, and 1)
director of special programs. A total of 14 in nursing upper management to supervise

64 nurses. This does not include (1) director over clinics to supervise 8-10 clinic nurses.
This results in a nurse'to management ratio of 5:1. If this is a microcosm for the entire
bureau of health we can see why Cook County had a de?cit of 500 million dollars and if
not corrected will continue on a downward spiraling road. This is total mismanagement
of funds.

Management Will argue that some of those positions have been eliminated. Some have
resigned or retired from the positions leaving them open, but these were recent and the
argument to eliminate the program was based on the past budgets. A further study will
show similar duplications in other areas through?out 

The department recently added services from the Evanston Health Department, a hefty
budget for the TB San (active tuberculosis cases has drastically decreased with no recent
outbreaks), and were trying to force nurses to work as nutritionist in the W1C program on
top of our high caseloads. We feel that these are strategies used as a safety net by
creating more titles for directors due to these changes while planning all along to
eliminate this much needed program (per Dr. Martin?s statement dated 7/7/08, a ?2010
goal?).

In his memorandum dated 7/7/08 for FCM service reduction, one of Dr.

Martin?s statements was that the nurses are carrying an average of 300 cases per nurse
manager (this is 150 cases over the 150 per case manager recommended by IDHS) and
were ?unable to meet their performance standards for the period of 10/ 1/07?12/3 1/07?.

The displacement of 5 nurses during this same period who were instructed to stop home
visits and prepare their charts for reassignment and closdres had some affect on this
outcome. However, despite these high caseloads nurses where able to meet the
performance standards for all other 3 quarters of the ?scal year and recently passed the
states audit with certi?cation for a 2 year period and were told that they did a good job.

Nurses at and NNOC feel that the elimination of this program will be a travesty
for the community and will have a direct effect on the health of the population. We feel
that other, avenues could have been explored, especially since the department was
awarded the 6 million dollar grant and have 2?3 millions already in a ?deferred revenue
account? which totals the 9 million needed to sustain the program at least until the end of
the June 2009 ?scal year. Then hopefully a plan to sustain the program is ongoing.

Some nurses have been employed by for over 20?30 years, and to have to learn
about the elimination of this success?il program and the elimination of their jobs from a
newspaper article was disgraceful. Then for management to come out and read a
statement offering the employee assistant program (BAP) was a total insult. Most of
programs/ grants are integrated, so these same nurses function in several
different capacities and budgets. We are the backbone for implementing the agency
grants.

We hope that this board/ committee take this matter into careful consideration because

elimination of the FCM program and nursing positions will be the catalyst for a negative

impact on the health of the community. In addition it will have a delayed a?ect on state

and county budgets by increasing the cost of health care due to adverse health outcomes
imposed on the population due to your decisions.

Submitted by:
Irene Hardy RN
NNOC chief steward

 

 

Medical Director

Linda Murray, MD, MPH

 

 

 

 

Integrated Health Support Services Unit

 

 

Director
Sandy Mai-tell, RN, MS

 

 

 

Administrative Support
Administrative Asst. 2
Kathy Dugal, BS

 

 

 

Administrative Assistants i

 

 

 

Clerical Support
Coordinator
Olivia Guajardo

I

 

 

 

 

Clinic Services
Family "Planning
Kathleen McDunn RN, MS



Public Health Nursing
Programs
Case Management

 

 

 

 

North District

Business Of?ce Supervisor

Joey Joy Tan

1 .

Director of Nursing 
Barbara Fisli, RN, 

 

 

Clinic Nurses

 

 

 

 

 

W1C Nutrition Program
Director
Doris Bratis, RD, MPH

Health Screening
Disease Management
Coordinator
Patricia Rewers, RN, MS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

West District

Business Of?ce Supervisor

Gloria Tillis

 

 

Southwest District

Business Of?ce Supervisor

Josie Danek

 

 

Southeast District

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Business Of?ce Supervisor

Emilia Melero

 

 

South District 

Business Office Supervisor

 

 

 

 

 

Clinic 
Assistants WIC Assistant WIC Assistant Breast 
Director North Director South 6 Cervical Cancer
J. Zarebski, RD, MS Vacant
1 Special Projects
Lead Lead - PSA
Nutritionist Nutritionist
Support Staff Support to 17
Vision Hearing
Regional Coordinator Regional Coordinator
North West Southwest South
Gnenpu Stubble?eld, RN, MSN Debbie Brooks, RN, MS

 

 

 

 

Lynda Nguyen

 

I Nurses 

 

 

NDO District Nursing
Supervisor

A. . [nit
negirla QUVUHC, IUV, IWOJV

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Health
Advocates

 

 

 

9/26/06

 

NDO Assistant Nursing
Supervisor
N. Angelopaulos, RN, BSN

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cook County Department of Public Health

Integrated Health Support Services

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ruth Wheel, RN, MSN

 

 

A SW District Nursing SD District Nursing
WDO District Supervisor Supervisor 
Nursing Supervisor Nurses Kathy Dunn, RN, MS Vacant
Gibb, Riv: 
SDO Assistant
WDO Assistant Health Nursing Supervisor
Nursing Supervisor Advocates SW Assistant Nursing C. Corrigan, RN, MS
Vacant Supervisor 

 

 

 

SDO Assistant
Nursing Supervisor

 

 

 

Health
Advocates

 

 

 

J. Taveme, RN, MSN

 

 

 

 

 

Health
Advocates

 

 

 

 

My name is Irene Hardy; I have been a RN for 32 years and with Public health nearly 14
years. The nurses at and through-out the bureau were very optimistic about this
new Board of Director in hepes that you would make the real changes needed to put the

focus back on the clients, finding was to improve the quality of care and to carry out the
real mission of servicing the residents of Cook County. We are very disappointed in your
decision to eliminate the Family Case management program in a single vote without
reviewing data on the success of the program or hearing opposing statements on the need
for this vital program. 

The communities that will suffer the most will be the neediest areas. A large population
that service is minority communities with higher teen pregnancy rates. . African
Americans and Hispanic have some of the highest rates of infant mortality in the country.
Infant mortality rates are an indication of the health of the entire community.

While non nursing CM models-can coordinate services and give referrals. Skilled
nurses can quickly identify impending problems; diagnose life threatening illness such as
pre-eclampsia, GDM, placenta previa or perinatal depression in pregnant women as well
as congenital, cardiac or respiratory problems in infants and children which leads to
premature death. Early detection, intervention and health education is the key to good
prognosis and decreasing healthcare cost with life long bene?ts.

We feel that the elimination of this program will be a travesty and have a direct affect on
the health of the community. The county and state will see an increase in preterm
deliveries, low infant birth rates, child abuse and neglect, teen pregnancy rates, and
premature death related to late DX and treatment of illness and] or perinatal depression.

We hope that this Board will reconsider this vote and we urge you to take some time to
look at other avenues to sustain this essential program. We feel that if this board
proceeds hastily with this decision it will be the catalyst to reverse all the gains obtained
in loWering infant morality and preterm death and have a negative impact on entire
communities.

We are baf?ed over the urgency to eliminate this program, since the nurses recently
passed the states audit with certi?cation over a 2 year period for up to 6 million annually.
We ?ll that this 6 million and the 2-3 million in the deferred revemie account as
referenced in Dr Martins? memorandum dated 7/7/08 for service reductions can at least
sustain the program until the end of the 6/30/09 state ?scal year and stop the closure of

active cases being imposed presently for infants over 6 months of age risking interruption
of services and putting them at risk. This will give a less risky transition and the needed
time to explore other options.

A program with such success at in lowering infant mortalities and preterm
deliveries for almost 20 years and affects over 21, 000 residents of Cook County surely
deserves a second look before elimination. .

 

NATIONAL NURSES CALIFORNIA
A66 ORGANIZING COMMITTEE Eaagj?qgg?ATION

Testimony submitted to the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals Committee, Wednesday, July 23, 2008
Frank Borgers, Ph. D. National Nurses Organizing Committee

NNOC believes the decision to eliminate the Family Case Management Program
(FCMP) was made without a thorough review of the administration's case, and without
adequate publicdiscussion. Dr. Martin?s memorandum to the Board of Directors (July 7,
2008), by itself, raises several urgent questions that should be explored before
proceeding with elimination.

1) Martin presents the elimination of FCMP as extremely urgent and warns that Board
inaction would be very costly. However, Bureau administrators knew of the immediate
financial crisis facing FCMP as early as March 3, 2008, and systemic under?
funding was recognized long before this. (Martin Memo, p. 2-3) Given the alleged
urgency why did Bureau leadership wait until July 11th to confront this crisis?

- 2) The anticipated FY2009 shortfall in Federal reimbursement the trigger for 
crisis was $900,000. (Martin Memo, p. 1-2) Is it not possible to identify efficiencies or
other savings elsewhere in the $182m Bureau budget to cover this shortfall?

3) Martin states that high caseloads have "contributed to the failure to meet
performance standards" and that FCMP was ?unable to meet their performance
standards for the period of (Martin Memo, p. 2) Martin does not
account for the performance impact of the displacement of five case managers during
this period. Martin also fails to acknowledge that nurses met the performance standards 
for the other 3 quarters of 2007 and that FCMP passed the state' 3 audit in early 2008
with certi?cation for a 2 year period.

While FCMP- clearly suffers from inadequate state and federal funding and chronic
nurse under-staffing, the entire Bureau and its mission face these challenges. NNOCs
support and-advocacy for the creation of the Board of Directors was based on the hope
that this- newbody would craft-more creative. solutions to these challenges than the
failed "tax or cut" approach of Cook County?s administration over the last two years.

Eliminating FCMP raises obvious concerns regarding the impact of the elimination of
FCMP on mothers and infants and ongoing efforts to reduce racial disparities' In infant
mortality. These concerns are discussed briefly below.

We urge the Board to consider the impact of their decision making-process on County
nurses and support staff. As discussed below, systemic failures of the Bureau and
successive rounds of nursing cuts have taken a heavy toll on nurse morale. The

. elimination of FCMP and its case managers, without exploring creative alternatives,
perpetuates this vicious cycle.

NNOC respectfully urges the Board to reconsider its vote in order to allow a thorough
review of the administration '8 case.

Infant Mortality and the need for the Family Case Management Program: FCMP
has had a case management program for medically high risk mothers and infants since
1945 and currently serves approximately 21,500 clients per month. Dr. Martin
acknowledges that in the absence of the services provided by FCMP "the potential for
intervention to prevent a negative outcome such as a low birth weight infant, pre-term
labor, and/or infectious disease is diminished. "(Martin Memo, p. 1)

While probably redundant for members of this committee, it must be recognized that US
infant immortality rates are a disgrace fora country as wealthy as ours, that Illinois fares
poorly in state comparisons, and even worse with regard to racial disparities.

As widely reported last week, following the release of the Commonwealth Fund 8 annual
healthcare scorecard report, the US- at 6. 8 deaths per 1 ,000 live births- continues to
rank last among the eight industrialized countries that report infant mortality using the
same methodology. US infant mortality is more than double the leading countries (2.8 to
3.1 deaths per 1,000 live births in Japan, lceland, and Sweden in 2004).

Illinois continues to report mortality rates higher than the national average, at 7. 5 deaths
per 1 ,000. live births' In 20042. Black infant mortality' In Illinois runs more than twice as
high, at 15. 7 deaths per 1 ,000 live births in 20043, more than three times the average
mortality for West Europe, and the same or higher than rates in 19 Latin American and
Caribbean countries, and 12 East European countries.4

It is hard to understand how the Board can justify elimination of FCMP given the urgent
need to reduce infant mortality. At a minimum, NNOC would hope that the Board would
first explore creative options for operational reform and financing of FCMP.

Registered Nurse Morale at The systemic failures of the Bureau and
successive rounds of nursing cuts have taken a heavy toll on nurse morale which, in
turn, has exacerbated County?s poor record for nurse recruitment.

NNOCs recent survey of over 400 County RNs found that 82 percent said morale ?has
deteriorated over the past year. Of the 17 percent who said morale is ?about the same,?
many would agree with a Stroger nurse who pointed out that morale ?was depressed
last year and it remains depressed.? Bureau wide findings are mirrored at with
33 out of 36 nurses reporting worsened morale over the past year.

Systemic failures in patient care and scapegoating of RNs, a lack of respect and
recognition for RNs, and a lack of faith in administration top the list of factors driving
declining RN morale. (See fig.1) Workload stress and theongoing uncertainties around
job security weigh also heavily on County nurses. -

 

The Commonwealth Fund, "'Why Not the Best? Results from the National Scorecard on US Health
System Performance 2008" July 2008.

2US National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics Reports. v. 55., No. 19, August 21,
2007.

3ibid.
4 US Census Bureau, Global Population Profile: 2002.

Due to decreased staf?ng and cut positions nurses continue to be held accountable
for productivity, this impacts morale on an intense level. 
Due to uncertainty of funding for healthcare services I feel all county health dept
employees have suffered a decrease in morale. -

Fear of the unknown in terms ofjob security has demoralized County 3.

Lack of staf?ng overwhelms those working to keep up with work load

Morale is at an all time low. is shOrt?staffed and will continue to be stressed
with many forth-coming changes.

Nurses are working endlessly with little Or nothing to accomplish same goals as in
the past.

Overwhelming, over-stressed, over-worked 8. understaffed leading to emotional
fatigue physical maladies.

RN morale has been greatly reduced overtime- the ability to practice what a REAL

nurse function is has been greatly diminished.

RN '8 feel scapegoated for all the coUnty woes. Meanwhile, friends and family of
administrators are getting jobs with little quali?cations.

TERRIBLE. So understaffed poorly run by Administration.

The employees at are not respected, I think morale Is at its lowest since I 've
been employed at CC. 

This administration encourages a style that wants staff to have such a low morale.
Unsure of future at County.

Unsure of future role of nursing.

The elimination of FCIVIP and its case managers, without ?rst exploring creative .
reforms, perpetuates the vicious cycle of chronic mismanagement, nurse under-staf?ng,
and failing patient care, that is undermining RN morale at County.

