HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: February 9, 2017
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Thursday, February 16, 2017 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the
Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

8:30/Chairman Richardson-Lowry

II.

Public Speakers

8:30-8:40

III.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting

8:40-8:40/Chairman Richardson-Lowry

of December 9, 2016
B. Any items listed under Sections III and V

IV.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources

8:40-9:25/Gladys Lopez

V.

Closed Meeting Items

9:25-10:10

A.
B.
C.
D.

Report from Chief of Human Resources
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Richardson-Lowry
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Driscoll and Thomas

** Also included as a potential Closed Meeting Item/Discussion under Section V.

 