Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held
Thursday, November 29, 2012 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference
Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order; however, a quorum was not present. The Board continued to
receive information until approximately 7:45 A.M.; at this time, a quorum was reached, and the Board began to
consider the items presented.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Quin R. Golden;
Edward L. Michael; Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (6)

Present
Telephonically: Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM (1)
Absent:

Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD; and Carmen Velasquez (3)

Chairman Carvalho stated that Director O’Donnell was unable to be physically present, but is able to participate in
the meeting telephonically.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Golden, moved to allow Director O’Donnell to
participate as a voting member for this meeting telephonically. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director O’Donnell indicated her presence telephonically.

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply Chain
Management
John Cookinham – System Chief Financial Officer
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. – Cook County State’s
Attorney’s Office
Claudia Fegan, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County
Roberta Fruth, PhD, RN, FAAN – Joint Commission
Resources
Susan Greene – System Interim Director of Managed
Care

II.

Helen Haynes – System Associate General Counsel
Kristine Mueller – Cermak Health Services of Cook
County
Michael Puisis, MD – Cermak Health Services of
Cook County
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Carol Schneider – System Chief Operating Officer

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.

Michael Newman

2.

George Blakemore

Associate Director, AFSCME Council 31 (written testimony included –
Attachment #1)
Concerned Citizen

Page 1 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, October 26, 2012
Director Golden, seconded by Director Michael, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Board of Directors Meeting of October 26, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, November 13, 2012
During the presentation of the minutes, Director Michael referenced the subject of the development of the
2013 Quality Plan and Dashboard; from his perspective, the purpose of the dashboard is to focus the entire
organization on two or three “big dot” items, for which the Board feels improvement from a quality and
patient standpoint is needed in the System in the coming year.
Director Michael stated that there has been some discussion on a number of subjects that could be the “big
dot” items for inclusion in the Dashboard; those subjects include the reduction of hospital acquired
conditions, improvement in patient satisfaction, and the reduction in thirty day readmissions. The
Committee is not yet prepared to make a recommendation on the adoption of one or all of them. He
requested that the Board Members provide their input on other “big dot” items that could be included in the
Dashboard, along with any comments on the three that have been referenced. Additionally, he welcomed
any comments on the subject from the medical and nursing staff, and from the community in general. He
noted that the Committee plans to propose the adoption of a new Quality Plan along with the Dashboard; the
Quality Plan will detail the strategies and tactics that will be used to achieve the improvements that are
targeted in the Dashboard. The Dashboard will be reported on a monthly basis, both at the Quality and
Patient Safety Committee Meeting and to the full Board.
The Board discussed another subject that was discussed at the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Meeting, regarding the citation from The Joint Commission relating to auditing medical records. When a
medical record is delinquent, it has surpassed its threshold of usually thirty days after discharge without a
signature. Chairman Carvalho inquired whether the Department Chairs are made to be accountable for the
late records for the physicians within their departments. Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer of John
H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, responded that the Department Chairs are responsible for holding
their members responsible for delinquent medical records. She noted that most of the delinquent records at
this time are several years old and are manual charts; staff is trying to clean up some back data. There are
not as many delinquencies with recent charts, as there has been a focus on the need to sign charts because of
its necessity for billing purposes.
Director Michael, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Meeting of November 13, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 2 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 3

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, November 16, 2012
Chairman Carvalho noted that the Rules of the Board allow him to appoint non-Director persons to participate
as non-voting members of Committees; pursuant to that authority, he has appointed Mr. Donald Oder to the
Finance Committee. Chairman Carvalho introduced and welcomed Mr. Oder, who was present at this Board
meeting.
During the presentation of the minutes, Director Golden indicated that there was a discussion at the Finance
Committee Meeting regarding enrollment activities relating to the CareLink Policy and the Board’s
expectations. She noted that the Board will need to discuss the subject further, as it relates to mandatory
versus voluntary enrollment, process, and expectations. Chairman Carvalho added that, similar to the topics
discussed at the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, the Finance Committee also discussed how
this subject interplays with the System’s mission and how the System’s mission is implemented, with respect
to those who reside outside of Cook County and who seek care at the System.
Director Michael, seconded by Director Golden, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Finance Committee Meeting of November 16, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho voted PRESENT on request numbers 1 through 7, under the
Contracts and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.
Director Michael re-stated his abstention and PRESENT vote on request number 16,
under the Contracts and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.

D. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, November 16, 2012
During the presentation of the minutes, the subject of nurse staffing was discussed. Director Muñoz requested
that the Board receive information that provides further detail on the System’s accomplishments over the last year
in the hiring of nurses. Director Golden indicated that information was provided at the Human Resources
Committee Meeting regarding the current status of nurse hiring; she stated that information from this date last
year can be provided for purposes of comparison1.
Director Golden, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of November 16, 2012. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

Action Items
A. Proposed Appointment of Julio Rodriguez to the CORE Foundation Board (Attachment #2)
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Golden, moved the approval of the proposed
Appointment of Julio Rodriguez to the CORE Foundation Board. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 3 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 4

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #3)
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, presented the requests for the Board’s
consideration.
Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, provided additional information regarding the requests. He
addressed the comments that were made by Mr. Newman, representing AFSCME Council 31, during the
presentation of public testimony (written comments included as Attachment #1), regarding the three
requests. Dr. Raju indicated that it was an oversight on the System’s part by not giving adequate notice to
the unions regarding the proposed contracts for temporary staffing. In the past, he stated that the
administration has asked its union partners to collaborate with the System, and they have been very
receptive.
Dr. Raju stated that the System is doing a much better job at billing and collection, but it is not where it
needs to be. According to last year’s budget, the System was supposed to collect $42 million on the
outpatient side in billing and collection; because of the sheer volume and the number of coders available,
the System could only collect $17 million. He noted that the System has used most of its in-house coders to
do inpatient work, because that is where most of the dollars are; therefore, the outpatient side continues to
be an issue. It has always been his intention to bring this function in-house; this means that the coders have
to be all trained and they have to pass the qualifying examination. Regular management labor council
meetings are held; these types of matters are addressed at those meetings. The administration will work
with the union partners to figure out a plan within sixty days of how to move this upward to the next level.
With regard to the other two contractual requests, Dr. Raju stated that the System has to staff up very
quickly for the Section 1115 Waiver Demonstration Project and other critical areas. The total full-time
equivalent employees (FTEs) to be added this year are over 900. The System plans to bring the first 500
FTEs into the System in a very short time period; following that, there will be another 400 positions to be
filled in the remaining months of 2013. The administration will work very hard to make sure that all of the
FTE positions that are budgeted for 2013 are filled. Dr. Raju added that the requests for temporary workers
are vital because the System cannot fall back on its collection process.
With regard to request number 1, Chairman Carvalho noted that there is a thirty day cancellation clause in
the contract; although this is a three year contract, if the System is able to develop the expertise in-house
before the end of the contract, the System can cancel the contract. Dr. Raju concurred. He stated that the
contracts for all three requests have the thirty day cancellation clause, and added that the expenditures under
the contracts will be for services on an as-needed basis – the total contract spend for the requests will
depend on how quickly the System can get these services in-house.
Chairman Carvalho noted that when he first started on the System Board, he knew that the quality of coding
was a big issue for the System; since 2008, there has been a concerted effort to address this issue. He stated
that there was an assessment of the issue four years ago – the conclusion was that almost none of the
Stroger Hospital coders were certified, productivity was 40% of industry standards, and accuracy had an
equally dismal number. The administration has worked to get people trained, and it has been reported to the
Board that the percentage of coders who are certified is much higher than it was; however, he asked
whether information can be provided on whether the productivity is meeting industry standards, and
regarding the quality of the coding.

Page 4 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 5

IV.

Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Chairman Carvalho noted that the System used to bill Medicaid on a day rate basis; this meant that, without
regard to diagnosis, the System got paid the same amount – so while an institution would want the coding to
be top-notch, the consequence of something being mis-coded was not a matter of fraud and abuse, as the
institution got paid the same amount, regardless. The System is now moving away from that, so the quality
of the coding is essential. He stated that he is in support of whatever is needed to get the quality and output
of coding that is required. In response to Chairman Carvalho’s request for further information on the
subject, Dr. Raju stated that he will work to get the productivity report on coding as soon as possible2.
Director Golden noted that these three requests relate to human capital. She stated that there needs to be a
bridge where these types of items are also discussed by the Human Resources Committee. The Human
Resources Committee reviews information on hiring that is being done for permanent staff, but it also needs
to be able to review and discuss contracts for outside staffing, from a big picture perspective. Chairman
Carvalho noted that the Finance and Human Resources Committees typically meet on the same day; he
stated that in the future, if there are requests presented to the Finance Committee that relate to a Human
Resources topic, it would be a good idea to also have it discussed in the Human Resources Committee.
Director Michael stated that he would like to see a month-by-month or quarter-by-quarter plan for filling
permanent positions as a transition from each of these contracts – knowing the timing of that is critical. Dr.
Raju stated that the issue is that the administration is trying to structure a system that is not adequately
staffed, while also taking on new initiatives in the System. He will try his best to bring this information in
as a part of this. Within the next three or four months, he cannot afford to look at anything else other than
the critical projects, including the 1115 Waiver Demonstration Project staffing and implementation, Stroger
Hospital’s Joint Commission corrections, and Cermak Health Services staffing. Chairman Carvalho stated
that the Board needs to recognize that and give Dr. Raju their support, because the three priorities have to
get done, and be done in a timeline for which there is no precedent in the System.
Vice Chairman Ramirez stated that the former Chief Executive Officer had an agreement that worked with
at least one of the unions involved to get bodies in to do coding. He noted there are labor folks who are
willing to help be part of the solution to the problem, but the timing is critical.
Director Michael noted that there was a comment in request numbers 2 and 3 that read “ [we] require
temporary manpower to work outpatient accounts that are not being effectively worked by outside vendor.”
He inquired further regarding this comment. John Cookinham, System Chief Financial Officer, responded
that there has always been a focus on inpatient accounts, and not enough staff to effectively take care of
outpatient accounts. As early as 2007, the System outsourced the initial preparation of outpatient bills to a
vendor. Another contract was put in place with another vendor to do the follow-up activity for those
accounts that remain unpaid. Dr. Raju stated that once the initial bills get rejected, the System has one or
two options - either it can use the initial billing vendor to do it again, or if it wants to use that vendor to
concentrate on the initial billing, it can use a different vendor to do the follow-up, in order for the System to
collect as much as possible.
Director Michael inquired regarding the estimate of the fiscal impact on collections that these requests
represent. Mr. Cookinham responded that he can provide an estimate of this amount3.

Page 5 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 6

IV.

Action Items
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Chairman Carvalho noted that a casual read of the language on the transmittal would suggest that the
current vendor is not doing a very good job, so therefore the System is adding another vendor – only
through conversation, it was learned that the administration directed the vendor to focus on one thing; now
it has been decided that the best way of focusing on the follow-up is to get a second vendor who focuses on
that. He asked the administration to keep in mind when preparing these documents, that these are public
documents that are provided to a Board who has no other information than what is provided on the
transmittal.
Director Golden, seconded by Director Michael, moved the approval of request numbers
1 through 3, under the Contracts and Procurement Items. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Proposed Resolution – in recognition of Dr. Michael Puisis, upon his retirement from the
System (Attachment #4)
Chairman Carvalho read the proposed Resolution into the record; Dr. Puisis was congratulated and thanked
for his years of leadership.
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the
Proposed Resolution in recognition of Dr. Michael Puisis. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
At this time, the Board recessed the regular session, in order to convene and recess closed session to the call of
the Chair. Following Chairman Carvalho’s recess of closed session, the Board reconvened its regular session and
continued to receive information on Items V and VI.
A. Board Education
 Overview of The Joint Commission (TJC) Accreditation process
Carol Schneider, System Chief Operating Officer, introduced the item and provided a brief background. She
stated that in September, in preparation for the upcoming survey by TJC, the System retained Joint
Commission Resources to do a robust mock survey. Representatives from Joint Commission Resources
coordinated the mock survey around the chapters of TJC’s standards. Surveyors from TJC arrived for the
unannounced survey in the last week of October.

Page 6 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 7

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
 Board Education - Overview of The Joint Commission (TJC) Accreditation process (continued)
Dr. Roberta Fruth, from Joint Commission Resources, provided an overview of TJC Accreditation process.
The information that was presented focused upon the following two subjects relating to the Leadership
Chapter: 1) how TJC accreditation relates to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS); and 2)
the role of the Board in terms of TJC accreditation, patient safety and quality of care.
Ms. Fruth provided a brief review of TJC’s history. With the passage of the Medicare legislation in 1965,
TJC took on a new role and was given what is called “deeming status” by the Federal government. To be
approved as a deeming authority, an accrediting organization must demonstrate that its program meets or
exceeds the Medicare requirements for which they are seeking the authority to deem compliant. When
Medicare and Medicaid came into existence, the Federal government reviewed the situation and determined
that there needed to be some level of quality in the services for which it was paying, so it partnered with TJC,
as it had been in existence for a while, and was focusing on quality and safety. The Federal government
determined that if an organization is accredited by TJC, then CMS will recognize the organization for
reimbursement. Accreditation by TJC was no longer voluntary; rather, this was an important step if an
organization wanted to be recognized by the Federal government for this reimbursement structure.
Until 2008, TJC never had to re-apply to CMS for deeming status; in 2008, the government changed that
ruling, and now TJC has to re-apply for deeming status every five years. What that ruling did was change the
relationship between TJC and CMS - now CMS and TJC are much closer partners in terms of looking at the
standards around health care.
The CMS standards are referred to as Conditions of Participation. TJC standards align with the Conditions of
Participation, although they are not exactly the same terms. For example, a Condition of Participation will
say something to the effect that blood and blood byproducts have to be safely administered; however, TJC has
four or five standards that relate to that one Condition of Participation.
Dr. Fruth stated that CMS sometimes perform their own surveys through state health inspectors. Part of the
relationship with TJC is that CMS comes in after about 3% of TJC surveys per year, to validate and confirm
the findings from the survey by TJC. CMS can also do other surveys, as well. They follow up on patient,
staff and employee complaints. An increase in these types of surveys nationwide has been seen in recent
years, in terms of patient complaints.
With regard to the role of the Board in leading the organization to ensure patient safety and quality of care,
Dr. Fruth noted that there were a couple of subjects discussed earlier in this meeting, in particular the Quality
Dashboard, that are exactly the types of subjects that TJC would recommend for discussion, in terms of the
activity of the leaders of the organization. According to TCJ’s perspective, the leaders of an organization are
the governance board, senior management, and the organized medical staff, working together to ensure safety
and quality. In fact, TJC has a specific standard that says that the governing board is ultimately accountable
for the safety and quality of care, treatment and services.
Dr. Fruth noted that in the Board’s earlier conversation relating to the Quality Dashboard, one of the topics
that is currently being considered for inclusion in the Dashboard relates to the thirty day readmission rate.
CMS has indicated that it will be looking at these data; for those organizations that have a high readmission
rate within thirty days of discharge, CMS will need to review the reimbursement structure to determine the
amount the organization is going to get paid in those situations.

Page 7 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 8

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
 Board Education - Overview of The Joint Commission (TJC) Accreditation process (continued)
This oversight of quality and safety also involves implementing changes to improve performance of the
hospital in this area of safety. Although the System will be using a Quality Dashboard, Dr. Fruth noted that it
was also mentioned that the System is going to look at a new Quality Plan; this would tie into this whole idea
of not just looking at the numbers, but trying to make changes as they come forward.
Dr. Fruth stated that TJC has a standard included in the Leadership Chapter that the governing board has
oversight in contracts; however, this not only refers to the fiscal elements of the contracts, it refers to the
quality indicators in those contracts. One type of contract reviewed on a regular basis is dialysis contracts.
Some questions that would be addressed in the review of this type of contract are: What are the qualifications
of the staff that the dialysis company is bringing in? How is the staff trained? Is the staff going to follow the
standards established by the hospital in terms of patient safety? Is the company taking care of its equipment
appropriately? Are they following good infection prevention practices?
The governing board has the ultimate oversight, authority and responsibility for the oversight and the delivery
of health care provided by its licensed independent practitioners or physicians, as well as the other
practitioners credentialed and privileged through the medical staff process. The organized medical staff has
the oversight role of looking at what is the practice level of the organization’s licensed independent
practitioners (LIPs), as well as other individuals who are credentialed and privileged. A few years ago, TJC
changed its standard for the medical staff. The medical staff standard had said that the organized medical
staff has oversight of the practice of LIPs; TJC changed the standard to say that the organized medical staff
has leadership and oversight of the practice of LIPs. With that change, TJC is saying that the organized
medical staff are the leaders of patient safety and quality.
With regard to credentialing, privileging and re-privileging, the TJC standard states that the governing board
has the final oversight of the activities of its licensed independent practitioners. Very recently, TJC
introduced what they call Ongoing Professional Practice Evaluations (OPPEs) and Focused Professional
Practice Evaluations (FPPEs). Many might consider this a form of peer review. Questions should be
addressed as to how physicians look within their own divisions/departments in their own way, to what is
quality care, and what are those indicators. One would expect those physicians to identify the appropriate
indicators for specialties.
Dr. Fruth noted that TJC has a National Patient Safety Goal relating to reducing occurrences of wrong-site
surgery. Staff that are involved or participating in a surgical procedure are expected to do a “time-out” right
before the procedure is started. The patient is on the operating room table, and everybody in the room has to
stop, come together and say, “this is Mary Jones. I have a consent for a left knee replacement. She has no
allergies...,” and go through a very short list of specifics relating to the patient and the procedure - everybody
in the room has to agree. From Dr. Fruth’s perspective, this is not a complex concept – it requires no new
technology, takes less than a minute, nothing needs to be done differently – but for some reason, there is still
a fair amount of this type of finding of non-compliance with “time-outs” in the survey process. Typically, if
there is a finding that time-outs are not being done by a particular department, the reason tends to be because
one of the parties (nursing/technicians/physicians) involved does not think it is important. With this example,
Dr. Fruth posed the question - at what point does the governing board recognize this as a patient safety issue?
Ms Fruth concluded by stating that there are quite a few other standards in the Leadership Chapter that she
hopes the Board will have the chance to review and discuss. TJC has really recognized that the leaders are the
individuals who must provide the support for patient safety and quality.
Page 8 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 9

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
 Section 1115 Waiver Implementation/CountyCare (Attachment #5)
Susan Greene, System Interim Director of Managed Care, presented an overview of the Section 1115
Waiver Implementation/CountyCare. Information reviewed in the presentation included the following
subjects: Overview – Office of Managed Care; Eligibility; Covered Services; CountyCare Network;
Infrastructure; Enrollment/Documentation; Clinical Transformation – Patient Centered Medical Home sites;
Reimbursement and Information Technology; Measuring and Rewarding Quality; and 1115 Demonstration
Evaluation. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.
Director Michael noted that the information indicated that the State must propose quality measures that will
be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the Patient Centered Medical Home sites. He inquired whether
there is a timetable for the State to propose those quality measures. Ms. Greene responded affirmatively;
she stated that this information will be included in the Terms and Conditions section of the agreement with
the State. Chairman Carvalho indicated that the Quality and Patient Safety Committee should receive
information on this subject.
During the discussion of enrollment and possible ways to incentivize patients to enroll in CountyCare,
Chairman Carvalho encouraged the administration to bring any proposed recommendations to increase
enrollment or incentivize patients to the Board, so that the Board can discuss and provide input.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #6)
This item was taken out of order, and followed the presentation on The Joint Commission Accreditation process.
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: FY2013 Budget Process; Public Health Update; and CAP
and AABB inspection of Stroger Hospital Laboratory. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.
Dr. Raju’s report included the recognition of the following events/individuals/subjects:
 AIDS Foundation of Chicago Impact Award
 Martha Webb, Stroger Hospital
Chairman Carvalho stated that one of the topics that has come up at recent meetings of the Board, Finance
Committee, and Quality and Patient Safety Committee is the subject of how, as the System moves forward with
the Section 1115 Waiver Demonstration Project, and as the System adjusts to some of the changes in State law
with respect to the obligations of all providers, including the System, to provide the care that they either are
required to provide or choose to provide to those who are under 200% of poverty, that they provide it for free.
The implication of that statute to most hospitals is not significantly different than their status quo, because most
hospitals are only providing charity care for those who are in an emergent situation coming into their emergency
room; services that are elective are typically not provided.
Most hospitals have a charity care policy that provides care for free for persons under 200% of poverty.
However, the System is different, in that it has historically provided care to everyone without regard to whether
they are a Cook County resident – for those who are not a Cook County resident, they’re not eligible for the
System’s Limits of Liability or CareLink Policies; for these patients, they are sent bills, but those bills have
generally turned into bad debt.

Page 9 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 10

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
Chairman Carvalho stated that the Board really needs to address this as a System; he has asked Dr. Raju to give
some thought to the process for doing that. The mission and the practice of the System was not determined by a
board somewhere adopting a resolution and then moving forward; rather, it was adopted by engaging all of the
stakeholders of the System. So a change to that will require a process of working with all of the stakeholders, as
well as the Board.
Dr. Raju stated that he and his staff will work on this matter and will come back to the Board with a proposed
plan. He stated that some of the issues that have been percolating over time relate to the following questions: how
many patients who reside outside of Cook County receive care at the System, and what is the total impact? Is the
System allowed to send bills to other counties for services provided to their residents?
An analysis was done that reflected that approximately 7% of the System’s patients are coming from outside of
Cook County; it was estimated that the total cost of care was approximately $24 million per year. With regard to
sending other counties the bills for care provided for their residents, it was determined that the System is not
allowed to do that, as it has no statutory authority to do so.
With regard to the changes in State law that require that medically necessary care be provided for free if the
individual has an income of 200% under poverty, Dr. Raju stated that clarification is needed on the term
“medically necessary care.” If it is determined that the System is only going to provide emergency care for the
residents of Illinois who live outside of Cook County, then the question is what that service should look like. He
and his staff will work out those questions and return with a plan.
Director Michael inquired as to the extent that the System requires patients to cooperate with the System to
determine eligibility for covered services (Medicaid, CareLink, etc.), as this is critical to the sustainability to the
System. Chairman Carvalho agreed that this should be addressed; he requested that Dr. Raju and his staff review
that subject.
Additionally, Chairman Carvalho stated that while other hospitals are not required to provide care beyond
emergency care, they do often refer people to the System. For example, they provide the emergency care, and
direct the patient to the System for follow-up care. If that follow-up care is not medically required or if it is not
emergency care, the administration may want to be in dialogue with other hospitals about its unwillingness to be
alone in this position. Dr. Raju agreed; he stated that he embarked on a charity care debate in his first year at the
System, because he felt that the System gives a disproportionate amount of charity care compared to any other
hospital system here. Over many years it has become a practice to send uninsured patients to the System for care.
He stated that Chairman Carvalho has asked him to provide an update at some point on the direction in which the
System is going, and regarding the vision of the System. He noted that one of the pro-bono consultants is
assisting with a strategy regarding the uninsured; he added that he is having conversations with multiple
stakeholders regarding that subject.
Director Michael noted recent comments made during the provision of public testimony regarding the impact of
closing Oak Forest Hospital; he stated that it would be helpful at some point, whether it is at a Quality and Patient
Safety Committee Meeting or Board Meeting, to receive an assessment of that action4. How did that go, what
was the impact on patients, did other hospitals in the area pick up the slack? It could be informative of some of
the issues in terms of the broader mission of the System. Chairman Carvalho added that it would be useful to
parse it out. Oak Forest Hospital had never been intended to serve as a true emergency room, but as an inpatient
service to long term care residents of Oak Forest. As it evolved, its standby emergency room became a point of
entry to the primary and specialty care services of the System. By converting the hospital to a health center with
urgent care services, the System Board aligned its licensing designation with its true role. True emergencies,
however,
Page 10 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 11

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
belong in a true emergency room and this is the obligation of surrounding hospitals. Dr. Raju noted that he will
be providing an update to the Illinois Health Facilities and Services Review Board on the subject in the near
future; in addition, he indicated that it is time to take another look at the System’s Strategic Plan.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Michael, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings
Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf
of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or
when the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for
the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,” and 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as provided in the
Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the
disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of
claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or communications from or
with respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental risk management
association or self insurance pool of which the public body is a member.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Golden, Michael,
Muñoz and Wiese (6)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Directors Butler, Morris, O’Donnell and Velasquez (4)

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho recessed the closed session to the call of the Chair, in order for the Board to
conclude receiving information on Items V and VI; following that activity, Chairman Carvalho
reconvened the recessed closed session.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened into
regular session.
VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared the MEETING
ADJOURNED.

Page 11 of 43

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, November 29, 2012
Page 12

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

1

Follow-up:
Page 3.
2

Regarding information on hiring of nurses – information for comparison to last year to be provided.

Follow-up: Coding Productivity Report to be provided. Page 5.

3

Follow-up: information to be provided on the estimate of the fiscal impact on collections that the requests under Item
IV(B) represent. Page 5.

4

Follow-up: Report to be received in the near future, at a Board of Directors Meeting or a Quality and Patient Safety
Committee Meeting, regarding an assessment of the impact of closing Oak Forest Hospital (see page 10 of the Minutes
for further details relating to the request). Page 10.

Page 12 of 43

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
November 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 13 of 43

  Council 3: 
AFSCME

Statement of Michael Newman, Associate Director, AFSCME Council 31
before the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board
November 29, 2012

We are deeply concerned about the three contracts that are being considered by the Board
this morning. Our concerns relate to the clear violation of the terms of our collective bargaining
agreement, and the impact of the contracting out on our members. AFSCME and other
unions have been engaged in extensive discussions with management over ways to forge a
new model for a labor-management partnership. We are very concerned about the impact of
these contracts on the partnership that is so vital for the success of the waiver, and to the
transformation of the Cook County Health and Hospitals Systems into Patient
Centered Medical Homes.

All three of these contracts are for work currently performed by the members of AFSCME
Council 31. Our collective bargaining agreement requires the Health and Hospitals System to
provide notice in advance of taking actions to privatize bargaining unit work. We were not
notified about the need for additional staff to perform this work, and we were not notified about
the decision to contract the work out. Instead of receiving the contractually mandated notice,
we were surprised and disturbed to learn about this contracting out through an email
announcing this meeting.

Earlier this year, when management approached us about contracting out some urgently
needed work in the pharmacy department, we were more than willing to make arrangements
that were mutually beneficial to both the hospital system and our members. We waived the
required notice and agreed to a memorandum that allowed the contract to go fonNard. We
recently cooperated with the administration to effectuate the consolidation of the Central
Business Office at Oak Forest Hospital. Several years ago when the coding process required
an upgraded staff skill level, we worked out a process to train employees in-house to meet the
needs of the hospital and provide upward mobility for our members.

We have put forth a plan to expand this program to train more coders in-house the very

positions that are being privatized under this contract but thus far the administration
has not acted on the proposal.

Page 14 of 43

We recognize the need to ?staff up" quickly to meet the demands of the new waiver process.
We worked with management to secure the waiver and are cooperating in many ways to
ensure that it will be successfully implemented.

But these are not short-term contracts. Given the length of these contracts, there is no
indication that there will be any effort to train our members and to bring this work in-house
despite the fact that doing so would be the least expensive and most efficient option in the long
run.

Based upon the commitment Dr. Raju has expressed to work cooperatively toward our mutual
goals concerning the transformation of the Health and Hospitals System, we are not
suggesting that it was his intent to circumvent our collective bargaining agreement or to take
steps that would negatively impact on dedicated employees. But these contracts should not
have gotten to this stage, however, without first working through issues with the union. It is our
hope that we will be able address the serious issues concerning these contracts in short order,
and to work out a solution that meets the needs of both the employees and the Health and
Hospitals System.

Page 15 of 43

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
November 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 16 of 43

 .i
Tom PRECKWINKLE

 

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY

11! NORTH CLARK STREET
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 50502
(312.) BOB-S400
TDD (312) 603-5283



October 19, 2012

Honorable Members of the Cook County

Health and Hospitals System Board

1900 West Polk Street, Suite 220

Chicago, Illinois 60612

Re: New Appointment CORE Foundation Board
Dear Commissioners:

Please be advised that I hereby appoint Julio Rodriguez to the CORE Foundation Board for a
term to begin immediately and to expire on December 31, 2014. Mr. Rodriguez will fill the
vacancy of Lucy Aquino.

I submit this communication for your approval.
Very truly yours,

Toni Preckwinkle AP ROVE 

President
NOV 29 2012

 

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
I HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

Printed nR yawn 
age 1%oei43 pa

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
November 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 18 of 43

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(B) 
NOVEMBER 29, 2012 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS
Request 
#

Vendor

Service or Product

Fiscal Impact

Begins 
Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#

Execute Contracts

1

Professional Dynamic 
Network (PDN)

Service ‐ contracted medical records
coding staffing

$1,000,000.00  System

2

2

The Washington Group

Service ‐ temporary staffing for a
Central Business Office

$800,000.00  System

3

Ajilon Professional Staffing

Service ‐ temporary staffing for a
Central Business Office

$800,000.00  System

4

3

Page 19 of 43

  

Cook County Health 8; Hospitals System

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

 

SPONSOR. EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: 
. Natasha Lafayette-Jones, System Director Healgf/ John Cookinha'm Systeg Chigfw Financial Officer,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Information Mgmt., 

DATE. SERVICE:
10/04/2012 3Service? Contracted Medical/B. cords Coding Staffing 3
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR SUPPLIER:
3Execute Contract Professional Dynamic Networ?PDN) Olympia Fi,elds IL
3 ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT: GRANT AMOUNT. 
. 890-260 $1,000,000.00 1 
(CONTRACT PERIOD: i CONTRACT NUMBER:
312/01/2012 thru 11/30/2015 
3 .3 COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
1 RFP
i NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
- 

 

 

 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:

Contract number was approved by the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board on July 29,
2010 in the amount of $54,000.00 for a period of 18 months from 07/27/2010 thru 11/26/2011. PDN has held
previous contracts for such services during FY 2000 through FY 2009. This vendor was contracted to provide
assistance for coding patient records in an effort to increase the cash flow as a stop gap to the ever growing amount
of patients discharged but not final billed.

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:

Professional Dynamic Network provides staffing to complete coding and maintain compliance of medical records with
respect to timely filing requirements. Recruiting for medical records staff was to begin but the need was greater than
expected and the recruitment process more challenging than anticipated. This service is necessary to continue to
keep billing more current.

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This request is to execute contract number H12a25-083 in the amount of $1,000,000.00 for a 36 month period from
12/01/2012 thru 11/30/2015.

 

 

 

 

 

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE:
ATTACHMENTS 
BID TABULATIONS: 1:013
CONTRACT COMPLEANCE MEMO: Yes

3



BY BOARD OF
COQS . . DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
Carol Schneider, System Chief Operating Officer HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
CEO ?t?r
Ram Raju D. Chief Executive?fficer Request 
1



- Ambulatory Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health 
John H. Stroger. Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital - Ruth NI.
Rothstein CORE Center .

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01/2011

Page 20 of 43

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT
EAHLEAN coums 151 Dist. PETER N. 51 LVESTRI 9m Dist.
ROBERT STEELE 2nd Dist. BRIDGET GAINER 10th Dist.
JERRY BUTLER 3rd JOHN P. DALEY 11th Dist.
WILLIAM M. DEAVERS 4m Dist JOHN A. FRITCHEV 12m D551.
DERDRAH suns 5m Dist LARRY MFREDIN 13m Dist.
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY cm Dist. GREGG GOSLEN um um.
JESUS G. GARCIA 7m Dist. TIMOTHY D. SCHNEIDER 15m Dist.
REYES em Dist. JEFREY RE Ism om.

ELIZABETH DOODY GORMM 17111 Dist.

October 31', 2012

Ms. Regina. Besenhofer

System Director

Supply Chain Management

Cook County Health and Hospital System
1900? West Polk Street

Chicago, IL 60612

Re: Contract No. 

Dear Ms. Besenhofer:

 

COOK COUNTY
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE

SHANNON ANDREWS
DIRECTOR

118 North Clark Street. Room 1020
Chicago, Illinois 60602-1304
TEL (312) 603-5502
FAX (312) 603?4547

The following bid for the above referenced contract has been reviewed for compliance with the General 
Conditions regarding the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance and has been found to
be responsive to the Ordinance supporting a 25% MBE and 10% goal.

Contractor: Professional Dynamic Network, Inc..
Using Dept: Hospital lnfonnation Services

Contract Amount: $1 

Description: Services - Outpatient Cod ing: Services
Term: 36 months

 

MBE Status Percentage of participation
Professional. Dynamic Network, lnc. County) 90% Direct

Davis Staffing County) 10% Direct

Sincerely,

(bow QJQL.

Shannon E. Andrews
Contract Compliance Director

SEA/pgb

news he

Cook County Health Hospitals System

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

 
 
 
  
  
 

    
     
    
    
   
    
     
       
    
 

   
 
 

SPONSOR: EXECUTIVE SPONSOR:
Jamie McPeek- - - 

John Cookinha ,Systern Chief'Fin ncial Of?cer,
Financial Services, - 

DATE: PRODUCT I senvrce: 
10/11/2012 Service - Temporary Staf?ng for - ntral Business Of?ce
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR SUPPLIER:

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Execute Contract The Washington Group, Chicago, IL
ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT: GRANT FUNDED RENEWAL AMOUNT:
890-260 $800,000.00 
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
12/01/2012 thru 1 1/30/2015 H12-25-086
SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
SELECTION METHODOLOGY:


 

 

   
 
 
    
   
      

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
The Washington Group has no prior contract history for this service with the Cook county Health and Hospitals

System..

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:

The revenue cycle is requesting dollars be set aside to hire temporary manpower to work down accounts receivable

. and accelerate cash ?ow. The ?scal budget has several line items that require immediate attention. Cash

2 Acceleration (Medicare and Medicaid 240 Days from Date-o -service) - over $42.000,000.00 was budgeted for
FY12 in this category. As of June 30. 2012, we have only collected approximately $17,000,000.00. Patient
Financial Services requires temporary manpower to work outpatient accounts that are not being effectively worked by
outside vendor. This service is not currently being performed; it is anticipated that the quicker claims resolution will
result in higher revenues and far fewer timely ?ling denials from payers. This is a split RFP award between Ajiion
and the Washington Group.

.0

 
  
    
 
     

  
 

i

 
    
    
    
        
 
  
    
   
    
 

rERus OF REQUEST: -
This request is to execute contract number in the amount of $80 EUO
thru 11/30/2015. . 

 

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: endin
.9 NOV 29 2012

 

ATTACHMENTS
. BID TABULATIONS: BY BOARD OF 
- RS OF THE COOK COUNTY
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE MEMO. Pending AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

  

  

COO:
Carol Schneider. Syst?m Chief Operating Officer

 

Request 
CEO: . I 2
Ram Raju, M.D., Chief Executive Of?odr .

- Ambulatory 8: Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Heaith -
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County . Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital - Ruth M.
Roths?tein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01/2011

Page 22 of 43

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

COOK COUNTY
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE

 

TONI PRECKWINKLE
PRESIDENT
Em SHANNON ANDREWS
LEAN COLLINS 1st Dist. men N. SILVESTRI 9m Dist. C10

STEELE 2nd Dist. BRIDGET GAINER 10th Dist. DIRE 
JERRY BUTLER 3m Dist. JOHN P. DALEY 11th Dist.
WILLIAM u. BEAVEFIS 41h Dist. JOHN A. 12m Dist. I 18 North Clark Street, Room 1020
35:31:: SIMS 5m Dist. LARRY SUFFREDIN 13m Dist. Chicago, Illinois 60602-1304

MURPHY cm Dist. ancc sosun 14th Dist.
JESUS c. GARCIA 7m Dist. TIMOTHY D. SCHNEIDER 15th Dist. TEL (312) 603-5502
EDWIN nevss Dist. JEFFREY rt. TDBoLsxi 15111 Dist. FAX (312) 6034547

ELEABETH lTllI Disl.

November 15, 2012

Ms. Regina Besenhofer

System Director

Supply Chain Management

Cook County Health 8: Hospitals System
1900 W. Polk Street

Chicago, IL 60612

Re: Contract No. 
Dear Ms. Besenhofer:

The following bid for the above referenced contract has been reviewed for compliance with the General
Conditions regarding the Minority and WomenOwned Business Enterprises Ordinance and has been found to
be compliant to the Ordinance supporting 25% Minority and 10% WBE participation.

Contractor: The Washington Group, 
User Department: Finance, 

Increase Amount: $800,000.00 - 

Description: Service Temporary Staffing for the Central Business Of?ce

Term: 36 months

The Washington Group, provided documentation to support its good faith efforts by utilizing several
female independent contractors who af?nn their status as independents by executing notarized
af?davits.

 

MBE Status Percentage of Participation
The Washington Group, Ltd. MBE-6 (OMS-DC) 100% Direct
Sincerely,

Kiwis/c.

Shannon E. Andrews
Contract Com pliance Director

SEA/pgb

Printed on inr

age 23 of 43

Cook County Health Hospitals System

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

EXECUTIVE SPONSOR:
Jamie McPeek-Johns- .. Director, Patient John Cookinham. Ahief Financial Of?cer,

Financial Services, CC 
DATE: PRODUCT I SERVICE:

10(11/2012 Service - Temporary Staffing for entral Business Office
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:

Execute Contract A?lon Professional Staffm. Olympia Fields, IL
ACCOUNT: . FISCAL IMPACT: GRANT FUNDED I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
890-260 $800.000.00 NIA

CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:

12101i2012 thru 11/302015 

SELECTION METHODOLOGY:



NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
Ajllon Professional Staf?ng has no prior contract history with Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION: .
The revenue cycle is requesting dollars be set aside to hire temporary manpower to work down accounts receivable
and accelerate cash flow. The ?scal budget has several line items that require immediate attention. Cash
Acceleration (Medicare and Medicaid 240 Days from Dated-service)? over $42 million was budgeted for FY12 in
. this category. As of June 30, 2012, we have only collected approximately $17 million. Patient Financial Services
I requires temporary manpower to work outpatient accounts that are not being effectively worked by outside vendor
This service is not currently being performed; it is anticipated that the quicker claims resolution will result in higher
revenues and far fewer timely ?ling denials from payers. This is a split RFP award between Ajiion and the

Washington Group.

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This request is to execute contract number in the amount of $800,000 over three years from 12I01i2012 

thru 11130/2015.

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: 

ATTACHMENTS
BID TABULATIONS: NIA 
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE MEMO: Pending 2 NOV 29 ?312

COUNTY 
COO: AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 

Carol Schneider, System Chief Operating Officer

 

 

CEO: i 
Ram Raju, MD, Chief Executive 069:3 Request 

 

0 Ambulatory 8: Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services . Department of Public Health 7-7
0 John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03f01/2D11

Page 24 of 43

 

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

COOK COUNTY
OFFICE OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE

 

TONI PRECKWINKLE


RESIDENT SHANNON ANDREWS
EARLEAN COLLINS 1s! Dist, PETER n, 9m Dist DIRECTOR
ROBERT STEELE 2nd Dist. GAINER 1cm Dist.
.15an BUTLER 3m Dist. mm DALEY 11m Dist.
WILLIAM M. 4m Dist. JOHN A. 12111 Dist. ?8 North Clark Street, Room 1020
SIMS 5m Dist LARRY SUFFREDIN 13m Dist. Chicago, Illinois 60602-1304
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY am Dist. sneer; eosun 14m Dist.
JESUS GARCIA 7m Dist. TIMOTHV o. SCHNEIDER 15m Dist. - . TEL (312) 603-5502
EDWIN REYES am JEFFREY a. TDBOLSKI 15m Dist. FAX (312) 6034547

ELIZABETH GORIIMH 1m Dist.

November 15 ,2012

Ms. Regina Besenhofer

System Director

Supply Chain Management

Cook County Health Hospitals System
1900 W. Polk Street

ChiCago, IL 60612

Re: Contract No. 1225-070

Dear Ms. Besenhofer:

The following bid for the above referenced contract has been reviewed for compliance with the General
Conditions regarding the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance and has been found to
be compliant to the Ordinance supporting 25% Minority and 10% WBE participation.

Contractor: Accounting Principles, Inc. dl/b/a Ajilon Professional Staf?ng
User Department: Finance, 

Increase Amount: $800,000.00

Description: Service Temporary Staffing for the Central Business Of?ce

Term: 36 months

Full WBE Waiver Granted:

met; Status Percentageof Participation

 

Professional Dynamic Network, Inc. MBE-S '(Cook County) 25% Direct
Sincerely,

Shannon E. Andrews
Contract Compliance Director

SEAlpgb

Printed on Recycled Paper

Page 25 of 43

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
November 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 26 of 43

 R-12-**
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PROPOSED RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
DAVID CARVALHO, CHAIR, JORGE RAMIREZ, VICE CHAIR,
THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, QUIN R. GOLDEN, EDWARD L. MICHAEL,
REV CALVIN S. MORRIS, PhD, LUIS MUNOZ, M.D., HEATHER E. O’DONNELL,
CARMEN VELASQUEZ AND DORENE P. WIESE, EdD, DIRECTORS
WHEREAS, Michael Puisis, D.O. began his medical career with the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System as an Intern at Cermak Health Services facility located at the Cook County Department of
Corrections after his graduation from the Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine in Chicago, Illinois in
1982; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Puisis grew in his career, rising through the trenches, first as a Resident, then an
Attending Physician, to eventually serving as Medical Director of Cermak Health Services until his
departure in 1996; and
.
WHEREAS, after his initial work at Cermak, Dr. Puisis served as a Correctional Services Medical
Director and a Consultant; he continued to be involved with organizations championing advocacy for the
underserved and institutionalized; and strived consistently to improve the quality of care in correctional
health care; and
WHEREAS, alone and with his peers Dr. Puisis drafted and published guidelines for the industry; he
served as a court-appointed monitor expert in prison litigation; and was awarded the esteemed National
Commission on Correctional Health Care's B. Jaye Anno Award of Excellence in Communication and
Society of Correctional Physician’s Armond Start Award of Excellence; and
WHEREAS, in 2006 through 2007 and again from 2009 through 2012, Dr. Puisis returned to Cermak
Health Services to serve the residents of Cook County. He was charged with creating a plan to navigate
Cermak’s adherence to the Department of Justice’s Agreed Order. In his capacity as the Chief Operating
Officer for Cermak Health Services he spearheaded various innovative initiatives including an automated
medication delivery system, a functional access to care program, and a true electronic medical record; and
WHEREAS, on November 30, 2012, Dr. Michael Puisis is retiring from Cook County service, having
worked in the field of Correctional Health for over 30 years. His vision of correctional health care as a

vital link in the public health system was embodied in his leadership of Cermak Health Services
and will well outlast the time he spent with the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County served by the System,
does hereby gratefully acknowledge Dr. Michael Puisis for his extraordinary abilities, outstanding
leadership and unwavering commitment to the underserved and institutionalized, and access to quality
medical care. We wish him the best of luck in his future endeavors.

Page 27 of 43

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
November 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 28 of 43

 11/29/12   

CountyCare – CCHHS Board Update
November 29, 2012

Outline
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Overview- Office of Managed Care (OMC)
Eligibility
Covered Services
CountyCare Network
Infrastructure
Enrollment/Documentation
Clinical Transformation PCMH
Reimbursement & IT
Measuring and Rewarding Quality
1115 Demonstration Evaluation
Q&A
2

1   
Page 29 of 43

 11/29/12   

Overview – OMC
• 

Responsibilities
–  Build Health Plan
–  MCO Agreements
–  Clinical Transformation

• 

Current Staffing

• 

Future Staffing

3

Eligibility
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Live in Cook County
Be 19-64 years old
Have income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty
Level ($14,856 individual, $20,123 couple - annually)
Not be eligible for “state Plan” Medicaid (parent,
pregnant, blind or receiving disability income)
Not be eligible for Medicare
Be a legal immigrant for five years or more or a US
citizen
Have a Social Security number or have applied for one

Note: No asset test.
Note: Although most persons who have been adjudicated as disabled for SSI, SSDI purposes
are ineligible, those with income above Medicaid levels (100-133% FPL) and those with assets
above Medicaid levels can enroll in CountyCare
4

2   
Page 30 of 43

 11/29/12   

Covered Services
Services   
•  Sub-acute alcoholism and substance use
disorder services

•  Hospital emergency room visits
•  Hospital inpatient services
•  Hospital ambulatory services
•  Nursing Facility Services (30 days) (covers
post-hospitalization nursing home stays)

•  Mental Health Services (including
rehabilitation and clinic option)

•  Physician services

•  Medical supplies, equipment, prostheses and
orthoses, and respiratory equipment and
supplies

•  Advanced Practice Nurse services

•  Home health agency visits

•  Laboratory and x-ray services

•  Hospice (and palliative)

•  Prescription Drugs
•  Family planning services and supplies

•  Physical, Occupational, Hearing and Speech
Therapy Services

•  Podiatric Services (for diabetics)

•  Transportation - to secure Covered Services

•  EPSDT (for 19-21 year olds)

•  Dental (for 19-21 yrs only)

•  Emergency Services (includes poststabilization services)

•  Targeted Case Management
•  FQHCs, RHCs and other Encounter rate clinic
visits
5

CountyCare Network
• 

Patient Centered Medical Home sites (PCMH)

• 

Pharmacy Benefit Manager

• 

Behavioral Health Manager

• 

Additional RFQ will be issued to expand
participation of providers that serve this
population and will include specialty, ancillary and
hospital based services that CCHHS doesn’t offer
and to supplement access.
6

3   
Page 31 of 43

 11/29/12   

Administrative Infrastructure
• 

Waiver subject to certain MCO regulations

• 

AHS-CEA Division of Responsibilities
–  Enrollment

§  AHS, CEA, FQHCs, CCHHS

–  Call Centers, Member Services, Provider Relations, Webpage &
portals, Claims, Referral Tracking, Utilization Management
§  AHS

–  Network Development, Manage PBM & BHM
§  CCHHS

–  Manage Monthly Reconciliation, Track Costs, Reporting
§  CCHHS & AHS

• 

MHN Connect

7

Methods to Enroll
• Two steps to apply
- Provide verbal answers to application questions
- Submit verification documents

• Four methods to apply
- In person - with CCHHS Application Assistance staff located at all
CCHHS facilities (ACHN and inpatient)
- In person – with staff at CountyCare FQHCs
- By phone – call CountyCare
8 Hours M-F 8-8, Sat 9-2
8 312-864-8200 or 1-855-444-1661
- By mail – submit written answers for application questions and
verification documents to CCHHS Application Assistance staff
- FQHC Enrollment

• Status of DHS/OnPoint
8

4   
Page 32 of 43

 11/29/12   

Required Documents
Consistent with Medicaid requirements,
•  Identity – driver’s license, state id card, birth certificate, work id,
school id card, US military card, etc.
•  Citizenship – birth certificate, military record of service, hospital
record of birth on hospital letterhead, medical records, written
affidavits (as a last resort); or immigration status – certificate of
naturalization, certificate of citizenship, arrival-departure record,
naturalization papers, permanent resident card, etc.
•  Address in Cook County –current lease agreement, rent receipt,
mortgage receipt, utility bill, letter from local shelter
•  Income – from employment and all other sources – pay stubs,
monthly statements,
•  Optional - for those wishing to take advantage of income deductions
– proof of child or spousal support paid or proof of payments for care
of a child or disabled adult
•  Optional - for those without an SSN, proof of application for an SSN
•  A signed attestation page
9

10

5   
Page 33 of 43

 11/29/12   

More on Enrollment
• 

Priority Enrollment/PCMH Selection

• 

Member Incentives

• 

Challenges

11

Relationship to CareLink
• 

CountyCare has sparked review of CareLink P&P

• 

What happens during screening

• 

What happens if denied CountyCare

• 

Differences in requirements

12

6   
Page 34 of 43

 11/29/12   

Clinical Transformation PCMH
• 

PCMH roll out over 2013

• 

PCMH trainings

–  Vista (Palatine), Logan Sq, GMC, Englewood, OFHC

–  5 sites
§  44 PCPs
§  60 add’l staff

–  Webinar-based module for RN/LPNs care mgmt
–  1 day monthly session for new staff “Orientation to
PCMH”

• 

Hiring over 200 new staff including physicians

13

Reimbursement & IT

•  3 buckets of waiver revenue
§ PMPM
§ Retroactive
§ Admin Claiming
14

7   
Page 35 of 43

 11/29/12   

Nov 2012

Dec 2012

Feb 2013

Jan 2013

Retroactive period Nov-Jan FFS

March 2013

PMPM begins Feb 1st

Example: Application submitted Feb 13
and Approved April 1

15

Reimbursement & IT
• 

Claims flow

• 

Reconciliation

• 

Monthly Reporting

16

8   
Page 36 of 43

 11/29/12   

17

Measuring Quality
• 

AHS can report based on claims – HEDIS, 7 day
follow-ups, etc

• 

MHN “actionable” data

• 

P4P Measures – Diabetes, Preventive, Asthma,
BH, Access

18

9   
Page 37 of 43

 11/29/12   

1115 Demonstration Evaluation
Types of questions evaluation is intended to address

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

How has the demonstration bridged the gap in moving toward Medicaid
coverage required under the Affordable Care Act;
How has the demonstration addressed unmet healthcare needs and
provided a regular source of coordinated care for enrollees;
How has the demonstration informed the state’s progress in
understanding the service utilization and costs to prepare for 2014;
How effective have the PCMHs been in providing high-quality, coordinated
care? (The state must propose quality measures that would be used to
evaluate the effectiveness of the PCMHs);
How has the demonstration informed the state’s payment methodology
as it prepares establish capitated rates for its entire Medicaid population.
The limitations, challenges, opportunities and best practices in provider
capacity and care delivery for the demonstration population to aid in
preparation for coverage expansions pursuant to the Affordable Care Act.
Trends in beneficiary needs for the demonstration population to aid in
preparation for coverage expansions pursuant to the Affordable Care Act.
19

Questions

20

10   
Page 38 of 43

 CRITERA: ages 19-64; LOL, self pay, fin assist 1; US citizen or unknown
Number of Unique Patient in 2011 with:
an   ACHN   Primary   Care   Visit   in   2011
-with an ACHN specialty care visit in 2011
-with an ACHN screening visit in 2011
-with an ED/Obs visit in 2011
-with an Inpatient visit in 2011
-with a NonACHN visit in 2011
-with a CORE Center visit in 2011
-with only an ACHN Primary Care visit type in 2011

Estimated Waiver
Population (80% of
Potential)
38,907
14,054
36.1%
2,538
6.5%
8,616
22.1%
3,174
8.2%
11,772
30.3%
348
0.9%
15,854
40.7%

Potential   Waiver   
Population                                          
(includes   income   up   
to   250%   poverty)
                     48,634
   
17,568 36.12%
3,172 6.52%
10,770 22.15%
3,967 8.16%
14,715 30.26%
435 0.89%
19,818 40.75%

an   ACHN   Specialty   Care   Visit   in   2011
-with an ACHN primary care visit in 2011
-with an ACHN screening visit in 2011
-with an ED/Obs visit in 2011
-with an Inpatient visit in 2011
-with a NonACHN visit in 2011
-with a CORE Center visit in 2011
-with only an ACHN Specialty Care visit type in 2011

39,525
14,054
4,186
12,495
3,778
15,506
904
9,496

35.6%
10.6%
31.6%
9.6%
39.2%
2.3%
24.0%

                     49,406
   
17,568
5,233
15,619
4,722
19,383
1,130
11,870

35.56%
10.59%
31.61%
9.56%
39.23%
2.29%
24.03%

an   ACHN   Screening   Visit   in   2011   
-with an ACHN primary care visit in 2011
-with an ACHN specialty care visit in 2011
-with an ED/Obs visit in 2011
-with an Inpatient visit in 2011
-with a NonACHN visit in 2011
-with a CORE Center visit in 2011
-with only an ACHN Screening visit type

12,202
2,538
4,186
3,826
660
2,912
306
4,557

31.4%                      15,252
   
6.5%
3,172
10.8%
5,233
9.8%
4,783
1.7%
825
7.5%
3,640
0.8%
383
11.7%
5,696

20.80%
34.31%
31.36%
5.41%
23.87%
2.51%
37.35%

an   ED/Obs   Visit   in   2011
-with an ACHN primary care visit in 2011
-with an ACHN specialty care visit in 2011
-with an ACHN screening visit in 2011
-with an Inpatient visit in 2011
-with a NonACHN visit in 2011
-with a CORE Center visit in 2011
-with only an ED/Obs visit type

58,462
8,616
12,495
3,826
2,938
6,886
948
37,408

                     73,077
   
10,770
15,619
4,783
3,673
8,607
1,185
46,760

14.74%
21.37%
6.55%
5.03%
11.78%
1.62%
63.99%

an   Inpatient   Visit   in   2011
-with an ACHN primary care visit in 2011
-with an ACHN specialty care visit in 2011
-with an ACHN screening visit in 2011

8,168
3,174
3,778
660

Page 39 of 43

14.7%
21.4%
6.5%
5.0%
11.8%
1.6%
64.0%

                     10,210
   
38.9%
3,967 38.85%
46.2%
4,722 46.25%
8.1%
825 8.08%

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
November 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #6

Page 40 of 43

  
RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
November 29, 2012 
 
FY2013 BUDGET PROCESS 
On November 9, 2012 the County Board approved the FY 2013 Budget.  The final budget for the Health 
System  is  $963,685,515.  There  were  six  amendments  that  touched  the  Health  System.    One  of  the 
amendments funded activities dedicated to violence prevention, intervention and reductions programs 
in  the  amount  of  two  million  dollars  primarily  from  Department  896  –  1115  Waiver  Demonstration 
Project professional services account.  The agreement for this amendment was made possible because 
of the County’s commitment to the expedited hiring process for the 1115 Waiver.  Another amendment 
worthy of note deleted a position for special legal assistance to the Commissioners and added a clinical 
nurse position to Stroger Hospital.  The detailed Amendment Report is attached. 
 
PUBLIC HEALTH UPDATE 
The Cook County Department of Public Health continues on its path toward accreditation.  Documents 
that have been selected are being reviewed by a team of staff and managers who did not participate in 
the selection process to validate the documents. The agency is on target for the mock survey in February 
2013.  
The Community Preparedness and Coordination Unit (CPCU) completed the All Hazards Plan for Public 
Health  to  address  preparedness  activities.  The  CPCU  team  conducted  training  on  the  First  Responder 
Dispensing Plan in collaboration with the Cook County MABAS (Mutual Aid Box Alarm System) Divisions.  
The  Communicable  Disease  and  Control  Unit  has  been  continuously  working  with  the  Centers  for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Illinois Department of Public Health, and Chicago Department of Public 
Health  in  the  investigation  of  fungal  meningitis  cases  associated  with  steroid  injections  given  at  APAC 

Page 41 of 43

 Centers  for  Pain  Management  in  Cook  County  using  a  preservative  free  steroid  preparation  from  the 
New England Compounding Center (NECC). Active surveillance continues on patients who received the 
identified lot numbers.  
The  Communicable  Disease  Control  Unit  is  conducting  active  surveillance  of  influenza  activity  from 
sentinel  sites  including  Ambulatory  and  Community  Health  Network  sites  in  suburban  Cook  County. 
CCDPH  staff  was  co‐authors  on  a  study  regarding  Rotavirus  outbreaks  in  retirement  communities 
published in the Annals of Internal Medicine (Volume 157; Issue 9) to address risk factors and control 
measures.  
The  Integrated  Health  Support  Services  Unit/Public  Health  Nurses  continue  to  provide  support  to  the 
CCHHS  Employee  Health  Services  to  administer  flu  vaccine  to  both  Cook  County  Health  and  Hospital 
System employees and Cook County employees. 
 
CAP AND AABB INSPECTION OF JOHN STROGER LABORATORY 
The College of American Pathologists (CAP) Laboratory Accreditation and American Association of Blood 
Banks  (AABB)  Accreditation  culminated  with  a  one  day  inspection  of  Stroger  Medical  Laboratories  on 
Wednesday, October 17th and an inspection of the Blood Bank on Friday, October 19th (Blood Bank CAP 
&  AABB  inspection).    The  peer  inspection  was  performed  by  the  lead  pathologist  and  ten  other 
laboratory professionals from St John’s Mercy Medical Center of St Louis.  The Blood Bank was inspected 
by a pathologist and Blood Bank Manager from Texas and St Louis. 
The inspection was guided by the CAP checklist questions organized by specific laboratory disciplines, as 
well as general questions related to proficiency testing, quality management, human resources, space, 
etc.  All clinical laboratories were inspected and went very well!  Considering the complexity of our test 
menus,  and  the  thousands  of  checklist  questions,  the  number  of  deficiencies  was  small  (8  phase  II,  1 
phase I and one AABB nonconformance.)  All deficiencies have been evaluated and responded to with 
required  documentation.    The  responses  will  be  reviewed  by  CAP  technical  specialists,  a  CAP  regional 
commissioner, and an accreditation committee before any accreditation decision is issued.  We have full 
confidence that accreditation will be achieved. 
At the end of the inspection, the CAP team leader and the team of inspectors summarized their findings 
to a large group of hospital and lab representatives.   Inspector comments included: “The laboratory has 
2   P a g e  
 

Page 42 of 43

 made  substantial  improvements  and  corrected  prior  recurring  deficiencies.    Leadership  is  visibly 
involved in day‐to‐day laboratory operations and works cohesively as a team.  There is  a high level  of 
medical  staff  respect  and  support  for  the  laboratory  operation.      Quality  Control  processes  and 
procedures are excellent.  The lab is well run and well organized.”  I want to thank Joanne Dulski, System 
Laboratory for her leadership and congratulate her entire team. 
 
AIDS FOUNDATION OF CHICAGO IMPACT AWARD 
On Thursday, November 1st the AIDS Foundation of Chicago (AFC) awarded Cermak Health Services the 
AFC  Impact  Award  at  the  2012  AFC  Annual  Meeting.    Cermak  received  this  honor  as  a  result  of  every 
individual  who  enters  Cook  County  Jail  being  offered  opt‐out  HIV  testing  and  counseling  services,  and 
linked to high quality care through Cermak Health Services or a community partner upon release.  AFC 
recognized the work to expand HIV test and care services and help prevent the spread of HIV that will 
touch thousands of lives with in the correctional system and throughout metropolitan Chicago.  I want 
to  thank  Dr.  Michael  Puisis,  his  vision  of  correctional  health  care  as  a  vital  link  in  the  public  health 
system was embodied in his leadership of Cermak Health Services and will well outlast the time he spent 
with the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.  
 
RECOGNITION 
Martha Webb, Stroger Hospital 
A few weeks ago, an outpatient needed direction to Clinic "H".  Earlier last week this patient called to 
explain how helpful everyone at Stroger had been to her and in particular Martha Webb.  Martha went 
the extra mile to assist the patient when she needed to find out when her next appointment was and 
with whom.  The patient could not say enough nice things about Martha and the entire staff at Stroger 
Hospital.  Thank you Martha for your commitment and care to our patients and the example you’ve set. 

3   P a g e  
 

Page 43 of 43

 