Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, January
24, 2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Lewis
M. Collens; Ada Mary Gugenheim; Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Carmen Velasquez and
Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (8)

Present
Telephonically:

Director M. Hill Hammock (1)

Absent:

Directors Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD and Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH (2)

Chairman Carvalho stated that Director Hammock was unable to be physically present, but was able to participate in
the meeting telephonically.
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to allow Director
Hammock to participate as a voting member for this meeting telephonically. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Hammock confirmed his presence telephonically.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Anna Ashcraft – Director of the Real Estate
Management Division of the Cook County
Bureau of Economic Development
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply
Chain Management
Catherine Deamant, MD – Assistant Director of
Palliative Care Services
Claudia Fegan, MD - Executive Medical
Director/Medical Director Stroger Hospital
Kevin Frey – Senior Labor and Employment
Counsel

II.

Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Joyce Schoonover - Director of Risk Management
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical
Integration
Linda Diamond Shapiro – Chief Strategy Officer
Ozuru Ukoha, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County

Public Speakers
Prior to calling upon the public speakers, Chairman Carvalho provided a few comments. He stated that, as
mentioned in the news recently, Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), has been offered the position of
President of the New York Health and Hospitals Corporation in New York; it is anticipated that his appointment to
that position will be approved and confirmed, and he will be leaving the System at some point in the near future.

Page 1 of 35

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 24, 2014
Page 2

II.

Public Speakers (continued)
Chairman Carvalho stated that, for the moment, the Board will be focusing upon the fact that, upon Dr. Raju’s
departure, the System will need an interim CEO and a permanent CEO - the Board will discuss those processes
later in the meeting. He noted that there have been a couple of misstatements in the press, and clarified the
following details. The Ordinance that created this Board charged this Board with the responsibility of securing the
CEO, as well as the other employees. There is no process beyond this Board; for example, there was a news story
that said that this Board’s selection of the CEO is then submitted to the County Board - that is incorrect, this Board
hires the CEO. Also, to the extent that the news stories said that the County Board or the County Board President
recruited Dr. Raju, that is also incorrect; in fact, under the Shakman Decree, no political considerations are to be
made in the selection of the CEO or any employees of the System. All of the employees of the System are covered
by the Shakman Decree.
Chairman Carvalho stated that, today, the Board has a regularly scheduled meeting with many items. The Board
will consider the items on the Agenda, and toward the end of the meeting the Board will have a closed session; this
was a regularly scheduled closed session which, in itself, had many items for discussion, so it was planned to be
somewhat lengthy. During that part of the meeting, the Board will also be talking about the interim CEO process
and the permanent CEO process; it is expected that this will be a substantially long closed session. At the
conclusion of that closed session, if there are any actions for the Board to take, those actions would all be taken in
open session; the Board would reconvene in open session and take those actions, and then they would adjourn the
meeting. If there is anything that members of the press in particular would like to ask of Dr. Raju or Chairman
Carvalho, they would be available for that purpose following the adjournment of the meeting.
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.
2.

III.

George Blakemore Concerned Citizen
Jonathan Plett
Retired Social Worker

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, December 13, 2013
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Board of Directors Meeting of December 13, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, December 19, 2013
Director Collens referenced the information on vacancies contained in the Minutes. He stated that it would
be good if the Board can receive information about the number of vacancies existing at the beginning and
end of the period; this will be helpful to understand the activity during that time period. Chairman Carvalho
added that, for the first time this information is presented, the Board should probably talk about vacancies in
general, how vacancies are used in the budgeting process, and what process is used to prioritize vacancies. 1
Also, when that information is included in the report, it is important to not assume that, for example, if the
number of vacancies was 765, that there was either an intent or an imperative to have 765 vacancies filled by
the end of that period, and anything less than that was somehow off-track; vacancies play a different role at
the System than they do in many different institutions.
Page 2 of 35

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 24, 2014
Page 3

III.

Board and Committee Reports
B. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, December 19, 2013 (continued)
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of December 19, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, January 17, 2014
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of January 17, 2014.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, January 17, 2014
 Contracts and Procurement Items (detail was provided as attachment to Board Agenda)
During the presentation of the Minutes, Chairman Carvalho indicated that the January Finance Committee
was the last meeting for its non-Director Member, Mr. Don Oder. At that meeting, Chairman Carvalho,
Finance Chairman Butler and the Committee Members thanked Mr. Oder for his service and dedication.
During his time with the Committee, Mr. Oder provided real insights and great suggestions on ways that the
System could improve the financial reports, to make them more helpful and meaningful.
Chairman Carvalho stated that, at the meeting, there were requests for additional information for the request
to extend and increase the contract with NuCare Services Corporation for long- and short-term care services.
Chairman Carvalho provided an overview of the history on the matter. When a person is ready to be
discharged from the hospital, they are sometimes not ready to be sent home; either a skilled nursing facility
or an intermediate care facility is the appropriate place for them to go. When this Board had concluded that
Oak Forest Hospital should be reconfigured as a health center, one of the things taken into account in that
decision was, theretofore, Oak Forest had played that role as a nursing care facility for some of the patients
discharged from the hospitals, and an alternative to that would be needed if Oak Forest was to no longer
offer beds for long-term care. The need for services are for those persons who need that type of care but are
not eligible for Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement and therefore would have a hard time finding a facility
that would take them. There are very few beds available for unsupported residents in any of those types of
facilities, which are largely for-profit or commercial facilities. Since those services were discontinued at
Oak Forest, the Board has secured services at a variety of vendors.
More recently, there was a Request for Bids (RFP) process that led to the selection of vendors to provide
nursing care, both in the short-term and long-term category; this was not a type of procurement where it is
sent out for bids and awarded to the vendor with the lowest price, because there is enormous quality
variation in this industry. There was a qualitative component, and the clinical persons within the
organization were deeply involved in the review and selection process; there is continuing involvement of
clinical persons from this organization in monitoring persons in the sites that have been selected. There is
also a certain sense that these types of services are something that should be procured under a somewhat
longer term contract – the organization does not want annual contracts where it is moving its patients from
place to place simply because a vendor has submitted a slightly lower bid.

Page 3 of 35

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 24, 2014
Page 4

III.

Board and Committee Reports
D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, January 17, 2014 (continued)
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, provided additional information. She
stated that, under this contract, there are two different types of payment for services rendered: 1) skilled
nursing services, which include intravenous (IV) antibiotics, wound care and sub-acute rehabilitation
services; and 2) custodial care, which is needed for those patients who have no one available to care for them
and they cannot care for themselves – this includes room, board and medications. The System has thirty-five
to forty patients of that type at any point in time; this also includes hospice care. The tiered level of care
pricing is within the contract itself; some of the services can be bundled together so that the cost model is
different, depending on what services are needed at that point in time for the patient. The custodial care rate
is a flat rate.
Ms. Besenhofer stated that, with regard to the question of whether the rates have increased, they increased
throughout the life of the contract by two percent each year; last year, they were increased per the contract
language by two percent. However, for this extension, the prices have not been increased another two
percent, so they are staying the same rate as last year’s rates. Ms. Besenhofer added that the vendor is a
privately held for-profit company.
With regard to contract monitoring, Ms. Besenhofer stated that this is administered and managed by a
registered nurse with thirty years of experience; this individual was the intake coordinator at Oak Forest.
With regard to quality of care monitoring, this is reviewed on a continuing basis. Members of staff are in the
process of formalizing the evaluations that have to come back on a quarterly basis for a service such as this.
Director Collens inquired whether the reporting process will be folded into the new internal quality
committee as a part of the new committee’s role. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief of Clinical Integration, stated
that Ms. Besenhofer has coordinated over one thousand current ongoing System contracts; staff will need to
go over that entire list to identify those that have clinical services involved. There is a requirement that those
clinical services, quality metrics, and performance on those metrics are reviewed annually by the Executive
Medical Staff – this would then flow up through the Quality and Patient Safety Committee.
Director Lerner indicated that he has more than a passing interest and history with some of these facilities; he
added that, to be transparent, his wife’s company, which she just left, used to service many of these
corporations, from a therapy point of view. He stated that he would be interested, as the System moves
forward with the RFP, to offer his assistance in thinking through the matter. In addition to the other issues
mentioned, including the establishment of criteria, cost, quality, utilization incentives and penalties, to him,
the real key is the linkage between the System’s medical staff and the medical staff attending to those
patients in those facilities; as the System gets into bundling and other types of risk-based contracts, it is
going to become critical.
Chairman Carvalho stated that, as he mentioned at the Finance Committee Meeting, with regard to the
question of who is not eligible for Medicare or Medicaid and the reason why the System needs this contract,
the answer is that there are people who are not eligible for those programs for a number of reasons - one of
the principal reasons is that they may be undocumented. The System is not hiding that fact; rather, it is
embracing that fact – the System provides services to all without regard to ability to pay or citizenship, so
this is part of its responsibility, and that is why it has this contract to fulfill it.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Wiese, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of January 17, 2014.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 4 of 35

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 24, 2014
Page 5

IV.

Action Items
A. Contracts and Procurement Items
There were no Contracts and Procurement Items presented directly for the Board’s consideration under this
item.
B. Proposed Amendments to the Bylaws of the Medical Staff of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County (Attachment #1)
Dr. Ozuru Ukoha, President of the Executive Medical Staff of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County,
presented the proposed Amendments to the Bylaws of the Medical Staff of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County. He provided an overview of the proposed changes. The Board reviewed and discussed the
information.
Chairman Carvalho noted that the System General Counsel has reviewed these proposed Amendments and
has found them to be satisfactory.
Director Butler referenced one of the proposed amendments that updates the reference to Oak Forest Health
Center, which was formerly Oak Forest Hospital; he was concerned about the average person’s understanding
of this change presented today, which was simply a technical update to the Bylaws language but could be
misinterpreted as a change in services being provided. Dr. Shannon remarked that the changes that Director
Butler is alluding to are problems with communications. He stated that improvements need to be made on
that campus with signage, way-finding, public access and better communications to the community around it
of the services provided and during what hours. He stated that some improvements have been made with the
signage; staff will continue to work on the other issues.
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Collens, moved the approval of the proposed
Amendments to the Bylaws of the Medical Staff of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

D. Second Amendment to Intergovernmental Agreement between the County of Cook and the Forest
Preserve District of Cook County - the Intergovernmental Agreement pertains to a joint planning
initiative to provide for cooperation and to prepare plans for the development of 175 acres of new
forest preserve land adjacent to Oak Forest Health Center that was formerly owned by Cook County
(Attachment #2)
Anna Ashcraft, Director of the Real Estate Management Division of the Cook County Bureau of Economic
Development, presented the item for the Board’s consideration. Chairman Carvalho noted that the System
Board is not a party to this Agreement; he indicated that, formerly, what has been requested is that this Board
concur with the approval of the agreement.
Director Velasquez, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to concur with the approval of
the Second Amendment to the Intergovernmental Agreement between the County of Cook
and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 5 of 35

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 24, 2014
Page 6

IV.

Action Items (continued)
E.

Proposed amendment to Contract #H13-25-033 with Quick Leonard
search services (Attachment #3)

Kieffer,

Inc.

for

executive

Note: the Board took action on this item following the adjournment of closed session.
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Collens, moved to approve the proposed
amendment to Contract #H13-25-033 with Quick Leonard Kieffer, Inc. for executive search
services. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Chairman Carvalho provided an overview of the establishment of the Cook County Health Foundation ; he also
provided an update on its activities. The Foundation was established several years ago to create an opportunity
for philanthropic giving to the benefit of the System. It was seeded with some money received from this Board,
and has received one gift to date. Its Board is currently forming itself and forming its strategy. The Chair of the
Foundation Board is Warren Batts, the former Chairman of this Board. In the last month, Chairman Carvalho
met with Mr. Batts to catch up on the recent activities of the Foundation. Chairman Carvalho noted that, even
though they are an independent foundation, independent from the System Board and the Cook County Board,
sometimes it is an unusual ask to many philanthropic people to provide money that is for the benefit of a
governmental institution. The Foundation Board is working on finding the best complement of additional board
members to serve on the Foundation Board, and the best strategy for seeking contributions to the Foundation.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #4)
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: County Care Section 1115 Medicaid Waiver Demonstration
Project/Managed Care; Project Management Office; and Recognition of Employees. The Board reviewed and
discussed the information.
Chairman Carvalho referenced a meeting held yesterday with representatives of the Chicago Consulting Alliance.
At the meeting, he spoke with John Cooke, from the Cook County Office of Capital Planning and Policy, regarding
a presentation that is expected to be presented to this Board in February, relating to the proposals for the architect to
guide the Stroger Hospital Campus Redevelopment Project. With regard to Director Gugenheim’s question
regarding communications between the Illinois Medical District Commission and those institutions within its
district, Dr. Raju stated that there are monthly meetings of the CEOs of the institutions within the Illinois Medical
District; the System’s administration brings matters to the System Board regarding whatever may be impacting the
System. He added that, if the Board chooses, they can have a periodic report on the activities happening around the
System. Chairman Carvalho agreed and welcomed the offer for periodic reporting on this subject.

A. Report from the Chief Strategy Officer (Attachment #5)
Linda Diamond Shapiro, Chief Strategy Officer, provided an update on the following subjects: Strategy and
External Affairs Priorities; Organizational Chart; Goals; Examples of Recent Key Actions; Key Future Steps;
and 4Ps Looking Forward. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.

Page 6 of 35

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 24, 2014
Page 7

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer
A. Report from the Chief Strategy Officer (continued)
Vice Chairman Ramirez suggested for future reports on this subject that reference be made regarding service
and care; he added that the employees and their representatives should be part of this communication and
outreach effort, as well, and should be integrated into the plan. Director Wiese referenced the earlier
comments regarding communications; she stated that employee and patient communications are crucial, and
have to be a component in this.
Chairman Carvalho made one more point about the transition in CEOs. He stated that sometimes, there is a
change in the leadership of an organization because the Board of Directors wants to go in a different direction clearly this transition is not being occasioned by that. This Board is committed to the direction that it has been
heading, with the leadership, insights and planning of Dr. Raju; the goal of the transition is to continue that
direction going forward. He encouraged those who are enthused and excited about the current direction and
plans of the System to remain committed to that, because the Board remains committed to that.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. Discussion of personnel matters
C. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, January 17, 2014
D. Appointment of Interim Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(confidential personnel matter)
Director Collens, seconded by Director Lerner, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body
to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action
against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a
court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of
reserves or settlement of claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental
Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim
might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk management
information, records, data, advice or communications from or with respect to any insurer of
the public body or any intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance
pool of which the public body is a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the
recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health
care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated
by the public body.”

Page 7 of 35

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 24, 2014
Page 8

VII.

Closed Session Items (continued)
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Collens,
Gugenheim, Hammock, Lerner, Velasquez and Wiese (9)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Directors Morris and Muñoz (2)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened
into regular session.
Chairman Carvalho, seconded by Director Lerner, made the following motion: pursuant to
the authority granted this Board of Directors in Sections 38-80 and 38-81 of the Cook County
Ordinance Establishing the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, and in light of the
pending resignation of Dr. Ram Raju as the Chief Executive Officer of the Health System,
move to appoint Dr. John Jay Shannon as the Interim Chief Executive Officer and to convey
upon him all the authority and responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer to ensure a
smooth transition of leadership; and further move that this appointment be effective upon the
date of Dr. Raju’s resignation and terminate upon the date a newly appointed Chief Executive
Officer commences service. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared the MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 8 of 35

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, January 24, 2014
Page 9

1

Follow-up: for future Human Resources Committee Meeting Information was requested to be included on the number of vacancies existing at the beginning and end of
the period (this will be helpful to understand the activity during that time period).
Also, for the first time this information is presented, the Board should talk about vacancies in general, how
vacancies are used in the budgeting process, and what process is used to prioritize vacancies. Page 2.

Page 9 of 35

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
January 24, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 10 of 35

  

Bylaws of the Medical Staff of John H. Stroger, Ir. Hospital of Cook County

Proposed Bylaw Amendments
9 ll' .
Deletions

DEFINITIONS

EXECUTIVE OFFICER: The Chief Executive Officer of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System.

Reason - Bylaws consistently refer to just Chief Executive Of?cer.

SYSTEM AFFILIATE One of the Af?liates of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
which include: the John H. Stroger, Ir. Hospital ofCook County, Provident Hospital of Cook

County, Ambulatory and Community Health Network of
Cook County, the CORE Center Cermak Health Services ofCook County, and the Cook County

Department of Public Health.

Reason Oak Forest Hospital no longer exists.

ARTICLE V: PROCEDURE FOR APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT
SECTION 3. EXPEDITED INITIAL APPOINTMENT AND REAPPOINTMENT

e. Notwithstanding that an Applicant or Member meets the standards for expedited initial
appointment or expedited reappointment under this Section, either the Department Chair, the

Credentials Committee, the Executive Medical Staff Committee, the President, the Medical Director, the
Chief Operating Of?cer MW the Bureau Chief Executive Of?cer, or the Board may
require that an application for initial appointment or reappointment be processed as set forth in Section 1,
Application For Initial Appointment, or Section 2, A li o'ntm nt ofthis Article

Reason ?New title for Chief Operating Officer; Bureau 0 APBRIROVED

ARTICLE IX: OFFICERS

 

 

.1: r21 1 1
SECTION 6. DUTIES OF OFFICER JAM :7 4 ?4
a. President
COUNTY
0? ., u?uu? 1? no I 'u?u 3:1; "?nd asEx-

of?cio member of all other Medical Staff committees;
Reason Additional duty.

ARTICLE X: COMPOSITION AND DUTIES OF THE EXECUTIVE MEDICAL STAFF COMMITTEE
SECTION 1. COMPOSITION

a. The Executive Medical Staff Committee shall include:

two members each from the Departments of Obstetrics/ Gynecology and Pediatrics and one
member each from the Departments of Anesthesiology Wm Correctional Health

Services, Family Medicine Pathology, Radiology and
Trauma andliums;

Page 1 of 6

Page 11 of 35

Reason - Corrects Department names.

ARTICLE XI: OTHER MEDICAL STAFF COMMITTEES
SECTION 3. BLOOD BANK AND TRANSFUSION COMMITTEE
a. Composition

The Blood Bank and Transfusion Committee shall consist ofthe Director ofthe Transfusion Service, one
representative of the Hospital administration appointed by the Chief Operating Of?cer mm
Semices, one Member each from the Departments of Anesthes1ology mim?nmw, Obstetrics
and Gynecology, and Trauma and_B_urns and one (1) Member each from the Divisions of Hematology and
Pediatric Hematology, and two (2) Members from the Department of Surgery

Reason Corrects Department names.

Section 5. CANCER COMMITTEE
a. Composition

The Cancer Committee shall consist of the Chairs of the Divisions of Adult Hematoiogy, Medical Oncology,
Pediatric Hematology, Gynecologic Oncology, Nuclear Medicine, Radiation Therapy, and Surgical
Oncology, the supervisor of the Tumor Registry and eight Members from among the Departments of

Radiology, Family Medicine, Nursin ,Sur er ,the


Division of Gynecology and from Rehabilitation Services Social Services and Quality Assurance.

Reason Corrects Department name.

Section 7. CRITICAL CARE COMMITTEE
a. Composition

The Critical Care Committee shall consist of the Chairs of the Departments of Emergency Medicine,
Trauma and Anesthesiology Wm, the Chair of the Division of Pediatric
Emergency Services, the directors of all intensive care units and representatives of Hospital
Administration, Nursing, and other appropriate Hospital services. There shall be a subcommittee on
Resuscitation.

Reason - Corrects Department names.

SECTION 11. OPERATING ROOM COMMITTEE
a. Composition

The Operating Room Committee shall consist of the Chairs of the Departments of Anesthesiology andBain
mm Obstetrics and Gynecology, Surgery and Trauma andBurns; two Members from the
Department ofAnesthesiology Wm; two (2) Members from the Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology; four (4) Members from the Department of Surgery, with no more than two 
ofthese from any one Division; two (2) Members from the Department of Trauma and?ums; the

nursing supervisors of the smear-wards Same Day Surgery, and of each of

Page 2 of 6

Page 12 of 35

the operating suites; the Director of Nursing Services and the Chief Operating Of?cer HAW
Semices or designee.

Reason Corrects Department names; new title for Chief Operating Officer.

SECTION 12. HOSPITAL QUALITY ASSURANCE
COMMITTEE

The Hospital Quality Assumee Committee shall consist of

 

Opeeati-ng?O-f?eer the Department Chairs and the President. The members from the
administration shall include the Executive Medical Director; the Chief Quality Officer; the System
Chief Operating Of?cer fer the System Chief Operating Of?cer
for Ambulatory Services; the Chief Nursing Officer for the Hospital; the Chief
Financial Of?cer for the Hospital; the Director of Supply Chain Management; the Chief of Clinical
Informatics; the System Director of Health Information Management; the System Director of
Infection Control; the Director of Patient Experience; and the System Director of Pharmacy

Ex o??icio members include the Chief of Clinical Integration, the Chief Business Of?cer, the
Executive Director of Nursing, the Director of Multicultural Affairs, the Chief Financial Of?cer, the
Chief Medical Information Of?cer, and the Chair of the Quality Patient Safety Committee of the
Board.

 

Page 3 of 6

Page 13 of 35

 


UV)

(V)

(Vi)

[vii]



 



 

in
The Hospital Quality Assufa?ee Committee shall meet at least

nine times per year keep a written record of its proceedings, and submit aLleast quarterly

reports to the Executive Medical Staff Committee 
for the purpose of reducing morbidity or mortality and' 1mproving patient care W.

Reason - We are proposing to change the name, leadership, composition, and some ofthe duties
ofthis Hospital committee. The committee now becomes a committee of department chairs and
hospital and health system administrative leadership. As inter-disciplinary quality
improvement and patient safety are acknowledged to have central roles in health systems and
with the medical staff charged with having a key role in quality and patient safety, we are
establishing a committee to re?ect our commitment to strengthening the structures and
functions of quality improvement and patient safety.

Page 4 of 6

Page 14 of 35

Some of the key changes include:

1. A new committee name to indicate the focus on quality improvement and patient safety
as opposed to quality assurance.

2. Committee leadership is a chair named by the medical staffpresident with the advice of
the C00 Hospital-Based Services. In the current bylaws, there is an alternating year
chair and co-chair named by the president and COO. Given the complexity and
importance of the committee, a consistent chair is likely to develop the necessary skills
and be more effective than alternating chairs year-by-year.

3. Composition of Department Chairs and key organizational leaders. This should
strengthen and reinforce mutual accountability, multi-disciplinary thinking, and
identification within the organization of key problems and their solutions.

4. Some added responsibilities, including explicit reporting to the committee by Hospital
Oversight, explicit reporting to the committee by medical staff committees engaged in
dimensions of quality, and approval of the annual Quality Assessment and Performance
Improvement plan. A number ofthe duties remain the same but were re-ordered to
improve the ?ow.

5. New titles for Chief Operating Officers.

SECTION 14. INSTITUTIONAL REVIEW BOARD
a. Composition

(ii) Additional members, consistent with Federal Regulations [45 CPR will be
appointed by the Medical Staffs of Provident Hospital of Cook County, OaleFerest?H-espitalef
Medical Directors ofthe CORE Center and the ACHN, the Director ofthe Cook
County Department of Public Health and the Chief Executive Of?cer.

Reason - Oak Forest Hospital no longer exists.

ARTICLE XIV: DEPARTMENTS
SECTION 1. ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENTS AND SERVICES

a. Each Department shall be an organizational unit of the Medical Staff and shall have a Chair who
shall be responsible for the overall supervision of the work within the Department. The Departments
shall be:

Anesthesiology Wm;
(ii) Emergency Medicine;

Family My Medicine and?Ge?mmityHealth;
(iv) Medicine;

Obstetrics and Gynecology;

(vi) Pathology;

(vii) Pediatrics;



(ix) Radiology;

Surgery;

(xi) Trauma andJiums: and

(xii) Correctional Health Services?

Page 5 of6

Page 15 of 35

Reason Corrects the name of two departments and adds a Department of Oral Health for
dentists practicing within the health system.

SECTION 3. QUALIFICTIONS, SELECTION, TENURE AND DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT
CHAIR
f. Duties of Department Chairs

 

Reason ?Adds additional duty for Department Chairs.

Page 6 of 6

Page 16 of 35

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
January 24, 2014

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 17 of 35

  
 
 
ANNA B. ASHCRAFT, J.D.
DIRECTOR, REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT DIVISION 
 
69 W. WASHINGTON, SUITE 3000  Chicago, Illinois 60602‐4053  312  603‐0040 
 
 
MEMORANDUM
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

TONI PRECKWINKLE 
PRESIDENT 
Cook County Board 
of Commissioners 

 
EARLEAN COLLINS 
1st District 
 
ROBERT STEELE 
2nd District 
 
JERRY BUTLER 
3rd District 
 
STANLEY MOORE 
4th District 
 
DEBORAH SIMS 
5th District 
 
JOAN PATRICIA MURPHY 
6th District 
 
JESUS G. GARCIA 
7th District 
 
EDWIN REYES 
8th District 
 
PETER N. SILVESTRI 
9th District 
 
BRIDGET GAINER 
10th District 
 
JOHN P. DALEY 
11th District 
 
JOHN A. FRITCHEY 
12th District 
 
LARRY SUFFREDIN 
13th District 
 
GREGG GOSLIN 
14th District 
 
TIMOTHY O. SCHNEIDER 
15th District 
 
JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI 
16th District 
 
ELIZABETH ANN DOODY GORMAN 
17th District 

To:

Joy Carol Wykowski, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs
Cook County Health & Hospitals System

From:

Anna Ashcraft, Director
Real Estate Management Division

Date:

January 21, 2014

Subject:

Back-up Information, Action Item #IV(D)
For Meeting of 012414

This item seeks approval of a Second Amendment to Intergovernmental Agreement between the
County of Cook, and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County.
The County Board authorized an Intergovernmental Agreement (the “IGA”) between Cook County
and the District to establish a joint planning initiative to provide for cooperation and to prepare
plans for the development of 175 acres of new forest preserve land adjacent to the Oak Forest
Health Center that was formerly owned by Cook County. Pursuant to the IGA, a consultant was
retained and a master planning process was undertaken, with public participation and participation
by the Cook County Health and Hospitals Systems. This Master Plan has been completed.
On July 10, 2012, the County Board and the District Board amended the IGA to provide for access,
signage, and other actions to further the cooperative development of the Preserve.
The parties now have determined that the use of portions of the existing service road on the Campus
would facilitate the timely and cost-effective development of the proposed multi-purpose trail on
the Preserve. The proposed Second Amendment to the IGA provides for the following actions:
1.
Temporary Easement Agreement. The County and the District agree to execute an Easement
Agreement upon completion of surveys and legal description for conveyance of approximately
1.418 acres for purposes of constructing, inspecting, maintaining, repairing, replacing and removing
a multi-purpose recreational trail;
2.
Permanent Easement. The County and the District agree that this temporary easement will be
replaced with either a permanent easement or the conveyance of the fee upon a determination of the
desirability of conveying additional property for purposes of the Preserve and agreement of the
parties as to any appropriate compensation.
This Amendment was approved by the Cook County Board on January 15, 2014 and by the Forest
Preserve District Board of Commissioners on January 14, 2014.
Board approval included the following authorization:
For the President or the Real Estate Director to execute any and all documents and instruments
and to take such other action as may be necessary to effectuate the Temporary Easement
Agreement.
Fiscal Impact: None
If you have any questions or need additional information regarding this item, I can be reached at
312-603-0305.
Page 18 of 35

  ORTH EAST CORN ER
NORTHWEST CORNER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

   
   
   
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECHON 22?36?13
NORTH OF I.B.L.
FOUND P.K. NAIL
178411254 00? 
ROW LINE PER a 
DOC. NO. 17842132 STR EET 
.. 159fh STREET (US ROUTE 9 =4 .
Nag-mm?: 7am m' ?77 
8 N. LINE SEcuggT?zagOBIE POB 50.F7857: 94 OLD 159TH STREET 3 :0
70.81? a W640 (ABANDONED) 
. 70) 
- 08 08?? 8S on 
791 8.05, 
PJ 10 78- 7) CT _I?l
2656.75? E3 O. 
?7 ((91 .2 0?1 a. YARD 
00 Elm 9% 

3N 4.36 
:73COOK COUNTY 9; 0? 
CEMETARY MARKER \.00 3 
660.00 m) 
I 
99.00% 
1996.75? E. I 1,
Lu 2:232:23 302?00?55? 
PARCEL 324.00, 
a ma
to
OAK FOREST HOSPITAL CAMPUS LAKE PARCEL 3
0 20 . . 
n: 7900? 
'64) 8 . - :1
a .3, ?30 TITEPARIENT
23 if: g; :3 273.110.00?
N0 71 00?
1233 . . . . PO 
?7
E: 102.? I
$9 CREEK
$42.57 CREEK 405 5,71 
>35? 56.57? 182.39,
50.00 Egg CREEK
$5 GAZEBO 
3 3 6? 
. WATER MAIN SHOW PER PLAN 6
195675 ASPHALT ROAD PREPARED BY DUSABLE CONSULTIN ENGINEERS 
SHEETS THRU (LATEST VISION 04/09/07) 
959 EXISTING 12? WATER MAIN (TO BE ABANDONED) SHOWN PER RANGEFH <0
mg BY DUSABL CONSULTING ENGINEERS 01 
ASPHALT ROAD '57 0. PLANS PREPARED A \l 
BR ?539 2? SHEETS THRU (LAT ST REVISION 04/09/07) 9 \5
Bo? OMPANY 
21-: :2 ?c8 3? WIEE EASEMENT TO TELEPHONE O. 
33 5% GA PER COC. NO. 17600671, REC. JULY 17. I959 
EN 223.15? A
EL ROAD7 1 GRAVEL ROAD
- 
?1 - 
66, A d; 39 
NORTH OF I.B.L. N88 39 22 3900? CH 155.57888'39 22W 1906.89 (19CICERO PARCEL <0 00> A 99 
NORTH OF I.B.L. . 0 
FOUND BRASS PLUG 5% ?0 (EV
4% c) 

Page 19 of 35

 ORTH EAST CORN ER
NORTHWEST CORNER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

   
   
   
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECHON 22?36?13
NORTH OF I.B.L.
FOUND P.K. NAIL
178411254 00? 
ROW LINE PER a 
DOC. NO. 17842132 STR EET 
.. 159fh STREET (US ROUTE 9 =4 .
Nag-mm?: 7am m' ?77 
8 N. LINE SEcuggT?zagOBIE POB 50.F7857: 94 OLD 159TH STREET 3 :0
70.81? a W640 (ABANDONED) 
. 70) 
- 08 08?? 8S on 
791 8.05, 
PJ 10 78- 7) CT _I?l
2656.75? E3 O. 
?7 ((91 .2 0?1 a. YARD 
00 Elm 9% 

3N 4.36 
:73COOK COUNTY 9; 0? 
CEMETARY MARKER \.00 3 
660.00 m) 
I 
99.00% 
1996.75? E. I 1,
Lu 2:232:23 302?00?55? 
PARCEL 324.00, 
a ma
to
OAK FOREST HOSPITAL CAMPUS LAKE PARCEL 3
0 20 . . 
n: 7900? 
'64) 8 . - :1
a .3, ?30 TITEPARIENT
23 if: g; :3 273.110.00?
N0 71 00?
1233 . . . . PO 
?7
E: 102.? I
$9 CREEK
$42.57 CREEK 405 5,71 
>35? 56.57? 182.39,
50.00 Egg CREEK
$5 GAZEBO 
3 3 6? 
. WATER MAIN SHOW PER PLAN 6
195675 ASPHALT ROAD PREPARED BY DUSABLE CONSULTIN ENGINEERS 
SHEETS THRU (LATEST VISION 04/09/07) 
959 EXISTING 12? WATER MAIN (TO BE ABANDONED) SHOWN PER RANGEFH <0
mg BY DUSABL CONSULTING ENGINEERS 01 
ASPHALT ROAD '57 0. PLANS PREPARED A \l 
BR ?539 2? SHEETS THRU (LAT ST REVISION 04/09/07) 9 \5
Bo? OMPANY 
21-: :2 ?c8 3? WIEE EASEMENT TO TELEPHONE O. 
33 5% GA PER COC. NO. 17600671, REC. JULY 17. I959 
EN 223.15? A
EL ROAD7 1 GRAVEL ROAD
- 
?1 - 
66, A d; 39 
NORTH OF I.B.L. N88 39 22 3900? CH 155.57888'39 22W 1906.89 (19CICERO PARCEL <0 00> A 99 
NORTH OF I.B.L. . 0 
FOUND BRASS PLUG 5% ?0 (EV
4% c) 

Page 20 of 35

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
January 24, 2014

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 21 of 35

  

Cock County Health Hospitals System

   

 
 
   

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST 
3' EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: I I

   
 

 
  

SPONSOR

 

      
     
 

 

    
    

 

 

  
        
 

 

    
 

 

     

 

      
 

 

 
 

7 Gladys Lopez. Chief of Human Resources
1 DATE: PRODUCT I SERVICE. 
I ?01/21/2014 Services Executive Search and Recruitment 
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER. 
Amend and Increase Contract Quick Leonard Kieffer, Inc, Chicago, IL 
FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT FUNDED RENEWAL AMGUNT:
890-260 $250,- 000 00 
CONTRACT PERIOD CONTRACT NUMBER: 
4/01/2013 thru 3/31/2015 111325-033 
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY: 
RFP
METHODOLOGY:


 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:

COOK COunty Health and Hospitals System required external expertise in the area of executwe recrUItment

tO assist With thO successful ?ling of key posmons Quick Leonard Kie'ffer was awarded a contract with approvai frOm

thO Board On 10/03/2008 for 12 months in the amount Of $120, 000. 00. On 6/04/2009 thO Board

,3 approved a contract' In the amount of $400, 000.00 for 24 mOnths and increased the contract by $200, 000. Go On

3/26/2010. There was an emergency purchase reported to the Board On 4/21/2011 in the amount of

i $100, 000 00 for Quick Leonard Kief-fer- to conduct a CEO search fer Further there was an amend. extend
and increase on the centract In the amount of $205, 000. 00 and $80, 000 00 for the time period of 07/04/2011 thru

1 01/03/2012. Based upon the Issuance Of an RFP, a request to execute a new contract With Quick Leonard Kle?er,

inc was presented and approved by the Board on 03/28/2013. This request was in the amount of

5 $250,000.00 for a period of 24 months from 04/01/2013 thru 03/31/2015.

 
 
 
      
   
   
   
   
   
 
    
      

3 NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION
i This request :3 to amend and" Increase cOntract number This will provide for continued assistance with
executive search services for One hundred thOus?and dollars ($100 000. 00) expenses will be

- dedicated to the search and recruitment of a Chief Executive 01F car The remaining funds will be available for an

additional search if required. Quick Leonard will assist with the expedient and successful ?lling of any critical
executive positions as needed. This will increase the total contract spend to 605, 000. 00.

 
   
   
      
 
     

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request to amend and increase centract number in an amount not to exceed $5250.00000 as
needed, for the remainder of the contract period from 04/01/2013 thru 03/31/2015.

 
   
 

  

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE:

I .
QM APPROVED

Anthony RajkumOECWef Bu??reszyb?tncer

I 11:1,; 3? 53; 
cm; .- 

. John Cookinham, Financial Officer

 

 

    
      
  
 

    

 

 
  
 

TORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
DBEETH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

4 BY BOARD OF

Ambulatory 8- Community Health Network . Cermak Health Sewices - Department of Public Health .
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident HOSpital - Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

we Brino Health ERIQE B2V8L9?ommunitv

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
January 24, 2014

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 23 of 35

  

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

OHHS

RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

January 24, 2014

 

COUNTYCARE
SECTION 1115 MEDICAID WAIVER DEMONSTRATION CARE

On December 30, 2013 the Federal Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) granted the State
of Illinois a 90-day temporary extension of the CountyCare waiver through March 31, 2014, noting that
they would consider an additional three month temporary extension, if needed. The most significant
change in the extension is that CountyCare is able to claim the 100% FMAP for its membership starting
January 1, 2014. In addition, the extensive application assistor network will be allowed to remain in
place through March 31, 2014 without disruption.

In February 2014, staff expects to present to the Finance Committee the agreement to transition
our back-office third?party administrator to a new vendor. In March 2014, staff expects to present the
Managed Care Agreement with the state to the Finance Committee for consideration.

On Friday, January 10, 2014 CountyCare membership surpassed the 70,000 mark. We were honored to
announce and celebrate this accomplishment at an event attended by Senator Durbin, Chairman
Carvalho, President Preckwinkle and Commissioner Butler at Erie Family Health Center, one of our
partnering FQHC sites. As of Wednesday, January 22, 2014, there have been 72,760 people approved for
CountyCare.

In addition to this membership threshold, CountyCare also achieved another significant milestone -
submission of 100,000 applications to the State for processing. Again, as of January we have
submitted 103,836 applications for CountyCare membership. This milestone is truly significant when you
consider that CountyCare officially began operations on February 1, 2013, serving as a reminder that The
Affordable Care Act is working and making a difference for a significant number of people and their
families in Cook County today, and for years to come.

PERFROMANCE MANAGEMENT OFFICE (PMO)
In order to manage the transformation that must occur for to be a provider of choice we have

developed a Project Management Office (PMO). The goal of the PMO is to evaluate the different
initiatives and changes that being implemented across the system to ensure we are making measurable

Page 24 of 35

progress. For each initiative specific metrics are developed and measured over time, and the progress is
reviewed with our leadership team The PMO maintains the organization?s focus on strategic
priorities and moves us to become a data-driven organization, as well as facilitates progress across
multiple functions at 

PMO includes the following initiatives Hiring, Managed Care, Patient Access, Clinical Capacity and
Operations, Revenue Leakages, and Reporting Mechanisms/Dashboards.

Through our PMO project we have been able to achieve a number of results. Our call abandonment rate
for scheduling has declined from over 13% down to We are reducing the number of discrepancies
between our EMR and billing systems, which improves our revenue collections. The number of positions
we are hiring has increased from 30 a month to approximately 80 per month. We have completed
PCMH training at each of our clinics and rolled out new primary care scheduling templates. In addition,
we are working to revamp the scheduling process to ensure that patients can get access to clinics and to
reduce the number of no-shows of patients who schedule an appointment. The PMO is also monitoring
the transition of CountyCare.

While we have achieved a significant amount of progress, we have a long way to go to make a
provider of choice in the post ACA world. The PMO will continue to be a valuable tool to move our
transformation forward over the next year.

OPERATIONAL UPDATE

The first Linear Accelerator machine installation should be completed by the first week of
February 2014. Once validated by our clinical staff, removal and replacement of the second machine
will commence. The anticipated completion is May 2014.

In November 2013 the HHS Board supported approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the
Medical District (MD) to, in part, to establish joint capital planning and development objectives
and a plan to address redevelopment needs for the Administrative Campus, Stroger Hospital and
Fantus Clinic. In February 2014, the Cook County Office of Capital Planning and Policy anticipates
issuance of a Request for Proposals (RFP) for an architect to guide the Stroger Campus redevelopment
project. The project will include identification and assessment of future space needs of the
Administration, Fantus and Hektoen buildings.

RECOGNITION

Catherine Deamant MD

I am pleased to recognize Dr. Catherine Deamant, Assistant Director of Palliative Care Services for the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System. Dr. Deamant was recently named a 2014 Hastings Center
Cunniff?Dixon Physician Award recipient, one of five physicians, nationwide, recognized for
distinguishing themselves in advancing the practice of palliative care and modeling exemplary skill and
compassion at the bedside.

 

2 Page

Page 25 of 35

Dr. Deamant is a strong leader not only on a national level but also here at Dr. Deamant inspires
with her empathy, skill at alleviating suffering, and success at educating other health professionals on
providing the best possible care to people nearing the end of their lives. She is a fine example of
excellence in the practice of medicine, teaching and research.

The awards are co-sponsored by the Cunniff-Dixon Foundation, whose mission is to enrich the doctor-
patient relationship near the end of life; and the Hastings Center, a bioethics research institute that has
done groundbreaking work on end-of?life decision-making.

Carmen Velasguez
I would also like to recognize Director Carmen Velasquez who retires at the end of this month as

Executive Director of Alivio Medical Center. Carmen?s advocacy for access to quality community based
health care and her years of dedicated service have had an immense impact. Carmen remains a valued
member of the Board of Directors, her perspective and insight is invaluable.

Employees
Finally, as become my practice, I would like to thank all of our employees for their efforts as we continue

the transformation of the Cook County Health Hospitals System into a quality, integrated patient-
centered health network that is financially responsible.

3 Page

Page 26 of 35

 

Page 27 of 35

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
January 24, 2014

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 28 of 35

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Roles and Responsibilities in the
Strategy and External Affairs Area
ff
p
Linda Diamond Shapiro
Chief Strategy Officer
Prepared for the CCHHS Board
Prepared
for the CCHHS Board
January 24, 2014

Page 29 of 35

 Strategy & External Affairs Priorities
gy
•

Prepare the System to leverage strategic opportunity in the context of our mission, 
with a special focus on opportunity arising under health reform.

•

Build leadership processes to advise on strategic direction and implementation 
approaches. 

•

Focus on improvement in the patient experience as a System‐wide strategy.

•

Extend and manage relationships with external stakeholders, including elected and 
appointed officials and civic and community leaders.
appointed officials and civic and community leaders.

•

Assure that patients, County residents and employees are well‐informed and engaged 
in the System’s key mission‐related programs.

•

Elevate the CCHHS reputation locally and nationally as an innovative, dynamic, fiscally 
prudent, highly effective health care entity.

2
Page 30 of 35

 Organization Chart
STRATEGY AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS, January 1, 2014
Chief Strategy 
Officer, 
Linda Diamond 
Shapiro

Director of 
Intergovernmental 
Affairs, 
Joy Wykowski

Director of Policy, 
Kathy Chan

Executive Director 
of 
Communications, 
Caryn Stancik

Key inter
related functions:
Key inter‐related
functions:
• Communications, media, public 
affairs
• Intergovernmental affairs
• Community relations
C
i
l i

Director of 
Marketing and 
Brand 
Management, 

Director of 
Patient 
Experience, 

Offer in Process

TBA

•
•
•
•

3
Page 31 of 35

Director of 
Decision Support, 
Candidate 
Identified

Policy
Decision support
Marketing, brand management
P i
Patient experience
i

 Goals
Strategy & External Affairs initiatives will help CCHHS to:
• Be well regarded by
‐‐patients
‐‐County leadership & other elected and appointed officials
‐‐County leadership & other elected and appointed officials
‐‐civic and community leaders & business leaders including small businesses
‐‐the media
•

Have strong partnerships
‐‐within our managed care network, with key vendors & hospital partners
‐‐with community entities that support health 
with state and federal agencies
state and federal agencies
‐‐with

•

Be influential, pro‐active and innovative 
‐‐shaping policy to build our infrastructure and improve community health status
‐‐identifying and leveraging opportunity in the service of our mission
id tif i
dl
i
t it i th
i
f
i i

•

Have a strong unified voice across our System focused on
,
,
, y pp
‐‐mission, vision, values, key approaches
‐‐improvement of the patient experience
‐‐thinking beyond health care delivery to address population health 

4
Page 32 of 35

 Examples of Recent Key Actions 
Strategy & Policy
• Working with managed care and other leadership, developed and evaluated scenarios 
for the structure, growth and sustainability of our managed care plans
,g
y
g
p
• Presented CCHHS priorities with regard to the state’s innovation plan and statewide 
1115 waiver application
• Represented System positions in key policy forums (Medicaid Advisory Committee; 
foundations associations)
foundations; associations)
• Submitted comment to HFS regarding Alternative Benefits Plan for ACA adults
Community Affairs
• Conducted outreach visits to over 300 churches to encourage CountyCare applications
• Participated  in community events across the County
• Explored opportunities to serve County residents through strategic partnerships
Communications
• Placed Crain’s op ed by Dr. Raju
• Positioned CCHHS through the media on CountyCare and by capturing recent cold 
weather media attention
5
Page 33 of 35

 Key Future Steps
y
p
Intergovernmental Affairs
• Recommend a change in the HMO Act to allow the County, through CCHHS, to hold an 
HMO license
• Propose an amendment to the Open Meetings Act to allow quality and patient safety 
Propose an amendment to the Open Meetings Act to allow quality and patient safety
discussion in closed session 
Strategy & Policy
• Guide a process for our Board to update our strategic plan to reflect the current health 
reform environment and 4Ps
• Assess effect of Medicaid and HMO rules on marketing and outreach approaches
Patient experience
• Facilitate implementation of system‐wide patient experience goals
• With the Civic Consulting Alliance, help secure a fresh, branded look for ambulatory 
centers
• Define an integrated benefits counseling strategy that helps retain patients
Marketing
• Promote CountyCare to an expanded population in a competitive environment
6
Page 34 of 35

 4Ps Looking Forward
Demonstrate effective integration of the CCHHS provider, plan, payer and population 
health manager functions
PROVIDER:  Improved delivery of care
PROVIDER:
Improved delivery of care
• Strengthen the CCHHS delivery model through a focus on patient experience
• Create new delivery system partnerships, building on the CountyCare network
• Expand neighborhood‐based multispecialty resources
PLAN:  Network that serves special populations
• Provide effective access and care coordination for justice involved populations
• Develop a CCHHS managed care plan for patients with HIV, leveraging existing funding
Develop a CCHHS managed care plan for patients with HIV leveraging existing funding
• Promote coverage opportunities for undocumented who remain uninsured
PAYER:  Affordable voluntary health plan for employees, small business and general public
• Create a managed care plan in the Marketplace in which County employees can 
voluntarily enroll
POPULATION HEALTH:  Continuum of services that attend to well‐beingg
• Food security; food as health
• Graduate medical education that fosters population health‐oriented training
8
Page 35 of 35

 