Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System held Friday, August 16, 2013 at the hour of 9:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Wiese called the meeting to order at 9:40 A.M.; at this time, a quorum was established. For quorum
purposes, she appointed Director Butler as a substitute Member of the Committee. She recessed the meeting to
the call of the Chair, in order for the Finance Committee to conclude their meeting. At approximately 10:40
A.M., Chairman Wiese reconvened the Human Resources Committee meeting; at that time, the Committee began
its consideration of the items presented.
Present:

Chairman Dorene P. Wiese, EdD and Director Hon. Jerry Butler
Member) (2)

(substitute Committee

Board Chairman David Carvalho (ex-officio) and Directors Ada Mary Gugenheim and M. Hill
Hammock
Absent:

Directors Jorge Ramirez and Carmen Velasquez (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were
Kevin Frey – Senior Labor and Employment Counsel
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel
Gladys Lopez – Chief of Human Resources
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer

II.

Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Tanda Russell – System Interim Chief Nursing
Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board

Public Speakers
Chairman Wiese asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speakers:
1.
2.

III.

Chris Zook
George Blakemore

Labor Representative, National Nurses Organizing Committee
Concerned Citizen

**Report from Chief of Human Resources (Attachment #1)
Gladys Lopez, Chief of Human Resources, provided an update on the following subjects: Update on County-wide
Projects; 2013 Fiscal Year Vacancies Filled; Recruitment Efforts; Union Re-Calls; and Labor Update. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Director Gugenheim inquired as to the number of nursing schools with which the System has clinical affiliation
agreements. Tanda Russell, System Interim Chief Nursing Officer, responded that the System has agreements
with eight nursing schools; she noted that there are two additional agreements for allied health support positions.
Those agreements will expire soon, so a Request for Proposals (RFP) will be issued in the near future.

Page 1 of 37

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, August 16, 2013
Page 2

III.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources (continued)
During the presentation of the information provided on the union re-calls, Kevin Frey, Senior Labor and
Employment Counsel, provided additional information. He stated that the recalls are from Phase III layoffs, and
the majority of the employees have recall rights going back to November 30, 2011; those rights will expire after a
two-year period. Board Chairman Carvalho noted that the System has a lot of vacancies in the budget; he inquired
whether the System has the ability to prioritize which vacancies they want to fill. Mr. Frey responded
affirmatively. Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, stated that the System has a Position Justification
Committee (PJC) which is headed by members of senior leadership, that regularly meets, reviews all of the
vacancies System-wide, and prioritizes which positions should be filled at a given time.
Mr. Frey noted that on slide 24 of the presentation, under the information for the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP),
it should reflect that there are four vacancies and eight employees on recall.

IV.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Discussion of 2013 Meeting schedule and planning for schedule of 2014 Committee Meetings
Following discussion, the Committee determined that the schedule of remaining 2013 Human Resources
Committee Meetings does not require any adjustments at this time.
With regard to planning for the schedule of 2014 Committee Meetings, the consensus reached by the
Committee indicated that they were not in favor of holding the Committee Meetings and Board Meeting on
the same day.

 

V.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of July 19, 2013
Director Butler, seconded by Chairman Wiese, moved to accept the minutes of the meeting
of the Human Resources Committee of July 19, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Any items listed under Sections IV, V and VI
VI.

Closed Session Items
A. Discussion of personnel matters
B. Update on labor negotiations
C. Discussion of litigation matters
D. **Report from Chief of Human Resources
The Committee did not recess the regular session and convene in closed session.

Page 2 of 37

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, August 16, 2013
Page 3

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Wiese declared the meeting ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Dorene P. Wiese, EdD, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 3 of 37

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Human Resources Committee Meeting Minutes
August 16, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 4 of 37

 Human Resources Committee
Meeting
August 16,
16 2013

CCHHS – Strengthening Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

Page 5 of 37

 Update on HR Projects
• Relocation of Main Entrance to the HR Department √
• CCHHS
CCHHS Employment Plan –
E l
t Pl
W
Was submitted to Plaintiffs 
b itt d t Pl i tiff
Counsel √
– We are waiting for Plaintiffs Counsel’s
Counsel s comments

• Outreach to local High Schools – Fall 2013
• Front Line Manager Training / Leadership Development 
Program – September 2013
Program 
September 2013
• Cook County Parental Leave Policy – became effective 
August 1, 2013
2
Page 6 of 37

 Update on Countywide Projects
CCHHS HR Is Working On
CCHHS HR Is Working On
• Taleo
Taleo Upgrade –
Upgrade – Ongoing
• FMIS (JDE) Upgrade – Ongoing
– Testing is taking place the weeks of August 12
Testing is taking place the weeks of August 12th and 
and
August 19th; anticipate completion by mid‐
November
• Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) – participated in 
data gathering session
• Absence Management – Spring 2014 for FMLA leave 
administration
• Time & Attendance Upgrade –
Ti
&A
d
U
d In early stage
I
l
3
Page 7 of 37

 2013 Fiscal Year Vacancies Filled
(b
(breakdown
kd
by
b Hiring
Hi i Initiative)
I iti ti )
• A
A total of 525
total of 525 vacancies filled through August 
vacancies filled through August
12, 2013
‐
‐
‐
‐
‐

126 Cermak
C
k
83 Joint Commission
69 Other (Includes 17 Direct Appointments)
118 PJC
129 Waiver

For comparison purposes, we filled 346 vacancies in Calendar Year 2012
4
Page 8 of 37

 Why the Continued Focus
on Recruitment
R
it
t
• Many studies have found a positive 
correlation between staffing patterns and
correlation between staffing patterns and 
patient outcomes. There is abundant evidence 
that the presence of a strong workforce has an
that the presence of a strong workforce has an 
impact on the quality of patient care that is 
delivered. 
delivered.

5
Page 9 of 37

 Why the Continued Focus
on Recruitment
R
it
t
• Because
Because HR is generally the candidate
HR is generally the candidate’ss first 
first
impression of our organization, we want to 
ensure that from each point of contact
ensure that from each point of contact 
(CCHHS’ Careers Page, HR’s social media 
outlets interactions via phone email and in
outlets, interactions via phone, email and in 
person, etc.) that we significantly contribute 
towards improving the quality of care for our
towards improving the quality of care for our 
patients.
6
Page 10 of 37

 CHHS R
Recruiting
iti Eff
Efforts
t
Suvondal Ellery, MBA
Recruiter
CCHHS Nurse
– Strengthening
Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

Page 11 of 37

 CCHHS Recruiting Efforts
• Career Fairs
• Social Networking/Social Recruiting
– Facebook “Likes”: 8
– Twitter “Followers”: 0
– LinkedIn “Connections: 12

• Nursing Schools

8
Page 12 of 37

 Upcoming Job Fairs for 2013
• Career Fair CCHHS 
– 09/06/2013 1900 W. Polk, Chicago, IL
• National Career Fairs
– 9/9/2013 Marriott Chicago, Oak Brook, IL
/ /
g ,
,
• The Chicago Tribune Nursing & Healthcare Career 
Expo 
– 09/25/2013 Soldier Field
(
g p
)
• Nurse.com (Nursing Spectrum) 
– 10/01/2013 Drury Lane, Oak Brook, IL 
County Resource/Job Fair
• County Resource/Job Fair
– 11/19/2013 (Location TBD)
9

Page 13 of 37

 Facebook

 

l? Ii Health 

(- fl El 

>12}

   
    
  

               

Home Smoochl HE id)-

Ereate Page

 



Cook County Health Hospitals System ?Liked Message as 

Ree ru ilrnen 
8 likes 4 talking about this

 

 



The Cook County Health and Hospitals System is the safety net for health care in Chicago and suburban Cook
County. The main hospital?the John H. Stronger, Jr. Hospital is located in the Illinois Medical District on Chicago?s
Near Side.

 

About Report a Problem

 

 

Likes
Post Photo Friends 1. that {Eff} Ll
I llr': {?11an Fri? R. Curl-am Ill-manl-
MStartl Ly: LL: Inbozxz - Microsoft Outlook. I m. Microsoft PowerPoint - .. II Cook County Health Li: a 8:32 AM

 

 

10

Page 14 of 37

Facebook (continued)

 

Cook County Health 3; Hospitals System Recruitment Cl

I
Cook County Health &Hospi - 







Home 

 

I Cook County Health 8.: Timeline Recent I

 

Cook County Health 8: Hospitals System Recruitment
shared a link.
Fnday

HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST-HUMAN RESOURCES-VARIOUS
LOCATIONS-UNION LOCAL OppDrUJnity wi?? Cook County
Healih Hospitals System

redirect
cookcountyil.taleo.net

Like Comment Share

Cook County Health 8: Hospitals System Recruitment
shared a link.
Fnday

CARPENTER-LOCAL 13 CIpportJnity wi?o Cook County Health 
Hospitals System

redirect
cookcountyil.taleo.net

Like Comment Share

Cook County Health 3: Hospitals System Recruitment
shared a link.
July 26

Liked 

Cook County Health 3: Hospitals System Recruitment
shared a link.
Fnday

FINANCIAL PATIENT FINANCIAL 
CIppor1JJnity with Cook County Health Hospitals System

redirect
cookcountyil . taleo.net

Like Comment Share

Cook County Health 3: Hospitals System Recruitment
shared a link.
Fnday

OPERATING ENGINEER II-STROGER HOSPITAL -LOCAL 399
CIpporilinity with Cook County Heal?o Hospitals System

redirect
cookcountyil . taleo.net

Like Comment Share

Cook County Health 3: Hospitals System Recruitment
shared a link.
July 26

Create Page

1.0 chat (on) 

MStartl LL: Inbox - Microsoft Outlook I E. MicrosoFt PowerPoint - II Cook County Health 3:33 AM

11

Page 15 of 37

Facebook (continued)

CookCounty Health &Hospi 2T Job Description-FINANCIAI l- 


tips: coo countyitaeor?ie careersecb?or?i 200 jo etai. ?jo =ace 00 (SOT E5140. ace 00 - 
C??h llti' dfbk?debk 5

 

Printable Format 

Apply Online Addto MyJob Cart 5 SHFIRE 

 

Job Description
FINANCIAL PATIENT FINANCIAL SERVICESIFINANCE
Job Number: 00114828

Job Posting: Jul 30, 2013, 12:00:00 AM Closing Date: Aug 13, 2013, 11:59:50 PM
Full-time Alvl. P.lv1.

Posting Salary: COMPETITIVE SALARY
Organization: Health and Hospital Systems

COHHS

Cook County Health 8: Hospitals System

 

JOB SUMMARY

The Patient Financial Services Analyst is responsible forthe Siemens modules, pro?les and master ?les ofthe Siemens patient
accounting application including but not limited to the following: Denials management application, Siemens Receivables
Management Workstation [thl?u?v], Siemens Receivable Policy Manager (RPM), Siemens Echo Eluildeeporting, Siemens
Source document preparation to support Script processing, Siemens Vendor Data Transfers and Reconciliations, Siemens
Accounts Receivable Key Performance Indicator (KPI), Revenue Performance and Staff Productivity reporting, claims
editor administrator which includes daily reconciliation ofSiemens bill generation interface to Emdeon claims editor, and liaises
with Emdeon for proactive issues resolution related to both billing and paymentfadjustment process.

In addition, this position is the primary point of contact to support all desktop and network issues and liaises with the
Information Systems department with regard to systems issues identi?cation and escalation.

MINIMUM UALIFICATIONS 

itStartl ix: I): Inbox-Microsol?t Outlook I FE Microsoft Job ?ag 3:34 AM

 

Page 16 of 37

Twitter

Recruitment {Recruil 
(- 0 ti Er 11;; 

 

Herne Connect Disemrer I Me

 

Tweets 3*

Fellewihg

Fellewers

Faverites Recruitment
USE 

fellow - Refresh -View all

nee Carp. . .- 
iFulluw 

 

 

I. .I Laurie Ruettimann 12 11 . .
- EdIt re?le
I: J?j- ERE net -.: others '3 3 I 
a HFDIIDW
Shannen ?Seen; Gude Tweets
Q- -- -. -Recruitics - 1ethers
CCHHE Recruitment

NURSE STROOER SHIFT.

Pepulsrecceunts Findfriends
DAYS 

Trends - Change
OCHHE Recruitment

 

 

#StartAChahge

#OhamaElirthdayF'resents OPERATING ENGINEER HOSPITAL 

#Ergenemn '7 

#qahda

eeHHs Recruitment

#353913 THERAPY STROOER 11 PM AM 

EIrih 1' ROTATES OTHER WEEKEND LI
lt?Startl Inbex- MicreseFt Outlook MicreseFt PowerPoint - II IIHHE Recruitment e: HQ L3 8:39 AM

 

 

 

Page 17 of 37

Twitter (continued)

 

Recruitment {Recruit 
(- IEJI Twitter; In:- if? 

    
 

    

-H- Discover l'u'le

   

A Home fn?i Connect

#StartAChange Promoted

 

 

 

 

 

#DpamaElirthdayPresents . U5 Labor Department 6 LT Following
#Ergenekon 9 Jobs, employment, workforce, safety, lapor,
#Thats?ttractiye goy 2D issues, and regulations news 3;
Information from the US. Labor Department.
#danda
#333913
Ser? Erin 
3" ere EREhetisthe leading source for recruiting
?mm WW9 news, information and community
Peter ISapaldi
Venice Beach . Fulluwing
Cool?: County Health and Hospitals System is 
.- the third largest public healthcare system in
Ab?ut Hell? Terms the United States. cooltcountyhealthnet
Ellog Status Apps Resources Jobs
Advertisers Businesses Media Developers The Job Matchers @Medicaldohiulatch 1" Following
When posting yourjops with The Job 
?Mi? Matchers, your postings will he placed in front
of SD million seekers across
Simply Hired and others.
.. RecruitingBlogs @RecruitingEIlogs 1* Following
- :fRecruitingEllogs the open social network for
recruiting professionals. News?Johs? 
Research?Slogs?Eyents Noel Cocca Tim
Spagnola Ryan Leary
Featured HealthCare @featured_health 1* Following
Healthg?re 5.5 million health care proyiders in 
categories on healthcarehiringcom
i3 Healthoare Recruiter @the?uidgroup L, Following
help RN's, CIT's, PA's, MD's find great 
Cf johs. LI
.9: .3: Intro): - Microsoft Outlook I MicrosoFt PowerPoint - II EEHHS Recruitment {c LL: 8:48 AM
14

Page 18 of 37

Twitter (continued)

 

 

1:6 Startl 

?3 Recruitment {Recruit I
ft EI Twitter.1nc.[u5] 

      

 

Ll

 

 

 

I'l- Herne Ini- Cunnect Disemrer Me ..
12 1 1 .
h'u' TWEETS FOLLOWING FULLDWEFIS Ii?: Edlt pro?le
?Fellnw
i BLS-Laher Statistics {33 sue. Tweets
In: US Lapur Departmen.
BLS CCHHE Recruitment I-i'r-i'E? 
Pupular accuunts Find friends NURSE COORDINATOR II PACU STROOER HOSPITAL SHIFT:
DAYS 
Expand
Trends - Change
#StanACnange Prumuted CCHHE RecrUItment 2Aug
. OPERATING ENOINEER HOSPITAL 
#Cbar?naElirtndayF'resents .

#Ergenekun
Expand
#TnatsAttracti'ire
eeHHs Recruitment 2Aug
#danda RESPIRATORY THERAPY STROOER 11 PM AM 
SEFQEF Elrin ROTATES EVERY OTHER WEEKEND
Vince Young 
Peter Capaldi Expand
Venice Beach
CCHHE Recruitment 2Aug
CLINICAL LABORATORY SERVICES SITE SUPERVISOR 1,
.2013Twitter Apuut Help Terms Privacy STROOER HOSPITAL, SECOND SHIFT:
Ellpg Status Apps Resources debs EVENINCSINICHTS 
Advertisers Businesses Media Develupers Expand
CCHHE Recruitment 2Aug
ENROLLMENT AND RETENTION CARE
ADMINISTRATION 
Expand
CCHHE Recruitment 25am
.1: Int-ex - Micrdseft Outlet-k I MicreseFt PcwerPc-int - .. II EEHHS Recruitment I fl

 

15

Page 19 of 37

.9: 3:49 AM

Twitter (continued)

3' Recruitment (Recruit. 3-: Job Description - NURSE co- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

{i ?it? 
I at Jun search I my Johpage LI
Return to the home page
Printable Format
Apply Dnline Add to My Job Cart 
Job Description
NURSE COORDINATOR II - PAOU - STROGER HOSPITAL - SHIFT: DAYS
Job Number: 00114841
Job Posting: .Jul31,2013,12:00:00 AM Closing Date: Aug 14,2013, 11:50:59 PM
Full-time AM. PM.
Collective Bargaining Unit: None
Posting Salary: COMPETITIVE SALr'JiiFi?rr
Organization: Health and Hospital Systems
Cook County Health 8.: Hospitals System
JOB SUMMARY
The Nurse Coordinator II is accountable for 243'? supervision and coordination of all activities for the designated unit, patients
and staff; oversees all aspects of patient care bv evaluating, developing and implementing care plans and ensuring that the care
administered is up to applicable standards and in compliance; responsible for managerial duties: clinical supervision, personnel
management, budget planning, and quality service delivery; performs other related duties assigned.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS _l

 

MStartl LIZ: LL33 Int-ox - Microsoft Outlook I Microsoft PowerPoint - .. II Jub- Descriptiun 

16

Page 20 of 37

all?

 

 

It: ?g e:so AM

Linkedln

rm Recruitment Linked 3. - I

 

 

1" El 

       
   
   
 

ti I?ll

   

Search for people, jobs, companies, and 

Recruitment
Recruitment Department at IBook County Health and
Hospitals Svstem

Chicago, Illinois Hospital 8; Health Care

Time to check your 
A career in pharmaceutical sales
will get your pulse going!

it?

 

 

. Learn More
Suggest connectlons connectiongs [m Career Pages

Follow Warner Chilcott on Linkedln

 

ISontact Info
. . People Also 
Activity
Tiffany Jackson
Recruitment is novv connected to Brenda Mitchell, llelA, Recruitment and Retention RecruitmentTeam Specialist

. . . . Advocate Health Care
Manager at Access Communitv Health Netvvork and Tricia lvloslev, Registered Nurse

9 days 390 Earl Powell, 
CCL Programmer at Cook Countv
Health and Hospital Svstem
Recruitment via Suvondal Ellerv

PHARMACIET- AMBULATORY PHARMACY 
cookcount?uilialeomet - ISlick the link provided to see the completejotl description.

Tricia Mosley
Registered Nurse

Suuondal Ellery
Nurse Recruiter at Cook Countv
Hospital

See More 

Background

Hell}; Renee Tucker
Claims and Bene?ts Advocacv
Specialist atComF'svch

 

 

 

. Drum-Illa Ill-inhall LI
wStartl iL?lj: Int-ox - MicrosoFt Outlook I E. Microsoft PowerPoint - II EEHHS Recruitment '3 a 3:54 AM
17

Page 21 of 37

Linkedln (continued)

 

 


?m Recruitment Linked 1: NOn-COuntv EmpIOvees at?

Printable Fermat LI
Jab 2 Out Of15 Previeus 12 3 4 5 

Apply Dnline Add tO My Jub Cart In SHHRE 

DescriptiOn

nusse COORDINATOR II -CRITICAL CARE - HOSPITAL - OAvs


Number: I101 14848

Job Pasting: Aug 2,2013,12:00:00 AM ClOsing Date: Aug 

Full-time AM. PM.
COIIectiiure Bargaining Unit: Nene

 

POsting Salary: COMPETITIVE 
Organization: Health and Hespital Svstems

cc-HHs

Cook (:00ny HeaIth 8. HospitOIs System

JOB SUMMARY

The Nurse COOrdinatOr II is respOnsibIe fOr supervising and cOOrdinating all activities fer the designated unit, patients and staff;
Oversee all aspects Of patient care bv evaluating, deveIOping and implementing care plans and ensuring that the care administered
is up tO applicable standards and in cOmpliance; respensible managerial duties: clinical supervisiOn, persennel management,
budget planning, and qualitv service deliverv and prefOrms Other related duties assigned. MULTIPLE 

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS


?ll Ir

JE'Startl .1: p: Int-Ox - I POwerPOint - II Hun?Euunty a 8:58 AM

18

Page 22 of 37

Nursing Schools
• Resurrection University School of Nursing
• Chamberlain College of Nursing
• Robert Morris University School of Nursing
Robert Morris University School of Nursing
• University of Illinois at Chicago School of 
i
i
f lli i
hi
h l f
Nursing
19
Page 23 of 37

 Additional Changes
• Continue to Update CCHHS’ Careers Page
– List a general phone number for Recruiting and a 
link to the Recruiting Facebook page
– We are working to post CCHHS vacancies directly 
onto our Careers Page
•D
Doing so will save candidates from having to navigate to 
i
ill
did t f
h i t
i t t
get to Taleo and it will expand our exposure by allowing 
search engines such as Google and Bing to drive 
candidates to our vacancies
• Anticipate this going into effect in early September

20
Page 24 of 37

 cans Governance I Careers I Doing Business will1 I FinancialAssislsanceEtBilling I Contribule I Translate 1'

Cook County Health :5 Hospitals System Search Categories ?0

Home Patient Services Clinical Services Locations Education& Research News&Events About Contact Us

     

Careers
Love your Work. Search our Jobs.

Working at the Cook County Heaith 3: Hospitals System is about making a difference. CONTACT US

It's about providing the highest quality patient care by placing the needs of patients ?rst. You?ll

Non-County Employees . . . Gladys Lopez, Chief of
dlscover a culture of teamwork, professionalism and mutual respect and most Importantly, a life- Human Resources
Intemal County changing career.
Employees S. Walnut Suite G?so
Chicago, IL 60612
Employment Opportunities

Phone: [312} 864?1811]

Recruiting: {312) 864-0430
- For Non-County Employees

For all Cook County Health 8. Hospitals System employees. please visit the Careers tab on the ?all DUI Fawbuuj

 

Page
intranet.

 

How to Use Taleo

- Taleo Application 
- Taleo Conversion Error

Why Cook County Health Hospitals System?

Cook County Health 8; Hospitals System is a public worldwide leader in medical care. research
and education. Mission?driven. Patient-focused. Team-based. At nearly ELUDU dedicated
professionals working in every medical and surgical specialty collaborate to provide health
and hope and healing to people from all walks of life.

Respect? Whether on the front lines of patient care or supporting the efforts of your colleagues

21

Page 25 of 37

CHHS L
Labor
b R
Relations
l ti
Kevin Frey
Sr.CCHHS
Labor– &
Employment
Counsel
Strengthening
Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

Page 26 of 37

 Union Re‐Calls
• Meetings scheduled as follows: 
– Friday, August 16thh – SEIU
‐ 42 vacancies
‐ 156 employees on recall/displacement
156 employees on recall/displacement

‐ August 21st – AFSCME
‐ 84 vacancies
‐ 36 employees on recall/displacement

‐ August 22nd – NNOC
‐ 129 vacancies
‐ 10 employees on recall

23
Page 27 of 37

 Union Re‐Calls
• Meetings scheduled as follows: 
‐ FOP ‐ meeting not yet scheduled
‐ 4 vacancies
‐ 8 employees on recall
l
ll

‐ Trades – meeting not yet scheduled
‐ 1 vacancy
1 vacancy
‐ 3 employees on recall 

• Start date for employees who are re‐called:
– Monday, September 23rd
24
Page 28 of 37

 CCHHS Labor
• Will be working with the team to:
‐ Triage labor‐related concerns
‐ Create a uniform grievance process
‐ Update forms and post them on CCHHS’ intranet 
page 
• Working with the Civic Consulting Alliance and 
g
g
Strategic Talent Solution teams to create a Corrective 
Action Template that management can use to 
conduct counseling sessions 
– Goal is to have meaningful conversations with 
employees to correct behavior / performance as 
l
t
tb h i /
f
opposed to issuing discipline
25
Page 29 of 37

  

 

 

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES
TITLE: PARENTAL LEAVE
Policy Number: NIA Policy Form:

Associated Personnel Rule: 6.03(b) 

 

 

 

 

i Effective Date: August 1, 2013

 

 

 

PURPOSE: To establish the terms and conditions under which employees are entitled to paid time off(?parcntal leave?) as a result
of the birth or adoption ofa child.

This policy shall be considered as an alternative to BHR Personnel Rule Maternity/Paternity Absence. An employee that
chooses Parental Leave will not be eligible for additional leave pursuant to BHR Personnel Rule As ofthe effective date of
this policy. BHR Personnel Rule will also apply to the adoption ofa child. If any provision in this policy is in con?ict with a
speci?c provision Personnel Rule 6.U3(b) or any other BHR Personnel Rule. the provision ol?this policy shall take
precedence.

AREAS AFFECTED: This policy applies to all full?time non-union County employees. In order to be eligible for parental leave. an
employee must apply for and be determined to be eligible for FMLA (Family and Medical Leave Act) leave. lfan employee has
FMLA coverage at the time he/she requests parental leave. and-has utilized some or all of the allotted 480 hours coverage.
the employee will nevertheless be entitled to parental leave pursuant to all other provisions ofthis policy and provided that the
employee submits an FMLA Certi?cation form to support the request for parental leave. An employee is eligible to take FMLA leave
ifhe/s'ne:

has been employed by the County for at least twelve months within the prior seven years (including interrupted service); and,
has worked at least 1.250 hours during the twelve-month period prior to the commencement ofthe leave.
All parental leave shall run concurrently with approved FM LA leave.

Any employee who was granted FMLA coverage. or who would have otherwise quali?ed for such coverage. as the result of the birth
ofa newborn or adoption ofa child during the twelve week period prior to the effective date of this policy. shall be eligible for
parental leave.

POLICY AND PROCEDURES: Eligible employees are entitled to receive the following parental leave:

0 Up to four (4) weeks (twenty work days) of parental leave to a birth mother to recover from a non-surgical delivery; or
0 Up to six (6) weeks (thirty work days") of parental leave to a birth mother to recover from a surgical delivery: or

0 Up to two (2) weeks (ten work days) of parental leave for the birth of a child or children to a spouse or domestic partner or
civil union partner; or

Up to two (2) weeks (ten work days) of parental leave for the adoption ofa child or children by the employee or the
employee's spouse or domestic partner or civil union partner.

Parental leave shall be administered in conjunction with the Family Medical Leave Act. and may be combined with other accrued
paid time off such as vacation. personal and/or sick time (consistent with BHR Personnel Rule Sick Leave) to achieve the
maximum amount ofpaid time off while taking FMLA leave. However. employees cannot use parental leave prior to the date of
birth/adoption. and must use parental leave in a continuous block oftime beginning on the day ofbirth or adoption. An employee who
quali?es for parental leave may be entitled to additional time off pursuant to the FMLA. Therefore. employees interested in applying
for parental leave should ?rst review the County?s FMLA policy. Additional bene?ts may be available from the Cook County
Pension Board.

Health insurance bene?ts for an employee receiving parental leave shall be maintained and administered under the same conditions as
for an employee covered by FMLA.

 

Page 30 of 37

 

 

 

 

 

 

COOK COUNTY BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

 

 

POLICY TITLE: PARENTAL LEAVE

 

Policy Form:
Parental Leave Request
FMLA Certification

Policy Number: NIA

Effective Date: 1? 2013 Associated Personnel Rule: 6.03(b)

 

 

 

All rights to parental leave cease at the close ofbusiness on the effective date of an employee's separation or layoff. and neither the
employee nor the employee?s estate is entitled to any further compensation for parental leave beyond the effective date of the
employee?s separation or layoff.

The utilization of parental leave shall not havea negative impact on employment status. Any fraudulent attempt to obtain such leave
may result in disciplinary action. up to and including termination.

Requesting Parental Leave

in order to apply for parental leave. an employee must inform his/her supervisor of the request in writing at least thirty
days before the expected date of delivery or adoption. and submit a completed application for FMLA coverage to the BHR
Medical Unit at least thirty days before the expected date of delivery or adoption. To the extent that thirty days? notice is not
possible. the employee must comply with and as soon as possible. The employee must also provide a copy of the
Parental Leave Request form to the head ofthe employee?s Human Resources office employees in Offices Under the
President must notify the Chief of the Bureau of Human Resources; all other employees must notify their own human
resources department.) An employee who is applying as the spouse. rather than the person giving birth. must also include
with their FMLA application proof of marriage or domestic partnership or civil union.

 

If an employee intends to remain off work after the paid parental leave is exhausted. it must be in conformance with the
FMLA certification provided by the physician.

In the event that a surgical delivery is performed. the employee must submit an additional FM LA Medical Certification form
in order to qualify for six weeks of parental leave

An employee requesting parental leave due to adoption must also apply for FMLA and complete a Parental Leave Request
form. The following must also be provided:

I a Certification from an adoption agency confirming that the employee, or the employee?s spouse or domestic partner or
civil union partner. has been matched by the agency with a child or children; and.

0 a Certiti cation of the date that the actual adoption became effective; and

a Certification that you or the employee?s spouse or domestic partner or civil union partner. is the adoptive parent.

Employees must clearly indicate on Time Off Request forms that they are requesting parental leave. and the specific days for
which such leave is being requested. Timekeepers must verify that the employee has applied for and has been granted FMLA
coverage for the dates in question. and must count such absences against the employee?s FMLA 12-week allotment.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 31 of 37

 

Parental Leave
Frequently Asked Questions

1. Q: What is Parental Leave?

A: Parental Leave is a new form oftime off with pay, available to quali?ed County employees
under certain conditions related to the birth ofa newborn child or adoption ofa child.

2. Q: Who is entitled to receive Parental Leave?

A: Non-union employees of Cook County government who qualify for Family Medical
Leave Act (FMLA) coverage based on the birth of a newborn or adoption of a child. Either the
employee or the employee?s spouse, domestic partner or civil union partner can be the person
who gives birth or adopts a child.

3. Q: How much Parental Leave can an employee receive?

A: An employee who gives birth is entitled to up to four weeks of Parental Leave in the event
of a non-surgical birth, six weeks of Parental Leave in the event of a surgical birth. An
employee who is the spouse, civil union partner or domestic partner of the person giving birth
is entitled to up to two weeks of Parental Leave. An employee who adopts, or whose spouse,
civil union partner or domestic partner adopts, is also entitled to up to two weeks of Parental
Leave. Under all conditions, an employee must apply for and be granted FMLA coverage in
order to qualify for Parental Leave. (To qualify for FMLA coverage, an individual must have
worked for the County for a minimum of 12 months during the previous seven years, and must
have worked at least 1,250 hours in the 12?month period prior to applying for FMLA
coverage.)

4. Q: How do I apply for Parental Leave?

A: Complete a Parental Leave Request form and an FMLA Request form and follow the
instructions on each form. Both forms are available on the Bureau of Human Resources?
webpage, or by contacting BHR. The FMLA application process will require you to
provide appropriate medical documentation con?rming pregnancy and birth, or adoption. The
submission of birth adoption certificates will also be required.

5. If I choose to receive Parental Leave, can I also take up to six months off without pay
or apply some or all of my, accrl ed paid. sick, vacation and personal time) pursuant to

Personnel Rule 6.03 

f?

A: No. Employees who receive Parental Leave will not be eligible for a leave of absence for
up to six months because of the birth of a newborn or adoption of a child, as otherwise
provided for in Personnel Rule 6.03 However, FMLA coverage entitles an employee to be
absent for up to 12 weeks due to the employee?s own serious health condition, and/or the birth
of a newborn or adoption. It is important for employees to understand, therefore, that any time

Page of3
BHR 07/24/[3

Page 32 of 37

 

 

 

 

 

10.

off in advance of the delivery date that is medically necessary, as well as all time off covered
by Parental Leave, will count toward the 12-week FMLA entitlement. The same is true for any
additional time off related to the birth or adoption, whether the time off is covered by accrued
leave time or is unpaid.

Q: If I receive Parental Leave, can I also use some or all of my accrued paid sick time,
vacation time and/or personal time for related absences?

A: Yes. Parental Leave would cover the first four weeks (or six weeks in the event of a
surgical birth) of time off after the birth of a newborn, or the ?rst two weeks in the event of
adoption or if it is the employee?s spouse, domestic partner or civil union partner who gives
birth or adopts. After that, the employee can use any other paid time off to cover related
absences, with one exception: paid sick time cannot be used to cover time off unless it is due to
the illness of the employee or child, or for medical or dental appointments. in other words, sick
time cannot be used for ?bonding? time.

Q: If I receive Parental Leave, can I also apply for regular disability payments from the
Cook County Pension Board?

A: Yes. if you are the birth mother, you may be eligible for disability benefits.

Q: Do I have to complete an application from the Pension Board for disability bene?ts,
or will my application for Parental Leave be suf?cient?

A: You must complete an application from the Pension Board for disability bene?ts. Your
application for Parental Leave will 5591 be sufficient if you wish to receive disability bene?ts
related to your pregnancy.

Q: If my spouse, domestic partner or civil union partner also works for Cook County, are
we both entitled to receive Parental Leave?

A: Yes. Both employees may apply and if eligible may receive Parental Leave.

Q: Can I still use FMLA leave during pregnancy or after the birth of a child?

A: Yes. if it is medically necessary to stop work before the due date, an employee who has
been granted FMLA coverage due to pregnancy would have FMLA coverage for such absences
as long as she has not used up her 12 weeks 480 hours) of FMLA coverage. Employees
who qualify for FMLA coverage are also entitled to be absent to care for a member of their
immediate family who has a serious health condition, including pregnancy?related serious
health conditions. Disability benefits from the Cook County Pension Board may also be

applicable.

Page 2 of3
BHR 07/24/13

Page 33 of 37

11.Q

Does an employee lose seniority rights when she takes disability leave due to

pregnancy?

A

All Pension Board rules that apply to employees on ordinary disability would apply to an

employee who is on ordinary disability due to pregnancy and birth of a newborn. Generally,
employees do not ?lose? seniority rights while on ordinary disability, although they do not earn
seniority for the time they are on such leave. Consult the Pension Board for additional

formation.

Are bargaining unit employees eligible for Parental Leave?

No.

What happens to an employee?s bene?ts while on Parental Leave?

Bene?ts will continue while the employee is on Parental Leave.

Will an employee continue to accrue vacation and sick leave while on Parental Leave?
Yes.

If the employee has a multiple birth or adopts more than one child at the same time,
ill they receive a period of paid Parental Leave for each child?

No. Multiple births adoptions occurring generally at the same time are treated as one

event

16. 

A:

Is Parental Leave available for foster care placement?

No.

Contact Information:

Bureau of Human Resources Comptroller?s Of?ce

1 18 North Clark Street, Room 834 18 North Clark Street, Room 500
Chicago, IL 60602 Chicago, IL 60602

(312) 603-5981 (312) 603?5601

Cook County Pension Board

33 North Dearborn, lOth Floor


3

hicago, IL 60602
12-603-1200

Page 3 ot?3
BHR 07/24/13

Page 34 of 37

BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES

PARENTAL LEAVE REQUEST FORM

 

l, hereby request paid parental leave in accordance
(print clearly)

with the Cook County policy governing such paid leave. My specific request is as follows:

 

Birth (l understand that I must submit a copy of the birth certificate to the HR department after the
date of delivery.)

a I am the birth mother and am requesting four weeks of paid parental leave due tora non-surgical
birth. My due date is

 

El I am the birth mother and am requesting six weeks of paid parental leave due to a surgical birth,
which is scheduled to occur on (insert date if known)

 

El I am the spouse l3 domestic partner El civil union partner of the birth mother and am
therefore requesting two weeks of paid parental leave.

 

Adoption

I am going to adopt a child or children and am requesting two weeks of paid parental leave,
effective

El I am the [:lspouse Eldomestic partner l:lcivil union partner of an individual who is going to
adopt a child, and am requesting two weeks of paid parental leave, effective

Check one:

El have attached a certification from an adoption agency confirming that l, or my spouse
or domestic partner or civil union partner, have been matched by the agency with a child
or children.

El i will submit a birth certificate within two weeks of the commencement of the leave (or
AA nannikln\ nan-F'rminn +lnn-I-l I?l' nan: nun-Inn nu- 
db bUUll a: ouminmng Lllal. l, ur my apuuac u: duriicauu pal u.

civil union partner, am the adoptive parent.

Note: No additional paid parental leave is allowed in the event of multiple births or adoptions,
twins, siblings.

 

Page 35 of 37

 

EMPLOYEE AND DEPARTMENT HEAD CERTIFICATION

certify that am not covered by a Collective Bargaining Agreement and that all of the information I am providing is true and accurate. I
understand that i may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, for providing false or misleading information.

I understand that by choosing to take Parental Leave i am not entitled to the leave provisions contained in Personnel Rule 

Furthermore, with respect to all County jobs under the jurisdiction of the Cook County Board President that are not exempt under
Shakman, I certify that i am aware that I am strictly prohibited from conditioning, basing or knowingly prejudicing or affecting any term
or aspect of County employment of hiring upon or because of any political reason or factor or knowingly inducing, aiding abetting,
participating in, cooperating with or threatening any act which is proscribed above. I certify, under penalty of perjury, as provided by the
law that to the best of my knowledge, Political Reasons or Factors did not enter into any County Employment Actions taken with respect
to the above request. i understand that failure to comply with the above prohibitions may result in sanctions, including disciplinary action
up to and including termination and may subject me to criminal prosecution.

Employee Name: Signature:
(print clearly)

 

Employee Title: Date:

Department Head Name: Signature:
(print clearly)

 

Request is ]Approved ]Disapproved Date:

 

 

 

 

FOR BUREAU OF HUMAN RESOURCES USE ONLY
BHR DETERMINATION

With respect to all County jobs under the jurisdiction of the Cook County Board President that are not exempt under Shakman, I certify
that I am aware that i am strictly prohibited from conditioning, basing or knowingly prejudicing or affecting any term or aspect of
County employment or hiring upon or because of any political reason or factor or knowing inducing, aiding, abetting, participating in,
cooperating with or threatening any act which is proscribed above. I certify, under penalty of perjury, as provided by the law that, to the
best of my knowledge, Political Reasons or Factors did not enter into any County Employment Actions taken with respect to the above
action or the employment or hiring process. i understand that failure to comply with the above prohibitions may result in sanctions,
including disciplinary action up to and including termination and may subject me to criminal prosecution.

 

 

Con?rmation of approved FMLA coverage: Yes No Period of FMLA coverage: to
Request for Parental Leave is hereby: Approved Denied Amount of Parental Leave Granted:
Signature of Chief of BHR: Date:

Signature of Compliance Officer: Date:

 

(In the event of disagreement, the Compliance Officer's decision will govern.)

Note: A copy of the approved Request must be submitted to the Pension Board.

 

 

 

 

Page 36 of 37

 

 

 

   
  
  
    
  

Cook County Health and Hospitals System and ?nd
inspiration in serving your community We seek experienced healthcare
professionals to join our respected community of experts.

We invite the following caring professionals to join our team:
Registered Nurses/Pharmacists] Pharmacy Techs
Laboratory Professionals/ Medical Coders

Mental Health Specialists New

Grads
Welcome!

  
    

Career Fair
Friday, September 06, 2013

 

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
Administration Building
1900 W. Polk St; Chicago, IL 60612
Conference Room 220A
10:00 am 2:00 pm
Cook County Health and H05pitals System is a comprehensive, integrated system
of healthcare throughout Chicago and suburban Cook County. This is your

opportunity to network and meet with members of management and experienced
clinicians from our system of care! Refreshments and door prizes will be provided.

To RSVP for this event please contact Suvondal Ellery at 312-864-0423
or via e-mail COOK COUNTY HEALTH
8t HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

   

 

