Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, March 19, 2015 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W.
Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Velasquez called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Carmen Velasquez and Directors Emilie N. Junge and Ada Mary Gugenheim (3)
Board Chairman M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Peter Daniels – Chief Operating Officer, HospitalBased Services
Randolph Johnston – Associate General Counsel
Pat Kitchen – McGladrey LLP
Dorothy Loving – Executive Director of Finance
Elizabeth Reidy – General Counsel

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – Director of Internal Audit
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief Executive Officer
Jonathan Shedden – McGladrey LLP
Dianne Willard – Compliance Officer

\

\

II.

Public Speakers
Chairman Velasquez asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Update from McGladrey LLP on FY2014 Audit (Attachment #1)
Dorothy Loving, Executive Director of Finance, provided an introduction to the item. Pat Kitchen and Jonathan
Shedden, of McGladrey LLP, reviewed the information regarding the plans for the FY2014 Audit. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
With regard to the information provided on the audit timetable, Mr. Kitchen indicated that the plan is to have the
final draft audited FY2014 CCHHS Financial Statements to this Committee for its meeting in May. Director
Junge inquired whether the members will receive a copy of it prior to the meeting. Mr. Kitchen responded that
this is the objective; in the past, based on the timing, it has been hard to achieve that, but the hope is that this year
it will be available in substantially final draft format.

Page 1 of 53

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, March 19, 2015
Page 2

III.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Update from McGladrey LLP on FY2014 Audit (continued)
In response to a question from Board Chairman Hammock regarding pension liability, Mr. Kitchen stated that the
testing of the overall pension obligation for the County is performed by the County audit team; that team is
looking at the accounting and reporting for that liability in the context of the rules at that level. The liability itself
does not show up on the System’s statement of net position; the only thing that is reflected in the System’s
financial statements is its allocated expense. Board Chairman Hammock inquired whether the expense is
calculated as an accrual, as opposed to the cash benefits that are paid that year to a recipient. Mr. Kitchen
responded affirmatively; he stated that it is an estimate of the liability that translates to an expense provision that
is somewhat unrelated to the actual cash going out to beneficiaries in any given year. Board Chairman Hammock
stated that it would be helpful to have a footnote that quantifies that number so this Board can have it in front of
them, even though it is not a direct liability. Similarly, he believed that the County allocates a portion of the debt
service to the System; he inquired whether the auditors would test whether the allocations have been appropriately
calculated. Mr. Kitchen indicated that he and his staff will take a look at that, as well.
It was noted that the fees relating to McGladrey’s services are arranged at the County level and are paid by the
County. Board Chairman Hammock requested further information regarding the amount of fees that are related to
the healthcare portion of those services.

B. Committee Education
Directors Gugenheim and Junge provided an overview of information they received at a recent audit and
compliance conference. Director Gugenheim stated that a good deal of the presentations on the audit side
included discussions of the complex arrangements that typically exist in the private sector where groups of
physicians co-own diagnostic and various other pieces of the entire system. Additionally, functional systems in
which quality and patient safety fell under the audit and compliance agenda were described. She thought about
that and how it is managed here, and discussed the subject with Cathy Bodnar, Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer, and Dr. Krishna Das, Chief Quality Officer; they all agreed that there is no need to change the
structures and organization here.
Director Junge indicated that, from an overall perspective, the following three points summarize what she learned
at the conference: 1) the System needs to have a competent audit and compliance staff, which it does; 2) there is a
need for transparency at all levels, and a willingness of the staff to share what may be unpleasant news; and 3)
there is a need for a good reporting structure to the Compliance Officer, as well as to the Board.

IV.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (Attachment #2)
A. Receive and file Corporate Compliance 2014 Annual Report (Attachment #3)
Ms. Bodnar reviewed the information contained in her report. Included in the Committee’s meeting
materials was a copy of the Code of Ethics; she noted that there is a training module on that subject that will
be made available for the Board Members. Individual emails will be sent to each Director with instructions
on how to access the module; she will ask all of the Directors to complete this by the end of April.
Additionally, there is a Cook County requirement that each Director must file their Statement of Economic
Interests with the Cook County Clerk. That is expected to be rolled out soon; the due date for filing of that
has been set for May 1st. She noted that, in May, the System is expected to roll out the survey for the
Accounting of Disclosures filing; that has a much more specific requirement regarding conflicts of interest in
comparison to the County’s Statement of Economic Interests.
Page 2 of 53

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, March 19, 2015
Page 3

IV.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (continued)

CCHHS

Training - Code of Ethics module
(email sent from CCHHS Corporate Compliance)

Completed by April 30th

Cook County

Filing of Statement of Economic Interests
(re: conflict of interest, email sent from County
regarding filing)

Filed by May 1st

CCHHS

Filing of Accounting of Disclosures
(re: conflict of interest, further information
to follow)

May – tentative roll-out
June – tentative due date

During the discussion of the information contained in Ms. Bodnar’s presentation on reactive issues, Dianne
Willard, Compliance Officer, provided information pertaining to issues involving privacy breaches. It was noted
that the figures provided included both actual breaches and alleged breaches; the total number represented the
number issues that were investigated. She estimated that probably 25-30% of that number were actual breaches.
Board Chairman Hammock stated that, from a metric point of view, it would be helpful to separate actual
breaches from unsubstantiated breaches and inquiries, etc. Ms. Bodnar stated that she will bring the report of the
number of breaches that from the last fiscal year to the next Committee meeting1. Board Chairman Hammock
stated that it is good to see the metrics, but suggested that it go beyond the metrics and include details on remedial
action taken.
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to receive and file the
Corporate Compliance 2014 Annual Report.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

V.

Report from Director of Internal Audit (Attachment #4)
Tom Schroeder, Director of Internal Audit, provided an overview of the Report from Internal Audit. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.

VI.

Action Items
A. Approval of Charter for Audit and Compliance Committee (Attachment #5)
Mr. Schroeder and Ms. Bodnar presented the proposed Charter for the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to approve the Charter for
the Audit and Compliance Committee. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 3 of 53

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, March 19, 2015
Page 4

VI.

Action Items (continued)
B. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, February 19, 2015
Director Junge, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to accept the minutes of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of February 19, 2015. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections IV, VI and VII

VII. Closed Meeting Items
A. Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer
B. Report from Director of Internal Audit
C. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Chairman Velasquez, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved to recess the open
meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to
the Illinois Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific
employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing
testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(29),
regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental audit
committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves
internal control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or
suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards of the United States of America.” THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Velasquez declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into the open meeting.

VIII. Adjourn
Director Junge, seconded by Chairman Velasquez, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the meeting adjourned.

Page 4 of 53

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, March 19, 2015
Page 5

Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Carmen Velasquez, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

1

Follow-up: Report on the number of privacy breaches for FY2014 will be presented at the May Committee Meeting.
Page 3.

Page 5 of 53

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
March 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 6 of 53

 Presentation to the
Audit and Compliance Committee
McGladrey LLP
March 19, 2015

Page 7 of 53
© 2015 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Discussion Outline
 Required Communications Letter (provided separately)
 Audit Approach and Plan
 Significant Risk/Focus Areas
 Audit Timetable
 Audit Progress to Date

This communication is intended solely for the information and use of Audit and Compliance Committee of
Cook County Health and Hospitals System and is not intended to be and should not be used by anyone
Page 8 of 53
other than these specified parties.

1

© 2015 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Approach and Plan
 Risk-based audit approach

-

-

Identify fraud and control environment risk factors
Focus on areas that contribute to increased risk of material financial
statement misstatement

•
•
•
•

Key business cycles and processes
Significant judgments and estimates
Significant accounting policies
Material events and transactions

Preliminary risk assessments updated during and at the completion of
our audit

Page 9 of 53

2
© 2015 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Significant Risk/Focus Areas
 Significant risk areas

-

Net patient service revenue
Patient accounts receivable and related contractual and bad debt
allowances
Third-party reimbursement and related settlement assets and liabilities
CountyCare health plan activity, including claim reserves

 Focus areas where we will be relying on testing performed by the
County external audit team

-

Cash and investments
Capital assets
Self-insurance liabilities
Debt
Pension liabilities
Payroll expenses and liabilities
Property, sales and cigarette tax revenues

Page 10 of 53

3
© 2015 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Timetable
Task

Month
Oct/Nov

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Audit planning and risk assessment
Jointly establish engagement goals and objectives
Assess risk, document, and evaluate internal controls
Meet with management to enhance understanding of business, financial, and operating activities
Document audit plan and risk assessment
Develop schedule of requested assistance
Present audit plan to Audit and Compliance Committee
Preliminary audit work
Test internal controls
Document understanding of general computer controls
Perform existence testing of patient accounts receivable
Final audit work
County finalizes accounting records

Test year-end account balances
Perform final substantive analytical review procedures
Reporting
Review draft financial statements with CCHHS management
Provide preliminary draft financial statements to County
Present audit results and draft financial statements to Audit and Compliance Committee
Finalize financial statements and other reporting, including management letter

Page 11 of 53

4
© 2015 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Progress to Date
 Status of audit planning and preliminary work

-

Walk-throughs and internal control understanding documentation
areas nearing completion:

• Accounts payable/purchasing
• Treasury
• Accounts receivable
• Payroll
• Capital assets
 Final fieldwork began on March 9, 2015

-

Focusing on accounts receivable and CountyCare activity during week
of March 9, 2015

 Key reporting dates

-

Draft financials available for review by management – April 2015
Preliminary draft financials provided to County – April/May 2015

Page 12 of 53

5
© 2015 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 This document contains general information, may be based on authorities that are subject to change, and is not a substitute for professional advice
or services. This document does not constitute assurance, tax, consulting, business, financial, investment, legal or other professional advice, and
you should consult a qualified professional advisor before taking any action based on the information herein. McGladrey LLP, its affiliates and
related entities are not responsible for any loss resulting from or relating to reliance on this document by any person.
McGladrey LLP is an Iowa limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of RSM International, a global network of independent accounting,
tax and consulting firms. The member firms of RSM International collaborate to provide services to global clients, but are separate and distinct legal
entities that cannot obligate each other. Each member firm is responsible only for its own acts and omissions, and not those of any other party.
McGladrey®, the McGladrey logo, the McGladrey Classic logo, The power of being understood®, Power comes from being understood®, and
Experience the power of being understood® are registered trademarks of McGladrey LLP.

McGladrey LLP
One South Wacker Drive
Suite 800
Chicago, Illinois 60606
312.384.6000
www.mcgladrey.com

© 2015 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

Page 13 of 53
© 2015 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 McGladrey LLP
One South Wacker Drive, Suite 800
Chicago, Illinois 60606
O 312.384.6000 F 312.634.3410
www.mcgladrey.com

March 19, 2015

Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
1900 West Polk Street
Chicago, Illinois 60612
Attention: Ms. Carmen Velasquez, Chair
This letter is intended to communicate certain matters related to the planned scope and timing of our
audit of Cook County Health and Hospitals System's (CCHHS) financial statements as of and for the year
ended November 30, 2014.
Communication
Effective two-way communication between our Firm and the Audit and Compliance Committee is
important to understanding matters related to the audit and in developing a constructive working
relationship.
Your insights may assist us in understanding CCHHS and its environment, in identifying appropriate
sources of audit evidence, and in providing information about specific transactions or events. We will
discuss with you your oversight of the effectiveness of internal control and any areas where you request
additional procedures to be undertaken. We expect that you will timely communicate with us any matters
you consider relevant to the audit. Such matters might include strategic decisions that may significantly
affect the nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures, your suspicion or detection of fraud, or any
concerns you may have about the integrity or competence of senior management.
We will timely communicate to you any fraud involving senior management and other fraud that causes a
material misstatement of the financial statements, instances of noncompliance with laws and regulations
that come to our attention (unless they are clearly inconsequential), and disagreements with management
and other serious difficulties encountered in performing the audit. We will also communicate to you and to
management any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal control that become known to
us during the course of the audit. Other matters arising from the audit that are, in our professional
judgment, significant and relevant to you in your oversight of the financial reporting process will be
communicated to you in writing after the audit.
Independence
Our independence policies and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that our Firm
and its personnel comply with applicable professional independence standards. Our policies address
financial interests, business and family relationships, and non-audit services that may be thought to bear
on independence. For example, partners and professional employees of McGladrey LLP are restricted in
their ability to own a direct financial interest or a material indirect financial interest in a client or any
affiliates of a client. Also, if an immediate family member or close relative of a partner or professional
employee is employed by a client in a key position, the incident must be reported and resolved in
accordance with Firm policy. In addition, our policies restrict certain non-audit services that may be
provided by McGladrey LLP and require audit clients to accept certain responsibilities in connection with
the provision of permitted non-attest services.

Page 14 of 53

Member of the RSM International network of independent accounting, tax and consulting firms.

 Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
March 19, 2015
Page 2
The Audit Planning Process
Our audit approach places a strong emphasis on obtaining an understanding of how your entity functions.
This enables us to identify key audit components and tailor our procedures to the unique aspects of your
operations. The development of a specific audit plan will begin by meeting with you and with
management to obtain an understanding of your business objectives, strategies, risks, and performance.
As part of obtaining an understanding of your organization and its environment, we will obtain an
understanding of internal control. We will use this understanding to identify risks of material misstatement,
which will provide us with a basis for designing and implementing responses to the assessed risks of
material misstatement. We will also obtain an understanding of the users of the financial statements in
order to establish an overall materiality level for audit purposes. We will conduct formal discussions
among engagement team members to consider how and where your financial statements might be
susceptible to material misstatement due to fraud or error.
The Concept of Materiality in Planning and Executing the Audit
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing the audit, evaluating the effect of
identified misstatements on the audit, and the effect of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial
statements, and in forming the opinion in our report. Our determination of materiality is a matter of
professional judgment and is affected by our perception of the financial information needs of users of the
financial statements. We establish performance materiality at an amount less than materiality for the
financial statements as a whole to allow for the risk of misstatements that may not be detected by the
audit. We use performance materiality for purposes of assessing the risks of material misstatement and
determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures. Our assessment of materiality
throughout the audit will be based on both quantitative and qualitative considerations. Because of the
interaction of quantitative and qualitative considerations, misstatements of a relatively small amount could
have a material effect on the current financial statements as well as financial statements of future periods.
We will accumulate misstatements identified during the audit, other than those that are clearly trivial. At
the end of the audit, we will inform you of all individual unrecorded misstatements aggregated by us in
connection with our evaluation of our audit test results.
Our Approach to Internal Control Relevant to the Audit
Our audit of the financial statements will include obtaining an understanding of internal control sufficient to
plan the audit and to determine the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures to be performed. An
audit is not designed to provide assurance on internal control or to identify significant deficiencies or
material weaknesses. Our review and understanding of CCHHS's internal control is not undertaken for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control.
Using the Work of Internal Auditors
As part of our understanding of your business and its environment, we will obtain and document an
understanding of your internal audit function. We will read relevant internal audit reports issued during the
year to determine whether such reports indicate a source of potential error or fraud that would require a
response when designing our audit procedures. Because internal auditors are employees, they are not
independent and their work can never be substituted for the work of the external auditor. We may,
however, alter the nature, timing, and extent of our audit procedures based upon the results of the
internal auditor's work or use them to provide direct assistance to us during the performance of our audit.

Page 15 of 53

 Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
March 19, 2015
Page 3
Timing of the Audit
We have performed preliminary audit field work during the weeks of October 20 and 27, 2014 and final
field work began the week of March 9, 2015. Management's adherence to its closing schedule and timely
completion of information used by us in performance of the audit is essential to timely completion of the
audit.
Closing
We will be pleased to respond to any questions you have about the foregoing. We appreciate the
opportunity to be of service to Cook County Health and Hospitals System.
This communication is intended solely for the information and use of the Audit and Compliance
Committee and is not intended to be and should not be used by anyone other than these specified
parties.
McGladrey LLP

Patrick J. Kitchen
Partner

Page 16 of 53

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
March 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 17 of 53

 Page 18 of 53

Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer
March 19,
19 2015

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC

Corporate Compliance
R
Report
t

 Page 19 of 53

2

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

To Receive and File:
FY 2014 Corporate
p
Compliance
p
Annual Report
p
Discuss Next Steps
o Ethics Obligations
o Proposed Projects for 2015
1st Quarter 2015 Corporate Compliance Metrics

Meeting Objectives

 Page 20 of 53

3

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

This Report
Demonstrates the effectiveness of
the Compliance Program by looking
at the infrastructure, communication
strategy and communication
channels.
channels
Provides an internal assessment of
the Program using the seven (7)
Compliance Program Elements of a
comprehensive compliance program
delineated by the Office of Inspector
General (OIG) in 1998.

Corporate Compliance 2014 Annual Report

 Page 21 of 53

4

Compliance
Counsel
(Vacant)

CCHHS
Chief Executive
Officer

Privacy Officer
(Vacant)
Compliance
Analyst
(Determining
Need)

Compliance
Officer (MCO)

Chief
Compliance &
Privacy Officer

Audit &
Compliance
Committee of the
Board

CCHHS
Board of Directors

Compliance
Analyst

Compliance
Analyst

System
Compliance
Coordinator

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

Compliance
Officer
(Provider)

Corporate Compliance Staffing

 Page 22 of 53

5

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

Ethics Obligations Education

 Page 23 of 53

6

Statement of Economic Interest Filing
Expected Roll Out: Soon
D Date:
Due
D t M
May 1
1stt

Cook County Requirement

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

Accounting of Disclosures Filing
Expected Roll Out: May
Due Date: June

CCHHS Requirement

Ethics Obligations Surveys

 Page 24 of 53

7

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

Priorities on the CCHHS Health Care Provider side:
• Continue to perform proactive auditing and monitoring for healthcare services
services,
in both professional and facility/technical areas, patient privacy and
confidentiality, and policy compliance.
• Continue to update
p
and develop
pp
policies to p
promote compliance.
p
• Perform coding compliance assessment for an outpatient service.
• Monitor documentation compliance with ICD 10.
• Monitor implementation
p
of Advanced Beneficiaryy Notice.

Ongoing Compliance Projects:
• Continue to serve as a resource to our patients, our staff,
ff and
d the
h public
bl at
large.
• Continue to investigate all issues/complaints brought to the attention of the
Program.
Program

Proposed FY 2015 Projects

 Page 25 of 53

8

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

Priorities on the CountyCare Health Care Plan side:
• Mature the
h CountyCare Compliance
l
Program.
– Partner with the Department of Healthcare and Family Services Office of
Inspector General to develop best practices in Corporate Compliance for
CountyCare.
CountyCare
• Strengthen Health Plan oversight in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse.
– Similarly partner with the Department of Healthcare and Family Services
Office of Inspector General and the Cook County Independent Inspector
General to combat fraud, waste and abuse.
• Monitor the grievance and appeals process with all delegated vendors.
• Develop
p and update
p
policies to promote
p
p
compliance.
p

Proposed Projects (continued)

 Page 26 of 53

9

Questions?

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

 Page 27 of 53

10

47
FY 2011

32

FY 2010

FY 2012

86

FY 2013

80

FY 2015

166

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I February 19, 2015

FY 2014

164

Comparison of 1st Quarter Fiscal Year Activity

Reactive Corporate Compliance Volumes

 Page 28 of 53

11

1

73
29
14

Conflict of Interest
HC Fraud
False Claims

12
7
3

Conflict of Interest
7%
Regulatory/Policy
Research

Regulatory/Policy
2%

4
1

Other

HIPAA
44%

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

23

Accurate Books
8%

False Claims
2%

This is a total count of new issues raised to Corporate Compliance. Not all issues are validated/substantiated.

Category Count1
Privacy (HIPAA)
Human Resources
Accurate Books

HC Fraud
4%

Human
Resources
18%

Research
1%
Other
14%

1661 Reactive Corporate Compliance Issues Were Raised

1st Quarter 2015 Issue Breakdown by Category

 Page 29 of 53

12

Questions?

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors I March 19, 2015

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
March 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 30 of 53

 Corporate
Compliance
Annual Report – FY 2014
December 1, 2013 – November 30, 2014

January 30, 2015

Page 31 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14

Table of Contents
I.

Introduction ......................................................................................................................................... 3

II.

Building Blocks – Setting Infrastructure .................................................................................................. 3

III.

Being Present – Communication – Fostering Transparency ..................................................................... 5
A.

Communication Strategy....................................................................................................................... 5

B.

Communication Channels ..................................................................................................................... 5

IV.

V.

Compliance Program Structure: Our Performance of the Elements ........................................................... 5

A.

Policies and Procedures ....................................................................................................................... 5

B.

Compliance Office and Committees ....................................................................................................... 7

C.

Education and Training......................................................................................................................... 8

D.

Effective Lines of Communication – Receiving and Responding to Complaints .......................................... 9

E.

Enforcing Standards........................................................................................................................... 12

F.

Auditing and Monitoring ...................................................................................................................... 13

G.

Risk Assessment ............................................................................................................................... 13
Looking Ahead................................................................................................................................... 14

Page 2

Page 32 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
I.

Introduction

This 2014 Annual Report presents the activities of the fifth year of the Cook County Health & Hospitals System
(CCHHS) Corporate Compliance Program under the operational management of Cathy Bodnar, Chief Compliance
and Privacy Officer. This year was a year of growth and expansion whereby the departmental scope evolved to
encompass the managed care side of the health system’s operations. This report also serves to demonstrate the
effectiveness of our Program by looking at the infrastructure, communication strategy and channels. In addition, this
report provides an assessment of the Program using the seven (7) Compliance Program Elements of a
comprehensive compliance program delineated by the Office of Inspector General (OIG) in 1998.
CCHHS has established a Mission:
“To deliver integrated health services with dignity and respect regardless of a patient’s ability to pay; foster
partnerships with other health providers and communities to enhance the health of the public; and advocate for
policies which promote and protect the physical, mental and social well-being of the people of Cook County.”
Corporate Compliance supports the CCHHS Mission with a departmental Mission:
“To uphold the mission, vision, and core goals of Cook County Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS) by
establishing and supporting a system-wide culture of honesty and respect to guide everyone’s actions by:
Developing standards
Increasing awareness
Promoting honest behavior and professional responsibility
through education, awareness, and shared accountability that promotes compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, and System policies.”
CCHHS has established a Vision:
“In support of its public health mission, CCHHS will be recognized locally, regionally, and nationally – and by
patients and employees – as a progressively evolving model for an accessible, integrated, patient-centered,
and fiscally-responsible healthcare system focused on assuring high-quality care and improving the health
of the residents of Cook County.”
To support CCHHS’ Vision, the Vision of Corporate Compliance is:
“To ensure safeguards are in place for our patients, our staff, and the public at large, the Corporate Compliance
Program will be a resource to everyone affiliated with Cook County Health & Hospitals System.
(For the purposes of this statement, “affiliated” is defined as all employees, medical staff, house staff, Board
members, volunteers, students, patients, partners, consultants, agency personnel, and vendors.)”
II. Building Blocks – Setting Infrastructure
The Annual Report begins with a look at the activities of the Program that incorporate efforts to foster an
infrastructure that produces a comprehensive compliance program. Reestablished in 2009 with the hiring of a
system-level Chief Compliance Officer, a team of full-time employed staff is supported by external consultants. The
consultants provide expertise in particular compliance areas, providing guidance that augments the team’s
knowledge base and provides a national perspective on the matter at hand. The existing Departmental Organization
Chart follows:

Page 3

Page 33 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
Current Compliance Organization Chart
CCHHS
Board of Directors

Audit & Compliance
Committee of the
Board

CCHHS
Chief Executive Officer

Chief Compliance &
Privacy Officer

Compliance
Counsel (Vacant)

Privacy Officer
(Vacant)

Compliance Officer
(MCO)

Compliance
Analyst
(Determining
Need)

Compliance Officer
(Provider)
System Compliance
Coordinator

Compliance
Analyst

Compliance
Analyst

Corporate Compliance Program Scope
The CCHHS activities that fall into the Corporate Compliance purview are:
Accurate Books and Records
Anti-kickback Activities
Conflict of Interest
Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA)
False Claims
Financial Integrity
Fraud, Bribery, and Theft
Integrity in both Marketing and Purchasing Practices
Patient Privacy, Confidentiality, and Security (HIPAA)
Research, Clinical Trials, and Grant Compliance
Undue Political Activity and Operational Influence
Interpretation of laws, rules, and regulations and organizational policy as they relate to Corporate
Compliance

Page 4

Page 34 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
III. Being Present – Communication – Fostering Transparency
A. Communication Strategy
The ongoing organizational compliance communication strategy has been to increase CCHHS’ workforce
awareness of the following topics:
Code of Ethics;
Privacy, Confidentiality, and Security;
Accessibility of the Compliance Officer and Program;
Availability through multiple modalities;
Responsibility to report potential/actual issues;
Consequences of not reporting; and
Non-retaliation.
B. Communication Channels
Within FY14 communicated the aforementioned topics utilizing multiple formats:
System Briefs;
Attendance/presence at team meetings;
Posters;
Compliance Program business cards;
Pens with the compliance hot line number;
Privacy Protector wrist bands; and
Annual education; topics this year included the updated Code of Ethics, Patient Privacy and E-mail
Security.
IV. Compliance Program Structure: Our Performance of the Elements
Element 1
The development and distribution of written Code of Ethics, as well as written policies and procedures that promote
the hospital’s commitment to compliance (e.g., by including adherence to compliance as an element in evaluating
managers and employees) and that address specific areas of potential fraud, such as claims development and
submission processes, code gaming, and financial relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals.
A. Policies and Procedures
1. Updated the CCHHS Code of Ethics to incorporate applicable language within the Cook County Ethics
Ordinance. Each element of the CCHHS Code of Ethics either meets or exceeds the Ethics Ordinance
elements. In addition to the Code of Ethics, updated or developed and implemented multiple system
policies related to general compliance, governance, HIPAA, and conflict of interest.
Examples of the additional policy and procedure activity follow:
Teaching Physician Attestation with Primary Care Exception
Assessed current process and researched Medicare Requirements. Facilitated meetings with
Physician Leadership, created Policies and Procedures, and assisted in Teaching Physician
Attestation process implementation.
Identity Theft
Partnered with operations to create policies and procedures; developed a consistent approach
to remedy the impact of identity theft on operations.
Page 5

Page 35 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
Medical Records
Assisted with policies and procedures for release of information and amending medical
records. Updated release of information authorization forms.
Record Retention
Developed retention matrix, which will supplement the existing policy and provide retention
guidance to the System using the Illinois Hospital Association’s Record Retention Reference
and the current retention material filed with the state of Illinois.
2. Work Plan Activities
In addition to policy and procedure activity, Corporate Compliance worked with operational areas to
assess compliance with procedures and/or regulatory requirements and, in certain instances, assisted
in the development of new policies.
340B Compliance
Partnered with pharmacy and finance to develop policies and corresponding procedures to
document compliance. Ongoing monitoring and assessment of internal progress and
compliance with the 340B Drug Discount Program.
Volunteers
Engaged an external consultant to provide ongoing monitoring of the hospital-based volunteer
program. Assessed compliance with fulfilling deficiencies identified through a gap analysis
and evaluated adherence to policies and procedures.
Annual Education
Developed 3-compliance focused modules for annual education for the CCHHS workforce.
Corporate Compliance remains responsible for the ongoing operations and day-to-day
management of the CCHHS electronic learning management system (LMS) for all
organizational training. By January 30, 2015 achieved 97% workforce completion rate.
Proactive Coding Review – Inpatient DRG Assignment
Managed an external DRG probe audit to assess DRG assignment. A random sample was
reviewed from the top 10 DRG’s at John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital and top 5 DRG’s from
Provident Hospital. A total of 125 records were reviewed. Deficiencies noted, coders
reeducated, and corrective action plan includes ongoing monitoring.
Accounting of Disclosures and Dual Employment Surveys
Developed and managed each survey to support organizational transparency. The intent of
the Accounting of Disclosures survey is to identify any conflicts an individual may have. The
survey requires disclosure of any external activities, whether paid or unpaid, by workforce
members that participate in organizational decision making or influence procurement in any
way. This survey is a mandatory requirement pursuant to our Conflict of Interest policy. In
2014, 791 individuals submitted surveys.
All CCHHS employees are required to complete a Dual Employment survey annually pursuant
to the Rules of the Board of the Cook County Commissioners, CCHHS Dual Employment
Policy and CCHHS Personnel Rules. Any activity outside of CCHHS employment is
considered to be Dual Employment and must be reported. 99.8% or 6,318 employees
completed the survey.
Page 6

Page 36 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
Significant work has been done to identify responsibilities as a health plan with the inception of the
Managed Care Community Network.
CountyCare
Established the CountyCare Compliance Program on July 1st mandated through the County
Managed Care Community Network (MCCN) agreement with the Department of Healthcare
and Family Services to demonstrate commitment to promoting ethical and lawful conduct
consistent with all applicable laws, regulations, and contractual requirements, as well as
CCHHS policies, procedures, and Code of Ethics.
Developed an action plan to incorporate contractual language from the MCCN, IlliniCare’s TPA
agreement, and integrated governmental Managed Care Program Integrity requirements, with
the recommended elements of an effective compliance program. This includes the oversight
of the Fraud, Waste, and Abuse and Grievances and Appeals programs.
Element 2
The designation of a Chief Compliance Officer and other appropriate bodies, e.g., a corporate compliance committee,
charged with the responsibility of operating and monitoring the compliance program, and who reports directly to the
CEO and the governing body.
B. Compliance Office and Committees
Cathy Bodnar, the Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer, reports to both the CCHHS Audit & Compliance
Committee of the Board and the CCHHS Chief Executive Officer. In turn, the CCHHS Audit & Compliance
Committee of the Board and the CCHHS Chief Executive Officer each report to the CCHHS Board of
Directors.

CCHHS Board
of Directors

Audit &
Compliance
Committee
of the Board

CCHHS Chief
Executive
Officer

Chief
Compliance
& Privacy
Officer

Page 7

Page 37 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
The primary duties of the Chief Compliance & Privacy Officer were established to include the following:
Serving as an internal consultant and resource for compliance matters;
Overseeing and monitoring the ongoing functions of the Corporate Compliance Program;
Participating in regular, CCHHS-wide risk assessments to understand potential vulnerabilities;
Serving as the Privacy Officer for CCHHS to assure compliance with HIPAA regarding protection of
patient health information;
Reporting on a regular basis to the CCHHS governing bodies;
Periodically revising the Corporate Compliance Program, with input from the Audit & Compliance
Committee of the Board of Directors and Executive Management in light of changes directed to the
needs of CCHHS and the laws and policies of federal, state, and county bodies;
Developing, coordinating and participating in training programs that focus on the elements of the
Corporate Compliance Program and providing training such that workforce members are
knowledgeable of and comply with the Code of Ethics , compliance policies, laws and regulations;
Coordinating and overseeing compliance auditing and monitoring activities;
Responding to reports of issues or suspected violations related to compliance by independently
investigating these matters, as appropriate, and working with operational leadership, Human
Resources, and General Counsel in the determination of corrective action warranted based on
policies;
Assuring, through consultation with Human Resources and General Counsel, that the CCHHS
disciplinary policies and actions are applied fairly, equitably, appropriately, and consistently; and
Developing policies and programs that encourage CCHHS personnel to report suspected fraud and
other improprieties without fear of retaliation or retribution.
The Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board advises the CCHHS Board of Directors regarding the
implementation of standards and processes to assure professional responsibility and honest behavior,
compliance with regulatory requirements, and risk management.
In addition to the committee relationships:
A formal cooperative collaboration agreement between the CCHHS Corporate Compliance
Program and the County’s Office of the Independent Inspector General (OIIG) was implemented in
December, 2010 and continues to date. This partnership provides investigative support to
Corporate Compliance.
Element 3
The development and implementation of regular, effective education and training programs for all affected
employees.
C. Education and Training
1. New Employee Orientation
Presented an “Introduction to Corporate Compliance and HIPAA”, at 27 New Employee Orientation
sessions addressing over 1,000 workforce members.
Separately trained new resident and fellows on Corporate Compliance and Privacy.
2. Targeted Education
Provided 10 additional education training sessions to 157 attendees. Focused on current
issues and proactively improving compliance to areas such as,
o Departments of Medicine and Surgery
o Ambulatory and Community Health Network (ACHN)
o South Suburban HIV/AIDS Regional Clinics (SSHARC)
Page 8

Page 38 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
3. Annual Compliance Education
Developed multiple computer-based training modules for Compliance and Privacy. Developed three (3)
modules on,
Code of Ethics
HIPAA: Privacy
E-Mail Security
Element 4
The maintenance of a process, such as a hot line, to receive complaints, and the adoption of procedures to protect
the anonymity of complainants and to protect whistleblowers from retaliation.
D. Effective Lines of Communication – Receiving and Responding to Complaints
1. Infrastructure Activities
a. Assisted our workforce members and patients through:
A hot line service by a third party to preserve anonymity if desired. The individual is
given a code number related to the matter, and can call back or check the website
using that code number to review comments and updates.
A separate toll-free number for privacy breaches.
Two (2) e-mail addresses for Compliance (compliance@cookcountyhhs.org) and
Privacy (privacy@cookcountyhhs.org).
b. Established relationships and engaged internal and external resources to assist with
investigations throughout the CCHHS and Cook County.
c. Identified trends and patterns to mitigate organizational risks and facilitate operational
improvement.
d. Presented trends and patterns to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board.
2. Process for Responding to Issues and Complaints
Retained process for issue, complaint management, and resolution as follows:
a. Investigation of the allegation,
b. Determine the area(s) affected,
c. Collaborate with operational leadership and appropriate departments,
d. Review and follow organizational policy, federal, state, and county regulations related to the
incident for mitigation and remediation. These may include further auditing of documentation,
sending a notification and apology letter to the patient, notifying the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid (CMS), notifying the media, and, mitigating harm to the patient (to the extent
possible),
e. Determine and facilitate a corrective action plan including education as needed,
f. Respond to the complainant.

Page 9

Page 39 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
3. Year-to-Year Volumes

715
24
497
27

382
15
27
15

187

FY 2010

242

FY 2011

24

691

470

367

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014

At the start of FY14, 24 issues remained active or in process from prior fiscal years. Therefore, a total
of 715 issues were active within FY14. Beginning in July 2014, our provider based managed care plan,
CountyCare, came onboard. CountyCare Corporate Compliance issues were also logged within the
tracking tool.
4. Reporting
Categories have been defined to allow Corporate Compliance to most accurately measure compliance
with the Code of Ethics. The inclusion of an issue in a specific category does not substantiate the
issue; rather it classifies the issue within a defined category.
Accurate Books and Records
Conflict of Interest
False Claims
Healthcare Fraud and Abuse
HIPAA Privacy, Confidentiality and Security
Human Resources
Research
Theft
An additional category titled Regulatory/Policy was added to the issue categories to segregate and
monitor activity in this area.

Page 10

Page 40 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
5. FY14 Issue Breakdown by Category
Research
Other
0.75%
10%

Regulatory/Policy
6%

False Claims
2%

Political
Activity
1%
Human
Resources
6%
HC Fraud
3%
Theft
0.25%

HIPAA
52%

Conflict of
Interest
6%
Accurate Books
9%

FY14 Combined Issue Count by Category (CountyCare & Provider)
Privacy (HIPAA)
Accurate Books
Conflict of Interest

362
65
59

Human Resources
HC Fraud
False Claims

48
19
11

Political Activity
Research
Theft

6
4
1

Regulatory/Policy
Other

The majority of the issues, 362 or 52%, were categorized as Privacy (HIPAA). On the CCHHS provider
side, of the 345 Privacy issues, 58 were confirmed breaches that resulted in a total of 23,535 patient
notifications. 16 of the 58 privacy breaches were conducted by Business Associates, affecting 868 of
the 23,535 patients notified.
CountyCare issues, although embedded within the aforementioned Privacy (HIPAA) count and graphic
above, are separated below. Twenty-four (24) issues are attributed to CountyCare within the first 5months of the CountyCare Compliance Program.
FY14 CountyCare Issue Count by Category
Privacy (HIPAA)
Conflict of Interest
Accurate Books

15
3
1

Research
Other

1
4

The majority of the CountyCare issues, 17 or 71%, were categorized as Privacy (HIPAA). Of the 17
issues, 7 were confirmed breaches that resulted in 50 member notifications.

Page 11

Page 41 of 53

45
71

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
6. FY14 Issue Status
Of the 715 reactive issues addressed during FY14, 94% or 672 issues were resolved. The majority of
the issues, 92% or 621, were either managed solely by Corporate Compliance or Corporate
Compliance partnered with another area to address the concern raised. The remaining 11% or 49
issues were referred to other areas external to Corporate Compliance for management and follow-up.
The remaining 6% or 43 issues remained outstanding at close of the fiscal year.

43 or 6%
Open Issues

504

672 or 94%
Resolved
Issues

Managed Internally
Partnered with Another Area
Referred to Other Areas

117
51

Element 5
The development of a system to respond to allegations of improper/illegal activities and the enforcement of
appropriate disciplinary action against employees who have violated internal compliance policies, applicable statutes,
regulations or Federal health care program requirements.
E. Enforcing Standards
Broadened the scope of Standards enforcement through:
1. Conflict of Interest. Provided guidance and developed Conflict Management Plans to preserve the
integrity of the decision-making process.
2. Breach Assessments. Reviewed investigations and provided remediation guidance to operational
areas to minimize and/or eliminate breaches in the future and, utilized the CCHHS sanction policy and
Personnel Rules, to provide leadership direction for disciplinary action.
3. Breach Notification. Responsible for the investigation of all instances of lost or stolen patient
information, including paper and electronic. For all instances in which the data loss constitutes a
breach as defined by the Breach Notification for Unsecured Protected Health Information; Interim Final
Rule, the breach notification requirements to the patient, the Secretary of HHS, and the media are
completed. Corrective action plans are created and executed to improve the processes and counsel
the physicians and employees involved.
Page 12

Page 42 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14
4. Investigations Resulting in Employee Related Corrective Actions. HIPAA and Conflict of Interest
complaints were investigated and resulted in employee guidance being provided.
5. Partnerships with Governmental Agencies. In addition to the partnership agreement with the Cook
County Office of the Independent Inspector General, Corporate Compliance has partnered with the
Department of Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) Office of the Inspector General.
Element 6
The use of audits and/or other evaluation techniques to monitor compliance and assist in the reduction of identified
problem area.
F. Auditing and Monitoring
The Corporate Compliance Program conducted proactive coding audits using the following methodology:
1. Determine the area in need of a focused review
2. Identify the time frame and sample size
3. Conduct review
“Blind” review of documentation for coding accuracy based on medical record documentation
to independently assign codes
Identify variances
Identify strengths and weaknesses in process to mitigate risk
4. Communicate the variance to the operational area(s)
G. Risk Assessment
Addressed previously identified risks and challenges to meeting the standards of an effective compliance
program. Activities highlighted in this report minimized risk through the introduction and enforcement of
policies and standards, proactive auditing, education, and issue investigations with corrective action plans
as appropriate.
The course of activities in FY14 has led to the identification of specific risks. Some of these risks may affect
our patients. The following risks were identified for further assessment:
Securing Protected Health Information in electronic and paper format through encryption and
secure storage devices.
Guidance and training concerning appropriate storage of files containing Protected Health
Information
340B Drug Pricing Program
Professional billing contractor monitoring
Attending and Resident documentation compliance
Element 7
The investigation and remediation of identified systemic problems and the development of policies addressing the
non-employment or retention of sanctioned individuals.
Sanction Screening Checks
Addressed regulatory requirements to avoid employing, engaging, contracting or agreeing with any
individual or entity that is excluded or “sanctioned” from participation in a federal health care
program or who is debarred from participation in federal procurement or non-procurement
programs for the provision of goods or services. This is an ongoing project for both CCHHS
employees and vendors initiated in early FY10.
Page 13

Page 43 of 53

 Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Corporate Compliance
ANNUAL REPORT – FY14

V. Looking Ahead
With a solid foundation established, the Corporate Compliance Program will focus on analysis and risk reduction
related to areas of compliance, implementation of policies and procedures, and realization of the annual compliance
education plan.
These priorities have been established for CCHHS Corporate Compliance:
Continue to serve as a resource to our patients, our staff, and the public at large.
Continue to investigate all issues/complaints brought to the attention of the Program.
Priorities on the Health Care Provider side:
Continue to perform proactive auditing and monitoring for healthcare services, in both professional and
facility/technical areas, patient privacy and confidentiality, and policy compliance.
Continue to update and develop policies to promote compliance.
Perform coding compliance assessment for an outpatient service.
Monitor documentation compliance with ICD-10.
Monitor implementation of Advanced Beneficiary Notice.
Priorities on the CountyCare Health Care Plan side:
Mature the CountyCare Compliance Program.
Partner with the Department of Healthcare and Family Services Office of Inspector General to
develop best practices in Corporate Compliance for CountyCare.
Strengthen Health Plan oversight in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse.
Similarly partner with the Department of Healthcare and Family Services Office of Inspector
General and the Cook County Independent Inspector General to combat fraud, waste and abuse.
Monitor the grievance and appeals process with all delegated vendors.
Develop and update policies to promote compliance.

Page 14

Page 44 of 53

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
March 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 45 of 53

 Page 46 of 53

Audit and Compliance Committee

Internal Audit Report
March 19, 2015

COOK 
8: HOSPITALSI SYSTEM

cc: :Hs

 

 

Page 47 of 53

Closed Session

Review and Approve Audit and Compliance Committee Charter

Meeting
g Objectives
j

2

 Page 48 of 53

Information technology controls

Executive closed sessions

o Procedures –

o Purpose – matters relating to information technology

Added the following proposed language to Charter sections:

Audit and Compliance Committee Charter

3

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
March 19, 2015

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 49 of 53

 Category:
CHARTER POLICY
Subject:
CHARTERS FOR THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Title:
AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CHARTER

Page:
1 of 4
Revision of:
03/19/2015

Approval Date:
03/19/2015

This document sets forth the duties and responsibilities, and governs the operations of the Audit &
Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of Cook County Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS).
PURPOSE
CCHHS Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Board of Directors (Board) are committed to the proper
oversight of our Audit and Compliance programs. In furtherance of this objective, the Board initiated an
Audit and Compliance Committee (Committee)1 composed of independent directors.
The purpose of the Committee is to provide oversight to the CCHHS internal audit and corporate
compliance programs and monitor that systems are in place to ensure the quality of information used by the
Board of CCHHS or by external agencies to evaluate the fiscal affairs and regulatory compliance.
Additionally, the Audit and Compliance Committee will provide oversight to ensure the Board of Directors
and management of CCHHS establishes a culture based on honesty and integrity.
The Committee shall advise the Board in matters relating to
(1) the integrity of CCHHS financial reporting,
(2) the effectiveness of CCHHS internal control over financial reporting,
(3) the performance and effectiveness of CCHHS internal audit and corporate compliance
programs and the independent public accountants,
(4) the implementation of standards and processes to ensure professional responsibility and
honest behavior,
(5) the compliance with regulatory requirements, as they relate to and impact the operational
areas above, (6) risk management, as it relates to internal audit and corporate compliance, and
(7) the effectiveness of CCHHS internal controls relating to its information technology
environment.
POLICY
1.

2.

The Board has established a Committee charged with the responsibility of providing oversight to the
internal audit and corporate compliance programs of the organization and ensuring the
organization has adopted and implemented policies and procedures that will ensure compliance with
all applicable laws, regulations, and policies.
The primary goals of the Committee are to
(a) assist the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities relating to the regulatory and financial
compliance with applicable laws, regulatory requirements, industry guidelines, and policies;

1

Since the 1940s, this has been preferred method to provide financial oversight within their companies. For the last decade, the
Office of Inspector General (OIG) in their compliance guidance has also promoted the same approach in ensuring compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations. The OIG believes that creation of Board leadership “as a first step, a good faith and
meaningful commitment on the part of the … administration, especially the governing body and the CEO, will substantially
contribute to a program’s successful implementation.” They also see that effective Board oversight of compliance as one of their
critical fiduciary responsibilities.
Page 50 of 53

 Title:
AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHARTER

Page:
2 of 4

(b) ensure the organization has adopted and implemented policies and procedures which will
require CCHHS to act in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies. This
includes but is not limited to the quality and integrity of accounting, auditing, and compliance
reporting methodologies and financial reporting that reflects the condition of the organization in all
material respects;
(c) review and approve annual internal audit and corporate compliance program plans and
monitor the ongoing progress of said plans;
(d) address and review matters concerning or related to the internal audit and corporate
compliance programs; and
(e) provide a vehicle for communication between the Board, CCHHS management, and the
independent auditors concerning the internal audit and corporate compliance programs.
DEFINITIONS
“Counsel” refers to CCHHS Office of General Counsel or outside counsel as designated.
“Chief Compliance Officer” means the System Chief Compliance Officer or his/her staff as designated by
the Chief Compliance Officer.
“Director of Internal Audit” means the System Director of Internal Audit or his/her staff as designated by the
Director of Internal Audit.
PROCEDURES
The Committee shall:
1. Be comprised of three to five Board members with working knowledge of a health system, none
of whom is an officer or employee of the organization, its subsidiaries or affiliates with one of
which shall be deemed a financial expert.
2. Be independent of management and free of any relationship that, in the opinion of the Board,
would interfere with the exercise of independent judgment as a committee member.
3. Have the authority to hire, terminate, and determine the compensation for the Chief Compliance
Officer and the Director of Internal Audit.
4. Have the authority to engage independent counsel and other advisors, as it determines
necessary to carry out its duties.
5. Provide independent oversight of CCHHS internal audit and corporate compliance programs,
financial reporting processes, internal controls and independent auditors.
6. Meet in advance of meetings of the Board, at least four times annually and more frequently, as
necessary and shall make recommendations to the Board annually, after consultation with the
Chief Executive Officer, on those findings and matters within the scope of their responsibility.
7. Maintain minutes of all its meetings to document its activities and recommendations.
8. Meet periodically with the Chief Compliance Officer, Director of Internal Audit, and the
independent auditors to be kept informed on their independent evaluation of compliance with
legal, regulatory, financial, accounting and auditing practices.

Page 51 of 53

 Title:
AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHARTER

Page:
3 of 4

9. Where there is an applicable exception under the Illinois Open Meetings Act 5 ILCS 120/2(c) the
Committee shall convene in closed session at least quarterly to review and discuss matters as
they relate to the Committee.
10. Review policies and procedures relating to the integrity of financial information of the organization
and those other related entities for the purpose of assuring adequacy of the internal controls and
financial operations.
11. Review policies, procedures, and practices relating to information technology and related controls, for
the purpose of ensuring the integrity of the internal controls for securing private and confidential
information and the efficiency and effectiveness of information technology operations.
12. Review and approve annual internal audit and corporate compliance program plans and monitor the
ongoing progress of said plans and ensure any related work is coordinated with the independent
auditors.
13. Meet with the independent auditors and financial management to review the scope of the proposed
audit for the current year and the audit procedures to be utilized and at the conclusion thereof review
such audit, including any comments or recommendations of the independent auditors.
14. Review changes in the accounting standards and applicable policies and procedures with the
independent auditors. Make appropriate recommendations to management and the Board on the
findings included in the independent auditors' management letter.
15. Review the financial statements contained in the annual report with management to ensure that they
are timely and free from material errors and that all appropriate disclosures are made. Determine
that the independent auditors are satisfied with the disclosure and content of the financial statements.
16. Provide oversight to the implementation of the corporate compliance program, and ensure
adherence to the Standards of Conduct and Governmental Rules and Regulations and recommend
any revisions thereto, as appropriate.
17. Provide oversight to the corporate compliance program relating to the conduct of business that will
ensure that high ethical and conduct standards are met. Ensure the mission, values, and Standards
of Conduct are properly communicated to all employees on an annual basis.
18. Review matters relating to education, training and communication in connection with the Standards of
Conduct to ensure that the policies and procedures on compliance are properly disseminated,
understood and followed.
19. Present to the Board, as appropriate, such measures and recommend such actions as may be
necessary or desirable to assist CCHHS in conducting its activities in compliance with applicable
regulations, policies, and the Standards of Conduct. This includes the results of individual audits,
related findings and management’s response to said findings.

Page 52 of 53

 Title:
AUDIT & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHARTER

Page:
4 of 4

ORIGINAL APPROVAL
At the Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System on Friday, April 16, 2010 at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, 1901 W.
Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room, Chicago, Illinois.
SUBSEQUENT APPROVAL
At the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System on March 19, 2015 at 1900 West Polk, second floor conference room, Chicago,
Illinois.

REVIEW HISTORY:
Written:
Updated:
Updated:
Approved:

January 22, 2010
April 16, 2010
March 19, 2015
March 19, 2015

Page 53 of 53

 