REPORT OF THE
FINANCE COWTTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 18, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman David Carvalho and Directors Quin R. Golden; Luis Munoz,
Heather O?Donnell; and Jorge Ramirez (5)

Absent: Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts (1)

Also Present: Director Jerry Butler; Pitt Caikin Interim Chief Financial Of?cer, Cook
County Bureau of Health Services; Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to the
Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Leslie Duffy Director of
Procurement, Cook County Bureau of Health Services; Patrick T. Driscoll,
Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the
State's Attorney; Donna Dunnings Chief Financial Officer of Cook
County; Dorothy Loving Chief Financial Of?cer, Provident Hospital of
Cook County; Randall Mark Director of Policy Analysis, Cook County
Bureau of Health Services; Stephen Martin, MPH Chief Operating
Of?cer, Cook County Department of Public Health; Elizabeth Reidy -
Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State's Attorney; Kim
Velazquez Director of Budget, Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Jarese
Wilson .. Director, Cook County Department of Budget and Management

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
Sysrem met pursuant to notice on Friday, July 18, 2008 at the hour of 3:00 A.M. at 1900 West
Polk Street, Second Floor, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Finance Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Roll Call

Secretary DeLeon called the roll of members, and it was determined that a quorum was present.

Remarks by Chairman David Carvalho

Chairman Carvalho presented opening remarks to the Committee. He stated that his intent for the
meeting was to have common understanding as to the jurisdiction of the Finance Committee. He
expected to receive an overview of processes with an emphasis on the Board?s role. He believed
that the Board expects to bring transparency and accountability to the process and to ensure that
the System has the resources to meet its important mission.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 18, 2008

PAGE 2

Presentation by Patrick T. Driscoll, 

Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau,
Of?ce of the Cook County State's Attorney

Patrick T. Driscoll, 11:, Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the Cook County
State?s Attorney brie?y addressed the Committee.

Finance Committee Rules

Motion for the Finance Committee to direct the Bureau Chief Operating Of?cer to work
with the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s Attomey to develop Finance Committee
Rules to be reviewed and approved by the Finance Committee.

Mr. Driscoll recommended that for continuity and uniformity, the System Board should adopt
Rules that address the committees universally, and not adopt separate committee rules.

Chairman Carvalho inquired whether the Finance Committee could set its own policies and
procedures once the System Board Rules are adopted.

Mr. Driscoll replied af?rmatively, stating that ?rst the Board should act by passing its Rules, then
the committees can fill in the blanks; the Finance Committee can draft its own speci?c
procedures on how it will deal with ?nance issues and contracts.

In response to a question from Director Butler regarding how far outside the current processes of
the County the System Board can Operate, Mr. Driscoll stated that the System Board is bound by
County Ordinances with regard to requirements such as contract compliance.

Chairman Carvalho asked whether the System Board would have some ?exibility to decide on
some aspects.

Mr. Driscoll quoted Section 38.35 of the Ordinance creating the Systems Board, in which it states
that the Board can adept its own procurement policy, which could give them more ?exibility.

Chairman Cat-valho stated that the Finance Committee would forego action on the subject
of drafting separate Committee Rules, as recommended by counsel.

Chairman Carvalho added that for future meetings the number of staff attending should decline,
as questions related to the agenda could be asked prior to the meeting, thereby reducing the
necessity for staff to be present at the meetings.

Discussion of Budgeting Issues

Chairman Carvalho requested a general overview of the previous and current status of budgeting
issues.

REPORT OF THE-FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
JULY 18, 2008
PAGE 3
Randall Mark, Director of Policy Analysis for the Cook County Bureau of Health Services,
informed the members that he was attending the meeting on behalf of David Small, Chief

Operating Of?cer for the Bureau of Health Services.

Jarese Wilson, Director of the Cook County Department of Budget and Management, explained
that they are in the middle of planning for the ?scal year 2009 budget. Because of the timing of
budget deadlines not quite with the timing of the establishment of the System
Board, it was determined that the Bureau would initially use the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget as a
place?holder for 2009. She added that the place-holder is a moving target, not a ?xed number.
At this point, the Department of Budget and Management is performing its internal analysis of the
preliminary budget requests. It is planned that the President's recommended ?scal year 2009
budget will be presented to the Board by fall, with passage no later then February 28, 2009.

Director Golden inquired whether visual tools. that explain the budget processes and timetable
could be prepared; these tools should articulate the process of how the management teams are
involved, how the forecasting is done, and how the Board is involved.

Ms. Wilson stated that the budget calendar is included in the Budget book under the Citizen
Summary section.

Kim Velasquez, Director of Budget for Stroger HosPital of Cook County, stated that with regard
to budget increases for ?scal year 2009, departments were given the directive to remain at the
?scal year 2003 levels, however, the projected expenditures related to personnel typically
increase each year. She added that the System has an expenditure control team who compares
actual expenses to budgeted expenditure ?gures, and report on the results.

Director O?Donnell asked to whom these reports are submitted.

Ms. Velasquez stated that they were ?rst given to the Chief Operating Of?cers of the entity, who
then distribute the information to the departments.

Ms. Wilson stated that the Department of Budget and Management implemented performance-
based budgeting, under which data is supplied by the using departments that allows the
Department to develop statistics and reports on a basis.

Director O?Donnell requested detailed information on which reports are given to whom and the
process and information used to come up with the numbers.

Director Carvalho commented that using the Fiscal Year 2008 Health budget as a place-holder for
?scal year 2009 is unfortunate, but may be necessary due to budget deadlines and the timing of
the organization of the Board. He added that the timelines are dif?cult to reconcile

perfectly.

Director Golden recognized the inability to and added that it would be helpful if the
Board were to retain the services of a consulting group to work with the senior management team

to design a planning process.

Director O?Donnell suggested that the System Board organize a retreat, where in-depth
discussion 0n bug and short-range visions could take place.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 18, 2008

PAGE 4

With regard to previous requests by Directors for reports and detailed informatitm, Director
Butler stated that there was a difference between governance and management.

Chairman Carvalho reaponded that there was no interest in the Board becoming Co?Chief
Executive Of?cers, and agreed that reports should be designed for the Board to receive
periodically for oversight, not co?management.

Mr. Driscoll outlined the provisions contained in Section 38.83 of the Ordinance creating the
Board that pertain to budgeting.

Discussion of Revenue Issues

Chairman Carvalho asked how to deal with deviations from planned to actual, contained within a
memo from Mr. Small to Cook County Commissioner Joseph Mario Moreno, which was
previously distributed to the Board.

Mr. Mark replied that it is dif?cult, as positions cannot be ?lled. He added that quality suffers as
a result. -

Director Golden stated that the Board should set clear expectations of personnel and management.
She also mentioned that she preferred information to be presented visually, similar to
PowerPoint-type presentations.

Pitt Callrin, Interim Chief Financial Of?cer of the Bureau of Health Services, provided the
members with a report on the 2008 revenue forecast and draft 2009 budget.

Mr. Calkin stated that the MedAssets contract will help determine the 2009 revenues. He
believed that the estimate of reducing the projected revenue shortfall for 2008 by $20 million as a
result of entering into the contract with MedAssets is a reasonable ?gure.

Chairman Carvalho noted that a drop in Medicaid patients affects revenue, and an increase in
self?insured affects expenditures, so attributing a decline in patient revenues to a change in payor
mix was not, strictly speaking, correct. He also cautioned Directors, when looking at
performance by System af?liate to keep in mind that the Medicaid reimbursement rate for each
af?liate had been negotiated by the Bureau to be the same, even though the cost structure was
different for each entity, so comparisrms eculd be misleading.

Chairman Carvalho asked fer information on the net tax revenue subsidy from the County to the
Bureau since 1991.

Mr. Mark responded that the information was included in materials previously distributed to the
Board. He noted that the tax subsidy in 1992 was 48.8% of operating expenses, while in 2007 the
tax subsidy was 30.1% of operating expenses.

With regard to the moratorium on certain proposed federal Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Services rules which would have adversely impacted System Medicaid revenues, Director
O'Donnell asked whether there were any rules on reimbursement not covered by the moratorium.

Mr. Calldn reaponded that he would get back to her with the information.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 18, 2008

PAGE 5

Director Carvalho asked whether the should plan the budget on the assumption that the
moratorium will remain in place.

Mr. Mark stated that it is assumed to remain in place. He added that the global rate structure for
the System may be replaced in the future by an af?liate speci?c structure due to new policies by
the State?s Medicaid agency.

Director O'Donnell requested that the Bureau provide further information giving an overview of
the rules and timeline with respect to the moratorium.

Mr. Mark replied af?nnatively.

Discussion of Purchasing Issues

Mr. Calida provided themembers with an update on issues related to Procurement, and
introduced Leslie Duffy, the Director for Procurement for the Bureau of Health Services.

Chairman Carvalho inquired whether the System had an internal audit function.

Mr. Calkin responded that the System did not presently have an internal audit function, but added
that many individuals from the County Auditor's Of?ce have been assigned to key positions in
the System, He introduced Dorothy Loving, Provident Hospital's recently installed Chief
Financial Of?cer, who worked for the Of?ce of the County Auditor for twelve years.

Ms. Loving provided the members with a brief outline of her background.

Chairman Carvalho noted that staff were currently working on a replacement procurement policy.
He asked fer more information on the timeline.

Mr. Calkin responded that it was his intent to work with Ms. Duffy and Ms. Dunnings on the
policy as soon as possible.

Chairman Carvalho inquired regarding item's requiring approval moving from the County Board
to the System Board.

Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau at the Office of the State?s Attorney.
explained the current County Board process for approval of items. She stated that the Board
should determine and indicate to the Finance Committee what infermation it wants.

Discussion of Litigation Issues

Chairman Carvalho explained that the County. Board has a subcommittee of their Finance
Committee, the Litigation Subcommittee, which discusses litigation issues. He asked Ms. Reidy
what is the intent of the County Board with regard to the System Board on litigation issues.

Ms. Reidy responded that the County Board retained settlement and negotiation authority.
Currently a form exists that is executed by a representative from the Bureau or hoSpital in which

REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITAIS SYSTEM

JULY 18, 2008

PAGE 6

they concur or not with the recommendation of the State?s Attorney. The System Board can
place a mechanism in the form that indicates their approval and concurrence or disapproval. She
cautioned against creating layers with regard to this, however, as litigation negotiations can be

time-sensitive.

Mr. Driscoll added that currently the State?s Attorney has up to $100,000 of settlement authority
without the approval of the Litigation Subcommittee.

In response to a question regarding the self-insurance fund, Mr. Driscoll indicated that the County
Board retained the risk and authority for this.

Other Committee Business

Stephen Martin, MPH, Chief Operating Officer of the Cook County Department of Public
Health provided the members with an update on the Case Management Program Service
Reduction.

He read the following information regarding the update into the record:

- Family case management WILL continue for non-high risk clients. It is a state
responsibility to identify providers and fund the program. With the Board?s
action on Friday, the state has indicated to us that they are now able to move forward and
have already identi?ed and contacted several eager providers. A letter stating this fact
has been requested and will be shared with the board upon its receipt.

0 Although case management will no longer be provided for non?high risk clients by
WILL continue providing categorical case management as it relates to
our statutory responsibilities APORS, Lead Poisoning Case Management, Genetic
Case Management, etc.) [see Attachment Thus, is not out of the case
management business. We are simply shifting our operational focus, based on
economics, from non-mandated public health services to only our core mission and
responsibility for protecting and promoting the health of suburban Cook County.

- Because this activity is a state Illinois Department of Human Services?DHSD
respOnsibility, the data for this program is under their control. Outcomes data such as
infant mortality, birthweight, and preterm is not readily available to the case management
service provider. Enclosed please ?nd a 2006 and FY 2007 IDHS report on Infant
Mortality for your review.

. If the county?s ACI-IN was in a stronger operational position, they could potentially be
selected as a provider by the IDHS and thus integrate their clinical care with this case
management activity resulting in additional revenue above their Medicaid enc0unwr rate.
In the current operational set-up, this health department is not eligible for this revenue
since we do not operate primary care clinics. However, providers in the suburbs will be
selected by 101-18 and will continue to offer the program to these clients. Please note that
the state must select and contract with the providers of their program.

0 All non-high risk clients are eligible for health insurance through the State of Illinois.
The transition of this program DOES NOT impact client eligibility or access to All Kids
coverage provided through the state of Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family
Services. It is our current intention though to continue to complete MPE (Medicaid

REPORT OF THE FINANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 13, 2008

PAGE 7

Presumptive Eligibility) applications for clients who have a positive pregnancy test and

refer them to the case management provider for case management services and a primary

care provider for medical services. It would then be the re3ponsibility of the case
management provider to assist the client in completion of the All Kids applications.

- The Illinois FY 2009 budget includes a 2% reduction in general revenue funds for Infant
Mortalitlease Management and Oulreach Services. With this state reduction andrecent
federal action related to case management, is now monitoring the following 2
major-grant funded programs [Women, Infants, and Children Supplemental Nutrition
Program and Famin Planning Program (Title closely as well for their future
Operational impact in FY 2010. The analysis when completed by will be
presented to this committee as soon as possible in 2009.

. System Board?s action on July 11, 2008 has allowed to quickly move forward on
the service reduction plan and to develop plans to minimize the employee displacement
as best as possible. The final impact will not be available until the employee
displacement process is fully completed.

Adjournment

Director Ramirez, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,

Finance Committee of the

Board of Directors of the

Cook County Health and Hospitals System

BMW

Mr. David Carvalho, Chairman

Attest:

   
    

    
  

    

gr, ..
atthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

?The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board,
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, Illinois 60602.

