Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday,
October 26, 2012 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room,
Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Edward L.
Michael; Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD; Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH; Heather E. O'Donnell,
JD, LLM; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (8)

Absent:

Directors Hon. Jerry Butler and Quin R. Golden (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Krishna Das, MD – System Interim Director of
Quality and Patient Safety
Helen Haynes – System Associate General
Counsel
Charles Jones –Supply Chain Management
Gladys Lopez – System Interim Director of
Human Resources
Mindy Malecki – System Director of Risk
Management
Terry Mason, MD – System Chief Medical Officer

II.

Lisa Meador –Deputy Chief of Labor Relations,
Cook County Bureau of Human Resources
Maureen O’Donnell – System Interim Chief
Human Resource Officer and Chief, Cook
County Bureau of Human Resources
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Carol Schneider – System Chief Operating Officer

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, September 28, 2012
Chairman Carvalho, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of the minutes
of the Board of Directors Meeting of September 28, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, October 16, 2012
During the presentation of the Minutes, Chairman Carvalho referenced the subject of quality measures. He
stated that many of the measures, especially those that are on the Hospital Report Card website that the
Illinois Department of Public Health maintains and which is available to the public, are derived from the
administrative data which contain information from the System’s coding; unless and until coding is at the
standard that the Board and administration would like it to be, those measures are going to present a message
of mixed utility as to what the actual quality measures are. He noted that a report on coding that focused on
credentialing had been provided at a recent Finance Committee Meeting; a report is expected on whether the
System’s audits of the work of coding staff reflect the kind of performance that should be expected out of
coding.

Page 1 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 26, 2012
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports
B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, October 16, 2012
(continued)
Director Michael, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Meeting of October 16, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, October 19, 2012
The Board further discussed a subject that was discussed at the Finance Committee meeting, regarding the
CareLink Program and the level of discount provided to patients residing outside of Cook County. Effective
July 1st, State law provides that if a patient has a hospital bill for a medically necessary service in excess of
$300, and their income is less than 200% of poverty, they get 100% discount for that service. The question
posed at the Finance Committee Meeting was - for the out-of-County residents who are entitled to a discount
under State law, is that an entitlement for a discount for anything the System chooses to provide them, or only
for the services that they are entitled to, pursuant to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
(EMTALA)? Chairman Carvalho had suggested that this issue be added to a list of things to consider - what
restrictions to persons who are not residents of Cook County should the System have in place for non-urgent
medical services? While summarizing the discussion that had taken place, he indicated that the Board should
perhaps consider a revision to the policy with respect to those people who live outside of the County more in
the direction of only providing care that, for example, EMTALA requires to be provided, not all care.
With regard to the information contained in the update on Meaningful Use that was provided at the Finance
Committee Meeting by Dr. Bala Hota, System Interim Chief Information Officer, Director Morris inquired
whether the percentage (70%) of physicians who had completed the online training for the electronic health
record (EHR) system was on-target, or whether the expectation for training completion is higher.
Additionally, there was a question as to whether the number instead related to the percentage of users of the
EHR system. Dr. Terry Mason, System Chief Medical Officer, clarified that the 70% figure relates to the
percentage of physicians who have completed the training; it is not reflective of users of the system. He
added that this is not a totally new system; this is an improved system, which requires additional training many of the physicians already knew how to use the system. With regard to the question of usage, Chairman
Carvalho stated that at the Finance Committee Meeting, Dr. Hota had indicated that one of the challenges in
implementing the EHR system is trying to get all staff to use the system for everything it is capable of doing.
The subject of EHR training was also discussed at the October 16th Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Meeting; at that meeting, it was requested that staff determine what additional training resources may be
needed and return to the Committee with a recommendation.
Director O’Donnell, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Finance Committee Meeting of October 19, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho voted PRESENT on request numbers 2, 3 and 4 under the Contracts
and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.

Page 2 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 26, 2012
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
A. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements (Attachment #1)
i. SEIU Local 20 (Provident Hospital Physicians) – Collective Bargaining Agreement
ii. SEIU Local 20 (Ambulatory and Community Health Network Physicians) – Collective Bargaining
Agreement
iii. SEIU Local 20 (Cermak Health Services Physicians) – Collective Bargaining Agreement
iv. SEIU Local 20 (Stroger Hospital Physicians) – Collective Bargaining Agreement
Lisa Meador, Deputy Chief of Labor Relations of the Cook County Bureau of Human Resources, and
Maureen O’Donnell, System Interim Chief Human Resource Officer and Chief of the Cook County Bureau of
Human Resources, presented the agreements for the Board’s consideration.
Action was taken on this item following the adjournment of closed session.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Michael, moved to approve the four (4) proposed
Collective Bargaining Agreements. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Vice Chairman Ramirez abstained and voted PRESENT.
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #2)
Charles Jones, Director of Strategic Sourcing and Contract Management for the Department of Supply
Chain Management, presented the requests for the Board’s consideration. He noted that request number 2
is being withdrawn at this time; he anticipates that this request will be brought before the Finance
Committee or Board in November.
The Board discussed request number 1. In response to a question regarding why this position has not been
permanently filled yet, Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, stated that the position was posted and
individuals were interviewed, but the administration could not find the appropriate candidate. It was
initially determined that the individual should have healthcare experience, but that requirement limited the
pool of candidates; now, the administration prefers to focus on potential candidates with a County budget
experience. Gladys Lopez, System Interim Director of Human Resources, stated that the position will be
reposted possibly today but no later than Monday, with a revised set of qualifications, as referenced by Dr.
Raju.
Director Michael surmised that, because of the constraints at the System on hiring people, both in terms of
the competitiveness of the salary that can be offered, and the administrative process that is in place, the
Board often finds itself approving contracts such as this; he indicated that his preference is to hire someone
permanently for positions rather than hiring contractors.
Chairman Carvalho clarified that this is not a contract for a fixed term; rather, it is for a contract on an asneeded basis over the course of the next six (6) months. When a contract is presented to the Board for
approval, it is presented with the dollar amount equal to the greatest that may be spent; Ms. Velasquez will
be used on an hourly basis as needed, and, at such time she is not needed, she won’t be used.
Director Morris, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of request number
1, under the Contracts and Procurement Items.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

Page 3 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 26, 2012
Page 4

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Chairman Carvalho stated that a couple of weeks ago, the President incorporated the System’s budget into her
overall budget for the County and made a presentation to the County Board. He and Dr. Raju attended this
meeting. He noted that the President’s remarks during the presentation of the budget were favorable towards the
System and Dr. Raju; he requested that the Board receive a copy of the President’s remarks made at this
presentation, for their information.
The County Board’s budget process has now begun. Later this morning, there is a public hearing of the County
Board’s Finance Committee scheduled regarding the budget; this will be held at the County Building at 9:00 A.M.
Chairman Carvalho added that the County Board’s Finance Committee will be conducting its departmental review
of the System’s portion of the budget on Monday, October 29th.
A. Board Education
 Event Identification and Management (Attachment #3)
Overview of processes used to identify and manage response to adverse medical events within CCHHS
Mindy Malecki, System Director of Risk Management, and Dr. Krishna Das, System Interim Director of
Quality and Patient Safety, reviewed a presentation on Event Identification and Management. The Board
reviewed and discussed the information.
During the presentation, Director Michael inquired regarding adverse events involving devices that are
used. Ms. Malecki responded that the procedure in that type of situation with that set of facts would be to
sequester the equipment and have Bio-Medical staff take a look at it right away; she noted that staff still
follow the general steps (as indicated in the presentation), but in that case the equipment would be pulled
and examined. If it was found that there was a defect in the device and that defect caused an injury, staff
would follow their investigation the way they normally do; in addition, as required by the Safe Medical
Device Act, staff would have to report it.
Ms. Malecki stated that a policy regarding event identification and management is currently being drafted
by a team of individuals, including herself, Dr. Das, Dr. Mason and Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical
Officer of the John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County. She indicated that the policy will include a
timeline for investigations to be done within a certain number of hours; it is currently being proposed that
investigations be completed within two (2) business days. Ms. Malecki noted that the policy is expected to
be presented next month.
Chairman Carvalho stated that Illinois also has a law that requires adverse health care events to be reported;
the law is on the books, and regulations have been adopted to enforce the law. It was passed in 2005, but
has never been funded, so it has not been implemented. He noted that when it is implemented, there will be
another step to add to the event identification and management process. Reporting adverse events to the
Joint Commission is voluntary; however, reporting under this State law, once it is implemented, will be
mandatory. The System will have to report all of the Never Events that occur. Never Events are types of
events identified and defined by the National Quality Forum; these are also identified in the State’s statute.
The information will be shared with other hospitals, although in a masked way; the idea is to make this a
learning tool, not for punitive purposes.

Page 4 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 26, 2012
Page 5

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #4)
Note: this item was taken out of order, following the consideration of Item IV(B).
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: FY2013 Budget Process; Public Health Update;
Komen/Simon Cancer Center Collaborative; and Project Brotherhood – Woodlawn Clinic. Additionally, he
stated that he will be providing information to the Board in response to a question from Chairman Carvalho
regarding the extent to which the System uses products from compounding pharmacies.
Dr. Raju’s report included the recognition of the following events/individuals/subjects:
 Ravi Grivois-Shah, MD
 Marlon Burns
With regard to the update on the FY2013 Budget process, Chairman Carvalho noted that the tentative date for the
County Board’s passage of the budget has been identified as November 16th; as two of the System Board’s
Committees are scheduled to meet that day, staff may need to reschedule the System Committee meetings to a
different date, if the County Board’s meeting is set for the 16th.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Item IV(A))
B. Claims and Litigation
Note: this item was taken out of order, prior to the consideration of Item V.
Director Morris, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings
Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the
public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against,
affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in
which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed
meeting,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of
claims as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity
Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review
or discussion of claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or
communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental
risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body is a member.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Michael, Morris,
Muñoz, O’Donnell and Wiese (7)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Directors Butler, Golden and Velasquez (3)

Page 5 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 26, 2012
Page 6

VII. Closed Session Items (continued)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Board convened into closed session.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened into
regular session.
VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared the MEETING
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 6 of 36

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 26, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 7 of 36

 Transmitting a Communication dated, October 19, 2012 from
MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement

WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, has been negotiated between the County of Cook and Service
Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC (SEIU) representing Provident Hospital,
Physicians; and
WHEREAS, general wage increases and salary adjustments have already been approved and
are reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated between the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union, Local 20,
CTW/CLC (SEIU); and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook
and Service Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC (SEIU) as provided by the
Bureau of Human Resources.

Page 8 of 36

 Transmitting a Communication dated, October 19, 2012 from
MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement

WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, has been negotiated between the County of Cook and Service
Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC (SEIU) representing Ambulatory Care
Health Network (ACHN) Physicians; and
WHEREAS, general wage increases and salary adjustments have already been approved and
are reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated between the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union, Local 20,
CTW/CLC (SEIU); and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook
and Service Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC (SEIU) as provided by the
Bureau of Human Resources.

Page 9 of 36

 Transmitting a Communication dated, October 19, 2012 from
MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement

WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, has been negotiated between the County of Cook and Service
Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC (SEIU) representing Cermak Health
Services Physicians and Psychologists; and
WHEREAS, general wage increases and salary adjustments have already been approved and
are reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated between the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union, Local 20,
CTW/CLC (SEIU); and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook
and Service Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC (SEIU) as provided by the
Bureau of Human Resources.

Page 10 of 36

 Transmitting a Communication dated, October 19, 2012 from
MAUREEN O’DONNELL, Chief, Bureau of Human Resources
Transmitting herewith a Collective Bargaining Agreement for your consideration and approval.
Submitting a Proposed Resolution sponsored by:
TONI PRECKWINKLE, President, Cook County Board of Commissioners
Proposed Resolution
Approving Collective Bargaining Agreement

WHEREAS, the Illinois Public Employee Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.) has
established regulations regarding collective bargaining with a union; and
WHEREAS, a Collective Bargaining Agreement for the period of December 1, 2008
through November 30, 2012, effective the date of approval by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners, has been negotiated between the County of Cook and Service
Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC (SEIU) representing Stroger Hospital,
Physicians; and
WHEREAS, general wage increases and salary adjustments have already been approved and
are reflected in the Salary Schedules included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
negotiated between the County of Cook and Service Employees International Union, Local 20,
CTW/CLC (SEIU); and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Cook County Board of Commissioners
does hereby approve the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the County of Cook
and Service Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC (SEIU) as provided by the
Bureau of Human Resources.

Page 11 of 36

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 26, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 12 of 36

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(B)
OCTOBER 26, 2012 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS
Request 
#

Vendor

Service or Product

Fiscal Impact

Begins 
Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#

Amend, Increase and Extend Contract

1

Kimberly Velasquez

Service ‐ professional services

$150,000.00  System

2

Execute Contract
2

Automated Health Systems,  Services ‐ third party administrator
Inc.
services

Page 13 of 36

To be provided System

Backup to 
follow

  

Cook County Health Hospitals System

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

    

 

 

  
 
 

 

      
    

 

      
 

 

   

 

       
     

 

      
 

 

   

 

     
 

 

  

EXECUTIVE SPONSOR: 32-. 
John Cookinham, System -f Financial Officer, 
DATE: SERVICE: 
October 23, 2012 Service - Professional Services
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
Amend and Extend Contract Kimberly Velasquez
ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT: GRANT FUNDED I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
890-260 $150,000.00 .
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
11/01/2012 thru 04/30/2013 H11-25-123
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
Sole Source/Preferred Provider

 
 

 

 

 

 
  
 

 

  

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY: .
Ms. Velasquez was employed by Cook County for 32 years and has facilitated, coordinated and implemented budget
adoptions for the last 26 years. Ms. Velasquez retired in October Of 2011 and was retained November 1, 2011 to
assist the System Chief Financial Of?cer with the preparation Of the Cook County Health and HOSpitals System FY
2012 Budget. The terms of her current contract expire on October 31, 2012.

  
    
   
   
   
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
Ms. Velasquez has assisted the System Chief Financial Of?cer with the FY 2013 Budget which inciudes the
preparation and generation Of reports, gathering of data, and the computation of amounts included in budget entries.
Ms Velasquez is needed to support any additional Budget responsibilities up to and including support should the
Cook County 2013 Budget not be approved prior to November 30, 2012. This request is to amend and extend the
current contract for Ms. Velasquez to support and assist the System Chief Financial Officer in all transition
responsibilities.

    
   
     
    
   
   
 

TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request to amend and extend contract number H11-25-123 in an amount not to exceed $150,000.00 for a
period of six (6) months from 11/01/2012 thru 04/30/2013.

 
   
 

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: Pending

 
  

  

ATTACHMENTS
BID TABULATIONS: NA
CONTRACT COMPLIANCE MEMO: Pending

OCT 2 8 2012
coo: av BOARD OF

Carol Schneider, SyStem Chief Ope ting Officer DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 
     
        

 

 

 

         

CEO: 
Ram Raju, M.D., Chief Executive Officej

     

Request 
1

 
   
 

- Ambulatory 8: Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County 0 Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital 
Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 01/09/2012

Page 14 of 36

COOK COUNTY
OFFICE. OF CONTRACT COMPLIANCE

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

 

TONI 

SHANNON ANDREWS
EARLEAN CGLLINS 1st Dist. N. 91h Dist. DIRECTOR
RDRERT STEELE 2nd Dist. . GAINER min Dist.
JERRY BUTLER 3rd Dist. .IDI-IN P. 11m 01-51.
M. BEAVERS 4m Dist. JOHN A. FRITCHEY 12th Dist. 118 1? SFreeL Room 1020
DEBDRAI-I SIMS 5th Dist. LARRY SUFFREDIN 13th Dist. Chtcago, 111111018 60602-1304
JDAN PATRICIA MURPHY 5th Dist. GREGG GDSLIN 14m Dist. TEL (312) 603?5502
JESUS G. GARCIA 7m Dist. TIMOTHY D. SCHNEIDER 15th Dist. 6
EDWIN REYES 3m Dist. JEFFREY R. TOBOLSKI 1th Dist. FAX (312) 03 ?4547

ELIZABETH DDODY GURMAN 17th Dist.

October 25, 2012

Ms. Regina Besenhofer'

System Director

Supply Chain Management

Cook County Health and Hospital System
1900 West Polk Street

Chicago, IL 60612

Dear Ms. Besenhofer:
Re: Contract No. H11-25-123 (Amendment to Extend and Increase)
The following bid for the above referenced contract has been reviewed for compliance with the General

Conditions regarding the Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises Ordinance and has been found to
be responsive to the Ordinance:

 

Contractor: . Kimberly A. Velasquez

Contract Amount: $150,000.00

Descn'ption: Services Professional. Services (Consultant)
Status Percentage of participation
Kimberly A. Velasquez (Independent Contractor) WBE 100% Direct
Sincerely,

 

s.

Shannon E. Andrews
Contract Compliance Administrator

SEAfpgb

10/26/12 Board of Directors Meeting

Item Contracts and Procurement items

Request #2 was withdrawn.

Page 16 of 36

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 26, 2012

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 17 of 36

 Significant
g
Clinical Adverse Events:
Identification and Management

Krishna Das, MD, Interim System Director, Quality and Patient Safety
Mindyy Malecki,, JD,, System
y
Director,, Risk Management
g

Page 1 of 11
Page 18 of 36

 Examples
p
of Clinical Adverse Events
Event Type

Reporting*
Reporting

Adverse Drug Effects

MERS, Pharmacy, D&F

Diagnostic Error

M&M

H
Hospital
it l A
Acquired
i d Conditions
C diti
CMS
Hospital Acquired Infections

NHSN/CDC/CMS

Sentinel Events

TJC (optional)

* All events should be reported to MERS (electronic event reporting system since 2/12)
Page 2 of 11
Page 19 of 36

 What are “Sentinel Events”?
“A Sentinel
S ti l Event
E
t is
i an unexpected
t d occurrence involving
i
l i
death or serious physical or psychological injury or the risk
thereof
thereof…
Serious injury specifically includes loss of limb
or function. [They] signal the need for immediate
investigation and response… Not all sentinel events occur
because of an error and not all errors result in sentinel
events”

The Joint Commission

Page 3 of 11
Page 20 of 36

 Examples of Sentinel Events
•Suicide of a patient in inpatient setting or 72
hours after discharge
•Death of a full term infant
•Abduction
Abd i off any patient
i
•Rape of a patient while under care
•Discharge of an infant to the wrong family
•Hemolytic
y transfusion reaction with ABO or
Rh incompatibility
•Surgery
Surgery on the wrong patient or wrong site
•Retained foreign object in surgery
•Severe neonatal hyperbilirubinemia > 30
•Prolonged fluoroscopy with dose > 1500 rads
Page 4 of 11
Page 21 of 36

 What are ‘Never Events’?
Never events are defined by NQF (National Quality
F
Foundation)
d ti ) as:
• Clearly identifiable, preventable events with serious
consequences (29 in
i all)
ll)
• Indicative of real problems in the health care facility
Seven categories:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Surgical
S
i l
Product or device related
Patient protection events
Care management events
Environmental/radiological events
Criminal events
Page 5 of 11
Page 22 of 36

 What are HACs?
Hospital Acquired Conditions
•Air embolism*
embolism
•Blood incompatibility*
•Catheter
C th t associated
i t d UTI
•DVT/PE associated with hip or knee surgery
•Epidermis – pressure ulcers stage III, IV*
•Forgotten
g
object
j
– left in surgery*
g y
•Glycemic control poor – DKA or HONK
•Harm
Harm in hospital – fall, burn, shock
shock*
•Indwelling line infection
•Infection after surgery – heart,
heart orthopedic
Page 6 of 11
Page 23 of 36

 Overview of Clinical Adverse Events

All adverse
events
i l di
including
“near misses”

Adverse outcomes
Preventable

Nonpreventable

Potentially compensable events

Page 7 of 11
Page 24 of 36

 How do we Identify Events
MERS (electronic reporting system)
Verbal Reporting to Quality
Quality, CMO
Patient complaints
Lawsuits
Notice of attorneyy liens
Quality management
Page 8 of 11
Page 25 of 36

 Managing Clinical Potentially Compensable
Events “PCE”s
PCE s
1. Care for the Patient
2. Risk Management Investigates
3. Quality Reviews
4. Prevent Future Occurrences
5. Report to Insurance Carrier
6. Care for Caregiver
7. Protect Reputational
Risk
Page 9 of 11
Page 26 of 36

 PCE Occurs
Reported to risk management . Incident report filed in MERS

Notification

Risk management notifies System senior leadership
SYSTEM
CEO COO
CEO,
COO, CMO,
CMO CNO,
CNO CQO
CQO,
General Counsel

Risk management conducts an
investigation

Risk management evaluates the
potential impact of the event

Risk Management reports to insurance
carrier

AFFILIATE
A
Attending
di MD
MD, CMO
CMO, CNO
CNO, COO
Quality

Communication with patient, family

Investigation

Analysis

Prevention

Page 10 of 11
Page 27 of 36

Quality Director /CMO direct a Root Cause
A l i
Analysis

Affiliate Quality/Oversight Committee
reviews RCA , implements plan

 Summary
•Adverse events in the clinical environment may arise
from multiple root causes
•Early reporting is expected in all cases
Risk management and quality are involved from the
•Risk
beginning
•Clinical team communicates with the patient
p
•Quality leadership initiates a root cause analysis in all
p
causes
cases to identifyy preventable
•Patient support and follow up are key factors in risk
mitigation
•Provider support is available to the health care team
•Certain claims are reported to the Board
Page 11 of 11
Page 28 of 36

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 26, 2012

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 29 of 36

  

GOOK HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM



RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

October 26, 2012

 

 

FY2013 BUDGET PROCESS

The Cook County Board approved the FY2013 Preliminary Budget at their meeting on October 2,
2012. President Preckwinkle introduced the FY2013 Executive Budget on October 18. The County
Finance Committee has scheduled departmental review hearings beginning October 22"d through
November with the departmental review hearing scheduled for Monday, October 29 at 9AM.

The County Finance Committee has scheduled public hearings on the following dates:

Thursday, October 25 Second District Courthouse, Skokie, IL
Friday, October 26 Cook County Building, Chicago, IL
Tuesday, October 30, Sixth District Courthouse, Markham, IL
Thursday, November 1 Fourth District Courthouse, Maywood, IL

Amendments to the FY2013 Executive Budget are due by Friday, November 9th and final approval by the

County Board is expected on Friday, November 

PUBLIC HEALTH UPDATE

Cook County Department of Public Health continues on its path toward accreditation with document
selection to demonstrate its achievement of the standards and measures of the Public Health

Accreditation Board in process.

Environmental Health Surveillance and mitigation activities for West Nile Virus ended September 30,

2012 consistent with past seasons. The Communicable Disease Control Unit will continue to conduct

Page 30 of 36

surveillance regarding human cases of West Nile Virus. As of October 12, 2012, there have been 96 cases
of WNV confirmed in suburban Cook County and 1 death. The majority of cases are in residents over 50

years of age.

The Communicable Disease and Control Unit has been actively working with the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, Illinois Department of Public Health, and Chicago Department of Public Health
in the investigation of fungal meningitis and joint infection cases associated with steroid injections given
at APAC Centers for Pain Management in Cook County using a preservative free steroid preparation
from the New England Compounding Center (NECC). Patients who received injections using the

implicated lot numbers from NECC have been actively notified and investigations are in process.

Both Environmental Health and the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Units have been
active with the Illinois Department of Public Health and the Lake County Health Department in the
investigation of multi?jurisdictional clusters of Salmonella Enteritidis in school-age children attending

private schools associated with a school food vendor located in suburban Cook County.

The Integrated Health Support Services Unit/Public Health Nurses continue to provide support to the
Employee Health Services to administer flu vaccine to both employees and Cook County

employees.

Lead Poisoning Prevention week is October 21 October 27, 2012. Even in low amounts, lead poisoning
can cause irreversible brain damage, shortened attention span, hyperactivity, aggressive behavior,
learning disabilities, and other health and developmental problems for children. Lead paint in housing
units and child care centers built before 1978 continues to present a risk to children Providers are
encouraged to screen for lead poisoning so that early intervention can be initiated. The Lead Poisoning
and Prevention Unit has been active in working this month with municipalities, townships, and providers

to Get the Lead Out!

2 Page

Page 31 of 36

g4

 CANCER CENTER COLLABORATIVE

The Komen Tissue Bank from Indianapolis came to Stroger Hospital on Saturday, September 29 and
collected 71 normal breast tissue specimens for the tissue bank. The event went very smoothly and was
a success. We want to acknowledge the outstanding support by everyone at Stroger Hospital including
the hospital administration, clinic administration, buildings and grounds, security, HIS, materials
management, and the catering by Sodexo. I also would like to thank Thomas Lad, MD, Erika K. Radeke,
Nicole Acosta, Vanessa Barrera, Denisha Brown?, Karen Carter?, Ariel Chavez, Barbara 
Tomas Mackevicius, Marisol Soto, those with the next to their name not only volunteered, they also
donated breast tissue. Other Stroger Hospital providers participated as well: Jeffery Bork, MD, Urjeet
Patel, MD, and Kathleen Powers, PA-C (they performed the biopsies). The visitors from Indiana
University that run the tissue bank were very impressed with our hospital, both the physical

environment and the hospital personnel. We were very proud and are grateful to all.

PROJECT BROTHERHOOD WOODLAWN CLINIC

On October 11, 2012 the Health Medicine Policy Research Group hosted a special 
Awards event to honor members of the public health and policy communities from veteran
practitioners to young justice-driven activists for vision, leadership and work that serves as
an embodiment of, or testament to, public health and social justice vision and values. The 2012 Group
(?Quentin?) Award was presented to Project Brotherhood (PB). PB has developed a community based
outreach and prevention program for African American men (AAM) residing in the Woodlawn and other
surrounding south side communities. This modei creates a ?safe? place for Black men to come and seek
services. Project Brotherhood goals are to increase the health awareness in black men, with PBS
definition of health being: complete physical, mental, social, economic and spiritual well being. Project
Brotherhood?s mission is to increase the health awareness in Black men by training Black men 
providing preventive health messages literature in a cultural gender specific way (age specific when

necessary). Congratulations on this well deserved honor.

3 Page

Page 32 of 36

RECOGNITION
Ravi Shah, MD

Ravi Grivois?Shah, MD, MPH, FAAFP, a family physician is the new physician member of the American
Academy of Family Physicians Board of Directors. The AAFP represents 105,900 physicians and medical
students nationwide. Dr. Shah was elected to a one-year term by the New Physician Constituency
during the AAFP National Conference of Special Constituencies and was confirmed by the 
governing body, the Congress of Delegates. In this role he will advocate on behalf of family physicians
and patients nationwide to inspire positive change in the US. health care system. Ravi is lead physician
for the Morton East school-based Health Center and a faculty member of the Cook County-Loyola-

Provident Family Medicine Residency. We congratulate Dr. Shah on this achievement.
Marlon Burns

At the Annual Datacenter Conference and Expo, Datacenter Dynamics Converged held on October 16,
2012 at the Chicago Hyatt Regency McCormick Place Marlon Burns, our Chief Technology Officer made a
presentation entitled "Journey to the Cloud? that was very well received. Marlon manages the Health
System's technical services teams, which span servers, networks, desktop, help desk, and data center
operations. He also evaluates, selects, and recommends technologies used by CCH HS. We thank Marlon

fora job well done.

4 Page

Page 33 of 36

NEWS

 

All Sections

Home Featured Articles Cook County

On the mend

Cook County's health system is in recovery
October 25, 2012

Recommend 0 Tweet 0 0

One of the highlights of the budget presentation
Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle
made last week to the Tribune editorial board was
an impressively streamlined $868 million spending
plan for the health system. In this case, what we
didn 't hear from Preckwinkle and health system
CEO Dr. Ram Raju was even more impressive.

  

("an 

Ram Cunk County I'l'ealth System.andC00k

Free Sales Tax Calculator
Calculate sales tax rates online State, City and County map location

Avalara.com

Free Medicare Plan List
Free List of Medicare Advantage Medicare Part Plans. Compare Now!

PlanPrescriber.com/Medicare

What we didn't hear were excuses for why the health care budget would gobble an ever greater
share of taxpayer dollars. Instead, the taxpayer subsidy for the hospital system in this year's
proposed $2.95 billion county budget is $254 million, the same as last year. The subsidy is down
35 percent from 2010.

Page 34 of 36

Winn-ml Maura-1mm?

om 

Nor did we hear excuse after excuse for why doctors couldn't bill patients, or why computer
systems weren't talking to each other, leading to massive inefficiency and a bleeding bottom line
that year after year tips the entire county budget into the red.

What we did hear is extremely encouraging: The health system's revenue shortfall will be vastly
diminished from $169 million last year to about $60 million by the end of this fiscal year. And
2013 should be even better, if the federal government comes through as expected as it should
with a waiver allowing the county to gain reimbursement for Medicaid patients already being
treated in the system. That would be a $197 million booster shot for the system.

These numbers are reassuring, not only to county taxpayers but to patients who depend on the
system.

Let's remember, not too many years ago, there was no assurance that county leaders could keep
this system a?oat. Costs were rocketing out of control. County pols insisted that Oak Forest
Hospital and Provident Hospital couldn't be downsized even as patient loads dwindled and entire
wings emptied out.

The pols defended the inpatient-heavy edifice not because it delivered care efficiently, but because
that's where the patronage jobs were.

In their private moments, though, the wiser county board members acknowledged that the
system was financially unsustainable.

Then, in 2007, a jolt to the system: A Cook County state's attorney's legal opinion told county
board members something most didn't know: They had no legal obligation to maintain the
county's huge and underutilized hospital infrastructure to provide care to the poor. In essence,
the opinion said, Cook County government operates its hospitals and clinics out of the goodness
of its taxpayers' hearts. "Illinois law does give Cook County the power, but not the obligation, to
maintain a county hospital," the opinion said.

No, most county board members didn't seriously consider ending the county's health care
mission. But that letter did turn a spotlight on the county's rampant mismanagement of the
system.

Doctors weren't regularly billing patients, assuming they couldn't pay. How many
undocumented immigrants or people from other counties came to the Cook County health care
system for taxpayer?subsidized free care? County health care officials didn't know. The abuses of
the system were legendary: The county mailed prescription drugs to people outside the county
and allowed "off the books" surgeries for health staffers' families, Cook County Board member
Larry Suffredin tells us.

Medicare Healthcare Plans
Compare All Medicare Plans Today. Annual Enrollment Started Oct 15th!

MedicareConsumerGuide.com

 

UnitedHealthCare Plans
Find an Affordable Plan with Full Coverage in Illinois. Apply Online!



 

Page 35 of 36

A 2006 Northwestern University report concluded what was obvious to all: Political patronage
was crippling public health care in Cook County. Good doctors were kept from doing their best
work because of incompetence at the top of the system. And the Cook County commissioners who
oversee the system had no clue about how to fix it.

In 2008, Suffredin cut a deal: He supported a county sales tax hike in exchange for then-Board
President Todd Stroger's promise to relinquish control of the county's health system to an
independent board. We were highly skeptical that Stroger would follow through. But he did.

Four years later, Preckwinkle has kept her promise to roll back that tax. And the independent
board, thanks to smart moves and savvy hires by former board chief Warren Batts and current
leader David Carvalho, is leading a health care system revival.

Doctors are billing patients. The system is moving to a more efficient model at all levels, from
procurement of supplies to delivery of preventive care and advanced treatments. Oak Forest has
been converted into a regional outpatient center to better serve patients.

A decade ago, Cook County pols ran the health care system as a ?efdom of corruption and
cronyism. Health care delivery finished a distant second to doling out jobs or contracts to friends
and political allies.

Today, this system is on the mend.

That's good news for Cook County's taxpayers and for all the people who depend on this system to
deliver quality care.

LPN Training Schools
Enroll In a LPN Program Now Earn Your Certificate Quickly.

.net

Health Plans - $30 Month
Get Affordable Health Insurance Online - Plans from $30 Month!



Featured Articles

   

9
ti; . a

As other polls show tight Decoding the diabetic diet For heart health, fish oil pills

race, Gallup stands apart not the answer: study

.. Page 36 of 36

