HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: May 9, 2014
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System will
meet on Friday, May 16, 2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference
Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

8:00/Chairman Wiese

II.

Public Speakers

8:00-8:05

III.

Report from Chief of Human Resources

8:05-8:15/Gladys Lopez

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of April 18, 2014

8:15-8:20/Chairman Wiese

   

B. Any items listed under Sections IV and V
V.

Closed Session Items
A.
B.
C.
D.

8:20-8:45

Recruitment of Permanent Chief Executive Officer for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other
health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Wiese
Members:
Board Chairman Carvalho (Ex-Officio) and Directors Ramirez and Velasquez

 