Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Tuesday, December 18, 2012 at the hour of 12:00 P.M. at 1900 W.
Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Michael called the meeting to order; however, a quorum was not present. The Committee continued
to receive information until approximately 12:20 P.M.; at this time, a quorum was reached, and the Committee
began to consider the items presented.
Present:

Chairman Edward L. Michael and Director Carmen Velasquez (2)
Mary Driscoll (non-Director Member)

Absent:

Director Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Krishna Das, MD – System Interim Director of
Quality and Patient Safety
David Goldberg, MD – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital
of Cook County
Terry Mason, MD – System Chief Medical Officer
Ed Mendez, MPH, RN – National Association of
Public Hospitals and Health Systems

II.

Linda Rae Murray, MD – Cook County Department
of Public Health
Jessica Pipersburg – Cook County Department of
Public Health
Tanda Russell – System Interim Chief Nursing
Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board

Public Speakers
Chairman Michael asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Report from System Chief Medical Officer
Dr. Terry Mason, System Chief Medical Officer, stated that the System participated in a survey some months
ago; the survey solicited senior leadership’s thoughts on a number of issues identified by the National
Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems (NAPH). He noted that information would be provided
later in the meeting on the subject, under Items V(B) and (C).

IV.

Report from System Interim Chief Nursing Officer (Attachment #1)
A. Nursing Dashboard
B. National Patient Safety Goals

Page 1 of 89

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, December 18, 2012
Page 2

IV.

Report from System Interim Chief Nursing Officer (continued)
Tanda Russell, System Interim Chief Nursing Officer, presented the Nursing Dashboard, which included
information on nurse staffing activities that took place in 2012 and plans for 2013. Ms. Russell’s report also
included information on nurse sensitive indicators and National Patient Safety Goals. The Committee reviewed
and discussed the information.
Director Velasquez inquired regarding the status of hiring bilingual or bicultural staff; she asked whether a
specific goal has been identified. Ms. Russell responded that currently there is not a specific goal; however, the
administration is very conscientious of certain service lines and areas where that may be a requirement.
Director Velasquez stated that she thinks there should be specific goals set. Ms. Russell provided further
information on resources for interpretive services that are currently available to System staff. Chairman
Michael inquired whether an assessment has been done regarding the areas that the administration believes have
the greatest need for multilingual or bilingual nurses; he noted that before a specific level or goal is set, one
needs to know where the need is greatest. Ms. Russell stated that she will follow up on the subject with Miriam
Gonzalzles, System Director of Multicultural Affairs, and will report back to the Committee in January or
February.

V.

Report from System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety
A. Update on preparation of response to The Joint Commission
Dr. Krishna Das, System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety, provided an update on the preparation
activities for the response to The Joint Commission’s (TJC) recent survey at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County. The response that was due within forty-five days was submitted yesterday; another response that
is due to be submitted within sixty days is expected to be submitted within the end of this week - at that point,
all submissions will be complete. It is hoped that a response from TJC regarding a final accreditation decision
will be received some time after the holidays. Dr. Das noted that the main lesson from the submissions is that
the System put a lot of process improvements in place, as a result of TJC’s survey. She added that, even though
staff has intensively worked the areas where the hospital was cited, some of these are principals that hold
hospital-wide; it is expected that the administration can expand and solidify the gains made throughout the
hospitals, especially in areas of perioperative management.
B. National Association of Public Hospitals (NAPH) collaborative
C. Committee Education - Reliability and its Link to Quality (Attachment #2)
Dr. Das stated that there is a private-public collaboration called Partnership for Patients, which has been
supported by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). As a part of that, NAPH has developed a
hospital engagement network to support quality improvement within safety net hospitals.
Two nursing teams have been working on this; they are focusing on looking at the reduction of falls and
development of pressure ulcers in the hospital. Critical to this initiative has been the coach, Ed Mendez, MPH,
RN, of NAPH, and his staff. One of the educational sessions that Mr. Mendez offers is regarding reliability and
its link to quality, which will be presented to the Committee today. Dr. Das introduced Mr. Mendez, who
proceeded to review the presentation on Reliability and its Link to Quality.
Chairman Michael noted that one of the key elements discussed was a focus on simplification of internal
processes. He related an example of this type of issue that occurred during his previous work experiences. He
and his colleagues had spent a great deal of time developing and implementing a set of processes and
procedures. When it was determined that there was a failure to follow the procedures by the staff, there was a
examination of potential reasons. Initially, the thought was that there simply was a need for more training.
Page 2 of 89

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, December 18, 2012
Page 3

V.

Report from System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety
C. Committee Education - Reliability and its Link to Quality (continued)
However, after further review, they realized that they had created procedures that were so complicated and
difficult to follow that either 1) no matter how much training was provided to staff, they probably would not be
able to follow the procedures; or 2) the procedures had become so burdensome that staff then started making
shortcuts that were creating risks as a result. So the simplification piece from a standpoint of the people who
“do” the process is a very important aspect that should not be underestimated. Mr. Mendez agreed, and added
that the front line workers need some level of their time allocated to learn to do the improvement work.
Chairman Michael recalled the earlier discussion held regarding nursing vacancies. He stated that, as the
System goes through the process of trying to create a high-quality, highly reliable medical system over the next
several years, it is very important to recognize that time needs to be given to staff to focus on these sorts of
things - if staff is trying to do the job of two other people because there are vacancies, it becomes very difficult
to give them that time.
D. System Quality Plan for 2013 and Dashboard Development (Attachment #3)
i.
Review of hospital-acquired conditions, readmission rates and patient satisfaction measurements
for other health care providers/institutions in Cook County
Dr. Das provided an overview of the information provided on the System Quality Plan for 2013 and Dashboard
Development. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Chairman Michael stated that the idea of trying to identify drivers of these key indicators is very important - it
would be nice to think that if there was a focus on those specific things, and improvements were made, that this
would in turn drive an increase in the perception/recommended hospital area. Dr. Das stated that many people
agree that there are a few very important drivers, such as “responsiveness of hospital staff,” – one of the things
that patients do complain about is when they use the call button and do not receive a response. There may be
other drivers that the staff feels are important; internal discussions can be held regarding that subject.
With regard to readmissions, Chairman Michael stated that it might be helpful to look at the different segments
of the patient population that are at higher risk for readmission, to see whether these drivers could also be
applicable in those cases, or to see whether staff could do other things to make an impact in reducing the
readmissions rate. Dr. Das stated that most of the insight into what can prevent readmissions comes from the
same populations, by and large.
Dr. Das stated that one of the limitations faced is regarding having ongoing data on readmissions. With the
System’s data, there are two things to recognize. First, most of the data is coming directly from CMS, and their
data is rolled in eighteen month intervals. It is published somewhat infrequently, so this is something that staff
would have to generate internally in order to present it to the Board; however, it appears that staff will be able to
generate the same logic and get those numbers out. Secondly, the System receives data from CMS that suggests
that only two-thirds of the readmissions come back to the System. The overall readmission rate is
approximately 22%; 16% of the readmissions come back to the System’s hospital, and 7% go to outside
hospitals. Therefore, staff is challenged in how they can capture data on the readmissions that go to outside
hospitals; she added that perhaps staff should focus on the internal readmissions, which staff can track over
time. With regard to Chairman Michael’s question regarding how long before the Committee might see some
data relating to this, Dr. Das stated that it would depend on the urgency. It could be a month or longer;
however, she is not sure how accurate the data will be because the benchmark is going to be the CMS data.

Page 3 of 89

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, December 18, 2012
Page 4

V.

Report from System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety (continued)
With regard to hospital acquired conditions, Dr. Das stated that there are generally three areas: direct carerelated, infections, and medication-related. She asked for further input from the Committee on how to define
for the Committee’s focus. Chairman Michael stated that he would like to have the input of Dr. Ram Raju,
Chief Executive Officer. He noted that there is a lot of discussion around the penalties that are assessed with the
infection piece of it – he stated that, if that is where the focus of the government is, maybe that is where the
System ought to initially focus. He added that the other areas, including falls and medication errors, are very
important, too. Dr. Das noted that there are penalties associated with those areas, as well. Dr. Das stated that
the data is currently being collected and is available for the hospital acquired conditions– it is just a matter of
choice as to which data the Committee would like to have tracked. She cautioned that, although data on adverse
drug events is being collected, it is her opinion that it is currently underreported. Because these are now being
reported through the MERS system, more reports of these events are being seen. She is unsure whether this is
currently a useful indicator to follow, because she is predicting that more adverse drug events will be reported in
a short period of time, because reporting has become more anonymous and is easier.
Chairman Michael inquired whether the Committee members had any specific thoughts on the subject. He
noted that it would be best if there was a focus on one or two items (no more than three) in order to focus the
System in a concentrated way. Dr. Linda Rae Murray, Chief Medical Officer of the Cook County Department
of Public Health, noted that it was her understanding that, in most health systems, the biggest impact on patients
or the largest number of contacts do not take place in a hospital setting; rather, they take place in an outpatient
setting. She stated that if the System is going to track key indicators, it seems that there should be something in
there that is based outside of the hospital setting. Chairman Michael agreed, and noted that it has been an issue
that has been raised by others; he added that the fact that indicators may be chosen that are more hospital and
inpatient centric does not necessarily exclude the System from having other goals for improvement in other
areas - it may be necessary to come up with indicators that are more inclusive of the Ambulatory and
Community Health Network of Cook County (ACHN) patients and contacts. However, that begs the question:
what should those measures be? Dr. Murray responded that there are a number of standard community-based
clinical measures that exist around the country. She stated that ACHN has a whole effort to improve quality,
and she would defer to their judgment. Chairman Michael stated that the Committee needs to choose a few
things that they think are most important for the System to focus on for improvement; he added that the reality
is that the System is tracking almost an endless number of things right now, for various reasons.
Ms. Driscoll stated that she feels that it is important to choose at least one indicator that can be looked at
System-wide; she suggested that one such indicator could be patient engagement. She noted that this is
something that CMS is going to be looking at very seriously for payment issues, as well. Chairman Michael
agreed that it is a good suggestion; he asked Dr. Das to find out whether the System is tracking the right things
today to be able to determine levels of patient engagement. If the Committee desires to make that a primary
goal of the improvement effort, what additional work would have to be done to make sure that staff is tracking
the right things and doing so in an accurate and reliable way? Ms. Driscoll added that she and Director
Velasquez felt that this indicator should include data relating to language and language barriers.
Dr. Mason noted that, based on what is happening with the 1115 Waiver, the System also has some
responsibility to monitor the quality of care with its contracted providers. He stated that further thought should
be given to the question of what those indicators and resources should look like, in order for the System to come
up with meaningful indicators to ensure that the System is meeting those quality indicators from its contractors.

Page 4 of 89

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, December 18, 2012
Page 5

V.

Report from System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety (continued)
Chairman Michael stated that, although the drivers reviewed by Dr. Das are clearly more hospital-based drivers,
there is no reason that the System could not expand the drivers to look at things that relate more to the ACHN
patients or other patients beyond those who are just hospitalized. When the Committee further reviews Ms.
Driscoll’s suggestion about patient engagement versus patient satisfaction, it ought to consider the overlap of
those two - maybe there is a way to accommodate both. Dr. Das added that staff is in the process of getting
more robust outpatient satisfaction data, as well.

VI.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Receive and file the update on the Cook County Department of Public Health’s 2015 Strategic Plan
(Attachment #4)
Dr. Murray presented the update on the Cook County Department of Public Health’s 2015 Strategic Plan.
The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Director Velasquez, seconded by Chairman Michael, moved to receive and file the update
to the Cook County Department of Public Health’s 2015 Strategic Plan. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committees
i. Provident Hospital of Cook County
ii. John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Dr. Pierre Wakim, President of the Executive Medical Staff (EMS) of Provident Hospital of Cook County,
was unable to attend this meeting as he was attending a conference; he will provide a report at the next
Committee Meeting.
Dr. David Goldberg, President of the EMS of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, presented his
report to the Committee regarding the subjects that were discussed at the recent EMS meeting. There was a
discussion regarding the revisions to the Stroger Hospital Medical Staff Bylaws that were presented to the
Board and approved on December 14th. Additionally, there was a presentation made by the Cancer
Committee.
With regard to the Cancer Committee’s presentation, Dr. Goldberg stated that, as an institution, Stroger
Hospital is certified by the American College of Surgeons as a Cancer Hospital; that designation is greatly
valued. The next site visit will be mid-year of this next year. At the EMS meeting, Dr. Urjeet Patel
provided information on some successful projects that targeted improvement, including improvements
around timing with the infusion center, and Radiation/Oncology moving to timed appointments to try and
reduce some of the wait times for patients.
A couple of issues that were concerns based on the last site visit were raised by Dr. Patel during his
presentation. Dr. Patel is aware that those issues will likely come up again, as he believes that they have not
been fully addressed at this time.

Page 5 of 89

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, December 18, 2012
Page 6

VII. Action Items
A. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, November 13, 2012
Director Velasquez, seconded by Chairman Michael, moved to accept the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of November 13, 2012. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections VI, VII and VIII

VIII. Closed Session Item
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #5)
Note: the Committee did not recess the regular session and convene into closed session.
Director Velasquez, seconded by Chairman Michael, moved to approve the Medical Staff
Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes.
THE
MOTION
CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
IX.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Michael declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Edward L. Michael, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 6 of 89

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 18, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 7 of 89

 Nursing Report
Nursing Report
Quality and Patient Safety Meeting
Dec. 18, 2012
Dec. 18, 2012

1
Page 8 of 89

 RN Staffing 2012
RN Staffing 2012
Facilityy

Filled

Vacant

Total

240‐Cermak

80

23

103

241‐JTDC

18

3

21

890‐Corporate

4

5

9

891‐Provident

86

11

97

893‐ACHN

125

13

138

894‐CORE

13

0

13

895‐Public Health

63

8

71

919

213

1132

20

18

38

1328

294

1622

897‐Stroger
897
Stroger
898‐Oak Forest

Total

2
Page 9 of 89

 Stroger
Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Nursing

182

170

181

156

Perioperative

26

29

29

30

Emergency Room

21

21

21

22

Total

229

220

231

208

Division

3
Page 10 of 89

 RN Staffing 2013
RN Staffing 2013
Facility

Filled

Vacant

Total

240‐Cermak

89

12

101

241‐JTDC

19

2

21

890‐Corporate

4

1

5

891‐Provident

79

7

86

893‐ACHN

141

4

145

894‐CORE

12

1

13

895‐Public Health

50

4

54

65

65

884

153

1037

1278

249

1527

896‐ 1115 Waiver
897‐Stroger
g

Total

4
Page 11 of 89

 Nursing Sensitive Indicators
Nursing Sensitive Indicators
• Falls
• Skin Integrity
Ski
i
• HCAPS
• HPPD
5
Page 12 of 89

 National Patient Safety Goals
National Patient Safety Goals
• Handoff Communication
Handoff Communication
• Medication Administration
Medication Administration
• Universal Protocol
U i
lP t l
• Hospital Acquired Conditions
– CAUTI
6
Page 13 of 89

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 18, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 14 of 89

 NAPH Safety Network

High Reliability
for hospital quality and safety
(Cook County Hospital Board Presentation 12/18/12)
Ed Mendez, RN, MPH
Improvement Coach

Page 15 of 89

 Partnership for Patients (PfP)
A public‐private partnership to help improve the quality, safety and 
A
public‐private partnership to help improve the quality safety and
affordability of health care for all Americans, funded through the Affordable 
Care Act.
PfP goals
PfP goals:
1. Decrease 9 preventable hospital‐acquired conditions (HACs) by 40%
o Infections (CLABSI, CAUTI, SSI, VAP)
Infections (CLABSI CAUTI SSI VAP)
o Morbidity from immobility (falls, pressure ulcers, VTEs)
o Adverse events (drugs, obstetrical)
2. Reduce preventable readmissions by 20%
3. Address culture change and governance issues

Page 16 of 89

 NAPH Safety Network (NSN)
The PfP funds 26 Hospital Engagement Networks (HENs) to provide a wide 
The
PfP funds 26 Hospital Engagement Networks (HENs) to provide a wide
array of initiatives and activities to improve patient safety. 
HENs represent close to 4,000 hospitals nationwide. The NSN is the only 
safety net focused HEN in the PfP community
safety net‐focused HEN in the PfP community.
HENs will:
HENs will: 
• conduct intensive training programs to teach and support hospitals in 
making patient care safer.
• provide technical assistance to hospitals so they can achieve quality 
measurement goals.
• establish and implement a system to track and monitor hospital progress 
in meeting quality improvement goals.

Page 17 of 89

 Health Care is Not Highly Reliable
• Hospital CEOs in 2009 identified “patient
patient safety and
quality” as the second most pressing issue (ACHE)
• Health care-acquired
care acquired infections affect 5% to 10% of
hospitalized patients
• 1
1.5
5 million
illi A
Americans
i
are iinjured
j d annually
ll b
by
medication errors (Institute of Medicine, 2007)
• 149 new cases off wrong-site
it ((patient
ti t or procedure)
d )
surgery were reported to The Joint Commission in
2009 (890 cases since 1996)

Page 18 of 89

 Health Care Is Not Highly Reliable: We Fail to
Do Simple
p Things
g Well
Wash Hands……………………….………….. 60% Reliable
Patients Understand Meds / Problem………. 40% Reliable
Central Lines Placed w/ Proper Technique… 60% Reliable
Basal Insulin for Inpt Uncontrolled DM……... 40% Reliable
VTE Prophylaxis…………………………..…...
p y
50% Reliable

Page 19 of 89

 Adverse Events / Health Care Errors
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Delayed or missed diagnoses
Medication errors
Wrong side surgery
Wrong patient surgery
Equipment failure
Patient identity
Transfusion errors
Mislabeled specimen
Patient falls
Ti
Time
d
delay
l errors
Laboratory errors
Radiology errors
P
Procedural
d l error

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Lost, delayed
Lost
delayed, or failures to follow up
reports
Retention of foreign object following
surgery
g y
Contamination of drugs, equipment
Intravascular air embolism
Failure to treat neonatal
hyperbilirubinemia
Stage lll or lV pressure ulcers
acquired after admission
Wrong gas delivery
Deaths associated with restraints or
bedrails
Sexual or physical assault
Venous thromboembolism (VTE)

Page 20 of 89

 Why care about Healthcare Quality & Safety?

We all have
Si ifi
Significant
t Others
Oth
that need health care.

Page 21 of 89

7

    

An affiliate [1f NAPH and NPHHI
TRANSFORMATIUNCENTER

Caring about He althc are Quality Safety f0 

 

Ma ma
12/14/12

 

Page 22 of 89

Culture of Safety and High Reliability
Organizations (HRO)
The Joint Commission’s vision: 2009, 2010, and beyond:
• Goal to promote a “Culture of Safety” in accredited health care
organizations
•
•
•
•
•

Standards
National Patient Safetyy Goals
Reporting of Sentinel Events
Expectation of Root Cause Analysis
Core measures

• Nudging hospitals towards becoming high reliability organizations
(HRO).
(HRO)

Page 23 of 89

 Three Requirements For Achieving 
High Reliability
• Leadership 
Leadership
• Safety Culture
• Robust Process Improvement
Chassin, MR and Loeb, JM  The Ongoing Quality 
Improvement Journey: Next Stop High Reliability
Improvement Journey: Next Stop, High Reliability    
Health Affairs, 30, no.4 (2011):559‐568
Page 24 of 89

  

An affiliate [if NAPH and NPHHI
TRANSFORMATIUNCENTER

Becoming a High Reliability Organization:
Operational Advice for Hospital Leaders

Prepared for:

Agency for Healtheare Research and Quality
US. Department of Health and Human Services
540 Gaither Road

Roekville. MD 20850

Appendix p58 83 Cincinnati Children?s High Reliability Journey

Page 25 of 89

Creating a high reliability organization that is safe 
requires that leaders recognize the following:
requires that leaders recognize the following: 
• Culture is the foundation for vision and strategy
gy
• Transparency is the key to change the culture. 
• Safety must be the overarching strategy. 
• Leaders must take ownership for setting the climate 
g
and focusing the work. 

Page 26 of 89

 Hospitals Must Foster a Safety Culture
“A different type
yp of accountability
y [[is needed],
],
one that requires an employee to raise her
hand in the interest of safety. Not reporting
your error, preventing the system and others
from learning – this is the greatest evil of all.”
David Marx, JD
2001
Patient Safety and the “Just Culture”
Page 27 of 89

 High Reliability Defined
•

“Achieving
“A
hi i a high
hi h degree
d
off safety
f t or reliability
li bilit d
despite
it
operating in hazardous conditions.” (Pronovost, 2006)

•

Organizations that operate under very trying conditions all
the time and yet manage to have fewer…accidents.” (Weick
& Sutcliffe,
Sutcliffe Managing the Unexpected
Unexpected, 2007)

•

“HROs
HROs are organizations with systems in place that are
exceptionally consistent in accomplishing their goals and
avoiding potentially catastrophic errors.” (AHRQ, April 2008)

Page 28 of 89

 Reliability Index:
• Ch
Chaotic
ti process: Failure
F il
in
i greater
t than
th 20% off
opportunities
pp
• 10-1: 1 or 2 failures out of 10 opportunities
• 10-2: 1 failure or less out of 100 opportunities
• 10-3: 1 failure or less out of 1,000 opportunities
• 10-4: 1 failure or less out of 10
10,000
000 opportunities
• 10-5: 1 failures or less out of 100,000 opportunities
• 10-6: 1 failures or less out of 1,000,000 opportunities

Page 29 of 89

 Average Rate Per Exposure of Catastrophes
and Associated Deaths Per Activity
(“R li bilit ”)
(“Reliability”)
Amalberti, et al. Ann Intern Med.2005;142:756-764

High Reliability
O
Organizations
i ti
(HROs)

Page 30 of 89

 Level 1. Vigilance and hard work
(1 or 2 failures out of 10 opportunities or
80 – 90%)
• Awareness and training
• Feedback of data
• Personal reminders by an expeditor
• Standardization ((broad, general)
g
)

17
Page 31 of 89

 Model 10-1 Reliability
• Common equipment.
• Standard orders sheets.
• Personal check lists.
• Working harder next time
time.
• Feedback of information on compliance.
• Awareness and training
training.

Basic failure prevention – Intent, vigilance and hard work
Page 32 of 89

 Level 2. Human Factors & Reliability
Engineering

(5 or fewer failures out of 100 opportunities -- 95%)
• Redundancy
• Checklists and reminders (built into the process)
• Differentiation such as color coding
• Real time identification of failures such as drug interactions
• The default is the desired action, for example standard
order sets
• Standardization of essential tasks
Page 33 of 89

 Model 10-2 Reliability
• Decision aids and reminders built into the system.
• Desired action the default (based on evidence).
• Standardization of process.
• Takes advantage of habits and patterns
patterns.
• Redundancy.
• Scheduling.

Page 34 of 89

 Level 3. Sophisticated behavioral designs
(5, or fewer, failures out of 1,000 opportunities or 99%)
• Take advantage of habits and patterns
• Make the system visible
• Clear and unambiguous communication
• High reliability organization

21
Page 35 of 89

 Attributes of High Reliability Organizations
• Preoccupation with failure
• Reluctance to simplify interpretation of problems
• Sensitivity to operations
• Commitment to resilience
• Deference to expertise

Page 36 of 89

 Attributes of High Reliability Organizations
1. Preoccupation with failure
• Small failures are as important
p
as large
g failures
• Avoid complacency:
•
•

Success breeds confidence in a single way of doing things and
generates complacenc
complacency
Ex. “My patient has never had a Potassium overdose, so why
should I change?”

• Success narrows perceptions
• Worry about normalization of unexpected events

Page 37 of 89

 Attributes of High Reliability Organizations:
2. Reluctance to simplify interpretations
•

Closer attention to context leads to more differentiation
of world views and mindsets

•

Look for the root cause, not the obvious cause
•

•

Ex. ‘Dumb resident wrote a 10-fold overdose’

Root cause: “Dumb” resident was up all night in ED
with seizing kid, called for verbal order

Page 38 of 89

 Attributes of High Reliability Organizations:
2. Reluctance to simplify interpretations
•

Differentiation (diverse viewpoints) brings a varied
picture of potential consequences  better
precautions and responses to early warning signs.

•

Over dependency on insiders leads to simplification.
•

Ex “This
Ex.
This is the way we do things here
here…”

Page 39 of 89

 Attributes of High Reliability Organizations:
3. Sensitivity to operations
• Organization designed around the frontline, not the other
way around.
• Make continuous adjustments that prevent errors from
accumulating and enlarging based on reporting from
operations, not the “master plan”
•

Ex. Daily safety huddles

• Safety behaviors are clear: Roles of clinicians & parents
• 200% accountability
• Situation awareness

Page 40 of 89

 Attributes of High Reliability Organizations:
4. Commitment to resilience
•

Develop capabilities to detect, contain, and
bounce back from those inevitable errors that are
part of an indeterminate world
•

Ex Trigger tools (and automation)
Ex.

•

A focus on intelligent reaction, improvisation

•

Correct errors before they worsen and cause more
serious harm
•

Ex. “Stop the line”

Page 41 of 89

 Attributes of High Reliability Organizations:
5. Deference to expertise
•

Decisions are made on the frontline, and authorityy
migrates to the people with the most expertise,
regardless of their rank

•

Avoidance of the structure of deference to the
powerful, coercive or senior

Page 42 of 89

 A Mindful Infrastructure for High Reliability
Fundamental Characteristics

General Orientation

Preoccupation
with Failure

Reluctance
R
l t
to Simplify

Sensitivity
S
iti it tto
Operations

Impact
on Processes

Capability to
Discover and
Manage
Unexpected
Events
(High-Reliability)

State of
Mi df l
Mindfulness

Ultimate
Outcome

Exceptionally
Safe,
Consistently
High
Quality Care

Commitment
C
it
t
To Resilience

Deference to
Expertise

Weick, Karl, “Managing the Unexpected”
Page 43 of 89

 Practical Solutions Toward High Reliability
• Zero defect philosophy: Care defects not accepted as inevitable
• Stop the line: Responsibility to fix dangerous processes
• Systems
y
thinking:
g Systems
y
and p
processes drive outcomes
• Standardization: Checklists, boarding passes, order sets
• Data driven: Evidenced-based decision making
• Technology: Tools for supporting ideal processes

Page 44 of 89

 Practical Solutions Toward High Reliability
• Leadership: “Patient first” mantra
• O
Organizational
i ti
l clarity:
l it Mission
Mi i statement,
t t
t goals/incentives
l /i
ti
aligned
• Human factors integration: Fatigue, staffing ratios, labels
• Culture: “Patients first,”
, collegiality,
g y, teamwork,,
communication, reporting (TeamSTEPPS program)
• Simulation: Prepare in advance for high risk situations

Page 45 of 89

 Barriers for Organizations desiring
to be an HRO:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Focus on success
Underdeveloped cognitive infrastructure
Focus on efficiency
Inefficient learning (episodic)
Lack of diversity (focused conformity)
Information & communications filtering
Reject or excuse early warning signs of quality
degradation

Source: Weick and Sutcliffe
Page 46 of 89

 Common Reasons Health Care Organizations
Do Not Behave Like HROs
• Current improvement methods excessively dependent
on vigilance and hard work
• Benchmarking to limited outcomes gives clinicians and
leaders a false sense of process reliability
• A permissive attitude toward clinical autonomy allows
for wide and unjustifiable performance variation
• Processes are rarely designed to meet specific,
articulated reliability goals
Source: IHI experience with 40 organizations working to achieve higher levels for CMS Core Measures
Page 47 of 89

  

An affiliate [if NAPH and NPHHI
5 TRANSFORMATIUNCENTER

Influencing Behaviors at the Sharp End

 

Design of Design of Design of

Policy a Culture Work

Protocol Processes 
of

Design of Technology 
Structure Environment

Behaviors
of Individuals Groups

 

 

?You haye to manage a system. The - bad system will DEFEAT

system doesn't manage itself-" I a good person eyery time."
W. Edwards Deming W- Edwards Deming
0 utcomes

Adapted From R. Cook and D. Woods. Dperaiing of the Sheet: End: The Dompiexiiy of Human Error 
El EEIDE Heald'loare Performance ImproyemenL LLC. ALL HIE-HTS RESERVED.



 

Page 48 of 89

An affiliate {if NAPH and NPHHI
TRANSFORMATIUNCENTER

Optimizing Reliability

 
  
   

'7
105 
Behawur
Design in ?pthnize'l-lumm Perfmmance Acc?untahi Iity
105 at the paint uf penple int-31m:
I Easytn 
.bmye mg? Human Factor
?Stake '33? (?539" Fm We? Process ., Protocol
10'4 
10?3 Rall?blht?y I Safetyasthe core value
. I Behavinr expecta?uns fur ennr preventim
I Coilabnra?ue lnterac?ve Teams
I Leadership behavinrs fur relia bilil?f
1 [1'1
Prucess, Frntucul
?Tech nu'ogy I Remurce a?ncaijun
10?1 I Evidence?based practice bundies}

I Techn?iogy enahniers

 

IE 2611] Ferfannance Impmvement. LL-C- ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

Page 49 of 89

Conclusions
• Adverse events in hospitals
p
occur frequently
q
y
• Targeted interventions for high frequency events are
valuable, but won’t move organizations past mediocrity
• To make quantum leaps in quality and patient safety use
tenets of reliability science
• Integrate attributes of highly reliable organizations
• Understand and overcome the barriers to high reliability in
health care
• And remember…
Why do we care about Healthcare Quality?
…… ‘Our significant Others’
Page 50 of 89

 Contact Information
Ed ardo (Ed) Mendez,
Eduardo
Mende RN,
RN MPH
Improvement Coach
National Association of Public Hospitals
y
and Health Systems
1301 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 950
Washington,
as gto , DC
C 20004
000
202 585 0135 tel   202 495 3371 fax
emendez@naph.org   www.naph.org

Page 51 of 89

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 18, 2012

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 52 of 89

 Dashboard Discussion
Dashboard Discussion
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
18 December 2012

Page 53 of 89

 Key Outcome: Patient Satisfaction

 

 

   

Previous Current Percentile Percentile
Domains and Questions Apr-Jun Jul-Sep Rank Rank
Rate hospital 9-Recommend the hospital 369 62% 61% 17 17
Comm w! Nurses 374 65% 70% 6 6
Nurses treat with oourtesyfrespect 373 69% 76% A 5 5
Nurses listen carefully Nurses expl in way you understand 370 59% 65% A 7 7
Response of Hosp Staff 318 50% 51% A 5 5
Call button help soon as wanted Help toileting soon as you wanted 163 45% 44% It 1 1
Comm w} Doctors 374 81% 81% - 55 55
Doctors treat with courtesyirespect 371 86% 87% A 55 55
Doctors listen carefully Doctors expl in way you understand 37D 77% 76% 1r 59 59
Hospital Environment 374 54% 53% 1r 4 4
Cleanliness of hospital environment 372 52% 53% 1 1

Page 54 of 89

Key Outcome: Patient Satisfaction

ED Wait 
ED
Wait
times
‘Recommend
Recommend 
Hospital’
(HCAHPS)

Page 55 of 89

 Key Outcome: Readmissions
Discharge 
g
Appointments 
Scheduled
Medication 
Reconciliation 
Completed
p
30 day 
y
Readmission 
Rate

Page 56 of 89

 Key Outcome: Hospital Acquired 
Conditions
Direct Care 
Direct
Care
Related
Medication 
Medication
Related

Infections
Total 
Number of 
Events per 
Month

Page 57 of 89

 Key Outcome: Hospital Acquired 
Conditions
d
• Infections:
– CLABSI – central line infections
– CAUTI –
CAUTI urinary tract infections
urinary tract infections
– VAP – ventilator associated infections

• Patient Care:
P ti t C
– Falls
– Pressure Ulcers

• ADEs
Page 58 of 89

 DISCUSSION

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 18, 2012

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 60 of 89

    

2015 Strategic Plan
Annual Update for 2012
The 2015 Strategic Plan was approved in 2011 by the Cook County Health and Hospital
System Board and the Cook County Board of Commissioners. The 2012 Annual Update
provides a summary of activities working toward the 2015 Strategic Plan Goals.

Goal 1  
Leading Public Health in Cook County
Activities were underway in 2012 to ensure CCDPH continued to
take a leadership role in planning, providing for, and protecting
the health of all residents of Cook County. Efforts highlighted
below include increased integration within the Cook County
Health & Hospital System (CCHHS), work to address suburban
Cook County (SCC) health priorities, identified through the
WePlan 2015 process, updated community profiles and the
preparation for accreditation through the Public Health
Accreditation Board.

Community profiles were updated using the most recent data
available from national, state and local sources for suburban
Cook County, CCDPH region, CCDPH Districts and each
incorporated municipality. Data includes selected indicators
from U.S. Census data for 2000 and 2010, selected health
indicators and rates for maternal and child health, leading
causes of mortality and reportable communicable diseases for
the periods 2000-2002, 2003-2005 and 2006-2008. The profiles
are available to the public on the CCDPH website.

An Oral Health Services Unit in the Ambulatory and Community
Health Network (ACHN) was created for the provision of oral
health services including preventive and restorative throughout
the CCHHS. CCDPH has played an active role in developing a
job description for the director position and in the interview
process. CCDPH dental positions will be transitioned into the
newly created unit in 2013.The Harvey Tuberculosis (TB) clinical
services were transitioned to the newly configured CCHHS Chest
Clinic to integrate CCDPH TB control with the services of the
pulmonary specialty group and the CCHHS ACHN.

The CCDPH Accreditation process through Public Health
Accreditation Board (PHAB) began in 2011 with the goal of
advancing the quality and demonstrating accountability for
our work. To become accredited, CCDPH must meet national
standards of quality, excellence and leadership in 12 domains.
Each Executive Team member leads one or more of the 12
Accreditation Domains. To ensure unification of efforts, the
objectives in the agency’s Strategic Plan and WePlan were
aligned under one or more of the 12 Accreditation Domains.

CCDPH has leased space adjacent to the Vista Health Center
in the Palatine Opportunity Center for FY2103 with the goal
of relocating CCDPH WIC (Women, Infants, and Children
Supplemental Nutrition Program) services from the Rolling
Meadows courthouse to facilitate integration of pediatric
primary care with WIC.

CCDPH continued its active participation in the Northern
Illinois Public Health Consortium (NIPHC) comprised of the
health departments in the region including the City of Chicago
to promote and protect the health of the region through
networking and collaborative action.
(continued on reverse)

   

Page 61 of 89

 Goal 2  
Improving Health Status
The health status of our residents and communities will be
improved through implementation of a strategic health plan.
Multi-disciplinary teams were created to address the four
WePlan Health Priorities: cardiovascular disease, access to
care, adolescent sexual health and youth violence. Teams have
worked with academic partners and have developed evidencebased action plans.
Team members comprise a little over 10 percent of the entire
CCDPH staff. To ensure CCDPH staff has an understanding of the
four health priorities, the four teams created a joint task force
to coordinate staff training and awareness. A Public Health
101 course was developed and included case studies that were
developed for all four health priorities and a mandatory training
was completed by all CCDPH staff in May 2012.

Goal 3  
Achieving Accreditation & Assuring Quality
Continuous implementation of agency-wide performance
management strategies and meeting established national
standards for local public health practice will enable CCDPH to
deliver the highest quality programs and services.
A statement of intent along with the Public Health Accreditation
Board (PHAB) application was submitted. Formal PHAB
Accreditation Coordinator training and access to e-PHAB,
the official online venue was completed in July, 2012. Following
documentation submission, a site visit will be conducted.
It is anticipated that we will complete the process before the
end of 2013. Earning the accreditation designation
will provide our work with an additional standard of quality
and accountability that mirrors that of accredited health
departments across the nation.
A CCDPH multidisciplinary Quality Committee composed of
Executive Team leaders reviewed quality improvement (QI)
resources and assessed other local health department QI
experiences to inform the development of a CCDPH QI plan.

Page 62 of 89

The Committee’s purpose, structure and decision making
process have been finalized. Quality Improvement Teams
will convene to address each of the FY13 QI Indicators to
include PHAB indicators and improve health indicators in the
areas of Lead Poisoning Prevention, Environmental Health,
Communicable Disease, Tuberculosis and High Risk Infants.

Goal 4  
Strengthening Organizational Capacity
CCDPH continues to improve its organizational capacity to
meet county-wide public health responsibilities, employing
workforce development and specific initiatives focused on
communications, information technology, and fiscal resources.
In 2012, CCDPH’s Human Resources (HR) Unit was consolidated
with the CCHHS Human Resources Department as part of the
CCHHS Strategic Plan Vision 2015. This merger continues to
improve the efficiency and uniform provisions of HR services to
CCDPH and OFHC. CCDPH is currently working with CCHHS Staff
to develop a CCDPH Workforce Development Plan. The CCDPH
Workforce Development Plan will standardize the orientation
process for new hires to CCDPH including an orientation to the
CCHHS. The plan will also detail mandatory trainings such as
Public Health 101, Health Equity, Bloodborne Pathogens, HIPAA
and others.
CCDPH is now connected to the State of Illinois Rapid
Electronic Notification (SIREN) System. SIREN electronically
sends alerts from the Illinois Department of Public Health
(IDPH) Health Alert Network (HAN). SIREN allows CCDPH staff
to receive alerts via email and/or by logging into the SIREN
website. Additionally, SIREN will be used to conduct emergency
drills with CCDPH staff and external agencies that CCDPH may
coordinate with during an emergency response event.
To maintain fiscal viability, CCDPH submitted competitive bid
applications for funding to support work on the WePlan Health
Priorities (see Goal 2) and training opportunities to develop
competencies to support the accreditation process.

   

 Objective 1.1: By December 30, 2012, complete a study to assess the optimal organizational and governance structure for public health departments and
services in Cook County.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Convene a Blue Ribbon Panel (BRP) to examine
Postponed
Change in leadership and organizational structure of the CCDPH and CCHHS
Did not meet
the feasibility of one public health authority that
resulted in the deliberate choice to postpone convening of the BRP to address
goal.
consolidates all population-based and personal
the feasibility of one public health authority. Preliminary meetings were held
health services in Cook County.
with key leadership of the Northern Illinois Public Health Consortium including
Chicago Department of Health (CDPH). A report was issued by the Health and
Medicine Policy Research Group regarding the issue of a single health authority
in June 2009 and recommended consolidation of the two health departments.
This consolidation was tabled in October 2011 by the Office of the President, the
CCHHS Board of Directors, and the Mayor. CDPH chose to apply independently
as a local health department for national public health accreditation rather than
regionally with CCDPH reinforcing the postponement.
Seek funding to support BRP activities.
Postponed
Not Applicable.
Not Applicable.
BRP reports findings and recommendations.

Postponed

Not Applicable.

Not Applicable.

CCDPH will review the BRP findings and
Postponed
Not Applicable.
Not Applicable.
recommendations, and work with key
stakeholders on responding to the fiscal and
operational impacts.
Seek funding to implement recommendations in Postponed
Not Applicable.
Not Applicable.
support of the optimal organizational and
governance structure.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Jurisdictional funding and political constraints are barriers to creation of a single public health authority in Cook County. CDPH receives the majority of its funding for public
health activities through the federal government/CDC while CCDPH receives funding through the IDPH. There have been significant attempts made to ensure coordination
of activities between suburban Cook County and the collar counties of Lake, DuPage, McHenry, Kane, and Will in addition to the city of Chicago and County of Cook
primarily through the Northern Illinois Public Health Consortium and its Executive Team and Committee Structures. CCDPH is an active participant in the NIPHC and CCDPH
provides leadership on the various committees.

Page 63 of 89

 Objective 1.2: By December 30, 2012, complete a study to assess the optimal organizational and governance structure for public health departments and
services in Cook County.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Prepare updated community profiles for regions June 30, 2015
In April 2012, revised and updated community profiles were created using the
Met the goal.
and communities in Cook County, which present
most recent data available from national, state and local sources for suburban
sociodemographic and health outcome data, as
Cook County, CCDPH region, CCDPH Districts and each incorporated
well as trends between specific time periods.
municipalities. Data provided includes selected indicators from U.S. Census data
for 2000 and 2010, selected health indicators and rates for maternal and child
health, leading causes of mortality and reportable communicable diseases for
the periods 2000-2002, 2003-2005 and 2006-2008. The profiles are posted on
CCDPH’s website.
Convene a workgroup to assess each agency’s
June 30, 2015
Establishment of Blue Ribbon Panel has been postponed (See Objective 1.1).
On target to
capacity, identify shared priorities, and provide
meet goal.
input to the Blue Ribbon Panel.
Under the leadership of CCDPH staff, the Northern Illinois Public Health
Consortium’s Epidemiology Subcommittee conducted an assessment of local
health department lead health (IPLAN) priorities for all 11member health
departments. A summary of the assessment findings were presented to the
NIPHC Board in July, 2012. Results will be used to identify opportunities for
strategic alignment, regionalized approaches and common health status
measures for the region.
Develop a report that list all state and federal
June 30, 2015
This activity was postponed. A new IDPH director was appointed in Spring 2012.
On target to
funding streams received by each local health
He began a series of meetings with local health departments to address how
meet goal.
department to examine whether a more
IDPH can support local health departments and attended the NIPHC meeting
comprehensive integrated strategy can be
including funding. A statewide integrated proposal was submitted for the Strong
proposed encouraging more program integration
Start program to reduce infant mortality in Illinois with CCDPH and CCHHS
and effectiveness thus maximizing these funding
participating in the proposal.
streams.
Assess and develop a library that will inventory
June 30, 2015
CCDPH conducted an internal assessment of information technology including
On target to
all databases at each local health department.
applications and databases supporting core public health functions for security
meet goal.
and support in collaboration with the CCHHS IT (Shared Services).

Page 64 of 89

 Improve data sharing between health
departments in Cook County through the
provision of data-sharing agreements,
specifically for Emergency Preparedness, TB,
Lead, CD, and EHS & APORS (e.g., prematurity,
lbw,genetics, etc.)

June 30, 2015

Create process maps of mandated
communicable control activities at each local
health department to assess areas of
integration, coordination, and collaboration
while avoiding duplication.

June 30, 2015

Create a comprehensive epidemiologic analysis
of heath status indicators representing health
status for Cook County on an annual basis that
will be disseminated internally and externally.
Create a multidisciplinary public health team
across local health departments to examine
public health issues as it relates to the water
quality of Lake Michigan.
Conduct a county-wide programmatic needs
assessment for public health mandated and nonmandated services, specifically addressing
CCDPH’s role in providing these services
throughout Cook County.

June 30, 2015

June 30, 2015

June 30, 2015

CCDPH and CDPH Epidemiology Units are working on an initial project to obtain
cancer registry data from the Illinois Cancer Registry (ICR). A joint request was
made for these data. Data sharing agreements will be initiated for this project
once ICR has prepared the data.
CCDPH established data sharing agreements with other LHDs in Cook County for
syndromic surveillance through the ESSENCE system. As part of the NATO
Response, CCDPH conducted syndromic surveillance during the event from
hospitals and pushed out the consolidated data to local health departments.
CCDPH participates on the NIPHC Infectious Disease Subcommittee to
coordinate control of communicable diseases across the region. NIPHC
participants follow standardized guidelines of a tiered outbreak response plan
developed in 2009. The ID Subcommittee meets six times per year to review and
revise procedures to ensure control of communicable diseases in the region.

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

As part of CCDPH’s WePLAN process, which is required for IDPH certification, a
comprehensive epidemiologic analysis of demographic and health indicators for
all of suburban Cook County including the 4 suburban local health department
jurisdictions. The report is posted on the website.
Postponed indefinitely.

On target to
meet goal.

Funding was receiving through the Chicago Community Trust to conduct an
assessment of the safety net in Cook County including the City of Chicago. This
assessment will include primary care and preventive services traditionally nonmandated services.

On target.

Assessment of environmental and/or communicable disease control issues has
not been conducted since there has been no change from prior years. With the
exception of Stickney Health Department, all local certified health departments
in Cook County are responsible for their own communicable disease control and
prevention and environmental health inspections.

Not applicable.

Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Participation in the Northern Illinois Public Health Consortium continues to support the coordination and collaboration between the regional health departments to
minimize the impact of jurisdictional boundaries and regulatory authority. Jurisdictional authority and accountability continues to be a barrier with each local health
department having a separate governing entity.
Page 65 of 89

 Objective 1.3: CCDPH will exchange data directly with the Illinois Health Information Exchange (HIE) by June 30, 2015 and eliminate duplication of data
reporting to state agencies.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Work with the HIE to establish the appropriate
June 30, 2015
CCDPH representative participates on the Illinois Department of Public Health
On target to
platform for CCDPH data reporting to the HIE.
HIE workgroup. The workgroups activities have focused on defining the criteria
meet goal.
Note: This action step will be done in conjunction
and data requirements for federal Meaningful Use phase 1 related to
with Goal 4/Objective 4.3, to complete
immunization registry data, electronic laboratory reporting of communicable
implementation of an electronic health records
diseases and syndromic surveillance.
system.
Establish mechanisms for CCDPH to access local,
regional and statewide health information that is
stored in the HIE.

June 30, 2015

This is on hold pending implementation of the Chicago Regional HIE.

Not applicable.

Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
The Chicago Regional HIE has not been implemented delaying the exchange of data. Many healthcare providers have not fully implemented an EMR (Electronic Medical
Record) required for electronic data exchange.

Page 66 of 89

 Objective 1.4: By June 30, 2013, CCDPH will define and implement a transformational public health practice model in Cook County.
Activities
Integrate CCDPH public health clinical services
into comprehensive CCHHS settings.

Target
Completion Date
June 30, 2015

Envision and define population health teams,
which reflect the multi-disciplinary nature of
public health.
Note: The
multi-disciplinary teams in this action step will be
aligned /integrated with the multi-disciplinary
teams noted in Goal 2/Objective 2.1 and Goal
3/Objective 3.3

December 31,
2012

Integrate comprehensive TB Control services
into CCHHS settings.

June 30, 2013

12 Month Measure of Success
9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Integration has started with the creation of an Oral Health Services Unit in the
Ambulatory and Community Health Network. This newly created unit will be
responsible for the provision of oral health services including preventive and
restorative throughout the CCHHS. CCDPH positions will transitioned to this
newly created unit in County Fiscal Year 2013. CCDPH has participated in the
development of the job description for the Director and has participated in the
interview process to select a candidate for the newly identified position. Clinical
services at the Harvey TB clinic will be transitioned to the newly configured
Chest Clinic on the Oak Forest Health Center campus. The Chest Clinic represents
the integration of tuberculosis control and management with the services of the
Pulmonary specialty group and the Ambulatory and Community Health Network.
CCDPH has leased space adjacent to the Vista Health Center in the Palatine
Opportunity Center for FY2103 with the goal of relocating CCDPH WIC (Women,
Infants, and Children Supplemental Nutrition Program) services from the Rolling
Meadows courthouse to facilitate integration of pediatric primary care with WIC.
Multi-disciplinary teams to address the four (4) WePlan Health priorities
cardiovascular disease, access to care, adolescent sexual health, and youth
violence were established in September 2011 and met throughout the year to
develop intervention plans. The Leadership of the Health Priority Teams is
currently in the process of identifying academic partners.

Status

CCDPH TB Control Staff and clients are scheduled be transferred from the CCDPH
Harvey Clinic to the Pulmonary Clinic at Oak Forest Health Center on August 31,
2012. Plans for the transfer of the Forest Park and Des Plaines clients/staff are
on hold until Director of Ambulatory Care for the CCHHS is selected to ensure
continuity and compatibility with Ambulatory and Community Health (ACHN)
strategic directions regarding primary/specialty care.

On target to
meet goal.

Page 67 of 89

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

 Integrate primary dental services into CCHHS
comprehensive primary care settings.

June 30, 2013

Convene a multi-affiliate Public Health
Workgroup to address strategic public health
priorities and initiatives identified by CCDPH and
CCHHS.

June 30, 2013

Re-organize CCDPH organizational structure to
reflect the transformational public health
practice model.

June 30, 2013

CCDPH participated in the creation of the job description for the Dental/Oral
Health Director for the CCHHS and will participate in the interviewing of eligible
candidates and selection process. A cost center for Dental/Oral Health has been
established for FY2013. Dental positions were transferred from CCDPH to the
CCHHS Cost Center for FY2013.
Multi-affiliate Public Health Workgroup has not been convened. CCDPH has been
supporting the CCHHS application for the 1115 Medicaid Waiver as part of
healthcare reform. In addition, CCDPH has been working with CCHHS consultants
to provide information to inform CCHHS of strategic initiatives regarding the
burden of chronic diseases. CCDPH has also actively participated in development
of workforce wellness initiatives that cross CCHHS and Cook County affiliates.
To prepare for Accreditation through the Public Health Accreditation Board
(PHAB), the Executive Team was reorganized to lead each of the 12
Accreditation Domains in October 2011. Each Objective was cross-walked to one
of the 12 Accreditation Domains to ensure alignment of the Strategic Plan with
Accreditation and WePlan.

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Both CCDPH TB Control and ACHN Pulmonary clinic staffs accepted challenge of integration and participated in the process to ensure quality care and client satisfaction.
Physical space was readily available on the Oak Forest Health Center campus to accommodate the combined clinical and patient load. Dental integration is more
challenging given the differences in scope of dental practice among the CCHHS dental programs (CORE, CCDPH, ACHN, and Cermak). It is anticipated that once the
Dental/Oral Health Director is selected and in place, there will be standardization of scope and procedures to ensure full integration and seamless delivery of services to
CCHHS clients. With the focus on the 1115 Waiver Application as part of Health Care Reform initiatives, changes to existent clinical services have been postponed to
reconfigure the required health care services mandated in the waiver.

Page 68 of 89

 Objective 2.1: By June 30, 2015, develop and implement a CCDPH Strategic Health Plan, incorporating WePLAN2015 priorities and at least four additional health
priorities (N=8).
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Establish cross disciplinary teams (CDT) for four
June 30, 2015
Four CDTs were established to address 1) Reduction of Cardiovascular Disease
Did not meet
Strategic Health Plan priorities to develop,
(CVD); 2) Prevention of Teen Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs/STDs) and
goal.
implement, and monitor program plans.
Teen Pregnancy; 3) Prevention of Youth Violence and 4) Access to Care in
• Establish teams by December 31, 2011
September 2011. Goals and evidence based action plans were developed by
• Develop goals and evidence-based action plan
September 2012. In general, the deadlines for these teams have lagged by 3-6
– March 31, 2012
months. All teams experienced significant changes in leadership as staff left the
• Implement action plan and use outcome
department. All four CDTs presented their goals and action plans to the group in
measures to revise actions – September 30,
September 2012. Team members represent 10 percent of the CCDPH staff.
2012.
Positive staff response to team activities centered around the opportunity to
work with people from across the department and focus on a specific public
health issue identified by the community. The Goal 2 Leadership Team meets
twice per month to review updates and coordination opportunities across goals.
Establish cross disciplinary teams (CDT) for two
June 30, 2015
Because of the time required to start and sustain teams and develop action
Did not meet
additional Strategic Health Plan priorities to
plans for implementation, this goal has been postponed and will be reconsidered goal.
develop, implement and monitor program plans.
in December 2013.
• Establish teams by December 31, 2012
• Develop goals and evidence-based action plan
– March 31, 2013
• Implement action plan and use outcome
measures to revise actions – September 30, 2013.
Establish cross disciplinary teams (CDT) for 2
Postponed
Will decide by September 30, 2013 IF two new teams should be established. The Did not meet
remaining Strategic Health Plan priorities to
Goal 2 Leadership Team will explore other ways to address the additional four
goal.
develop, implement and monitor program plans.
health priorities (health inequities, lack of coordination, lack of health
• Establish teams by December 31, 2013
promotion/education, lack of funding, and lack of livable communities) given the
• Develop goals and evidence-based action plan
limited resources e.g. expanding the scope of present teams. All teams have
– March 31, 2014
been asked to address health equity concerns in their action plans.
• Implement action plan and use outcome
measures to revise actions – September 30, 2014.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Barriers to success included; frequent change in health priority leadership due to employees leaving the department, different processes and approaches implemented by
the Goal 2 leadership, time constraints, and lack of appreciation by fellow colleagues not participating on the team. The lack of appreciation requires reinforcement among
all levels of the agency that actual implementation of the Health Improvement Plan is an agency priority.
Page 69 of 89

 Objective 2.2: Incorporate evidence-based practice and outcome measurement in addressing the 8 Strategic Health Plan priorities by June 30, 2013.
Activities
Identify potential academic research and
practice partners to address evidence-based
practice and outcome measurement.
• First four priorities – December 31, 2011
• Two additional priorities – December 31, 2012
• Two remaining priorities – December 31, 2014
Review and use applicable evidence-based and
promising practice in Strategic Health Plan
health priority action plans.
• First four priorities – September 30, 2012
• Two additional priorities – September 30, 2013
• Two remaining priorities – September 30, 2014
Identify the eight health status measures to be
monitored, analyzed and reported on at least
annually for Cook County.
• First four priorities – December 31, 2012
• Two additional priorities – December 31, 2013
• Two remaining priorities – December 31, 2014
Assess and develop a library that will inventory
all databases at each local health department.

Target
Completion Date
June 30, 2015

12 Month Measure of Success
9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Details are outlined in the action plans. Each team has identified academic and
expert partners. Selected strategies for inclusion in the action plan were
required to be supported at the highest level of evidence available. A number of
teams have had academic and expert partners attend team meetings. The four
CDTs are at different stages in identifying how these expert and academic
partners may participate in the action plans going forward.
Review of evidence based approaches has occurred among the leadership for
the four teams. Each team has narrowed down its action plan for the next year.
The extent to which team members appreciate literature and best practice
around their health priority varies.

Status

June 30, 2015

All four CDTs have selected different measures than those outlined in the
WePlan 2015. All Action Plans include impact and process objectives to be
measured. These differences were the result of the inability to effectively gather
or measure the outcomes as initially conceived. Support from the Community
Health Planning and Epidemiology Unit (CHPEU) was provided to each of the
CDTs to assist them in developing measurable outcomes.

On target to
meet goal.

June 30, 2015

CCDPH conducted an internal assessment of information technology including
applications and databases supporting core public health functions for security
and support in collaboration with the CCHHS IT (Shared Services).

On target to
meet goal.

June 30, 2015

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Review of levels of evidence assisted teams in selection of strategies that would have the greatest impact on the health outcome of interest. Data is critically lacking both in
quantity and quality of source around youth violence and access to care.

Page 70 of 89

 Objective 2.3: Increase community awareness of the 8 identified health priorities in Cook County and about public health in general by December 30, 2014.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Develop branded agency health communications December 31,
Standard templates have been developed for both internal and external
Not met.
campaign around strategic health priorities to
2011
communication for “branding” purposes which includes the CCDPH
include but not limited to media, social
Accreditation Logo and Seal.
marketing, Web.2.0 options, factsheets and
brochures.
During Public Health 101 completed in May 2012, there were case studies
developed for all four health priorities to increase knowledge.
Develop internal staff awareness campaign
around strategic health priorities.
Plans have been made for an update on Goal 2 to go to all staff by December 31,
2012. In addition the Goal 2 Leadership Team has developed the concept of an
internal newsletter.
A special task force will be created by December 31, 2012 to include
representation from all four teams and the CCDPH public relations staff to
address communications to the general public.
An Executive Summary on the Strategic Plan for 2012 has been completed
incorporating the outcome measures. The detail behind the plans will be made
available to the public via the website. Since the first year involved development
of plans, the focus was on process rather than outcome.
Work in progress.

Create a comprehensive health status report
December 31,
On target to
that summarizes activities and progress on
2013
meet goal.
health priority initiatives for Cook County
residents on an annual basis.
Communicate the progress on health priority
December 14,
On target to
initiatives throughout the year, via branded
2014
meet goal.
agency health communications campaign
methods, for medical community members,
strategic partners, funders and the general
public.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Both the agency annual report and the annual update on the strategic plan have been organized around accreditation and the 12 domains incorporating the health
priorities. The standard templates are being consistently used to ensure that documents generated by the Cook County Department of Public Health are recognized.

Page 71 of 89

 Objective 2.4: Increase staff and community capacity to address the 8 identified health priorities in Cook County by June 30, 2014.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Assess staff competency to accomplish strategic October 31, 2013 While there has been a general assessment of competencies done in May 2012,
Not on target.
health priorities.
specific assessment around Goal 2 has not been completed.
• First four priorities – October 31, 2011
• Two additional priorities – October 31, 2012
• Two remaining priorities – October 31, 2013
Develop staff training plan to support
October 31, 2013 Trainings on Evidence-based Practice and Development of Action Plans were
On target to
competencies needed to implement strategic
provided to the Goal 2 Leadership Team. PowerPoint presentations were
meet goal.
health priority action plans, based on workforce
prepared for Goal 2 Leadership Team members for dissemination to their teams.
assessment identified in Goal 4, Objective 4.1.
Message mapping is scheduled in the first quarter of the 2nd year to address
• First four priorities – December 31, 2011
overarching messages for use in schools. Trainings to address Health Equity and
• Two additional priorities – December 31, 2012
Epidemiology 1010 are in the process of development.
• Two remaining priorities – December 31, 2013
Develop an online capacity building tool to
June 30, 2014
The target date for this wide-ranging objective is June 30, 2014. At the moment
On target to
support skill and knowledge development of
all four teams are developing resource directories that address their health
meet goal.
public health related topics for MDs, schools,
priority. They are coordinating their work and plan to have these resources
CBOs, faith and other sectors focused on the 8
available on line by September, 2013
strategic health priorities.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Time constraints and leadership change has impacted assessment of staff competencies specific to health priorities. As part of the national Accreditation Process, the
Leadership of Goal 4 of the Strategic Plan (Strengthening Organizational Capacity is developing a Workforce Development Plan specific to the Cook County Department of
Public Health. This tool will assist in development of internal recourse capacity to address health priorities.

Page 72 of 89

 Objective 2.5: Increase alliances by June 30, 2012 to focus on the eight strategic health plan priorities.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Establish and convene the Community Health
June 30, 2012 The teams are considering the best way to accomplish this task. The Alliance for
Advisory Committee (CHAC) to provide advice
ongoing
Health and Active Communities, or AHAC, (established by the Communities
regarding ongoing implementation of the
Putting Prevention to Work to address chronic disease) continues to meet;
strategic health plan.
however decisions need to be made about the best structure to help implement
a. Established external coalitions to engage in
the action plans. The Goal 2 Leadership team is scheduled to work on the
activities to support the strategic health
development of the CHAC in the first quarter of the 2nd year.
priorities by June 30, 2012.
b. Established networks, including a school
Some teams have organized loose coalitions around their health priority. This
based network, to support the strategic health
work is lagging by 6-9 months.
priorities by June 30, 2012.
A school based approach is being considered and must be integrated with
established department relations with schools (e.g. CD, Emergency Planning etc)
There has been discussion about the best way to engage teens and youth
especially in school environments/settings to avoid duplication of effort.
NOT formalized yet. A number of previously established relationships for CCDPH
programs do exist. The teams are exploring ways to a) integrate health priorities
into established relationships and b) create new formal relationships to address
the health priorities. For example, CCDPH presently refers clients to primary
care; however the Goal 2 teams are attempting to identify agencies that are
youth friendly.

Status
Not on target.

Formalize relationships with community
providers such as schools, health care providers,
and social services agencies, which include
mechanisms to share information, assist people
in locating the services they need and optimize
access, using an agreed upon minimum quality
standard.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Decisions need to be made on how to best include existing coalitions, working groups, and partners into CHAC to ensure diversity of membership that represents both
underserved areas as well as overarching organizations.

Page 73 of 89

 Objective 3.1: By 2012, CCDPH will achieve accreditation status by the Public Health Accreditation Board (PHAB).
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Provide training to the executive team and
December 31,
Formal public health accreditation training was conducted in the Fall, 2011. All
senior management around accreditation
2011
identified staff completed a 4 module online certificate orientation offered by
standards and the steps necessary to
the Public Health Accreditation Board.
maintaining accreditation status.

Pre-application staffing and assessment
activities:
• Identify an Accreditation Coordinator
• Convene and train the Accreditation Steering
Committee
• Conduct an Accreditation Readiness
Assessment
Pre-application planning activities:
• Develop staff readiness plan for accreditation
and quality improvement
• Develop accreditation work plan to address
gaps identified in Accreditation Readiness
Assessment

Status
Completed

June 30, 2011

An Accreditation Coordinator, Valerie Webb, MPH, was identified in the Summer
of 2011. Executive and Senior Committee members provide leadership to each
of the twelve accreditation Domains and are supported by a team of staff
knowledgeable in the Domain area. An Accreditation Readiness assessment was
conducted in November, 2011. Bi-monthly meetings of Domain Leaders include
ongoing PHAB training on the accreditation process.

Completed

August 31, 2011

To increase accreditation readiness, all staff were required to attend a PHAB
orientation session that covered the purpose, benefits, process and staff’s role in
the accreditation process. Six sessions were conducted in the Fall/Winter of
2011. Ongoing staff communication is critical during the accreditation process
and monthly updates are provided through the CCHHS newsletter and staff unit
meetings. An accreditation logo was developed emphasizing leadership, quality
and excellence and is included on all CCDPH communication and on employee
badge holders.
The Accreditation Readiness Assessment conducted in November, 2011
identified several gaps in our agency’s readiness. Primary among them were
technical capabilities and leadership changes which have been addressed.
Additionally, quality improvement opportunities have emerged throughout the
Committee’s study of the Accreditation requirements. Many QI gaps can be
addressed with available resources, while others will be the work of the Quality
Committee/Teams.

Completed

Page 74 of 89

 Pre-application implementation activities:
• Implement accreditation work plan and
identify opportunities to link with applicable
strategic plan initiatives. Letter of intent
submitted with participation in mandatory inperson application and process training.

December 31,
2011

Apply for accreditation:
• Conduct formal self-assessment and post
online
• Participate in site visit

March 31, 2012

The accreditation work plan is being implemented and is in the documentation
selection and collection phase (#3 of a 7 step process). Each Strategic Plan
objective was cross-walked to the applicable twelve Accreditation Domains to
ensure alignment of the Strategic Plan with Accreditation and WePlan, the
Community Health Assessment and Improvement Plan (a prerequisite for PHAB
Accreditation).
A Statement of Intent was submitted to PHAB in February, 2012.
The PHAB application was submitted in May, 2012. Formal PHAB Accreditation
Coordinator training and access to e-PHAB, the official online venue was
completed in July, 2012. Following documentation submission, a site visit will be
conducted. It is anticipated that we will complete the process before the end of
2013.
Pending Accreditation decision.

Completed .

Schedule
adjusted to
December,
2013.

Post accreditation activities:
November 30,
TBD
• Review accreditation feedback and revise
2012
organizational activities based on feedback
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
CCDPH is fully committed to PHAB Accreditation and is currently one of 80 national health departments in the first wave of applications to be accepted. The accreditation
process will highlight our agencies’ strengths and identify opportunities to improve in areas of quality and performance improvement. This process will lay the groundwork
for improved health outcomes. The difficulties in achieving accreditation are tied to ever shrinking public health resources. Programmatic priorities, reduction and changes
in staffing and ever present emergencies compete for the time needed to successfully complete the accreditation process.

Page 75 of 89

 Objective 3.2: To promote accreditation and reduce duplication of effort in state certification by 2014, CCDPH, in collaboration with other partners, will
support the establishment of a mechanism for allowing national accreditation to be used in conferring local health department certification by the Illinois
Department of Public Health.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date 9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
CCDPH continues participation on the Illinois
June 30, 2011
CCDPH participated in the IL Accreditation Development Task Force until it
Not
Accreditation Development Task Force (IADTF),
disbanded in Spring of 2011. CCDPH supports voluntary public health
applicable.
convened by the Illinois Public Health Institute
accreditation while currently conforming to state certification rules. Discussions
(IPHI), to support voluntary use of accreditation
through the Task Force attempted to engage the IDPH on duplication of efforts.
by Illinois local health departments.
Key to the success of the IADTF efforts was an IDPH rule change to coordinate
the national accreditation efforts with the state certification efforts. This was not
accomplished due to IDPH’s objections.
CCDPH advocates for the continuation of IADTF
June 30, 2011
Lead by the IPHI, the group was unable to continue the work due in part to
Not
in FY12.
discontinue grant funding. CCDPH continues to advocate for statewide efforts to applicable.
promote public health accreditation through participation in NIPHC and IPHA.
CCDPH identifies and engages first year
June 30, 2012
CCDPH is a member of a “Learning Community” of IL local health departments
Ongoing.
accreditation applicants from Illinois to share
who are in the PHAB process, the University of IL School of Public Health and the
lessons learned and best practices on successful
IPHI. Meeting monthly for the past year, the group has developed a process for
accreditation. Timeframe dependent on PHAB
conducting Mock Reviews to assist health departments prepare for PHAB site
accreditation launch date.
visits.
CCDPH creates recommendations for increasing
December 31,
CCDPH will continue to work through state and regional efforts to promote
Ongoing.
the number of local health departments in
2012
accreditation and address the application barriers for other local health
Illinois who apply for accreditation, including
departments. Among the members of NIPHC, CCDPH, CDPH and the collar
identification of streamlined certification
county health departments of Will, Kane, Kendall, McHenry, Lake and DuPage,
process in Illinois.
there is strong support for accreditation. All NIPHC members are in some stage
of preparation for accreditation.
CCDPH recommends a mechanism to IDPH for
December 31,
Based on the defunding of the IADTF, CCDPH will seek support from NIPHC and
On target to
allowing accreditation requirements and status
2013
the member health departments to address IDPH’s perceived barriers to
meet goal.
to be used in conferring certification.
accepting accreditation for state certification.
Communicate the experience of CCDPH through June 30, 2013
CCDPH will work with the Mock Survey group and IPHI to communicate the
On target to
the PHAB accreditation process.
accreditation process especially following a successful application.
meet goal.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
CCDPH has participated in several statewide and national efforts to promote public health accreditation and support the PHAB standards for all local health departments
especially in IL. As one of the largest health jurisdictions in the state, CCDPH is among the first to apply. Despite the barriers experienced in discussing streamlining IDPH
certification in light of PHAB accreditation, there is a new IDPH director and an opportunity for new dialogue. The new IDPH director conducted a strategic planning process
for IDPH and national accreditation will be addressed based on their strategic plan to align with the state certification process.
Page 76 of 89

 Objective 3.3: By January 1, 2013, the CCDPH Quality Assurance Plan will be fully implemented, ensuring that each Service Unit has established performance
benchmarks and quality improvement priorities that are monitored and analyzed at least annually.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date
9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Convene a multidisciplinary Agency Quality
June 30, 2011
A CCDPH multidisciplinary Quality Committee composed of Executive Team
On track to
Committee charged with developing a CCDPH
leaders has met over the past year to share and review quality improvement (QI) meet goal.
Quality Assurance Plan.
resources, discuss other local health department QI experiences and develop an
Note: The multi-disciplinary team in this action
agency QI plan. The Committee’s purpose, structure and decision making
step will be aligned /integrated with the multiprocess have been finalized. Quality Improvement Teams are being convened for
disciplinary teams noted in Goal1/Objective 1.4
each of the priority FY13 QI Indicators including achieve National Public Health
and Goal2/Objective 2.1.
Accreditation and improve health indicators in the areas of Lead Poisoning
Prevention, Environmental Health, Communicable Disease, Tuberculosis and
High Risk Infants. In addition, a staff training was conducted with CCHHS’s
Quality Assurance Director, B. Farrell in June, 2012.
Complete the development of a CCDPH Quality
June 30, 2012
A QI Plan is being finalized and will be presented to the governing bodies in
On track to
Assurance Plan which identifies major program
December, 2012. For FY13, program areas, performance indicators and
meet goal.
areas/services that require development of
benchmarks have been identified and coincide with the STAR performance
benchmarks and quality improvement priorities
indicators. Currently, five of the seven Service Units are involved in the quality
for each Service Unit based upon COO directives,
improvement priorities.
the 8 strategic health priorities and accreditation
requirements.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
CCDPH, in large part due to leadership, has moved the agency forward in institutionalizing a culture of quality improvement. Performance management is a new concept
for public health agencies (CCDPH is definitely not alone) and requires a cultural shift in management and operations. The knowledge base for Public Health QI is expanding
and changing. The current practice QI tools are often outdated quickly making it difficult to keep current.

Page 77 of 89

 Objective 4.1: CCDPH will create an organizational culture by June 30, 2014 that encourages all staff to maintain and increase public health proficiency through
professional development, trainings, and education.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Status
Completion Date
9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Develop or send staff to continuing education and
training opportunities.

Ongoing

CCDPH Service Unit Directors (SUDs) are currently responsible for developing and
sending staff to continuing education and training opportunities. The current
education and training opportunities will eventually be documented in the CCDPH
Workforce Development plan that is currently being developed by the Human
Resources Director. This Workforce Development Plan will also fulfill a Public Health
Accreditation Board (PHAB) requirement under Domain 8.2. The Workforce
Development plan will provide directions to ensure the proper tracking and
documentation of continuing education and training courses to ensure public health
workforce competency levels. Specifically, SUDs will be required to track education
and training completed by employees in a spreadsheet that is regularly transmitted
to the HR Director. Additionally, SUDs will need to transmit documentation of
education and training completed by employees to the HR Director for review and
placement in the employee’s personnel file.

Page 78 of 89

On target to
meet goal.

 Develop a staff training plan to address the
following:
1. Develop and implement a new employee
orientation, including a new employee
“checklist” – December 30, 2011
2. Create and implement a Public Health 101
course for all staff – June 30 , 2012
3. Create mechanism for program staff to
increase evaluation skills – June 30, 2012
4. Create and implement an Epidemiology 101
course for identified staff to facilitate the
comprehension and articulation of public
health data – December 31, 2012
5. Conduct all required/mandatory trainings for
all staff (sexual harassment, human rights,
corporate compliance, and ethics) - ongoing
6. Conduct selective trainings for identified staff
to maintain appropriate competencies
(Institutional Review Board, media training,
etc) – ongoing
7. Conduct information technology (IT)/software
trainings for identified staff members –
ongoing
8. Conduct emergency preparedness trainings for
all staff, with a variety of levels to match
existing skills sets – ongoing
9. Conduct cultural competence and diversity
trainings to promote cultural respect – ongoing
10. Conduct media/public speaking trainings for
identified staff members - ongoing

Ongoing

Identify the appropriate staff positions for
oversight of professional development, trainings
and education.

June 30, 2012

On August 23, 2012 CCDPH’s HR Unit merged with the CCHHS HR Department. This
merger will result in the efficient and uniform provision of HR services to CCDPH
employees consistent with CCHHS. CCDPH is currently working with the CCHHS
Designated Senior HR Coordinator to develop a CCDPH Workforce Development
Plan. The Workforce Development Plan will fulfill PHAB accreditation requirement
Domain 8.2. Many of the issues noted in 4.1.2 will be addressed in the CCDPH
Workforce Development Plan or through the merger of the CCDPH HR Unit with
CCHHS HR Department. For example,
• All new CCDPH employees will attend the new CCHHS orientation training.
• The Public Health 101 course was developed and all CCDPH employees were
required to attend the training in May 2012.
• CCDPH Leadership is discussing developing an Epidemiology 101 course.
• Several mandatory trainings were provided to staff at the CCDPH All staff
meeting held in May 2012. Including HIPAA and Infectious Disease and Blood
Borne Pathogen training. In the future, these mandatory trainings will be
provided online through the CCHHS Learning Management System. The
following courses are currently being provided through the CCHHS Learning
Management System: Corporate Compliance/HIPAA; Diversity and Cultural
Competency I, II, and III; Environment of Care; Communication; and Preventing
and Controlling Infection I and II.
• The CCDPH IT Unit was merged with the CCHHS IT Department to provide IT
services in a more efficient and uniformed manner. CCHHS IT will be
responsible for providing training to CCPDH staff and other CCHHS staff in the
near future.
• Regarding emergency preparedness training, CCDPH Staff is required to
complete certain National Incident Management System (NIMS) training
developed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) online and
in person based on their role and potential role during a public health
emergency. CPCU is currently working to develop additional staff worker role
trainings in an online format.
CCDPH staff are required to complete certain NIMS training developed by FEMA.
NIMS courses are based on their position as an Executive Team member, supervisor
or manager. Additionally, SUDs will be required to track that employees have
completed certain training based on the employee’s certifications, licenses and/or
specialization. This goal will be memorialized in the CCDPH Workforce Development
Plan that is currently being developed under the direction of the HR Director.

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
Merging CCDPH administrative services of HR and IT will result in the efficient and uniformed provision of services and provide CCDPH a level of expertise and access to resources to
assist CCDPH in meeting its strategic planning goals.

Page 79 of 89

 Objective 4.2: Increase modes and quality of internal and external communication that clarifies agency plans, outputs, and activities.
Activities

Target
Completion Date

12 Month Measure of Success
9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012

Status

Expand the internal communication to be
comprehensive, regular and align with the 8
Strategic Health Plan priorities.
Note: See 2.3 for additional details

May 31, 2011 –
ongoing

On target to
meet goal.

Ensure electronic communication capability among
all staff.
Note: See 4.3 for specific details

December 31,
2011-ongoing

Assure effective emergency communications
processes.

December 31,
2011-ongoing

Develop a communication and marketing plan
targeted at external funders that highlight CCDPH
key successes documented via publications, public
education presentations, advocacy successes or
media stories.

November 30,
2012

In July 2012, the Policy Development and Communication Unit (PDCU) released its
updated Communication Procedures, which was distributed to all staff. The
Communication Procedures addresses external communication such as working with
the media, proactive media, letters to editors/opinion pieces, social medial and the
CCDPH website. It also addresses internal communication such as the new CCHHS
system news pamphlet. PDCU also developed branded templates and document
standards for: email signatures, letters, faxes, presentations and reports. PDCU
emails current press releases to all staff and weekly media reports so CCDPH
employees are informed of current media issues.
The CCDPH IT Unit was merged into the CCHHS IT Department to provide IT services
in a more efficient and uniformed manner. This transition has also provided CCDPH
with additional IT resources and software upgrades. Specifically, the email system
for CCDPH and all CCHHS system affiliates was recently upgraded to Microsoft 365.
This upgrade provides secure cloud storage of all emails and allows full access to all
emails via a web based interface. This will allow CCDPH staff to securely access
email at multiple locations and allow easier mobile access of emails in the near
future.
CCDPH is also in the process of replacing cell phones with smart phone devices
capable of accessing the internet and receiving text messaging.
CCDPH is connected to the State of Illinois Rapid Electronic Notification (SIREN)
System. SIREN electronically sends alerts from the Illinois Department of Public
Health (IDPH) Health Alert Network (HAN). SIREN allows CCDPH staff to receive
alerts via email and/or by logging into the SIREN website. Additionally, CPCU utilizes
SIREN to conduct emergency communication drills and event call outs to CCDPH staff
and external agencies that CCDPH may coordinate with during an emergency
response event. SIREN is capably of calling all staff numbers (i.e. home, work and
cell phone) and can also send an email notification. CPCU regularly conducts
communication drills to confirm the operation of the system and to prepare staff for
a timely and orderly response in the event of an emergency. CPCU also works with
the HR Department to maintain an Emergency Contact Information Database of all
CCDPH Employees that is updated on a monthly basis.
PDCU regularly transmits press releases to inform external agencies and the public of
currently public health issues/warnings, provides general public health information,
and/or announces upcoming public health programs and initiatives. PDCU updates
the CCDPH website to provide all information electronically and constantly works to
build CCDPH’s social media contacts.

Page 80 of 89

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

 Enhance external communications to promote
December 31,
PDCU regularly transmits press releases that inform external agencies and the public
constituency building and community awareness
2012 - ongoing
of currently public health issues/warnings, provides general public health
focus on strategic health initiatives.
information, and/or announces upcoming public health programs and initiatives.
Note: This action step will be aligned with activities
PDCU has also updated the CCDPH website to provide all information electronically.
in Goal 2/Objective 2.3, to increase community
Additionally, PDUC is constantly working to build CCDPH’s social media contacts.
Also see 2.3 response.
awareness of the 8 identified health priorities
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
CCDPH continues to improve its website and invest in electronic methods of communication.

Page 81 of 89

On target to
meet goal.

 Objective4.3: CCDPH will implement information technology initiatives that will support and facilitate the functioning of the agency.
Activities

Target
Completion Date

12 Month Measure of Success
9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012

Status

Increase the capacity and use of Geographic
Information System (GIS) applications.

May 31, 2011 ongoing

On target to
meet goal.

Enhance CCDPH capability and productivity by
augmenting the use of IT resources.

June 30, 2012

CCDPH’s clinical records and function will be
completely electronic. Note: This action step will be
done in conjunction with Goal1/Objective
1.3/Action 1.3.1, to work with the Illinois Health
Information Exchange to establish the appropriate
platform for CCDPH data reporting to the HIE.
Basic functions of communicable disease and
environmental health services will be put on an
electronic platform.

June 30, 2012

CCDPH now has access to the County GIS office software and website through an
enterprise wide license. The CCDPH Communicable Disease Control (CD) and
Community Planning and Epidemiology (CPE)Units have begun using GIS more
routinely in developing maps and reports. CCDPH has also posted this information
on its website. Additionally, CCDPH has had its staff attending GIS application
training.
The CCDPH IT Unit was merged into the CCHHS IT Department to provide IT services
in a more efficient and uniformed manner. This transition has also provided CCDPH
with additional IT resources and software upgrades.
• Specifically, the email system for CCDPH and all CCHHS system affiliates was
recently upgraded to Microsoft 365. This upgrade provides secure cloud storage
of all emails and allows full access to all emails via a web based interface. This
will allow CCDPH staff to securely access email at multiple locations and allow
easier mobile access of emails in the near future.
• CCDPH also has access to the CCHHS Risk Management GE MERS website for
reporting incidents that arise in the clinical setting.
• CCDPH has access to the CCHHS Cerner system, an electronic health records
(EHR) system and has fully implemented registration and scheduling.
The CCDPH IT Unit was merged into the CCHHS IT, to provide IT services in a more
efficient and uniformed manner. This transition has also provided CCDPH with
additional IT resources and software upgrades. CCDPH now has access to the
CCHHS Cerner system, an electronic health records (EHR) system. Additionally,
CCDPH is working with CCHHS to upload CCDPH’s historical data into the new Cerner
system.
The CCDPH CD unit currently uses the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH)
Illinois National Electronic Disease Surveillance System (I-NEDSS) for reporting
communicable diseases to IDPH. Additionally, CCDPH uses the Electronic
Surveillance System for the Early Notification of Community-Based Epidemics
(ESSENCE) to conduct syndromic surveillance in Cook County receiving data from
hospital emergency departments in Cook County and the IDPH Biosense 2.0 to
provide syndromic surveillance information to the state. In 2012, the CCDPH
Environmental Health Service Unit (EHS) implemented an electronic system to
collect data related to certain EHS programs including the food and swimming pools
programs. CCDPH continues to improve and expand the use of this system.

June 30, 2013

Page 82 of 89

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

On target to
meet goal.

 Establish mechanism for residents of Cook County
to access selective public health data on an
interactive platform.

December 31,
2015

CCDPH regularly posts and updates public health data and reports on the CCDPH
website, which is accessible to the public.
Additionally, CCDPH worked with the County Bureau of Information Technology and
Automation (BITA) to provide data to be posted on the Open Date Portal Website for
Cook County Government.

On target to
meet goal.

Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
CCDPH is currently working with the CCHHS CIO to get its historical date uploaded into Cerner.

Objective 4.4: Strengthen the support functions and activities of the agency.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Completion Date
9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Ensure that emergency plans for the HR, Finance,
and Physical Plant/Materials Management (PPMM)
units align with the strategic plan goals.

Ongoing

Improve internal communication between the
PPMM Unit and other departmental units related
to supplies, inventories, and other materials.
Improve internal communication between the HR
Unit and other departmental units related to
position control, labor relations, benefits, and
other human resources issues.

June 30, 2012
June 30, 2012

Status

CCDPH, seeks to improve the level of readiness of CCDPH, the County, the CCDPH
community and cooperating regional entities in responding to public health
emergencies through the use of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
(“CEMP”) provided by IIllinois Department of Public. The CEMP houses CCDPH’s All
Hazards Plan and other emergency plans and is a secure, password protected, webbased program that is compliant with federal and state emergency preparedness
and planning system requirements and can be expanded and modified in the future
to meet the needs of CCDPH.
CCDPH is currently updating its All Hazards Plan. The ET is currently meeting to
review and comment on the All Hazards plan so that it may be finalized by CPCU.
The CCDPH PPMM Unit is currently being reorganized to provide more efficient and
uniformed PPMM services.

On target to
meet goal.

On August 23, 2012 CCDPH’s HR Unit was merged with the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System (CCHHS) HR Department. Additionally, as of April 23, 2012, all
CCDPH Labor issues will also be handled by CCHHS. The provision of HR and Labor
services at the System level will improve internal communication and provide
efficient and uniform HR and Labor services to CCDPH.
The CCDPH Finance department began holding regular meetings with CCDPH SUDs
and Management staff to provide regular updates and guidance on CCDPH financial
issues.

On target to
meet goal.

On Hold, not
on target

Improve internal communication between the
June 30, 2012
On target to
Finance Unit and other departmental units related
meet goal.
to position control, grant budgets, and other
financial issues associated with programs
administered by those respective units.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
CCDPH is currently transitioning many of its administrative and support functions to CCHHS and other County agencies to proved a high level of expertise and more efficient and
uniform provision of services. CCDPH will work communicating upcoming changes to staff and providing regular updates on the transition.

Page 83 of 89

 Objective 4.5: Diversify CCDPH’s revenue streams to support the strategic plan.
Activities
Target
12 Month Measure of Success
Completion Date
9.1.2011 – 8.31.2012
Establish a grants research team that will identify
new funding opportunities, both governmental and
non-governmental, that are in alignment with
CCDPH mission and strategic plan.

June 30, 2012

Assess opportunities to collect or increase fees for
services rendered.

August 31, 2012

This goal is currently on hold. CCDPH is currently engaged in an accreditation
process. As part of the accreditation process CCDPH will be reviewing ways to
improve the quality and efficiency of the services it provides and determining
whether the current structure of CCDPH is sufficient to serve its future goals and
objectives.
CCHHS in collaboration with the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family
Services (HFS) and the Illinois Governor’s Office filed a 1115 waiver application,
which the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to cover the current
uninsured population that will become eligible for Medicaid in 2014. If granted by
CMS, the 1115 waiver will allow CCHHS to decrease its uninsured population and
jump start the Medicaid enrollment process for newly eligible patients as a result of
the Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act (PPACA). As a system affiliate of
CCHHS, CCDPH would be able to take advantage of the potential benefits of the 1115
waiver should it be granted by CMS.
The CCDPH Finance is working with the CCHHS Finance to regularly evaluate the
viability of existing funding streams and to assess whether such funding streams are
in alignment with the strategic plan.

Status
On Hold, Did
not meet goal

On target to
meet goal.

Evaluate existing funding streams to assess the
Ongoing
On target to
extent to which they are aligned with the strategic
meet goal.
plan.
Leading Successes and/or Barriers to Success
CCDPH is currently transitioning many of its administrative and support functions to CCHHS and other County agencies to proved a high level of expertise and more efficient and
uniform provision of services. Once the transition is complete, CCDPH will need to reassess its organization structure and the services it provides to determine the new revenue
streams and opportunities it should actively seek.

Page 84 of 89

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
December 18, 2012

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 85 of 89

  

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

 

Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments and Non-Medical Staff Action items Subject to
Approval by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee

INITIAL APPOINTMENT APPJLICATIONS

 

Hadley, Indira 8., MD Medicine/Rheumatoiogy Active Physician
Appointment Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014

Giovingo, Michael, MD Surgery/Ophthalmology Service Physician
Appointment Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014

McConnie Randolph, MD Pediatrics/Gastroenterology Voluntary Physician
Appointment Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014

INITIAL PRIVILEGES FOR NON MEDICAL STAFF

Francis, Regeena, CNP Medicine/Adult Cardiology Nurse Practitioner
with Ansari, Asimul Haq, MD

Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014

Ragauskis, Pauline M., PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant

with Kysia, Rashid Fuad, MD
Alternate Schaider, Jeffrey 
Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014

Spencer, Samuel J., PA-C Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
with Sergei, Michelle J., MD

Alternate Sherman, Scott C., MD
Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Department of Emergency Medicine

Erickson, Timothy, MD Emergency Medicine Voluntary Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 23, 2013 thru January 22, 2015

Wu, Jack, MD Emergency Medicine Consulting Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015 

Department of Family Medicine

ikedionwu, Chukweloka, MD Family Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014


APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY MITTEE

Item 12/ [8/12 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting ON DECEMBER 18? 20 12 Page 1

Page 86 of 89

John H. StrogerI Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications {continued}

Department of Medicine

Ganschow, Pamela 8., MD
Reappointment Effective:

General Medicine
January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015

Khandelwal, Sonali, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rheumatology
January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015

Ngu, Lawrence N., MD ACHN
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Rivas Chicas, Oscar A., MD ACHN
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Sengupta, Mondira, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rheumatology
January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Shakoor, Najia, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rheumatology -
January 21, 2013 thru January 20, 2015

Smith, Kimberly Y., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Infectious Disease
January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Zehra, Tharanum, MD ACHN
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

Abrego, Fidel, MD OB/gyn
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Fish, Karen Elizaeth, MD OB/gyn
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Department of Pathology

Kakaiya, Rameshchandra, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Blood Bank
January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015

Department of Radiology

Kay, Daniel, J., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Radiology
January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015



APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITT 

01' DECEMBER 

Department of Surgem

Abcarian, Herand, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Colon/Rectal
January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015

Item 12/18/12 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting

Page 87 of 89

 

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Voluntary Physician

Voluntary Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Active Physician

Consulting Physician

Active Physician

 

Page 2

 

John H. StrogerI Jr. Hospital of Cook County (continued!
Renewal of Privileges for Non-Medical Staff:

 

Cohen, Claudette R, PA-C

With Kendrick, Sabrina R., MD
Alternate Warren, William H., MD

Effective:

Durdov, David, CCP
Effective:

Foster, Lauren E., CNP
With Barker, David E., MD
Effective:

Knowles, Patrica A., CNP
With Chaudhry, Vivek, MD
Effective:

Ko, Joselyn R., CNP
With Hart, Peter D., MD
Effective:

Stoltzner, Leslie, CCP
Effective:

Medicine/infectious Disease

January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Surgery/Cardiothoracic
January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015

Medicine/infectious Disease

January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015
Surgery/Colon/Rectal

January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015
Medicine/Nephr./Hypertension

January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015

Surgery/ Cardiothoracic
January 18, 2013 thru January 17,2015

Medical Staff Change with No Change in Clinical Privileges

Abrahamian, Frida, MD
Medicine/GI

Effective as of January 1, 2013

Pascho, Steve, MD,


Perez-Tamayo, Ruheri, MD

Surgery/Cardiothoracic

William, Kenya, MD
Surgery/Ophthalmology

Sansi, Pratiba, MD
Radiology

From: Active Physician to Voluntary Physician

From: Voluntary Physician to Active Physician

From: Active Physician to Voluntary Physician

From: Voluntary Physician to Active Physician

From: Active Physician to Voluntary Physician

corms
APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY

Physician Assistant

Perfusionist

Physician Assistant

Nurse Practitioner

Nurse Practitioner

Perfusionist

  

ITTEE

on DECEMBER 18, 2012

Item l2/18/12 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting

Page 88 of 89

Page 3

 

 

Provident Hospital of Cook County

Medical Staff AppointmentsIReappointments and Non-Medical Staff Action Items Subject to
Approval by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee

 

INITIAL APPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Totonchi, Emil, Surgery/Urology Active Physician
Appointment Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014

Initial Privileges for Non-Medical Staff:

Shah, Binita P., Emergency Medicine Physician Assistant
With Roskam, Stephen, DO

Alternate Allegretti, Paul, DO

Effective: December 18, 2012 thru December 17, 2014

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

 

Department of internal Medicine

Attar, Bashar M., MD Gastroenterology . AffiliatePhysician
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru December 9, 2014 
Nagubadi, Swamy N., MD Internal Medicine Af?liate Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Sengupta, Mondira MD Rheumatology Af?liate Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015

Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology

Abrego, Fidel, MD Gynecology Af?liate Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015
Fish, Karen Elizabeth, MD Gynecology Af?liate Physician
Reappointment Effective: January 18, 2013 thru January 17, 2015



Medical Staff Chan with No Chan in Clinical Privile es APPROVED

BY THE AND 
Lipkin, Julie, MD From: Active Physician to Voluntary Pths?m? ?mm;
9

Family Medicine

Item 12/18/12 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Page 4

Page 89 of 89

