REPORT OF THE
QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 21, 2003
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman David Ansell, Chairman of the Board Warren L. Batts; Directors
Jerry Butler and Benn Greenspan, MPH, FACHE (4)

Absent: Director Luis Munoz, MD, MPH (1)

Also Present: Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau,
Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Maurice Lemon, MD, MPH Medical Director,
Stroger HoSpital of Cook County; Sandy Martill Chief Medical Of?cer, Cook
County Department of Public Health; Stephen Martin, MPH Chief
Operating Of?cer, Cook County Department of Public Health; Linda Murray,
MD Cook County Department of Public Health; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy
Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Office of the State?s Attorney; Deborah Santana -
Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; David
Small Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Quality and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on Monday, July 21, 2008 at the hour of 3:00 RM.
at 1900 West Polk Street, Second Floor Conference Room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Quality and Compliance Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption
of this report, the recommendations follow.

Roll Call
Deborah Santana, of the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members, and it
was determined that a quorum was present.

Welcome and Introductions
Chairman Ansell provided a brief introduction and welcomed the attendees.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to take out of order the Special
presentation and discussion of the impact of the proposed changes to the Family

Case Management Program: Clinical Outcomes. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Sgcial presentation and discussion of th_e imp_act of the promsed changes to the
Family Case Management Program: Clinical Outcomes

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 21, 2008

PAGE 2

. Dr. Stephen Martin, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Cook County Department of Public Health
and Dr. Linda Murray of the Cook County Department of Public Health presented the Committee
with an update on the impact of the proposed changes to the Family Case Management Program
with regard to clinical outcomes. Chairman Ansell requested that while the" discontinuation of
case management Services was being done for cost reasons, the had a responsibility to
ensure that the clients are effectively transferred to other organizations without loss of services.

Dr. Martin read the following information into the record:

- Family case management WILL continue for non~high risk clients. It is a state responsibility
to identify providers and fund the program. With the System Board?s action on July II,
2008, the state has indicated to us that they are now able to move forward and have already

- identified and contacted several eager providers. A letter stating this fact has been requested
and will be shared with the board upon its receipt.

Although case management will no longer be provided for non-high risk clients by 
WILL continue providing categorical case management as it relates to our statutory
responsibilities APORS, Lead Poisoning Case Management, Genetic Case Management,
etc.) [see Attachment Thus, is not out of the case management business. We are
simply shifting our operational focus, based on economics, from non-mandated public health
services to only our core mission and responsibility for protecting and promoting the health
of suburban Cook County.

- Because this activity is a state Illinois Department of Human Services (IDHSD
responsibility, the data for this program is under their control. Outcomes data such as infant
mortality, birthweight, and preterm is not readily available to the case management service
provider. Enclosed please ?nd a FY 2006 and FY 2007 IDHS report on Infant Mortality for
your review.

- If the county?s ACHN was in a stronger operational position, they could potentially be
selected as a provider by the IDHS and thus integrate their clinical care with this case
management activity resulting in additional revenue above their Medicaid encounter rate. In
the current operational set-up, this health department is not eligible for this revenue since we
do not operate primary care clinics- However, providers in the suburbs will be selected by
IDHS and will continue to offer the program to these clients. Please note that the state must
select and contract with the providers of their program.

- All non-high risk clients are eligible for health insurance through the State of Illinois. The
transition of this program DOES NOT impact client eligibility or access to All Kids coverage
provided through the state of Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services. It is our
current intention though to continue to complete MPE (Medicaid Presumptive Eligibility)
applications for clients who have a positive pregnancy test and refer them to the case
management provider for case management services and a primary care provider for medical
services. It would then be the responsibility of the case management provider to assist the
client in completion of the All Kids applications.

- The Illinois FY 2009 budget includes a 2% reduction in general revenue funds for Infant
Mortalitlease Management and Outreach Services. With this state reduction and recent
federal action related to case management, is now monitoring the following 2 major

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 21, 2003

PAGE 3

grant funded programs [Women, Infants, and Children Supplemental Nutrition Program and
Family Planning Program (Title 142)] closely as well for their future operational impact in FY
2010. The analysis when completed by will be presented to this committee as soon
as possible in 2009.

- System Board?s action on uly 11, 2008 has allowed to quickly move forward on the
service reduction plan and to develop plans to minimize the employee displacement as best as
possible. The ?nal impact will not be available until the employee displacement process is
fully completed.

- Enclosed please ?nd an executive summary and CD of strategic health plan
for 2005 to 2010. We will begin our next strategic health plan evaluation for
suburban Cook County in late 2009 to cover the years between 2011 and 2016. This
information will be critical for the System Board when its begins to develop its long term

vision of providing public healthcare to the uninsured and underinsured residents and public
health services to all residents of suburban Cook County.

- Enclosed please find an executive summary released on July 17, 2003 by Trust for America?s
Health that evaluates the bene?ts of investing in prevention programs and their return on
investment. The full report may be downloaded fr0m their website at



Director Ansell asked that Dr. Martin mum to report to the Quality Committee in two
months and present metrics on the transfer of case management clients to other agencies.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Butler, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into executive session to discuss personnel matters, pursuant to the ?linois Open
Meetings Act, 5 et seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration
of ?the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other
health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is
operated by a public body?. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Butler, moved to adjourn the executive session
and convene into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Discussion of Committee?s use and eneral order of business
Medical staff appointments, reappointments and changes
Request to approve the following Clinical Leadership Appointments:

Appoint Dr- Suja Matthews to Internal Medicine Residency Program Director;
Appoint Dr. Peter Hart to Chair of Nephrology;
Appoint Dr. Augustine Manadan to Chair of Rheumatology.

Adverse event reporting/malpractice case review

Quality and safety dashboards

Patient grievance reportfpatient satisfaction

Quality reports from key clinical departments

Hospital committee reports

Regulatory review

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 21, 2003

PAGE 4

Discussion of Committee membership and involvement of Non-Directors
Report and comments from each of the Medical Staff Executive Committees
Presentation bv Hospital and ACHN Ouglitv Directors

General organization of quality improvement activities, reporting su'uctures, timelines or
schedules of departmental reporting, etc.

Listing of quality issues focus for the current ?scal year
Listing of performance improvement initiatives currently underway

Status of all regulatory surveys and corrective action plans

Director Butler, seconded by Director GreenSpan, moved to approve the following Clinical 
Leadership Appointments included in the Medical Staff Appointments, Reappointrnents
and Changes:

Appoint Dr. Suja Matthews to Internal Medicine Residency Program Director;
Appoint Dr. Peter Hart to Chair of Nephrology; 
Appoint Dr. Augustine Manadan to Chair of Rheumatology.

0n the motion to approve, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfu?y submitted,

Quality and Compliance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the

Cook County Health and Hospitals System

David Ansell, MD, Chairman

 

Attest:

 
   

Matthew B. DeLeon, ecretary

**The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, .
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, Illinois 60602.

