HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: October 14, 2016
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Friday, October 21, 2016 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

9:00/Chairman Richardson-Lowry

II.

Public Speakers

9:00-9:10

III.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources

9:10-9:20/Gladys Lopez

IV.

Action Items

A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting

9:20-9:20/Chairman Richardson-Lowry

of September 23, 2016
B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement-related matters: approval
of Collective Bargaining Agreements for:
•

American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME) 1111, 1178 and 1276

•

Illinois Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) representing the Oak
Forest Health Facilities Police Officers

•

Metropolitan Alliance of Police (MAP) 270

•

Cook County Pharmacy Association, Chicago Joint Board, Retail,
Wholesale & Department Store Union, AFL-CIO-CLC Local 200
(RWDSW Local 200) representing two hundred and ten (210)
pharmacists and pharmacy technicians

•

Service Employees International Union, Local 20, CTW/CLC
(SEIU Local 20), representing attending physicians, psychologists
and dentists at the Cook County Health Facilities (Stroger
Hospital, Oak Forest Health Facilities, Ambulatory and
Community Health Network, Cermak Health Services and
Provident Hospital)

•

Service Employees International Union, Local 73, CTW/CLC
(SEIU Local 73) representing health care professionals, Stroger
Hospital, Cermak Health Services and Oak Forest Health Facilities
service and maintenance employees, technicians and technologists

C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

** Also included as a potential Closed Meeting Item/Discussion under Section V.

9:20-9:25/Gladys Lopez

 AGENDA
Friday, October 21, 2016 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

9:25-10:00

Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement-related matters (see Item IV(B)
Report from Chief of Human Resources
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Richardson-Lowry
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Driscoll and Thomas

** Also included as a potential Closed Meeting Item/Discussion under Section V.

 