Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday,
February 1, 2013 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago,
Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Quin
R. Golden; Edward L. Michael; Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH; Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM;
Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (9)

Absent:

Director Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – System Chief Compliance and
Privacy Officer
John Cookinham – System Chief Financial Officer
Hon. Bridget Gainer – Cook County
Commissioner
Susan Greene – System Interim Director of
Managed Care
David Harris - PricewaterhouseCoopers
Helen Haynes – System Associate General
Counsel
Bala Hota, MD – System Interim Chief
Information Officer

II.

Nancy Jaracek – John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County
William Luallen – PricewaterhouseCoopers
Terry Mason, MD – System Chief Medical Officer
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – System Director of Internal
Audit
Joy Wykowski – Chief of Staff to the Chief
Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, December 14, 2012
Director Golden, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Board of Directors Meeting of December 14, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, December 18, 2012
Director Velasquez, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of December 18, 2012. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 1 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, January 23, 2013
 Video presentation regarding the Board’s role in quality and patient safety –Transparency
During the presentation of the Minutes, Director Michael stated that a topic that the Board ought to continue
to discuss on a regular basis is the implementation process and status of the electronic medical records (EMR)
system. Staff are still seeing some issues with the implementation; one of the suggestions mentioned by Dr.
David Barker, Chief Medical Officer of the Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center of Cook County, which was
discussed at the meeting, is that the Committee and the Board should perhaps look at the addition of
additional medical assistants in order to make the workflow more efficient and to free up the time of the
medical professionals to be able to treat more patients.
Chairman Carvalho requested that Dr. Bala Hota, System Interim Chief Information Officer, provide
information regarding the subject. Dr. Hota responded that there are mandates, as far as what pieces of the
patient clinical interaction have to take place. While those are generally accepted to be parts of the
interaction, they have now been mandated and they are being measured; they have to be structured in a very
specific way. He provided an example of this relating to medication reconciliation - every time there is a
transfer of the patient, there should be a complete review of all the medications and an assessment of what the
patient is currently taking; anything the patient is not currently taking should be removed from the list.
Another example involves the depart process; this is a checklist of things that need to be done before the
patient is allowed to leave, including follow-up appointments and patient education.
Dr. Hota stated that the main thing that has changed is that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS) and the Office of the National Coordinator want to know the rates at which the providers are doing
these tasks. The Joint Commission has always mandated that medication reconciliation, for example, should
be done, but sites are free to do it in the way they see fit; now this information has to be captured in the EMR.
Every location has an opportunity to decide how that will implemented; Cerner had a set of recommendations,
based on best practices, for some of these steps. Their recommendation for medication reconciliation, for
example, was that a medication-by-history evaluation should be done by a non-physician at the start of every
visit. As the System’s engaged group of leaders went through the planning process, it was determined that the
System did not have the non-physician staff at that time to do that step, so the physicians perform that task.
Similarly, with regard to the depart process, during which patient education is provided and follow-up
appointments are scheduled for the patient, there is a lot of variability across the System as to who takes that
role. When the Meaningful Use metrics are reported to CMS, they are reported under the national provider
identifier (NPI) number of the physician who was assigned to the encounter; ultimately, the responsibility in
the metric rolls up to the physician, even though it is very multi-disciplinary in terms of who should own
different tasks. This organization has an opportunity to make that evaluation and decide the best work flow,
and it does not necessarily have to be a “one size fits all.”
Chairman Carvalho clarified that the System’s plan is to try to align tasks so that they are done in a best
practice situation – tasks that could be done by non-physicians would be done by non-physicians. Dr. Hota
responded affirmatively.
He stated that he believed that Dr. Barker’s suggestion was to allow nonphysicians to be available to do steps that would fall under the domain of a non-physician – this would allow
for a more clear assignment of roles within each clinic so that physicians can focus on patient care. Dr. Hota
stated that there has been an effort to address this issue; however, the challenge is whether there are nonphysicians available for that purpose. The global philosophy has been that if there are people available to do
this non-physician work, then have them do it.

Page 2 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 3

III.

Board and Committee Reports
C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, January 23, 2013 (continued)
A short video was presented to the Board that addressed the subject of transparency; this video was received
at a recent National Association of Public Hospitals and Health Systems (NAPH) conference. This video was
also presented at the January 23, 2013 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting.
Following the presentation of the video, Director Michael noted that Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer,
has been a leader in trying to improve transparency. Management is taking steps to get more information on
the website so that all of the measures that the System is tracking from a quality and safety standpoint will be
available to the public. He recommended that a little time be taken at the next Board Meeting to review the
subject and to have Dr. Krishna Das, System Interim Director of Quality and Patient Safety, recap the
performance metrics that the System has been measuring for 20121. That will be a good starting point for a
discussion about areas for needed improvement, and also will lead into a discussion about the Quality
Dashboard and key improvement areas that the Board wants to focus on moving forward.
Chairman Carvalho noted that for several years now, the System’s quality data, along with data from all other
Illinois hospitals, has been on the Illinois Department of Public Health’s website. The information on the
website contains measures of national benchmarks and state benchmarks, but it is six to nine months old, due
to the collection process. He stated that there is value for a hospital putting its own data on its own website
because it would be much more current. Dr. Raju stated that the plan is to have quality data posted to the
website by the end of the year.
Director Michael, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of January 23, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
D. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, January 23, 2013
During the presentation of the Minutes, the Board discussed the subject of the status of facility/technical
coding. For professional fees, coding is performed and monitored by staff from McKesson, an external
vendor. Facility/technical coding is performed internally.
McKesson monitors its professional fee coders very carefully to make sure they are performing at national
levels; it was noted that some of the data relating to their performance is included in the minutes. Director
Muñoz stated that at the Committee Meeting, he asked for the performance data on the internal
facility/technical coding. It was communicated that monitoring of internal facility/technical coding is not
actively being done. Director Muñoz expressed his frustrations upon hearing this information, as this issue
has been a problem for years, and he was concerned that there has been little improvement. Upon further
discussion at the Committee Meeting, it was communicated that there have been initial efforts by a consultant
to assist with some review of emergency room billing and coding – this is part of a plan for a larger program
for this type of monitoring, similar to the coding and quality assessment done by McKesson for professional
fee coding. It is expected that the Committee will receive an update at their next meeting on the full program
that is to be implemented in the very near future2.
Chairman Carvalho noted that many of the System’s quality measures are derived from coding – if the coding
is not accurate, then the quality measures are similarly not accurate. Four years ago, the Board identified
coding as a deficiency; at that time, it was determined that if the System cannot do it internally at national
standards of efficiency and quality, then it should not be done internally. There must be an audit system in
place to ensure that internal coders are meeting the standards of efficiency and quality.
Page 3 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 4

III.

Board and Committee Reports
D. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, January 23, 2013 (continued)
Cathy Bodnar, System Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer, provided an overview of a matter that was
discussed at the Committee Meeting regarding disclosures and the Conflict of Interest Policy. Ms. Bodnar
noted that the survey tool for the annual Conflict of Interest Questionnaire will be rolled out in February to
those individuals with decision-making capacity as part of their role. It will somewhat overlap the Statement
of Economic Interest that the County requires to be completed; however, the Conflict of Interest
Questionnaire does not take the place of the County’s form – both forms are required to be completed
annually.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director O’Donnell, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of January 23, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

E. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, January 25, 2013
During the review of the Minutes, the Board discussed the CountyCare implementation activities, including
those activities relating to communication and outreach efforts. It was noted that contractual requests relating
to communication and outreach activities were included in these Minutes; those requests were recommended
for approval by the Committee at the meeting.
Director O’Donnell noted that the Committee discussed an issue regarding those patients who have declined
to enroll in the Waiver, who are then potentially being enrolled in CareLink. She stated that this is
problematic – the System will need to address a culture change within the organization and with the patients.
Director Michael stated that it is important that the outreach efforts be monitored very closely to determine
whether the enrollment rate among people who are eligible for CountyCare is increasing to acceptable levels.
He noted that, if these new outreach efforts are effective, he believes that there is a good chance that the
System can reach its goal of 115,000 enrollees. If the outreach efforts are not effective, and if one of the
reasons they are not effective is because people are declining to enroll and are signing up for CareLink
instead, then the issue of incentives and requirements needs to be reconsidered by the full Board.
Susan Greene, System Interim Director of Managed Care, stated that, upon further research of the issue
involving those patients who decline to enroll in CountyCare, it was determined that those individuals are not
being offered CareLink as an option. The policy is that if the patient is eligible for any type of insurance,
specifically Medicaid, they are not eligible for CareLink. How that is being implemented is a different
question; it does raise some issues because several thousand people who are currently enrolled in CareLink
have been identified as potentially being eligible for CountyCare; once staff begins to reach out to that group,
will the System dis-enroll them from CareLink?
Ms. Greene stated that an individual is ineligible for CareLink if they screen as eligible for CountyCare; if an
individual files an application for CountyCare and is denied, then they are eligible for CareLink. In response
to a question from Chairman Carvalho regarding what recommendations he might have to address the issue of
those individuals who are eligible for CountyCare and decline to enroll, Dr. Raju stated that one of the major
efforts that will be used to address the issue will be to use the System’s physician workforce to tell the
patients how important it is for them to enroll. It is also in the patients’ best interests to enroll, because
CountyCare gives them other benefits, such as full pharmacy and mental health benefits.

Page 4 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 5

III.

Board and Committee Reports
E. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, January 25, 2013 (continued)
Dr. Raju indicated that currently, the patients have not received enough information on CountyCare; more
needs to be done to educate them. At this point, management is focusing on educating the patients, and has
not yet discussed the policy with regard to that subject.
Director O’Donnell stated that it is important to acknowledge that the System is in the early stages of
implementation. Management needs to be allowed time to do community outreach and be able to educate
patients and the community; however, in order to be successful in the enrollment efforts, it may require a
change in behavior for some of the patients.
Chairman Carvalho requested that further information be provided for the outreach contract regarding the
contract scope, estimation of how the dollars will be spent, and process used to develop the Request for
Proposals (RFP). Joy Wykowski, Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive Officer, stated that the outreach RFP
went out in December and had eight responses. Responses to the RFP were reviewed by a team of six people;
selection of The Prairie Group as the vendor for the outreach contract was unanimous. She noted that the
System is also entering into a smaller contract with a different vendor for additional targeted outreach in the
Hispanic community.
There will be a very coordinated effort between media, outreach and enrollment
activities done through the third party administrator (TPA). Moving forward, weekly meetings will take place
to have that coordinated effort between the following individuals: Ms. Wykowski; Marisa Kollias, System
Interim Director of Public Affairs; vendors for outreach and media; and representatives from the TPA and
from two of the Federally-Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) participating in the Waiver Project.
Ms. Wykowski stated that management has the initial plans for both the media and outreach vendors; those
initial plans are to be finalized by next Friday, and then the complete and finalized plans will be ready by
March 8th. The initial focus of the outreach campaign relates to engagement with the FQHCs, and
determining the initial reach-outs for the education component. There will be a kickoff meeting held possibly
at the end of February; the meeting will include all of the stakeholders that are invested in the Waiver,
including System Board Members, County Commissioners, faith-based organizations, elected officials and
other community organizations. Also being considered is the development of a speakers’ bureau; Board
Members will be contacted to see if they are interested in participating in this initiative. As part of the plan
for coordination, The Prairie Group has split up the County into five districts; each district has a regional
coordination manager, who will be responsible for setting up enrollment fairs and for all the reporting of their
district’s data.
With regard to the question of how the dollars under the outreach contract will be spent, Ms. Wykowski stated
that a good portion of it will be spent on materials and costs for enrollment fairs - in securing the venues and
getting the materials printed. The details for this are expected to be finalized with the development of the
work plans. Chairman Carvalho stated that management needs to make sure that the contract includes an
oversight function and provides a very clear ability to articulate how the money was spent and how the
expenditures have been monitored.
Chairman Carvalho noted that, in the Finance Committee and at the Board, there has been a focus on getting
the Waiver, getting the contracts in place, getting the enrollment activities going, and receiving reports on all
those activities. Now the Board should focus more on the provision of care and the fundamental internal
restructuring that will be needed for the medical home model, to ensure that the System will be ready to
manage those lives and provide the care in accordance with the waiver. He recommended that the Finance
Committee receive information or a presentation on that aspect of it, which is just as critical to the Waiver
Demonstration Project being successful as is the enrollment aspect3.
Page 5 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 6

III.

Board and Committee Reports
E. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, January 25, 2013 (continued)
Director Golden referenced information provided earlier regarding the potential 1,000 patients who are
enrolled in CareLink but are eligible for enrollment in CountyCare. She asked whether Automated Health
Systems (AHS) is reaching out to those patients to navigate them over to CountyCare. Ms. Greene responded
affirmatively. Director Golden inquired whether the outreach entity will be working very closely with AHS
or whether AHS will provide the reports for the outreach vendors; she stated that this could help them to have
a more narrow focus, in terms of where the outreach vendor targets some of their community saturation
activities. Ms. Greene stated that that is a very good idea. At this point, management is getting the report
back from AHS on the identity of the individual System patients who are declining, and then trying to work
with the clinics to identify the provider for that patient.
Director O’Donnell, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Finance Committee Meeting of January 25, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho voted PRESENT on request numbers 1 and 10, under the Contracts
and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.
F. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, January 25, 2013
Director Golden, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of January 25, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

Action Items
A. Contracts and Procurement Items
There were no Contract and Procurement Items presented for the Board’s consideration.
B. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Chairman Carvalho noted that on January 24th, Dr. Raju delivered a speech at a City Club of Chicago event.
Chairman Carvalho stated that the speech was well received; Dr. Raju spoke regarding the fundamental changes
in the way the System delivers care that are required in order to be successful.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #1)
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: Public Health Update; Gift of Hope; and Stroger Hospital
Executive Medical Staff Annual Meeting. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.
Additionally, Dr. Raju provided an update on the pro-bono assistance that has been received from Bain &
Company, a consulting firm. He stated that the consultants set up a project management office (PMO) and have
taken on various projects, including the 1115 Waiver enrollment. He noted that their engagement with the
System is nearing its end; they will probably be gone at the end of this month. The PMO will continue to run
internally after Bain has gone, as this is a very disciplined way of running projects. Dr. Raju stated that, at some
Page 6 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 7

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
point, he would be happy to give a full presentation on Bain’s total activities during their four-month engagement.
Chairman Carvalho responded that the Board would be interested in receiving a report on this subject4.
Dr. Raju’s report included the recognition of the following events/individuals/subjects:
 Dave Krupa, Painter – Provident Hospital
 Roger Perry, Machinist Foreman – Stroger Hospital
A. Wrap-up Report from PricewaterhouseCoopers (Attachment #2)
Chairman Carvalho introduced William Luallen and David Harris, of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC).
Chairman Carvalho stated that he had asked for this report, in the nature of an exit interview. PwC has been
fundamentally intertwined with the System over the last several years, working at all sorts of levels to make
up for/help out with/share best practices with every level of the organization. Chairman Carvalho thought
that the Directors would benefit from hearing their perspectives as they exit, both to inform the Board of the
accomplishments during that time frame, as well as to provide an idea of what remains to be done. He added
that the premise for this and several other engagements of consultants in the System has been the aim of
hiring consultants to leave the System in a better position and with knowledge transfer.
During the presentation, Mr. Luallen noted that the one issue PwC did not recognize until they began working
in July 2010 was how many people they would have to inject into the departments to actually do the work.
He stated that he was happy to say there are not any staff positions being augmented by PwC staff at this
time. Back in July 2011, when the current management team came on board, it was determined that
elimination of the staff augmentation and recruitment of employees to do this work was a top priority.
During Mr. Harris’ review of the information provided regarding the Revenue Cycle activities, he
recommended that further thought and focus should be provided to the issue surrounding the System’s
inability to collect co-pays at the point of service. He noted that this issue ties into some of the programs like
CareLink, and it will become an increasingly bigger issue as it relates to health care reform. One of the big
inhibitors relating to this issue is the fact that the System cannot process credit cards, because the patient
would have to assume the credit card fee or the basis points for that transaction. He recommended that the
System work very closely with the County to have the County absorb those credit card processing fees. If the
System really wants to collect money at the point of service, he believes that most people prefer to use their
debit or credit card, even for a $5 or $10 co-pay.
Chairman Carvalho referenced Mr. Luallen’s earlier comments regarding a revenue cycle report card; he
inquired whether Mr. Luallen could perhaps be able to work with Director O’Donnell to tailor something
similar for this Board – something of a higher-level view, not a management-level view. Mr. Luallen
responded affirmatively5.
Chairman Carvalho stated that, with regard to the subject of point of service collection of co-pays, there are
policy implications in that and a policy choice; he asked whether Mr. Luallen or Mr. Cookinham have access
to information of what other systems, particularly other public health systems, are doing in this regard - both
the specific detail that was mentioned regarding credit cards, and whether those systems are collecting copays at all. Mr. Luallen responded that there was an April 2010 report prepared by PwC that compared the
System with other health systems, and addressed subjects such as the collection of co-pays. He stated that
this information can be re-examined and updated to see what has evolved6.

Page 7 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 8

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer
A. Wrap-up Report from PricewaterhouseCoopers (continued)
Chairman Carvalho inquired further regarding the information provided on optimizing the Cerner System. He
asked whether Mr. Harris could elaborate further on the following three questions: What it is that the Cerner
System has the capacity to do, in addition to its current utility? What would be the benefit from using it that
way? What would be the impediments?
Mr. Harris stated that the Cerner System is a very good clinical information system, widely used in the
academic teaching hospital setting around the country. The System’s EMR is Cerner. There are certain
feeder systems that will feed the EMR - one of those is called orders. One does orders to a certain degree
with other applications, but one could use Cerner for all the orders; that would be optimal, because one
integrated system would be used to do all the orders, instead of using multiple systems.
Dr. Terry Mason, System Chief Medical Officer, provided additional information. Cerner functions on what
are called “orderables”; everything put in Cerner is an orderable. Because Cerner is a link to the interface to
Siemens, which is the billing system, anything that does not get to Cerner will not get to Siemens. Many of
the tests are ordered in another system, the IRIS System. When a person makes a referral in IRIS, that does
not in turn translate to an orderable in Cerner. Dr. Hota is currently leading a project to create the
functionality in Cerner that currently exists in IRIS, so that staff can then order all of these tests in Cerner, as
opposed to ordering them in IRIS.
Chairman Carvalho clarified that Mr. Harris’ suggestion of enhancing the system in order for orderables and
all tests to all be done in the Cerner System is actively being pursued by System staff. Dr. Mason responded
affirmatively, and indicated that the plan to achieve success on this initiative will be brought for discussion to
the Board or to one of the Committees in the near future7.
With regard to the Cook County Health Foundation, Mr. Luallen offered to provide assistance in a pro-bono
capacity, on behalf of PwC. He noted that PwC helped to form the 501(c)3 organization at Grady Health
System; that organization has now raised over $450 million. Additionally, PwC similarly assisted Jackson
Health System; over $100 million has been raised for that organization within the last two years.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, January 23, 2013
C. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, January 25, 2013
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open Meetings
Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the
public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the
public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more
classes of employees,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against,
affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in
which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed
Page 8 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 9

VII. Closed Session Items (continued)
meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of claims
as provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if
otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or
discussion of claims, loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or
communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental
risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body is a member,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(28), regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and
governmental audit committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion
involves internal control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or
suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards of the United States of America.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call was
taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Golden,
Michael, Muñoz, O’Donnell, Velasquez and Wiese (9)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent:

Director Morris (1)

THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board reconvened into
regular session.
VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared the MEETING
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 9 of 45

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 1, 2013
Page 10

1

Follow-up: for next Board Meeting, discussion of quality and patient safety-related matters (page 3).

2

Follow-up: for April Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, update to be provided on plan for monitoring
facility/technical coding (page 3).

3

Follow-up: for future Finance Committee Meeting, request for presentation on the status of Waiver Demonstration
preparations to address the aspect of the provision of care and fundamental internal restructuring (page 5).

4

Follow-up:

for future Board or Committee Meeting, presentation to be made regarding Bain & Company’s
engagement at the System (page 7).

5

Follow-up: request for development of a Board-level informational tool, similar to a revenue cycle report card (page
7).

6

Follow-up: request for update regarding comparison of other health systems’ policies regarding collection of co-pays
at point of service and acceptance of credit cards for payment (page 7).

7

Follow-up: for future Board or Committee Meeting, update to be provided on initiative to optimize functionality for
Cerner System (page 8).

Page 10 of 45

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
February 1, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 11 of 45

  
RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
February 1, 2013 
 
PUBLIC HEALTH UPDATE 
Cook County Department of Public Health continues on its path toward accreditation. Documents have 
been loaded on the e‐PHAB website (electronic Public Health Accreditation Board site) in preparation for 
the mock site review that is scheduled for February 1, 2013.  
 
An all staff educational update was held in December 2012 to update staff on the Accreditation process, 
implementation of the Strategic Plan 2015, and implementation of the action plans to address the four 
health  priorities  identified  in  the  health  improvement  plan  ‐  Cardiovascular  Disease,  Youth  Violence, 
Adolescent  Sexual  Health,  and  Access  to  Care.  In  addition,  the  staff  all  received  an  orientation  to  the 
1115 Waiver, strategies, and its impact on the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.  
 
The  Communicable  Disease  Control  Unit  continues  to  conduct  active  surveillance  of  influenza  activity 
from  sentinel  sites  including  Ambulatory  and  Community  Health  Network  sites  in  suburban  Cook 
County.  It  appears  that  influenza  activity  has  peaked  in  the  area.  Over  the  past  two  weeks,  there  has 
been a decrease in the number of ICU admissions associated with influenza and reports of influenza like 
illness from emergency rooms in suburban Cook County. The CD Unit continues to actively investigate 
outbreaks of Norovirus. There is increased Norovirus activity in the community mostly reported in long 
term care facilities and restaurants.  
 
The Childhood Lead Poisoning Program (LPPU) is currently working on a grant application for submission 
in the next month to HUD seeking $3,000,000 over 3 years to conduct lead‐based paint hazard reduction 
and outreach through the Cook County Lead Education, Engagement and Remediation Project (CCLEER). 
This grant will focus on 200 housing units of children with blood lead levels between 5ug/dL and 9ug/dL 

Page 12 of 45

 in  the  highest  risk  areas  of  suburban  Cook  County  –  Maywood,  Bellwood,  Cicero,  and  Berwyn.  These 
levels  are  below  current  Illinois  Department  of  Public  Health  (IDPH)  requirements  but  consistent  with 
the  new  recommendations  of  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control  and  Prevention  for  lead  poisoning 
intervention.  
 
The LPPU received notice that they will also be managing windows provided through a settlement with 
the  Environmental  Protection  Agency  (EPA)  with  Feldco®  for  use  in  lead  paint  hazard  remediations  in 
suburban  Cook  County.  These  windows  will  supplement  existing  Torrens  Remediation  Grant  funded 
projects. 
GIFT OF HOPE 
The Gift of Hope Organ & Tissue Donor Network President and CEO Jarold Anderson sent two thank you 
letters for the assistance in coordinating organ donation cases.  The case dated October 24, 2012 saved 
three lives: a 45 year‐old man Illinois that had been waiting for over a year received the lungs; a 48 year‐
old woman from Illinois received the liver; and a 58 year old man from Illinois had been waiting for over 
one and a half years for the right kidney and pancreas.  The case dated October 31, 2012 saved seven 
lives: a 17 year old boy from Illinois received the heart; a nine month old baby from Illinois and a 52 year 
old woman from Illinois received a part of the liver; a 65 year old man from Ohio had been waiting for 
one  month  received  the  right  lung;  a  65  year  old  man  from  Ohio  had  been  waiting  for  three  months 
received the left lung; a 48 year old woman from Illinois had been waiting a year and received the left 
kidney  and  pancreas;  and  a  70  year  old  man  from  Illinois  received  the  right  kidney.    Mr.  Anderson 
extended  his  deepest  appreciation  to  each  Stroger  Hospital  staff  member  that  played  a  role  in  the 
donation process for this patient, beginning with the Intensive Care Unit.  Working together, CCHHS and 
the Gift of Hope to save and enhance the lives of as many people as possible through organ and tissue 
donation. 
STROGER HOSPITAL EXECUTIVE MEDICAL STAFF ANNUAL MEETING 
On January 30, 2013 the Executive Medical Staff (EMS) of Stroger Hospital held their Annual Meeting in 
which they recognized two physicians for their forty years of service:  
Dr. Norman Jacobs, Pediatrics – Dr. Jacobs continues to give a weekly infectology lecture to the 
residents,  is  the  ward  attending  more  weeks  on  service  than  any  other  member  of  the 
Department,  and  is  the  infectologist  365  days  a  year.   He  is  the  Department  historian  and 

2   P a g e  
 

Page 13 of 45

 archivist, with pictures of every resident class ‐ on arrival and at graduation going back decades.  
He  has  an  intricate  filing  system  of  3x5  cards  with  patient  histories,  findings  and  diagnoses  so 
could tell you that in such‐and‐such a year we saw 10 kids with epiglottitis and their ages and 
presenting  symptoms.   He  is  the Chicago‐based  father  or  grandfather  for  generations  of 
international grads who are far from their families. 
 
Dr. Lily Hussein, Oncology ‐  Dr. Hussein came to Cook County Hospital in 1966 to do an internal 

medicine residency. Following this she completed a fellowship in hematology at county, which 
was then a one year program.  At that time the subspecialties were in a state of evolution and 
Medical  Oncology  did  not  exist.    She  went  to  UIC  in  1971  where  Dr  DasGupta  had  just  come 
from  Memorial  Sloan  Kettering  in  New  York  and  had  initiated  post‐graduate  training  in 
oncology.    This  was  a  pioneering  effort  and  as  a  result  Dr.  Hussein  became  one  of  the  first 
medical  oncologists  in  Chicago.    She  has  remained  at  Cook  County  ever  since  with  a  strong 
commitment to caring for our population.   She has kept abreast of a continuously changing field 
while providing the perspective of her long experience to our oncology trainees.  Cook County 
Hospital  and  its  cancer  patients  have  been  the  beneficiaries  of  her  dedication,  expertise,  and 
wisdom for the past 40 years.   
The EMS also acknowledged Dr. David Goldberg two terms he served as President of the Executive Medical Staff 
for Stroger Hospital.  During his tenure as president from 2009‐2012 he performed outstanding service as the 

chief  administrative  officer  of  the  Medical  Staff  and  as  the  Chair  of  the  Executive  Medical  Staff 
Committee with some of the highlights as follows: 














Presided over several EMS peer review deliberations to enforce Medical Staff Bylaws and its 
Rules  and  Regulations,  for  implementation  of  sanctions  where  these  are  indicated  and  for 
the Medical Staff’s compliance with procedural safeguards.  
Served  as  Joint  Conference  Committee  (JCC)  Chairman  and  Ex‐officio  member  of  17  other 
Medical Staff Committees. 
Acted  as  liaison  ‐  collaborated  between  the  Medical  Staff  and  Hospital/System  leadership, 
the  CCHHS  Board  of  Directors,  and  the  Board  of  Commissioners  to  represent  the  views, 
policies and needs of the patients and the Medical Staff. 
Continued  efforts  (from  role  as  VP  of  Medical  Staff  ‐2007/2009)  to  advocate  and  support 
independent governance for the health system. 
 Co‐drafted Medical Staff Resolution  
 Presented at Board of Commissioners hearings  
Held annual meetings and presented annual State of the Medical Staff reports at the same. 
Supported and participated in hospital regulatory and related activities. 
Attended regular Quality and Patient Safety Committee meetings. 
Appointed committee  chairs for:  Internal Review Board (IRB) Committee and Department 
Chair Search Committee. 
Appointed several medical staff committee members as the need arose. 
3   P a g e  

 

Page 14 of 45

 






Honored as Stroger Hospital’s “Physician of the Year”. 
Serves as (interim) Stroger Hospital Bylaws Committee Chairman. 
Appointed committee chairs for:  Credentials, Nominations, and Department Chair Search 
Committees. 
Bylaws:  Headed efforts to amend and obtain approval for recently approved Medical Staff 
bylaws ‐ effective 12/14/12. 
Communications:  Forwards regular electronic updates to the Medical Staff. 
Continuing work on Rules and Regulations Update. 

 
We thank Drs. Hussein, Jacobs and Goldberg for the contributions and dedication. 
 
RECOGNITION 
Dave Krupa, Painter ‐ Provident Hospital 
Dave goes out of his way to provide the patients, visitors and staff with a home like environment.  He is 
always at the ready for any project and handles an emergency like a pro.  There is not job that is too big 
or  small  for  Dave,  he  is  also  the consummate  team  player.    During  preparations  for  the  Christmas 
Holiday the decorations were accidently miss‐placed, Dave purchased a tree and other decorations with 
his own money.  He engages visitors, families and staff and treats all like family. 
  
Roger Perry, Machinist Foreman ‐ Stroger Hospital 
Coordinated all the transfer of equipment from Oak Forest to Stroger Hospital.  Roger is the person to 
call when you need something moved, fixed or taken away. He is never too busy to stop and ask how 
you are doing having seen the way Roger interacts with all staff, visitors and families is proof that he is 
patient  focused.    Over  the  past  25  years  and  even  when  short  staffed,  Roger  has  never  complained 
about any assignment. He is a pleasure to work with and is an asset to CCHHS. 
 
Note:  The Sumner L. Koch Burn Center Annual Report 2012 was submitted under separate cover. 

4   P a g e  
 

Page 15 of 45

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
February 1, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 16 of 45

 www.pwc.com

Working together to
achieve success
Cook County Health &
Hospital Systems
Summary Value Report
November 2012

Page 17 of 45

  

I Our commitment to 

 



Our opportunity to serve youIf one person falls, the other can reach out and help. But someone who falls alone is in real trouble.

We have been fortunate to be working shoulder to shoulder with the dedicated board and
employees at Cook County Health and Hospital Systems for these last two years. We have
had the privilege of supporting one of the country's best safety net hospitals when it
encountered a period of economic strain related to providing unprecedented levels of
uncompensated care for many of the over 300,000 patients who annually come through
their doors. The System was not left alone.
Through blizzards, mandatory furlough days, 3 CEOs, and the worse economic recession
this country has seen since the Great Depression, together we remained steadfast in
honoring CCHHS’ commitment to provide a “comprehensive program of Quality
healthcare with respect and dignity, to the residents of Cook County, regardless of their
ability to pay.”
In the pages that follow, we have highlighted our collective accomplishments across
several areas such as revenue cycle reimbursement, IT optimization, supply chain, clinical
operations, research & grants and public health. Underlying these accomplishments is a
robust knowledge transfer, education, training and knowledge sharing program whereby
we provided over 1200+ deliverables on your Knowledge Web at CCHHS in an effort to
ensure the noted accomplishments are sustained. When we arrived, the organization was
reliant fully on outside assistance. Today, all major business and operating functions are
provided by talented, trained CCHHS employees.
Thank you for the opportunity to be at your side. We are honored to serve.

Best regards,

Bill Luallen
Global Engagement Partner

Joe Albian
Senior Relationship Partner
PwC

Page 19 of 45

3

  

I Collaborating for success

 



Collaborating for success
The following pages provide an overview of where we have supported ,
trained , served and transitioned a sustainable CCHHS over the past 27
months .

PwC

Page 21 of 45

5

 Revenue Cycle - Cash
CCHHS Sponsor: John Cookinham
PwC Leadership Team: Dave Harris

CCHHS narrows budget deficit through improved cash management
transitioning from outsource reliance to a robust and talented internal revenue
cycle team.

FY 2012 Cash vs. Budget and Previous Fiscal Years

$700,000,000
$634.4 M
$600,000,000

$578.3 M
$536.5 M

$500,000,000

$480.9 M

Actual
through
11/30/12

FY2011

FY2012

$400,000,000
$300,000,000
$200,000,000
$100,000,000

$-

FY2010

PwC

Page 22 of 45

6

 Revenue Cycle - Cash
CCHHS Sponsor: John Cookinham
PwC Leadership Team: Dave Harris

CCHHS narrows budget deficit through improved revenue management
 FY2011 CCHHS experienced a budget shortfall of approximately $151
Million
 FY2012 , CCHHS experienced a cash to budget shortfall of approximately
$56.1 Million

$700

Cumulative Fiscal 2012 Cash vs. Budget and
Previous Fiscal Year (in Millions)

$600

$500

$400

$300

$200

$100

$-

Cumulative 2011
PwC

Cumulative 2012

Page 23 of 45

Cumulative 2012 Budget
7

 Revenue Cycle - Cash
CCHHS Sponsor: John Cookinham
PwC Leadership Team: Dave Harris

CCHHS narrows budget deficit through improved revenue management
 FY2012, Medicare cash exceeded FY2011 by $3 Million and Other cash by
$9.3 Million
 15.9% improvement in non-Medicaid cash due to implementation of
commercial claims scrubber group
Cumulative Medicare (in Millions)
$70
FY11

FY12

$60
$50
$40
$30
$20
$10
$-

$30

Cumulative Other (in Millions)
FY11

FY12

$25
$20
$15
$10
$5
$-

PwC

Page 24 of 45

8

 Revenue Cycle – Reimbursement
CCHHS Sponsor: John Cookinham, Bob Vais
PwC Leadership Team: Dave Harris, Jose Robles
Business Driver

PwC’s response

Value to CCHHS

• Need for optimal reimbursement
rates from both Medicare and
Medicaid

• Identified issues on Medicare cost
reports causing understated cost to
charge ratios for Medicare outlier
reimbursement

. Estimated benefit realized for FY11
is $700K with anticipated annual
benefit of $1M

• Need for methodology to capture
all Medicaid Eligible days
allowable for Medicare DSH
calculation

• Estimated benefit related to filing of
amended cost reports is $1M per
• Worked with CCHHS
year. Total estimated benefit $5M
reimbursement team to perform
analysis and revise revenue reported
• Medicaid Per Diem and APL Retro
on report schedules; based on
• Need for methodology to convert
rates analysis negotiation and
analysis, filed amended FY07-FY10
Medicare Cost Report Data based
independent calculation support to
cost reports
on “All Inclusive “ provider type to
realize benefit to date of $49M
serve Medicaid rate setting
• For Medicaid Per Diem and APL
• Estimated impact of revised DSH
process
Retro rates, identified issues on
calculation for FY2009 is $500K;
Medicare/Medicaid cost reports
• Need methodology for reporting
Estimated impact for FY06 is also
causing understated cost to charge
costs and optimizing
$500k.
ratios being used an d incorrectly
reimbursement for services
applied by Medicaid rate setting
• Provided various exercises that will
provided under the proposed
team
allow CCHHS to develop cost report
Medicaid 1115 Waiver.
methodology and process to capture
• Developed independent rate
• Need ongoing support for the
all Waiver related costs and optimize
calculation indicating material
successful implementation of the
reimbursements
underpayments; presented findings
1115 Waiver program as it relates
to Medicaid rate setting team and
• Successfully supported CCHHS
to identifying billing and claiming
their consultants; officials agreed
Waiver team in securing optimal
process for services provided
that the rates must be amended
PMPM rate and we were an integral
under the program.
effective 7/1/2012
part of the team that helped secure
the 1115 Waiver that could be worth
• Assisted CCHHS team in identifying
up to $100M to the system
additional Medicaid eligible days to
be included in the DSH calculation
• Identified opportunities and
operational gaps to be considered
• Worked with CCHHS
during the design of process.
reimbursement team to develop
model for consolidated “system cost
• Updated FY12 and FY13 Medicaid
report” and proposed methodology
Per Diem and APL Retro rates
to capture costs and optimize
embedded PwC findings which were
reimbursement.
the basis for earlier $49M. UPL
payment for Dec 2012 estimated at
• Worked with Medicaid to propose
$8.5 M (Gross) with an additional
approach for cost reconciliation
undetermined payment in Jan 2013
related to Waiver

Original CCHHS Sponsor: Michael Ayres

PwC

Page 25 of 45

9

 Revenue Cycle – Patient Access
CCHHS Sponsor: John Cookinham
PwC Leadership Team: Dave Harris
Business Driver

PwC’s response

• Lack of Pre-Processing prior to
point-of-service

• Implemented Pre-Processing Center
to capture patient information prior
to point-of-service

•
•

•
•
•

Value to CCHHS

• Increase in capturing accurate
patient information and
collaboration with Financial
CCHHS Identified a need to revise
Counseling prior to patient visit to
• Designed and implemented Carelink
Charity Care Program
improve efficiency at time of
charity care program
registration at the point-of-service
Immediate staffing needs to
• Implemented Centralized
support registration at all patient
• Improved customer service and
Scheduling Center to centralize,
access points
access to the hospital and ACHN
streamline scheduling at the clinics
clinics
as well as to improve customer
Inconsistent Scheduling Processes
service
among hospital and ACHN clinics
• Identified opportunities and
• Developed and revised registration
operational gaps that led to review
Inconsistent Registration
processes , job descriptions,
of billing denials and
Processes
implemented policies and
implementation of managed care
procedures and Key Performance
processes such as Illinois Health
Lack of Denials Management
Indicators to support leading
Connect
practice models. Published
• Acquire and report accurate
documents on CCHHS Knowledge
financial information
Web to track and monitor
performance for select clinics
• Key Performance Indicators
• Established Patient Access system
• Leadership and Management
structure and realigned staffing to
development
streamline processes, training and
provide added efficiency
• Conducted multiple educational
sessions for management, site level
business owners and site clinic
registrars to improve scheduling and
registration accuracy and customer
service
• Developed and implemented a
Denials Management program in
Patient Access to review and
adjudicate denial claims
• Functioned in a paired advisor role
to facilitate information system
changes and project management
for revenue cycle initiatives
• Designed a communication plan
among the revenue cycle areas

Original CCHHS Sponsor: Michael Ayres

PwC

Page 26 of 45

10

 Revenue Cycle – Revenue Integrity
CCHHS Sponsor: John Cookinham
PwC Leadership Team: Dave Harris
Business Driver

PwC’s response

• Lack of standard process to create
and update the Charge
Description Master (CDM)

• Implemented Revenue Integrity
• Increase in charge capture at the
Program to increase revenue via
clinics
charge capture awareness and
enhance communication with clinics • Improved knowledge and awareness
as to the importance of charge
• Created a priority schedule to
capture and revenue integrity
engage clinics to the Revenue
Integrity Program
• Identified opportunities and
operational gaps that led to review
• Developed and implemented
of CDM inconsistencies and
policies and procedures, Key
implementation a process to update
Performance Indicators to support
CMS going forward
leading practice models. Published
documents on CCHHS Knowledge
• Acquire and report accurate
Web and Intranet to track and
financial information
monitor performance for selected
clinics as well as to enhance
• Developed Key Performance
communication
Indicators to track and monitor
performance
• Designed and implemented a

• Multiple inconsistent CDMs
• Lack of a formal system-wide
pricing strategy
• Lack of general charge capture
and CDM knowledge and
awareness in the clinics and the
impact on the organization
• Inconsistent charge capture
processes in the clinics
• Lack of a Revenue Integrity
Program
• Lack of formal policies and
procedures as well as
communication with clinics
• CCHHS identified a need to
capture and charge for services
provided in Employee Health

system-wide Pricing Policy

• Established Revenue Integrity
system structure and realigned
staffing to streamline processes,
training and provide added
efficiency

Value to CCHHS

• Leadership and Management
development

• Conducted multiple educational
sessions for management, site level
business owners, site clinic
registration staff as well as clinical
staff to improve charge capture as
well as to gain proficiency in
understanding the CCHHS Charge
Report
• Functioned in a paired advisor role
to facilitate information system
changes and project management
for Revenue Integrity initiatives
• Designed a communication plan
between Revenue Integrity and the
clinics

Original CCHHS Sponsor: John Cookinham

PwC

Page 27 of 45

11

 Revenue Cycle – Central Business
Office
CCHHS Sponsor: John Cookinham
PwC Leadership Team: Dave Harris

Business Driver

PwC’s response

Value to CCHHS

• Need for integrated patient
accounting system and
consolidated business office

• Assisted with the planning, design,
and implementation of one patient
accounting platform and one central
business office

• Consolidated all Enterprise
activities into a single system to
standardize information, reporting,
and data management.

• Worked closely with Union and
CCHHS HR to create a Central
Business Office

• KPI monitoring

• Three separate business offices
with three separate CDM’s
• Outdated billing software and
workflow management tools
• Need for A/R reduction and
improved net revenue
performance
• Lack of Denials Management
program
• Need for a Vendor Management
program
• Need for a Cash Reconciliation
policy and procedures

• Implemented Executive Dashboard
and KPI monitoring
• Assisted with RFP and
implementation of Emdeon billing
software
• Developed and redesigned workflow
management tools for CCHHS staff
and vendors through Siemens
Collector Workstation
• Developed policies and procedures
to support future state workflow
• Focused activity and training on
account resolution

• Improved claims submitted (clean
claim rate and volume) and reduced
of backlogs
• Accelerated Commercial and
Medicare payments through new
billing software.
• Improved overall cash collections
and tools to maintain sustainability
• 30 reduction in A/R since April
2012
• Identified $24M in Medicaid
vouchers previously unapplied to
host system ($15 M Legacy)

• Developed Denials Management
tools within Siemens Collector
Workstation
• Established policies and procedures
to reconcile cash receipts from the
bank deposits to the host patient
accounting system

PwC

Page 28 of 45

12

 Revenue Cycle – Central Business
Office
CCHHS Revenue Cycle

Average Monthly IP and OP A/R Trend
$500,000,000

$443.5 M

$450,000,000

Decrease of $133.3 M

$400,000,000

$310.2 M

$350,000,000
$300,000,000
$250,000,000
$200,000,000
$150,000,000

April

May

June
IP

July

August

September October November

OP (Less OPEX)

CCHHS Revenue Cycle

Average Monthly Charges Held in Emdeon (2012)
$12,000,000

$10.9 M

$10,000,000

Decrease of $8.5 M

$8,000,000
$6,000,000
$4,000,000

$2.4 M

$2,000,000
$-

PwC

Page 29 of 45

13

 Infrastructure Development
PwC was asked to build an infrastructure to make the Health System a
“consultant-free” environment. To that end, PwC employees served as paired
advisors in various departments to work side-by-side with CCHHS leadership
and staff and successfully implemented:
 Trained 250+ CCHHS employees including Knowledge Transfer
 Successfully integrated MEB/WEB firms including transition of selected
work tasks at 12/1/12
 Provided full knowledge transfer of all processes, policies and
procedures and uploaded onto Knowledge Web (1200+ deliverables)
 Seventy-seven (77) PwC employees and subcontractors served in staff
augmentation roles in mission critical positions to ensure continuity
during the transformation transition period to a Cook employee for each
designated function

 PwC employees supported and/or created the infrastructure for specific
departments, in addition to developing and implementing new business
processes for improved operational efficiencies (see table)
Department

Infrastructure

Revenue Cycle

Provided training and staff augmentation roles in
Patient Access, HIM, Charge Capture, Regulated
Payments, Patient Billing and Collections,
Siemens/Cerner Optimization, Vendor Management

Supply Chain

Provided training and Interim Management roles for
Supply Chain Management Director, Director of
Operations, Value Analysis Director and Strategic
Sourcing Director

Clinical Operations

Provided training and 1nterim staff augmentation roles
in Case Management and ED Management

Office of Sponsored Programs (OSP)

Served as Interim Grant Management Director to
establish OSP department

PMO Knowledge Web

Designed, deployed, trained and populated 1200+
deliverables, procedures, process flows and
implementation plans

PwC

Page 30 of 45

14

 Cerner/Siemens
CCHHS Sponsor: Dan Howard, Donna Hart, Dr. Bala Hota
PwC Leadership Team: Pam McCarey
Business Driver

PwC’s response

• To utilize the full functionality • Mapped current and future state
of the existing Cerner
clinical workflow to support
electronic medical record that
Cerner design implementation
will support standardized and
• Completed gap assessment to
complete capture of all data
depict clinical/department
related to the patient visit and
mapping of services performed
the patient care delivered
(order sets) to CDM in Siemens
• Reengineer and standardize
clinic workflow variations for
• Functioned in a paired advisor
the 207 locations
role to facilitate information
system changes and project
management for select tasks

Value to CCHHS
• Increased credibility with
County and State for support for
additional funding
• Connects clinical services (data
standards) directly to financial
performance
• Uses data standards and
corresponding volume as
foundation to measure and
monitor service trending, acuity,
and planning
• Acquires and reports accurate
data to use for negotiating Payer
contracts
• Acquires and reports accurate
data for receiving
incentive/reward payments for
providing preventative care
measures
• Standardized Electronic Medical
Record– required for
Meaningful Use
• Compliant physician billing
(Standardized Physician
Documentation)
• Increased accurate revenue feefor-service & cost reporting
• Allows CCHHS to achieve
sustainable results

PwC

Page 31 of 45

15

 Supply Chain
CCHHS Sponsor: Carol Schneider, Gina Besenhofer
PwC Leadership Team: Ryan Siemers

Business Driver

PwC’s response

Value to CCHHS

• Supply Chain struggling to
provide consistent value and
appropriately support supply
chain management activities

• Establishment of Supply Chain
system structure designed to
support effective, efficient
expense reduction throughout
the organization and a focus on
improved outcomes for patients

• Increased focus on expense
management and reduced nonlabor costs

• Supply Chain operations
antiquated, inefficient and
lacking tools, technology and
defined business processes to
support the organization

• Better engagement of
physicians/clinicians and focus
on quality outcomes

• Improved Non-labor expense
• Improved utilization of
management, including
technology and business process
implementation of Value
efficiencies
Analysis program, and Supply
Chain operations related to
• Improved customer service of
quality, productivity, compliance
end-users
and financial expectations
• Over $25 million in realized
• Developed and revised Supply
non-labor cost reductions over a
Chain Business Processes and
two year period
established Contract and Capital
Management structure to
• CCHHS fully staffed and
support leading practice models.
managed department
• Effectively incorporate
technology in maximizing the
effective utilization of systems to
enhance efficiency objectives

Original CCHHS Sponsor: Anthony Tedeschi

PwC

Page 32 of 45

16

 Operations
CCHHS Sponsor: Carol Schneider
PwC Leadership Team: Deedie Root
Business Driver

PwC’s response

Value to CCHHS

• Improve productivity of the
labor force across the
enterprise with specific goals
of reduction in overtime and
agency/contract utilization
and costs

• Completed benchmark analysis
of the system departments with
opportunities identified,
including overtime and agency
use and established volume
driven productivity targets

• Provided CCHHS with a
productivity monitoring tool and
methodology for budgeting and
managing day-to-day operations

• A tiered nursing services
• Nursing services had
Resource/Float Pool Model was
immediate staffing needs to
developed
effectively support patient care
without significant reliance on
• OR simulation modeling was
overtime and agency/contract
performed, and OR processes
utilization
were redesigned to maximize
utilization and align
• The organization desired to
perioperative services with
improve efficiencies and
inpatient, ambulatory and other
maximize OR
points of access and patient
capacity/utilization
throughput

• Allow for realigning resources
for staffing to reduce the
amount for overtime and
agency/contract utilization
• Simulation modeling provided
recommendations to increase
OR throughput and room
utilization
• Comprehensive policies and
procedures for schedule
management and block
utilization were provided to
improve efficient and effective
OR room utilization

Original CCHHS Sponsor: Roz Lennon

PwC

Page 33 of 45

17

 Operations
CCHHS Sponsor: Carol Schneider
PwC Leadership Team: Deedie Root

Business Driver

PwC’s response

• Standardized framework for
case management and
utilization management to
support the flow of patients
through the system

• Redesigned the case
• Standardized Case Management
management model that
Model that facilitates patient
included a care coordination and
throughput and appropriate
utilization review/management
level of care assignment for
function
reimbursement

• Desire to decrease length of
stay in the ED and improve
patient throughput

• Simulation modeling performed
at Stroger and process changes
for laboratory and radiology
identified
• The front-end process for
Provident ED was redesigned

Value to CCHHS

• Simulation modeling identified
bottlenecks and opportunities to
improve performance based
upon scenario testing. The
redesign of the bottlenecks and
opportunities would reduce
length of stay and improve
throughput in the ED
• The front-end process changes
at Provident ensured
appropriate triage and reduced
length of stay

Original CCHHS Sponsor: Roz Lennon

PwC

Page 34 of 45

18

 Physician Effort & Funding
(Teaching, Affiliation, Administrative)
CCHHS Sponsor: Dr. Terry Mason, Dr. Maurice Lemon, Dr. John O’Brien
PwC Leadership Team: Margaret Stover, Pam McCarey

Business Driver

PwC’s response

Value to CCHHS

• CCHHS identified a goal of
assessing and establishing a
mission based model for the
management of its physicians
and faculty" defined by five
areas:

• Assessed the affiliation
agreements and related
operating fund flows and
processes and the teaching
programs including
Undergraduate Medical
Education (UME), Graduate
Medical Education (GME) and
Non-MD Programs.

•

• Conducted effort survey to
obtain an baseline faculty time
distribution— Patient Care,
Teaching, Research and
Administration activities

• Improved grants management
and financial oversight by
CCHHS grants management
team

1. Clinical care;
2. Administrative functions;
3. Research activities;
4. Synergies of Teaching; and
5. Strategic initiatives

Identification of $2.2M per
year of unreimbursed cost
related to UME rotations of the
primary affiliate, Rush
University Medical Center.

• Lower administrative support
cost and redistribution of time
allocation to clinical activities

• Established Office of Sponsored
Programs (OSP) for grants
management
• Implemented new processes to
streamline grant submissions;
identified new grants
opportunities and diversified
CCHHS grant funding
• Developed policies to stimulate
and increase external
sponsorships while protecting
clinical service levels and
compliance controls
• Developed data collection and
reporting tools for grants
management
PwC

Page 35 of 45

19

 ACHN
CCHHS Sponsor: Dr. Terry Mason, Dr. Enrique Martinez
PwC Leadership Team: Pam McCarey
Business Driver

PwC’s response

Value to CCHHS

• ACHN operational business
process inefficiencies
impacting access to care,
provider productivity, clinical
staffing resources, and cost to
treat

• Developed operating model
incorporating core business
processes

• Increased volume and patient
throughput

• Conducted multiple educational
sessions for management and
site level business owners
• Developed and published
interactive web based tool for
analysis and implementation

• Identified opportunities and
operational gaps which served as
the framework for the
development of outpatient IT
Cerner/Siemens
implementation plan

• Initiative transitioned to Dr.
Mason due to CCHHS resource
• Published documents on CCHHS
constraints and ACHN
Knowledge Web to track and
governance. Key contributing
monitor performance for select
factors:
clinics
o Lack of Information
• Recommended to institute
technology to support
Physician Billing
clinical needs thru EHR and
establish productivity and
performance goals
o Multiple operating and
reporting structures without
common organizational
goals

o Competing priorities within
departments

Original CCHHS Sponsors: Dr. Terry Mason and Roz Lennon

PwC

Page 36 of 45

20

 Cermak
CCHHS Sponsor: Roz Lennon
PwC Leadership Team: Deedie Root

Business Driver

PwC’s response

Value to CCHHS

• Need for stronger leadership
to ensure regulatory
compliance

• Staff Augmentation

• Leadership and staff
development

• Developed job descriptions
policies and procedures
• Realigned staffing resources to
more efficiently deliver care

• Developed new model for
delivering medications

PwC

Page 37 of 45

• Protocols for delivering care
within a detention center
• Productivity monitoring tool

• Successful transition to CCHHS
management

21

 Public Health
CCHHS Sponsor: Dr. Stephen Martin
PwC Leadership Team: Courtney Showell

Business Driver

PwC’s response

• The Cook County Department
of Public Health (CCDPH)
identified the need for agency
strategic planning.
• Recent shifts at the county and
state level indicated the need
for a possible shift in agency
approaches to address the
following public health
problems:
o Financial and oversight
changes
o Increased personnel costs
o Shifts in demographics
o Categorical funding
o Increased grants
deliverables and mandates
o Closure or diminished
resources of other certified
local health departments
o Shift in public health role
in provision of traditional
services
o Unclear and increased
pressure on the agency to
respond to all-hazard
threats
o Overall Cook County
budget limitations.

• Performed a benchmark study
• The Cook County Department of
that examined five (5) other
Public Health had a strategic
Health Departments
plan that was grounded in
• Gathered and presented
objective information about:
quantitative and qualitative data
o Leading practices in county
to inform the development of
public health
vision for the future
• Planned, facilitated, and
o Their own performance and
documented the strategic
impact results
planning process, using input
from CCDPH leadership and key
o Community priorities
stakeholders
• Designed, validated and
o Customer perspectives and
executed a methodology (and
expectations
associated tools) to gather and
o Opportunities to integrate
analyze quantitative and
improvements with the
qualitative information
health system
including input from internal
and external stakeholders
• The Department was provided
• Designed a communication and
with information and support to
training plan and associated
engage its employees in
materials (such as group process
understanding the priorities and
design, presentations and
goals of CCDPH
curriculum) to facilitate the buyin and involvement from a range • The Department was provided
of internal and external
with tools to track the
stakeholders including CCHHS
achievement of its strategic goals
• Designed structure and process
for facilitating decisions
regarding roles and ownership
with key system partners

PwC

Page 38 of 45

Value to CCHHS

22

  

I Sharing our insight

 



23

Thought Leadership

PwC draws from its broad perspective and capabilities across and beyond the health
industries to help solve the array of emerging complex problems health organizations face,
lead cultural and clinical transformation, and create a new, sustainable model for care
delivery that is quality driven, patient centered and technology enabled.
We have 4,000 professionals with deep health industry expertise, including physicians,
nurses, information system specialists, health policy analysts, actuaries, financial advisors,
and data analysts. This enables us to collaborate with health industry clients to help them
manage strategic initiatives, deliver financial performance and operational improvements,
manage risk and compliance programs and to align core business processes with health
information technology. PwC’s Health Industries clients include 20 of the top 100
hospitals in the U.S., we audit 40% of the Fortune magazine’s Most Admired: Healthcare,
Insurance and Managed care; all of top 10 commercial payers; municipal, state, and
federal government agencies; and many of the world's preeminent medical foundations
and associations.

Health Research Institute
Through PwC's Health Research Institute we provide new intelligence, perspective and
analysis on trends affecting health-related industries, including healthcare providers,
pharmaceuticals, life sciences and payers. PricewaterhouseCoopers is the only Big Four
firm with a dedicated healthcare research unit. The Institute helps executive decisionmakers and stakeholders navigate chance through a process of research and collaborative
exchange that draws on a network of professionals with day-to-day experience in the
health industries.
PricewaterhouseCoopers offers our clients the benefit of our deep client relationships that
bring real-life value to our engagements. We bring our clients intellectual capital from
around the world to help develop solutions. Our consultants monitor Capitol Hill, state
houses, Wall Street, and global markets to help you understand the issues and make
decisions that enhance healthcare organization's mission, reputation, and financial
strength.

PwC

Page 40 of 45

24

 Thought Leadership
Recent examples of PwC Thought Leadership produced by our Health Research Institute
and subject matter experts include:
Implications of the US Supreme Court ruling on healthcare
The US Supreme Court ruling upholding the Affordable Care Act re-injects a sense of urgency into the transformation of
an industry that represents nearly one-fifth of the US economy. Implementation deadlines that once seemed far off are
now rapidly approach, putting fresh pressure on health organizations to devise innovative ways of delivering highquality, affordable care. This report from the Health Research Institute shares analysis of the implications of the ruling
for health insurers, providers, pharmaceutical and life sciences, state governments, and employers.
Health reform: Prospering in a post-reform world
Through PwC's Health Research Institute we provide new intelligence, perspective and analysis on trends affecting
health-related industries, including healthcare providers, pharmaceuticals, life sciences and payers.
PricewaterhouseCoopers is the only Big Four firm with a dedicated healthcare research unit. The Institute helps
executive decision-makers and stakeholders navigate chance through a process of research and collaborative exchange
that draws on a network of professionals with day-to-day experience in the health industries.
Designing a health IT backbone for Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs)
In theory, ACOs can help clinicians deliver more effective and efficient care across a continuum of preventive, acute, and
chronic care services. However, success will hinge, in part, on the ability to share patient data at the point of care and
rely on historical and longitudinal data for use in managing population health. Unfortunately, the data necessary to
manage a patient's whole health isn't widely shared; currently, it's locked in a myriad of databases. This report looks at
how ACOs will need to unlock and use that data, using the regulatory and market mechanisms available -- or soon to be
available (e.g. health information exchanges (HIEs). To gauge how health executives are designing their health IT
backbone for ACOs, PwC surveyed more than 300 provider executives and administrators. The key findings from that
survey and how to harness key components of the health and stimulus funding are detailed in this report.
Experience Radar 2012: Customer insights for the US healthcare provider industry
PwC’s Experience Radar helps businesses search out and find the often hidden sources of value that drive truly
exceptional, differentiating customer experiences. By helping healthcare providers rank their consumer features by
relative importance to the healthcare public and potential economic benefit to themselves, Experience Radar locates
opportunities to create value—pointing the way toward both top-line growth and bottom-line results.
Top Ten Health Industry Issues in 2012
This year’s report provides more insight into the following trends: the impact of higher deductibles, how providers and
insurers are teaming up for population health, potential drug shortages, health informatics, privacy and security, health
insurance exchanges, Pharma industry adapts to a post-blockbuster business model, social media in health, how politics
may influence policy.

Behind the Numbers: Medical cost trends for 2012
This year's report from PwC finds that the medical cost trend is expected to decrease in 2013. The Medical cost trend
report shares key findings, which includes an explanation of trends contributing to rising costs (accelerators) as well as
decreasing cost trends (deflators).

For more information about PricewaterhouseCoopers in the health industries, please visit us on the web at
www.pwc.com/healthindustries.

PwC

Page 41 of 45

25

  

I Our dedicated team serving


 



Our dedicated team serving CCHHS
Bill Luallen, Partner
Lead Engagement Partner

Larry Patrick, Partner

Phone: (317) 695-1088
Email: bill.luallen@us.pwc.com

Phone: (678) 419-8729
Email: larry.patrick@us.pwc.com

Phone: (312) 298-2018
Email: joe.albian@us.pwc.com

David Harris
Revenue Cycle Team Lead

Margaret Stover
AMC Team Lead

Deedie Root
Clinical Operations Team Lead

Phone: (646) 471-1241
Email: david.harris@us.pwc.com

Phone: (267) 330-1379
Email: margaret.stover@us.pwc.com

Phone: (713) 356-8532
Email: deedie.root@us.pwc.com

Ryan Siemers

Pam McCarey

Engagement Partner

Joe Albian
Senior Relationship Partner

Supply Chain Team Lead

Courtney Showell
Ambulatory Clinics Team Lead Public Health/COE Team Lead

Phone: (312) 298-3783
Email: ryan.d.siemers@us.pwc.com

Phone: (412) 355-8013
Email: pam.mccarey@us.pwc.com

PwC

Page 43 of 45

Phone: (678) 419-7077
Email: courtney.showell@us.pwc.com

27

 Our continuing goal is to add value
by providing high quality and
objective advice to CCHHS and to do
so in a very trusted manner.

We look forward to serving you in the
future.

PwC

Page 44 of 45

28

 www.pwc.com/us

©2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. In this document, "PwC" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers (a
Delaware limited liability partnership), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, each
member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
.

Page 45 of 45

 