REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JANUARY 20, 2009

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Luis Munoz, MD, MPH and Directors Benn Greenspan, MPH,
and Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM (3)

Gerald Bauman, CPA (Non-Director Member)
Absent: None (0)

Also Present: Johnny Brown Chief Operating Officer, John H. Strogcr, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County; Pitt Calkin Interim Chief Financial O?icer, Cook County Health and
HOSpltalS System; Joseph J. Evans, CPA Partner, McGladrey Pullen; Mike
Fogarty - Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; James P. Grigg, CPA - Partner, McGladrey
3r. Pullen; Tim Heinrich, CPA Director, McGIadrey do Pullen; Carolyn Lopez, 
Deborah Santana Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board; David R. Small Interim
Chief Executive Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, January 20, 2009 at the hour of 9:30 AM. at
Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth ?oor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Committee has considered the following items, and upon adeption of this report, the
recommendations follow. 

Roll Call

Deborah Santana, of the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members and it was
determined that a quorum was present.

 

Acceptance of the Report of the Audit Committee
for the meeting ofDecember 5. 2008.

Director O?Donnell, seconded by Chairman Munoz, moved to accept the report of the Audit
Committee for the meeting of December 5, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Consider and approve recommendation to the Board of Directors

to enter into and execute contract with RSM McGladrey Inc.,
for performance audit services

The following representatives from McGladrey Pullen presented information on their quali?cations
with regard to performance audit services: Joseph J. Evans, James P. Grigg, and Tim
Heinrich, CPA. (See Attachment 

REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JANUARY 20, 2009
PAGEZ

Director O?Donnell inquired whether this contract would be replacing the one that was approved with
Deloitte Touche for performance audit services on the contingency contract with MedAssets.

Chairman Munoz explained that there was a conflict of interest issue involved with Deloitte Touche
with regard to performing performance audit services on the contingency contract with MedAssets,
therefore, Deloitte dc Touche?s services will not be used for this purpose. Other auditing ?rms were
researched, and as a- result, the performance auditing services of RSM McGladrey Inc., are now presented
for the Committee 5 consideration. He stated that this contract is for the performance audit of the
MedAssets contingency contract He added that it is also for other auditing performance type activities
that will be moving forward. The idea is to have an internal audit function developed at the System
however there will be times when an independent accounting firm Is needed to verify what numbers and
statistics the System is coming up with.

In response to Director O?Donnell?s question regarding a timeline, estimated cost, and deliverables, Mr.
Grigg stated that his company basically mirrored what Deloitte 3r. Touche presented. Phase I of the
project, at a projected cost not to exceed $24, 999, is presented for consideration and approval by the
Committee. Mr Grigg stated that he will electronically mail the timeline for the various phases of the
project to Chairman Mu?oz'; he believed that they could be back before the Committee with Phase I
completed within four to six weeks.

Mr. Griggs stated that Phase I includes the following services: obtaining and reading through the
contract; interviewing management and the consultants; preparation of recommendations based on
observations made; obtaining, understanding and developing the scope of Phase and meeting with the
Committee to present a more detailed work plan for Phase II.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved the approval of the recommendation
to the Board of Directors to enter into and execute a contract not to exceed $24,999.00, with RSM
MeGladrey Inc., for Phase I performance audit services. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Discussion of status of Request for Proposals (RFP) for Internal Audit Function Services

Pitt Calkin, Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, presented
information on the status of RFPs for internal audit Function services. He stated that eight proposals were
received before the January 16th deadIine.

Mr. Calkin stated that the selection committee charged with reviewing the proposals and submitting a
recommendation to the Committee includes the following individuals: Chairman Munoz; Mr. Calkin;
David Small, System Interim Chief Executive Officer; and Dorothy Loving, Chief Financial Officer of
Provident Hospital of Cook County. Mr. Calkin asked if one other Audit and Compliance Committee
member could assist by participating in the selection committee; it was determined that Director
O?Donnell would do so. Additionally, Mr. Calkin inquired whether Laura Burman, Cook County
Auditor, should be asked to participate; the response was affirmative.

REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JANUARY 20, 2009
PAGE 3

Mr. Calkin stated that there is a very short time frame to complete this; he hopes to have the selection
committee?s recommendations to the full Board by January 30th, and have these services start by
February 2, 2009.

 

Presentation of Carolyn Lopez, MD
Appointment as Corporate Compliance Adi-loo Work Group Coordinator

Chairman Munoz introduced Dr. Carolyn Lopez. He stated that he has appointed Dr. Lopez as
coordinator of the ad hoc Corporate Compliance Work Group. The concept of this group was created at
the November IT, 2008 meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee; composed of Corporate
Compliance experts from the Chicago area, this group would coordinate with efforts to bring in the
Corporate Compliance Of?cer and assist in the structuring and implementation of the program.

Dr. Lopez addressed the Committee, and stated her goals with regard to this task.

The Committee discussed the information provided. Mr. Small inquired regarding proposed processes;
additionally, he asked whether a timeframe had been set for the purpose of submitting a list of prospective
members to be considered for inclusion in the work group. 

Dr. Lopez stated that she has some ideas for prospective internal and external members. She stated that
she wanted to get some input from Committee members initially to get their thoughts and concerns before
a formal list is submitted for consideration.

Mr. Small stated that he would mention the subject at an upcoming senior leadership meeting for
suggestions of prospective members. It was also determined that Mr. Small would be the single System
contact point for the work group.

 

Corporate Compliance

I Status ofthe search for a Corporate Compliance Officer
. Development of Corporate Compliance Manual and Forms

Mr. Small provided an update on the status of the search for a Corporate Compliance Of?cer, and on the
development of a Corporate Compliance Manual and forms.

Johnny Brown, Chief Operating Of?cer of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, provided
additional information. He is heading up a group charged with the task of initial evaluation of the
candidates for the position of Corporate Compliance Of?cer.

The Committee discussed the information. Questions were raised and addressed regarding the role and
responsibilities of the Corporate Of?cer, and with regard to the plans for the program.

 

REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JANUARY 20, 2009
PAGE 4
Public Comments

Chairman Mu?oz asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.

The Secretary informed the Chair that there were none.

 

Adjournment

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,

Audit and Compliance Committee ofthe_
Board of Directors of the

Cook County Health

and Hospitals System



Dr. Luis MEIER, Wu

Attest:

Mgm?v

?M?tthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

 

The following was requested or was indicated as a follow~up item at this meeting:

Follow-up: Mr. Grigg (MeGladrey dc Pollen) stated that he will electronically mail the timeline for the
various phases of the project to Chairman Mu?oz. On page 2.

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Report of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
January 20, 2009

ATTACHMENT #1

