REPORT OF THE
QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 26, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman David Ansell, Directors Jerry Butler and Luis Munoz, MD, MPH
(3)

Mary Driscoll Illinois Department of Public Health (Non-Director Member)
Absent: Director Benn Greenspan, MPH, FACHB (1)

Also Present: Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s
Attorney; Matthew B. DeLeon Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board of
Commissioners of Cook County; David Small Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook
County Bureau of Health Services; Aaron Hamb, Chief Medical Of?cer,
Provident Hospital; Dr. Avery Hart Interim Chief Medical Of?cer, Cermak
Health Services; Sue Klein Director of Quality, Stroger Hospital of Cook
County; David Barker, MD Chief Medical Of?cer, Ruth Rothstein Core
Center; Judith Frigo, MD Chief Medical Of?cer, Oak Forest Hospital; Angela
Butler Director of Quality Management, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County;
David Fagus Chief Operating Of?cer, Cermak Health Services; Dr. Janice
Benson President, Medical Staff, Stroger HOSpital of Cook County; Dr. Mark
Krause Anesthesiologist, Provident Hospital of Cook County; Peter Orris, MD
Immediate Past President Medical Staff, Stroger HOSpital of Cook County; Jean
Kiriazes - Director of Quality Assurance at Cermak Health Services; Dr. Homar
Abiad, President of the Medical Staff, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on Tuesday, August 26, 2008 at the hour of 1:00
PM. at 1900 West Polk Street, Second Floor Conference Room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Quality and Patient Safety Committee has considered the following items and upon
adeption of this report, the recommendations follow.

Welcome and Introductions
Chairman Ansell provided a brief introduction and welcomed the attendees.
Chairman Ansell introduced Mary Driscoll as a non-Director member of the Quality and Patient

Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System,
and asked Ms. Driscoll to talk about her background.

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

PAGE 2

Ms. Driscoll stated that currently she is the Division Chief for Patient Safety and Quality at the
Illinois Department of Public Health. Prior she was Chief Nursing Of?cer/Director of Patient
Care Services in the Ambulatory and Community Health Network.

Chairman Ansell stated that also present were some outside Directors with expertise in Quality
and Safety that will also be joining the meeting. Chairman Ansell stated that the Boards process
is that Chairman Batts has to formally write something; but he sent given email approval so that
we can move ahead.

Chairman Ansell stated that there will be two parts to the meeting: one is the open session and
the closed session at the end where the committee will be discussing general credential issues.

 

Roll Call

Chairman Ansell determined that a quorum was present.

 

Receive and approve Medical Staff 

JOHN H. STROGER, JR HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS

The medical staff initial appointments, medical staff reappointments, medical staff appointments
to be amended from provisional to full status, medical staff change with no change in clinical
privileges, mid level practitioners initial appointments, mid level practitioners reappointments,
mid level practitioners collaborative agreement and mid level practitioners collaborative
agreement with prescriptive authority presented have been professionally reviewed and
recommended for the status shown. The Quality Committee of the Health and Hospitals Board
will be noti?ed confidentially when there are physicians herein who have any malpractice claims
or professional sanctions when such speci?c cases have not previously been presented to the
Board of Commissioners or the Health and HOSpitals Board. Additional information concerning
such matters will be available on a con?dential basis through the Secretary of the Health and
Hospitals Board.

MEDICAL STAFF INITIAL APPOINTMENTS

Name Department Status
Arcia, Diaz Rosibell Del Carmen, MD Pediatrics Active Physician

Appointment effective: September 3, 2008 through September 2, 2010

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 26, 2008
PAGE 3

MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS

Department of Correctional Health Services

Zawitz, Chad, MD Infectious Disease
Reappointment effective: July 12, 2008 through
Interim privileges were granted e??ective July 12, 2008.

Department of Emergency Medicine

Kern, Kevin, MD Emergency Medicine
Reappointment effective: July 1 1, 2008 through
Interim privileges were granted e?ective July I 1, 2008.

Sullivan, Daniel, MD Emergency Medicine
Reappointment effective: September 3, 2008 through

Department of Familv Medicine

Lopez, Carolyn C., MD Family Medicine
Reappointment effective: July 12, 2008 through
Interim privileges were granted e?ective July 12, 2008.

 

Department of Medicine
Abrahamian, Frida, MD Gastroenterology
Reappointment effective: September 6, 2008 through
Balk, Robert, MD Pulmonary/Critical Care
Reappointment effective: July 11, 2008 through
Interim privileges were granted e?ective July I l, 2008.
Cohen, Robert, A., MD Pulmonary/Critical Care
Reappointment effective: July 1 1, 2008 through
Interim privileges were granted e?ective July 11, 2008.
Harris, Charlotte, MD Rheumatology
Reappointment effective: September 3, 2008 through
Jolly, Meenakshi, MD Rheumatology
Reappointment effective: September 3, 2008 through
Khadra, Suhail, MD Adult Cardiology
Reappointment effective: June 19, 2008 through

Interim privileges were granted e?ective June 19, 2008.

Active Physician
July 1 1, 2010

Active Physician
July 10, 2010

Service Physician
September 2, 2010

Af?liated Physician
July 11, 2010

Active Physician
September 5, 2010

Voluntary Physician
July 10, 2010

Active Physician
July 10, 2010

Voluntary Physician
September 2, 2010

Voluntary Physician
September 2, 2010

Active Physician
June 18, 2010

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Khan, Mohammad A., MD
Reappointment effective:

Mason, Ellen, MD
Reappointment effective:

Mba, Benjamin, MD
Reappointment effective:

Mahapatra, Ena, MD
Reappointment effective:

Norlock, Frances, MD
Reappointment effective:

Department of Medicine (cont)

Pelaez, Victor, MD
Reappointment effective:

Sattar, Payman, MD
Reappointment effective:

Vargas, Sergio, MD
Reappointment effective:

Watson, MD
Reappointment effective:

Department of Pediatrics

Pyati, Suma, MD
Reappointment effective:

Tobin, Mary, MD
Reappoi?ntment effective:

General Medicine
July 12, 2008
Interim privileges were granted e?ective July 12, 2008.

General Medicine
July 12, 2008
Interim privileges were granted e?ective July 12, 2008.

General Medicine
December 13, 2008

General Medicine
September 6, 2008

General Medicine
October 16, 2008

Adult Cardiology
July 11, 2008

Interim privileges were granted e??ective July I I, 2008.

Adult Cardiology
June 19, 2008

Interim privileges were granted e?ective June 19, 2008.

General Medicine
September 17, 2008 through

General Medicine
September 3, 2008

Neonatology
July 11, 2008
Interim privileges were granted e?ective July 11, 2008.

Allergy Immunology
July 1 l, 2008
Interim privileges were granted e??ective July 11, 2008.

AUGUST 26, 2008
PAGE 4

Active Physician
July 11, 2010

Active Physician
July 11, 2010

Active Physician
December 12, 2010

Service Physician
September 5, 2010

Active Physician
October 15, 2010

Voluntary Physician
July 10, 2010

Active Physician
June 18, 2010

Active Physician
September 16, 2010

Voluntary Physician
September 2, 2010

Active Physician
July 10, 2010

Active Physician
July 10, 2010

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

 

 

PAGE 5

Department of Surgerv

Anderson-Nelson, Susan, MD Ophthalmology Active Physician
Reappointment effective: September 6, 2008 through September 5, 2010

Ilbawa, Michel, MD Cardiothoracic Active Physician
Reappointment effective: September 3, 2008 through September 2, 2010

Rubin, Gary, MD Ophthalmology Voluntary Physician
Reappointment effective: October 16, 2008 through October 15, 2010

Department of Trauma

Poulakidas, Stathis J., MD Burn Unit Active Physician
Reappointment effective: September 6, 2008 through September 5, 2010

Roberts, Roxanne, MD Trauma Active Physician

Reappointment effective: June 19, 2008 through June 18, 2010
Interim privileges were granted re?ective June 19, 2008.

MEDICAL STAFF CHANGE WITH NO CHANGE IN CLINICAL PRIVILEGES

Ovalle, Alfredo, MD Ambulatory Community Health Network
is requesting a change of category status from Voluntary Physician to Active Physician
effective July 22, 2008

OAK FOREST HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS

The medical staff initial appointments, medical staff reappointments, medical staff appointments
to be amended from provisional to full status, medical staff change with no change in clinical
privileges, mid level practitioners initial appointments, mid level practitioners reappointments,
mid level practitioners collaborative agreement and mid level practitioners collaborative
agreement with prescriptive authority presented have been professionally reviewed and
recommended for the status shown. The Quality Committee of the Health and Hospitals Board
will be noti?ed con?dentially when there are physicians herein who have any malpractice claims
or professional sanctions when such specific cases have not previously been presented to the
Board of Commissioners or the Health and Hospitals Board. Additional information concerning
such matters will be available on a confidential basis through the Secretary of the Health and
Hospitals Board.

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 6
MEDICAL STAFF INITIAL APPOINTMENTS
Name Department Status
Srour, Baseem, MD. Department of Medicine/ICU Visiting
Consultant
Appointment effective August 26, 2008 through August 25, 2010
Langer, Brad, MD. Department of Radiology Af?liate Physician
Appointment effective August 26, 2008 through August 25, 2010
Linda, D.O. Emergency Services Af?liate Physician
Reappointment effective August 26, 2008 through August 25. 2010
MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS
Name Department Status
Ambulatory Care Health Network
Fogelfeld, Leon, M.D. Ambulatory Care Health Network Af?liate Physician
Reappointment effective August 26, 2008 through August 25, 2010
Department of Medicine
James, Marshall, MD. Department of Medicine Visiting
Consultant
Reappointment effective August 26, 2008 through August 25, 2010
Depae?neat?GFEmergeaw-Semiees
Emeegeney?Sewiees Af?liate?Emmett}

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

PAGE 7

PROVIDENT HOSPITAL OF COOK COUNTY
MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS

The medical staff initial appointments, medical staff reappointments, medical staff appointments
to be amended from provisional to full status, medical staff change with no change in clinical
privileges, mid level practitioners initial appointments, mid level practitioners reappointments,
mid level practitioners collaborative agreement and mid level practitioners collaborative
agreement with prescriptive authority presented have been professionally reviewed and
recommended for the status shown. The Quality Committee of the Health and Hospitals Board
will be noti?ed con?dentially when there are physicians herein who have any malpractice claims
or professional sanctions when such specific cases have not previously been presented to the
Board of Commissioners or the Health and Hospitals Board. Additional information concerning
such matters will be available on a confidential basis through the Secretary of the Health and
Hospitals Board.

MEDICAL STAFF INITIAL APPOINTMENTS

Name Department Status
Godsel, Mark, D.P.M. Surgery Affiliate Physician

Appointment effective: September 3, 2008 through September 2, 2010

Granado, Alfonso, MD. Obstetrics Gynecology Ancillary Physician
Appointment effective: September 3, 2008 through September 2, 2010

LaVeau, Robert, D.P.M. Surgery Af?liate Physician
Appointment effective: September 3, 2008 through September 2, 2010

Kapotas, James, M.D. Surgery Af?liate Physician

Appointment effective: September 3,2008 through September 2, 2010

Pulla, Richard, M.D. Surgery Af?liate Physician
Appointment effective: September 3, 2008 through September 2, 2010 

Thomas, Bonnie, MD. Internal Medicine Provisional
Appointment effective: September 3, 2008 through September 2, 2010

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 8
MEDICAL STAFF REAPPOINTMENTS

Department ofAnesthesiologv

Name Department Status

Krause, Mark, MD. Anesthesia Active Physician
Reappointment effective: November 29, 2008 through November 28, 2010

Department of Anesthesiology (cont)

Savage, Michael, M.D. Anesthesia Active Physician
Reappointment effective: September 17, 2008 through September 16, 2010

Department of Critical Care Medicine

Anupum, Anupum, M.D. Critical Care Active Physician
Reappointment effective: October 17, 2008 through October 16, 2010

Gueret, Renaud, M.D. Critical Care Ancillary Physician
Reappointment effective: October 17, 2008 through October 16, 2010

Department of amilv Medicine

Dixie, Dora, MD, Family Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment effective: October 17, 2008 through October 16, 2010

Floyd, Gail, MD. Family Medicine Active Physician
Reappointment effective: September 20, 2008 through September 19, 2010

Department of Internal Medicine

King, Nicole, MD. Internal Medicine Voluntary Physician
Appointment effective: October 19, 2008 through October 18, 2010

Department of Obstetrics Gynecology

Alshahrour, Adeeb, MD. Obstetrics Gynecology Active Physician

Reappointment effective: September 17, 2008 through September 16,2010

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

 

PAGE 9
Department of Surgery
Failma, Rogelio, M.D. Surgery Af?liate Physician
Reappointment effective: November 14, 2008 through November 13, 2010
Nash, Karan, D.D.S. Surgery Voluntary Physician

Reappointment effective: October 19,2008 through October 18, 2010

I

MEDICAL STAFF CHANGE WITH NO CHANGE IN CLINICAL PRIVILEGES

Miller, Joyce, MD. Family Medicine .
is requesting a change of category status from Voluntary Physician to Ancillary Physician
effective July 22, 2008

Chairman Ansell asked if the Committee had received all the pertinent Medical Staff
Appointments/Re-appointments.

Chairman Ansell stated that he had all of the appointments and re?appointments from all of the
facilities, and asked Dr. Benson if she had a chance to review the Medical Staff
Appointments/Re?appointments.

Dr. Janice Benson, President, Medical Staff, Stroger Hospital of Cook County, stated that there
are five additional names that were sent by email, but do not appear on the list for John H.
Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County that was previously distributed. Dr. Benson stated that she
would distribute the copies of the additional names.

Following are the additional names, as stated in Attachment A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Conneely, Mark, MD Active Radiology Recommended
Danek, Katherine, MD Voluntary Surgery/Ophthalmology Recommended
Eide, Michael, MD Voluntary Surgery/Ophthalmology Recommended
Pathak, Nimish, MD Voluntary Surgery/Ophthalmology Recommended

 

 

INITIAL APPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Mid-level Practioner

 

I Rogers, Jacqueline M., PA-C I Physician Assistant I Emergency Medicine I Recommended I

Chairman Ansell asked Mr. Small if once the appointments are approved they can practice as a
result of this Committee appointment.

David Small, Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services, responded no not
at this point; that is a change in the Bylaws and these will have to go before the System Board on
September 5, 2008 as part of the Quality and Compliance Committee report.

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008
PAGE 10

Dr. Homar Abiad, President of the Medical Staff, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County, informed
the Committee that there was a correction under Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County under the
Department of Emergency Services: Linda should appear under Medical Staff Initial
Appointments and not Reappointments.

Chairman Ansell asked the Medical Staff that was present to look through the appointments to
make sure that they are correct before the motion to approve is taken.

Chairman Ansell stated that Director Butler advised him that because the additional ?ve names
were not on the original agenda he needs to ask for suspension of the rules to add the additional
names to the agenda.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to suspend the rules to take up the
?ve additional names. The motion carried unanimously.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved Approval of Medical Staff
Appointments/Re?appointment as amended. The motion carried unanimously.

 

Review and Discussion of Medical Staff By Laws changes for Provident Hospital

Chairman Ansell called upon Aaron Hamb, Chief Medical Of?cer, Provident Hospital, to address
the Committee regarding the Medical Staff Bylaws for Provident Hospital.

Dr. Aaron Hamb, Chief Medical Of?cer, Provident Hospital, stated that he had prepared for the
Committee an executive summary of the Bylaws for Provident Hospital and actually has a
marked up copy showing the revisions that have to be made and a clean copy with those revisions
in them.

Dr. Hamb explained the reason why Provident Hospital is presenting today is because there is a
Joint Commission Review imminent at Provident and they needed to have a set of Bylaws that
had been approved by the Board and can be presented at the time of the site visit. Further, Dr.
Hamb stated that the only changes that had been made to the Bylaws are terminology as it relates
to the Board. Terminology that previously referred to the Cook County Board of Commissioners
has been replaced with that of Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board and language
relative to the Chief Executive Of?cer for the Board and language relative to Commissioners
versus Directors.

Dr. Hamb stated that he also provided the Committee with the Rules and Regulations of the
Medical Staff as they are supplemental document to the Medical Staff Bylaws, to make sure that
they will be approved along with the Bylaws.

Chairman Ansell asked if in the Bylaws there was a disruptive physician section.

Dr. Hamb stated that in the corrective action process it talks about disruptive physician and also
there is a separate policy that deals with disruptive physician. Also Dr. Hamb added that the
other thing that has been changed in the Bylaws as it relates to the Joint Conference Committee is
that the original set of Bylaws have four Commissioners appointed by the President of the Board;

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008
PAGE ll

and this set of Bylaws to be consistent with the current System Board has three Directors
appointed by the Chairman of the Board to the Joint Conference Committee.

In conclusion Dr. Hamb stated that these Bylaws have also been taken to the Executive Medical
Staff for approval by two thirds vote as per their Bylaws.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved approval of the Medical Staff Bylaws.
The motion carried unanimously.

 

Update on action plan development for re-accreditation of Cermak Health Facility
(Attachment B)

Chairman Ansell stated that David Fagus and Dr. Hart of Cermak Health Services will be
addressing the Committee regarding their plan for reaccredidation of Cermak Health Services.

David Fagus, Chief Operating Of?cer, Cermak Health Services, stated that the Cermak Health
Services was accredited in 1982 and in February 2007 Cermak Health Services withdrew the
accreditation because Cermak was facing tremendous challenges in terms of the medical records.

Mr. Fagus stated that the fundamental problem with the records is that the campus is 100 acres
and there is a tremendous amount of patients coming in, approximately 100,000 every year and
with a manual paper driven system it is impossible to have the records follow the patients
everywhere they go in a consistent fashion. In conclusion, Mr. Fagus stated that the only
conclusion would be to add a tremendous amount of staff and in the past have not been successful
in getting that.

Mr. Fagus stated that they had initiated a process because Cemer was out there for the rest of the
Bureau and available to Cermak; had Mr. Lance Tyson, Former Chief of Staff to President Todd
Stroger, out to the jail and he discussed that there was legislation in Spring?eld regarding billing
and if passed it would have allowed Cermak to bill, but Mr. Fagus informed Mr. Tyson that even
if that became available at Cermak it would still be impossible for billing because there where no
coders or intact records and the system needed to be improved to a point where you could only
bill but meet the accreditation standards and to provide quality healthcare. A process was
initiated of wiring the compound which we were told three months ahead of schedule and which
should be completed in December. Once that is completed then the process can begin of rolling
out Cerner; it has been in place at Division II since 2007 and we have tried to do the best possible
with what is in place because the Cermak building is wired but does not have the capacity to do
electronic records.

Mr. Fagus stated that form groups have been formed to study accreditation and to ?gure out what
needs to be done to come into compliance. There are 13 work groups that Cermak Health
Services is working with. They are developing recommendations and have gotten past the ?rst
cut. They involve a signi?cant amount of additional staff plus other things that need to be done;
and we are working to make sure that every position that they have requested is justi?ed and are
going to get that together as soon as possible. Obviously there are many budget demands and
Cermak has put in a placeholder budget that does not include all of this because Cermak has not
yet been able to present additional staf?ng request that we feel is appropriate.

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008
PAGE 12

Dr. Avery Hart, Interim Chief Medical Of?cer, Cermak Health Services, introduced Jean
Kiriazes, Director of Quality Assurance at Cermak Health Services.

Dr. Hart gave an update on Action Plan Development for re?accreditation of Cermak Health
Services. (See Attachment B)

Dr. Hart informed the Committee that everything it speaks to is solely about the Adult Facility.
Dr. Hart stated that there are 100,000 people per year passing through; there is an in?rmary for
acute care with 183 beds divided between mental health and medical beds which is the highest
level of care that is provided at Cermak Health Services. Patients that are too sick would go to
Stroger Hospital, Provident HOSpital or Oak Forest Hospital or sometimes an outside hospital.
Cermak Health Services has a full-service mental health facility and the goal is that all 
patients including those that would require a hospitalization stay on campus.

Dr. Hart stated that at Cermak they also have some dental care capacity which is much less than it
was due to cut backs and dif?culty recruiting. Currently there are two dentists to service the
needs of 10,000 inmates on any given day. Further, Dr. Hart stated that the emergency room runs
24/7, and sees lots of trauma although it is not a trauma center.

Dr. Hart stated that inmates have a constitutional right to healthcare. Also he stated that the
responsibility for follow up falls on Cermak. Sick call requests go beyond typical health-related
issues toenail clipping). Finally, turnover is high particularly in a jail where the average
length of stay is 48 days but that masks the fact that there are two subgroups: rapid turnover
group which-is less then two weeks and another group of people who stay many months or years.

Dr. Hart stated that Cermak Health Services voluntarily withdrew from accreditation; it is
preferable to have accreditation but it is not required.

Dr. Hart stated that there is a grievance mechanism which is mandatory for every correctional
facility; it is used to measure patient satisfaction.

Director Mu?oz asked when Cermak Health Services was last accredited.

Mr. Fagus stated that in 2003 Cermak passed the accreditation which was good for three years
and then returned in 2006 to do another accreditation and Cermak withdrew because of the fact
that it would not have passed.

Director Munoz asked what caused Cermak not to seek accreditation.

Mr. Fagus stated that revenue is not an issue; there is not revenue at Cermak it lost 67 positions in
2007 and records have always been a problem. They tried manual solutions to make the records
work better. The ?rst recommendation was to decentralize the records to each division and they
did follow their recommendation where it was possible, but found out that it did not work well
because of the problem that developed when transferring within divisions; and we did not have
enough individuals to move 500 to 600 records from one division to another.

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

PAGE 13

In conclusion, Mr. Fagus stated that Cemer is not ideal for a jail setting, but has been adapted to
meet our needs, and we feel that it will make a tremendous improvement in the record because it
will be accessible.

Director Munoz asked who is helping in this effort to move Cemer.

Mr. Fagus stated that Cerner is up in the Cermak building and in Division II, as that is currently
the only division which is wired.

Chairman Ansell stated that an accreditation is important, and asked when self study will be done.

Mr. Fagus stated that they will do a self study in early 2009 and later in 2009 do the re?
accreditation. As far as corrections there are established forums. There is a weekly meeting with
the Sheriff; but more important to Cermak is that there is a meeting with the Executive Director
of the Department of Corrections who reports to the Sheriff and he is in charge of the whole jail.
That meeting is required by accreditation standards to be held quarterly but Cermak is doing it
at this time and twice a month to catch up on a back log of issues that need to be
addressed.

 

Receive and file reports of Joint Conference Committees meetings from Stroger,
Provident, and Oak Forest Hospitals

Mr. Small stated that the Directors have received previously approved Joint Conference
Committee meetings; they are hospital medical staff joint conference committees that have met in
previous months and it is required that these reports come to the Board and are coming through
the Quality and Patient Safety Committee to be receive and ?le. Upon reviewing any of these
reports questions can be directed either to the President of the Medical Staff or the Facilities
Chief Operating Officers at each of the Hospitals.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to Receive and File the Joint
Conference Committees meeting from Stroger, Provident, and Oak Forest Hospitals. The
motion carried unanimously. -

 

Review most recent Patient Satisfaction survey results from Stroger, Provident. and Oak

Forest Hospitals.
(Attachment C)

Chairman Ansell asked Sue Klein, Director of Quality, Stroger Hospital of Cook County, to give
the Committee an overview of the Patient Satisfaction survey results at Stroger HOSpital of Cook
County.

Angela Butler, Director of Quality Management, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County, stated that
the data is outdated and this is the ?rst time that any of the facilities have had an opportunity to

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008
PAGE 14

look at this data collectively. Ms. Butler stated that when she does her presentation for Oak
Forest Hospital the entire HCAP presentation all of the questions are there.

Chairman Ansell stated that the quality plan should re?ect our goals.
Director Mu?oz asked how a patient is selected to receive a survey.

Ms. Klein responded that Press-Gainey has a survey methodology and mails a survey to the home
of the patient.

Ms. Butler stated that at Oak Forest Hospital they have Spanish and Polish surveys going out, and
what Oak Forest Hospital is looking at now is making sure that the language is captured on
admission or throughout that stay so that when a patient social workers goes to see the patient she
makes sure that she?s capturing the correct language so the survey goes out correctly. Further,
Ms. Butler stated that at Oak Forest Hospital they also have a student looking at the response rate
and the undeliverable because if the surveys are getting undeliverable the bills are also not getting
to the patient.

Peter Orris, MD, Immediate Past President, Medical Staff, Stroger Hospital of Cook County,
stated that over the years the experience has been that we have emphasized staff education to
improve the question of patient satisfaction. Also Dr. Orris stated that this has been universally
unsatisfactory and ineffective, and they need to plan for a system-wide method of incentivizing
staff for positive customer relations with speci?cs and would bring this before the new System
Board of Directors for their thinking on this in the future.

 

Review and discuss progress on the development of ?clinical dashboard: reporting?
(Attachment D)

Chairman Ansell asked Sue Klein, Director of Quality, Stroger Hospital of Cook County to give
the Committee an overview on the progress on the development of clinical dashboard.

Ms. Klein distributed a sample dashboard report developed by Middlesex Health System,
Middletown, CT.

Chairman Ansell inquired whether the Bureau is doing ICD9 Coding.
Ms. Klein responded in the af?rmative.

Chairman Ansell stated that we can sent our data to (UHC) UniVersity Healthcare Consortium for
adjusted mortality, outcomes and complications can be provided without reinventing the wheel.

Ms. Klein stated that she will be willing to try it.

Dave Barker, Chief Medical Of?cer for CORE Center, stated that the Bureau substantially under
codes ?hugely,? also a lot of things are not coded at CORE Center; the vast majority of the
procedures are not included. In conclusion, Dr. Barker stated that a comparison with UHC might
be useful but substantially inaccurate.

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

PAGE 15

Chairman Ansell suggested that the Bureau needs to get better at coding.

Ms. Driscoll stated that the Illinois Department of Public Health is getting ready to put the
Hospital Report Card and Consumer Guide online, and all of the data on?the hosPitals will be
coming from the ICD9 Codes. Further, Ms. Driscoll stated that if the Bureau thinks that they are
not coding accurately accuracy is essential because that data will be in public view by November.

Mr. Small stated that it is not necessarily that the Bureau is coding inaccurately, it is that the
coding is not as robust; and in the past there has not been a need for the Bureau to code the entire
individual services because we bill all inclusive per diem. Further, Mr. Small stated that this is
now exceedingly important for the Bureau because the reimbursement methodology is changing
and there is extreme effort to make this happen.

Chairman Ansell made a recommendation for the various institutions which require a quality plan
which approved by Board, metrics should be applied to plan as well as to the dashboards.

 

Receive and file reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committee of Strogg,
Provident, and Oak Forest Hospitals

Chairman Ansell stated that it is not necessary for the Medical Staff Executive Committee reports
to be done on a basis it can be done quarterly.

Dr. Janice Benson, President, Medical Staff, Stroger Hospital of Cook County, brought forward
the minutes of the Executive Medical Staff of June 10 and July 8, 2008 for Stroger Hospital to be
received and filed by the Quality and Patient Safety Committee.

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Butler, moved to Receive and File the 
reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committee of June 10 and July 8, 2008 for Stroger
Hospital of Cook County. The motion carried unanimously.

Dr. Hamb of Provident Hospital of Cook County, stated that he is presenting the minutes of the
Medical Executive Committee meeting of June 27, 2008 for Provident HOSpital of Cook County
to be received and ?led; but the July minutes have not been approval by the Medical Executive
Committee which will be approved on August 29, 2008 and will present them at the next meeting.

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Butler, moved to Receive and File the 
reports from the Medical Staff Executive Committee of June 27, 2008 for Provident
Hospital of Cook County. The motion carried unanimously.

Dr. Abiad of Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County stated that the minutes have not been approved
by the Medical Executive Committee which will be approved on August 28, 2008 and will
present them at the next meeting.

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

PAGE 16

 

Review and approve proposal for changes in Medical Staff approvals process

Mr. Small deferred the above item to the executive sessions portion of the meeting.

 

Update on Quality and Patient Safety activities and performance results from Oak Forest

Hospital
(Attachment E)

Chairman Ansell asked Ms. Butler to address the Committee regarding the update on Quality and
Patient Safety activities and performance results at Oak Forest Hospital.

Ms. Butler gave a power point presentation.
Chairman Ansell thanked Ms. Butler for the presentation.

Ms. Driscoll stated that when she was asked to become a member of the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee she excepted and wants everyone to know that even though she is from the
Illinois Department of Public Health and the'Division Chief for Patient Safety and Quality, her
department is not the Regulatory Department; in fact there is a ?rewall between her department
and the Regulatory Department.

Director Munoz, seconded by Director Butler, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into executive session to discuss personnel matters, pursuant to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration
of ?the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other
health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is
operated by a public body?. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to recess the executive session and
convene into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Receive and Adopt a Schedule of Periodic Quality and Patient Safety reporting
(Attachment F)

Director Munoz, seconded by Director Butler, moved to Approve the Schedule of Periodic
Quality and Patient Safety reporting meeting. The motion carried unanimously.

Chairman Ansell stated that he wants tobe respectful of people?s time and he is open to having
the meeting at any time during the day, but if this time works it?s ?ne with him because the dates
and time are schedule are set to the end of the year around his schedule. Chairman Ansell stated
that there are two other non director members Chairman Batts approved: Pat Meriweather, from
the Illinois Hospital Association and the other is Lee Sacks, he is Chief Medical Of?cer with
Advocate Health System. In conclusion, Chairman Ansell recommended that at this time the

REPORT OF THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY COMMITTEE OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 26, 2008

PAGE 17

6a -
Committee will keep the Tuesday meetings until January and will invite Mr. Saggto come in
January to ?nd a different day of the week that will work for everyone.

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Butler, moved to adjourn the executive session and
convene into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Butler, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,

Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the

Cook County Health and Hospitals System


David Ansell, MD, Chairman

   

Attest:

C79

Wew B. DeLeon, Secretary

APPROVED

 

 
  

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE 9003! COUNTY
HEALTH AND SYSTEM

 



ATTACHMENT A

 

 

Dear Ms. Matela: The entire attached report was approved. However, I have cut and
pasted the ?ve NEW appointments from the whole report. .

me know that you have received both. THANKS

janice benson

Janice L. Benson, MD .

President, Medical Staff, Stroger Hospital of Cook County

 

 

 

 

 

cp 773?802?9486
Conneely, Mark, MD i Active . Radiology . 
Danek, Katherine, MD Voluntary: . . Surgery/Ophthalmology
- Eide, Michael, MD Voluntary 
MD Voluntary Surg'ery/O'ptithaimofdgy .

 

 

 

 

Initial Appointment Applications:

Mid-level Practitioner

 

Rogers, Jacqueline PA-C Physician Assistant Emergency Medicine

 

 

 

 

 

ATTACHMENT 

 

Cermak Health SerVIces of
Cook County

Report to Quality Committee 
C00k C0unty Health Hospitals
- SyStem 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Component Parts

?Adults - 
Cermak Health Services, pr0per

QM do/e5cen t5 Children
Juvenile Temporary Detention Center.

 

 

 

 

Scope Of services

Intake health SCreening: 100 
Infirmary 183 beds

@Chromc Illness care: HIV, HepC STD TB, DM, th,
aSthma, seizures, etc.

Mental health full Service 
Dental care .
Prenatal care: ~50 deliverieS/year
7 Dialysis on Site
Specialty clihiCs on Site
Acute care: ED 24/7 

 



 

Unique Features of QualIty
Improvement In Corrections -

@CultUre clash: security health care I

@ConstitutiOnal rights vs. sOciaI biases
. Guaranteed access 1
- GUaranteed folioW- -up

$Barriers to moVement -

@Confoundmg 0f access

@Turnover: inmates 8; correctIonaI Staff 

 

 

 

'SUrvey: Essential Standards
Requiring Corrective Action (continued)

E-12 Continuity of Care*

Special Needs Treatment Plans*

G-OS Suicide Prevention .

G-06 Intoxication andWithdrawal

Health Record Format* .

H-O2 Confidentiality of Health Records and
Information

 

 



 

Survey: Essential Standards

A-OS.

A-06
A-O7
E-OZ
E-O4

E-O6 -

E-07

Requiring Corrective Action

Policies and. Procedures 
Continuous Quality Impr0vement Program

EmergenCy-Response Plan

Receiving Screening-*1

Health Assessment* 4

Oral Care*
Non- e-mergency Health Care Requests/Services*

Interrelated deficits: HIMD, documentation, legibility

 

 

 

 

 

SLIrvey: Important Standards
Requiring Corrective Action

B-03 Kitchen Sanitation and" Food Handlers**
E-OS Mental Health Screening and Evaluation*
- Personal Hygiene**

G-OZ Management of Chronic Disease*
H-O4 Availability and Use of the Health
Records*

Requires CCDOC intervention 

 

 DecO4-Feb05
VMar-May05
Jun-'AugOS

Sep-Nov05

Mar-May06
Jun-AugOG




Mar-May07

 

 

 

Hundreds

 

 

 

 

   
  
  
  
  
  
   
    

 

 

. 8002 5002

 

 

 

 

sanumeug)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

Duran Case

 

?Chronol09y:

. 1974, case filed; 1982, decree entered
. 2007, Judge Kendall took over case

@Main issues. I I
- Overcrowding (inmates sleeping on floor)
I Inadequate number of corrections officers
$Subsidiary medical Issues

 

 

 

 

Duran Case Medical Issues

$Compound move.
. MoVe dose? -by- -dose patients to Div. II, 
- . Vacate RTU

@?We cannot fix one ConStitutional problem by
creating another? .

Directiveon June 5th for mental health
Establish program space
Move computers

Check patients randomly 15 minLItes
Train in mental health

 

 

Plan for accreditation

 

 

$Executive Committee
@Multidisciplinary work groups I 
?Establish measure key indicators
@PrOcess mapping improvement

@Momtor results 

 

 

 

Reaccreditation Resources

?Infrastructure 
. Information System
. New facility
@Budget positions
. FY 2008: 392 positions
- Lost since 2004: 93 i- 

 

 

ATTACHMENT 

 Stroger?Hospital of Cook County

Hospital Patient Satisfaction for Last 6 Quarter Calendar Year (CY)
Communication and Responsiveness

 

i 2007 {For/X1! Six
Quarter 4 Quarter 1 Quarter 2 - Quarter 3 L, Quarter 4 Quarter 1 Quarters}?

   

70% 60% 59%

 

 

 

   

Continunicationwith ?oaters response(s) response(s)? respOnse(s



F-

 
  



 

 

  

      

Comn?tunication ahogt Medicines

.. . 0 an no
__Aiways) A- 7 71/0 53/ 54/

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data is based .on surveys conducted by Press-Ganey. -

(1) The aggregate rate is from the Hospital Quality Alliance report, and it covers the timeframe from fourth quarter 2006 through third quarter 2007 discharges.
However. Stroger is not included on the Hospital Quality Alliance report since they have not been collecting patient satisfaction data for at least one year.
Red is below nationallstate averages: Yeltow matches national/state averages; Green is above national/state averages 

(2) State and national averages are based on Hospital Quality Alliance data from fourth Quarter 2006 through third Quarter 2007

(-) Stroger Heapital began collecting patient satisfaction data in?July, 2006. -

The Press-Ganey data is currently not available for Provident Hospital. The aggregate data is from the Hospital Quality Alliance report.

Cook County Bureau of Health

Hospital Patient Satisfaction for Last 6 Quarter Calendar Year (CY)
Discharge Information

 

Stroger Hospital

2006(ch mortar? mar-{cry
Quarter-4 Quarter 1 Quarter}: QuarterS Quarterel

Aggregate?ate i Target.
.{ForAtlSix? - .iL Avgz

on

   

1

    

 

       

77%

i; 87% 79% 79%

 

 

zooarc?vr- "memory . tanner)? 200?;ch 
Quartertt - Quarter! ?i Quarter?! Quarters Quarter4 .Quarter't 

   
 

 

65% iae% 75% .76% 70%

 
     

 

 

2035ch zoormvr memory zoo-How '2 gunnery 
Quarterll .Quart'ertg 1 Quarter Quarter3_ Quarter4 gummy

?nla I We n/a n/a n/a

 

 

Data is based on surveys conducted by Press-Ganey.

(1) . Aggregate rate is based on averages from the Press-Ganey results.
However, the aggregate rate for Provident Hospital is from the Hospital Quality Ailiance report for 2006 Quarter 4 through 2007 Quarter 3.
Red is below national/state averages; Yellow matches national/state averages; Green is above nationallstate averages

(2) 'State and national averages are based on Hospital Quaiity Alliance data from fourth Quarter 2006 through third Quarter 2007

(-) Stroger Hospital began collecting patient satisfaction data in July, 2006.

(nla) The Press-Ganey data is currently not available for Provident Hospital. The aggregate data is from the Hospital Quality Alliance report.

 

Stroger Hospital

       
     

 

   
 

. 299.6 {ch-C

. zest-{ctr
Quartem 

Quarter?

Hospital Environment

200? {6113* I
'Quarter3*'_ 

52% of as
respons?e(s)

50% of 28
reSponse(s)

2097 
"Quarter ?4

Cook County Bureauof Health

Hospital Patient Satisfaction for Last 6 Quarter Calendar Year (CY)

2093- 1150:1511: six 

Quarter 

53% of 118'
response(s)

.-,Quarteisr

- um canvas-9n ?new. mew-um. -

   

 

 

    
  

 

 

62% of 26
response(s)

55% Of 86
response(s)

 

 

 

 

55% of 118
response(s)

   

 

   
    

 

Quarter 4_

   

47% M51
-response(s)

   
     

iCteantiness at Hospital (Always) 3 

    

2005 (cw 2007 

responsets)

. 4, 

2007 (CW

Quarter 2 Quarter response(s) response(s)

memory-- .:
QUarteM 

73% of113


Quarter .1. 

63% of

response(s)

 

       

{For All Six 
QuartetSl?

museum-I monum- "nu-Km-

   

136

 

   

45% 0f 49
response(s)

  
 

 

response(s)

 

 

54% of 1.12
response(s)

63% of 56 56% of 87.

response(s}

3'

 

 

 

 

56% of

    
           

132

 

Provident Hospital 5 

2006 
Quarter 4 

 

2007 (cw 200'? (cw

,7 20mm
Quarter: Quarter3__ 

Quarter 4

n/a - ma

 

response(s)

Quarter 1

   

  

 

Aggregate Rate

(Fortunes; 

n/a

Quartersr

   

 

 

Quietness of Hospital (Always)

 

 

 

 

52% 54%

 

 

Data is based on surveys conducted by Press-Ganey.
(1) Aggregate rate is based on averages from the Press-Ganey results. 
However. the aggregate rate for Provident Hospital is from the Hospital Quality Alliance report for 2006 Quarter 4 through 2007 Quarter 3.
Red is below nationalistate averages; Yellow matches national/state averages; Green Is above national/state averages

(2) State and national averages are based on Hospital Quality Alliance data from fourth Quarter 2006 through third Quarter 2007
Stroger Hospital began collecting patient satisfaction datain July. 2006.

The Press-Ganey data is currently not available for Provident Hospital. The aggregate data' Is from the Hospital Quality Alliance report.

 

I, aw ?Aw-eu-

mwnavua um? MMw-uwwiw. w? - - - 

Cook County Bureau of Health

Hospital Patient Satisfaction for Last 6 Quarter Calendar Year (CY)
Global Rating

a.

 

Stroger Hespital

 
    
     

2007th17 A. I?gFo?rAiissx
Quarter? 7- ..Quarter$i?

mum? 
Quarter'i Quarteer Quarters 

:mwmc?a-Wmm

 

 

   

56% of 27 45% of?86 56% of 117
response(s) - response(s) A response(s)

     
   

 

 
        

  

- 74% of27 60% of87 61% of115 I
?ogpltIaHDeffnigeWYes) . I I response(s) response(s) response(ateR?ate
g; 20921.67)? ?hzooucw - zoam?rr?i agor?dlSix
.

.2006. (cm. - {200? row 
Quarter?; Quarter}

      

Quarterz Quarter? some? Quarter? mummy 

   

  

64% of 122
response(s)
63% of 134 .
response(response(s) - response(s) response(s) response(s) response(s)

     
     

 

mu.?

   
  

 
   

Igpessto A 53% of 52 63% of46 62% of 55 59% of 85 68% of112
gHospital {Definitely Yes} . I -. response(s) response(s) response(s) response(s) response(s)

            
            

 

 

 

 

?New. .. NM .0,

 

 

 

Provident Hospital W. War. m. 1.-.., . w-I I. I .. Iv~ .1. ILWII I I .
4 - 2006 (cw at mommy {cw 3 2007 {cw
Quarter 4 -. Quarter 1 i . Quarter 2 

1 .. ggtegate?ate;
2007??) mew?- thor?Alise?
Quartera? QuarterdI?g ?Quarter't 1 



 

?Overall Rating {9-10?Ratingi nla

Willingness to Recommend this 

 

pitai (Definitely Yes)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data is based on surveys conducted by Press-Ganey. .

(1) Aggregate rate is based on averages from the Press-Ganey results. .

- However. the aggregate rate for PrOvident Hospital is from the Hospital Quality Alliance report for 2006 Quarter 4 through 2007 Quarter 3.
Red is below nationallstate averages; Yellow matches national/state averages: Green isabove national/state averages 

(2) State and nationalaverages are based on Hospital QuaiityIAlliance data from fourth Quarter 2006 through third. Quarter 2007

(-) Stroger Hospital began collecting patient satisfaction data in July, 2006. I 

(nla) The Press-Ganey data is currently not available for Provident Hospital. The aggregate data is from the Hospital Quality Alliance report.

Cook CountyBureau of Health

Hospital Patient Satisfaction for Last 6 Quarter Calendar Year (CY)
Global Rating 

             

i .II I. I AggregateRateg Target
i 26674630" . 3 TtForAliSix igmgz
.Quarterj ?Qaarterz a. Quarter3 agrarian; Quarter: Qka??f?thI

 

 

       

- 

56117 61%

responsets) -response(s) response(s)

    

63%

  

?WA-munxsr ..



 

5'

i
It
3

 

    
 

 

intrigue-9.9. to Recommend this. . - - .74%of27 . 60% of87 61% of115 
spitait?sfimtely Yes) . -. response(s) response(s) responsetsOak Forest Hospital . - Ifj?f .- .- ggrg?'ie?sated
2006(075?3" . 20071030? zaoercw 51F0r6il Six -I -
. Quarterlt Quarter?! --Quarter2 I.Quarter3 QuarteM? Quarter?l? 'Quarterstsemi! Rating (9.10 Ratingresponse(s) . response(s) respOnse(s) reSponse(s) response(pita! (De?niteiy Yes} . response(s) response(s) response(s) response(s) response(134

         
         

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

PII'OVldent Hospltal . WWZOONCYV ..- I . . -
QuarteM IQuarter?t . - Quarterz Quarters -?Quarterxt Quarters? . 

 

i?Overatt Rating ?940 RatingIn/a - n/a

.. 

 

EWEtlingness to Recommend this
:Ospital {Definitely Yes) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Data is based on surveys conducted by Press-Ganey.

(1) Aggregate rate is based on averages from the Press-Ganey results. .
However, the aggregate ratefor Provident Hospital is from the HospitalQuality Alliance report for 2006 Quarter 4 through 2007 Quarter 3. 
Red is below nationallstatIe averages; Yellow matches national/State averages; Green is above national/state averages

(2) State and national averages are based on Hospital Quality Alliance data from fourth Quarter 2006 through third Quarter 2007

Stroger Hospital began collecting patient satisfaction data in July. 2006.

The Press-Ganey data is currently not available for Provident Hospital. The aggregate data is from the Hospital Quality Alliance report.

ATTACHMENT 

 

 

 

UREA t'



 

 

Comprehensive Dashboard Board?s EffectiVeness

By Barry S. Bader

Middtesex Health System in
Middletown, Conn., over the last
year has put in place a compre-
hensive, highly readable dash?
board of key performance mea-
sures that not only has enhanced
board effectiveness, but also has
strengthened the hospital?s ties
with local businesses and health
plans.

?We always had the informa?
tion, but it was never in one
place,? explains Susan
Menichetti, the health system?s
vice president for administration,
who directed the dashboard?s
development. ?The problem has
always been cutting down the list
of indicators, and we have
struggled with how to explain the
indicators. It took discipline to
say what each indicator meant and
how the benchmarks were set.?

Report Features

Many boards are adopting
dashboards and balanced
scorecards. Middlesex?s ap-
proach includes a number of
practices worth replicating:

The board receives an inte-
grated set of reports quar?
terly. First, a brief narrative
summarizes the past
quarter?s performance, di-
rects attention to trends of
note and explains any newly
added measures.

a An overall dashboard report

shows key indicators of ?nancial
performance, operations, service
to patients and physicians, human
resources, quality of care, cus-
tomer service and patient safety.
This report is color-coded (see
an excerpt ?om the report, below)
to show whether performance is on

target (green), better than expected
(blue) or worse than expected (red).

Board members wanting more de?
tail about a specific indicator can
?ip to a page showing?at a

see DA SHBOA RD. page 6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

ExCerpt: Financial Indicators from Middlesex Health
System?s Dashboard Report for the Governing Board
Target Hey . 
I Better Than Expected I Expected IWorse Than Expected NIA
Financial
ist Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 4th QtrOperating Margin
I I I Days Cash on Hand
I I I Days in Accounts Receivable
I I I I Debt Service Coverage Ratio
iris? Qtr. vie
I 7.70% 3 Operating I Above Measure of the hospital's ?nancial viability absent investment
Margin Budget income and charitable the hospital's in-
3rd Quarter I Budget temal cash-generating ability essential for meeting debt service
Budget I Below obligations. The 2% benchmark is internally developed and
2. 3% et believed to be a reasonable target to fund ithure investments in
3rd Quarter Budg technology'and infrastructure. Historically. the average operating
2002 2.3% margin in the state has been In the last several years.
however. the industry margins in Connecticut have been
negative. For Fiscal 2001, the average operating margin in the
state was over breakeven at 
I 32,8 I Days Cash I >30 Days indicates the number of days the hospital could operate it no
on Hand . 30 Days further revenue were received; re?ects the hospital's ability to
3rd Quarter I <30 Days pay Operating expenses with operating cash. Statewide
Budget 30 0 statistics are not useful as a benchmark since hospitals account
3rd Quarter for portions of their cash differently. Some show all of it under the
2002 31.6 hospital while others apportion it between the hospital and a
related entity.
I 57 I Days in I <65 Days indicates the number of days revenue the hospital is owed by
Accounts I 55 Days payors; an indicator of the strength of the hospital's cash flow.
Receivable I >65 Days The 65 day benchmark is internally set. Statewide statistics are
3111 Quua?rler not useful as a benchmark because hospitals use different
Budget: 60 accounting methods.
3rd Quarter
2002 60 4
I 5.8 I Debt Service I >1.2 Measures the ratio of funds available for payment of years
Coverage Ratio I 125 principal and interest payment obligations; proxy for debt.
3rd Quarter . <1 25 repayment ability or creditworthiness. The target of 1.25 IS .
Budget 1,25 dictated by the debt covenants in the hospital's CHEFA bond.
3rd Quarter documents.
2002 5.3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Great Boards Bader Associates F3112003

GREAT

BOARDS

 

from page 5

glance?a simple but technically
accurate de?nition of the measure,
an explanation of how the target
was set, and another color?coded
display comparing current and
year?to?date performance against
the target.

0 Many indicators are staples of per-
formance measurement, such as
overall patient satisfaction, oper?
ating margin and sentinel events.
Sometimes Middlesex adds indi-
cators so the board can monitor
speci?c priorities. For example,
when medical technologists-were
in short supply, indicators tracked
the turnover and vacancy rates in
these personnel areas. Once man-
agement stabilized the staf?ng," the
indicators were removed.

0 The indicators are not produced

just for the board. The board?s
committees, medical executive
committee and management and
supervisory staff get and use the
same reports for oversight and
improvement purposes, explains
CEO Robert Kiely.

Using the Information

How has the board responded?
?The report allows the board to ask
what about this and why that,? says
Kiely. F?lt is a stimulus for more dis-
cussion. We used to do detailed Ql
reports, and you lose the forest for the
trees.?

. The board uses the dashboard to
hold management accountable for
meeting performance targets and to

support improvement initiatives.

For example, the board asked for
corrective action to resolve problems
in accounts receivable, says Menichetti.
After learning about the national pa-
tient safety goals, the board asked that

an indicator be added for ?surgical site

marking.?

?By the time the report is produced,
the info is about three 
so often we?ve ?xed problems that
appear in the ?red zone,? says
Menichetti. In that way, ?the report is
like an insurance policy for the board
that demonstrates management in fact
fixes the problems it ?nds.?

For example, Middlesex was run-
ning a $1 million de?cit as of February
of 2003. By the time the board re-
ceived that report, management was
well into implementing a set of initia-
tives that by the third quarter created
a $3 million surplus.

For more information, contact
Robert Kiely at (860) 344-6150 or
Susan Menichetti at (860) 704-3001
or Susan_Menichetti@midhosp. org.

 

On the Web site

See a complelete
narrative and
dashboard -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

report from

Middlesex

Htealth System 


Great Boards Bader Associates Fall 2003

 

into a total to enhance stake-
holder communications

iiMIddlesex Health SySte'tn andeE?i;
many of its balked:

"health plan arguing its rates

'ity care. Local busm'esse'
were concerned 

 

An UnantIprated Benefi

The dashboard has turned
years ago-i;-

Several

at. a centract WIth a major",_

were tbo low to provide qual??L?;

     

 

 

Page 1

MIDDLESEX HEALTH SYSTEM

 

October 2003

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I Worse Than Expected 

 

- Better Than Expected

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Firearmiai 
Mir. rut. rut. Mir. rm Mir. 2"(tlr. 3?0ir. Mir.
I I I - Operating Margin - - Average Daily Census
I I I I Days Cash on Hand I I I I Cost per Case Mix
I 
I I I I Days in Accounts Receivabie qurva ent arge
i I
I I I - Debt Service Coverage Ratio '1 ase Ix ndex
I I I El I [dedicraI/fgrgical
engt tay
is 
- I I Overall-Length of Stay
1mm Fair. Wt 4.0m rm (Excluding Newborns)
I I I Turnover All Employees - I I Discharges
I I I Turnover Staff RNs I I I I Outpatient Surgeries
I I I I Turnover Radioiogy I I I I Endoscopies
I 't
60 no oglss I I I I: I Emergency Department Visits
. I I - El Vacancies Staff RNs . 
Radiology Visits
acancies a iology -
. Technoiogists I I - Laboratory ViSitS
I I [j I Total FTEs per Adjusted
- Occupied Bed

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MIDDLESEX HEALTH SYSTEM

 

 

I Better "Than Expected

 aShb at? I

 

Page 2

October 2003

 

 

 

 

 

 

Qaaiit?y at Care

 

 

1? 8h:

P?lr.

3?01:

4? [111.



 

 

El

Patient Satisfaction 
Inpatient, Outpatient Surgery,
Surgical Center, Outpatient
Tests and Treatments

Nosocomial Infection Rate -
Surgical

 

 

 



 

Patient Satisfaction -
Emergency Departments:
Middietown, Marlborough,
Shoreline

Critical Care: Central Line
Bloodstream Infections

 

Critical Care: Ventilator-related
PneUmonia

 

 

 

Medication Errors

Critical Care: Multidrug
Resistant Organism Isolates

 

 

 

Patient Fall Rate

 

   

 

Percent Usage of Pathways

Peripheraily Inserted Central
Catheter Bloodstream infections

 

 

Total Unadjusted Mortality Rate

Sentinel Event

 

 

 

 

15 Day Readmission Rate

Near Miss

 

 

Primary Cesarean Birth Rate

incident Reports

 

 

Overall Cesarean Birth Rate



Total Cases in Litigation

 

 

Vaginal Birth After Cesarean
(VBAC) Rate

 

New Lawsuits

 

 

Cesarean Birth Surgical Site
Infection Rate

 

 

 

Total Cases in Litigation
Not Previousiy Identified

 

 

 

Vaginal Birth Infection Rate

 

I

 

 

 

 

Cl 

 

 

Newborn Nosocomial Infection
Rate Sepsis

 

 

 HEALTH SYSTEM Page3

    

October 2003

 

 

Expected I Worse Than Expected 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I Better Than Expected

 

Natienel W?ltiitiat??i Hw?w?t? itegesstiitg initiative -
July 2002 through December, 2002 

Heart Attack Care

Ace Inhibitor for Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction (LVSD)

 

 

Aspirin at Arrival

 

Aspirin at Discharge

 

 

Beta Blocker at Arrival

 

Beta Blocker at Discharge

 

 

Heart Failure (CHE) Care

Ace Inhibitor for Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction (LVSD)

 

 

Assessment of Left Ventricular Function

 

?aw

Average Minutes until ?rst Antibiotic (fess is better)

 

Oxygenation Assessment

 

Pneumococcal Vaccination

EDD

 

 

 

 

Dashboard

Page 4

 

 

Financial

Qtr.

YTD

 

 

 

October 2003

 

I 7.70%

Operating Margin

 

3'd Quarter Budget 2.3%

 

 

3'd Quarter 2002 2.3%

 

IAbove Budget
?Budget
?Beiow Budget

Measure of the hospital's financial viability absent
investment income and charitable contributions;
indicates the hospital's internal cash-generating
ability essential for-meeting debt service obliga-
tions. The 2% benchmark is internally developed
and believed to be a reasonable target to fund
future investments in technology and infrastruc-
ture. Historically, the average operating margin in
the state has been In the last several years,
however, the industry margins in Connecticut have
been negative. For Fiscal 2001, the average operat-
ing margin in the state was over breakeven
at 0.2 o. 

 

I 32.8

Days Cash on Hand

 

3rd Quarter Budget 30.0
3rd Quarter 2002 31.6

 

 

 

Days
30 Days
Days

 

indicates the number of days the hospital could
operate if no further revenue were received;
reflects the hospital's ability to pay operating
expenses with operating cash. Statewide statis-
tics are not useful as a benchmark since hospitals
account for portions of their cash differently.
Some show all of it under the hospital while
others apportion it between the hospital and a
related entity.

 

Days in Accounts
Receivable

 

3rd Quarter Budget 60
3rd Quarter 2002 60.4

 

 

 

 

l>65 Days

Indicates the number of days revenue the hospital
is owed by payors; an indicator of the strength of
the hospital's cash flow. The 65 day benchmark is
internally set. Statewide statistics are not useful
as a benchmark because hospitals use different
accounting methods.

 

I 5.8

 

Debt Service Coverage
Ratio

 

3rd Quarter Budget 1.25

 

 

 

 

3"1 Quarter 2002 5.3

I>i.25
$1.25
Id .25

 

 

Measures the ratio of funds available forthe
payment of year's principal and interest payment
obligations; proxy for debt repayment ability or 
creditworthiness. The target of 1.25 is dictated by
the debt covenants in the hospital's CHEFA bond
documents. 

Dashboard -

Page 5

 

 

Human ?eseerces

October 2003

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Qtr. VTD 3" Qtr. YTD
l<2.5% Measure of employee satisfaction/retention.
I 330% I 10-70% Turnover All $2.253; Conne?ticut HospitaBl Association is beginning to
- . 0 >12 0 trackt is statistic. enc mark represents a
stretch goal for improvement based on internal
historical trends. 
3??1 Quarter Budget 2 2.5%
3rd Quarter 2002 3.0%
l<10% Measure of employee satisfaction/retention.
230% I 8-7513 Turnover Staff RNS ?lm/u Benchmark chosen based on experience in other
Magnet Hospitals.
3"i Quarter Budget 2.0%
3rd Quarter 2002 1.59%
l<2.5% l<15% Measure of employee satisfaction/retention.
I - 1 60/" 11 over Badlology Benchmark represents a stretch goal for improve-
l>15% ment based on internal historical trends.
- 3'cl Quarter Budget 2.5%
3?d Quarter 2002 3.0%
l<11.5% Measure of ability to attract new staff.
I 72-55% Vacanc1es Staff RNS a 11.5% Benchmark based on Connecticut Hospital
Association average.
3 Quarter Budget 11.5 Vacancy rate is computed on of the last day
3'd Quarter 2002 10.2% ofthe quartet . 
. N, . . A Measure of ability to attract new staff. Benchmark
I 1.78% Vacanc1es Radlology baseckllon Connecticut Hotspital Assoc/ciation aver-
- age. ational statistics ow an 18 shortage of
a technologists nationwide.
3'd Quarter Budget 11.5% Vacancy rate is computed on of the last day
Quarter 2002 17% ?the 
t. This is a traditional measure used in the health
I 5.04% I 5.02% T012211 FTES care industry to measure staffing productivity. A
. I>Bdgt. hospital with a lower number calculated for this

 

per Adjusted
Occupied Bed

 

 

3'd Quarter Budget 4.63
3? Quarter 2002: 4.9

 

 

 

 

 

 

statistic is generally thought to be more efficient
than a hospital with a higher number. An internal
performance benchmark has been selected based
upon the budgeted staffing level and patientvol-
ume incorporated in the hospital's current year
operating budget. While Middlesex has historical-
ly performed at the state average for this meas-
ure, an internal benchmark has been selected
because industry statistics have been skewed in
recent years by the increased use of contracted 
labor which is not considered by this statistic.

 

MUHH



Dashboazi

Page 6

 

    



Sometime

3''1 Qtr.

October 2003

 

I 139

I 143

Average Daily
Census

 

Quarter Budget 148

 

3rd Quarter 2002 141

 

 

IAbove Budget
?Budget
IBelow Budget

Average number of patients receiving inpatient
care as of midnight each day. Decreasing volumes
may signal deteriorating financial performance
and creditworthiness; trends also indicate effec-
tiveness of marketing strategy, ability to attract
patients and physicians, and changes in the way
care is delivered.

 

I 55,772 I s5,7eo

Cost Per Case Mix
Adjusted Equivalent
Discharge

 

3" Quarter Budget $5 ,45 3
3? Quarter 2002 $5,874

 

 

 

lBelow Budget
?Budget
IAbove Budget

Measure of efficiency which takes into considera-
tion inpatient and outpatient volume fluctuations
as well as inpatient acuity fluctuations.
Historically, Middlesex has been a top performer
in comparison to the rest of the hospitals in the
state. in Fiscal 2001,the latesttime period avail-
able, Middlesex is the second lowest cost hospital
in the state. As a result, an internal benchmark
based on the budget makes the most sense.

 

 

Case Mix Index

 

3rd Quarter Budget 1.1

 

3'd Quarter 2002 1.055

 

 

IAbove Budget

?Budget
lBelow Budget

A numerical value that indicates the severity of
the illness of the total patient population. The base
value is l. The higher the value, the more serious
the illnesses. Each patient is assigned a value cor-
responding to his or her illness based on DRG
(Diagnosis Belated Group). All the values are
added together and then divided by the total num-
ber of patients to obtain the CW. There are more
than 500 DRGs, but considerable variations in
severity of illness and resource intensity can exist
within each DRG, making this index an indication
of severity without being a true measure.

 

I 3.98

I 4.08

Medical/ Surgical
Length of Stay

 

Quarter Budget 4.20

 

3rd Quarter 2002 4.23

 

 

lBelow Budget
?Budget
IAbove Budget

Proxy for resources used per medic all

surgical admission, the largest source of inpatient
revenue; average length of stay significantly longer
than median group values indicates operational
inefficiencies. The average medical/surgical iength
of stay for the state for the second quarter of

Fiscal 2002 was 5.10. 

 

I 4.02

I 4.16

Overall Length of
Stay Excluding
Newborns

 

3'El Quarter Budget 4.30
3" Quarter 2002 4.30

 

 

IBelow Budget
?Budget
IAbove Budget

Key indicator of utilization. Proxy for average
resources used per admission for all types of

inpatient admissions: medical/surgical, maternity,

pediatric. The statewide average
overall length of stay (excluding newborns) for the
second quarter of Fiscal 2002 was 5.37.

 

I 3,275 I 9,725

 

. Discharges

 

3?d Quarter Budget 3,286

 

3'r1 Quarter 2002 3,047

 

 

 

 

IAbove Budget
?Budget
lBelcw Budget

 

Tracks trends in overall inpatient volume, the
largest source of hospital revenue.

 

Minna i-?Si. v5

gin-1555

Dashbogfd

Page 7

 

 

Octet?ie,C 2003

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Goetetiena
3" Qtr. VTD
. lAbove Budget Tracks trends in outpatient surgical volume,
I 2,329 I 77,207 Outpatlent Surgerles Budget combining statistics for the surgery center on
. . I Below Budget Saybrook Road as well as the hospital.
2003 
3rd Quarter Budget 2,697
3'd Quarter 2002 2,628
. [Above Budget Tracks trends in the volume of endoscopic proce-
- 1,342 I 3,615 Endoscoples Budget dures, an increasing source of outpatient revenue
1 Below Budget for hospitals.
2003 
3'd Quarter Budget 1,407
?3"1 Quarter 2002 1,152
[Above Bud et Proxy for utilization of the Emergency
I 181930 I 52,979 Emergency Budget Department's inPMiddIEIztoinrn, Essex, and 
- [Below Bud et Marlboroug . articu aryimportant, givent 
Depar 111161112 ?51125 fact that the hospital receives more than 50% of
its inpatient admissions from the Emergency
Departments.
2003 
3rd Quarter Budget 19,521
3rd Quarter 2002 18,527
- lAbove Bud et Indicates trends in the volume of radiology testing
.31,091 - 90,869 Radlology Tests Nudge, atthe hospital, MMC Shoreline, MMC
IBelow Budget Marlborough, and the Saybrook Road facility
including MRI, CT Scanning, Ultrasound, Nuclear -
2003 Medicine, etc.
3"l Quarter Budget 33,299
3m Quarter 2002 27,648
IAbove Budget Indicates trends in volume of laboratory tests per-
I 5945910 Laboratory Tests $Budget formed throughout the hospital system, as well as
IBelow Budget trends in the number of laboratory specimens sent
2003 to the hospital laboratory for processing.
3?1 Quarter Budget 213,192
3'd Quarter 2002 202,576

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dashboard

Page 8

 

 

Qeaiity bf Care

October 2003

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3'?Qtr. YTD 
- - Hal-100% Measure of patient perception of the quality of
I 97-90% I 97-95% attent Satlsfactton $80-90% care and satisfaction with services. Score repre-
Inpatient, Outpatient Surgery, mathematical meanlaveragelfor all
Sur icai 0 t' 1? questions asked on_ the survey: The four areas
en er, pa surveyed are Inpatient, Outpatient Surgery,
Tests and Treatments Surgical Center, and Outpatient Tests and
Treatments. Benchmark represents the score rec-
"PeCte 80 90 A ommended by the satisfaction survey vendor as
Quarter 2002 97.3% indicative of high performance.
- . . Measure of patient perception of the quality of
I 87-76% I 86-28% Patient Satisfactlon care and satisfaction with emergency department
Emergency Departments-t l<75% services. Score represents the mathematical
mean (average) for all questions asked on the sur-
Middletown, Marlborough, vey. The three areas surveyed are the
Shoreline Middletown, Shoreline emehr-
gency? departments. enc mar represents 
3 thr' ExPeCted 75 85% score recommended by the satisfaction survey
3' Quarter 2002 86.3% vendor as indicative of high performance. 
01% A measure of quality and patient safety. The rate
I 0.07% I 0.009% Error Rate $.01 - 07% of error reflects variation in the systems or
l>.07% (or isolated processes of physician ordering, pharmacy dis-
case with critical pensing, and nursing administration of medica-
negative outcome) tions. The rate is caiculated by dividing the num-
ber of errors by the total number of doses dis-
pensed. An error is defined as the wrong drug,
Number of3rd Qtr. Errors 2003 19 dose, route, time, or patient. Although error is
QB 0 010/ 070/ Inherent in all human processes, the benchmark
XPEC was set to reflect a goal of as close to 0% as pos-
3 Quarter 2002 0.01% sible. There are no national standard benchmarks
for medication error rates.
- - l< or 3.4% A measure of quality and patient safety. Falls-gen-
. 3.45% Panent Fall Rate $3.5 - 4.5% erally result, at least in part, from patient condition

 

(per 1000 patient days)

 

Number of 3'd Qtr. Falls 43
3rd Qtr. Expected 3.5 - 4.5%
3?d Qtr. 2002 5.57%

 

 

 

or 4.6% lor
isolated case with
critical negative
outcome)

and are most often caused by disease state,
weakness, confusion, and medications. Physician
and nursing measures to assess for and prevent
falls reduce the number of falls in the larger popu-
lation of those patients with a potential for fails.
The rate is calculated by dividing the number of
falls by the number of patient days. The bench-
mark was established by reviewing our own inter-
nal, historical fall rates. The hospital recently
beganparticipating in a national reference data-
base for fall rates and will establish new bench?
marks on the basis of this in the future.

 

I 85%

 

 

Percent Usage of

- Pathways

 

3'Cl (211'. Expected 70 84%

 

3'd Quarter 2002 78%

 

 

 

 

I 85 - 100%
$70 - 84%


 

A measure of physician use of established, stan-
dardized practice guidelines for selected diag-
noses. The use of clinical pathways is not man-
dated, but recommended. Clinical pathways serve
to lower? length-of-stay and cost and ensure care -
meets a maximum standard. Patient condition is a
legitimate reason to not utilize a specific pathway.
The percent usage is established by dividing the
number of patients on a pathway by the total num-
ber of patients with the pathway diagnosis.
Literature suggests that 85% of patients with a
designated diagnosis may be appropriate for a
clinical pathway.

 

at iitinl?l'?i 5y

Bashboard i

Page 9

 

 

Quality of Care

3'd Qtr.

YTD

October 2003

 

I 2.37%

I 2.34%

Total Unadjusted
Mortality Rate

 

 

3.. Qu. Expected 2.6 3.0%
3ml Quarter 2002 2.16%

 

 

l<2.6%
$2.8 - 3.0%


The rate is calculated by dividing the total number
of inpatient deaths by the total number of inpa-
tients. Hospice patients are not included in either
the numerator or denominator. It is an unadjusted
or raw mortality rate as the cases of death have
not been adjusted by a clinical severity system to
predict which deaths are anticipated. The hospi?
tal is in process of selecting a software system,
which will clinically and statistically adjust and
predict rates of mortality. The benchmark has
been established utilizing the Maryland Indicator
Project, a national clinical reference database.

 

 

3.01%

2.79%
I

15 Day 
Readrnission Rate

 

 

3"1 Qtr. Expected 3 4%
3" Quarter 2002 1.95%

 

 


$3 - 4%


The rate is calculated by dividing the total number
of patients readmitted within 15 days for the same
or related condition by the total number of inpa-
tient discharges. Because itis an unadiusted or
raw rate, it reflects both those cases inwhich the
readmission is unavoidable, or patient condition - 
based, and those which may be due to premature
discharge or a complication of the first admission.
The benchmark has been established, utilizing the
Maryland Indicator Project, a national clinical ref-
erence database. 

 

I 14.45%

I 15.95%

Primary Cesarean
Birth Rate

 

 

Qtr. Expected 16.1%
3" Quarter 2002 13.32%

 

 

16.1%
$16135


Measures the number of deliveries in which the
patient has had a cesarean for the first time.
Keeping the rate of primary cesarean births low
(by performing only medically necessary cesarean
births) subsequently lowers repeat and overall
cesarean birth rates. The rate is calculated by
dividing the total number of first-time cesareans
by the total number of deliveries. The benchmark
reflects the primary cesarean birth ratefor the
nation in the year 2000 (this rate is 4% higher than
1999 and 10% higherthan the low reported for
1996?1997 nationally).

 

I 25.50%

I 26.50%

Overall Cesarean
Birth Rate

 

 

3rd Qtr. Expected 23.0%
3rd Quarter 2002 22.18%

 

 

I 23%
23%
I >23%

The rate is calculated by dividing the total number
of cesarean births (primary or first time cesareans
and repeat) by the total number of deliveries. The
benchmark reflects the recommendations of the
American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

 

I 7.14%

 

[10.71%

Vaginal Birth
After Cesarean

(VBAC) Rate

 

 

Qtr. Expected 20%
Quarter 2002 10.34%

 

 

 

 

I>m%

20%
I <20%

 

The rate is calculated by dividing the total number
of VBACs performed by the total number of
patients eligible for VBAC in accordance with the
clinical criteria. The benchmark reflects the rec-
ommendations of the American College of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology. Because of recent
clinical evidence relative to the rate and severity
of maternal and newborn complications with
VBACs, there has been a national downward
trend in VBAC rates, although the benchmark
remains unchanged.

 

?iilill'ls irssr

Dashboard

Page 10

 

.rsg
riser ..

 

  

October 2003

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Quality of
Qtr. YTD
. l< 1.4% Measures the number and rate ofinfections
I 039% I 116% cesarean Bll?th $1,401, aqquired post-delivery and refleicts thegmpact of
in action control techniques an proce ures. The
8111? glcal Slte 0 rates are calculated by ditviding the 'nu;nber of
post cesarean infections surgical site by the
Infection Rate number of cesarean births. The target was estab-
lished first by evaluating national rates as pub-
a lished by the CDC, and then setting-more rigid tar-
Number 0f3 Qtr. Infections gets, based on internal historical rates which have
been lowerthan CDC rates00/ Vaginal Birth l< 1% Measures the number and rate of infections
gm, acquired post-delivery and reflects the impact of
Rate j>1% infection control techniques and procedures. The
rates are calculated by dividing the number of vagi-
nal infections (endometritis) by the number of vagi-
nal births. The CDC does not track this statistic.
We have chosen 1% until we have more internal
Number of Qor Infections 0 data and are able to establish our own benchmark.
0% Measures the number and rate of septic infections
I 03% I (10% CW em %1 6% in newborns and reflects the impact of infection
- 1 0% control techniques and procedures. The rates are
calculated by dividing the number of septic infec?
I . tions by the number of newborn patient days per-
11 Rate - thousand. The target for newborn sepsis has not 7
. been established by the CDC and will be determined
internally once enough data has been collected to
establish a benchmark.
Number of 3'11 Qtr. Infections 0
- . 0 Measures the number and rate of infections which
I 051% I 044% occur in patients in the critical care unit. Critical
ml /o . .
. care patients are the most severely Ill patients and,
as such, are compromised, and more likely to
. acquire infection. The rate is established by divid-
Rate - Surglcal ing the number of critical care infections by the
total number of critical! care patients. The target
a - was established first evaluating national rates as
0? Qtr' Infecnons 14 published by the CDC, and then setting more rigid
3' ExPected 1.0% targets, based on internal historical rates which
3rd Quarter 2002 045% have been lower than CDC rates. 
. I .8 0 Measures the number and_rate_of Central line
I 234% I 358% CI'ltlcai care' central age?? related bloodstream infections In the critical care
. unit. Critical care patients are the most severely

 

Line Bloodstream
Infections

 

Number of Qtr. Infections 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

ill patients and, as such, are compromised, and
more likely'to acquire infection. The rate for
bloodstream infection is established by dividing
the number of bloodstream infections by the num-
ber of device days per 1000 (number of days
patient has a central line). The targets for these
are the national rates as published by the CDC.

 

Mimi}! 

Dashboard

in 

i SYSi'i?l? a:

Page 11

 

    

Quality at ?are

October 2003

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Qtr. YTD
. l< Measures the number and rate of ventilator-relat-
- 335% 928% CI'ltlcal care- 0 ed pneumonia in the critical care unilt. Critical
care patients are the most severely i I patients
Venulator related a and, as such, are andl more lilkelyj to
acquire infection. rate for Venti ator-re ate
Pneumonla pneumonia is obtained by dividing the number of
pneumonias by the number of device days per
1000 (number of days patients are on a ventilator). 
Number of Qtr. Infections 1 The target represents the national rates as pub-
lished by the CDC. 
. Measures the number and rate of multi-drug resist-
. 223% I 535% CI'lthZal care? . @70/0 0 antorganism isolate infections in the criticalcare
Multl-drug R651stant l>7% unit. Critical care patients are the most severely ill
0 . I 1 patients and, as are 
1' amsm so at likely to acquire In ection. a rate for Is
CS obtained by dividing the number of MDRO isolates
by patient days per wouhsand. Jhe C073 does  not
. trackt is statistic. ave osen unti we
Nmnber 0? Infecu?ms 2 have more internal data and are able to establish
our own benchmark.
- 0 Measures the number and rate of Peripherally
I 0.00% I 1.36% ally ted Inserted Central Catheter related blood
1 3% stream infections. The rate for PICC bacteremia
Centre catheter infection is established by dividing the number of
1 . infections by the number of device days per 1000.
oodstteam The CDC does not track this statistic; We have cho-
. sen 4.3% until we have more internal data and are
able to establish our own benchmark.
Number of 3?d Qtr. Infections 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

rerun: ill-ALT r: \n1

Dashboar

Page 12

 

 

Quality of Care

Qtr. . YTD

October 2003

 

 

Sentinel Event

 

3" Quarter 2002 0

 

Qtr. 2003 Expected 0' 

 

 

$0
l>0

A measure of patient safety, a sentinel event is
any unexpected occurrence involving death or
serious physical or injury, or risk
thereof. An event is only sentinel if it is not relat-
ed to the natural course of the patient?s illness or
underlying condition. They include death lpre-
ventabie or resulting from treatment); major per-
manent loss of function (preventable or caused by

treatment); infant abduction or infant discharged

to wrong home; confirmed rape of a patient by
another patient or staff; hemolytic transfusion
reaction due to major blood incompatibility; sur-
gery on the wrong patient or body part; suicide in
a 24 hour care setting. A target of zero is set.

 

 

Near Miss

 

3rd Qtr. 2003 Expected 0
3" Quarter 2002 0

 

 

 

$0


A measure of patient safety, a near miss is any
variation in the process of care which did not
result in an adverse outcome, but for which a
recurrence carries a significant chance of serious
adverse outcome. The target is set at zero (0)
because significant variation in care should be
eliminated. However, since a major goal of the
new patient safety program is to encourage 
reporting of near misses as potential safety
threats which should be corrected prior to an
actual event; and there is no way of predicting
how many near misses actually occur, this report
should not be negatively interpreted if near misses
occur and are reported.

 

.285 .968

 

Incident Reports

 

Quarterly Target 2003: 292
Quarterly Target 2002: Z48

 

 

 

 

 

Ilncrease in 
?Same 
IDecrease in 

 

This is a raw data measurement of patient safety.
An incident is defined as any event which is not
consistent with usual operations and may result in
an injury or perceived injury to a patient or visitor.
The goal is to encourage reporting, however, 
since this report is generated by staff and may
require self-reporting, it can be influenced by time
constraints, culture and staff awareness.
Presently, the incident report format is being
revised to enhance ease of reporting, timeliness
of reports and provide anonym'rty for the reporter.
There is no benchmark data available regarding
volume of incidents, however, since there is an
inherent value in open and honest reporting, it is
anticipated that this number will increase and
should net be perceived negatively. Increases in
the number should be viewed as a positive
change in the culture of the organization toward
eliminating potential errors.

 

Da

31.x llama-z: \?nl

shboard

Page 13

 

 

Quaiitfy of Care

Qtr. .YTD

October 2003

 

.18 .18

Total Cases in
Litigation

 

3rd Qu. 2002 9

 

 

 

I<l4
$14
I>l4

The volume of cases in litigation indicates the
potential for liability and financial risk to the hospi-
tal. Given the litigious climate, this is a raw data
measurement and may not indicate the merit of
the lawsuit. Additional review of individual cases
for breaches in the standard of care, trends of
claims/allegations, indemnity reserves and current
jury awards would also need to be considered.
There is no benchmark measure available forthis
indicator aside from our own lawsuit history.
Therefore ranges have been established based on
the average volume of lawsuits.

 

   

New Lawsuits

 

3"1 2002 3

 

 

 

l<3 YTD



YTD

The volume of new lawsuits reflects the possibility
of liability and financial exposure to the hospital.
Since it is difficult to anticipate the likelihood of
cases which will proceed to suit and no bench-
mark data exists, this measurement has been
based on our history of average number of suits
opened per year.

 

   

 

 

Total Cases in
Litigation Not
Previously
Identi?ed

as a Potential

Claim

 

3'd Qtr. 2002 2

 

 

 

 

$0


 

This indicator evaluates the effectiveness of the
Risk Management Program's risk identification
process. The goal of the program is to identify
potential claims in a timely fashion in order to
reduce financial risk and to rectify areas of poten-
tial risk in a timely fashion. The internal goal is 0.

 

Page 14

Dashboard .

 

a:

itteilentery iiespita: Hamsters: tnitiatiye
July 2002 ?irougb December, 2002 

 

Heart Attack (AMI) Care A measure of the quaiity of care in treating congestive heart
A I no failure. In CHF, the heart is a weak pump and ACE inhibitors
ce her or 9ft Ventricular .(77 prevent further weakening.The rate is determined by divid-

ing the number of patients who receive an ACE inhibitor by
the number of patients thatshould have. Top 10% of JCAHD-
accredited Hospitals scored equal to or higher than 93%;Top
50% scored equal to or higher than 77%; CT benchmarks not
yet available.

A measure of the quality of care in treating a heart attack. It

Dysfunction (LVSD)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0
Aspirin at Arrival . $3ng prevents further clotting in heart attack patients. The rate is
. calculated by dividing the number of patients given aspirin
by the total number of patients in which aspirin was indicat-
950/ . ed.Top 10% of JCAHO-accredited Hospitals scored equal to
0 0 85 19511361?!5 or higher than 100%;Top 50% scored equal to or hIgherthan
94%; CT benchmarks not yet available.
- - . A measure of quality in the long term care of patients who
I Aspirin at Discharge gfgg?? have had a heart attack. Maintenance dosing of aspirin on a
daily basis is helpful in preventing additional heart attacks.
The rate is calculated by dividing the number of patients

discharged with a prescription for aspirin by the total num?
ber of patients in which aspirin was indicated. Top 10% of
JCAHO-accredited Hospitals scored equal to or higher than
91 A of 45 pauents 98%;Top 50% scored equal to or higher than 93%; CT

. benchmarks not yet available.

 

 

 

 

 

. a A measure of the uality of care in treating a heart attack.
I Beta Blocker at Arrival @302 During a heart the heart tries to compensate for its
weakened pumping action by beating faster, which puts
more strain on it. Beta biockers reduce the heart's tendency
to beat faster. The rate is calculated by dividing the number
of patients given a beta blocker on admission by the number
of patients appropriate for a beta blocker. Top 10% of
JCAHD-accredited Hospitals scored equal to or higher than
98% of 74 patients 97%; Top 50% scored equal to or higher than 87%; CT
benchmarks not yet available.

 

 

 

 

 

A measure of the quality of care in the long term treatment

 

. 0
Beta Blocker at Discharge $3302 of a heart attack. Maintenance dosingcf a beta blocker is
I <89% helpful in keeping the heartfrom beating faster, thereby

enhancing its pumping ability. The rate is calculated by
dividing the number of patients discharged with a prescrip-
tion for a beta blocker by the number of patients in which
beta blocker is indicated. Top 10% of JCAHD?accredited
Hospitals scored equal to or higher than-98%; Top 50%

 

 

 

 

 

95% 0M3 Patients I scored equal?to or higher than 89%; CT benchmarks not yet
available.
- I a A measure of quality in treating heart attack patients with
Heart Fallure CH Care left ventricular systoilc dysfunction. ACE Inhibitors prevent
Ace Inhibitor for Left Ventricular Systolic I 55% 0 further weakening of the heart in patients who already have

 

weakening. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of
patients who receive ACE inhibitors by the number of
patients who should receive ACE inhibitors, Top 10% of
JCAHD-accredited Hospitals scored equal to or higher than
82% of 45 patients 92%; Top 50% scored equal to or higher than 75%; CT
benchmarks not yet available. 

Dysfunction (LVSD)

 

 

 

 

 

Assessment of Left Ventricular Function l>=95% A measure of the quality of care in diagnosing congestive
=81% heart failure. A test is performed to determine If the lower

l<81% left chamber (1 of 4 chambersl of the heart is pumping
appropriately. Dysfunction indicates the heart as a pump is
too weak. The rate is calculated by dividing the number of
patients with the assessment done, by the number of
patients in which it should have been'done.Top 10% of

JCAHD-accredited Hospitals scored equal to or higher than
90% Of 121 Patients 92%; Top 50% scored equal to or higher than 81%; CT
benchmarks not yet available.

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mini)?; 5.

Dashboard

Page 15

 

Natienal tinientasy Hespitai Reporting Initiative
luly 2002 through December, 2002 -

 

minutes A measure of quality of care in treating pneumonia.
Average Minutes Until ?rst Antibiotic $<=Z4l minutes Antibiotics should be given within 4 hours of diagnosing
(less is better) . I>24l minutes community acqurred pneumonia. The rate Is calculated by
dividing the numberof patients given antibiotics within 4

hours by the number of patients who are appropriate for

antibiotics. Top 10% of JCAHO-accredited Hospitals scored
equal to or less than 169 minutes; Top 50% scored equal to
or less than 241 minutes; CT Benchmarks not yet available.

 

Oxygenation Assessment . [100% A measure of the quality of care in diagnosing patients with
CAP. The RN administers a test (pulse oximetry which
l<97% determines hot saturated the patient?s blood is with oxygen.

The rate is determined by dividing the number of patients in
which the assessment was done by the total number of
pneumonia patients. Top 10% of JCAHU-accredited
Hospitals scored equai to 100%; Top 50% scored equalto or
higherthan 97%; CT Benchmarks not yet available.

 

Pneumococcal Vaccination A measure of the quality of care in preventing pneumonia.
A pneumococcal vaccine can prevent future occurrence of
pneumonia. If a patient admitted pneumonia has not

had a vaccine (given by private doctor or convalescent
home), the hospital administers the vaccine. The rate is
determined by dividing the number of patients in which the
vaccine was given by the number of patients eligible for the
vaccine. Top 10% of JCAHO?accredited Hospitals scored
equal to or higher than 08%; Top 50% scored equal to or
higher than 

 

 

 

 

If fewer than 25 cases are reported, the data is not shown
Middlesex Hospital started abstracting this data in May, 2003

ATTACHMENT 

 

 

Oak Forest Hospital 

Cook County Hospital Health Systems

 

Quality and Patient Safety Committee
August 26, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

Areas covered in this report

 

 

. Regulatory Readiness I Patient Satisfaction
I Quality Monitoring I Hospital

Departmental QPI I ED 

I Medical 'Staff I Rehab

I Patient Safety

I National Patient Safety Patient Commants
Goals

I Sentinel Event Alerts
Medication Errors

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory Readiness

 

I Joint Commission (J C)
I 5 new hospital chapters effective January 2009

1) Emergency Management, 2) Life Safety, 3) Record
of Care, Treatment and Services, 4) Transplant Safety
and 5) Waived Testing

I OFH teams review chapters, score standards and
demonstrate compliance by compiling books of
evidence

I Currently using Accreditation Manager Plus (web?
based system) to record ongoing compliance

 

 

Regulatory Readiness:
Joint Commission cont?d

 

 

 

Annual 2008 Periodic Performance Review (PPR)
Transmitted on July 2, 2008
I Joint Commission conference call (post PPR) held
I Four (4) opportunities for improvement identi?ed
1. Lack of a formalized process for tracking patient ?ow
activities
2. Provision of Patient Care Services

Document awaiting changes due to the dissolution of LTC reorganization
of to Hospital restructuring due to lay-0158' and other
hospital priorities 

 

 

 

 

 

Annual PPR cont-?d

 

- Opportunities for Improvement (cont?d)
3. Organ proCurement and donation
- Ensure that language pertaining to ?systolic organ
recovery? is added to the current hospital policy 
4. Medications, when ordered, must include an
indication for use
- Results presented to MEC and Department of
Medicine

- Data will be collected and reported to the
Department of Medicine Chair, bi-weekly

 

 

Percentage of Medication Orders that 7

 

 

include ?indications for use?

 

1

 

 

 

acute
I rehab

 

 

 

 

Ju 1 15-Jun l-?Jul 9-Ju1' 17-Jul

 

 

 

Hospital Quality Monitoring

 

 

I Department QPI

ll Medical Staff

 

 

 

 

Departmental Quality Performance
Improvement (QPI) Monitoring

 

 

I Departments are expected to select
appropriate QPI indicators (approved) by the
Division Head

I Data and analysis submitted quarterly to
Hospital Quality Council.

 

 

 

 

Median Staff Monitoring

 

I Medical staff Collect data, discuss findings in -
the department meetings and then to Medical
Quality Council

 

Reappointment profile also covers areas
reviewed for medical staff

 

 

 

 

 

 

Medical Staff Indicators
Departmental QPI Indicators

 

See Addendum Section I: 
(yellow packet)

 

want-3! 

 

 

 

 

Patient Safety 

 

Looking to create a Patient Safety Committee or
expand the role of the current Medication Safety
Committee to a ?Patient Safety Committee? similar to
that at Stroger Hospital.

Quarterly staff newsletters on Patient Staff Safety
I See examples of ?Risk Management Times?
I Addendum section: Patient Safety

I National Patient Safety Goals data collected by
Departments/Groups

 

 

National Patient Safety Goals

 

 

I I Departments work With their Division Head to select
criteria to monitor goals applicable to their
department

I Department Head or Designees report quarterly 
results at the Department Head meeting.

I When discrepancies or problems are identified,
information is referred to Quality Council for required
changes to policies, practices, or processes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sentinel Event Alerts

 

 

I Joint Commission periodically issues Sentinel Event
Alerts: . 
. Most Recent Alerts
. #39 Pediatric Mediation errors (4/08) .
- . #40 "Behaviors that undermine a culture of safety?
(7/09)

I All accredited facilities must implement, when
appropriate, strategies/processes/polices and train
staff .

II Failure Mode Effects Analysis could be conducted on
any relevant Sentinel Event Alert

 

 

 

 

 

 

A - National Patient Safety Goals MOnitoring
Responsibility I

- Sentinel Event Alerts

   

See Addendum Section 11:,
(green packet)

 

 

 

 

Medication Errors

 

 

I Medication Safety 
I (subcommittee of Pharmacy Therapeutics)
MisSion: 
Promote a non-punitive environment for the reporting
of medication related errors, identifying trends and

improving system and process problems which may
contribute to errors.

 

Currently using MedMarx system; a national
medication error reporting system.

I 600 facilities participating

 

 

 

MEDMARX 

(system for tracking medicatiOn errors)

 

 

System error categories range from
I Category A Potential for Error th_ru
I Category] =Death I

I Most of OF errors are in the category,

I ?an error occurred and reached the patient, but no
harm was done.?

I OFH has not had errors higher than
My

 

 

 

 

Medication Errors MedMarx

 

 

Reported errors are those made by any member of
the health care team

- Physicians, nurses, pharmacists, and ancillary staff,
such as unit clerks and the admitting department, etc

I OFH subscribes to ISMP (Institute for Safe
Medication Practice)

I In addition, act proactively on errors that have
been reported by other facilities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

MediCation Error Data
January thru June 2008

    

See Addendum Section HI:
(blue packet)

   

 

 

 

 

Medication Errors
Source: MedMarx

 

 

 

 

Remedies for errors identi?ed:

1. Errors are reviewed to determine cause
human failure error

. system process failure

2. If system failure, modi?cationsare made

. morphine immediate release tablets confused with
sustained release PRODUCT DELETED

All errors are reviewed with the individuals who Were
responsible for the errOr and those involved in the error

74. Next steps: Root Cause Analysis conducted for Category
errors 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Satisfaction

 

 

.l Press Ganey used by Acute Care

I Rehab Service uses an independent survey tool
just prior to the ?patient?s discharge

Emergency Department makes available a
satisfaction survey during the patients visit

 

 

 

10

 

Rehabilitation: Patient Satisfaction

 

I Rehab uses an independent survey tool
I Available In English, Spanish and Polish
(as determined by OFH patient population)
I Survey' Is distributed to patients just prior to
discharge

Phone surveys were used in the past but
found unsuccessful

 

 

 

 

Rehabilitation: Patient Satisfaction 2007
he Services/Care met my needs 

 

 

 

 

.640?

 

'50-

 
 
 
 
  

.?rnwr?:

 

40-?

I Strongly Ag
I Agree

 

30-

. Neutral

 

 

 

 

 

Therapy Nursing Medical

 

 

 

 

11

 

Rehabilitation: Patient Satisfaction. . .2008
?The Services/Care met my needs 

 

 

 

 

30'

 
 
 
 
 
  

 

25"

 

20"

 

15'

 

10

 

 

 

 

Therapy Nursing Medical

 

 

 

 

Rehabilitation: Patient Satisfaction 2007

"Received adequate infomatzwon
?Had adequate input about plan of care -
?Satis?ed with discharge plan 

 

 

 

 

   
 

Strongly Ag

I Agree
I Neutral

 

 

 

 

 

Info re Pt input in Discharge
condition decisions Plan

 

 

12

 

Rehabilitation: Patient Satisfaction 2008
?Received adequate information 

?Had adequate input about plan of care 
?Satis?ed with discharge plan 

 

25'

 
 
 
 
 

20'

 

15-?

 

 

 

 

 

if Strongly Ag
I Agree
I Neutral

 

 

 

 

1?3 Disagree

 

 

     

 

 

 

.1 1 gm.?
Info re Pt input in Discharge
condition decisions Plan

 

 

 

Emergency Department:
Patient Satisfaction

 

I Surveys were distributed to patients; results compiled and
reported by Administrative Assistant now on medical
leave.
Last survey conducted February 2008
I 22 survey responses 
15 had comments
I Top 3 areas of patient complaints
I Amount of time to see a physician
i Amount of time to be triaged
I Wait time for tests/treatments

 

Survey tool in the Addendum: ?Patient Satisfaction 

 

 

 

13

 

Press Ganey System:
?Patient Comments?

 

 

I'Patient Comments are compiled and posted
. on database for review

I Comments can be sorted by any field

I For example:

Positive or Negative or Neutral Patient
Comments, Meals, Environment, Cleanliness,
Staff, Discharge Date, Sex, Age,.or other
demographics

 

 

 

 

 

   
     
 
     

Patient Satisfaction

Surveys (Rehab, ER, Acute)
- Results Samples: 1St 2nd 2008

Addendum Section IV:
(orange packet)

 

 

 

 

14

 



Quality Focus Areas.

  

 

I CORE Measures (Hospital Quality Measures)
I HCAHPS (Patient Perceptions Experiences)
I First hospital comparison data released to the public by CMS

I Both focus areas are publicly reported via CMS website ?Hospital
Compare?

I Latest report released data August 2006 thru July 2007

I Next report includes data for Fiscal Year 2007 (release date tentative
September 2007)

Current data for both initiatives is compiled on a more regular basis
through the CMS system and Press Ganey website

 

 

 

 

Performance Improvement Initiatives
2008 - 2009 - 

I Patient- Safety 
I Medication Management - Anticoagulation Therapy
- National Patient Safety Goal I Bureau wide project

 

I Patient Flow

I For 2009, every direct patient care area will select and monitor a patient ?ow
indicator to measure timeliness, or problems _with patient through put

I Expansion of the Emergency room has increased triage TAT
Reorganization and centralization of Ambulatory Care Services

I Continuity of Care
I After Acute Care Clinic

l- Patient Satisfaction
I Improve overall hospital satisfaction rate as compared with
State Nat?l averages
I Increase patient response rates

 

 

 

 

15

 

Other Hospital InitiatiVes

 

 

I Recently signed on to work with the 5' MilIon LIves .
- Campaign

I Decubitus'Ulcers

I Will participate in two (2) projects with the Illinois
Foundation for Quality Healthcare (IFQHC)

Quality Improvement Organization for CMS
I 1) Hospital Survey on Patient Safety Culture
I 2) 

 

 

 

 

Other OFH Initiatives
(Health Education Outreach)

 

 

I Community Outreach Activities
I Participation in Community Events
. Hazelcrest Health Fair

I Career Days: Thornton and Bloom Township High
School

I Taste of 
I Outreach and Screenings
I Kidney Diabetes, Hearing, Blood Pressure, Prostate

I Health Teaching: Smoking Cessation Education, bi-
weekly 

See Addendum Section V: ?Outreach?
(ivory packet)

 

 

 

16

 

 

Regulatory Status I

 

JCAHO 2006 Onsite Survey 7
3? year full accreditation through July 2009
a Four requirements for improvement received in the areas of
Medication Management, Information Management, Medication
Reconciliation (New National Patient Safety Goal); and evaluating
the effectiveness of fall reduction program
- Evidence of Standards, compliance submitted and accepted by the
Joint Commission 
Ongoing Annual Periodic Performance Reviews

. (2007 2008)

Joint Commission on the Accreditation ofHeai'Mc-art Organization: ?Accredi!ed Hasp?al are surveyed unannounced every Ihree years

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory Status

 

 

I JCAHO Laboratory Survey 2007*
I 2 year full accreditation thru Jan 2009

- Three requirements for improvement in the area of Quality
Control . -

- Evidence of Standards Compliance submitted and accepted
by the Joint Commission 
I Annual Periodic Performance Reviews
I (included with hospital survey in 2007 2008)

Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Heallhcare Organizations Clinical Laboratories are survgl'ed
unannounced every two years 

 

 

 

17

 

Regulatory Status

 

 

I CARE Survey 2007 
Full 3 year accreditation thru May 2010

- Programs surveyed:
I Inpatient Rehabilitation Programs Hospital (Adults)

Comprehensive V0cational Evaluation Services
(Employment Services)

I Some areas suggested for improvement were: ?nancial and insurance
information should be included in the disclosure statement,
accessibility plan should be expanded to include barriers in
transportation and attitudes; Grievance literature given to patients
should include a time lines for resolution

I Surveyors?irther stated that the Comprehensive Rehabilitation Unit continues to provide
quality rehabilitation program and he: demonstrated the dedication and commitment
necessary to continually improve the provrsion of care

Commission on Facilities - Survey and accreditation is every three years.

 

 

 

 

Near Future:
Review of Maryland Hospital Association 5 (MHA)
Clinical Quality System

 

 

I MHA to hold presentation for medical staff

I System will provide benchmarking
opportunities and assist with developing best
practices OFH physiCian performance

I Field tested discipline based indiCators

I Current dialog with Bureau IT (Julie Bonello)
and SHCC Quality Director (Sue Klein) on a
possible joint presentation by MHA

 

 

 

18

ATTACHMENT 

Reporting Schedule into the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
By Quality Directors

August 2008 I
September'2008
October 2008
November 2008
December 2008
January 2009
February 2009
March 2009
April 2009

May 2009

June 2009

July 2009 I
August 2009

September 2009

Oak Forest
Provident

ACHN

Stroger

CORE

Cermak

Public Health

Oak Forest
Provident
ACHN
Stroger
CORE

Cermak

Public Health

