REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 7, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Warren L. Batts and Directors David A. Ansell, MD, Hon. Jerry Butler;
David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, MPH, Luis Mu?oz,
MD, Heather B. O'Donnell, JD, and Andrea Zopp (9) .

Absent: Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Director Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM (2)

Also Present: Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County; Patrick
T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the
State?s Attorney; Maurice Lemon, MD, MPH Chief Medical Of?cer, Stroger Hospital
of Cook County; David R. Small Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of
Health Services 

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice on
Thursday, August 7, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 AM. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the
?fth ?oor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to theBoard of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of
members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Approval of the minutes of the meeting of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System Board of Directors of'Wednesday, July 23, 2008 at 7:30 AM.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to approve the minutes of the meeting of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Wednesday, July 23,2008. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT FROM THE SYSTEM CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER

David R. Small, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Bureau of Health Services, provided a status report on
several issues. 

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008

Page 2

The ?rst issue involved the perinatal center program designation. Mr. Small explained that there had
been a site visit to the Stroger Campus last week by the Illinois Department of Public Health. While the
Visit was very thorough and productive, no ?nal decision was been made on the accreditation.

Mr. Small stated that part of the reason for this was because some longstanding issues are still unresolved,
mostly those related to staf?ng. Some of the staf?ng related issues are being addressed through contracts 
with other hospitals, however these contracts have not yet been ?nalized. They are in the process of
submitting proof of the solutions to the unresolved issues.

Director Zopp asked Maurice Lemon, MD, MPH, Chief Medical Of?cer of Stroger Hospital of Cook
COunty, whether he thought that there was a risk of loss of accreditation, or whether he believed that the
information provided to address the unresolved issues would suf?ce.

Dr. Lemon stated that'they are in a position to answer all of the citations inclusively.

Director Golden inquired whether the visit was scheduled.

Dr. Lemon replied af?rmatively, stating that it had been three years since the last visit.

Director Ansell remarked that this was a high-risk visit for the institution, and that there is competition for
these designations. He added that the Obstetrics/Gynecology Residency will soon be visited, where there
. are additional issues. He asked Dr. Lemon for the timeline planned for the response.

Dr. Lemon responded that they planned to submit the documentation by September 1.

Director Zopp asked if there were other areas with these types of risks with pending corrective action.
She added that the Board may be able to assist with resource-related issues, and acknowledged that these
would most likely be addressed in Director Ansell?s Quality and Patient Safety Committee. 

Director Greenspan stated that the-outcome of this issue may affect the System?s ability to serve or draw
high-risk maternity cases; this could impact on obstetrics and gynecology residency and funding. He

asked Dr. Lemon how many babies were delivered at the County last year.

Dr. Lemon responded that there were approximately 1,000 deliveries last year, the County?s proportion of
high-risk deliveries is approximately 15-20% higher than other 1nst1tutions

Director Ansell explained that this is?a crucial service in the System. Transfers in are what this
perinatal center is about; 60% of neonates transfer in, and 40% are the System?s own internal deliveries.

Dr. Lemon added that 111 terms of quality and neonatal services, the morbidity rates are extremely low
compared to national benchmarks. -

Director Butler inquired whether visits at the other institutions in the System would be conducted with
relation to the perinatal center program. -

Dr. Lemon responded that the visit is only conducted at the referral center, which in this case is Stroger
Hospital.-

REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008
Page 3

Mr. Small informed the Board of a pending issue also related to the perinatal network. He stated that the
perinatal network af?liates with community hospitals in the area, in the form of a contract to provide 24/7
physician coverage. Roseland Hospital has been in default for several years now in this regard. There
have been attempts to structure a deal that recognized some payment on past services performed, and
negotiated for future services. There was a recent response from their Board that they were in no position
to pay for past services. Additionally, they wanted to negotiate a contract beginning September for
the same level of coverage but at a reduced contract fee. Currently, they are supposed to pay $150, 000
per year, and Roseland wants to reduce it to $100, 000 per year.

Mr. Small recommended that the matter of the current liability be referred to the appropriate County
of?ces to seek redress and payment. As far as negotiations for future services, he expects to bring a status
report to the Finance Committee at its ?rst September meeting. He added that under the prior negotiated
rate of $150,000 per year, Roseland was already receiving a reduced rate for what it costs the System for
the physician. He would not recommend a reduced amount for the same coverage.

In response to questions from Directors Butler and Golden pertaining to the time period and amount owed
by Roseland, Mr. Small stated that in the four or ?ve years that there has been a relationship, he did not
believe that the System collected any money from them; the total amount owed is in excess of $500,000.

Director Golden inquired whether any other af?liates were similarly in default.
Mr. Small responded that he has not been made aware of similar situations of default.

During the discussion of partnerships with af?liates, Director Mu?oz requested that a list of all contracts
which includes their current payment status, and a list of all partnerships that are non-hospital entities,
such as clmics, be presented to the Finance Committee for ?nther review.

- Mr. Small alerted the Board that he has had discussions with Gene Mullins, Director of Public Relations
for President Todd H. Stroger, with regard to the System?s strategic plan for communication of services
and quality. There is a need to address perception issues, however the staf?ng for these communication
services is currently budgeted in of?ces under President Stroger. It has been Mr. Small?s intention to
engage that of?ce to help draft a strategic communication and public education plan, as the System does
not currently have the resources for this type of Staf?ng. Mr. Mullins has indicated that a plan is currently
being drafted, based upon the initial goals and some data gathering that has been done. This draft plan is
expected to be forwarded to Mr. Small and will be brought to the Board for their review some time in
September.

Director Carvalho inquired whether the President?s press staff currently covers all press interactions for
the System.

Mr. Small responded that there are press staff on-site at the System, but they are under the President?s
budget. .

Director Mu?oz inquired as to how the System can change the arrangement, so that the System can
effectively communicate with the community. 

Mr. Small responded that strategic planning is necessary; the System then needs to work with the
President?s staff to bring these resources to the System

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008
Page 4

Director Muiioz, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to begin discussions on the process to
bring a director of public and community relations to the System and System Board.

Director Golden noted that there are already staff on-site, and inquired whether the motion was to bring
these people under the System?s budget and leadership, or whether the motion was to hire new people for
this purpoSe. -

Director Mu?oz responded that his intention was to have Mr. Small bring back to the Board the best path
to take. Ultimately, these individuals would be under the System Board?s control.

Chairman Batts paraphrased the motion, stating that essentially, management will bring to the Board a
plan for communications, which will include staf?ng needs and costs necessary to execute the plan.

Director Zopp pointed out that there are some issues in which the System is closely aligned with the
County. These will need to be examined by the Board in order to determine whether the System should
move in a different direction. She added that the Chief Executive Of?cer will be determining structure
for many of these 1ssues.

Director Ansell remarked that a broad operational audit should be done. So far, the Board has been
successful in determining the System?s direction piecemeal, however, coordination is important going
forward.

Director Greenspan stated that communication is important; he requested that the Finance Committee
determine the services provided by the County, in terms of dollars, salaries, indirects and overheads.

On the motion, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Mr. Small sought the Board?s direction on whether an annual report due to be ?led by September 1st
should be ?led for a 501c3 tax-exempt foundation which is not'yet operational. This foundation was
started under President Todd H. Stroger.

Director Carvalho stated that there was a foundation in place at the time of the creation of the new
hospital, called County Care.

Director Mu?oz stated that there should be an audit of all foundations in this regard.

Director Greenspan believed that the matter should be reviewed 1n the Finance and Audit and Compliance
Committees.

Director Carvalho stated that operations and direction of the current foundation should be discussed in the
Finance Committee. He added that some groups on campus had their own foundations; these should be
reviewed for audit purposes and corporate compliance.

Director Zopp stated that the Board should ask the Of?ce of the State?s Attorney to look at the legal
documentation to ensure that the Board understands the legal obligations involved.

Director Butler asked whether the Board could receive information on all foundations that exist.

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008

Page 5

Chairman Batts stated that the Finance Committee should address the policy going forward; the Audit and
Compliance Committee Should look at the existing fOundations A joint. committee meeting should take
place in the ?iture on the overall subject.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Finance Committee Meeting of 8-4-08*
note: Contracts and Procurement Items were approved, as amended, by the
Finance Committee at this meeting.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to approve the Report of the Finance
Committee for the meeting of August 4, 2008. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Human ReSources Committee Meeting of 8-4-08*
note: Staff Reclassi?cations were approved by the Human Resources
Committee at this meeting. 

Director Zopp, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to approve the Report of the Human Resources
Committee for the meeting of August 4,2008.

Mr. Small stated that the list of staff reclassi?cations distributed at the meeting and made a part of the
report contained some position identi?cation numbers that have changed. A ?nal list will be distributed
which re?ects these changes, however the bottom line number and list of individuals will not change.

On the motion to approve, a" voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY. 

 

OLD BUSINESS

Review and discussion of Director Greenspan?s July 23, 2008 memorandum
(Attachment regarding the initiation of a Strategic Planning Process

Director Greenspan explained an overview of how he envisioned the process. He indicated that he will
meet with Mr. Small and his policy of?cer, Randall Mark, to gather data and de?ne the process. He and 
Director Golden will obtain and present the information to the Board. The assessment of the internal and 
external environment will be presented to the Board for their comment and dissection. A discussion by 
the Board of the mission and goals of the System is also necessary. He included suggestions detailing
which committees might be involved in which phases

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008
Page 6

OLD BUSINESS tContinued)

Director Ansell inquired as to what resources are available to dedicate for this purpose.

Director Greenspan indicated that some entities, including the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council,
the Illinois Department of Public Health, and others, have offered assistance with data and data
interpretation training.

Director Golden added that Dr. Terry Mason has already convened a group of several hospitals and
community clinics to look at the safety net. She believed that the Board could work with them as well.

Director Mu?oz stated that private sector involvement should also be sought to support these efforts.
Director Garvalho added that patients? thoughts and needs should be included in the process.

Director Zopp stated that she believed there should be a public forum or hearing at some point; this would
be an opportunity to get input into the process. 

Chairman Batts agreed, adding that this would not occur until the plan is fully formulated.

 

Proposed 2008 Meeting Dates
Board of Directors of the Health and Hospitals System
Friday, August 22, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.
Friday, September 5, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.
Friday, September 19, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.
Friday, October 3, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.
Thursday, October 16, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.
Thursday, October 30, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.
Thursday, November. 13, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.
Friday, December 5, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.
Thursday, December 18, 2008 at 7:30 A.M.

(Meetings for Calendar Year 2009 to begin in the week of January 5, 2009.)
Director Ansell, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to approve and adopt the Proposed 2008
Meeting Dates for the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System. 7

Director dep indicated that there were a few meetings that she would be unable to attend in person,
however, she would be able to participate via teleconference.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008
Page 7

OLD BUSINES (Continued)

Chairman Batts stated that on the rare occasion, this would be acceptable. It was noted that Directors
needed to be physically present in order to reach a quorum.

On the motion to approve and adopt, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 



Proposed Amendments to System Board Rules,
to amend Rule and Rule 

Chairman Warren L. Batts, submitting the following Proposed Amendments to the Rules
of Organization and Procedure of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System:

Rule 4. Organization.
(0) Membership and o?icers of standing committees and subcommittees.

I (2) The Chair shall be an ex?of?cio member, voting rights, of each standing
committee to which the Chair is not an appointed member. The Chair shall not be

considered in determining the presence of a quorum for a committee meeting.

Special committees and subcommittees.

(2) The Chair shall. be an ex?of?cio member, witho_ut voting rights, of each special

committee. The Chair shall not be considered 111 determining the presence of a Quorum
for a special committee meeting.

Chairman Batts, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to approve the Proposed Amendments to
Rule and Rule .

The Board proceeded to discuss the Proposed Amendment to Rule During this discussion,
Chairman Batts stated that he wished to continue as Chairman of the ad hoc Search Committee. It was
then determined that until the language 1s further re?ned, this Rule should remain as it is.

Director'Zopp, seconded by Director Mu?oz, moved to amend the Proposed Amendment to Rule
to state that the Chair shall be an ex-officio member, with voting rights, of each special 
committee. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

- REPORT OF THE 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008
Page 8

NEW BUSINESS (Continued)

On' the motion to approve the Proposed Amendments to Rule and Rule as amended,
a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED. .

Chairman Batts voted Present.

 

PROPOSED REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO AMEND AN EXISTING
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE AGREEMENT WI 1 MEDAS SETS NET
REVENUE SYSTEMS. LLC. ALPHARETTA, GEORGIA.

 

Submitted by David R. Small
Chief Operating Of?cer, Bureau of Health Services

On March 18, 2008, the Cook County Board of Commissioners (?County Boar 
authorized the Cook County Purchasing Agent to negotiate and enter into a professional
service agreement with -MedAsSets Net Revenue Systems, LLC, (?MedAssets?),
Alpharetta, Georgia to provide revenue cycle services to the Cook County Bureau of the
Health Services (?Bureau?), now the Cook County Health and Hospitals System. On
May 20,2008 the County Board authorized the execution of the professional service
agreement with MedAssets.

Pursuant to the County Board authorized contract, MedAssets was engaged to provide
revenue cycle services to the Bureau of Health. MedAssets? engagement includes an
assessment and analysis of the Bureau?s' revenue cycle process for inpatient and
outpatient services including scheduling, pre-registration, patient access, charging,
coding, utilization management, collections, accounts receivable management and
remittance processing; MedAssets is to provide recommendations to reengineer the
process to maximize revenues; conduct training for Bureau personnel; assist Bureau
management in the implementation of the reengineered and current revenue processes
and identify changes to Bureau processes in order to increase ef?ciency.

The County Board authorized contract provided that MedAssets would receive a
contractor fee percentage of 25% of the accrued bene?t bene?t less 
baseline) up to Fifty Million and a 33% contractor fee percentage of the
accrued bene?t above Fifty Million 

On June 18, 2008, at the ?rst meeting of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(?System?) I engaged the System Board to authorize hiring for key leadership positions
for the System. I further requested and received authority from the System Board to
engage MedAssets to provide an Interim Chief Financial Of?cer for the Bureau of 

Health/System while recruiting for a full time Bureau Chief Financial Of?cer.? The
Interim Chief Financial Of?cer engaged by MedAssets and approved by the Bureau is
Mr. Pitt Calkin.

REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008 
Page 9

NEW BUSINESS (Continued)

- Authorization is now hereby requested to amend MedAssets? contract to address
- MedAssets? engagement of Mr. Pitt Calkin and authorize the Bureau of Health to provide
the compensation to MedAssets for Mr. Calkin?s services at a total rate not to
exceed $42,000.00 per month; twenty days per month for a total time expense not to
exceed $36,000.00 and travel expenses per month not to exceed $6,000.00. The term
period associated with this amendment is for a six month time period to begin July 20,
2008 and end February 19, 2009. Should the term or compensation rates associated with
the amendment need extension or revision, further authorization at that time will be
requested.

Estimated Fiscal Impact for Amendment No.1: rate not to exceed $42, 000. 00
per month for an estimated ?scal impact of $252, 000. 00.

Amendment No. 1 Time Period: July 20, 2008 through February 19, 2009 (890-260
Account) Requisition No. 88900376. .

Director Zopp, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to approve the proposed request for
authorization to amend the existing professional service agreement.

Director O?Donnell noted that the amount stated was fairly steep.

Mr. Small stated that in attempting to look at interim solutions, he contacted many of the national ?rms
who quoted prices that were twice or three times this amount. -

Director Golden requested that the Board receive copies of the full MedAssets contract, including this
amendment.

Mr. Small replied af?nnatively.

Director Zopp stated that this item underscores the System?s need for a permanent Chief Financial
Of?cer. She asked whether there is currently a search underway for this permanent position.

Chairman Batts stated that there'is currently a search for a permanent Chief Financial Of?cer for Stroger
Hospital, but not for the System.

Mr. Small reminded the Board that the Search had not been. started for a System Chief Financial Of?cer,
partially due to the fact that the Board had wanted to wait until a permanent Chief Executive Of?cer was
in place.

On the motion to approve, a voice vote was taken and THE MOTION CARRIED.

Director Butler voted 'No.

 

REPORT OF THE

BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 7, 2008

Page 10

NEW BUSINESS (Continued!

RECRUITMENT OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER INTERIM AND PERMANENT

RECRUITMENT OF INTERIM CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER
FOR THE BUREAU OF HEALTH SERVICES

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to recess the regular session and convene
into clOSed session, pursuant to an exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 
et seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The recruitment, credentialing,
discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or
other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.? THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY. -

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Zopp, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Munoz, moved to appoint David R. Small as Interim Chief
Executive Of?cer, and to have Chairman Batts and Human Resources Committee Chairman Zopp
review and present to the Board the performance guidelines and salary. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Chairman Batts asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.

Secretary DeLeon replied that there were none.

I

 

ADJOURNMENT

Director Munoz, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

WW A 

Warren L. Batts, Chairman

Attest:

   

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

Date:

To:

From:

Attachment #1 . .?glk 

MEMORANDUM

July 23, 2008

Warren L. Batts,.Chairman
All Directors 
Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board

Director Benn Greenspan
Cook County Health and HQSpitals System Board

in Response to' the request of the Chairman, I am providing the following
suggestions to assist us in initiating a Strategic Planning Process.



Strategic Planning will be Carried out as a Committee of the whole

involving all Directors.

2.

The Chairs of each Board Committee, Director Benn Greenspan, and
Director Quin Golden will constitute themselves as a Board Planning -
Steering Committee to expedite the progress of the planning process.
will convene the first meeting of the Steering Committee before the
August Board meeting.
Committee Chairs Will contribute the suggested strategic? ?issues?
developed through discussion in their committees.
The Planning process and the work of the Steering Committee will be
initially staffed by Chief Operating Officer David Small (or'his
designees); Director-of Policy Analysis Randy Mark; and lnterimChiei
Financial "Officer Pitt Calkin (or his designees). Such other staff as
deemed appropriate Will participate in the preparatory work for Strategic
Planning.-
The Board Strategic Planning process will follow well established
models incorporating:
a. "Reviewing material related to the development of the Mission of

b. Gathering historic statistical and financial performance data
aboUt and its components.-
c. Gathering background data about existing and anticipated-
regulatory mandates, challenges, and actions. 
d. Gathering data necessary to perform internal and external. -
environmental assessments. 
e. Gathering broad input from stakeholders and consensus on the
critical issues identified In those assessments.
- f. Developing overarching Goals and within those Goals,
measurable Objectives.

 Att:

10.

g. Reviewing and adopting strategies and tactics proposed by
management and clinical leadership staff for achieving those Goals -
and Objectives.

h. Reviewing and adopting a business plan that attaches statistical

- projections of the expected changes In performance resulting from
those strategies and tactics

i. Reviewing and adopting a clinical performance plan that
attaches projections of- the expected quality improvements from
those strategies and tactics.

j. Reviewing and adopting a financial plan that attaches financial
projections of the cost and expected revenues from those
strategies and tactics.

In order to facilitate the efficient use of the time of the ?Committee of

the whole?, the Steering Committee should oversee the progress of

steps 6.a through 6.d, and the preparation of a Strategic Planning

Assessment to be presented by the staff to the Board.

These tasks will require extensive staff effort, and it is not clear that the

necessaryinformation is readily accessible. Data sources for the

external assessment may be easier to develop than sources for an

internal assessment.

The remaining steps should be run by the ?Committee of the whole?,

7 with as much input as we can incorporate from stakeholders.

if desired, be happy to facilitate?any of the processes.

Planning process diagrams

A Typical Strategic Planning ProCess

 

Mission,
Vision

Communication

 

 Strategic PlanningProcess Time-Table

 

Activities

Strategic Planning Process

Business Plan and Budget

 

Assessment

1 - Review market
assessment -
- Develop future market
scenarios
- Define guiding principles
for strategic future
. Outline strategic options

 

November - December 2003 January March 2004

Environmental

Mission: Statement

Financialf'lmperat

.

Review Mission

Assess current performance
of businesses/services
lines

Re-tune 5 year financial
?imperative"

Evaluate potential strategic

partnerships 

:1 - at - ., a. -.-..- x. .. a ., ., .
':Pr :u-yq. :52; . ya:- :rup?g'?e . 

  

Con?dential

I .
March June 2004

Long Range Plan,
Business Planl
Budget

Long range objectives

formalized

Financial Imperative I.
Long Range Planning
Guidelines drive business

budget process

Revenue growth balanced
against cash flow
constraints

Additional next steps 
such as strategic 
partnership

What does a Strategic Planning Process Achieve?

 

 

     

   

External Vision Internal
Environment and Environment 3
Goals
What the . What the What the
organization organization erganization
sheu/d A wantsintegration of what the

organization should do,
wants to do, and-can do
to pravide a picture of

the situation

Basis for
strategy
farmulation

 
 
 
 

 

 

 



Intelligence

- Consensus -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ATypical Strategic Planning Model

  

 

 

 

Internal
ASseSSment

External
Assessment

    

 

 

 

 

39!;



19V

 

Strategic Planning Process Time-Table

  

 

Strategic Planning Process

Business Plan and Budget

Sept - Nov 2008 Nov 08 - Jan 2009 Feb April 2009

     

Environmental - - Mi-?ssiOn - .Long?angesPlan,
Assessment Financial imperative Business Plan, A 
Environment V, . Budget

A Review Internal Operating Review 0 Long range objectives
status . Assess current performance formalized

historic Of 0 Financial Imperative 
performance businesses/services lines Long Range planning

0 Review market - Re-tune 5 year financial Guidelines drive business
assessment ?imperative? budget process

- Develop future market - Evaluate potential strategic 0 Revenue growth balanced
scenarios partnerships against cash flow

- Define guiding principles constraints
for strategic future - Additional next steps 

- Outline strategic options such as strategic
partnership

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

