Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, October
25, 2013 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chairman Ramirez called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Ada Mary Gugenheim; Wayne
M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH; Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese,
EdD (7)

Absent:

Chairman David Carvalho and Directors Lewis M. Collens; M. Hill Hammock; and Reverend
Calvin S. Morris, PhD (4)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
John Cooke - Cook County Office of Capital
Planning and Policy
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel
Anthony Rajkumar – System Chief Business
Officer
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer

II.

Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Warren Ribley – Illinois Medical District
Commission
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical
Integration

Public Speakers
Acting Chairman Ramirez asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.
2.

III.

Dr. Alisa Seo-Lee Representative, Doctors Council SEIU (written testimony included – Attachment #1)
George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, September 27, 2013
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Board of Directors Meeting of September 27, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, October 9, 2013
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of October 9, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 1 of 41

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 25, 2013
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, October 9, 2013
 Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
Director Butler, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of October 9, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, October 11, 2013
 Contracts and Procurement Items (detail was provided as attachment to Board Agenda)
 Proposed Seventh Amendment to the Interagency Agreement between the Illinois Department of Healthcare
and Family Services and the Cook County Board of Commissioners
 Request for authorization to enter into and execute Lease Schedules, pursuant to the Replacement Master
Lease Agreement with Banc of America Leasing and Capital Corp., LLC, for the leasing of the items set
forth in the memorandum dated October 3, 2013
 Proposed Resolutions authorizing signatory updates for five (5) John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook
County bank accounts
Director Butler, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of October 11, 2013.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

E. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, October 11, 2013
Director Velasquez, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Human Resources Committee Meeting of October 11, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

Action Items
A. Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between the County of Cook, on behalf of the Office of
Capital Planning and Policy (OCPP) and the Cook County Health and Hospitals System (CCHHS),
and the Illinois Medical District Commission (IMDC), to allow the IMDC, OCPP and CCHHS to
collaborate on redevelopment opportunities within the Illinois Medical District, to better account for
existing and future needs of the County and CCHHS as well as the IMDC, including but not limited to
the best and highest uses for the County, CCHHS and IMDC properties within the Illinois Medical
District (Attachment #2)
Deferred on September 27, 2013
Anthony Rajkumar, System Chief Business Officer, presented the item for the Board’s consideration, and
provided an overview of the information. He introduced John Cooke, Director of the Cook County Office of
Capital Planning and Policy, and Warren Ribley, Executive Director of the Illinois Medical District
Commission (IMDC), who provided additional information relating to their respective roles in the
relationship that is proposed to be established with the Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA).
Page 2 of 41

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 25, 2013
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
A.

Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (continued)
Mr. Cooke stated that this initiative is a big first step in the redevelopment of the Stroger Campus, which has
languished for a while; this is also coming at a time when the IMDC has embarked upon a redevelopment of
a parcel that is adjacent to the County’s property. He believed that this is a prime opportunity to work
collaboratively; this will provide the momentum to bring the best uses for the County’s land, as well as
provide an opportunity for the County and CCHHS to move forward with its needs of new clinic space and
new administrative office space.
Mr. Ribley stated that the IMDC has a new Board of seven members that were appointed by their respective
leaders in March 2012; he joined them at that time, and one of their first objectives was really to reengage
with its major partners - primarily the four major medical centers that comprise the Illinois Medical District
(IMD). He stated that they have worked closely with Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, and his staff
on a number of initiatives. He referenced the major IMDC redevelopment effort just to the west of the
Stroger Campus; this is a $162 million proposed mixed-use development that includes a hotel, convention
space, young professional housing, life science space, and medical office buildings, all surrounding a central
plaza that will have retail space and restaurants. The IMDC believes that this will become the life center and
the establishment of a community within the IMDC to supplement the wonderful health care opportunities
that are present there. As the IMDC learned about the redevelopment goals for the Stroger campus, it really
highlighted the need to work together collaboratively; that is exactly what this IGA does – it establishes a
broad framework to work together.
Director Velasquez inquired regarding plans to take projects to the community and present them; she also
asked about opportunities for input. Mr. Cooke responded that as the Stroger Campus is redeveloped, all
development activity will be coming back before the System Board; OCPP will be working in conjunction
directly with Dr. Raju and Mr. Rajkumar to create guidelines. He added that the process involves public
input.With regard to the IMDC redevelopment project, Mr. Ribley stated that they are in the very early
stages of their development; they have selected a developer, and have just begun the process of engaging
with local governmental leaders. This will be an open process, and they will have some community forums
to let the community know about the development.
In response to Director Muñoz’ question regarding the developer for the IMDC project, Mr. Ribley stated
that Higgins Development Partners is the master developer; they will be selecting sub-development partners
for each of the specialty areas (hotel, housing, retail). Director Muñoz inquired whether these groups will
outreach to the minority community in the area so they can be involved in the project; he noted that he would
like to see some kind of commitment from the IMDC moving forward to have its developer make that kind
of forum available. He added that it would be appreciated if Mr. Ribley could come back at some point and
give the System Board an update or additional information on the IMDC’s efforts in that area.
Mr. Ribley responded that IMDC staff are currently in the process of drafting the development agreement,
which has strong Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) requirements; also included is
a requirement for a project labor agreement. He indicated that he would be happy to return at a later time to
keep the System Board up to date and give them the opportunity to provide input into the development
process. He added that this development will not be built with a phased-in approach - the structure that is
being proposed for the development with the sub-development partners will allow the project to all rise at
one time.

Page 3 of 41

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 25, 2013
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
A.

Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement (continued)
In response to Director Lerner’s inquiry regarding the motion for this item, Elizabeth Reidy stated that,
inasmuch as the County is the party to the contract, the motion would be for the System Board to approve
acknowledgement of the agreement and recommend approval of the agreement by the Cook County Board of
Commissioners. Mr. Cooke stated that, historically, OCPP would be the representative, as the County would
be the owner of the properties, and OCPP manages the capital infrastructure of the buildings. This
agreement will make the relationship more collaborative, so when OCPP and CCHHS work in conjunction
with the IMDC, and as the IMDC works on their site, it is a more comprehensive approach.
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved to approve acknowledgement of the
proposed Intergovernmental Agreement, and to recommend approval of the proposed
Intergovernmental Agreement by the Cook County Board of Commissioners. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Contracts and Procurement Items
There were no Contracts and Procurement Items presented directly for the Board’s consideration.

C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
Acting Chairman Ramirez indicated that he did not have a report to present at this time.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #3)
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: FY2014 Budget; CountyCare / 1115 Waiver Demonstration
Project; Flu Shots; Pharmacy Week; and Recognition of Employees.
Dr. Raju stated that the administration is in the process of negotiating with the State to convert CountyCare to a
Managed Care Community Network (MCCN). An MCCN is a capitated risk-based contract that would allow the
System to keep the enrolled CountyCare patients within CountyCare; it also provides CountyCare with a status
when the waiver period is over. In addition to the MCCN activities, Dr. Raju stated that the administration is going
to need to start negotiating with the State to obtain a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) license. There is a
group of people who fall just outside of the threshold for Medicaid eligibility and who have to purchase a plan in
the health exchange – many within this group are already receiving services at the System and are included in the
self-pay population; the administration’s goal is to put a plan in the health exchange as a low-premium affordable
plan, so these people can get health insurance and stay within the System. He stated that the System has a
responsibility as a public system to offer its communities an affordable health care plan - whether it is for a small
business person or for County employees or retirees, the System should be able to offer a plan that is affordable,
with low co-pays and low deductibles. With regard to timelines, Dr. Raju stated that in order to enter the exchange
on October 1st, the System will need to have a full-fledged, approved HMO plan by April 1st; staff will be working
very hard over the next three months trying to get that done.
Page 4 of 41

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 25, 2013
Page 5

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
Dr. Raju stated that, as the System is embarking on this huge undertaking of managing a large number of patients
over a period of time, the administration will be issuing a Request for Proposals (RFP) to bring outside help in for
some of the skills that the System does not have at the present time, such as those relating to utilization, risk
management, case management, membership and network development, and other HMO functions. He added that,
year-by-year, the administration will bring those functions in-house under the Managed Care Department, as
System staff develops the skills and the requisite level of knowledge and expertise.
Dr. Raju stated that the Affordable Care Act (ACA) will only be insurance expansion, unless the following three
things happen: additional access points need to be created; the health care delivery system has to change, to move
away from individual doctor-patient relationships to a team-based concept with a medical home; and payment
reform must take place, to transform the system from being based on very lucrative and profitable inpatient-based
services into a not-as-profitable outpatient service-based system.
Dr. Raju’s idea to address the issue of a fragmented health care administration system is that Cook County/CCHHS
can be a 4-P program (payer, plan, provider, population manager). Cook County is a payer - it pays a lot of money
for health care for its employees and retirees; it also pays the non-federal share of Medicaid for its patients. Cook
County has a plan, currently called CountyCare. Cook County is a provider, and is in charge of public health, so it
can also be a population manager. He plans to pitch his idea to the government as a potential pilot project; the
System would be given a number of patients, and would have the responsibilities of the functions of payer, plan,
provider and population manager. He added that this has never been done anywhere in the country - instead of
fragmenting health care administration four different ways, CCHHS is trying to figure out how to identify and
manage the patients with one system that takes care of all four functions.
A. Report from Chief of Clinical Integration (Attachment #4)
Dr. John Jay Shannon, Chief of Clinical Integration, provided an overview of his roles and responsibilities. The
Board reviewed and discussed the information.
Dr. Shannon noted that staff will be increasingly using the presentations made at the Quality and Patient Safety
Committee Meetings as an opportunity for the Board and public to better understand health care delivery. He
stated that there will be a series of presentations by the different departments that not only talk about the
ongoing quality and safety initiatives, but also to help the Board and public understand the actual delivery of
care that is done by those different services.
During the discussion of the information on the number of encounters that Stroger Hospital’s Emergency
Department (ED) experiences (120,000 per year,) Acting Chairman Ramirez asked whether any other hospital’s
ED encounters are comparable. Dr. Shannon responded that perhaps the Advocate System (containing six or
seven hospitals) as a whole is comparable, but no single hospital compares to Stroger Hospital– Stroger
Hospital has the busiest ED by a long shot.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, October 9, 2013
The Board did not recess the regular session and convene in closed session.

Page 5 of 41

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, October 25, 2013
Page 6

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Acting Chairman Ramirez declared the MEETING
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Jorge Ramirez, Acting Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 6 of 41

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 25, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 7 of 41

 Humor! nion
Pulit?itiw~ \Hlt?t;

 

Doctors Council SEIU

Doctor Engagement 0n
PCMH in the ACHN

Regional office: 300 South Ashland Avenue. 4 FL. Suite 4-00. Chicago. 1L 60607 - Phone {312) 588-7612 - Fax {312) 337-7768
National of?ce: 50 Broadway. I ith Floor. Suite 1 101. New York NY 10004 0 Phone (212} 532-7690 - Fax {2121 
Barry Liebowitz. MD. President - email: info?doctorscouncil.com 

Affiliated with the Service Employees Intemati0nal Union (SEIU)

?mm

Page 8 of 41



.. -

Doctors Council SEIU Report:
Doctor Engagement On
PCMH in the ACHN

October 25, 2013

SUMMARY

Doctors Council SEIU wanted to know what our members in the Ambulatory Community Health
Network (ACHN) thought about the transition to a Patient-Centered Medical Home model
(PCM H).

Over several weeks, Doctors Council SEIU collected surveys from and had face-to-face
conversations with our members at every facility in the ACHN.

Doctors Council SEIU members told us unanimously that they believe a PCMH is an ideal way to
deliver quality health care to their patients. Further, our members are eager to do the work

necessary to make the PCMH a success within the ACHN.

Doctors Council SEIU members identified three signi?cant obstacles to making the PCMH a
success within the ACHN: scheduling procedures; staf?ng levels; and computer systems.

Doctors Council SEIU members want to work collaboratively with their ACHN colleagues and the
administration to find solutions to these and any other obstacles to delivering quality
health care.

INTRODUCTION

January 2014 will mark the beginning of a new era in health care. The Affordable Care Act

(ACA), through both its Medicaid Expansion and Health Insurance Exchange, will allow tens of thousands
of Cook County community members to access affordable health care for the very first time. The
members of Doctors Council SEIU the attending physicians, and dentists of the Cook
County Health and Hospital System applaud the coming changes in health care and look
forward to taking advantage of the opportunities as well as meeting the challenges they present.

One opportunity the ACA presents is ?nancial. As Dr. Raju, CEO, recently explained to the Cook

County Finance Committee, CountyCare the early entry into expanded Medicaid - will double
Medicaid revenues. This good news is in large part due to the fact that Dr. Raju and his team ably met
the goal of gathering 115,000 CountyCare applications by the end of this year. Doctors Council SEIU, an
early supporter of CountyCare, is encouraged by such news and congratulates the administration
on the initial success of CountyCare.

1

Page 9 of 41

This particular opportunity comes with a very difficult challenge, of course. First, and as Dr.
Raju also noted in his presentation to the County Finance Committee, the increase in Medicaid revenues
necessarily brings with it an increase in expenses. Put simply, the more people we treat, the more it will
cost. Second, come January 1, 2014, our patients will be able to choose where to seek treatment. If
they choose treatment outside the not only will we not be able to take full advantage of the
?nancial opportunities of the ACA but we will fail in our mission to provide quality healthcare with
dignity and respect to any and all members of the Cook County community.

Doctors Council SEIU agrees with Dr. Raju and his team and the Board of Directors that
the way to meet this challenge is to make the our patients? first choice rather than their last
resort. We agree further that, as Dr. Raju told the County Finance Committee, we need to do things
?better, smarter, and more efficiently,? largely in order to ?improve the patient experience.?

it is in this area, among others, where we know we can help. Our members have deep
experience in front-line operations and understand how to improve them. Doctors Council SEIU set out
to learn about our members? concerns and their ideas on how to address them as part of a joint project
with SEIU Local 73 and the Cornell University Healthcare Transformation Project. We surveyed or spoke
with members in all of the ACHN clinics about their experience with the PCMH. Today, we share the
results of those surveys and discussion in the hopes of sparking a collaborative approach to making the
the provider of choice in Cook County.

 

Positive Aspects of the PCMH model in the ACHN

Doctors believe that the PCMH makes it possible to give more comprehensive and therefore better
quality health care.

Members believe that when properly staffed, the PCMH allows them to concentrate on giving
medical care - on "being doctors" - which allows them to give more time and attention to patients.

 

 

 

ABSTRACT

Doctors Council surveyed its members in the ACHN about the transition to a PCMH model.
We collected surveys and had numerous face-to-face discussions with members at membership
meetings at every ACHN site. After a thorough quantitative and qualitative analysis of the data, Doctors
Council SEIU concludes that although its members believe in the potential of the PCMH model, they find
several obstacles stand in the way of realizing that potential. Our members identify the top three
obstacles as current scheduling procedures, staffing levels, and computer systems. Each obstacle
undermines doctors' ability to deliver quality health care while impacting patient satisfaction.

FINDINGS

Our members in the ACHN fully support the PCMH model. Doctors believe that conceptually,
the PCMH should deliver quality healthcare and improve patient satisfaction. Doctors particularly like
the potential for delivering consistent, comprehensive care to their patients. Patients like this as well.
Our members report that patients also like the ability to talk over the phone with a nurse or medical
assistant about their health conditions and treatment plans.

2

Page 10 of41

 

 

Doctors Council members rated general patient satisfaction with the PCMH on a scale of 1-5,
with 1 Do Not Like At All and 5 like A Lot. Below is the average score:

How do you think patients like receiving services at your 

 

 

 

Tampering their excitement over the potential of the PCMH model are the current scheduling
procedures, staf?ng levels, and computer systems in the ACHN. Our members believe there is much
room for improvement in scheduling procedures. As it stands, a doctor is faced every day with a
completely full schedule that includes slots that are double- or triple-booked; 30-minute new-patient
appointments squeezed into 15-minute follow-up appointment slots; and appointments scheduled so
late in the day that all other staff members including security staff? have left the building by the time
the appointment is over, leaving the doctor and patient alone in the clinic after hours. These scheduling
procedures over burden the staff, incentivize rushed care, cause slow cycle times, increase patient wait
times, and lower patient satisfaction.

The problems caused by scheduling procedures are compounded by the problems of short
staf?ng, including of doctors. In a PCMH, each provider should have a dedicated support staff consisting
of a nurse, a medical assistant, and a clerk. This is not the case in many clinics, where instead, providers
share support staff. Such staffing means that doctors have to do many of the tasks intended for their
team members, including processing referrals and prescription refills and scheduling follow-up
appointments. This takes the doctor's attention and time away from direct patient care, again backing
up the clinic, contributing to cycle and wait times, and lowering patient satisfaction. This also
decreases the number of patients a doctor can care for.

Slow computers exacerbate the problem even further. In a PCMH, the doctor uses a computer
during an appointment, recording notes and writing orders directly into the system while working with a
patient. Members in many clinics report, however, that their computers slow down signi?cantly nearly
every day in the late morning and afternoon. This slows downs the appointment, which - again 
lengthens cycle and wait time and lowers patient satisfaction.

 

 

Aspects of the PCMH that need to be improved:

What doctors believe: What doctors believe patients want:
0 Scheduling procedures
0 Over-scheduling 0 More time with doctors
0 Late scheduling
0 Short appointment times 0 Shorter wait times
0 Staffing Levels 0 For appointments
0 Not enough doctors and In the clinics
support staff 0 For Specialty referrals appointments
0 Extra duties take doctors'
attention away from direct 0 More streamlined registration procedures

patient care
0 Computer Systems
0 Too slow
0 Interfaces not user-friendly

 

3
Page 11 of41

 

CONCLUSION

Our members the doctors want the PCMH in the ACHN to be a success. They want the
to be the provider of choice. They do not, however, believe that they can make that happen
without more sensible scheduling procedures, better staf?ng levels, and up?to-date computer systems.
These findings are well in?line with the conclusions reached and reported by the administration.
We respectfully request a meaningful collaborative approach to have the transformation to a PCMH be a
success and to find solutions on shared concerns.

We agree with Dr. Raju that we need to invest in patient experience and build business
intelligence. We believe that there should also be an investment in worker engagement and input to
generate more empowered clinicians.

While doctors on average ranked the quality of training to
prepare to work in a PCMH as 2.8 based on a scale of 1-5 (1 not at all
prepared and 5 extremely well), the signi?cant majority said they
would be willing to do at least one or more of the following:

. take part in more education training
- educate the community about the ACA and our work surrounding it
- take on a leadership role in our efforts to improve the 

Doctors Council SEIU believes that the patients and communities we serve deserve timely access
to quality and safe patient care services. With all the changes occurring in health care, including
transitioning to .a PCMH, we all need to work together. A team approach is needed not just between
clinical staff but also between administration/management and our doctors' union.

Doctors Council SEIU has been a strong advocate for the such as on the 1115 Waiver.
Doctors Council SEIU is also a strong advocate for our patients. We want to work with the to
make our system the best it can be to receive patient care at and to work in. Administration and
Doctors Council SEIU should work together to jointly educate and empower clinicians and improve
patient care.

We are Stronger Together.

Page 12 of41

Doctors Council SEIU members ranked the improvements made in their clinics by the
PCMH on a scale of 1-5, with 1 Not At All and 5 Completely. Below is the average
score based on all collected surveys:

How well has PCMH improved your ability to:

See patients in a timely
manner shorter
wait times).

2.9

Work positively and
productively as a team
with your colleagues.
3.6

  
   

Answer all patient
questions and provide
needed help to patients.

Schedule follow-up 2 9

appointment with
patient.
3.2

Have a team of
providers see the same
patients on a consistent,
long-term basis.

3.3

Provide critical
information and care to
patients with chronic
conditions.

3.3

Page 13 of41

DOCTORS
COUNCIL


&i
SEIU

Stronger Together

 

Doctors Council SEIU, Our Patients and the 
Stronger Together

Team Approach to Benefit Patient Care

Regional office: 300 Souih Ashland Avenue. 4 FL. Suite 400. Chicago. IL 60607 - Phone (312) 588?761 2 - Fax (312} 337-7768
National office: 50 Broadway. 1 11h Floor. Suite 1 101. New York. NY 10004 . Phone {212) 532-7690 - Fax (212?: 4:31?4:37
Barry Liebom?tz. MD. President - email: info@doctorscouncii.com 

Affiliated with the Service Employees iniemational Union 



Page 14 of41

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 25, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 15 of 41

  
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
BOARD BRIEFING MEMORANDUM 
To: 
 

 
 

From:   
 
 
 
 

Chair David Carvalho and Members 
Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors 
Joy Wykowski 
Director of Intergovernmental Affairs 
Cook County Health and Hospitals System 

Subject: 

October 25, 2013 Board Meeting 
Agenda Item IV – Proposed Intergovernmental Agreement between the County of Cook, 
on  behalf  of  the  Office  of  Capital  Planning  and  Policy  (OCPP),  the  Cook  County  Health 
and Hospitals System (CCHHS), and the Illinois Medical District Commission (IMDC) 
 
RECOMMENDATION OF MANAGEMENT 
• Approve the Intergovernmental Agreement.  Until this agreement was proposed, Cook County OCPP 
represented  CCHHS  interests  at  the  IMDC,  with  CCHHS  having  an  informal  advisory  role.   This 
agreement,  brought  to  the  CCHHS  Board  at  the  recommendation  of  Cook  County  OCPP,  elevates  the 
role of CCHHS within the IMDC allowing for better representation and integration of the CCHHS agenda 
within this planning body.  
  
PURPOSE OF REQUEST 
•  The  purpose  of  the  intergovernmental  agreement  is  to  allow  for  the  exploration  of  redevelopment 
opportunities, and for CCHHS, OCPP and IMDC to determine strategies to enhance the services provided 
to the medical district community, develop a vibrant mixed‐use campus for CCHHS and the surrounding 
IMDC community, and benefit the overall medical district community. 
 
• This agreement sets forth the objectives and respective duties and responsibilities as to this proposed 
collaborative  approach  to  redevelopment  of  various  County/CCHHS  and  IMDC  properties  within  the 
Illinois Medical District. 
 
• CCHHS and OCPP are requesting to establish joint capital planning and development objectives and a 
plan  to  address  redevelopment  needs  for  the  CCHHS  Administrative  Campus,  Stroger  Hospital  and 
Fantus Clinic. 
 
• The County, OCPP and CCHHS want to collaborate with the IMDC to establish a creative framework to 
envision a broader, vibrant mixed‐use campus for CCHHS and the IMDC. 
 
• This collaborative approach will allow the County and IMDC to attract broader investment and realize 
physical  development  on  a  more  aggressive  pace,  while  better  satisfying  the  respective  mission  and 
objective of the County, CCHHS and IMDC. 
 
 
1 

 

Intergovernmental Agreement with the Illinois Medical District Commission Briefing Memo 
Page 16 of 41

 BACKGROUND 
OCPP Role 
•  The  Office  of  Capital  Planning  &  Policy  (OCPP)  is  responsible  for  implementing  and  monitoring  the 
County’s  Capital  Program  and  reviewing  policy  as  it  pertains  to  capital  construction  throughout  Cook 
County.  (Steps for implementation of a capital project is attached.) 
 
•  The  Office  of  Capital  Planning  and  Policy,  under  the  County  Bureau  of  Economic  Development, 
develops and provides cost‐effective day to day management of the Capital Improvement Program (CIP). 
 
•  The  CIP  sets  forth  the  plan  for  the  design,  construction  and  renovation  of  buildings  and  building 
systems  which  emphasize  safety  and  code  compliance  and  improvements  to  security  and  fire  and  life 
safety systems.   
 
•  The  OCPP  serves  as  a  liaison  to  Cook  County  user  agencies,  program  managers  and  contractors  and 
coordinates  capital  issues  affecting  county  departments  and  other  governmental  agencies  as  well  as 
providing economic opportunities for the private sector. 

 
 
IMDC History 
•  The  Illinois  Medical  District  is  the  largest  urban  healthcare,  educational,  research  and  technology 
district in the nation. 
 
• The District had its start in 1870 when Cook County Hospital, Rush Medical College, and the College of 
Physicians  and  Surgeons  were  established  on  the  New  West  Side  following  the  great  Chicago  Fire  of 
1871.  The cornerstone for the Medical Center was the building of Cook County Hospital in 1876. 
 
• In 1917 the 971‐bed County Hospital was completed and the Illinois Public Welfare Director Charles 
Thorne suggested that the area be given a special medical center identity.   
 
• By 1934, a local Medical Square Commission was formed to clear the property north of Cook County 
Hospital for a convalescent park, the first major land use accomplishment by an official governing body. 
 
•  In  1941  the  Medical  District  Act  was  approved  and  the  Medical  Center  Commission  was  formerly 
established. 
 
• In 1995, the District’s name was changed from the Illinois Medical Center to the Illinois Medical District 
to recognize that the “District” now contained various individual “medical centers.” 
 
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT 
• OCPP, CCHHS and IMDC shall work together or through consultants procured by OCPP to establish a 
CCHHS and IMDC focused redevelopment area to consider redevelopment opportunities for IMDC and 
County/CCHHS property and buildings to address the existing and future functional needs of CCHHS and 
IMDC. 
 
2 

 

Intergovernmental Agreement with the Illinois Medical District Commission Briefing Memo 
Page 17 of 41

 • Evaluate the best and highest uses for County, CCHHS and IMDC properties within the Illinois Medical 
District. 
 
•  Collaborate  to  promote  quality  comprehensive  re‐development  opportunities  for  the  County,  OCPP, 
CCHHS and the IMDC with the Illinois Medical District. 
 
• Evaluate development opportunities, lease or ground lease options, land swaps or exchange. 
 
• Work together on a strategic redevelopment approach to address the needs of CCHHS, including but 
not limited to the CCHHS Administrative Campus, Stroger Hospital Campus and Fantus Clinic as well as 
the needs of the IMDC and overall medical district community. 
 
• CCHHS, County and IMDC Boards will be presented for approval any strategic approach to redevelop 
County/CCHHS  property  and/or  buildings  prior  to  moving  forward  with  any  redevelopment 
opportunities. 
 
TERMS OF AGREEMENT 
• This agreement will be in effect for two years from the date of execution.  Either party may terminate 
this agreement with 30 days prior written notice. 
 
• Provide quarterly report to CCHHS, County and IMDC regarding the progress of the parties in moving 
forward with the provisions of this agreement. 
 
_____ 
 
• The County Capital Improvements Committee cancelled a meeting scheduled for October 23rd in order 
to afford the CCHHS Board of Directors the opportunity for the full board to consider the request. 

3 

 

Intergovernmental Agreement with the Illinois Medical District Commission Briefing Memo 
Page 18 of 41

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 25, 2013

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 19 of 41

  

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM

   

 

RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

October 25, 2013

FY2014 BUDGET

This past Tuesday, October 22, 2013 I appeared before the Cook County Board Finance Committee along
with Chairman Carvalho. The purpose of the meeting was to provide Cook County Commissioners with
an overview of the FY2014 Budget and respond to their questions. This past week the CC

Finance Committee also conducted three (3) public hearings on the County?s proposed FY2014 budget.

Next, the Finance Committee will consider amendments to the proposed budget after which the budget
will be approved by the Cook County Board of Commissioners. It is expected the County Budget, which
includes the budget, will be approved prior to the end ofthe fiscal year, November 30, 2013.
The 2014 fiscal year begins December 1, 2013.

FY2014 budget focuses on several key principles as we continue to transform: no service
reductions or layoffs; no reductions in personnel to improve services and frontline staffing; investing in
key areas to improve the patient experience to retain patients post Medicaid expansion; expanding the
CountyCare network to increase access all while reducing our dependency on Cook County funding by
30% from last year.

COUNTYCARE 1115 WAIVER DEMONSTRATION PROJECT UPDATE

One year ago, on October 26, 2012, the Cook County Health Hospitals System received approval for an
1115 Medicaid Waiver Demonstration Project, our early roll out of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). At
that time set an ambitious goal of achieving 115,000 applications by the end of 2013. lam happy
to report that earlier this week, on Tuesday, October 22, 2013 we reached our goal of 115,000
CountyCare applications.

CountyCare is an Illinois Medicaid program approved under the federal government?s 1115 Medicaid
Waiver, which permits to early?enroll individuals who will be eligible for Medicaid in 2014
through the Affordable Care Act.

Page 20 of 41

 

While we have reached our 115,000 goal, applications continue to come in from every corner of the
Cook County. I am proud of the grassroots approach we took in outreach and we will continue those
efforts thru the end of the year when the demonstration project comes to a close.

This is a humbling but enormously rewarding week for us as we provide thousands of people with access
to high quality health care for the first time. What the numbers demonstrate is the tremendous
demand for health care. early implementation of the ACA truly will help transform the system
and improve the health of patients. 

FLU SHOTS

In 2009 implemented an Influenza Vaccination for Personnel Policy (policy 08.01.03). 
personnel are required to be immunized against influenza virus(es) on an annual basis and in instances
of a threatened or actual pandemic of influenza for which vaccine is available. The Flu Shot is mandated
for health care workers, unless a medical contraindication exists.

employees are encouraged to participate in Employee Health Services (EHS) Flu Vaccine Program
by November 30, 2013. EHS Free flu vaccine is available to all staff thru?s. will be provided to at
locations throughout the health system. A schedule of dates, times and locations is posted on the
intranet 

PHARMACY WEEK

Pharmacists and technicians throughout the Cook County Health Hospitals System will use
National Hospital Health?System Pharmacy Week, October 21-27, 2013, to underscore the many new
and vital roles they now play in patient care. The evolution has been especially dramatic in recent years
as pharmacists have moved beyond compounding and dispensing medications to become vital members
of multidisciplinary patient-care teams.

During Pharmacy Week, the campus of John. H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County Health Services
pharmacy department will have a pharmacy booth to answer questions from the public and medical
staff.

Hospital and health-system pharmacists and technicians have been able to take on enhanced patient-
care roles because of a number of factors, including the deployment of highly trained, certified
technicians and new technologies like robotics that dispense medications. As technology evolves?such
as the addition of machine-readable codes to medication labels?patients will have greater
opportunities to have a pharmacist involved in their care.

The CCH HS pharmacies fill nearly 10,000 prescriptions every day.

2 Page

Page 21 of41

 

Pharmacists are experts on the thousands of medications available today, how each one works in the
body, and the ways to use each one safely and effectively. Pharmacists who graduate today receive six
years of education focused on medication therapy, and many pharmacists practicing in hospitals and
health systems also complete post-graduate residency programs. They advise doctors and nurses on the
best medications and monitor every patient?s medication therapy and provide quality checks to detect
and prevent harmful drug interactions, reactions, or mistakes. The Pharmacists, Technicians, and
Support Staff at the Cook County Health Hospitals are dedicated to providing patients with the highest
quality care.

RECOGNITION

In light of the momentous achievement of reaching the 115,000 mark in CountyCare applications, this
month I would like to recognize and thank all whose efforts contributed to achieving this milestone.
This accomplishment was a group effort our CountyCare and Managed Care teams, our front line staff,
our community outreach team, our application assistors, our HHS Board members and our external
partners.

I thank you all for your efforts as we continue the transformation of the Cook County Health Hospitals
System into a quality, integrated patient-centered health network that is financially responsible.

3lPage

Page 22 of 41

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
October 25, 2013

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 23 of 41

 Roles and Responsibilities:
Chief of Clinical Integration
g
John Jay Shannon,
S
MD
Board of Directors
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
1

October 25, 2013
Page 24 of 41

 Education and clinical training
 MD,, Rush Medical College,
g , 1986
 Internal Medicine, University of Texas

Southwestern Affiliated Hospitals 1986-90
(Parkland Memorial Hospital, Dallas VAMC)
 Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine,

University of Michigan,
Michigan 1992
1992-95
95
2
Page 25 of 41

 Professional affiliations and roles
 Cook County Hospital, Division of General

Internal Medicine, 1990-92
 Cook County Hospital, Division of Pulmonary and

Critical Care Medicine, 1995-2007
 Parkland Health and Hospitals System,

EVPMA and Chief Medical Officer, 2007-12
2007 12
3
Page 26 of 41

 Leadership responsibilities
 Clinical operations across system
 Strategic leadership with external partners
 Organization and development of quality and

safety structures and processes
 Academic affairs, including undergraduate and
4

graduate medical education and clinical
investigation
Page 27 of 41

 It’ a team
t
ff t and
d a strong
t
t
It’s
effort,
team
 Chief Operating Officer, Outpatient Services:

Debra Carey, MS (Health Policy and Management)
 Chief Operating Officer, Inpatient Services:

Peter Daniels, MBA, FACHE
 Director of Quality, Patient Safety, Regulatory and

Accreditation: Krishna Das, MD
 Director of Professional Education: John O’Brien, MD
5

 Director of Research: Lynda Brodsky, MPH
Page 28 of 41

 Outpatient Services
 Ambulatory and Community Health Network
 Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center
 In transition:
 Oral Health Services
 Direct clinical care services of Cook County

Department of Public Health
 Behavioral Health
6
Page 29 of 41

 A b l t
dC
it
Ambulatory
and
Community
Health Network
 Highlights
 ~1 million encounters per year
 Patient Centered Medical Home is our care model
 Initiatives
 2014 Quality
y and Performance Improvement
p
p
plan
for system will focus on access, patient safety and
experience
 Joint Commission triennial ”window”
window is open
7
Page 30 of 41

 Ruth M
M. Rothstein CORE Center
A public-private partnership (Rush and CCHHS)
 Development funds originally raised by the CORE

Foundation;
 Building owned by CORE Foundation
 Land owned by County
 Operations
p
by
y CCHHS

 Cares for ~7000 individuals with HIV, always in a

medical
di l home
h
model
d l with
ith extensive
t
i wrap-around
d
services

8

 Transitions from Ryan White funding as patients

attain coverage under ACA
Page 31 of 41

 “Inpatient
Services” includes Emergency
p
g
y
Department, Operating Room, Labor and
Delivery,
y mixed-use diagnostic
g
areas….and a lot more
 John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
 Provident Hospital of Cook County
 Cermak Health Services (not “Hospital”!)
 149 bed infirmary
 Urgent care, pharmacy, digital imaging, point-of-care
laboratory testing
 Juvenile Temporary Detention Center (<18 yo)
9
Page 32 of 41

 J h H
St
J Hospital
H
it l
John
H. Stroger,
Jr.
of Cook County
 Accomplishments
 Busiest Emergency services in the state
 ~120k encounters/year

 Multiple centers of excellence
 Level I Trauma Center
Center, Burn Services
Services, et al

10

 Initiatives
 Patient Experience
 Safety
y
 Capacity Management
 Operating Room safety and efficiency
Page 33 of 41

 Provident Hospital
of Cook County
 Accomplishments
 Project >35K ED/urgent care visits FY 13
 Sengstacke
S
t k clinic
li i off ACHN
ACHN: 6th floor
fl
 >2000 outpatient operations/yr (predominantly
gynecology, general surgery, ophthalmology)
 Endoscopy services

11

 Initiatives
 Expansion and enhancement of diagnostic services:
new MRI, CT, PACS, mammography
 Joint Commission triennial “window” open
Page 34 of 41

 Cermak Health Services
 Cook County Jail is jointly operated
 Health care by Cermak Health Services
 Custody by Cook County Sheriff
 Facilities by Cook County Facilities Management
 Accreditation by National Commission on Correctional

Health Care
 Accomplishments
 Medical screening >300 detainees/day

12

 Initiatives
 Department
D
t
t off JJustice
ti C
Consentt d
decree
 Staffing new Residential Treatment Unit
Page 35 of 41

 Q lit P
ti t S
f t R
l t
Quality,
Patient
Safety,
Regulatory
and Accreditation
 Highlights
 All sites fully accredited
 Initiatives
 2014 Quality and Performance Improvement plan for
system
 Patient Safety-outcomes, Just Culture
 Continual readiness: upcoming Joint Commission
reviews for ACHN
ACHN, Provident Hospital
13
Page 36 of 41

 Clinical investigation
 Highlights
 Minority Based Community Clinical Oncology Program
(MBCCOP)
 HIV prevention: Pre-exposure prophylaxis research
(e.g., Project PrEPare)

14

 Initiatives
 Safety and regulatory compliance: clinical trial “flag” in
Cerner
 Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute grant
application pending
Page 37 of 41

 Graduate Medical Education
 22 Accredited residencies and fellowships
 Stroger employs 390 residents and fellows
 Additional trainees rotate through the hospital:
 450 residents and fellows per year from other programs

(mostly Chicago area)

 1900 Medical Students annually
 High Board Passage Rates
 Workforce development
 For CCHHS
 For underserved communities
15
Page 38 of 41

 GME a kkey d
driver
i
off quality
lit off care
 On-site,, round-the-clock care for our p
patients
 Hours of Duty are monitored
 Supervision
 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and
institutional policies align
 Quality Improvement, Patient Safety
 All residents and fellows are required to report two “near misses”
annually
 Uniform lecture series in on quality and patient safety developed
2012, attended by all learners
 All are participating in Quality Improvement projects
16
Page 39 of 41

 Acknowledgements
 Claudia Fegan, MD: Executive Medical Director
 Tanda Russell, RN: Interim Executive Director of Nursing
 Terry Mason, MD: Chief Operating Officer, Cook County

Department of Public Health

17
Page 40 of 41

 I’m happy to be back at County, assisting
a talented leadership team with a clear
vision for the organization and the
community we serve, and a diverse,
mission-driven front-line staff.
18
Page 41 of 41

 