BOARD OF DIRECTORS AGENDA
August 2, 2012
The Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System will hold their Annual Meeting on Thursday,
August 9, 2012 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago,
Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

Acting Chairman Ramirez

II.

Public Speakers

7:30-7:45

Please be advised that those wishing to provide public testimony will be called in the order in which they
registered. If there are speakers remaining after the fifteen (15) minutes allotted for public testimony, who
registered prior to the start of the meeting and who have not spoken, they may be permitted to provide their
testimony at the conclusion of the meeting, at the discretion of the Chair. Adherence to the three-minute limit
per speaker policy will be observed.
III.

Annual Elections

7:45-7:55

A. Election of Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System
B. Election of Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System

IV.

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, June 29, 2012
B. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting,
July 17, 2012

V.

7:55-8:00/Acting Chairman Ramirez
8:00-8:05/Director Muñoz

Action Items
A. Proposed Amendments to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of
8:05-8:15/Elizabeth Reidy
the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
B. Contracts and Procurement Items (backup to follow)
8:15-8:25/Gina Besenhofer
C. Proposed Academic Affiliation Agreements (backup to follow)
8:25-8:30/Dr. John O’Brien
D. Any items listed under Sections III, IV, V and VIII

VI.

Report from Chairman of the Board

8:30-8:35

A. Board Education – Overview of New Board Member Orientation
Sessions and information

8:35-8:45/Director Carvalho

 AGENDA
Annual Meeting of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, August 9, 2012
Page 2

VII. Report from Chief Executive Officer
A. Update on Oak Forest Health Center Campus
VIII. Closed Session Items

8:45-8:55/Dr. Ram Raju
8:55-9:05/Anna Ashcraft
9:05-9:25

A. Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
B. Claims and Litigation
C. ***Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting,
July 17, 2012
Closed Session
Motion to recess the regular meeting and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the
Open Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal
of specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine
its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body
has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action
is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of
the closed meeting,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as provided in the Local
Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim or
potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk management information,
records, data, advice or communications from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any
intergovernmental risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body is a member,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17), regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians or
other health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical care, that is operated by the
public body,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(28), regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental audit
committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal control weaknesses,
identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of the United States of America.”

IX.

Adjourn

 