Present:

Absent:

Also Present:

REPORT OF THE
FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 13, 2008

ATTENDANCE

Chairman David Carvalho and Directors Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, 

MPH, Heather O?Donnell, I D, LLM and Jorge Ramirez (5)

Board Chairman Warren L. Batts (Ex-Of?cio)

Luis Mu?oz, MD, MPH (1)

Director] erry Butler; Matthew DeLeon Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board of I
Commissioners of Cook County; Leslie Duffy Director of Procurement, Cook

County Bureau of Health Services; Elizabeth Reidy State?s Attorney Office; Jarese

Wilson Director, Cook County Department of Budget and Management.

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant
to notice on Monday, August 18, 2008 at the hour of 10:00 AM. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor

Conference Room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Finance Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of i this report, the

recommendations follow.

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members, and it was determined that a quorum was

present.

Roll Call

 

Contracts and Procurement Approvals?
Additional information pertaining to these items is included in Attachment #2
PROPOSED CONTRACTS - APPROVED
Quadraned Corporation Contract Period: 4/09/08 to 4i8?l
Maintenance and support of existing software system
So?ek Solutions Inc. Centract Period: 7f01f03 to 6i30i11
Management/monitoring, maintenance support
Per-Se Technologies Contract Period: 1:01:08 to 12f31f09

Software maintenance agreement
for outpatient pharmacy system

$210,415.89
$451,554.00

$237,000.00

REPORT OF THE FINANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
AUGUST 13, 2008

 

PAGE 2
UpToDate Contract Period: 4101/08 to 3731/10 $76,835.00
Online clinical subscription service
Virtual Radiologic Contract Period: 3101/03 to 7/3 1x09 $583,333.32
Tole-Radiology services .
REQUEST TO EXTEND CONTRACT - APPROVED
Medical Waste Solutions Extend from 7728/08 - 10127708
Scavenger services bio-hazardous waste
Original Contract Amount: $274,657.76
REQUEST TO INCREASE AND EXTEND CONTRACTS - APPROVED
Advance Boiler Control Services Increase requested: $40,000.00-
Maintenance and repair of the Extend from 6/6f03 to 915f08
boiler system
Original Contract Amount: $100,800.00
Anchor Mechanical Increase requested: $50,000.00

Maintenance and repair of the Extend from 7f12f08 to 10I11f08

cooling tower system
Original Contract Amount: $139,000.00

REQUEST TO AMEND A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ADVERTISE FOR BIDS - APPROVED

Maintenance and repair of radiographic units - to include Cermak Health Services
Two year contract

Chairman David Carvalho began with Item 2 the proposed contracts
Director O?Donnell asked why this contract is sole source and if the software outdated.
Leslie Duffy, Director of Procurement, Bureau of Health Services responded the system is outdated.

Chairman Carvalho stated the sole source maintenance from a particular vendor becomes a ?mction of the initial
choice to go with" that vendor. The Bureau is more or less committed to ongoing maintenancecontracts with a

vendor until you switch software.

Julie Bonello, Chief Information Of?cer, stated Quadraned Corporation is our coding vendor which allows us to
put procedure and diagnosis codes on our bills in order to get reimbursed. The software was purchased years ago
and the system is totally up-to-date with a standard maintenance contract that is renewable every year. When a
computer system is purchased like this one there is no other vendor but that vendor to provide maintenance. All the

vendors for consideration today present the same situation.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE CONMTTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 18, 2008

PAGE 3

Director Greenspan asked if Quadraned Corporation is the vendor of the coding system and if this is the annual
maintenance contract anticipated in the budget for this amount. He also inquired as to the last time speci?cations

and bids went out for a coding contract to other vendors?

Ms. Bonello responded that Quadra/Med Corporation is the vendor. Bids have not been sent out since she started
18 months ago.

David Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, stated in making the initial purchases it is a capital investment, the
Bureau chose the vendor with the best product at the time for what our needs were and the best opportunity to keep
it current over time. If the Bureau were to decide for better products out there, there would have to be due diligence
and then a' request in a capital budget for the purchase of softvvare and on going maintenance agreement for the

system over time.
Director Greenspan voiced concern about the coding system.

Ms. Bonello responded the cycle system is 3 to 4 years and most of the vendors provide upgrades to their systems.
We upgraded last year with Quadra?Med Corporation bureau wide last year. There rs now one system for all of the

facilities.

Director Golden asked if the system could interface with other systems throughout the Bureau of Health Services.

Ms. Bonello responded yes.
Director Greenspan requested a DRG or discharge report generated by this system.

Ms. Bonello responded that through another data system manufactured by 3M DRG reports are available.

Director Greenspan asked if the 3M system is fed by Cerner.
Ms. Bonello responded Cemer feeds into the 3M system and the 3M system feeds into the billing system.

Director Greenspan requested 1nformat1on of eports of discharges forthelast 3 years by DRG by admitting
physician through Cerner.

Ms. Bonello responded it would be through the Cerner System. The abstracting system would not have the
provider number.

Director Greenspan asked if they could get the next level up which is the DRG report and how long would it take to
get the information.

Ms. Bonello responded these are standard DRG reports and it should not take long to produce them.-

Director 0? Donnell asked about receiving payer mix or payer source by facility over the past three years from this
system. - .

Ms. Bonello responded that the System can produce payer source from the Siemens patients accounting system.-

Director O?Don?nell if the Virtual Radiologic contract request for service at Provident Hospital and Oak Forest
Hospital' 1s from the same contractor for the service at Stroger Hospital.

Sidney Thomas, Provident Hospital, stated Stroger Hospital does not have a contract; Stroger Hospital utilizes
residents to provide overnight coverage.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 13, 2008

PAGE 4

Chairman Carvalho stated that the ?ve proposed contracts have a start date before today and requested that Ms.
Leslie Duffy address this topic. .

Leslie Duffy, Director of Procurement, Bureau of Health Services responded the current process involves sending
the information to the Cook County Purchasing Department. It could take four to six months to get information

back.

Chairman Carvalho asked if these vendors have been maintaining service even without contracts and whether, by
retroactively approving the contracts, we were approving payments for this pre-contract service?

Ms. Bonello responded yes.
Director Greenspan asked are there any items beyond what was budgeted or anticipated.

Mr. Small responded several contracts are beyond the individual line items that were budgeted. However, the .total
dollars are contained within the current year?s budget. - -

Director O?Donnell asked how are budget shortfalls accessed?
Mr. Small indicated that transfers are proposed to the Board from other line items where we are under expending.

Director O?Donnell, seconded by Director Golden, moved to approve the Contract and Procurement
Approvals. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Old Business

Follow up items from 3/04 Meeting
David Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Bureau of Health Services

Mr. Small commented on Item 1 regarding The Intergovernmental Transfer (IGT) in terms of split of actual funds
between the State and the County and those funds which come directly to the system. The question relatedito why
it appears the Bureau is receiving less funding in our intergovernmental transfer this year then what was in the

budget.

Randall Mark, Director of Policy Analysis, answered that the IGT splits have been established for many years.
These splits are lower than anticipated for this year due to two factors: 1) in December 2007, the County repaid a
$10 million advance from the State of Illinois for the prior ?scal year; 2) The ?nal quarter of the current federal
?scal year which ends September 30 represents conclusion of upper payment phase down, reducing available IGT
payments, removing all supplemental IGT payments other than the BIPA payment.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMIMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 18, 2008

PAGE 5

Chairman Carvalho stated there were actually three IGT arrangements. The ?rst is volume related Medicaid patient
fee revenues; the second and third are ?xed negotiated amounts of supplemental payments which are reported as
IGT or BIPA payments in the ?nancial reports.

Mr. Marks made reference to the materials handed out at a previous meeting.

 

Dash Boards
David Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Bureau of Health Services
Deferred at the meeting of the Finance Committee on August 4. 2008.

Mr. Small stated he requested data ?'om the Information Systems Department to assemble reports regarding ?red
?ag? items including patient metrics (number, type, length of stay); admission of self pay vs. Medicaid. There are
large arrays of dashboard items: The Clinical reports will be presented to Quality Committee; Operational. 
overtime) and Financial will he presented to ?nance. Regarding the trial balance, we are catching up in ?le
maintenance. There are accounts that were written off in 2005-06 after audit; however, patient accounts related to
these write?oil's are still on the system. Once the 200'? audit is approved, these accounts will have to come the
system. The Bureau is trying to match local and industry standards for records management.

Director O?Donnell asked if charges? are receipts.

Ms. Bonello responded yes.

Chairman Carvalho asked each board member if they could identify things they would like to have appear on the
report from the administration.

Director Golden asked if these documents could be sent electronically.
Ms. Bonello indicated it is possible, however, that more user licenses may need to be purchased.
Director Greenspan asked where the Ambulatory Network numbers are to be found.

Ms. Bonello stated the ACHN numbers are incorporated under the hospital numbers, and some of the ACHN clinic
numbers are under Provident Hospital and Oak Forest Hospital. ..

John Cookingham Chief Financial Officer, Oak Forest Hospital, stated the billing is done through the hospital
facilities with which they are associated. ACI-IN does keep statistic regarding visits, which are published on a

basis.

Chairman Carvalho asked if some of the costs associated with the ACHN clinics are intertwined with various
hospital budgets, including Stroger and Provident Hospital budgets.

Mr. Small stated that they are and that to separate them will require systems to be' in place that we do not yet have;
we are working on it.

Director Golden asked have the data been analyzed.

Mr. Small explained the data come directly from the system and have not yet been analyzed.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 18, 2008

PAGE 6

Chairman Carvalho asked if the Department of Public Health and Cermak were included. If not, there should be
another way to keep track so the Committee sees the whole picture.

 

Proposed Close Schedule
David Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer, Bureau of Health Services

Data?srred at tire meetingr ofthe Finance Committee on August 4, 2003.

Mr. Small stated that within ten days of the end of the month, the Bureau would get on the schedule within 60 days.
Mr. Small also indicated that the General Ledger system must be purchased during this time.

 

Update on Procurement Policy
Leslie Duffy, Director of Procurement, Bureau of Health Services
Batter-red at the meeting ofthe Finance Committee on August 4, 2008.

Mr. Small stated the ?nancial systems may meet the County needs for procurement but not performing and
operating in a way that is much more standardized to health care operations. The administration is proposing to the
Board a ne rocess a nd rocedure for ontracting aking a dvantage a Gr oup urchasing 0 rganiaation
(GPO), which would save money, provide far more information standardization and provide quality goods and

supplies that are needed in support of the delivery of services.

Leslie Duffy stated that developing a set of contracting policy and procedures would provide value to all the
hoSpitals in the system. The goals are to streamline the process, improve communication within the departments

and executive leadership and support and develop accountability.
Chairman Carvalho asked if the GPO would need to work with Contract Compliance.
Ms. Duffy replied we are hoping to develop a mechanism to bypass Contract Compliance.

Chairman Carvatho stated we should work with the State?s Attorney of?this. .

Chairman Carvalho also asked about the process for contracting with a 

Ms. Du??y stated there is a pharmacy GPO contract in place and perhaps the Bureau can start accessing it now for
other goods until the pharmacy GPO is up for renewal in October, 2009. It would be unwise to have only one GPO.

Typically, hospitals use primary and secondary GPOs.

Chairman Carvalho reiterated to the State?s Attorney that in procuring the GPO, the Board would have to go
through the current procurement process which can take, seven months. Perhaps instead the Board can adopt a
resolution to carve out a procurement process for the GPO itself that is faster to obtain the savings sooner.

Je?' McCutcheon, State's Attorney Of?ce, replied that these are among the issues that are being worked on.

Ms. Duffy stated that the pharmacy staff believe the GPO system for pharmacyhas save $25-30 million dollars.
Director Golden asked why the current GPO would be replaced if it is working.

Chairman Carvalho stated the current GPO system deals with pharmacy only and the proposed GPO would be
broader than that.

REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 18, 2008

PAGE 7

 

Cost Re ort date
David Small, Interim Chief Executive Officer, Bureau of Health Services

De?erred at the meeting ofthe Finance Committee on August 4, 2008.

Mr. Small stated the Bureau is trying to account more appropriately for depreciation, malpractice and other items in
its cost reports and that this has the potential to reap additional dollars. Health Management Associates is
providing expertise in preparing cost reports. There is a need to enlist outside resources which have the expertise to
review several years of ?lings to see whether all the appropriate cost were recognized; there may be an opportunity
for reconsideration of items to generate more money.

Chairman Carvalho stated Item 5 on the agenda would be discussed at the next Finance Committee meeting.

 

Information Systems Update
Julie Bonello, Chief Information Of?cer, Bureau of Health Services
Deferred at the meeting ofthe Finance Committee on August 4. 2008.

Ms. Bonello gave an updated presentation on Enterprise Resource Planning System selection processes. A resource
planning system would integrate ?nance, human resources, and the whole supply chain. The system would support
all entities. In 2007, I-IIMSS reported 962 healthcare installations.

Director O?Donnell asked what technical system would be replaced.

Ms. Bonello stated the County?s JD Edwards?s system is currently in use. Other than that, this would be a new
system providing heretofore unavailable capability. 

Mr. Small commented that there is no general ledger system. Information is obtained from the county system,
which is the JD Edwards system. The JD Edwards system used by the county is good but not industry standard for
health care. The ERP would replace County systems.

Ms. Bonello stated the IS department staf?ng is low with 71 employees. The migration to full electronic medical
records will require additional staff.

Director O?Donnell suggested management share with the Board its priorities. What is absolutely needed and
doable within the ?rst year?

Director Golden asked if all the hospitals are using electronic medical records.

Ms. Bonello stated Provident Hospital is not using electronic medical records, and that work is underway right now
to implement electronic medical records at the hospital. Physicians and nurses must be trained onhow to use the
system. In 2002, Stroger Hospital implemented EMR, but had 50 Cemer resources on campus to providing
training. Oak Forest Hospital was trained in 2005. (See attach)

REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

AUGUST 18, 2003

PAGE 8

 

Discussion of the following:
Interim Chief Financial Of?cer for Stroger Hospital

Permanent Chief Financial Of?cer for Stroger Hospital
Deferred at the meeting Finance Committee on August 2008.

'Mr. Small stated he has interview a quali?ed candidate for the Interim CFO position at Stroger. The candidate is
coming on campus this week to interview with more staff. We are Still currently advertising and gathering resumes

for the permanent Stroger CFO.
Board Chairman Batts asked if?the Bureau was using a search ?rm to ?ll this position.

Mr. Small responded they were not. Board Chairman Batts suggested that that be re-evaluated.

 

Public Comments

None.

new

Chairman Carvolho adjourned the meeting.

Respectfully submitted,

Finance Committee of the

Board of Directors of the

Cook County Health and Hospitals System

    

in Golden, Director

75 

hiatthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

?The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, 118 North Clark
Street, Room 567, Chicago, Illinois 60602.

ATTACHMENT 2

Date:


Operating Unit:

Description of

Service:

Justi?cation for
this contract:

 

APPROVED

Cook County Health and Hospital ms AUG 2 2 2035

BY BOARD OF
Contract Item for Board Approval DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

August 1 l, 2008

Julie Bonello
Chief Information Of?cer

Cook County Bureau of Health Services
Health Information Systems

This request is to enter into new software maintenance contract
with Quadraned Corporation Reston, Virginia. QuadraMed is
the encoding software used by all the Medical Records
departments to code procedures and diagnosis.

Quadrancd Corporation is the manufacturer and the only.' known
source of maintenance and support of the existing software system.
The software system allows the system to identify patient care
resource consumption by severity of diagnosis, allocate resources
accordingly, elevate productivity and staf?ng effectiveness,
generate data for budget projection, management and strategic
planning is required by regulatory agencies (Date of the proposed
contract is 04i09f2008 to 041'03i2011).

Cost of the contract

and terms: 

Fiscal Impact $210,415.39

Budget Information: Fiscal 2003: $77,423.13; Fiscal Impact 2009: $65,616.06;

Signatures:
Sponsor

Operating Unit CFO 

Director

of Purchasing

COO

Fiscal 2010: $67,376.70: Approval of this item will commit Fiscal
Year(s) 2003-2010 (890-441 Account)

\tnc ass as: 09?

Eff-Eb

 
   

?m\wqw 
4k4r-O Hahn??201. 3915?s??

 

W43

 

Date:

Sponsor:

Operating Unit:

Description of

Service:

Justi?cation for
this contract:

 

Cook County Health and Hospital Syste ROVED

Contract Item for Board Approval AUG 2 2 2008
I scroasa?ogngEIisgSK 

Augus" 1? 2003 HEALTH mo sysrehrii"

 

Julie Bonello
Chief Information Of?cer

Cook County Bureau of Health Services
Health Information Systems

This request is to enter into contract with So?ek Solutions Inc.,
Prairie Village, Kansas. to provide managementfmonitoring,
maintenance support for the Corner Millennium hospital
information management system for the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System.

The system allows the information Technologies Department to
monitor and manage the Millennium system in order to identify
and address system issues before they affect the end-users, thereby
increasing regulatory compliance with HIPPA and Joint
Commission and increasing department staff ef?ciency. The
So?e]: Panther System is the only web?based management and
monitoring system for the Center Millennium System. (Date of
the proposed contract is July 01, 2003 through June 30, 201 1).

Cost of the contract.

and terms:

Fiscal impact $451,554.00

Budget infer-rump: Fiscal 2008: 95,186.00; Fiscal Impac12009: $123,552.00;

Signatures:
Sponsor

Operating Unit CFO -

Director
of Purchasing

CCl-ll-lS COO

Fiscal 2010: $132,316.00; Approval of this item will commit
Fiscal Year-(3) 2003-2010 (390-44l AccOunt)

mgt?-Q kli? . muse-?a gills-j)

are

 

neg:
Ire-- 
?3 ilr

J: .
?an. EDI?mas;- lw- an 



 

Date:

 

Sponsor:
Operating Unit:

Description of
Service:

Justification for
this contract:

 

APPROVED

Cook County Health and Hospital Syste 

1 AUG 2 2 2003
Contract Item for Board Approval

BY BOARD OF
?cornerstones:
August 1 I, 2003 

Julie Bonello
Chief Information Of?cer

Cook County Bureau of Health Services
Health Information Systems

This request is to enter into a software maintenance agreement
with Per-Se Technologies for the outpatient pharmacy system
currently installed and in use across the Bureau since 1990. The
contract includes 2 years of unlimited maintenance. technical
support, software upgrades and limited professional services.

Approval of this request will allow continued use ofthc Per?Se
Outpatient pharmacy system to ?ll ali outpatient prescriptions.
Compliance issues have historically impeded the timely renewal of
this contract.

Cost of the contract

and terms:

This contract is in the amount of$237.000.00 with a duration
period of one year, effective 01/013008 through 1281:2009, as
well as contingent interface and professional services for a
managed care Pharmacy System.

Budget Information: The cost for this contract has been provided for within the current

Signatures:

Sponsor

- 
Operating Unit CFO 

Director
of Purchasing

COO

operating budget for the Cook County Bureau of Health Services,
Health Information Systems in account 44L

?Ru?daima 

are

x,


t]
?in
{Pia-1.1.- a:

 

en?s?;

 

 

APPROVED

Cook County Health and Hospital Syste

?5r

 

 

Contract Item for Board Approval AUG 2 2 2008
BY BOARD or
OF THE COOK COUNTY
Date: August I I. 2003 HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Sponsor: Julie Bonello
- Chief Information Of?cer

Operating Unit: Cook County Bureau of Health Services
Health Information Systems

Description of
Service: This request is to enter into contract with UptoDate, an online

clinical subscription service. Up?FoDate covers more than 7,400
topics in 13 medical specialties and includes more than 76,000
pages oftext, graphics. links to Medlinc abstracts, more than
254,000 references, and a drug database. is the most
widely used online medical reference service used by clinicians
nationwide. This service also includes treatment recommendations
based on the best medical evidence. Compliance issues impeded
the timelyr approval of this contract.

Justi?cation for

this contract: This service allows clinicians access to current and accurate
clinical information that helps institutions improve quality of care
and increase patient safety. Our clinicians use this service daily.

Cost of the contract
and terms: This contract is in the amount of $76,335.00 with a duration period
of two years, effective We tf2008 through 03i31i20l0.

Budget Information: The cost for this contract has been provided for within the current
operating budget for the Cook County Bureau of Health Services.
Health Infonnation Systems in account 383.

Signatures: .
Sponsor A a ?hectic..- sf.)

I 311i:
Operating Unit CFO [4075? ?ag/L?

CCHH Director 
of Purchasing NOAH-A

{new}.

 

Em
Operating Unit:

mm
Service:

Justi?cation for
this contract:

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System

 

APPROVED

AUG 22 2008

BY BOARD OF

Contract Item for Board Approval DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Sidney A. Thomas
Chief Operating Officer

Provident HoSpital of Cook County

I am requesting authorization to enter into a contract with Virtual
Radiologic, Minneapolis, MN This contract is for the provision of

tote-radiology services for Provident Hospital of
Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County.

Cook County and

This service is required due to the limited number of radiologists
on staff and the need for radiology reports 24 hours, 7 days a week
to provide safe care to in- patients and emergency room patients.

A Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued and Virtual Radiologic
was chosen by virtue of thorn meeting all speci?cations.

Cost of the contract

and terms:

This is a one year contract to commence on August 1,2008 and
end on July 31 2009. The total anticipated cost of the contract is

$583, 333. 32.

Budget information: The cost for this contract has been provided for within the current

operating budget for Provident Hospital of Cook
Account 891-272 and Oak Forest Hospital of Co
Account 398-272.

 

 

Signatures: I

.
Sponsor (g diam
Operating Unit CFO Mia?
Director t. 
of Purchasing Lined}:- 0.. 
?mu?J ?rich

COO

l-Kfa n. 


County In
olc County In

 

 

CONTRACT REQUEST FROM PR 
HOSPITAL - - 22 2008 I
7/13/03 - 

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Requesting authorization to enter into a new contract with Virtual Radiologie, l?vlinneapolis1
Minnesota, to provide mic-radiology services for Provident Hospital of Cook County and Oak
Forest Hospital of Cook County.

Reason: A Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued and Virtual Radiologic met all the
requirements set forth in the RFP. The need for this senrice is due to the limited number of
radiologists on staff and the need for radiology reports 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to support
the provision of safe care to patients in our emergency rooms and inpatient at Provident Hospital

and Oak Forest Hospital. (Date of the proposed contract is August 1, 2008 through July St,
2009.) 

Fiscal Impact: $216,666.68 (Fiscal Yr. 2008: Fiscal Yr 2009:
Approval of this item will commit Fiscal Yeatfs) 2008-
2009. (891-272 and 898-272 Accounts)?

 

 

APPROVED

. AUG '2 2 2008
Cook County Health and Hospitals SysterL BY BOARD OF
- DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COU

 

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS 

 

 

Contract Item for Board Approval

Date: August 1, 2008
Sponsor: Sydney A. Thomas
Chief Operating Of?cer

Operating Unit: Provident Hospital of Cook County

Description of 
Service: This request is to extend CC 06-72-3 5 9 from 728.308? to 1037/08

for scavenger services, bio-hazardous waste with Medical Waste
Solutions, Gary, IN.

Justi?cation for

this contract: - The expiration of the contract was TIQWDS. The new contract, 08?
73-260 has a scheduled bid opening date of 81'13/08. Approval of
this request will allow continued scavenger services for Provident
Hospital, Near South Clinic and Englewood Clinic until the
evaluation, award and implementation of a new contract.

Cost of the contract
and terms: This original contract was Cook County Board approved on
7f24!06 in the amount of $274,657.? 6.

Budget information: Suf?cient funds are available to meet the requested extension

period of this contract for Provident HoSpital. Near South Clinic
and Englewood Clinic in Account 215.

Sigpatures:

Spenser

 

Director r;
of? Purchasing

COO

 

 

OFF ICE. OF THE. COUNTY CLERK - CLERK OF THE BOARD

AGENDA TRANSMITTAL FORMIREQUEST FOR BOARD MEETING OF
Using Agency: Bureau of Health Services Dnte: solos Purchase Requisition No;

This Form must be used to place business transactions (itemized below) on the agenda for the COOK COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. questions must be answered in order for your request to be placed on the Board
Agenda. 

 

1. Describe item (unmeiqunntily) or sen-ices requested: AP ROVE 

Scavenger services. wrote for Provident Hospital orcmt; County

2. Who! type oftronsnetion are you requesting? AUG 2 2 2008
A. Advertise For bids [go directly'to question 5). BY BOARD OF
B- 't Enter ?1110 a . DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
C. Renewal ot?esisting contract: HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

You may check more than one of the following it'npplicahte.
D. ?1 Increase dollar amount ofexisting contract.
Ii. (X) Extend time period on existing contract.

3. Hyatt checked EB through 2E, you must complete all the following questions:
A. Vendor name and address:
Medlenl Waste Solutions
PO Box 
Gary. Indiana
[?t-em rm: requesting to enter into contract with er My company or individual. you mutt erpiuin why this company or
individual is #:1393355 one capable lilo produrls or son-ices. Likewise. you must :rpiain why a roun'nl or extension is

"commit in Her: ofh'bide'ing:

B. Reason:

The increase and extension is required to provide continued scavenger sentient; for the removal of biuhmrdous waste materials
from Provident llospilnL Near South Clinic and Clinicpending bid. evaluation and award ol'lhc new controottControct
The dole ofthc current contract is Suf?cient funds have been encumbered against lite cont-net
award to meet the requested extension period.

It. It you checked K: through 2E above, you must complete the following:
Contract NIL: 06-12?359
Amount of original llourrl approved contract: 
Board approval Dntet- moor. Bid Report
5. Expiration date of current contract toms
Dates of proposed contract (if applicable); from: 'li?zlt'os to: worms
6. Fiscal Impact: Sonoo Budget Account: 0900901520060 890-215
Account Description: Scavenger Services
A. Amount of new contract increase: 500.00
B. Amount of above applicable to initial ?scal year: $00.00
Name: David It. Email, F.A.C.H.E. . Phone:
Title: Chief Operators O?iecr

Bureau of Health Services
Signature:

 

{If there are insuf?cient funds nvoi'loble in the indicated budget account. please complete the reverse side. per request of the President ol'tltc
Board.) -

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Contract Item for Board. Approval

 

APPROVED

Date: August I, 2003
Sydney A. Thomas AUG 2 2 2033
Chief Operating Of?cer
cou
Operating Unit: Provident Hospital of Cook County . HOSPITALS SYSTEH

 

Description of
Service: This request is to extend CC 06-53-363 from 6f6f08 to 92?5f08 and

increase by $40,000.00 for Maintenance Repair of the boiler
system with Advance Boiler Control Services, Crown Point, IN.

Justi?cation for

this contract: The expiration of the contract was 65.108. The new contract, 08-
83~249 opened for bids on HIDE. Approval of this request will
allow continued services for the boiler system until the evaluation,
award and implementation of a new contract.

Cost of the contract
and terms: This original contract was Cook County Board approved on 6l6l08
- in the amount 

Budget information: The cost for this contract has been provided for within the current
operating budget for Provident Hospital of Cook County in

 

Account 450.
Signatures: .
Sponsor A - 
I 
Operating Unit CF 0

   

Director
of Purchasing

 

COO

 

OFFICE OF THELCOUNTY CLERK - CLERK OF THE BOARD

AGENDA TRANSMITFAL FDWEQUEST FOR BOARD MEETING 01"
Using Agency: Bureau ufl-lcalth Services Date: 4on3 Purchase Requisition Nth:

'lids Form must be used to place business transactions (itemized below) on the agenda for the COOK COUNTY
OF COMMISSIONERS. 51L questions most he answered in order for your request to be placed on the Board
Agenda.

1. llescrihe item (namefquantityl or services requested: APP ROVE 

Maintenance and repair. Boiler system for Provident Hospital ot'Cook County

 

AUG 2 2 2003

2. What type of transaction are you requesting?

Advertise for bids (go directly to qucgstion 5). BY BOARD OF
Enter into it connect. I DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
Renewal ofcxisting contract: HEALTH AND HOSPWALS SYSTEM

 

A.
You may check more than one ofthe following 

D. (X) Increase dollar mnount of existing contract.

E. (X) Extend time period on existing contract.

3. 11' you checked EB through IF). you must complete all the following questions:
A. Vendor name and address:
Advance Boiler Control Services

3730 Cline Avenue
Crown Point, in

[?uent arc room-sting to enter into a contract with a {Mile compel-9? or individual. 1m: mart eat-pinto why title ?05?qu or
individual it the ante one ccpobt?c oj'rapplying the products or sci-weer. Likewise. you mart malaria why a renewed or era-taint: it
accuser}.- in that: ofrcbiddt'ng:

B. Reason:
'l11e increase and cioeosion is required to provide continued maintenance and repair services for dieboiler system equipment pending.
hid. evaluation and award or the new contrart(Contraet 08-33-249. bid open The expiration date ot'tlrc current contract is


4. lfyou checked 2C through 2E above-Jon must complete the following:
Contract No: 06-53-363
Amount of original Board approved contract: monsoon)
Board approval Date: Home
5. Expiration date of current contract (If applicable): oracle
Dates of proposed contract (if applicable); from: atoms to: 9t5toa
a. iseai lmliact: snouoono Budget Account: 3900 540360 390?150
Account Description: Repair. Building d; Institutional Equipment
A. Amount of not-r contract increase: $40,000.00
8. Amount of above applieuhle to initial ?senl your: 
Name: David R. Small. Phone:
Title: Chief Operating Officer

Bureau of Health Services.
Signature:

{if there are insut'?cient funds available in the Indicated budget account. please complete the reverse request of the President or the
Board}

 

 

APPROVED

AUG 2 2 2008

BY BOARD OF .
OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System

 

 

Contract Item for Board Approval

Date: August 1, 2008 
Sponsor: . Sydney A. Thomas
Chief Operating Of?cer

Operating Unit: Provident Hospital of Cook County

Description of
Service: This request is to extend CC 06-53-36] from to 101?1 1/03

and increase by $50,000.00 for Maintenance Repair of the
cooling tower system with Anchor Mechanical, Chicago, EL.

Justi?cation for

this contract: The expiration of the contract was 7H ?03. The new contract, 08-
72-251, has a scheduled bid opening date of Approval of
this request will allow continued services for the cooling tower
system equipment.

Cost of the contract - 

and terms: This original contract was Cook County Board approved on 6f6i08
in the amount of $139,000,100.

Budget information: The cost for this contract has been provided for within the current

operating budget for Provident HoSpital of Cook County, Account
450.

Signatures:

Sponsor {ii ?44; A i lam?4.;
Operating Unitcro WM

Director 
ofPurchaSin {41%
. Ira

.- n. 

COO

 

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY CLERK- CLERK OF THE BOARD

AGENDA FOR BOARD MEETING OF

Using Agency: Bureau of Health Services Date: drains Purchase Requisition No.:

This form must he used to place businesa transactions {itemized below) on the agenda for the COOK 
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. ?que?tions must be answered in order For your request to be placed on the Board

 

APPROVED

1. Describe iteu: (nameiquantity) or services requested:

 

Maintenance and repair, cooling tower system For Provident Hospital ol'Cooit County
AUG 2 2 20 [18
2. 'Whnt type are you rcqueatiug'!
AdvertiSe for bids (go directly to question COUNTY
Enter in?) a HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
)Rencwat of existing contract;

You may check more than one of the following ifeppiicablc.
(X) increase dollar amount of existing contract.

A.

B.

C.

D.

E. Extend time period on existing contract.

3. "you checked '28 through 2E. you must complete all the following questionn:

A. Vendor name and address:

Anchor Mechanical
ZIS South Aberdeen Street
Chicago. Illinois

from are requesting to enter into a contract with a sggj?g company or individual. j'tm mutt entrain win: this company or
t'rttiiuitiuai is the only one capable the products or service-r. Lila-win: you must erpiain wire a renewal or attention is
necessanr in firm 

B. Reanon:

The increase and extension is required to provide motioned maintenance and repair service: for thecooling tower system equipment
hid. evaluation and award of the new 03-72?251. hid open the expiration date of the 
Is in Unit.

4. It" you checked 2C through 2E above. you must complete the following:
Contract NIL: 06-53-36]
Amount of original Board approved contract: 930,000.00
Board npproul Date: water.
5. Expiration date of current contract (if applicable): not
Dates of proposed contract (if applicable): from: mama to: 
o. Fincnl Impact: ssonoouo Budget Account: soon .saoroo coonso
Account Description: Repair. Building, a. institutional Equipment
A. Antnunt ol?new contract increase: 550.000.00
B. Amount of above nup?cahle to initial ?scal year: 550.000.00
Name: David R. Smell, F.A.C.H.F.. Phone:
Title: Chief Operating Of?cer

Bureau of Health Services
Signature:

 

(litherc are insul?cient funds available in the indicated budget account, please complete the rcucrsc side, per request ot?lhe President ct?the
Board}

 

 

 

 

mm STRUGER Fax MEI. 1 312 864 9763 Rug. a1 2225 11:41am P1
qu-UJ idtU-l 
C001: County Health and Hospitals System AUG 2 2 2003
. BY BOARD OF
. mm? It? hard DIRECTORS OF EHsElg?l-t scum
I David Fagus 
ChiefOpm?ngO?m

WHcahh WofCook Commty

- 



mo??nalmquestwasCookConnty
Elam #10.

 

 

Quit ofthe mm

Hammad 1121111

8510, 0110.00ch 000 00

cm
0114:2111:ng for Cum}: Health Swim ofCook Comty,
19113111240442.

513011301? 

DpuntingUuitCFO




CCHI-IB COO

 

 Attachment 3

Month End Closing Schedule

 

 

5. my?: me 20GB .
.Fil; Iaca?an: - I -?\Ducumermard Samngs?l?l'emparary Internet xlsP-IE Shawn-1003
Day of an:- Week bane Axe-lg: to 57am
Ian BUM-55 day Ff month allanday. 30. 2063
Quill-u! Day I deaf, July 01, 20M ch'od' wdufld: sub mini-n interfaces-AP Elm-'31. PO Pf 1mm
Business Day 2 Wednesday. July 2005 accruals a mirth
Bur-I'm Day 3 My. Edy 03, 2003 Rum-e review muting-1M?
Businnabuy4 My, deem}:
Bus-5m: Day 5 Tuesday, July 03. zone Exp-me review-AM Balm Shae? review-PM
Jun: clued "end of 511! day
Business hey a Wednesday. July OP. zone EL Signa? ?le Hoard Repar'r gen-ration
am my 7 ?ll-salary. July 10. 2003 new: a. Comment: by we mm:- a are
Bu?n?: Dar 3 Frlday. July 11. zone Ann 10 mail apart: fa Flnanaa Mammal
Business Day 9 ?and?. 'July H. ma
Business Day 10 Tuesday, July 15. 2006 Hm Comamu
Business Day 11 
Bechtel any 12

Ex: Eager-s 5mm each
mat-d accruals from 4MP baskin-
and Check journal errar recycle (SEE Queryl E_Header_5fa1us" for N. E, or efai'us entries)

Assign 1a eh af-f'tdara when complete
La." day of month . Malay. June 3-0. 2006 Ingrid Ensure standard JEI generated (?penny and templeze]
Susan Vaid cheek: in system befere [an AP pas-r
JIP completes lm pus-tang mun be dare befare PD ml jab run-a on Day!
.I. . deck for unpasted muehusxenrreei maker: 1 run mlpas'l?lngjab 1 redneck far urea-tea wand-nary. figure match

at all BLburin-ess units-?Mummy periad should be open. In 5.9: :l-c period far all categories
M1e.?f EL am Is not awn for rev.- pu-md. alunAP checks run 1hr. new mn1h1hey will POST Ta the prior- mar-1hr
Mm, irmn?lary the rewmaalhwiil page fa 1he marl; bell-g closed
_in AP. apen ne- ancaunhng period, last should be clased?l let AP luvaw can nawkey
this step :hauld be done after EL has been opened for the new penad. (name you mllgere mag
Run AP in j?u'l'?l gem'larndI-eck far we Inter-laud APlinu-??lauld nut wet fuchapie?mrib?ams: a?el-

 

Inga-Id rem-face run. no ?nes resulmd Ir. maeeufel

Nan-qr balance AP vouchers eu'lsfand'ing nepa?' (qua-I; ra balance a! 6L accoun'l 2000


Bab pas? 1M entry for email: end {see patient ?taunting min-{ace unstrucrsam)

Bah Run SDK mph-Fr:

?ab haw-cc system rep-arr: ta intern: and bulume sheer azcoqnl's

Heath End Gluing Schedule

Iii-grid

Irgrid

Ingrid
Ingnd

 

 

Run inventory balance neparnuall El pin-mate Inventorie?eheck againil EL after-interfaces run

:11:ka unpasted linea?irun journal gamut-ll recheck-Mid aTm be done every day during clam: but da no? Inlet-fame
until the fella-ding month-do an accrual instead

Il' there are lit-es. need to run jaumal generative fr :he period cave-red"
danlyuuta interface does not pick up pricr dares; else the last- day af the marsh may not have recessed fab-ck an int Eu;
0mm. ?500

prepare 9  imam-y mmpar'isan report ?i review with Libby 'i acquit 6L :f indium-ea!

shauld? receive 10 auto that pa 4. receive.- alas: messes all ran successfully

PO -nun praaeas to receipt: (accrual is autamated in PD system, has ta be run ta El. manually by jbuf'ml generator)
Feb PO prams: nan 

Balance Sheet reean far account 200640 cannula-"reams af 

Macy Balanee Sheet reaan far- INV accrual [2001} (ahauld equal Int-entry oper? and received bul- n-at matehed ta AP
In result: of Query lack for linel canning 1a are 200th send ta air-em far
correction. receiver's need in be corrected



Ruth Should have nut last day af math see run Depreciatian Elm

Ruth . ahauld have run last day af manth See interface all entries to EL a. past

Ruth shauid have run Ida-ref with sea Charge A?awaunling period one all entries have inlet-faced

Ruth cl Libby Review Depreelafian entry-lemme

Ruth pull reports balancing FPE a LIP accounts. inc acaum dean:

WW

Team til-neck fai- tmpa?ad Journal entities

Nancy ?eck-ring errn-I'a pasted:



11'ng Depending an tin-Ling. balanelng for pan-all and pan-all accruals may acm- any clay during elase.

Day 2 Wadi-lucky. ill-'ulgiiI DE. 2003 Ingrid Reclass Cradle ,Plltaernacy. eh:
Cheek-3.9 may run PO enema!

only 1 Flun in P0 accruals before end of day: this assure; thaf PO will accrue far end af manth even If a voucher Ia matched 156: et.

Laura TMC cash entries by end af day 2 so rev-ewe workup?: dan?l change. especially clearing accounts.

After interludes complete, run EL Activity reparl' (process I?lluff?br?p?'hgl activity rep-art) far the
ap?l'lanal marl-?t See file in open with excel and save to FianLleraru as ails file.
Ingrid Receive 5% stats and lnfa from SPE admin.- starl- SPG anti-let
Laura Valid-per Enl?e: reennciled by Eleven: Meeting premium at until

Day 3 Thu-Idem July 03. 2036

Laura Miscellanea: I'm-rue Entr-ea by an! af clay

Iagna? Cheri: "law-chasm far- all ?rental ml:

Ingrid dice}: inventor-f lines nus Interlaced ta eraune m1 material

Susan FrankW?hvl-lia

by new Meeting: Update 
By Rename ?eeting- lhmtameieme and canlmmu' aadiustments

Bay 4

Inn-any. Juiy or, zoos

Month End closing 

Bob

Susan 
Susan 
Susan: 
Bah

moon!
Swan Frank

Ingrid

Ruih

Libby

Ingrid
?ocl'ich?i?rcm

Bob

Ecru no longer win-w

orcanrl-if grabs. 15 and: tin: fa mum-ad for board rcpur'ls Luhhy

bay?



3min": Day 7
Rosin-cc: Day 8
Bus-inns: Day 9

Tucsdoy. DB. 2N3

wmmy, July o9, zone

at??

Ingrid monitor physicoi
Ingrid

oL. Tum, cFo, cumin Baden on-

EL. Tm. CFO. War. Bucigcf Din

now

can
Libby?iIrgricl
6  Tm


Libby

Rolifomord died-L

Libby


oval-yon:
Ingrid Bob

Income Stamper?, AR Aging, uni moor-1' .. Ad} P: day figwc?orh +o Nc?. mporfJ-iospicg nntriasxruporis. our? for It?
91 accoun'ls last no poi]. Update 'lrud for

nu: um "Socr?o on a

post ncbicw: Hospital if required

Bordfdash arm-1c:

E-hor?crm voiuorion

Erbium Swap

Easinrh arcao'io storm n1: for prior up If no? cocci-Ed
[Ra-class] PPU expanse coco-uni

Mani-lam Trus?l Emu-51mm En1rics
SPG campiated

Dwuio?on ravioli with Libby if not done all-and?

acne?: ?ipph' Emu: cs?mo?rc prior to on Friday

2:00 pm - review Agency micron-no:

Stan dun WE 1o 6L [upload]

Yard! a Ens-rm Arcadia

Several-ac MW

Pooch?:

Foundation ant-nu, inc zeroing unrc?n'c'l'cd net users

6mm enirb'cs

W5 can-y for Phi-mow 
Load 31m fiiu?pn'lh: Process Load EOM memioodnum TMMcamE-dhauld pr
m: - 1P a DP Humor? Printing. Food Sal-rim, CCRS. DDT. 6cm Procusing.Ccn1Mi Supply

- EEG: to a W, Ambulatory Sugar-f to OR. Courier 1a Laundry buimclmouia a bus pasccs

Pharmacy Inventory odjt?imcnes

check for uninfarfocad ins-minty past accrual if significan'l

11am Eton-m Ruin:

491: among am 511m 

Bohncc Shc?b-rutnf: Fo'n fund balana: by rc?nctlon . ck income rollforw-d, also ck budget for mo. rid
verify accu-ucy of budg? In P5 v: Board approved

Balance. Shea!? run-r osscf rolifornord. tun-em- your Home. :ollfum??d. also ck budge? for mon?d

?l 1l' .1 It3.-
Euquu-r 15 {call Halo Duh} 'l?o nzw: "Mm?l cm? dual-imam! mourn? 11c. Exp-cm Rap-on.
frond rayon-1. Emu-o! Lung-r- and!

 

Notify Dorothy. ond Rochnl Damion-cl: for FE. and con be run for month

Tm 1:20.000 in Illa-I'll! Eiid?oc-a: a ?mm? on. from! rep-on aln
EL sign-off filo Board mm animation: Board a. Poul-palm mum: pay:

Mr. July 10, 2006 Export: 5. Gannonnf: Ruin-Md by Conirollcr, Buds-:1 bit-Idol- CFO

Friday. July Ill. 2006
Monday. July 141 2:10!

Jan: 1'9 "Id? 10 Cornml?aa

ATTACHMENT #4

 

 

 

  

  

HOSPITALS 5?!st

CONTRACTING AND PURCHASING UPDATE

I 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

magnammumhd?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

  

. couuw HEALTH AND
Ham-mu: SYSTEM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


ammbuumrmm
?lm? tun-uni

   

   

 

 

 

I





12' EEC 
.

.. ?dd--4 - -
I I - 
nun-ham 

all-mm

I

hm?? m-zm-n 
In

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

us?rst 111 Board and Hospital Designeeslsgifo
a GPO selection committee 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

SYSTEM

KCOUNTY 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- .. --

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
    

'crease patient satisfaction

COUNTY HEALTH AND
I SYETEM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ltv. sif Massachusetts
rt! Health Services

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Attachment 5

DEPRECIATION 

1. Oak Forest and Provident use the Straight Line 
Method. -

2. For FY 2Q07 oak Forest Depreciation is $3,715,497
and Provndent IS $2,404,793.

5. Both Oak Forest and Provident. the amounts are
directly assigned In_ the Cost Report under "New
Capital Costs and ?xtures" and "New
Capital Costs Movable Equment."

4. Stroger _uses an accelerated depreciation method for
calculatmg DepreCIatIon Expense. 

DEPRECIATION (cont'd)

5. In FY 2007 under this method on the Financial
Statements for Stroger. ACHN and CORE the amount
is $52,439,773.

6. Medicare only accepts a Straight Line Method for
DepreCIatIon Expense.

7.. The Straight Line Method of Depreciation in FY 2007
for Stroger totals $33,384,495 and IS added to the
Cost Report as an under New Capital
Costs and Fixtures" and "New Capital
Costs Movable Equupment."

MALPRACTICE

. 1. Malpractice is recorded in the Financial Statements
for any of the Institutions.

2. It is added as an expense adjustment for Fringe
Bene?ts on the "Administrative and General" line
in the Cost Report.

3. The total amount for Stroger ACHN and CORE is
$28. 587 318

4. The amount was given to the hospital from
County's Risk Management Department. lt' IS the
actual cost of Malpractice Cases in FY 2007.

- MALPRACTICE (cont'd)

5. $9,529,106 ofthe total Malpracticecosts are 
conSIdered Part or the portion and is
derived from actuarial studies.

6. The amount for Part is entered into a section
where it IS removed from_the Cost Report leaving
iust the Part or Hospital Costs or Malpractice.

7. Oak Forest and Provident do not report any

- Malpractice Costs on their ?led Cost Reports.

INTEREST

1. Bond Interest is not recorded in the Financial
Statements for any of the Institutions.

2. All the amounts of Bond Interest are netted from
any Bond Revenue per CMS instructions.

3. Net Bond Interest in FY 2007 for Stroger is
26,673,414 and oak Forest is $508,452.
4. Provident does not have any Bond Interest.

5. Stroger and Oak Forest add the Bond interest as an
added adjustmentto their Cost Reports under New
Capital Costs Buildings and Fixtures".

PENSION EXPENSE

Pension Expense in FY 2007 for Stroger, ACHN and
CORE is $61.130,708.88. . -

Pension Expense for oak Forest is $12,393,375 and
Provident is $10,277,026.

For all three Hospitals the amount is in the . 
FinanCIal Statements, 0ak_ Forest and Provmlent
the amount IS directly to Employee
Benefits In the cost Report;

Stroger USES a business unit titled "General
Administration" which flows in Administrative
and General" in the C051: Report.

A reclassification is made in the Cost Report from
"BAdgillgistratIve and General" to Employee
en .

ATTACHMENT #7

 

ERP System Selection Update

Finance Committee

Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System

Monday, August 18, 2008

. .

An enterprise resource planning solution

System will support all enti
Move quickly, general financials highest priorit
May include other applications

 

 

End-to-end integrated processes Human

. Resources 

I Integrated 

            

Application-centralized solution
ln-depth financial reporting

 

Business Process

Areas
Asset
Management 

Data entry standardization

Fiexible deployment of
business processes

     
       

 

Minimal data manipulation 

(interfaceS) Purchasing

Management

is

.- K5. 

Decision support, performance management, and human capital management

August 18,2008 A 9

 

Material available
for treatment a. 

 

 

Documentation

WARD, DEPT Material requisition . .
Iota, senaitzeci part-3)

 

.
MM, STORES Purchase Inventory Goods receit I .3209? and - ..
order Reservalion ?en-Stooki?atertela 
Pos?ng
5 Buying via .
Web-Services

 

 

 

 

 

3 August 18, 2008 A 5"

Standard Selection
Process

- Generally includes the following phases:
Organizing the project
Current state assessment/workflows
Future state design determine best of breed functionality list
4 Develop, distribute evaluate RFP responses
Demonstrations
Final Due Diligence, Site Visits
-- Selection and Contract Negotiations

- Best case timeframe 6 months; likely longer for 

- Standard selection process may not be the best for several reasons:

With ERP the ?modular features and functions? must take a back seat to

selecting based on the overall integrated process improvement
objectives

?There are only a few ERP vendors that capture the healthcare market
due to their healthcare capabilities.

?-Enough information may exist to define a very streamlined
process.

 



August 18, 2008 A 

ERP Market Penetration

 

In 2007, HIMSS reported 962 healthcare 
installations

Lawson represented 40.7% or 392 active
implementations

PeopleSoft/Oracle represented 13.6% or 131 active
implementations

SAP represented 11.6% or 112 active implementations

All other active implementations were less than 34.0% of
the total market

. exclusively focused on providing global leadership for the
optimal use of healthcare informatiOn technology (IT) and
. management systems for healthcare.

August 18, 2008 A 

Total Cost of Ownership

(software, hardware, internal staff, professional eve, post-implementation)
Relative TOO/Annual Revenue (.56 -- 1.75)

 

 

Average

Revenue . $2.388 $1.83 $2.988
of client base

 

SUITE) 
Implementation 75% 85% 83% 60%

1 Year Post -
Implementation

2 Year Post 
Implementation

 

 

13RELATIVE 

Average 58% 1.38% 1 .75% 1.27%
Tier 1 (>200M -

er 2nd 3rd 6th . 5th

Tier 2nd 4th 1st 5th 
18! 2008 Source: MetaGroup i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Total Cost of Ownership

(continued The Aberdeen Study 2006, manufacturing
marketplace)

 

Most companies can not measure accurately internal costs, so they
were excluded in the survey of 689 respondents.

Five ERP vendors (lnfor Lawson QAD Oracle and SAP) were
evaluated.

Findings: (only reporting findings of ERP vendors in the healthcare
market

Software cost per user: Lawson is #1 avg #users 195),
SAP $5,995/user, Oracle $4,816/user)

Highest number of modules used: SAP and Lawson tied #1
Most functionality utilized SAP is #1
Cost per percentage point of functionality used: Lawson is #1 -

August 18, 2008 A 

 

Selection Approach

Objective: Quickly select a vendor that can support best practice
ERP processes.

Strategy: Make the vendors do most of the work
Approach: A customized and quick selection approach which may
include the following:

Limit the vendor ?eld. Are there immediate elimination criteria?

Slim down the ?features and functions? highest priority and health care
specific

De?ne business process improvement objectives by module

Ask the vendors to supply their best practice business process redesign
(BPR) ?ow for each business objective.

Once the BPR flow is finalized to support each vendor will
demonstrate their software?s ability to adhere

- A focus on new technologies in place to facilitate the process, the
implementation process and overall cost.

August 18, 2008 A 

ERP Realizations

 

9- lmplementation timeframe: dependent on the business process
redesign but generally one to three years on average. Northwestern

Memorial Hospital 3 years.

- The cost: expensive

TCO figures are the implementation ?gures, ongoing costs need to be
determined

Costs will continue ERP implementation is never done
- Hidden costs

Training Training is high for staff to learn new business processes
along with the new system.

Integration, Testing, Data conversion

Internal and external re_sources_? inte rating your ERP recesses
requrres outsrde expertise and Interna resources must In place to

implement and maintain the ERP processes.

- Recommended implementation approach one module at a time,
financials are usually the first.

.

August 18, 2008 A -

 

1O

ERP Realizations at


Defining our highest priority ERP processes will be difficult due to
lack of standardization.

Our ERP implementation broader than many health systems due to
the breadth of our ambulatory environment. 

Financial Materials Management and Human Resource systems
have historically been provided by Cook County.

As a result, there are NO resources within the IS department to
support this project;

IS resources are already low (71 employees);

Gartner Research: 1 IS FTE per 56 non- IS employees (~7000/56- 
~125 employees)

Analytics: 0.21 IS FTE per staffed bed for facilities with Level 4
EMR adoption (~650 staffed bedS" - ~135 IS employees)

Appropriate staffing >125 IS currently at 50% staffing levels
No training department, few training resources exist

August 18, 2008 A 

 

11

In Conclusion

- A significant one-time and ongoing financial commitment
isrequhed

- External resourcesare required to assist the selection
process.

- Additional resources are required in an entire general
financial/ERP area within IS needs to be formed and
staffed.

- Additional resources are likely required in the user
departments.

- A training department is required.

Thank You

August 18. 2008 A 

