Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, February
28, 2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Lewis M. Collens; Ada Mary
Gugenheim; M. Hill Hammock; Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH;
Carmen Velasquez; and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (9)

Present
Telephonically:

Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez (1)

Absent:

Director Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD (1)

Chairman Carvalho stated that Vice Chairman Ramirez was unable to be physically present, but was able to
participate in the meeting telephonically.
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Hammock, moved to allow Vice Chairman Ramirez
to participate as a voting member for this meeting telephonically. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Vice Chairman Ramirez confirmed his presence telephonically.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply
Chain Management
John Cooke - Cook County Office of Capital
Planning and Policy
John Cookinham – System Chief Financial Officer
Kimbal Goluska – President, Chicago Consultants
Studio, Inc.
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel

II.

Natasha Lafayette-Jones - Director of Health
Information Management
Anthony Rajkumar – System Chief Business
Officer
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical
Integration

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, January 24, 2014
Director Butler, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Board of Directors Meeting of January 24, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 1 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 28, 2014
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
B. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, January 28, 2014
 Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
Director Collens, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of January 28, 2014. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, February 21, 2014
 Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement: Local 399 Operating Engineers - Prevailing Wage Rates
Director Wiese, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of February 21, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, February 21, 2014
 Contracts and Procurement Items (detail was provided as attachment to Board Agenda)
Director Butler, seconded by Director Wiese, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of February 21, 2014. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho abstained and voted PRESENT on request number 1, under the
Contracts and Procurement Items contained within the Minutes.
John Cookinham, System Chief Financial Officer, provided a brief update regarding financial statements. He
noted that they have not been finalized and presented at the last couple of Finance Committee Meetings; there
are several factors involved.
Because the System’s financial statements are accrual-based, Mr. Cookinham’s concern has been that, in the
past, financial statements have been issued, and when the audited statements are published, there are huge
swings because the auditors are forced to make adjustments to report that accrual activity. As an example, in
2014, the System will collect approximately $70 million of per-member per-month (PMPM) revenue that was
earned in 2013 but not received until 2014. $33 million was received in December; $25 million was received in
January; and another $32.5 million was received in February. The dilemma is that he knows that one hundred
percent of what was received in December was 2013 money; January is probably 2013 money, but there will
need to be some sort of examination of the February money, because it could be PMPM money earned for the
December and January periods. The next factor relates to domestic claims, which are the expenses relating to
care provided to the CountyCare patients. Those expenses are in the financial statements, because whether the
patient was identified as a CountyCare patient at the end of November or not, they were cared for in a County
facility. Other expenses that will have to be accrued are the foreign expenses – those expenses are related to
care provided to CountyCare patients by providers in the System’s network; he noted that, as recently as
yesterday, staff is getting the information to finalize those accruals. He added that there will be oversight from
an outside firm to look at the adequacy of the System’s estimates.

Page 2 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 28, 2014
Page 3

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
D. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, February 21, 2014
In response to Director Collens’ question regarding what resources may be needed to have a system that will
generate the information on a timely basis, Mr. Cookinham responded that the System has been receiving
reports from the third party administrator and has input the information into a database at the System. That
activity was at the time new to the System, and he does not anticipate having issues in the future with delays in
that regard. Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, stated that delays in the State’s ability to process and
approve applications were also a factor. He noted that, if the State approves an application four months after it
is submitted, and the patient had services provided during those months, then those providers will go back and
bill the System for that period; he added that the provider has up to one year to submit a claim.
Director Lerner inquired whether there was a plan to create two financial statements – one for the provider
organization and one for the managed care organization. Mr. Cookinham responded that the answer was both
yes and no. He originally planned that there would be a monthly report for CountyCare; the System has not
received sufficient information to be able to do that yet. In addition, anything that CountyCare does under the
System’s current organization has to be incorporated in the System’s financial statements. Following further
discussion, Director Lerner suggested that this is the kind of thing that should be unraveled by the Finance
Committee, to address the following questions: 1) what are the things holding the System back to be able to
monitor this as a managed care operation and as a provider, that then collapse into one set of financials; and 2)
what are the things that will propel the System to be able to monitor this on a regular basis1.
Chairman Carvalho stated that the Finance Committee should receive a refresher session on where the System is
in terms of systems it has and does not have, and regarding the impediments to getting the systems needed to
fully understand and develop financials that are usable in the way that most Directors who have experience in
the private sector have experience with2. It would be beneficial for the Finance Committee to review this
information, so that everyone can be brought up to date on where the System is going and its efforts; for
example, the System had plans and a vendor selected to get an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, but
those plans were put on hold, because the County’s administration also decided to get an ERP system and asked
the System’s administration to wait until the County finished their selection process; that process was expected
to take a couple of years.

E. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, February 25, 2014
 Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
During the presentation of the Minutes, Director Collens indicated that, in the section of the Minutes relating
to the regulatory update, the Minutes should reflect that the hospital was found to have no condition-level
deficiencies.
Director Collens, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of February 25, 2014, as amended. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 3 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 28, 2014
Page 4

IV.

Action Items
A. Proposed reappointments of Hon. John P. Daley and Dr. Robert A. Weinstein to the CORE
Foundation, submitted by Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle for approval by the
CCHHS Board of Directors (Attachment #1)
Director Hammock, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the proposed
reappointments of Hon. John P. Daley and Dr. Robert A. Weinstein to the CORE
Foundation. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Request for authority to execute concurrence with the execution of a contract with The Chicago
Consultants Studio, Inc., Chicago, Illinois (CCS), for program and development management services
for the John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital Campus (Attachment #2)
Chairman Carvalho noted that this request should be amended to reflect that this is a request for concurrence
with the execution of the contract. This is a contract of the County Board; from time to time, contracts like
this are shared with the System Board for its concurrence.
Anthony Rajkumar, System Chief Business Officer, and John Cooke, Director of the Cook County Office of
Capital Planning and Policy, presented the item for the Board’s consideration, and provided an overview of
the matter. Kimbal Goluska, President of Chicago Consultants Studio, Inc., provided additional information.
The Board reviewed and discussed the matter.
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved to concur with the execution of the
contract with Chicago Consultants Studio, Inc.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #3)
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, provided an overview of the request
presented for the Board’s consideration. The Board reviewed and discussed the matter.
Natasha Lafayette-Jones, Director of Health Information Management, provided additional information
regarding the request. She stated that this request is for training and education services relating to the
implementation of the International Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, 10th Revision
(IDC-10); ICD-10 is a code set used to report medical diagnoses and inpatient procedures. The transition
from IDC-9 to ICD-10 has been delayed in the past; however, it has been communicated that the October 1,
2014 transition date is not expected to be delayed.
Director Velasquez recommended that periodic reports should be given on the implementation3. Chairman
Carvalho inquired as to the status of the capacity of System coders. Mr. Cookinham responded that the
System has acquired software to try to increase their productivity. The initial estimates of the loss of
productivity for coders due to the transition to ICD-10 is in the range of fifty percent; because of the
complexity of ICD-10, there is software available that helps them in their job, and that was to restore a
portion of that productivity loss.

Page 4 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 28, 2014
Page 5

IV.

Action Items
C. Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Ms. Lafayette-Jones stated that the administration is working on a number of initiatives relating to the
coding aspect of ICD-10. Training has been put in place and has been ongoing for the last year to train up
the current staff; that training includes in-person and web-based training. Additionally, the administration is
currently reviewing the matter of staffing to ensure that the current staffing is augmented by contracted
services that can provide the same level of coding accuracy that is required.
Director Butler, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved the approval of request number 1.
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

E. Proposed appointment of Dr. John Jay Shannon to the CORE Foundation, submitted by Cook County
Board President Toni Preckwinkle for approval by the CCHHS Board of Directors (Attachment #4)
Director Hammock, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the proposed
appointment of Dr. John Jay Shannon to the CORE Foundation. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
A.

Board Education – Charity Care Update (Attachment #5)
Mr. Cookinham reviewed the information provided regarding charity care.
discussed the information.

The Board reviewed and

Referring to information contained in Mr. Cookinham’s presentation, Director Velasquez suggested that,
instead of using the term “free” care, “uncompensated” care should be used.
Chairman Carvalho suggested that, at a future Finance Committee Meeting, a discussion should be held
regarding what should be done with regard to those people who are eligible for CountyCare but refuse to
enroll in it – does the System provide the deep discounts that the person would receive under the CareLink
Policy4? Right now the policy is to extend the discount under CareLink to persons who are eligible for
CountyCare but who refuse to enroll in it or in Medicaid.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #6)
A.

The Path to Transformation: State of Illinois 1115 Waiver Proposal
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: CountyCare Section 1115 Medicaid Waiver
Demonstration Project/Managed Care; Clinical Update; Patient Portal; Leadership Development Program;
and Recognition of Employees. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.

Page 5 of 36

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 28, 2014
Page 6

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (continued)
Additionally, Dr. Raju provided a brief overview of the Path to Transformation: State of Illinois 1115
Waiver Proposal. Chairman Carvalho noted that additional information on the subject can be found on the
State’s website.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
B. Discussion of personnel matters
C. Recruitment of Permanent Chief Executive Officer for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Butler, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public
body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an
action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending
before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and
entered into the minutes of the closed meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(12), regarding “the
establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as provided in the Local Governmental
and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, if otherwise the disposition of a claim
or potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk
management information, records, data, advice or communications from or with respect
to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental risk management association
or self insurance pool of which the public body is a member,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(17),
regarding “the recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of physicians
or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other institution providing medical
care, that is operated by the public body.”
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call
was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Collens,
Gugenheim, Hammock, Lerner, Muñoz, Velasquez and Wiese (10)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Director Morris (1)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Carvalho declared that the closed session was adjourned.
reconvened into regular session.

Page 6 of 36

The Board

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, February 28, 2014
Page 7

VIII. Adjourn
Director Collens, seconded by Director Wiese, moved to adjourn the meeting. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

1

Follow-up: request for Finance Committee to address the following questions: 1) what are the things holding the
System back to be able to monitor this as a managed care operation and as a provider, that then collapse
into one set of financials; and 2) what are the things that will propel the System to be able to monitor this
on a regular basis. Page 3.

2

Follow-up: recommendation for Finance Committee to receive a refresher session on where the System is in terms of
systems it has and does not have, and regarding the impediments to getting the systems needed. Page 3.

3

Follow-up: recommendation that periodic reports be given on the implementation of ICD-10. Page 4.

4

Follow-up: for future Finance Committee Meeting, request that a discussion be held regarding what should be done
with regard to those people who are eligible for CountyCare but refuse to enroll in it. Page 5.

Page 7 of 36

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
February 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 8 of 36

  

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY

IIB NORTH CLARK STREET
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(312.) 603-6400
TDD (312) 603-5255

TONI PRECKWINKLE

PRESIDENT

January 31, 2014

Chairman and Members of the

Cook County Health Hospitals System Board of Directors
1900 West Polk Street, Suite 220

Chicago, Illinois 60612

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Please be advised that I hereby reappoint the Honorable John P. Daley to the CORE Foundation
for a three (3) year term to begin immediately and expire December 31, 2016.

submit this communication for your approval.

Sincerely,
Toni Preckwinkle
President

 

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 



 

OFFICE. OF THE PRESIDENT

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF COOK COUNTY

?8 NORTH CLARK STREET
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60602
(312) 603-6400
TDD (SIZ) 603-5253

TONI PRECKWINKLE

DENT

January 31, 2014

Chairman and Members of the

Cook County Health Hospitals System Board of Directors
1900 West Polk Street, Suite 220

Chicago, Illinois 60612

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Please be advised that I hereby reappoint Robert A. Weinstein, MD. to the CORE Foundation
for a three (3) year term to begin immediately and expire December 31, 2016.

submit this communication for your approval.

Sincerely,

Toni Preckwinkle
President

 

APPROVED 

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 

 

glassware?

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
February 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 11 of 36

 Item IV(B)
February 28, 2014 CCHHS Board of Directors Agenda

Requesting authority to execute a contract with The Chicago Consultants Studio, Inc.,
Chicago, Illinois (CCS), for program and development management services. CCS is
being procured via reference contract for the Illinois Medical District (IMD) Urban and
Land Use Planning and Consulting Services Agreement.
Reason:

This contract provides for a strategic program manager for the John H.
Stroger Hospital Campus. These services will provide the professional
services needed to assess the Stroger Campus, prepare an overall
strategic development framework to successfully guide the process,
undertake the conceptual programmatic analysis of both core needs and
excess real estate opportunities. This will translate into a master
development program for two master developer RFP offerings. The
consultant will manage those RFP processes through County selection
and engagement of developers.

This is a joint project undertaken by the Office of Capital Planning and Policy and the
Cook County Hospital. This is categorized as a programming for a redevelopment
project.
Contract Term: 14 month base with one three month extension, commencing on the
date of Cook County Board approval.
Estimated Fiscal Impact:

CCHHS none
OCPP $2,408,000

Stroger Campus Development

Page 12 of 36

 COOK COUNTY
STROGER CAMPUS

Strategic Program & Development
Management
Process Summary

February 2014

Office of Capital Planning and Policy
Bureau of Economic Development

The Chicago Consultants Studio, Inc.

CCS February 2014 All Rights Reserved

Page 13 of 36

 OBJECTIVES
•  Solve for CCHHS’ core needs at Stroger Campus
AND identify potentials for redevelopment of
available real estate
•  Translate into master development programs that
envision a broader, vibrant mixed-use campus for
Cook County and the community
•  Issue RFPs to the marketplace for master developers
•  Conclude with project implementation - two master
developers to enhance the campus by leveraging
inherent value and creating revenue for the County

2   

Page 14 of 36

 STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
STROGER CAMPUS – ENHANCEMENTS AND VALUE CREATION

3   

Page 15 of 36

 WITHIN THE FIRST 90 DAYS:
S T R AT E G I C C A M P U S D E V E L O P M E N T P L A N



BY MID-SUMMER:
CCHHS CORE NEEDS MASTER DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM
CAMPUS COMMERCIAL ENHANCEMENTS MASTER
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
C O L L A B O R AT I V E P U B L I C E N V I R O N S I M P R O V E M E N T S
R E C O M M E N D A T I O N S

B Y L AT E - S U M M E R : 
LAUNCH RFQ/PS FOR MASTER DEVELOPERS

PROJECTS UNDERWAY BY SPRING 2015 
4   

Page 16 of 36

 PROCESS / MILESTONE HIGHLIGHTS
•  Utilizes and builds upon all prior work with focus now on definition,
implementation and execution of real developments
•  Strategic Campus Development Plan within first 90 days
-  Establishes critical “road map” for development and solicitations
-  Addresses core needs: admin office, clinic, parking; campus ingress/
egress
-  Addresses revenue and value potentials: old CC, vacant land, Pasteur
Park retail infill, hotel, housing, dorms, office, special uses, etc.)

•  Unique charrette process in early summer engages international
attention and expertise on old Cook County structure and builds
positive developer/investor awareness and interest
•  Issuance of Master Developer RFPs by late summer
•  Engage stakeholders, CCHHS leadership, and County leadership
intensively throughout the process
5   

Page 17 of 36

 PROJECT LEADERSHIP
The Chicago Consultants Studio, will serve as the lead
Strategic Program and Development Manager bringing
successful experience in similar urban redevelopment efforts
creating value and aggressively realizing new projects:
-  The recently opened redevelopment of Harper Court in Hyde Park
ultimately totaling $250M and 1.1M sf of retail, commercial hotel and
neighborhood amenities
-  The South Hall expansion and West Hall expansion of McCormick
Place 
-  The strategic development advisor for the IMDC on the restructured
Gateway Site RFP
-  Worldwide redevelopment experience both large and small scale
ranging from London’s 12.5M sf Canary Wharf to Puerto Rico’s
Roosevelt Roads Naval Base to CHA’s Lake Park Crescent
-  Recognized in both the private and public sectors as one of Chicago’s
most talented and creative strategic urban development professionals 
6   

Page 18 of 36

 A DIVERSE

AND

TALENTED TEAM

•  >35% MBE/WBE utilization across all disciplines
•  100% of the sub consultant team comprised of minority owned
and/or women owned businesses
-  Neal and Leroy (MBE): Development Zoning, Entitlement and Strategic
Legal Consultation
-  Applied Real Estate Analysis, Inc (MBE/WBE): Market Analysis and
Economic Feasibility 
-  Brook Architecture (MBE/WBE) and Nia Architects (MBE):
Programming and Technical Feasibility
-  Cotter Consulting (WBE): Medical Programming and Capital Costing
-  Prism Engineering (MBE): Traffic, Circulation and Parking Analysis 
-  Target Group: Community Engagement, Outreach & Economic Benefit 
-  Tristan & Cervantes (MBE): Project Advocacy (Lobbyist)

7   

Page 19 of 36

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
February 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 20 of 36

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(C) 
FEBRUARY 28, 2014 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS
Request 
#

Vendor

Service or Product

Begins 
Fiscal impact not  Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#
to exceed:

Extend and Increase Contract
1

The Olenik Consulting 
Group, LLC

Service ‐ ICD‐10 training and education

Page 21 of 36

$641,250.00  System

2

 Cook County Health Hospitals System

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

   
  

EXECUTIVE souson: 
John Cookinham, System Chief lOf?cer

  
   

WSPONSOR:
Natasha Lafayette?Jones, System Director Health

   
  

   
 

 

    
    

 

    
    

 

 

        
    

 

      
 

Information Management 

DATE: PRODUCT I SERVICE:

02/05/2014 . Service - ICU-10 Training and Education

TYPE OF REQUEST: SUPPLIERK 

Extend and Increase Contract The Olenik Consulting Group. LLC, Chicago. IL

ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT FUNDED I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
890-260 $641,250.00 

CONTRACT CONTRACT NUMBER:

03/01/2014 thru 11/30/2014 H13-25-016

 
 

 

 

 
  

COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

 

   

NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
Sole Source

 

 
 

 

 

.X

  

 

 
 
  

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:

. in wear/mum of $357,100.00 for a period from 03/01/2013 thru 02/28/2014. The contract allowed. The Olenik
Consulting Group, LLC to provide consulting and project assistance in preparation for the transition to coding. 

 
     
     
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
Effective in 2014 the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) will require all providers to be using 1
The Olenik Group will provide project management, physician education, documentation review and coder

. anatomy/physiology and MDC training.

      
 
    

This Prequestris'to?eittend and increase contract number H13-25-016 in an amount not to exceed $641,250.00, as
needed, for the period from 03/01/2014 thru 11/30/2014.

 
      

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT 

at. 21w 

Anthony Rajkuma?'Chiy?f Bu as weer
f.

   

it!? if? 

    
 
   

 

 
 

I MD, tve BYBOARDOF
am ief I (?ice DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

 
 

 

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

  
 

 

 

Request 

 
 

- Ambulatory 8; Community Health Network 0 Cerrnak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County 0 Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital - Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01/201 1

Page 22 of 36

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
February 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 23 of 36

  

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS COOK COUNTY
ne non-m cum STREET
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 00602
(a I 2) 003-0400
1-00 (312) 003-5255

TONI PRECKWINKLE
Illusion"

February 25, 2014

Chairman and Members of the

Cook County Health Hospitals System Board of Directors
1900 West Polk Street, Suite 220

Chicago, Illinois 60612

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Please be advised that I hereby appoint John Jay Shannon, MD. to the CORE Foundation for a
three (3) year term to begin immediately and to expire on December 31, 2016.

I submit this communication for your approval.

Sincerely,

Toni Preckwinkle
President
Cook County Board of Commissioners

 

if (5 it?

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

P?nwdonRecycledPlpu
Page 24 of 36

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
February 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 25 of 36

 Financial Counseling In 2014 at


Financial Counseling 2014
• As of January 1st all Illinois hospitals were 
required to perform a financial screening prior to 
q
p
gp
billing uninsured patients.
• CCHHS had in the past approached financial 
screening and counseling on a retro‐active basis.  
S lf
Self pay patients were billed and encouraged to 
i
bill d d
d
apply for Medicaid or CareLink if they were 
unable to pay for their services
unable to pay for their services.
• CCHHS
CCHHS now performs screening at the point of 
now performs screening at the point of
registration.  
Page 27 of 36

2

 Financial Counseling 2014
Financial Counseling 2014
• Cerner
Cerner has been modified to produce a screening 
has been modified to produce a screening
document from registration information. This 
form will meet State requirements.  Demographic 
q
g p
information will populate the form at registration.
• Patients will be asked to indicate whether they 
believe they are eligible for uncompensated care
believe they are eligible for uncompensated care 
because they meet State mandated criteria.

3
Page 28 of 36

 Financial Counseling 2014
g
• Patients will be asked to sign the new form and the 
form will be scanned into the system.  The patient will 
y
p
also be provided a copy of the form.  If patients at the 
point of registration can supply proof of their eligibility 
for uncompensated care the system information will
for uncompensated care the system information  will 
be adjusted and a discount provided.
• If patients believe they are eligible for uncompensated 
care, but do not have their documentation at 
registration they will sign the form The signed form
registration they will sign the form.  The signed form 
will be scanned into the system and the patient can 
return the required information by mail, e‐mail, or fax 
to obtain the discount.
4
Page 29 of 36

 Financial Counseling 2014
Financial Counseling 2014
• Patients have 90 days to qualify for a discount on their 
y
q
y
CCHHS service.  They are encouraged to make an 
appointment with the financial counselors to see what 
assistance is available to them
assistance is available to them.
• The
The Cerner system has been updated to produce work 
Cerner system has been updated to produce work
lists of the uninsured patients.  The work lists will be 
used by CCHHS financial counselors to reach out to the 
patients to encourage them to apply for HUPDA
patients to encourage them to apply for HUPDA, 
Medicaid, CountyCare, or CareLink.

5
Page 30 of 36

 Financial Counseling 2014
Financial Counseling 2014
• If patients do not apply for financial assistance at 
p
pp y
the end of 90 days they will receive a bill from 
CCHHS.
• After patients receive a bill they are still able to 
seek financial assistance and apply for HUPDA,
seek financial assistance and apply for HUPDA, 
Medicaid, CountyCare, or CareLink.
• The self pay bills will direct patients to seek help 
from the financial counselors by calling the phone 
number on the bill
number on the bill.
6
Page 31 of 36

 Financial Counseling 2014
Financial Counseling 2014
• Patients that do not seek financial counseling 
may receive up to three self pay statements If
may receive up to three self pay statements.  If 
the patients fail to seek assistance their account 
may be placed with a collection agency
may be placed with a collection agency.
• The
The CCHHS financial assistance program has been 
CCHHS financial assistance program has been
adjusted to cover self pay amounts for Cook 
County residents In the past the program only
County residents.  In the past the program only 
addressed uninsured patients.  It will now assist 
under‐insured
under
insured patients too.
patients too
7
Page 32 of 36

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
February 28, 2014

ATTACHMENT #6

Page 33 of 36

  

00K COUNTY HEALTH
HOSPITALS 

OHHS

RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

February 28, 2014

 

COUNTYCARE
SECTION 1115 MEDICAID WAIVER DEMONSTRATION CARE

CountyCare continues to operate under a temporary extension of its 1115 Waiver achieving significant
accomplishments in enrollment and membership once again this month. As previously reported, the 
Federal Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS) granted the State of a 90-day
temporary extension of the CountyCare waiver.

As of this week over 141,000 CountyCare applications have been started, of which more than 113,000
have been submitted to the State of Department of Human Services (DHS) for processing with
more than 81,000 approved CountyCare members.

Achieving this level of market penetration in only one year is a phenomenal accomplishment, and one
that could not have been achieved without the support and hard work ofthis Board, President
Preckwinkle, the County Board Commissioners, staff and our extensive network of vendors and
app assistors. This success demonstrates that The Affordable Care Act is working and making a
difference for a significant number of people and their families in Cook County today, and for years to
come.

CLINICAL UPDATE

Leadership Rounds for Patient Safety
Safety is a critical and ongoing component of providing quality care to our patients. Several months ago,
a Culture of Safety survey was conducted to better understand and improve safety practices. As an
outgrowth of that survey the Leadership Rounding for Patient Safety Program has been established. The
program is designed to develop a collaborative culture of safety for patients and associates. The goals of
the program are to promote open and honest communication, understand barriers to patient safety and
encourage reporting of safety events to drive system-wide improvement.

Senior Leadership has begun conducting Leadership Rounds for Patient Safety throughout the

entire system. Many healthcare systems conduct Leadership Rounds for Patient Safety and are utilized
to help leadership understand and address issues day-to-day demands faced by frontline staff.

Page 34 of 36

PATIENT PORTAL

new patient portal, MyCookCountyHealth officially launched this past Monday, February 24,
2014. In the first four days, 3,225 emails have been collected of which 225 patients have created
profiles and are now able to securely access their medical information.

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

While the first cohort of the University's Leadership Development Program graduated on
December 17, 2013 the group continues to participate in Lunch Learn sessions. On February 11th Dr.
Goodman, CEO of Rush University Medical Center and several members of his leadership team (COO,
CNO and Head of ED) presented on lessons they learned implementing programs related to improving
the patient experience.

Preparations are underway for the second cohort; the next session is scheduled to begin April 1, 2014
and conclude June 17, 2014. Applications are currently available on-line. The application process closes
Monday, March 3, 2014.

New to the upcoming session several members from the first cohort will serve as Mentors for the
second cohort, the curriculum will include a module on Quality and Safety and the addition of a
speaker/presenter to discuss "Managing a Diverse Workforce?.

Many thanks to the Civic Consulting Alliance and Strategic Talent Solutions - great pro-bono partners in
developing the program and facilitating the first cohort. The sustainability of the program now rests
with our Human Resources team.

NOTEWORTHY

On Thursday, March 6, 2014 at 9:00pm, CNN will begin airing its new documentary called Chicagoland.
The Stroger Hospital Trauma Unit will be featured in several episodes.

RECOGNITION

Dr. Courtney Hollowell, Chairman, Department of Urology
One of the riches of our health and hospital system is the dedication of our physicians and employees to
our patients and communities.

Today I want to recognize Dr. Courtney Hollowell, our chairman of I am not asking you today
to direct your attention to his leadership of our excellent programs in surgery, patient care, teaching and
Rather, today, I want us to applaud his voluntary leadership role in community health. Dr.
Hollowell was named one of Black Entertainment Television?s 28 Men of Change during African
American History Month and joins an impressive list of men including Forrest Whitaker, Steve Harvey
and Quincy Jones.

3 Page

Page 35 of 36

COOK COUNTY 
I 

   

Both inside and beyond the operating room, this humble surgeon goes the distance to improve men?s health in
our community.

 

?To whom much is given even more is expected" are the early memories of the encouraging words my father would say
sitting on the edge of my bed while I fell asleep at night. No dream was too big as i saw myself as a future astronaut,
nuclear physicist, engineer or even surgeon. We were taught that dreaming wasn't the problem, but to have never tried
was. Growing up in Detroit, the sixth of seven children, my mother watched over us like a hawk. She gave us a good
example of a loving, caring environment from which anything was possible. My father is a well-respected physician who
broke racial barriers in medicine decades ago. I grew up watching his example, as he treated Detroit's underserved
patients and mentored others rising in his wake. It was through his example that I became the man I am today.

It was my father who taught me that philanthropy is not just about giving money??it's about giving of one?s self. It?s about
lifting up and reaching out.

When I decided to become a surgeon, it was not only because I wanted to make a difference. I became a surgeon
because I loved science and the challenge of life-long learning. But soon I realized that with the gift of healing hands
came a great responsibility to make the world better, one person, one family, one community at a time.

Recently, a mother and her son came to me at Chicago's Cook County Hospital where I'm the Chief of Urology. She?d
been told by several doctors that her son, who ignored his for some time, had inoperable cancer. But she
refused to give up on him. Desperate for a second opinion, she asked me to review his case, and in the end, I decided to
operate. When I was able to look her in the and say, ?We were able to get it all," I was reminded of the power to
change lives through the blessing of science.

It is unacceptable that many men wait until something is seriously wrong before going to the doctor. Recognizing that
health begins long before anyone steps into a doctor's office, I developed the Men?s Health Initiative to promote wellness,
prevention and the understanding of common health conditions. Through innovative community health programing, men
learn the importance of health care instead of sick care. With the help of strong community partnerships, see a day
where men aren?t being dragged into doctor?s offices by their loved ones. Instead, they are taking pro-active control of
their well-being, and serving as an example for their partners, children and communities.

ln addition to our Men's Health Initiative, I am most proud of what we have been able to do to affect the future of medicine.
With our Tomorrow?s Doctors program we are working to expose our youth to the possibilities of medicine as a career. I
am haping that we can inspire the magic of medicine in the minds of underrepresented children. With the right
encouragement and exposure, the door of possibilities can be opened, making today's children ?tomorrow's doctors."

On the frontlines of ?ghting cancer, Dr. Courtney Hollowell is a physician and the Chairman of Urology for the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System. Dr. Hollowell has published numerous articles in peer-reviewed journals and is
nationally recognized as an expert in urologic oncology (Prostate, Kidney, Bladder, Penile, and Testicular Cancer),
genitourinary trauma/reconstructive surgery and men?s health issues.

As posted: 

Page 36 of 36

