REPORT OF THE
HUMAN RESOURCES CONIMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

January 23, 2009
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; and
Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM (4)

Absent: Director Jorge Ramirez (1)
Also Present: Director Hon. Jerry Butler

Sandra Ankebrant Chief Operating Of?cer, Ambulatory and Community Health
Network of Cook County; Cecil Marchand - Associate Administrator, Stroger
Hospital of Cook County; John M. Raba, MD - Interim Chief Medical Of?cer, Cook
County Health and Hospitals System; Elizabeth Reidy Deputy Chief, Civil Actions
Bureau, Office of the State's Attorney; Deborah Santana Office of the Secretary to
the Board, Cook County Board of Commissioners; David R. Small Interim Chief
Executive Officer, Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Joseph Sova Chief,
Cook County Bureau of Human Resources; Sidney Thomas Chief Operating
Of?cer, Provident Hospital of Cook County

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
met pursuant to notice on Friday, January 23, 2009 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W.
Harrison Street, in the fifth ?oor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Human Resources Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Roll Call

Deborah Santana, of the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll
of members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

 

Update and discussion of pending information requests

Chairman Zopp reviewed the information requests that were pending. She stated that an item will be on the
March agenda with regard to reviewing the issue of stipends received in the course of performing work-related
duties, presented by Dr. Raba. Additionally, she stated that an item will be on the April agenda with regard to
the Dilvzersity Council, presented by Dr. Enrique Martinez and David Small, System Interim Chief Executive
Of?ce

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

January 23, 2009

PAGE 2

Mr. Small provided the Committee with the vacancy status report. With regard to the information
presented, Chairman Zopp noted that a breakdown on the status of the request to hires was expected to be
received.

Chairman Zopp requested that the Committee electronically receive the draft position descriptions for the
following positions: head of the System?s press relations, Chief Legal Of?cer, and System Chief Financial
Officer. She indicated that these would be on the February 20, 2009 Human Resources Committee meeting
Agenda for review and approvals. .

 

Discussion and approval of contract extension for staff suppert for Strategic Planning Committee

Chairman Zopp stated that a contractual individual has been providing support to the Strategic Planning Group;
the end ofthat contract period is nearing, however, additional assistance is needed from this individual.

Mr. Small stated that rather than extend the contract, the individual could be temporarily placed in a position on
a part-time basis, to ?ll that need for staff support. He added that it was expected that the individual would be in
the position for approximately six months.

 

Update on management review of personnel policies

Chairman Zopp stated that Mr. Small had a team headed up by Sandra Ankebrant, Chief Operating Of?cer of
the Ambulatory and Community Health Network of Cook County, to work on the management review of the
personnel policies.

Ms. Ankebrant provided a summary of the review. The Committee reviewed the information, and discussed a
plan to review their recommendations.

Chairman Zopp stated that for the next meeting, the group of suggestions for policy changes that are relatively
simple should be presented?l. At the following meeting, the Committee can address the more complicated
recommended policy changess.

 

Discussion of Personnel Matters.

Update oniabor negotiations.

Chairman Zopp,'seconded by Director Lyne, moved to recess the regular session and convene into closed
session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et seq., which permits
closed meetings for consideration of ?collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of
employees,? and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 1203(e)(1), which permits
closed meetings for consideration of ?the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of speci?c employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body,
including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against
legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity." THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

January 23, 2009

PAGE 3

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular seasion. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Miscellaneous

Chairman Zopp stated that due to a scheduling issue, the scheduled meeting of the Human Resources Committee
of Friday, February 6, 2009 will be cancelled. Therefore, the next meeting of the Human Resources Committee
- will be on Friday, February 20, 2009._

 

Miscellaneous

Director Golden requested information relating to staf?ng models for Surgery at John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of
Cook County, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County, and Provident Hospital of Cook County.

 

Public Comments

Chairman Zopp asked the Secretary to call upon any registered public speakers.

Ms. Santana responded that there were none.

 

Adjournment

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

submitted,
Human Resources Committee ofthe
Board ofD' tors of the

Cook Co ty 1-?h and Hospitals System
Ms. A?'drea L. Zop?Wbirman
Attest: 



Mathew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARDOFDHGITORSOFTHECOOKCOUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

January 23, 2009

PAGE4

 

The following was requested or was indicated as a follow-up item at this meeting:

or March Agenda, an item will be presented by Dr. Raba with regard to reviewing the issue of stipends
received in the course of performing work~related duties. On page 1.

2 For April Agenda, an item will be presented by Dr. Enrique Martinez with regard to the Diversity Council. On
page I.

3 For February 20, 2009 Agenda: review and approve draft position descriptions for the following positions:
head of the System?s press relations, Chief Legal Officer, and System Chief Financial Officer. On page 2.

4 For February 20, 2?09 Agenda: regarding recommendations for personnel policy changes: the group of
suggestions for policy changes that are relatively simple should be presented. On page 2.

For March 6, 2009 Agenda: regarding recommendations for personnel policy changes: the Committee will
address the more complicated recommended policy changes. On page 2.

