Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Thursday, May 21, 2015 at the hour of 8:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Velasquez called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Carmen Velasquez and Directors Emilie N. Junge and Ada Mary Gugenheim (3)
Gerald Bauman (non-Director Member)

Present
Telephonically: Board Chairman M. Hill Hammock (ex-officio)
Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – Chief Corporate Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Douglas Elwell – Deputy Chief Executive Officer,
Strategy and Finance
Angela Espinosa – System Director of Health
Management Services

II.

Randolph Johnston – Associate General Counsel
Pat Kitchen – McGladrey LLP
Ryan Lipinski – CountyCare Compliance Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – Director of Internal Audit

Public Speakers
Chairman Velasquez asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.
\

III.

Report from Director of Internal Audit
A. Update on Hektoen Institute of Medicine
Tom Schroeder, Director of Internal Audit, provided a brief update on the Hektoen Institute of Medicine. He
stated that Hektoen is the fiscal administrative agent for some grants for the System; there are grants received
primarily in two places – within the Stroger Campus and at the Cook County Department of Public Health.
Hektoen primarily administers the grants for the Stroger Campus.
Two documents were provided to the Committee in relation to Hektoen. The first is an external audit of
Hektoen’s financial statements for the period ending August 31, 2014. He stated that this is a clean audit report;
there were no issues raised. He noted that, on their balance sheet, under the liabilities section, there is a line that
states “Due to Cook County Health and Hospitals System”; as of August 31, 2014, that amount was slightly more
than $6 million. What that represents is funds that belong to CCHHS; that is for monies for reimbursement of
primarily employee time that was spent performing under the grants. There are policies and procedures around
the parameters under which those funds can be used; the funds are primarily used by physicians to further the
mission of the System.

Page 1 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, May 21, 2015
Page 2

III.

Report from Director of Internal Audit (continued)
With regard to the other document provided to the Committee, this pertains to the audit of Hektoen’s Federal
Awards; in the grant portfolio that they manage for CCHHS there are a number of grants that come via federal
agencies (example: National Institute of Health). The federal government requires that federal grants be audited
by an independent accounting firm; there are a number of requirements that determine the depth and extent to
which the grants are reviewed. With respect to this audit, there were no comments, and it was clean with respect
to the internal controls around the accounting and financial reporting for the grants. Compliance was deemed to
be without exceptions, as well.
Every year, these audits are performed and are brought to this Committee. In prior years, Internal Audit has
conducted additional internal audits diving into the issues that were of more specific concern, primarily around
those dollars that are due to CCHHS and the use of those funds.

IV.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (Attachment #1)
Cathy Bodnar, Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer, reviewed the information contained in her
report; the report provided an overview of the current Corporate Compliance controls of the CountyCare
Health Plan. Ryan Lipinski, CountyCare Compliance Officer, reviewed the information relating to
grievances and appeals. The Committee discussed the information.
With regard to the Fraud, Waste and Abuse investigation metrics included on slide 9 of the presentation,
Board Chairman Hammock inquired whether cases are carried over from quarter to quarter; he noted that, if
they are, there should be an additional metric that reflects the number of cases that were carried over to the
next quarter. Ms. Bodnar responded affirmatively; she indicated that the metric for this will be included in
future presentations.
Following the review of the information contained in the report, Ms. Bodnar provided updates on some
follow-up matters.
Ms. Bodnar stated that Corporate Compliance learned that IlliniCare’s Medical Director, Dr. Neal Scharma,
was arrested in March; IlliniCare is the System’s third party administrator for CountyCare. A criminal
complaint was filed against Dr. Scharma alleging the receipt of illegal remunerations; the complaint alleges
specifically that he received money from a company in exchange for directing enrollees to that company. It
was learned quickly that this activity did not involve CountyCare or any of its members or providers; it
allegedly took place completely outside of the County of Cook. However, it was Corporate Compliance’s
responsibility to assess IlliniCare’s process in responding to and evaluating the situation. On the day of his
arrest, Dr. Scharma was placed on administrative leave. All access to any of IlliniCare’s systems, including
any of the CountyCare systems, was disabled and he was denied entry into the premises. An independent law
firm was immediately engaged to investigate the allegations; on April 20th Dr. Scharma was terminated from
IlliniCare for gross misconduct. Corporate Compliance reviewed the onboarding process at IlliniCare; their
process included securing financial disclosures, credit checks, employment references, criminal background
checks and licensure verifications, in addition to the routine interviews that are conducted for onboarding.
She also understands that there are processes in place to monitor the Medical Director’s time. Right now,
based on the information gathered, Corporate Compliance feels confident that IlliniCare has the appropriate
processes in place; she noted that there are some areas that they could strengthen that they have addressed
with IlliniCare, but this did not affect CountyCare. It did affect IlliniCare, and IlliniCare does have processes
in place to address something like this happening. This does not appear to be an issue with IlliniCare as a
whole, it appears to be an issue of an individual working alone.

Page 2 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, May 21, 2015
Page 3

IV.

Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (continued)
On a separate matter, Ms. Bodnar stated that, at the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting last
month, Dr. John O’Brien, Director of Professional Education, talked about resident activity and cap sharing
agreements. There were some questions that arose after that meeting, so Corporate Compliance reviewed the
matter. It was determined that Stroger Hospital may enter into resident cap sharing arrangements and
redistribute its residents to affiliated hospitals. That is absolutely appropriate. Rules and regulations are
silent as to whether or not a hospital can receive payment from another hospital, or within a group, when it is
transferring those unused resident slots; that silence is not interpreted as prohibitive.

V.

Action Items
A. Proposed revisions to CCHHS Conflict of Interest Policy (Attachment #2)
Ms. Bodnar presented the proposed revisions to the CCHHS Conflict of Interest Policy.
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to approve the proposed
revisions to the CCHHS Conflict of Interest Policy. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, March 19, 2015
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to accept the minutes of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of March 19, 2015. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections V and VI

VI.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Discussion of preliminary draft FY2014 CCHHS Audited Financial Statements with external auditors
B. Report from Director of Internal Audit
C. Report from Chief Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer
D. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Director Gugenheim, seconded by Director Junge, moved to recess the open meeting
and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois
Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the
public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for
the public body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(29), regarding
“meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental audit committees,
finance committees, and their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal
control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected
frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards of the United States of America.”
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 3 of 28

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee
Thursday, May 21, 2015
Page 4

VI.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Chairman Velasquez declared that the closed meeting was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into the open meeting.

VII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Velasquez declared that the meeting was
ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Carmen Velasquez, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 4 of 28

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
May 21, 2015

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 5 of 28

 Page 6 of 28

May 21 2015
May 21, 2015

Corporate Compliance Report

AUDIT & COMPLIANCE 
COMMITTEE OF THE CCHHS
COMMITTEE OF THE CCHHS 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 Page 7 of 28

2

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Follow Up on Matters Raised by the Board

Examine Current Corporate Compliance Controls of 
the CountyCare Health Plan through
the CountyCare Health Plan through,
CountyCare Oversight Meetings
Grievances and Appeals Monitoring
Grievances and Appeals Monitoring
Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Activity

Meeting Objectives

 Page 8 of 28

3

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Eighteen (18) Committees have been established to ensure 
p p
proper oversight and monitoring of CountyCare’s operations, 
g
g
y
p
,
policies and compliance with contractual terms.

CountyCare Oversight Structure

 Page 9 of 28

4

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Provides a mechanism for Members to file complaints or 
Providers to file appeals when a request for a medical item or 
service is denied by CountyCare.
Allows for tracking of grievances and appeals by category, 
volume and resolution
volume and resolution.
Contributes to identify program improvement opportunities, 
which may reduce the issues that prompt grievances and 
appeals.
Represents a primary mechanism for CCHHS Corporate 
Compliance and CountyCare operations to exercise oversight
Compliance and CountyCare operations to exercise oversight 
of the third party administrator (TPA) and other vendor 
operations.

Grievances & Appeals Process

 Page 10 of 28

5

Q1 Total = 60
CC Mbrs = 88,894

56

4
111

Q2 Total = 118
Q3 Total = 175
CC Mbrs = 96,618 CC Mbrs = 179,393

55

47

16

50

13

1

Q4

July 2014 – June 2015

State Fiscal Year

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Grievances

Appeals

Expedited
Appeals

External
Independent Review
Independent Review

Fair
Hearing

Grievances & Appeals Metrics

 Page 11 of 28

6

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Achieved by establishing:
o Training programs for CountyCare employees, vendors, 
gp g
y
p y ,
,
and subcontractors.
o Defining methods to identify, prevent, review and initiate 
corrective actions against any Provider/Member suspected
corrective actions against any Provider/Member suspected 
of participating in Fraud, Waste, and/or Abuse (FWA) 
activities.
o Developing policies and procedures, including outlining the 
workflow to be followed in the event that a potential issue 
or overpayment is identified.
o Reporting identified issues, including 
referrals to state and local authorities.

The Goal: To protect the member in the delivery of healthcare 
services through timely detection, investigation and prosecution.

Fraud, Waste and Abuse Program

 Page 12 of 28

7

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

o Local and National Conferences;
o CCHHS annual education to incorporate FWA training.
CCHHS annual education to incorporate FWA training

attendees: CountyCare staff, third party administrator 
(IlliniCare) compliance staff CCHHS staff with oversight
(IlliniCare) compliance staff, CCHHS staff with oversight, 
Cook County Office of Inspector General (OIIG)

Initial onboarding for staff and providers.
CountyCare workforce training includes:
y
g
o Focused HFS OIG FWA in‐person training;

FWA Training

 Page 13 of 28

8

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Define a cohesive process across all delegated vendors with 
centralized reporting to Corporate Compliance and hold vendors 
accountable.
Monitor Payment Integrity and Special Investigations Unit 
Activities.
Activities
Develop an annual work plan focusing on vulnerable 
areas/services.  
F
For example, the 2015 work plan includes,
l th 2015
k l i l d
o Adult Day Services;
o Transportation;
o High Cost Drugs;
o Hospice;
o Home & Community Based Waiver Programs;
o Flexibility to respond to emerging issues.

FWA Methods

 Page 14 of 28

9

Q2 Total = 5
Q2 Total = 5
Providers* = 318
Mbr = 96,618

Q3 Total = 3
Q3 Total = 3
Providers* = 325
Mbr = 179,393

3

1

Q4

* The Provider count is based upon the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).  
There is a many to one ratio. 

Q1 Total = 0
Q1 Total = 0
Providers* = 285
Mbr = 88,894

0

5

1

July 2014 – June 2015

State Fiscal Year

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Open

Closed

FWA Investigation Metrics

 Page 15 of 28

10

State Fiscal Year 2015 Metrics
Q1 – 1 member
Q2 – 0 (no members)
Q3 – 3 members

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

CountyCare Pharmacy Lock‐In Program Participants

Pharmacy “Lock‐In Program”
Designed to detect and prevent abuse of the pharmacy benefit 
g
p
p
y
by restricting Members to one specific pharmacy for 1 year.
Referrals come from two sources: 
o Members who were previously restricted in Medicaid’s Fee‐
M b
h
i l
i d i M di id’ F
for‐Service Program
o CountyCare’s criteria 

FWA  Member Restriction Programs

 Page 16 of 28

11

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Process flow for claims review.  Goal is uniformity with each 
delegated vendor.  FWA processes assure consistency.

FWA Policies & Procedures

 Page 17 of 28

12

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Monthly meetings are coordinated through Corporate 
Compliance and involves CountyCare as a whole. 
Agenda topics include review of:
o Monthly FWA Log; 
o Work Plan and Payment Integrity Activities;
W k Pl
dP
I
i A i ii
o Recipient Restriction/Lock In Program Activity;
o Adverse actions and involuntary terminations;
Adverse actions and involuntary terminations;
o OIG sanctions, payment suspensions, sanctions and 
integrity agreements; and
o Current topics, trends, fraud schemes, and program 
vulnerabilities.

HFS OIG Program Oversight Meetings

 Page 18 of 28

13

Action: Review and Approve 

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

Updates:
Strengthens to incorporate the latest industry standards;
g
p
y
;
Integrates CountyCare and incorporate specific contractual 
requirements;
B d
Broadens to include additional required reporters; and
i l d ddi i
l
i d
d
Modifies the frequency requirement for certain medical staff 
members.

Conflict of Interest Policy Update

 Page 19 of 28

14

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board  I  May 21, 2015 

FWA Disclosure of Ownership Requirement

  

Follow UP

page 20 of 28

  

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CC: 

 

 

Closed Session

page 21 of 28

  

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

a? CC: 

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting
May 21, 2015

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 22 of 28

 Category:

SYSTEM-WIDE POLICY
Subject:
ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATIONS

Page

Policy #:

Title:

Approval Date:

Posting Date:

CONFLICT OF INTEREST (COI)

04/23/2013

04/24/2013

1 of 6

00.02.00

PURPOSE
The purpose of this policy is to help ensure that the business and professional activities of the Cook County
Health & Hospitals System (CCHHS) are conducted free of actual conflicts of interest, or the appearance of any
conflicts of interest, and to protect the interests of CCHHS when it is contemplating entering into a transaction or
arrangement.
AFFECTED AREAS
This Policy affects Covered Persons within all CCHHS affiliated operating units including John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County, Provident Hospital of Cook County, Oak Forest Health Center, Ruth M. Rothstein
CORE Center, Ambulatory & Community Health Network, Cermak Health Services of Cook County, and Cook
County Department of Public Health, and CountyCare.
DEFINITIONS
A. Conflict of Interest: A Conflict of Interest may exist when:
a. a Covered Person, or his/her Personal Relationships, is doing business with CCHHS or any
of its operating units;
b. a Covered Person, or his/her Personal Relationships, has an interest in any issue, item,
matter or transaction that involves CCHHS or its operating units or that is under
consideration by CCHHS or its operating units;
c. a Covered Person, or his/her Personal Relationships, is in a position to influence business
or other decisions including patient access or care of CCHHS in ways that could lead or
appear to lead to the personal gain or advantage of such person, his/her Personal
Relationships, or outside entities.
B. Covered Person: All officers, directors, Board committee members, advisory councils, employees,
members of the CCHHS medical staff or house staff, researchers, students and contractor personnel
carrying out the business or professional activities of the CCHHS.
C. Doing Business:
Having or negotiating the creation of a contract or agreement, whether verbally or in
writing, that involves the commitment of (either in a single transaction or a combination of transactions)
$2,500 or more of CCHHS funds or funds controlled by CCHHS.
D. Gift: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or other tangible or
intangible item having monetary value including, but not limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria
for speaking engagements related to or attributable to a person’s status as a Covered Person.
E. Interest: Any professional, personal, financial, legal or equitable economic interest (whether or not
subject to an encumbrance or a condition), activity, arrangement, or relationship, which is beneficial in
nature and is owned or held, either directly or indirectly, by a Covered Person (or through a Personal
Relationship or Person of Influence) with any entity with which CCHHS has or may in the future be doing
business. The term “Interest” includes, but is not limited to the following examples,

Page 23 of 28

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

2 of 6

00.02.00

a. An ownership interest; serving as a member, officer, director, committee member, partner, paid
consultant, or employee of the same or a related business, or having a financial interest in the same
or a related business;
b. Participation in any outside activity that could interfere significantly with the Covered Person’s work
time obligation;
c. Receipt of fees, or other compensation or remuneration from an entity as a result of professional
services, consulting, speaking engagements, royalties, patents, copyrights, or other intellectual
property rights.
F. Personal Relationships: Covered Person’s spouse, children, parents, siblings, grandchildren, and their
spouses; the Covered Person’s spouse’s parents, siblings, children, grandchildren, and their spouses;
and any Person of Influence.
G. Person of Influence: A person with a close personal or business connection with a Covered Person who
would likely influence the decisions of the Covered Person.
POLICY
Covered Persons shall not be involved in any situation or circumstance that would cause the Covered Person to
have a Conflict of Interest. This prohibition includes the Personal Relationships of the Covered Person.
No Covered Person shall accept any gift from any entity, or an employee, contractor or agent of an entity, with
which CCHHS or its operating units is doing business or with which CCHHS has done business within the past
three years.
Covered Persons are responsible for addressing Conflicts of Interest, whether actual or those that have the
appearance of a Conflict of Interest. Covered Persons must comply with the provisions of this Policy.
Covered Persons have a duty to disclose the existence of a possible Conflict of Interest and all material facts
relating to the possible Conflict of Interest, as provided in the policy.
No Covered Person who has or may have a Conflict of Interest with respect to a transaction or decision shall
participate in the transaction or decision, unless authorized to participate by CCHHS Corporate Compliance.
The CCHHS Conflicts of Interest Policy covers the following areas:
1. Conflicts of Interest in Day-to-Day Business Operations of CCHHS Affiliates
1.2. Conflicts of Interest in Day-to-Day Business Operations of CountyCare
2.3. Conflicts of Interest in Patient Care
3.4. Conflicts of Interest in Research Activities
4.5. Conflicts of Interest in Educational Activities
All Covered Persons shall preserve and protect the interests and assets of CCHHS. The business and
professional activities of CCHHS must be conducted in the best interests of CCHHS, without favoritism or
preference based on personal considerations. Accordingly, each Covered Person must avoid situations, which
may give rise to a Conflict of Interest or the appearance of a Conflict of Interest.
CCHHS has adopted a Standard of Conduct (Code of Ethical Conduct)Code of Ethics that supplements the
Cook County Ethics Ordinance. This defines CCHHS' standards for ethical behavior by CCHHS Personnel in
Page 24 of 28

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

3 of 6

00.02.00

carrying out CCHHS operations. Among other things, the Code of Ethical ConductEthics is designed to protect
the integrity of clinical decision-making. Patient care decisions must be based on the healthcare needs of the
patient, independent of compensation, financial arrangement or favor that may benefit the healthcare provider or
CCHHS.
Research activities at CCHHS must be carried out with the utmost integrity. All research activities must be
approved in advance by the Institutional Review Board of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System and by
CCHHS management.
Educational activities (including professional and public education) at CCHHS must be free from bias and carried
out in a manner that serves the educational component of CCHHS’ Mission and responsibilities as a public
health system, and not the personal interests of any Covered Person.
Duty to Disclose: Covered Persons have a duty to disclose the existence of a possible Conflict of Interest and all
material facts relating to the possible Conflict of Interest, as provided in this Policy. No Covered Person who has
or may have a Conflict of Interest with respect to a transaction or decision shall participate in the transaction or
decision unless authorized to participate by Corporate Compliance.
PROCEDURE
A. The Conflict of Interest process for CCHHS, including Disclosure Statements and conflict resolution,
shall be coordinated by the CCHHS Corporate Compliance, in consultation with the Office of General
Counsel. Questions regarding the Conflict of Interest Policy should be directed to the Corporate
Compliance Office.
B. Duty to Disclose: All Covered Persons have a duty to disclose the existence of a possible Conflict of
Interest and all material facts relating to the possible Conflict of Interest.
1. CountyCare Requirements: Covered Persons specifically involved in CountyCare operations
have a duty to disclose any possible Conflict of Interest to Corporate Compliance within twentyfour (24) hours of discovering such possible Conflict of Interest, so that CCHHS may adequately
meet the conflict of interest requirements of the County Managed Care Community Network
(MCCN) contract with HFS.
2. No Covered Person who has or may have a Conflict of Interest with respect to a transaction or
decision shall participate in the transaction or decision unless authorized to participate by
Corporate Compliance
C. Required Reporters: The following Covered Persons are required to complete disclosure forms on an
annual basis:
1. Board of Directors members and committee members appointed by the Board;
2. Management and individuals in leadership positions;
3. Supply Chain Management personnel, members of committees charged with selection of
products or services to be purchased and/or anyone in a position to influence purchasing
decisions (e.g. case management, social workers);
4. Any Covered Persons who are specifically involved in CountyCare operations;
5. Any CCHHS personnelCovered Persons who works more than or equal to twenty (20) hours per
week or forty (40) hours per pay period and have commitments or relationships with competing
other organizations;
a. Medical staff members that work less than twenty (20) hours per week or forty (40)
hours per pay period must submit an Accounting of Disclosures survey during the
credentialing/re-credentialing process.
Page 25 of 28

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

4 of 6

00.02.00

4.6. Any CCHHS personnel who have outside employment relationships with businesses that seek
to do business with CCHHS
5.7. Any CCHHS personnel who previously had a conflict identified.
C. Disclosure Statement (Conflict of Interest Disclosure Statement): Annually, a Covered Person who is a
Required Reporter must accurately complete a Disclosure Statement and affirm that they: (i) have
received a copy of this Conflict of Interest Policy; (ii) have read and understand this Policy; and (iii) agree
to comply with this Policy. Covered Persons will submit the Disclosure of Interests Statement on a
timely basis to the CCHHS Corporate Compliance Office.
D. Duty to Update Disclosure Statement: It will be the continuing duty of each Covered Person who is sent
such a Disclosure Statement to advise the Chief Compliance Officer within 10 business days of the
occurrence of any event that would have been described in the Conflict of Interest (COI) Disclosure
Statement had it occurred or been known at the time the COI Disclosure Statement was originally
completed.
E. Addressing a Potential Conflict of Interest:
1. If the Covered Person who may have a Conflict of Interest is a Board or Board Committee
member or a member of executive management, the Covered Person shall report the Conflict to
the Chief Compliance Officer immediately. The Chief Compliance Officer, in consultation with
the CCHHS Office of General Counsel, will review the facts of the situation and make a
recommendation to the Chief Executive Officer (or his/her designee), or in the case of a Board
member, the Chairman of the Board (or his/her designee), as to whether a potential Conflict
exists.
2. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) (or his/her designee), for those Covered Persons who are
subject to his/her supervision, shall decide whether the potential Conflict of Interest that has
been disclosed amounts to an actual Conflict of Interest. If it is determined that an actual
Conflict of Interest exists then the following procedures shall be taken:
a. The CEO (or his/her designee), shall direct that the Covered Person refrain from
participating in the transaction or decision.
b. The CEO (or his/her designee), may impose additional safeguards concerning the
transaction or decision in order to protect CCHHS’ interests. These may include,
without limitation, (i) appointing a disinterested person or committee to oversee or
review the proposed transaction or arrangement, or (ii) deciding not to pursue the
transaction or arrangement.
3. In the case of a Board member, the Chairman of the Board shall allow the Board member to
disclose the facts surrounding the potential Conflict of Interest to the Board of Directors in
executive session if he/she so desires. Thereafter, the Board member with the potential conflict
shall leave the room while the Board of Directors decides whether an actual Conflict of Interest
exists. If it is determined that an actual Conflict of Interest exists then the following procedures
shall be taken:
a. The Chairman of the Board shall direct that the Board member refrain from participating
in the transaction or decision.
b. The Chairman of the Board may impose additional safeguards concerning the
transaction or decision in order to protect CCHHS’ interests. These may include,
Page 26 of 28

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

5 of 6

00.02.00

without limitation, (i) appointing a disinterested person or committee to oversee or
review the proposed transaction or arrangement, or (ii) deciding not to pursue the
transaction or arrangement.
4. Failure to comply may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination/severance of
relationship (employment, contract, volunteer status).
5. Where necessary, for potential conflicts of interests that involve CountyCare operations, CCHHS
Corporate Compliance will disclose in writing any Conflicts of Interest to the Department of
Healthcare and Family Services (HFS) no later than seven (7) days after learning of the Conflict of
Interest.
a. In these cases, HFS is responsible for determining whether a Conflict of Interest exists
or whether CCHHS failed to make any required disclosure.
b. HFS will also determine the appropriate remedy for a Conflict of Interest. Available
remedies include, but are not limited to, the elimination of the Conflict of Interest or the
non-renewal or termination of the MCCN Agreement between CCHHS and the County
of Cook for CountyCare operations.
F.

Complete and accurate records shall be maintained of all investigations and determinations under this
Policy.

POLICY UPDATE SCHEDULE
At least every three (3) years, or more often as appropriate.
REGULATORY REFERENCES
Cook County Ethics Ordinance; Section 2-578 (Conflicts of Interest)
Federal Sentencing Guidelines
Federal Anti-Kickback Statute (Stark)
National Institute of Health Guidance
American Medical Association Guidance
PhRMA Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals
OIG Self Disclosure Protocol
Physician Payment Sunshine Act
Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009
Joint Commission Standard LD.04.02.01
POLICY REFERENCES
CCHHS Standards of Conduct (Code of Ethical Conduct)Code of Ethics

Page 27 of 28

 Title:

Page

Policy #

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

6 of 6

00.02.00

POLICY LEAD

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC
CCHHS, Chief Compliance and Privacy Officer

REVIEWERS

Audit & Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors
Office of General Counsel
Human Resources

APPROVAL PARTY

John Jay Shannon, MD
CCHHS, Chief Executive Officer
Electronically Approved: April 24, 2013

POLICY HISTORY
Replaces: Oak Forest Hospital COI Policy 2009 Jan
Written:
2011 June 6
Approved:
2011 Jul 13
Posted: 2011 Aug 25
Updated:
2013 Feb 11 OFH to OFHC
Reviewed/Revised:
.2013 April 24
Posted: 2013 April 24

Page 28 of 28

 