REPORT OF THE
HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 26, 2008

ATTENDANCE
Present: Chairman Andrea L. Zopp and Directors David Carvalho and Quin R. Golden (3)
Absent: Directors Sister Sheila Lyric, RSM and Jorge Ramirez (2)

Chairman of the Board Warren L. BattstEx-Of?cio)

Also Present: Directors Hon. Jerry Butler and Heather O'Donnell; Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to
the Board; Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil Actions
Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; David Fagus Chief Operating Of?cer, Cermak
Health Services; Laura Lechowicz?Felicione Special Counsel to President Todd H.
Stroger; Dr. Avery Hart Interim Chief Medical Of?cer, Cermak Health Services;
Elizabeth Reidy Deputy Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney;
Jonathan Rothstein Acting Bureau Chief, Bureau of Human Resources of Cook
County; Julie Ann Sebastian Assistant State's Attorney, Labor and Employment
Division, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; David Small Interim Chief Executive Of?cer,
Cook County Health and Hospitals System; Sidney Thomas Chief Operating Of?cer,
Provident Hospital of Cook County

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met
pursuant to notice on Friday, September 26, 2008 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at Stroger Hospital, 1901 W. Harrison
Street, in the ?fth floor conference room, in Chicago, Illinois.

Your Human Resources Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Roll Call

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members and it was determined that a quorum was
present.

 

OLD BUSINESS

Update on salary reclassi?cations and status of Desk Audits by
Cook County Bureau of Human Resources.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 26, 2008

PAGE 2

David Small, Interim Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, presented the
Committee with an update on salary reclassi?cations and a report on the status of the desk audits by the Cook
County Bureau of Human Resources. He stated that there were two speci?c requests in this area that had been
made: one was to get a ?nal chart of the reclassi?cations with additional information that had been requested. This
information included the grade, step and salary prior to the proposed reclassi?cations and the subsequent
recommended change. The second request is a report of the non-physician upgrades for which desk audits were in
process. This also includes the grade, step and salary information. Further, Mr. Small stated that his understanding
is that all but one of the desk audits will be completed by the following Tuesday; the ?nal desk audit will be
completed the following week.

Mr. Small responded to questions from Directors on the information provided. He explained that management
wanted to give these individuals salary increases in their grade and in their position, however, they had topped out
at their salary. In order to receive the salary increase, they would have to be promoted into a new position; this
position would need to be posted and they would have to apply for it.

Chairman Zopp inquired further into the limitations on reclassi?cations. She stated that if the positions can be
reclassi?ed, it would be preferable to reclassify rather than create new positions for these types of promotions.

Director Golden requested information on whether these positions were full or part-time.

Mr. Small stated that he could provide that informationl.

 

Discussion of division of human resources resp_onsibilities between the
Cook County Bureau of Human Resources and the

Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Chairman Zopp stated that at the last Human Resources Committee meeting, Jonathan Rothstein, Acting Chief of
the Bureau of Human Resources of Cook County, provided the Committee with his thoughts on the discussion of
the division of human resources responsibilities. Since that meeting, Mr. Small had a chance to review and would
be presenting on the subject.

Mr. Small referenced a memorandum regarding restructuring of human resources functions; also attached to the
memorandum is a proposed functional organizational chart for human resources activities and a copy of Mr.
Rothstein?s memo of September 10, 2008.

Mr. Small indicated that he is in agreement with Mr. Rothstein?s memorandum. The movement of appropriate
human resources functions to the System is going to take time; staf?ng for these functions will be an issue. He
stated that at this particular time, until there is a permanent Chief Executive Of?cer and permanent Chief Medical
Of?cer for the System, he is recommending that the hiring and recruitment of physicians continue as is.

In terms of collective bargaining, Mr. Small indicated that there is no disagreement that the Ordinance calls for the
System Board and his of?ce to work collaboratively with Mr. Rothstein and the County in efforts of negotiations
around collective bargaining agreements. Further, Mr. Small stated that current System staf?ng for labor relations
issues appears adequate at the moment.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 26, 2008

PAGE 3

Mr. Small discussed recommendations for some targeted and highly technical types of training for ?scal year 2009.
This would include training for upgrades to the Cemer registration clinical system and its eventual roll-out to
Provident Hospital. Further, he stated that once the new System Director of Human Resources is hired, the System
can move forward in planning for an ongoing review of compensation, development and maintenance of
performance-based job descriptions, and a variety of other activities.

Chairman Zopp stated that her immediate reaction is that it seems to be pretty well aligned with the County?s
Human Resources' point of view.

Mr. Rothstein stated that there are some details that need to be reviewed.

Director Carvalho referenced a recommendation made in a memorandum from Cecil Marchand, Associate
Administrator at Stroger Hospital of Cook County. In this memorandum, Mr. Marchand recommended that the
Chief Executive Officer be removed from the hiring process. Director Carvalho stated that it may be premature at
this point to remove him from the process.

Mr. Small stated that he is in agreement with Mr. Marchand?s position. Several steps were removed in the revised
hiring process that called for the Chief Executive Of?cer?s signatures. Mr. Small felt that it did not add any value
to the process, and it gives the Chief Operating Of?cers at the institutions the appropriate leadership oversight at
the operational level.

 

Update and discussion of pending information regnests.
ACTION ITEMS FOR FOLLOW-UP

Reguests to David Small:

Provide to the committee a copy of the current orientation process materials for
recruitment. (7-21 meeting)

Supply the committee with a copy of the hiring plan (8-18 meeting)
Provide lists of all personnel, by names, title, salary and date of hire at each facility

in the also include all open positions by title and salary for each facility. 
19 meeting)

Mr. Small provided the Committee with copies of current orientation process materials for recruitment.

With regard to the request for the hiring plan from Chairman ZOpp, Mr. Small believed that it had been previously
distributed. He stated that he would make sure the Committee receives a copy of itl.

With regard to the request for lists of all personnel, Mr. Small indicated that he has the information. Due to the size
of the document, they are working on making it available to the Directors electroniCallyJ.

Director Golden requested a list of those providing contractual services in terms of staffing?.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 26, 2008

PAGE 4

In response to a comment from Director Carvalho, in which he indicated that he has not received a copy of the
methodology, Mr. Small stated that all of the Chief Medical Of?cers have been asked to provide that to his of?ce;
once he receives it he will distribute a copy to the Directorsj.

ACTION ITEMS FOR FOLLOW-UP
Requests to Laura Lechowicz?Felicione

Will provide to the committee a report on a new hiring plan and implementing
practices that prevent Unlawful Political Discrimination. (8-4 meeting)

Will provide a report to the committee on what the Inspector General does on claims
that have been ?led which includes whether the investigation is ongoing and whether
the allegations and the complaint were sustained or not sustained. (8-4 meeting)

Laura Lechowicz-Felicione, Special Counsel to President Todd H. Stroger, provided four documents to the
Committee.

With regard to the ?rst request, Ms. Icehowicz-Felicione stated that she previously provided to the Committee the
Ordinance that prohibits political discrimination and the training presentation provided to employees. This
information included the certi?cations that have been implemented for both applicants for employment, as well as
current personnel who are involved in the County?s employment process. Further, she indicated that she had
provided the Committee with correspondence from Mr. Rothstein to Compliance Administrator Judge Julia
Nowicki regarding recent changes that had been implemented in Human Resources to further prevent any unlawful
political discrimination. Additionally, some recommendations made by the Compliance Administrator in her
second report have been implemented.

Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione stated that the Committee was provided with the first and second quarterly reports from
the Independent Inspector General. She added that on September 3, 2008, the Cook County Board of
Commissioners con?rmed the appointment of Patrick Blancth as the County?s Independent Inspector General; he
will begin his employment in that position on October 

Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione provided the members with an update on Shakman compliance efforts. She stated that
the only thing pending right now with the plaintiffs is the proposed exempt list. The plaintiffs have come back to
request additional information for some of the positions. She reminded the Committee that the Shakman-exempt
list is a living. breathing document. She stated that the System has the proposed exempt list; if there are any
changes to the list she should be kept informed so that she can communicate the information to the Plaintiffs.

Director Carvalho inquired whether there is a mechanism in process for the Shakman-exempt list to centinue to be
a living breathing document.

Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione stated that the goal is to include language in the hiring plan which references the exempt
positions and the process to change, add and revise those positions. Right now the process has been and continues
to be that any changes will have to be submitted to the plaintiffs; they will have the opportunity to review and
comment on such changes.

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 26, 2003

PAGE 5

Ms. Lechowicz-Felicione referenced another document provided to the Committee. This is an executive order that
was signed by President Stroger on September 2, 2008, regarding continued compliance with the Compliance
Administrator and the Independent Inspector General.

In response to a question from Mr. Small regarding the number of adjudicated claims ?led by System employees,
Ms. Lechowicz?Felicione indicated that she had received the breakdown of awards from the Compliance
Administrator, but it does not indicate where an employee may have been housed.

Director Carvalho asked if the information will be available to Mr. Small to identify if there are individuals within
the System who did the deeds that led to the claims.

Ms. Lechondcz?Felicione stated that they will be meeting with Judge Nowicki after the release of the awards to
discuss the merits of her ?ndings and where she thinks there may be issues across the County; this information will
be communicated to Mr. Small.

Chairman Zopp requested that Mr. Small and Mr. Marchand set up a meeting with Judge Nowicki; after this
meeting, Judge Nowicki should be asked to address the Human Resources Committee to let the Committee know
what her findings were?.

Director Butler asked what will be the impact of this award to the budget.

Patrick T. Driscoli, Jr., Deputy State?s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Of?ce of the State?s
Attorney, indicated that the money has been approved by the Board; it would not be part of the ?scal year 2009
budget and would not have any direct impact on the System.

ACTION ITEMS FOR FOLLOW-UP
Requests to Jona_th_an Rothstein:

Provide information to the committee regarding the number of hospital related
grievances that exist, as well as well as an overview of the grievance process. (7-21
meeting)

Supply the committee with a list of the unions, their contracts, and the number of
their members. (7?21 meeting)

Mr. Rothstein indicated that he had provided the Committee with two items that had been pending. One item is a
list of all the unions which the County has agreements and the contract information that was requested; the second
item is a list of the agreements themselves with their terms. He added that Mr. Marchand had previously provided
the Committee with a list that contained the number of members in each union.

Mr. Rothstein stated that Director Ramirez had asked for copies of all of the agreements and if anyone else is
interested in seeing the copies he can provide them.

Chairman Zopp stated that she will include an item on the next Human Resources Committee agenda to review the
number of grievances filed and to review the grievance processi.

 

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 26, 2008

PAGE 6

NEW BUSINESS

Review and discuss iob description for head of Human Resources
for the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Mr. Small distributed a draft job description for the Committee?s review and feedback.

Chairman Zopp asked the Directors to review the job description; she will include it on the next Human Resources
Committee agendas.

Ms. lechowicz?Felicione stated that she would like for Judge Nowicki to receive a oppy of the draft job description
so she can review it and provide any commentary that she thinks is necessary.

 

Update on preparation for Collective Bargaining Negotiations.

Report and discussion of impact of Duran Class Action litigation on provision of

Dental Services including staf?ng and salaries at Cermak Health Services.
Discussion of pending Labor Relations Board matters.

Review, discuss and approve con?dential position description for
Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Chairman Zopp, seconded by Director Carvalho, moved to recess the regular session and convene into closed
session, pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120l2(c)(2), et seq., which permits closed
meetings for consideration of ?Collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or
their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,?
and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120l2(c)(11), et seq., which permits closed
meetings for consideration of ?Litigation, when an action against, a??ecting or on behalf of the particular
body has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds
that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recnrded and entered
into the minutes of the closed meeting,? and pursuant to an exception to the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120f2(c)(17), et seq., which permits closed meetings for consideration of ?The recruitment, credentialing,
discipline or formal peer review of physicians or other health care professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the public body.? THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn the closed session and convene into
regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden moved to approve the con?dential position description for
Chief Executive Of?cer of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

 

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 26, 2008

PAGE 7

Miscellaneous

Chairman Zopp stated that at this meeting the Committee received a copy of the updated proposed hiring policy
which includes the changes that were discussed at the last Human Resources Committee meeting. It will be
included on the next agenda of the Human Resources Committee for ?nal approva19.Also at the next meeting the
Committee will be discussing the disciplinary policy and practices and the dual employment rule?.

 

Public Comments
Chairman Zopp asked the Secretary to call upon any registered public speakers.

The Secretary reSponded that there were none.

 

Adj oumment

Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Golden, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,

Human Resour Committee of the
Board of Dir to of the

ospitals System

Ms. Ah?drea Zopp. Wit/-

 

 

Attest:

  



tthew B. DeLeon, Secretary

 

 

The followin was nested or was indicated as a follow-u item at this meetin 

 

Request for information on full or part-time status on reolassi?oations lists. On page 2.
(David Small)

2 Request for hiring plan. On page 3. (David Small)

REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY

HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

September 26, 2003

PAGE 8

 

3 Re: request for lists of all personnel provide electronically. On page 3. (David Small)

4 Request for a list of those providing contractual services in terms of staf?ng. On page 3.
(David Small)

5 Request for a copy of the methodology (Chief Medical Of?cers asked to provide to David
Small). On page 4. (David Small)

'5 Follow up on request for Judge Nowicki to address the Human Resources Committee. On
page 5. (David Small and Cecil Marchand)

7' Follow-up: Include an item on the next Human Resources Committee agenda to review the
number of grievances ?led and to review the grievance process. On page 5.

3 Follow-up: Include an item on the next Human Resources Committee agenda to review the
job description for the head of the System?s Human Resources. On page 6.

9 Follow-up: Include an item on the next Human Resources Committee agenda to review and
approve the final updated proposed hiring policy. On page 7.

1" Follow-up: Include an item on the next Human Resources Committee agenda to discuss the
disciplinary policy and practices and the dual employment rule. On page 7.

