Minutes of the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System held Wednesday, March 12, 2014 at the hour of 5:30 P.M., at 1900 West Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Muñoz called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH and Directors Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD and
Carmen Velasquez (3)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Cathy Bodnar – System Chief Compliance and
Privacy Officer
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel

II.

Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Thomas Schroeder – System Director of Internal Audit
Steve Sehy - McGladrey LLP
John Jay Shannon, MD – Chief of Clinical Integration

Public Speakers
Chairman Muñoz asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none.

III.

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Item
A. Update from McGladrey LLP on FY2013 Audit (Attachment #1)
Steve Sehy, representing McGladrey LLP, provided an update on activities relating to the FY2013 Audit
activities. The Committee reviewed and discussed the information.
Information reviewed in their update included the following: Required Communications Letter; Audit
Approach and Plan; Significant Risk/Focus Areas; Audit Timetable; and Audit Progress.

IV.

**Report from System Director of Internal Audit
A. Update on Hektoen Institute of Medicine
Tom Schroeder, System Director of Internal Audit, provided an update on the Hektoen Institute of
Medicine. He noted that, with the exception of the grants held by the Cook County Department of Public
Health, Hektoen is the administrator for the System’s grant portfolio. The audited financial statements
and the review of the grant compliance and financial performance were received. The audits were clean,
they had unqualified opinions and there were no comments made from their audit results.
Page 1 of 30

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Audit and Compliance Committee
Wednesday, March 12, 2014
Page 2

V.

**Report from System Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer (Attachment #2)
Cathy Bodnar, System Corporate Compliance and Privacy Officer, presented her report containing updates
on the following subjects: Reactive Issue Count by Fiscal Year; Actual Reactive Issue Activity; FY2013
Issue Breakdown by Category; HIPAA Patient Privacy Issues; 2013 Privacy Issues; Privacy Breach
Breakdown; Status Report of Issues; Additional FY2013 Activity; and Proposed Projects for FY2014. The
Committee reviewed and discussed the information.

VI.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, October 9, 2013
Director Velasquez, seconded by Director Morris, moved to accept the minutes of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of October 9, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
B. Any items listed under Sections VI and VII

VII. Closed Session Items
A. **Report from System Director of Internal Audit
B. **Report from System Corporate Compliance Officer
C. Discussion of Personnel Matters
Director Morris, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to recess the regular session
and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public
body to determine its validity,” and 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(29), regarding “meetings between
internal or external auditors and governmental audit committees, finance committees, and
their equivalents, when the discussion involves internal control weaknesses, identification
of potential fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of the United States of
America.” THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Chairman Muñoz declared that the closed session was adjourned.
reconvened into regular session.

The Committee

VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Muñoz declared the meeting ADJOURNED.

Page 2 of 30

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
Audit and Compliance Committee
Wednesday, March 12, 2014
Page 3

Respectfully submitted,
Audit and Compliance Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 3 of 30

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
March 12, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 4 of 30

 Presentation to the
Audit and Compliance Committee
McGladrey LLP
January 28, 2014

Page 5 of 30
© 2014 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Discussion Outline
 Required Communications Letter
 Audit Approach and Plan
 Significant Risk/Focus Areas
 Audit Timetable
 Audit Progress

This communication is intended solely for the information and use of Audit and Compliance Committee of
Cook County Health and Hospitals System and is not intended to be and should not be used by anyone
Page 6 of 30
other than these specified parties.

1

© 2014 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Approach and Plan
 Risk-based audit approach

-

-

Identify fraud and control environment risk factors
Focus on areas that contribute to increased risk of material financial
statement misstatement

•
•
•
•

Key business cycles and processes
Significant judgments and estimates
Significant accounting policies
Material events and transactions

Preliminary risk assessments updated during and at the completion of
our audit

Page 7 of 30

2
© 2014 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Significant Risk/Focus Areas
 Significant risk areas

-

-

Net patient service revenue
Patient accounts receivable and related contractual and bad debt
allowances
Third-party reimbursement and related settlement assets and liabilities
CountyCare premium revenue and claims reserves

 Focus areas where we will be relying on testing performed by the
County external audit team

-

Cash and investments
Capital assets
Self-insurance liabilities
Debt
Pension liabilities
Payroll expenses and liabilities
Property, sales and cigarette tax revenues
Page 8 of 30

3
© 2014 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Timetable
Task
Oct/Nov

Jan

Feb

Month
Mar

Apr

May

Audit planning and risk assessment
Jointly establish engagement goals and objectives
Assess risk, document, and evaluate internal controls
Meet with management to enhance understanding of business, financial, and operating
activities
Document audit plan and risk assessment
Develop schedule of requested assistance
Present audit plan to Audit and Compliance Committee

Preliminary audit work
Test internal controls
Document understanding of general computer controls
Perform existence testing of patient accounts receivable
Final audit work
County finalizes accounting records
Test year-end account balances
Perform final substantive analytical review procedures
Reporting
Review draft financial statements with CCHHS management
Provide preliminary draft financial statements to County
Present audit results and draft financial statements to Audit and Compliance Committee
Finalize financial statements and other reporting, including management letter

Page 9 of 30

4
© 2014 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 Audit Progress to Date
 Status of audit planning and preliminary work

-

Walk-throughs and internal control understanding documentation
areas nearing completion:

• Accounts payable/purchasing
• Treasury
• Payroll
• Capital assets
 Final fieldwork will begin on March 3, 2014
 Key reporting dates

-

Draft financials available for review by management – April 2014
Preliminary draft financials provided to County – April 2014

Page 10 of 30

5
© 2014 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 This document contains general information, may be based on authorities that are subject to change, and is not a substitute for professional advice
or services. This document does not constitute assurance, tax, consulting, business, financial, investment, legal or other professional advice, and
you should consult a qualified professional advisor before taking any action based on the information herein. McGladrey LLP, its affiliates and
related entities are not responsible for any loss resulting from or relating to reliance on this document by any person.
McGladrey LLP is an Iowa limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of RSM International, a global network of independent accounting,
tax and consulting firms. The member firms of RSM International collaborate to provide services to global clients, but are separate and distinct legal
entities that cannot obligate each other. Each member firm is responsible only for its own acts and omissions, and not those of any other party.

McGladrey®, the McGladrey logo, the McGladrey Classic logo, The power of being understood®, Power comes from being understood®, and
Experience the power of being understood® are registered trademarks of McGladrey LLP.

McGladrey LLP
One South Wacker Drive
Suite 800
Chicago, Illinois 60606
312.384.6000
www.mcgladrey.com

© 2014 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

Page 11 of 30
© 2014 McGladrey LLP. All Rights Reserved.

 McGladrey LLP
One South Wacker Drive, Suite 800
Chicago, Illinois 60606
O 312.384.6000 F 312.634.3410
www.mcgladrey.com

January 28, 2014

Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
1900 West Polk Street
Chicago, Illinois 60612
Attention: Dr. Luis Munoz, Chairman
This letter is intended to communicate certain matters related to the planned scope and timing of our
audit of Cook County Health and Hospitals System's (CCHHS) financial statements as of and for the year
ended November 30, 2013.
Communication
Effective two-way communication between our Firm and the Audit and Compliance Committee is
important to understanding matters related to the audit and in developing a constructive working
relationship.
Your insights may assist us in understanding CCHHS and its environment, in identifying appropriate
sources of audit evidence, and in providing information about specific transactions or events. We will
discuss with you your oversight of the effectiveness of internal control and any areas where you request
additional procedures to be undertaken. We expect that you will timely communicate with us any matters
you consider relevant to the audit. Such matters might include strategic decisions that may significantly
affect the nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures, your suspicion or detection of fraud, or any
concerns you may have about the integrity or competence of senior management.
We will timely communicate to you any fraud involving senior management and other fraud that causes a
material misstatement of the financial statements, instances of noncompliance with laws and regulations
that come to our attention (unless they are clearly inconsequential), and disagreements with management
and other serious difficulties encountered in performing the audit. We will also communicate to you and to
management any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal control that become known to
us during the course of the audit. Other matters arising from the audit that are, in our professional
judgment, significant and relevant to you in your oversight of the financial reporting process will be
communicated to you in writing after the audit.
Independence
Our independence policies and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that our Firm
and its personnel comply with applicable professional independence standards. Our policies address
financial interests, business and family relationships, and non-audit services that may be thought to bear
on independence. For example, partners and professional employees of McGladrey LLP are restricted in
their ability to own a direct financial interest or a material indirect financial interest in a client or any
affiliates of a client. Also, if an immediate family member or close relative of a partner or professional
employee is employed by a client in a key position, the incident must be reported and resolved in
accordance with Firm policy. In addition, our policies restrict certain non-audit services that may be
provided by McGladrey LLP and require audit clients to accept certain responsibilities in connection with
the provision of permitted non-attest services.

Page 12 of 30

Member of the RSM International network of independent accounting, tax and consulting firms.

 Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
January 28, 2014
Page 2
The Audit Planning Process
Our audit approach places a strong emphasis on obtaining an understanding of how your business
functions. This enables us to identify key audit components and tailor our procedures to the unique
aspects of your business. The development of a specific audit plan will begin by meeting with you and
with management to obtain an understanding of your business objectives, strategies, risks, and
performance.
As part of obtaining an understanding of your business and its environment, we will obtain an
understanding of internal control. We will use this understanding to identify risks of material misstatement,
which will provide us with a basis for designing and implementing responses to the assessed risks of
material misstatement. We will also obtain an understanding of the users of the financial statements in
order to establish an overall materiality level for audit purposes. We will conduct formal discussions
among engagement team members to consider how and where your financial statements might be
susceptible to material misstatement due to fraud or error.
The Concept of Materiality in Planning and Executing the Audit
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing the audit, evaluating the effect of
identified misstatements on the audit, and the effect of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial
statements, and in forming the opinion in our report. Our determination of materiality is a matter of
professional judgment and is affected by our perception of the financial information needs of users of the
financial statements. We establish performance materiality at an amount less than materiality for the
financial statements as a whole to allow for the risk of misstatements that may not be detected by the
audit. We use performance materiality for purposes of assessing the risks of material misstatement and
determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures. Our assessment of materiality
throughout the audit will be based on both quantitative and qualitative considerations. Because of the
interaction of quantitative and qualitative considerations, misstatements of a relatively small amount could
have a material effect on the current financial statements as well as financial statements of future periods.
We will accumulate misstatements identified during the audit, other than those that are clearly trivial. At
the end of the audit, we will inform you of all individual unrecorded misstatements aggregated by us in
connection with our evaluation of our audit test results.
Our Approach to Internal Control Relevant to the Audit
Our audit of the financial statements will include obtaining an understanding of internal control sufficient to
plan the audit and to determine the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures to be performed. An
audit is not designed to provide assurance on internal control or to identify significant deficiencies or
material weaknesses. Our review and understanding of CCHHS's internal control is not undertaken for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control.
Using the Work of Internal Auditors
As part of our understanding of your business and its environment, we will obtain and document an
understanding of your internal audit function. We will read relevant internal audit reports issued during the
year to determine whether such reports indicate a source of potential error or fraud that would require a
response when designing our audit procedures. Because internal auditors are employees, they are not
independent and their work can never be substituted for the work of the external auditor. We may,
however, alter the nature, timing, and extent of our audit procedures based upon the results of the
internal auditor's work or use them to provide direct assistance to us during the performance of our audit.

Page 13 of 30

 Audit and Compliance Committee
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
January 28, 2014
Page 3
Timing of the Audit
We have performed preliminary audit field work during the weeks of October 21 and 28, 2013 with final
field work commencing the week of March 3, 2014. Management's adherence to its closing schedule and
timely completion of information used by us in performance of the audit is essential to timely completion
of the audit.
Closing
We will be pleased to respond to any questions you have about the foregoing. We appreciate the
opportunity to continue to be of service to Cook County Health and Hospitals System.
This communication is intended solely for the information and use of the Audit and Compliance
Committee and is not intended to be and should not be used by anyone other than these specified
parties.
McGladrey LLP

Patrick J. Kitchen
Partner

Page 14 of 30

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
March 12, 2014

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 15 of 30

 Corporate Compliance
Report

Cathy Bodnar, MS, RN, CHC
Chief Compliance Privacy Officer

March 12, 2014

 

  

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
.1?058: HOSPITALS SYSTEM
. 

 

Page 16 of 30

Meeting Objectives
To review
 Fiscal year-end Corporate Compliance activity.
 Proposed
P
d Corporate
C
t C
Compliance
li
workk plan.
l

2
Page 17 of 30

 Reactive Issue Count by Fiscal Year
470
367
242
187

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

3
Page 18 of 30

FY 2013

 Actual Reactive Issue Activity
497
27

382
15

470
15

187

FY 2010

367

27

24

242

FY 2011

FY 2012

4
Page 19 of 30

FY 2013

 FY 2013 Issue Breakdown by Category
4701 Reactive Corporate Compliance Issues Were Raised
Regulatory/Policy
11%

False Claims
4%

Research
0%
Other
12%
Political
Activity
1%

HIPAA
53%

Human
Resources
6%
HC Fraud
3%
Theft
1%
g y Count1
Category
Privacy (HIPAA)
Regulatory/Policy
5 Human Resources
1

Conflict of
Interest
6%

248 Conflict of Interest
50 False Claims
30 Accurate Books

Accurate Books
3%
29 HC Fraud
12 Research
19 Theft
4 Other
16 Political Activity 2

2
58

This is a total count of the issues raised to Corporate Compliance. Not all issues are validated/substantiated.
Page 20 of 30

 HIPAA Patient Privacy Issues
Not all of the 248 Privacy Issues in FY 2013 are Privacy Breaches
 The majority of the requests for guidance are classified as follows,
– Release of information,
information
– Data exchange, and
– Business Associate Agreements.
 There are privacy breaches.

Page 21 of 30

 What is a Privacy Breach?
Under the Final HIPAA Omnibus Rule, any unauthorized acquisition,
access use or disclosure of Protected Health Information or PHI is a
access,
reportable breach.
 The Rule replaces the “harm
harm threshold
threshold” requirement with the requirement
to determine the “risk of compromise.”
 The question we initially ask to make that determination is,
Has the PHI been rendered unusable, unreadable, or indecipherable to
unauthorized individuals?
- Electronic – Was the PHI encrypted?
- Paper, film, or other hard copy media – Was the material shredded or
destroyed such that the PHI cannot be read or otherwise reconstructed?

Page 22 of 30

 2013 Privacy Issues
Of the 248 privacy issues in Fiscal Year 2013,
 56 issues or 22.5% were confirmed privacy breaches.
 354 individuals were affected.
In Calendar Year 2013,
 58 issues were confirmed p
privacyy breaches.
 22,867 individuals were affected.

Page 23 of 30

 Privacy Breach Breakdown
Key Areas Involved in the Calendar Year Incidents

Research
5%

Business
Associates
5%
3 Incidents

3 Incidents

Clinics
5%

Pharmacy
55%
32 Incidents

3 Incidents

This graph represents
the number of
calendar year issues

Medical
M
di l St
Staff
ff
12%
7 Incidents

Individuals Affected
Research
Medical Staff
Lab
9
Pharmacy

22,566
179
44
33

Clinic
Business Associate
Registration
Employee Health Services

32
3
3
2

Environmental Services
HIM
Nursing
Transportation
Page 24 of 30

1
1
1
1

Unknown

1

 10

Questions?

Page 25 of 30

  
    

 

8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM


2
.4

?r

 

Status Report of Issues
Of the 497 reactive issues addressed during FY 2013,
5% or 24 issues remained open at close of the fiscal year
year.

24 or 5%

Open Issues

389

471 or 95%
Resolved
Issues

Managed Internally
Partnered with Another Area
Referred to Other Areas

29
53
The majority of the issues, 84%, were either
managed solely by Corporate Compliance or
Corporate Compliance partnered with
another area to address the concern raised.
11
Page 26 of 30

 Additional FY 2013 Activity


Compliance with the Final HIPAA Omnibus Rule
– Updated Notice of Privacy Practices
– Updated Business Associate Agreements



Education
– New Employee (26 Sessions) & New Resident Orientation
– Specialty Education (16 Separate Sessions)
– Annual Education
o Managed the entire e-Learning
e Learning process for all required courseware including
Corporate Compliance/HIPAA
– Participated in The Joint Commission Fair at Fantus



System wide Policies and Procedures
System-wide



Assessment of the Volunteer Program



Conflict of Interest
– Accounting
Acco nting of Disclos
Disclosures
res
– Dual Employment



Re-Started the Internal Corporate Compliance Committee
Page 27 of 30

 13

Questions?

Page 28 of 30

  
    

 

8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM


2
.4

?r

 

Proposed Projects for FY 2014


Managed Care
– Implementation of a Corporate Compliance Program



Coding
– Inpatient DRG Assignment
– Outpatient CPT Assignment



ICD-10-CM/PCS Documentation Quality



Education
– Transition
– Annual Compliance Education



Research



Conflict of Interest
– Dual Employment Survey
– Accounting
A
ti off Di
Disclosures
l
S
Survey



Advanced Beneficiary Notice
Page 29 of 30

 15

Questions?

Page 30 of 30

  
    

 

8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM


2
.4

?r

 

