HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: October 16, 2015
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Friday, October 23, 2015 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

9:00/Chairman Wiese

II.

Public Speakers

9:00-9:05

III.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources

9:05-9:30/Gladys Lopez

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of September 16, 2015 9:30-9:35Chairman Wiese
B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement-related matters – approval of:

9:35-9:40/Gladys Lopez

i. Negotiated wages and healthcare changes for:
• Illinois Fraternal Order of Police, representing Oak Forest Health
Facilities Public Safety Officers (HS1)
ii. Collective Bargaining Agreements for:
• Cook County Pharmacy Association, Chicago Joint Board, Retail,
Wholesale & Department Store Union (RWDSU) Local 200,
representing Cook County Health Facilities Administrative Assistant
III’s and IV’s, Talent Management Assistant, Talent Management
Specialist, Human Resource Specialist and Recruitment and Selection
Analyst
• International Brotherhood of Teamsters Local 700 representing Oak
Forest Health Facilities Public Safety Officers II and Investigators II
iii. Prevailing Wage Rates for:
• Coalition of Unionized Public Employees (C.O.U.P.E.) Trades, for
Sign Painter Shopman positions
C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V
V.

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

Report from Chief of Human Resources
Collective Bargaining Agreement-related matters (see Item IV(B))
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters

** Also included as a potential Closed Session Item/Discussion under Section V.

9:40-10:00

 AGENDA
Friday, October 23, 2015 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Wiese
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Collens and (TBD)

 