REPORT OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 11, 2003

ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Warren L. Batts and Directors David A. Ansell, MD, Hon. Jerry
Butler; David Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, MPH, 
Sister Sheila Lyne, Luis Munoz, MD, Heather B. O'Donnell, JD,
and Jorge Ramirez (1 1)

Absent: Director Andrea L. Zopp (1)

Also Present: Sandra Ankehrant - Chief Operating O?icer, Ambulatory and Community Health
Network of Cook County; Victoria Bigelow President, Suburban Primary
Health Care Council; Johnny Brown - Chief Operating Of?cer, Stroger Hospital
of Cook County; Matthew B. DeLeon Secretary to the Board of Commissioners
of Cook County; Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State's Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, Office of the State?s Attorney; Donna Dunnings Chief
Financial Of?cer of Cook County; Sylvia Edwards - Chief Operating Of?cer,
Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County; David Fagus Chief Operating Officer,
Cermak Health Services; Maurice Lemon, MD, MPH Medical Director,
Stroger Hospital of Cook County; Stephen Martin, MPH Chief Operating
Officer, Cook County Department of Public Health; Elizabeth Reidy Deputy
Chief, Civil Actions Bureau, O?ice of the State?s Attorney; Robert Simon, MD 
Transitional Adviser for President Todd H. Stroger; David Small Chief
Operating Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services; Sidney Thomas -
Chief Operating Officer, Provident HosPital of Cook County; Carmen Triche-
Colvin Cook County Purchasing Agent; Robert Weinstein, MD Chief
Operatin Of?cer, The Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met pursuant to notice
on Friday, July 11, 2008 at the hour of 7: 30 A. M. at 1900 West Polk Street, Second Floor, in
Chicago, Illinois.

Your Board of Directors has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Matthew B. DeLeon, Secretary to the Board of Commissioners of Cook County, called the roll of
members and it was determined that a quorum was present.

Chairman Batts invited David Small, Chief Operating Of?cer of the Bureau of Health Services, to
introduce the Chief Operating Officers of some of the components of the Bureau of Health
Services.

Mr. Small introduced the following individuals:

Page 2
REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting ofJuIy 11, 2008

Sandra Ankebrant - Chief Operating O?icer, Ambulatory and Community Health Network of
Cook County;

Johnny Brown - Chief Operating Officer, Stroger Hospital of Cook County;

Sylvia Edwards - Chief Operating Of?cer, Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County;

Sidney Thomas - Chief Operating Officer, Provident Hospital of Cook County;

Stephen Martin, MPH - Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook County Department of Public

Health;
Robert Weinstein, MD - Chief Operating Of?cer, The Ruth M. Rothstein CORE Center; and

David Fagus Chief Operating Of?cer, Cennak Health Services

Chairman Batts indicated that the draft System Board Rules had been distributed to the members,
and reminded them that recommended changes should be submitted to the Chair and to Patrick
Driscoll, Deputy State?s Attorney and Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau of the Office of the
State?s Attomey, at the earliest opportunity so that they may be considered at the next meeting.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

ApprOVal of the minutes of the Inaugural Meeting of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System Board of Directors of Wednesday, June 18, 2008 at 9:30

AM.

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to approve the minutes of the Inaugural
Meeting of. the Cook County Health and Hospitals System of Wednesday, one 13, 2008 at
9:30 A.M. THE MOTION CARRIED 

 

APPOINTMENTS TO
THE SYSTEM BOARD COMMITTEES

Chairman Batts proposed that there should be a separate, standalone Audit Committee, as it has a
great deal of its own work to do. He then announced the appointments to the System Board
Committees, which are as follows:

 

 

Audit Committee Human Resources Committee
Chairman: Mu?oz Chairman: Zopp
Members: Greenspan Members: Carvalho
O?Donnell Golden
Lyne
Ramirez
Finance Committee
Chairman: Carvaiho Quality and Compliance Committee
Members: Golden Chairman: Ansell
- Mu?oz . Members: Butler
O'Donnell Greenspan

Ramirez - Muiioz

Page 3

REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting of July 1 l, 2008

APPOINTMENTS TO

THE SYSTEM BOARD (continued!

As all members have indicated an interest in serving on the Strategic Planning Committee,
Chairman Batts proposed that it be a committee of the whole, with a steering committee led by
Director Greenspan and composed of the committee chairs. Each committee should determine
what part of the preliminary information they should gather for the strategy. The strategy would
not be ?nalized until a permanent Chief Executive Of?cer is in place.

 

NEW BUSINESS

Motion to set the next meeting date of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System Board of Directors.

Director Butler, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to set the next meeting of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors for Wednesday, July 23, 2008 at
7 :30 A.M. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Discussion of miscellaneous System Board procedure issues, including, but not
limited to, the following:

Requests for information from individual Directors and the public, and
Directors' tours of System facilities.

Chairman Batts indicated that the Directors were invited to take a tour of Stroger Hospital after
the meeting.

With regard to requests for public accessibility to the System Board and the administrative
support needed by the Chairman and Directors, Chairman Batts stated that such communications
should be directed through and support given by a System staff person dedicated for such needs.

 

Financial report from the Chief Financial Of?cer of Cook County for the Cook
County Health and Hospital System.

Donna Dunnings, Chief Financial Of?cer of Cook County, presented a brief overview of the state
of Cook County and distributed to the members electronic copies of the Fiscal Year 2008 Budget
for their information.

Page 4
REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors
Meeting of July 11, 2008

NEW BUSINESS (continued)

Ms. Dunnings pointed out that the Board had received copies of a report by Mr. Small to Cook
County Commissioner Joseph Mario Moreno. In that report Mr. Small detailed that there was a
shortfall of $41 million from the revenue that was projected as of the date that the budget was
passed, Febniary 29, 2003.

Ms. Dunnings informed the Board that expenditures are being tracked at the level budgeted with
consistent review by the County Comptroller? of?ce, the Budget Director and herself to make
sure they are on target. Deviation from the target would bring Ms. Dunnings before the System
Board to ask what action the Board would want taken

In response to a question regarding expenditure tracking by Director Ansell, Ms. Dunnings stated
that she could provide the Board with a trial balance which details expenditures on a 

basis.

Director Greenspan inquired whether there was a 2007 audit report for the Health and Hospitals
System.

Ms. Dunnings responded that the draft report was not expected to be received until August from
Deloitte Touche. She stated that when she receives it she will forward copies to the Board.

Director Greenspan asked if it was possible to receive any kind of closed ?nancial statement prior
to the August draft report.

Ms. Dunnings replied that she would be meeting with the auditors in the following week and she
would compile it for him if he so requested.

Director Greenspan replied af?rmatively.
Director O?Donnell asked whether the projected $41 million shortfall was for the ?rst quarter.
Ms Dunnings replied that it is the projected shortfall for ?scal year end 2008.

Chairman Batts requested that Mr. Small review with the Board in detail the status of the
System?s budget as of the year-to-date and provide an update on projections for the rest'of the
?scal year.

Mr. Small stated that it would be on the agenda for the next meeting of the Board.

While discussing payer mix deterioration, Director Ansell inquired into the effectiveness of
patient enrollment into programs.

Mr. Small replied thathe could provide a full analysis on the issue.

Director Ansell asked Mr. Small whether overtime costs were consistent compared to the budget.

Page 5
REPORT

Cook County Health and HosPitals System
Board of Directors
Meeting of July 11, 2008

NEW BUSINESS {continued}

Mr. Small replied that overall the Bureau?s overtime costs are in line with the budget but are
trending up, largely in part because of the number of vacant positions. He added that there are a
total of three hundred positions posted, and a similar number of positions that need to be ?lled.

Director O?Donnell inquired further on the subject of the projected shortfall. She referenced a
document previously submitted to the Board for their review, the Comptroller?s Revenue Report
dated March 31, 2008, in which the annual projection at four months into the fiscal year was

signi?cantly higher, at $63 million.

Mr. Small stated that for the ?rst four months of ?scal year 2003 the shortfall at that time was
roughly $21 million. There has been a decrease in the rate which is leading them to believe that
the high end of the annual potential revenue shortfall may be in the $40 million range, as opposed
to $60 million.

In response to inquiries regarding the previous year's shortfall with relation to the budget, Ms.
Dunnings informed the Board that the revenue shortfall for ?scal year 200']r was $74 million for
the Bureau of Health. During the amendment process the budgeted revenue for ?scal year 2008
was adjusted by roughly $40 million.

Director O'Donnell requested additional data on payer mix and census by facility over the past
three years.

Mr. Small responded that he would look into it, as he was not familiar with what information
existed in the past. He said that getting the information for 2007 and 2008 would not be a

problem.

Director Munoz asked Dr. Robert Simon, Transitional Adviser for President Todd H. Stroger, to
share with the Board his thoughts on the state of the Bureau.

Dr. Simon responded that he behaved censolidation opportunities existed, and increases should
be made in some departments. He stated that he would produce a report for the Board by the

second following meeting.

Director Carvalho suggested that the Board focus on expenditures and revenue and their trends,
rather than an projections. Additionally, he behaved that there needed to be a change in the
mission or another mechaniSm to get people enrolled.

. Chairman Batts asked Ms. Dunnings to share the 2009 Budget calendar with the Board.

Ms. Dunnings replied af?rmatively, and added that they are in the process of developing the

Fiscal Year 2009 Budget with departmental requests, other than the Bureau of Health, due July .
15, 2003. It was the anticipation of the administration to present the budget to the Board of

Commissioners by the end of September, with the hope of approving a budget by ?scal year end.

Page 6
REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors
Meeting of July I l, 2008

NEW BUSINESS (continued)

Mr. Small also responded that due to time constraints placed on the Board to develop a multi-year
and strategic plan within 180 days, the 2008 Health budget would be the ?placeholder" for ?scal
year 2009, which could be revised after longer-term ?nancing and budget decisions are made by
the Systems Board and adopted by the County.

Chairman Batts asked Mr. Small when he would have a timetable for the multi-year plan for the
Board?s review. 

Mr. Small replied that it depended upon whether the Board would adopt a multi-year ?nancing
plan before or as part of the strategic planning. He added that it would be helpful to have a
process discussion on the issue.

Director Carvalho asked how the allocation of tax proceeds is determined.

Ms. Dunnings responded that it is determined by the percentage of that operating unit for the
overall County budget and any statutory requirements

As to transition and transfer of resources from the County, Director Carvalho inquired whether
the resources would shift to the system if the burden shifts to the system.

Elizabeth Reidy, Deputy Chief of the Civil Actions Bureau for the Of?ce of the State?s Attorney,
responded that the existing ordinance, under the Transition section, provides for cooperation from
the Of?ce of the President and various services relating to budget, capital planning and
procurement. It is anticipated that when the System Board is prepared to fully assume those
duties, there would be a transfer of staf?ng and resources to the System if that is how the System

operates.

 

Chairman Batts then called a ?ve minute break.
The Board resumed its deliberations after the break.

Discussion of the status of various components of the including, but not
limited to, those related to ?nances and human resources.

Mr. Small provided the Board with a resume for Pitt Calkin, who will be ?lling the position of
Interim Chief Financial Of?cer of the Bureau of Health Services. This is as a resolt of the
arrangements discussed at the last meeting which resulted in a contract between the Bureau and
'MedAssets. Mr. Small brie?y gave an overview of Mr. Calkin?s esperience and background, and
mentioned his previous work with Marieopa County and Phoenix as they went through their
governance changes. Mr. Small indicated that Mr. Calkin would be present for the next meeting
of the Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors.

Page 
REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors
Meeting of July 11, 2008

NEW BUSINESS (continued)

Mr. Small noted that the positions for Chief Financial Of?cer of Stroger Hospital and Corporate
Compliance Of?cer for the Bureau of Health Services have been posted externally, and
interviewing has already begun.

Mr. Small acknowledged that the Board is interested in receiving draft human resources and
procurement policies and procedures. The Bureau is in the process of soliciting and gathering
similar policies and procedures from major public healthcare organizations across the country to
develop a working draft that will work for the System.

Chairman Batts agreed that these policies and procedures need to be ?nalized as soon as possible,
along with the Board?s Rules.

Director Ansell inquired whether all contracts come to the System Board at any dollar level.

Ms. Reidy responded that currently the System Board uses the Cook County Procurement
Ordinance. As a result of recent changes, all typical contracts greater than $100,000 and
contracts for consulting and professional services greater than $25,000 would come to the System
Board. Additionally, contracts such as af?liation agreements that do not have a ?scal impact
would also come to die System Board.

Director Ansell requested that the Finance Committee direct the administration to prepare a report
for the Board which contains all contracts at any amount for their review.

Ms. Reidy stated that the System?s contracts are currently being processed by the Cook County
Purchasing Agent. The Of?ce of the Purchasing Agent has a website, to which the public has full
access to information on the bids and contracts.

Director Lyne questioned the timing of contract dates without regard to the fiscal year start and
end dams.

Director Carvalho responded that the Board will for sOme time see items like those on the agenda.
He explained that County?s ?scal year starts on December 1, and because technically the County
cannot commit money from a future ?scal year the contracts typically have a provision which
states that the commitment of a future year is subject to future appropriations. He expects to
address the topic of mid?year contract extensiOns and other topics related to purchasing process
ef?ciencies in the Finance Committee.

Director O?Donnell stated that the Board shOuId not only look at the current contracts but also
should develop a review process to prevent cost overruns. -

Director Greenspan stated that there was not enough information provided on some items.

Director Ansell stated that the presentation of items should be restructured to take in the larger
picture.

Page 8
REPORT

Cook Countyr Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting of July 11, 2008
NEW BUSINESS {continued}

Mr. Small commented that these issues would be addressed during the development of the
policies and procedures. He stated that for this meeting, these items were presented as they
would typically be for the County Board?s consideration simply for ease of moving through, but
the intention is to meet the System Board?s needs for infonnation that will allow them to make

and form decisions.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to authorize the System Board to
approve all contracts for the purchase of equipment, supplies, materials or services,
including professional and managerial services, for the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System, which would, in the absence of this interim rule, require approval by the Board of
Commissioners pursuant to the Cook County Code of Ordinances, Article IV, Procurement
and Contracts; provided, however, that all other provisions of Article IV shall apply to the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Motion to receive report from Stephen Martin, MPH, Chief Operating
Of?cer, Cook County Department of Public Health, regarding Case Management
Program Service Reduction.

Dr. Martin presented the report regarding Case Management Program Service Reduction.

Director Munoz asked Dr. Martin how many people the program serves and whatjurisdiction the
Department of Public Health covers.

Dr. Martin responded that the Department covers suburban Cook County, and that the program
has 186,000 interactions annually, with roughly ten interactions per case. 

Director Ansell asked what would be the impact on clientele in transition.

Dr. Martin responded that the Department contacted variouspotential funding entities to secure
replacement funding for the grant losses, but their attempts were unsuccessful. The Department is
beginning to work with the Illinois Department of Human Services to develop a plan on how to
transition the clients to community-based organizations such as CEDA, Aunt Martha's and
Chicago Family Health. He added that if the County?s Ambulatory system was fully operating,
they could move clients into that system and the system could get additional reimbursement for
which the Department is not eligible. The Department will do its best to make the transition as
smooth as possible for the clientele, and will continue to do its case management for high-risk
mothers and babies, which is statutorily the Department?s responsibility.

Director Ansell stated that it looked like a two to three million dollar ?nancial impact this year to
end this program.

Page 9
REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting ofJuly 11, 2008
NEW BUSINESS (continued)

Dr. Martin reSponded that the two to three million dollars referenced in the report is an estimate
that is the result of collective bargaining agreement obligations relating to the displacement or
layoffs of public health nurses, health advocates and clerks due to this program reduction. These
dollars over a four to ?ve month period allows the Department to give notice and to move those
individuals that they could to different positions in the system. He added that the Department is
currently working without a contract; they did not recently execute the contract with the Illinois
Department of Human Services for this program due to the possibility that the service reductions

will take place.

Director Lyne asked if Dr. Martin was requesting the Board to approve the process of winding
down the program, which is necessitated by the cost versus payment.

Dr. Martin responded af?rmatively.

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to approve the request to begin the
process of winding down the Case Management Program.

Dr. Martin informed that Board that there were three components to the item. First, he was there
to inform and update the Board on the status, and upon the Board?s action of receiving and ?ling
the report that would give him the Board?s necessary approval of his recommendations to begin
the service reduction plan. Secondly, the staffing and infrastructure changes that would need to
take place as a result of the service reduction necessitates the action of consideration by the Board
to support the ?nancial part that will be affected by this reduction through the County budget
process. He added that the Department currently Operates through roughly 62% outside funding
and 38% County funding. Thirdly, the action of consideration by the Board to support the
?nancial part related to impersonal costs, or operations that will beaffected by this action, is also
requested.

Chairman Batts read the following recommended. System Board action from Dr. Martin?s
presentation, to be considered by the Board:

Recommended System Board Action

0 To approve this service reduction plan immediately recommended by the Cook County
Departm?t of Public Health management team. With each delay, the costs will be
passed on to the County. -

I To approve in the FY 2009 budget for the Cook County Department of Public Health-to
shift only ?nance positions to the Cook County Department of Public Health corporate
budget that were formerly supported by the Federal Case Management Program. Many
of these finance positions were subsidized by the indirect cost charge to the Federal Case
Management Program contract. Without these personnel, the Cook County Department
of Public Health will not be able to support its remaining forty grants which generate
over $20 million.

Page 10
REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors
Meeting ofJuly 11, 20-03

NEW BUSINESS (continued)

Director Ansell was in support of the ?rst recommended action. As to the second, he requested
that the Bureau Chief Operating Of?cer prepare an assessment of it along with the other needs of
the Department and bring back to the Board for their review. A recommendation after full review
could be made by the Board.

Director Greenspan added that it would also be helpful to understand how the Department
measures the effectiveness of the interventions and what options exist for clientele, such as other

agencies providing the services.

Director Ramirez asked for more information on the wind?down costs and potential impact to the
staff. He also asked that potential staf?ng impacts be included in the information provided to the

Board for items in the future.

Dr. Martin responded that there were one hundred individuals paid directly by the program.
including nurses, health advocates and clerks. The nurses and some clerks will be able to be
absorbed, but roughly eighty individuals would be laid off without additional funding, not
including ?nancial individuals.

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to approve the service reduction
plan immediately recommended in the report by the Cook County of Public
Health management team. THE MOTION CARRIED. Director Ramirez voted present.

Chairman Batts indicated that bullet point number two, which contained recommendations that
may require further action, should be reviewed in the Finance Committee.

 

CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT

Ms. Reidy informedthe Board that contracts and procurement items appearing on the System
Board agendas for approval would not be appearing before the County Board. The Only Health
items that are expected to appear for approval before the County Board are those related
to appointment of medical staff until the System Board has its committees in place.

Mr. Small stated that those bills and claims that need authorization to pay are also expected to
appear on the County Board?s July 22, 2008 Agenda.

Secretary DeLeon added that there may be items that appear on the County Board agendas that
impact the Health System, such as those related to leases and capital planning.

Chairman Batts stated that the System Board should be made aware of these types of items prior
to the County Board?s consideration of them, and should receive a short report after the County
Board considers them.

The Board returned to the consideration of Contracts and Procurements.

Page 11

REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting ofJuly 11, 2008

   
 

CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT contin

 
  
 

 
  


Requesting authorization to enter into and execute the new

gm Adf?E 
for post graduate (PG) residents for clinical services

in Plas aid
Reconstructive Surgery, as per the Cooperative Educational astei? Agjwm fl 2008
(CEMA) Contract No. 05-43- 527, authorized by the Board of ornmissioners on

March 1, 2005 between Stroger Hospital of Cook County an WU 0F
Illinois at Chicago Medical School, Chicago, Illinois. COOK COUNTY

      
   

The Program Addendum will combine the academic and clinical resources of the
University of Illinois at Chicago Medical School to the educational and training
experience of Stroger HOSpital of Cook County. Pursuant to this Program
Addendum, the University of Illinois at Chicago Medical, will provide 1.33 FTE
post graduate residents in the clinical practice of Plastic Surgery and Burn
Surgery to gain training and education. This agreement bene?ts the hospital by
supplementing and enhancing required clinical services to the hospital?s patients
by subspecialists, we would not otherwise be able to recruit. It also affords us
the many bene?ts of collaborating with an academic partner, as described in the
Master Af?liation Agreement.

In addition, Stroger HoSpital of Cook County receives reimbursement from the
Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services as a Teaching HOSpital with an
approved Graduate Medical Education Program in the amount of $24,713.00 for
each Resident. Therefore, based upon the estimated ?scal impact of $105,020.00
less $32,868.29 of projected revenue, the net estimated ?scal impact is
$72,151.71.

Esdmated Fiscal Impact: $105,020.00 (FY 2008: $32,168.00 and FY 2009:
Estimated Medicare Reimbursement potential offset amount:
$32,868.29 (1.33 residents). Contract Period: July 1, 2008 through June 30,
2009. Requisition No. 88970506. (897?272 Account).

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds and future year
funds.

Mr. Small introduced the Medical Director of Stroger Hospital of Cook County, Dr. Maurice
Lemon. Dr. Lemon is the principal interface point on graduate medical education with the
System?s partners.

Dr. Lemon provided the members with a brief overview of the System?s relationships with its
academic partners.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the request for authorization
to enter into and execute the new Program Addendum. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Directors Greenspan and Muiioz recused themselves and voted PRESENT.

 

Page 12
REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting of July 11, 2008

APPROVED

Requesting authorization to enter into and execute the new Pr Addendum

for post graduate (PG) residents for clinical services in Otolary gology 2003
as per the Cooperative Educational Master Agreement (CEMA) ontract . -
41-561, authorized by the Board of Commissioners on June 2006 between
Stroger Hospital. of Cook County and the Northwestern COUNTY
Foundation, Chicago, Illmors, the not for pro?t facul We SPITALS SYSTEM
Northwestern University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois.



CONTRACF AND PROCUREMENT continu

 
 

 

The Program Addendum will combine the academic and clinical resources of the
Northwestern Faculty to the educational and training experience of Stroger
Hospital of Cook County. Pursuant to this Program Addendum, Northwestern
University Faculty Foundation will provide 0.70 equivalent physicians in
Otolaryngology for faculty position coverage, supervision of residents, teaching
and clinical patient care services at the Hospital. This agreement bene?ts the
hospital by supplementing and enhancing required clinical services in
Otolaryngology at Stroger Hospital of Cook County and Oak Forest Hospital of
Cook County that previously were not available for our patients. It also affords
us the many bene?ts of collaborating with an academic partner, as described in
the Master Af?liation Agreement.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $195,000.00. (FY 2003: $65,000.00 and FY 2009:
Contract period: July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009. Requisition
No. 83970511. (397-272 Account). .

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds and future year
funds.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the authorization to enter
into and execute the new Program Addendum. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANMOUSLY.

 

Requesting authorization to enter into a contract with Suburban Primary Health
Care Council, Westchester, Illinois, to provide medical care to ?nancially
eligible suburban Cook County residents.

Reason: The Access to Care Program is the only program of its kind,
providing primary health care to medically indigent re$idents of suburban Cook
County through a network of physicians. This request will allow services for
approximately 2,866 clients. Suburban Primary Health Care Council is a
private not-for?pro?t consortium of the _Department of Public Health,
Community and Ecommic Development Association of Cook County, Inc.
(CEDA) and the Northwest Suburban Cook County Health Care Taskforce.

 

Page 13

REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting of July 1 l, 2008

APPROVED

JUL 1 2003

   
   

BY BOARD OF

GTORS OF THE COOK COU
AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $2,000,000.00. Contract period: December 1, 2007
through November 30, 2008. (890-260 Account). Requisition No. 88900520.

ONTRA

 

AND PROCUREMENT continued

   

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.

Victoria Bigelow, PIesident of the Suburban Primary Health Care Council, provided the members
with an overview and responded to Directors? questions related to the Access to Care Program.

Director Mu?oz, seconded by Director Golden, moved to approve the request for
authorization to enter into the contract. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Director Carvalho voted PRESENT.

 

Requesting authorization to increase by $150,000.00, Contract No. 07?53-218
Rebid from Cavalry Fire Protection Services, LLC, Franklin Park, Illinois, for
maintenance and repair of the ?re sprinkler system for Provident Hospital of

 

Cook County.

Board approved $297,852.00
amount 10-02-07:

Increase requested: 150 000.00
Adjusted amount: $447,852.00

Reason: The increase of the above referenced contract is required to perform an
Emergency, unanticipated repair to the ?re sprinkler system. We have been
noti?ed by the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH) that we are non-
compliant with a Life Safety code regarding sprinkler system con?guration and
resulting annunciation to water flow associated with a design ?aw, which has
only recently been identi?ed. Due to the time constraints and possible
rcpercussions, it is imperative we address this issue immediately. The sense of
urgency is necessary in order to submit evidence of a corrective action plan
to IDPH by September 8, 2008 . Our current contractor has provided a cost
quotation to correct this; however, it exceeds the current value of the contract.
The expiration date of the current contract is October 1, 2010.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $150,000.00. (890-450 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.

Sidney Thomas, Chief Operating Of?cer of Provident HoSpital of Cook County, provided a brief
overview of the contract increase request.

Page 14

REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting of July 11, 2008

APPROVED

3 JUL 1 1 tone

BY BOARD OF
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
Director Butler, seconded by Director Greenspan, moved to approve the request for
authorization to increase the contract. THE MOTION CARRIED.

    

    
  

  
  

 

 

continued

 

Director Carvalho voted PRESENT.

 

Requesting authorization to extend for (4) days, Contract No. 05-72-220 with
Ambulance Transportation, Inc., Tinley Park, Illinois, to provide ambulance
transportation services for the Ambulatory and Community Health Network of
Cook County, Cermak Health Services of Cook County, Oak Forest Hospital of
Cook County, Provident Hospital of Cook County and the Ruth M. RothStein
Core Center. 

Reason: This request is necessary to utilize available funds during the interim
period from expiration of existing contract on July 17, 2008 to the award
and execution of the new contract on July 22, 2003. Approximately
$1,072,913.00 remains on this contract for the Ambulatory and Community
Health Network of Cook County; $395,670.00 for Cermak Health Services of
Cook County; $84,350.00 for Oak Forest Hospital of Cook County; $136,669.00
for Provident Hospital of Cook County; and $1,000.00 for the Ruth M. Rothstein
Core Center. The expiration date of the current contract is July 17, 2008.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract extension: July 18, 2008 through July
21, 2003. 

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the request for authorization
to extend the contract. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Requesting authorization to increase by $66,250.00. Purchase Order No. 159357
with Excel Answering Services, Chicago, Illinois, for telephone answering

 

. services.
Original Purchase Order amount 10-26-07: $24,900.00
Increase requested: 66 250.00
Adjusted amount: $91,150.00

Reason: This service is provided so that there is seven (7) day, twenty-four (24)
hour, answering service availability for patients to contact their physician or
physician on call. This request is to pay outstanding invoices for services
rendered from March 1, 2008 through June 30, 2003, and to extend the purchase
order through October 31, 2008 to allow continuation of services during the
rebid of Contract No. 07-85-379. The bids are scheduled to open on July 17,
(continued)

 

Page 15
REPORT

 

AP ROVE Cook County Health and Hospitals System

1

Board of Directors
Meeting ofJuly 11, 2008

JUL 1 2008
AND PROCUREMENT (continued)

BY BOARD DillRE?f-?-Jll AND Hospm?rs? 1on, suf?cient time 15 necessary for 1mplementauon of a new

 

answering service system that requires installation of correct identi?er numbers
for each Ambulatory Clinics, a separate telephone line for ambulance service for
the Obstetrics patients, as well as creation of a new phone tree for all -
Ambulatory and Community Health Network Clinic.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $66,250.00. (893-268 Account).
Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.

Director Butler asked Cook County Purchasing Agent Carmen Triche?Colvin to explain why a
contract increase that would essentially bring the total to triple the original amount was necessary.

Ms. Triche?Colvin explained the background on the contract and the reason for the increase
request. She stated that in the previous year, the previous vendor had gone into default and an
emergency contract had been entered into. She added that delays in receiving information were
also experienced during the bidding process. 

Director Ansell, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to approve the request for
authorization to increase and extend the purchase order. THE MOTION CARRIED

unmousm.

 

Requesting authorization to advertise for bids for MRI services.

Contract period: December 3, 2008 through December 2, 2009. (898-260
Account). Requisition No. 98980007.

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2009 funds.

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Butler, moved to approve the request. for
authorization to advertise far bids. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

RequeSting authorization to enter into a Cooperative Educational Master
Agreement (CEMA) with Northwestern Institute of Health and Technology,
Chicago. Illinois. The purpose of the Cooperative Educational Master
Agreement is to set forth arrangements between the County of Cook and
Northwestern Institute of Health and Technology, whereby, Stroger Hospital of
Cook County will provide a training site for the students seeking a degree or
certi?cation in one or more medical or health profession.

Page 16

 

 

AP ROVE Cook County Health and 

Board of Directors
Meeting of July 1 l, 2008

. JUL 1 'i 2008
CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT (continued)

 

 

 

BY BOARD OF
D??l?n?g?m :ompletion of the clinical training program, students are eligible
to for Iin exams. After passing the exams, the students can be recruited

to ?ll the County vacancies at the hospital. This is an excellent recruitment tool
in that the new graduates are familiar with the County af?liates.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract period: September 1, 2008 through
August 31, 2012. Requisition No. 88970514.

Director Muiioz, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the request for
authorization to enter into the Cooperative Educational Master Agreement. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Requesting authorization to advertise for bids for extra corporeal shock-wave
lithotripsy services with provided equipment for the Department of Surgery,
Division of Urology.

Contract period: October 7, zoos through October 6, 2010. (397?273 Account).
Requisition No. 88970531.

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to approve the request for
authorization to advertise for bids. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Requesting authorization to advertise for bids for testing of secondary ?re
suppression systems, ?re pumps and ?re extinguishers and for monitoring of ?re
alarm systems for the Department of Professional Affairs, Division of Building
and Grounds.

Contract period: October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2011. (890-449
Account). Requisition No. 88900534.

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 and future year funds.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Ansell, moved to approve the request for
authorization to advertise for bids. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Requesting authorization to increase by $98,000.00 and extend from June 21,
2008 through August 31, 2008, Contract No. 05-73?269 with Beckman Coulter,
Inc., Miami, Florida, for the purchase of reagents and supplies with vendor
provided analytic flow cytometer system and sample preparation system for the
determination of human immunode?ciency virus (HIV) and 
cells for the Department of Pathology, Division of Immunology.

Page 1?
REPORT

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors

APPROVED 1 112008

QW


HEALTH AND HO 

 
   

 
   
  

 

 
 

ount 06-21-05: $1,273,964.40
Increase requested: 98 000.00
Adjusted amount: $1,381,964.40

 

Reason: This request is necessary to meet and maintain testing of samples
received for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and cells
identi?cation during the execution, implementation, perfonnance of correlation
studies and training of personnel for the new contract requested for bureau-wide
laboratory testing procedures. The expiration date of the current contract was
June 20, 2003. 

Estimated Fiscal Impact: $98,000.00. Contract extension: June 21, 2008 through
August 31, 2008. (897-365 Account).

Approval of this item would commit Fiscal Year 2008 funds.

Director Butler, seconded 'by Director Ansell, moved to approve the request for
authorization to increase and extend the contract. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Requesting authorization to increase by $77,000.00 and extend for three (3)
months, Contract No. 04-72-693 with Northwestem Pharmaceutical Supply
Corporation, Lincolnwood, Illinois, for the purchase of reagents and consumable
supplies for vendor provided chemistry analyzers.

 

Board approved anmunt 09-21-04: $1,472,087.10
Previous increase approved 09-18?07: 92,000.00
Previous increase approved 02-20-08: 81,500.00
This increase requested: 77 000.00
Adjusted amount: $1,722,587.10

Reason: This request enables John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital?s Biochemistry
Laboratory to maintain the testing of patient blood samples. The extension will
provide the needed time to prepare speci?cations, receive and evaluate bids,
award contract, and train staff and implement the chemistry instrumentation. The
bureau-wide laboratory consolidation will achieve economies of scale and
standardization. It will enable the John H. Su'oger Jr. Ho5pital Laboratdry to be
the "reference laboratory? for the health system. Currently the laboratory
performs over 3 million tests in biochemistry yearly and after consolidation, the
test volume will be over 6 million tests annually. The expiration date of the
current contract is August 31, 2008.

Page 18

REPORT

Cook County Health and HosPitaJs System
Board of Directors
Meeting of July I l, 2003

  
 
 
 
 
 

 

APPROVED

$77,000.00 Contract extension: September 1, 2003
November 30 2008. (897- 365 Account)

 

would commit Fiscal Year 2003 funds.

Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to approve the request for authorization
to increase and exteud the contract, as amended. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANIMOUSLY.

 

Requesting authorization to renew Contract No. 05-43-598 with Rush University
Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, for the Toxikon Consortium Medical
Educational Affiliation Agreement between Stroger Hospital of Cook County,
Rush University Medical Center flkla Rush-PresbyteriandSt. Luke?s Medical
Center, Chicago, Illinois, the Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois,
Chicago, Illinois and the Metropolitan Chicago Healtbcare Council, Ghieago
Chicago Illinois, to allow each facility participation in the
Toxikon Fellowship Program in Medical Toxicology and related clinical and
clinical training program.

ReaSOn: The Hospital is requesting to exercise the option to renew the agreement
for a one-year term. The Toxikon Fellowship Program in Medical Toxicology
shall be recognized as a Fellowship Program sponsored by the County through
Stroger Hospital of Cook County and which is af?liated with the University of
Illinois, Rush Medical College and the Illinois Poison Center. Residents in
toxicology and programs af?liated with the toxikon consortium will continue to
utilize the Cook County Bureau of Health Services af?liates for the clinical
component of their respective programs.

Estimated Fiscal Impact: None. Contract period: July 1, 2008 through June 30,
2009.

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Muiioz, moved to approve the request for
authorization to the contract, as amended. THE MOTION CARRIED.

Director Ansell voted PRESENT.

 

PERSONNEL MATTERS

Personnel matters concerning the recruitment of an interim Chief Executive
Of?cer and interim Chief Medical Of?cer for the and status of plans to
?nd a permanent Chief Executive Of?cer and Chief Medical Of?cer for the



Page 19
REPORT

Cook County Health and HoSpitals System
Board of Directors

Meeting of July 1 1, 2003

PERSONNEL MATTERS {continued}

Director Ansell, seconded by Director Butler, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into executive session to discuss personnel matters, pursuant to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act, 5 ILCS et seq., which permits closed meetings fer consideration
of ?the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
speci?c employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body or against legal
counsel for the public body to determine its validity?. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Lyne, seconded by Director Butler, moved to adjourn the executive session and
convene into regular session. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Director Ansell asked Secretary Deleon to provide to the Directors the procedures necessary to .
call a committee meeting.

Secretary DeLeon responded that he would electronically mail the information to the Directors.
He added that there were some issues relating to the recording of the meetings, speci?cally with
transport and set up of the audio recording equipment.

Director Carvalho pointed out that under the Open Meetings Act, only closed sessions were
required to be recOrded. 

Chairman Batts asked Secretary DeLeon to call upon the registered public Speakers.

Secretary DeLeon stated that there were none.

 

ADJOURNMENT
Director Muiioz, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

?/mm Brit:

Mr. Warren L. Batts, Chairman

we?; B. DeLeon, Secreta?fy"

**The audio recording for this meeting is available from the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board,
118 North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, Illinois 60602

