REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 17, 2008
ATTENDANCE

Present: Chairman Luis Munoz, MD, Chairman of the Board Warren L- Batts and Directors
Hon. Jerry Butler; Benn Greenspan, MPH, Heather B. O'Donnell, JD,

LLM (5)

Also Present: Director Jerry Butler, Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. Deputy State?s Attorney, Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Elizabeth Reidy - Deputy Chief, Civil
Actions Bureau, Of?ce of the State?s Attorney; Michelle Agrest Senior Manager,
Deloitte Touche; Laura Barman Cook County Auditor; Donna Dunnings Chief
Financial Officer of Cook County; Joseph Fratto Chief of Staff to President Todd H.
Stroger; Patrick J. Hagan Lead Client Partner, Deloitte dc Touche; John Morales Cook
County Comptroller and Acting Interim Chief Financial Of?cer of Stroger Hospital of
Cook County; Don O?Callaghan - Healthcare Partner, Deloitte 8r. Touche; Cook County
Commissioner Anthony J. Peraiea; Deborah Santana Office of the Secretary to the
Board; David Small Chief Operating Of?cer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services;

Ladies and Gentlemen:

Your Audit Committee of the?Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System met
pursuant to notice on Thursday, July 17, 2003 at the hour of 7:30 AM- at 1900 West Polk Street, Second

Floor, Chicago, Illinois.

Your ?Committee has considered the following items and upon adoption of this report, the
recommendations follow.

Deborah Santana, of the Of?ce of the Secretary to the Board, called the roll of members and it was
determined that a quorum was present.

Chairman Mu?oz welcomed the members of the Audit Committee and gave brief remarks.

Presentation by Patrick T. Driseoil, Jr.

Chairman Munoz called upon- Patrick T. Driseoll, Jr., Deputy State?s Attomey and Chief of the Civil
Actions Bureau, to address the committee.

Mr. Driscoll stated that Section 38-88 of the Ordinance that creates the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System talks about managerial and ?nancial oversight; the important parts
of the Ordinance that will apply to the Audit Committee and to the Board is as follows: it is mandated by
the Ordinance in subsection a(l) that the System Board appoint a certi?ed public accountant to do an
annual audit of the System?s Board?s ?nancial statement, and then the County Board can direct a
managerial and ?nancial assessment as part of its oversight through the ordinance which can be done on
an annual basis. The County Board also does a comprehensive annual ?nancial report which at this time

REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 17, 2003

PAGE 2

it is underway. Further, Mr. Driscoll stated that the oversight to which the County Board refers in the
ordinance can either be done by the County Auditor or by outside auditors hired by the County. The
System Board must appoint a certi?ed public accountant. In conclusion, Mr. Driscoll stated that these
were his observations about the audit issues that are created by the Ordinance.

Board Chairman Batts asked if the System Board would organize and monitor the con?ict of interest.

Mr. Driscoll responded that when the rules are adopted there can be a code of conduct included within
that would cover con?icts of interest. These must be disclosed and may require recusal when the issue

comes before the Board.
Board Chairman Baits asked to which Committee would the Corporate Compliance. Of?cer report.

David Small, Chief Operating Officer, Cook County Bureau of Health Services stated that the Corporate
Compliance O?icer would report to the Audit Committee unless there is an establishment of a separate
Corporate Compliance Committee.

Director Greenspan asked who from the Systein would staff the function when an audit is performed for
the System Board as part of a County audit.

Mr. Driscoll stated that it would be the Chief Financial Officer and the individuals under his direction
who would be staf?ng the audit process.

Director Greenspan asked who staffs that function in the absence of a Chief Financial Of?cer.
Mr. Driscoll stated that at this time there is an Interim Chief Financial Officer in place.

Mr. Small introduced the Interim Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Pitt Calida. Mr. Small stated that he had
provided Mr. Calkin?s resume at the last Board Meeting. He added that internal audit ?mctions in
relationship to external audits would fall under his of?ce.

Director Greenspan asked if at this time a set of working papers or a summary of the 2007 Audit was
available for the System Board?s review.

Mr. Small stated that Cook County Comptroller John Morales will address that at the next item of
business.

Chairman Mutter. asked to let the record re?ect that Director Butler is present.-

In a point of clari?cation, Mr. Small stated that it is a question that Mr. Morales could address. However,
the System Board will need to know the timing that is required and what steps the System Board may
want to take in terms of ?nding, selecting, choosing and contracting with an external audit ?rm to begin

the 2003 audit.

Audit Committee Rules

Chairman Mutioz asked for a motion with regard to Audit Committee Rules.

REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 17, 2008

PAGE 3

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O'Donnell, moved to direct the Bureau Chief Operating
Of?cer to work with the Of?ce of the Cook County State?s Attorney to develop Audit Committee
Rules to be reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.

Director O?Donnell asked if the System Board will develop rules for each committee.

Mr. Driscoll stated that it is the recommendation of the State?s Attomey?s Of?ce that the System Board of
Directors adopt overall rules that will govern the operation of the System Board and within those rules
can adopt a mission statement for each committee rather than having each committee adopt its own rules

and regulation.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to amend the previous motion to
re?ect the discussion that took place. The motion would read, that the Audit Committee
recommends to the Board that the Bureau Chief Operating Of?cer work with the Office of the
Cook County State?s Attorney to develop Rules for the Board to include a charge for each speci?c
committee and to be reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors at its next meeting. THE

MOTION TO ANIEND CARRIED UNANINIOUSLY.

On the main motion, as amended, a voice vote' was taken and THE MOTION, AS AIVIENDED
CARRIED UNANMOUSLY.

Preseltation by Cook County Comptroller John Morales

Chairman Mu?oz asked John Morales, Cook County Comptroller and Acting interim Chief Financial
Of?cer of Stroger Hospital of Cook County, to address the Committee.

Mr. Morales stated that he would con?ne his remarks only to the Stroger Hospital or the Health System
audit, as any items that are all-inclusive requiring a perspective or decision from the Cook County Chief
Financial Officer would be addressed by Donna Dunnings.

Mr. Morales introduced Laura Burman, the Cook County Auditor. He stated that she is a valuable
resource available to assist the System Board with any questions that they might have. He also
introduced Mr. Calvin McGee, Chief Financial Of?cer at Cermak Health Facility, Mr. John Cookinham,
Chief Financial Of?cer of Oak Forest Hospital, and Ms. Dorothy Loving, Chief Financial Of?cer of

Provident Hospital. He added that Mr. McGee has been the point person for the Health Audit for Fiscal 

Year 2007 from an Operating day-to?day level.

Mr. Morales stated that at this time he would give a brief overview of the Fiscal Year 2007 Audit. The
overall audit has gone exh'emely well; the Health Audit itself is probably the most complex within the
Cook County'organization because it is not as straight-forward as the other offices. The time table for the
Health System Audit completion is on target. Every week the individuals involved at the County meet
with Mr. Patrick Hagan, Partner with Deloitte Sc Touche, Mr. Don O?Callaghan with Deloitte Touche,
and Ms. Michelle Agrest, Senior Manager with Deloitte Touche.

Further, Mr. Morales stated that ?'om a historical perspective the System Board should have a clear view
of where the system has been in the last [6 to 18 months when Dr. Simon was the interim Chief. At that
thne the County inherited a system that was facing dif?culties and the audit ?inction itself was not where
it needed to be. Changes needed to be made based on the management letter ?'om Fiscal Year 2006

REPORT OF THE AUDIT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 17, 2008

PAGE 4

which would help improve the overall ?nancial controls. They were able to address several issues. He
added that the Fiscal Year 2006 Audit Report was delivered on time, on May 31, 2006.

Another issue previously discussed was the Board?s authority to contract an independent accounting firm
to be able to perform the annual audit. At this time and because of the newness of the arrangements that
have been put in place to separate the System Board from the County, there was the disclosure of a multi-
year contract that was entered into by the County with Deloitte Touche.

Director O?Donnell stated that her understanding is that Deloitte Touche does the overall County Audit
and Ernest Young does the Health audit.

Mr. Morales stated that Ernest Young did the 2002-2006 Health audits but in 2007 the County decided
to consolidate under Deloitte dc Touche.

Director Greenspan requested for a summary of the Hem-rent status of 2007 Audit.

Mr. Morales stated that they are still wrapping things up; all the documentations and forms of disclosures
have been provided

Director Green5pan asked Mr. Morales if he was satisf' ed that 1n August the Board has not received the
wrap up of an audit for the period ended November 2007.

Mr. Morales replied that over the years the Combined Annual Financial Report (CAFR) has been issued
later then the year?end closing. Theplanning stage is to start to roll back the amount of months going
??om where-it was and roll it back everyr year and get it back as time moves onto be able to have the
report released at a much earlier time frame.

Board Chairman Batts stated that the System Board should ask the public accountants if they can let us
know what the earliest date would be to deliver an Audit for the hospital system.

Mr. Small asked Mr. Morales to inform the Committee when the draft management report might be
available for review and discussion.

Mr. Morales replied that the target date'for both the Health System, as well as the entire County, is for the
end of August.

Chairman Mu?oz stated to let the record re?ect that Cook County Commissioner Anthony Peraica was
present.

Presentation by Deloitte Touche -

Chairman Mu?oz called upon Patrick J. Hagan, Lead Client Partner of Deloitte Touche, to address the
committee. 

Mr. Hagan introduced Don O?Callaghan, Healthcare Partner at Deloitte Touche, and Michelle Agrest,
Senior Manager at Deloitte 35 Touche, who runs the day?to?day operations.

REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMNIITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 17, 2008

PAGE 5

Chairman Mu?oz stated to let the record re?ect that Joseph Frarto, Chief of Staff to President Todd H.
Stroger is present.

Mr. Hagan distributed an overview of his presentation.

Chairman Mu?oz asked Mr. Hagan to come back to the Audit Committee with some recommendations
for the System in order to facilitate the audit process.

Mr. Hagan replied af?rmatively.

Board Chairman Batts asked how other Public Hospitals that are connected to a County determine what
their total costs are so that the hospital is able to recover that total cost.

Mr. Hagan stated that in some cases there are intergovernmental agreements; in some cases the process is
done by a firm that does cost allocations.

Mr. O'Callaghan stated that if the System Board was trying to benchmark the organization against a
number of other similar healthcare provider organizations, it would be critical to have the understanding

of the total cost of running the business.

Mr. O'Callaghan added that that there are inter-fund types of transactions that take place between the
County and the health care operations.

Mr. Small stated that on an annualized scale basis, the County estimates the malpractice cost for the
County to be approximately $70 to 75 million. Further, Mr. Small stated that it would be a
misrepresentation to say that costs are not important; the County is actually being required under the
federal government to move to a full?cost reimbursement recognition basis. In conclusion, Mr. Small
stated that there are caps and those caps are based on cost. Costs have to be accurately re?ected so that

the County can get the maximum reimbursement.
Director Greenspan asked when the reconciliation occurs.

Mr. Morales stated that the 2006 Audit was just completed with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services. He added that the County has an excellent Director of Cost Reimbursement, Mr. Robert Vais.

Board Chairman Batts asked if it would be fair to say that the total cost not included on the. System's
books ranges between ID to 15% of the total cost. 

Mr. Morales stated that it would not be unreasonable.

Director O?Donnell asked if it would be possible for Mr. Vais to give a presentation on how he calculates
costs.

Mr. Small stated that it can be arranged.

Mr. Hagan reiterated that Mr. O?Callaghan and Ms. Agrest are the focus team on the health system and
are available to come back to the committee at any point; he is responsible for the overall Combined
Annual Financial Report (CAFR) and is also available to meet with the committee.

REPORT OF-THE AUDIT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY 17, 2003

PAGE 6

Chairman Mu?oz encouraged Mr. Hagan to report back to the Audit Committee.
Board Chairman Batts asked if there is an internal audit function.

Mr. Small stated that Provident Hospital has recently brought on an individual who is assigned to be
doing internal audit. There is not an internal audit function for the system Overall. From-time to time the
Bureau of Health asks the County Auditor for assistance, however some of the resources at the County
Auditor?s of?ce have recently moved over to key positions with the System. In conclusion, Mr. Small
stated that it will bethe Bureau of Health?s recommendation to the Audit Committee and to the Board as
a whole that an internal audit'function be deveIOped. Appropriation of dollars and resources is essential

for this.
Director O?Donnell inquired whether the internal audit function position was included in the 2003 budget.

Mr. Small responded that there currently rs no budget position or resources for an internal audit function
position either the current 2008 budget or in the place-holder 2009 budget

Mr Hagan stated that he rs providing the Audit Committee with the Public Sector Audit Committee
Resource Guide and other materials.

Corporate Compliance Issues

Chairman Mu?oz asked Mr. Patrick Driscoll discuss some of the System Board?s obligations with regard
to corporate compliance.

Mr. Driscoll stated that the Ordinance does provide generally ?rnctional duties of the System Board; the
State?s Attorney?s Office will be working with staff to ?nalize procedures.

Mr. Small stated that at the System Board?s direction, the recruiunent process for the position of
Corporate Chief Compliance Of?cer has begun. The position has been posted both internally and
externally.

Mr. Small stated that it is the intention to get the corporate compliance program up and running as rapidly
as possible. He added that this was one area of the system that unfortunately over the last several years
suffered from staff reductions; it is a program that has languished and needs to be ?rlly reinvigorated.

Chairman Mu?oz asked how it is presently reported.

Mr. Small stated that it happens in a variety of ways. Staffers may bring it'directly to their Union
representative and it finds its way up the ladder. The individual may take it to their department head or to
the head of their particular Operating unit or hospital. Some inquiries have gone directly to the
Commissioners and President Stroger?s office.

Director Greenspan asked if the Committee would want to review the candidates before a Corporate
Compliance Officer _is engaged.

Board Chairman Batts stated that it would be a wise and proper thing to do. He asked for a motion.

REPORT OF THE AUDIT COWEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
JULY '17, 2008

PAGE 7

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to have the Audit Committee review
the candidates before a Corporate Compliance Of?cer is engaged. THE MOTION CARRIED

UNANIMOUSLY.

Presentation by S_tgte Sen_ator Jeffrey Schoenberg, 9til District

Chairman Munoz informed the Committee that State Senator Jeffrey Schoenberg had a con?ict and could 
not attend the meeting.

Mr. Small provided background information on the issue- He stated that during the regular Legislative
Session that had recently ended, Senator Schoenberg introduced a resolution to the appropriate committee
in the Senate which called for the Inspector General to engage in a management audit of Stroger Hospital.
At the time that the resolution was introduced, the President's Of?ce, through the appropriate vehicle,
communicated to both Senator Schoenberg?s of?ce and to others on the appropriate committees that the
County felt that it was premature. Any discussions that happened with Senator Sohoenbergwith the
possibility of audits had occurred long before the System Board had been established by the ordinance, so
the thought was to let this Board get established and assimilated with the charge that it has been given at

this time.

In conclusion, Mr. Small stated that the Senate resolution was ultimately defeated, however, the Senator
is still interested' 1n discussing the subject.

Director Greenspan stated that it is his understanding that if such legislation is resurrected by the Senator,
it- would not happen until veto session, which is three to four months away. It may be wise for the
committee to get its rules and structure in place and make use of such a review to help the committee
members restructure, examine and look for and deficits in the organ izationas a way of planning

into the next ?scal year.

Director O?Donnell asked 11" there is a downside to doing an audit or are any funds put at risk as a result of
the outcome of the audit

Mr. Small stated that question is hard to answer because in the resolution language was vague and its
scope was unde?ned. It was proposed to ask the Inspector General to Conduct a ?Management Audit?.
In conclusion, Mr. Small stated that it needs to be ajoint discussion so that it is the most pro?table use of
time and energy on the part of the individuals involved and the information that is presented is bene?cial

to everyone.

Director Greenspan asked if it would be useful as a starting point to invite Senator Schoenberg to come
and address the Committee.

Chairman Mu?oz stated it may be a wise thing to do to listen to what the Senator?s intensions are and 
determine how they could work together.

Board Chairman Baits stated that the System Board has two charters that need to be acted upon quickly;
one of which is to hire a CEO to build the organization to a reasonable level of management; and to
develop a strategy for the hospital system within 180 days. Anything that would divert tiine, manpower

REPORT OF THE AUDIT OF THE BOARD-OF DIRECTORS OF THE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

JULY 17, 2008

PAGE 8

or resources from getting that done would not be helpful to the System Board in executing their
responsibilities at this point.

Chairman Mu?oz stated that the Audit Committee should contact the Senator and speak to him to find out
the issues and what his concerns are.

Director Greenspan, seconded by Director O?Donnell, moved to adjourn. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING WAS ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health

and Hospitals System


Dr. Luis Mu?oz?l?innan

 

Attest:

   

atthew B. Deleon, Secretary

The audio recording for this meeting is available ?-om the Office of the Secretary to the Board, 118
North Clark Street, Room 567, Chicago, IL 60602.

