Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, December
13, 2013 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Carvalho called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman David Carvalho, Vice Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler; Lewis
M. Collens; Ada Mary Gugenheim; M. Hill Hammock; Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, FACHE; Luis
Muñoz, MD, MPH; and Carmen Velasquez (9)

Absent:

Directors Reverend Calvin S. Morris, PhD and Dorene P. Wiese, EdD (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply
Chain Management
Krishna Das, MD – System Director of Quality,
Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation
Steven Glass – Executive Director of Managed Care
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel
Gladys Lopez – Chief of Human Resources

II.

Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Joy Wykowski – Director of Intergovernmental
Affairs

Public Speakers
Chairman Carvalho asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speaker:
1.

III.

George Blakemore Concerned Citizen

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, November 22, 2013
Director Lerner, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved the approval of the Minutes of
the Board of Directors Meeting of November 22, 2013. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, December 6, 2013
 Contracts and Procurement Items (detail was provided as attachment to Board Agenda)
Director Butler, seconded by Director Lerner, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Finance Committee Meeting of December 6, 2013.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 1 of 44

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, December 13, 2013
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, December 11, 2013
 Medical Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes
 FY2014 Quality and Performance Improvement Plan
Dr. Krishna Das, System Director of Quality, Patient Safety, Regulatory and Accreditation, provided an
overview of the presentation made at the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting regarding the proposed
FY2014 Quality and Performance Improvement Plan.
While discussing the information on key indicators, Chairman Carvalho stated that it is good to see a target that
is higher than baseline, but it is impossible to understand that target outside the context of a benchmark. Dr.
Das stated that, except for the patient satisfaction indicators, the System is at about the national medians for
most performance areas. They are setting fairly aggressive targets; for example, the core measure target is the
top ten percentile, so it is at or above the tenth percentile in performance. Director Collens stated that adding
another column and indicating whether public safety-net hospital benchmarks or national median benchmarks
are being used would be very helpful.
Director Collens, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the Minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of December 11, 2013. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

IV.

Action Items
A. Contracts and Procurement Items (Attachment #1)
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, provided an overview of the requests
presented for the Board’s consideration. The Board reviewed and discussed the requests.
Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, and Steven Glass, Executive Director of Managed Care, provided
additional information on the requests.
With regard to request number 1, Chairman Carvalho noted that this is not $32 million going into and staying
in the pockets of the vendor; $30.3 million of the $32 million is for payment of claims. Mr. Glass provided
additional information. He stated that, whenever a CountyCare member utilizes their pharmacy benefits and
goes to a community pharmacy to have a prescription filled, that community pharmacy bills CountyCare. The
bill to CountyCare is managed by Catamaran - the pharmacy will bill CountyCare through Catamaran,
Catamaran pays that pharmacy and looks to the System to reimburse it. The System uses the Medicaid fee
schedule for reimbursement of claims; this includes dispensing rates. Chairman Carvalho stated that the
vendor itself is paid an administrative fee, but the bulk of the dollars relating to this request are to pay for the
claims that vendor is administering.
Chairman Carvalho inquired whether it could have been arranged for Catamaran to interact with the claims,
and have Cook County instead pay the claims directly, rather than having Catamaran pay the claims and be
reimbursed by the County. Dr. Raju stated that timeliness of payments is an important factor – if prescription
claims are not paid in a timely fashion, then the next prescription for a CountyCare member may not be filled
if the community pharmacy is not being paid in a timely manner.

Page 2 of 44

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, December 13, 2013
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
A.

Contracts and Procurement Items (continued)
Mr. Glass reviewed the scope of services under request number 2. He referenced the claims payments
discussion that was held earlier regarding Catamaran; similarly, under this contract, Automated Health
Systems (AHS) processes the claims received from the System’s contracted medical providers. When those
providers see a CountyCare member, they send a bill to CountyCare to be paid. AHS manages that for the
System - they adjudicate the claim to be correct and valid, pay the vendor, provide detail to the System on
what was paid, and the System reimburses AHS.
Mr. Glass stated that the administrative services provided to the System are related to call center services and
other back-office functions. He noted that this is a much heavier administrative contract, in comparison to the
Catamaran contract. Adjudicating a claim on a prescription is very technical, and a lot of that function is
handled through computer systems, which is why the administrative costs for Catamaran are much lower.
With AHS, the System is actually buying administrative support; they are buying services relating to the call
center, reporting, clinical/medical management and utilization - there are more people involved in the work
that is being done by AHS.
Director Lerner stated that the System is really operating two or three entities within this health system - one
of the key entities is CountyCare and the Managed Care operation moving forward. Because there are specific
contracts relating to the Managed Care enterprise that are very different than the contracts that go into running
a hospital, he suggested that Managed Care be viewed as a subsidiary organization. The Board could review
the capital, contractual, revenue and expense issues, and spend some time looking at the administrative
expenses versus the costs of the direct provision of services, but Managed Care discussions and review of its
issues would not be mixed in with discussion of everyday hospital-type contractual matters, such as staffing
contracts and temporary nursing contracts. Dr. Raju responded that this is a good suggestion; he added that
Waiver revenues and expenses are kept in a separate cost center. He stated that the administration is in the
process of selecting one back-office function vendor to do most of the CountyCare functions, rather than
having five or ten vendors performing the functions. Once that vendor is in place, the System will be able to
better review the revenues and expenses relating to CountyCare; he noted that he expects to present a monthly
overall picture relating to that to the Finance Committee. And, as he has stated in the past, Dr. Raju’s plan is
to bring these functions in-house as the System staff develops the expertise and experience needed to perform
these functions.
During the discussion of request number 4, Ms. Besenhofer stated that this document is an umbrella document
serving as the framework for specific agreements set forth in exhibits, which may be entered into during the
period of the Master Agreement; it could cover matters such as those related to CountyCare, academic
affiliations, clinical services and operational collaborations.
Director Hammock, seconded by Vice Chairman Ramirez, moved the approval of request
numbers 1 through 4. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Chairman Carvalho abstained and voted PRESENT on request number 4.

Page 3 of 44

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, December 13, 2013
Page 4

IV.

Action Items (continued)
B. Proposed 2014 CCHHS Board Meeting Dates (Attachment #2)
Chairman Carvalho stated that, at the last Board Meeting, the compilation of the various preferences persons
had expressed regarding future meeting dates was presented. The highest preferences were expressed for three
different configurations: 1) Board meetings held on Thursdays; 2) the current situation, where the Board meets
on Friday and the Human Resources and Finance Committees, if they so chose, could continue the pattern of
the past and would meet on the prior Friday serially; and 3) the Human Resources and Finance Committees
would schedule their meetings on the morning of the regular Board meeting held on a Friday, preceding the
Board meeting.
Based on those three configurations, Chairman Carvalho stated that a set of Friday and Thursday dates have
been put together and have been distributed to the Board. In terms of framing the discussion, Chairman
Carvalho first informally polled the Directors as to their preferences to either Thursday or Friday Board
meetings. Five Directors preferred Friday meetings, two Directors preferred Thursday meetings, and two
Directors did not have a preference.
Chairman Carvalho indicated that, based on the informal poll results, the Board would focus on the two
different Friday configurations. The Board discussed the two options.
Director Collens, seconded by Director Hammock, moved that the Board hold meetings on
Fridays with only the Finance Committee meeting preceding the Board meeting. On the
motion, a roll call vote was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Directors Gugenheim, Hammock, Lerner and Muñoz (4)

Nays:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Collens and
Velasquez (5)

Absent: Directors Morris and Wiese (2)
THE MOTION FAILED.
Vice Chairman Ramirez, seconded by Director Gugenheim, moved that the Board keep the
current schedule setup, with Board meetings on Fridays and no committees meeting on the
same day preceding the Board meeting. On the motion, a roll call vote was taken, the votes
of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Chairman Carvalho, Vice Chairman Ramirez and Directors Butler, Collens,
Gugenheim, Hammock, Lerner, Muñoz and Velasquez (9)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Directors Morris and Wiese (2)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

Page 4 of 44

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, December 13, 2013
Page 5

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
A.

Board Education - Intergovernmental Affairs Update (Attachment #3)
Joy Wykowski, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs, provided an update on the following subjects:
Intergovernmental Affairs Overview; Federal Fiscal Timeline; Federal Legislation / Rule Making; State
Legislation / Rule Making; and Government Relations / Advocacy. The Board reviewed and discussed the
information.
During the discussion regarding the potential impact of the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) physician
Medicare payment cuts, Dr. Raju noted that last year, the System collected close to $9.6 million in Medicare
physician billing – a 27% cut to that amount would be huge. The amount of the payment cut is supposed to be
2% per year; because Congress continues to postpone the issue and cuts, over the last eleven years the amount
of potential cuts has grown to 22-28%. Congress is going to extend the issue for another three months, but
they need to find the money in the budget to pay for it, so it will come back again next year. Today it does not
make a big difference, but it will make a huge difference in the strategic goal of the System, especially as
CountyCare evolves, and CountyCare starts to have a Medicare product within it. He explained that, because
there are people who are aging out of the System into Medicare, and the System does not want to lose them,
the System will need to create a Medicare product in a few years within CountyCare. Chairman Carvalho
stated that the way Congress solves the issue of SGR may be a big deal – the way Congress partially solved the
problem of how to pay for the ACA was by cutting funding for Medicaid Disproportionate Share payments,
which created a big problem for public hospitals. There is a lot of potential for collateral damage, and that is
where the focus should be - if the System and other public hospitals end up paying for it, they could lose much
more than they pick up by solving the SGR problem.

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #4)
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: Managed Care-Section 1115 Medicaid Waiver
Demonstration Project/CountyCare; Project Management Office; Clinical Update; Operational Update; Leadership
Development Program; and Recognition of Employees. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.
A. Report from Executive Director of Managed Care (Attachment #5)
Mr. Glass presented his report on Managed Care. Included in his report was information on the following
subjects: department structure; scope; barriers; and future plans. The Board reviewed and discussed the
information.
Director Lerner encouraged the administration to take the presentation by Mr. Glass and do a massive drilldown either at the Finance Committee or for Strategic Planning. The Board and administration should keep this
on the forefront of what is going on, because Dr. Raju’s strategic vision, in his view, has two parts to it; one
part is the current System and the services and resources provided to the residents, individuals and other
institutions within Cook County; the other part is the blossoming Managed Care population management effort,
which could, ten years from now, overshadow the first part (the current System), if it is well-managed.
Director Gugenheim stated that it is very important that this presentation and information be shared with
network partners, to inform front-line staff. Dr. Raju agreed; he stated that everybody should understand their
roles and the direction of the System, He added that Caryn Stancik, Executive Director of Communications,
has been charting out the internal and external communications for this whole idea – meetings are held in
multiple forums, and the information is shared.

Page 5 of 44

 Minutes of the Meeting
of the CCHHS Board of Directors
Friday, December 13, 2013
Page 6

VII. Closed Session Items
A. Claims and Litigation
The Board did not recess the regular session and convene into closed session.
VIII. Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Carvalho declared the MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Carvalho, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 6 of 44

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
December 13, 2013

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 7 of 44

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
 ITEM IV(A) 
DECEMBER 13, 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING 
 CONTRACTS AND PROCUREMENT ITEMS
Request 
#

Vendor

Begins 
Fiscal impact not  Affiliate /  on Page 
System
#
to exceed:

Service or Product

Extend, Amend and Increase Contract
1

Catamaran

Service
‐
pharmacy
management services

benefit

Managed 
$32,022,735.50  Care

2

Extend and Increase Contracts
2

Automated Health Systems  Service ‐ third party administrator
services
(AHS)

3

Maxim Staffing Solutions

Service ‐ temporary staffing services

Managed 
Care
System, 
$402,374.00  SHCC

$78,000,000.00 

3
4

Execute Master Agreement

4

Rush University Medical 
Center

Umbrella document serving as the
framework for specific agreements set
forth in Exhibits which may be entered Fiscal impact not 
into during the term of this Master
applicable to 
Agreement
Master Agreement System

Page 8 of 44

6

  

Cook County Health Hospitals System

   
  

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST
EXECUTIVE sponsoR:

   
 

 
  
 

arouson:

 

    
      

 

        

 

 

       
      
 

 

    
 

 

    
 

 

 

    
 

 

 
 

Steven Glass, Executive Director of Managed Care
DATE: PRODUCT I SERVICE:
_?12/2013 Service Pharmacy Benefit Management Services
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
Extend, Amend and increase Contract Catamaran, Schaumb?g, IL
ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT AWARD I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
896-260 $2,022,735.50 
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
02/01/2013 thru 06/30/2014 H13-25-017
SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:


 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

  
 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
The Cook County Health Hospitals System Board approved oOntract num ber H1 3-25-01 7 in the amount
of $2,989,250.00 on 02/01/2013. Catamaran provides pharmacy bene?t administrator services for County Care,
Including prior authorization of pharmaceuticals, access to network pharmacies and adjudication ad payment of
claims. The contract was increased on 05/14/2013in the amount of $1 2 ,000, 000. 00 to fund claims payments to
outside vendors. An additional amendment to increase this contract was approved by the Board on
I 11/22/2013 in the amount of $11, 798, 704. 00 to provide additional funding for administrative costs and claims

5 payment to outside vendors.

 
   
 
    
 

 
 
 
    
   
   
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
CountyCare's 1115 Waiver demonstration project ends 12/31/2013. has posted an RFP for a vendor to
perform its CountyCare Third Party Administrative services, including pharmacy bene?t management (PBM)

. services, as part of its 1115 transition strategy. The transition is in the planning stages, but is expected to occur

during the ?rst quarter of caiendar year 2014.

 
   
        
 

This request speci?cally allows Catamaran to provide PBM services through 06/30/2014. This contract extension will
provide the additional funding to cover the continued scope of work, bringing the total contract spend to
$58,810,689.50.

 
    
   
   
 

i TERMS OF REQUEST:
This is a request to extend, amend and increase contract number H1 3-25-01 
$32.022,735.50 as needed, claims payment and $1,711,99 .
1 of the contract will be extended from 01/01/2014 thru 06/30/2014.

 
 
        
 

Yes 

    

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE

cao: 0??ij Zzbw?

Anthony Rajkumar,CT1Tef Business; 001ch

CFO: . 

John Cookinha ief Financial Of?cer

Request 
CEO: (jg/Md) 1

. RaInRa?u,M Chi'ef {Executive Of?cer

   

 
      

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

     
 
 

 

    
  
   

  
   

Ambulatory Community Health Network Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health -
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center Provident Hospital Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center .

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01 /2011

Page 9 of 44

 

Cook County Health Hospitals System

 

   
  

 

 

      

 

   
      
  

 

 

     
  

 

 

 
  
       
 

 

    
 

 

    
 

 

    
 

 

SPONSOR:
NIA Steven Glass, Executive Director of Mam Care
DATE: PRODUCT I SERVICE:
11/05/2013 Service - Third Party Administrator
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
Extend Increase Contract Automated Health System (AHS), Schaumburg, IL
ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT AWARD I RENEWAL AMOUNT:
896-260 $78,000,000.00 
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
12/01/2012 thru 06/30/2014 H1 245-091
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:
RFP
NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY: 
The Cook County Health Hospitals System Board approved contract number in the amount
. of $7,800,000.00 on 11/29/2012. Automated Health Systems (AHS) provides administrative and support services as
a Third Party Administrator. Their services to include operation of a call center, contract management,
claims review and payment. An amendment to increase the contract amount was approved by the Board
on 05/31/2013 in the amount of $18,500,000.00 for the contract period. provides the monies for the
payment of foreign claims and AHS executes the transfer of claims payments to outside providers.

 
 
 
    
     
 
    
     
 

. NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:
CountyCare's 1115 Waiver demonstration project ends 12/31/2013. CCH HS has posted an RFP for a vendor to

perform its CountyCare TPA services as part of its 1115 transition strategy. The transition is in the planning stages,
but is expected to occur during the ?rst quarter of calendar year 2014.

 
       
 

 
 

I This amendment is speCI?cally to allow Automated Health System (AHS) to provide third party administrative .
services through 06/30/2014. This contract extension will provide additional funding necessary to cover the scope of
this work. This will bring the total contract $104.000.000.00.

 
    
 
 
 
  

  
 

 

TERMS or REQUEST:
This is a request. to extend and increase contract number in an. amount not to exceed. $78,000,000..00

. as needed, (524.000.000.00 for administrative services and $54,000,000.00 -. 
contract will be extended from 01/01/2014 thru 06/30/2014.

HAS FOU THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIV Yes
I. 

       
      
 

7 CONTRACT COMPLI

    
 

 

       
 

 

 

     

 

   

 

   

 

CBO:
Anthony Rajkumar, usinestf?c? By BOARD OF
DIRECTORS or THE COOK COUNTY
i HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
CFO: 
John Cookinha ief Financial Of?cer
CEO: Eat/(Q
Ram Raju, M.D., Chief Executive Of?cer Request 

  

- Ambulatory Community Health Network . Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health 
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center 0 Provident Hospltal - Ruth M.
Rothsteln CORE Center 

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Revised 03/01/2011

Page 10 of 44

   
   
  
  
  

Cook County Health 8 Hospitals System

   
  
  
   
 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

 

EXECUTIVE SPONSOR:
Claudia M. Fegan, MD, Executive Medical Director!
Medical Director Stroger Hospital

John Jay Shannon, Chief of Clinical Integration/Interim
Executive Director, Clinical Shared Services

SPONSOR:
Mark Pisaneschi, MD. Director of Radiology
Joanne Dulski, Laboratory Director, 
Russell Kelly, MD. Chairman Cardiology Division
Gladys Lopez, Chief Human Resource Of?cer
Laura Wahlfeldt, Director, Case Mana?lement

  
 
  
  
  
   
 

 

 

     
     

 

  
 

 

 
 

 

 

        
    
   
    
    
 

 

  
  

 

    
 

 

  
  

DATE: PRODUCT I SERVICE:
11/21/2013 Service - Temporary Staffing Services
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I 
Extend and Increase Contract Maxim Staf?ng Solutions, Chicago, IL
ACCOUNT: FISCAL IMPACT NOT TO EXCEED: GRANT FUNDED AMOUNT:
402,374.00 

897-275 Radiology

Cardiology
890-275 Laboratory
897-272 Case Management
897?272 Human Resources
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:
11/14/2011 thru 03/81/2014 
COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

RFP

   

 

NON-COMPETITIVE SELECTION METHODOLOGY:

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

  
 

PRIOR CONTRACT HISTORY:
Contract number 01 was approved by the Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board on 10/27/2011
i to allow Maxim Healthcare to provide temporary staf?ng for Stroger Hospital laboratory from 11/14/2011 through
11/13/2013 in the amount of $588,896.00. There have been six (6) prior Amendments on behalf of the Laboratory,
Pharmacy, Human Resources, Case Management and the County Human Resource Department resulting in a

cumulative increase amount of $1 ,020,600.00. An Amendment was executed by Supply Chain Management to

extend the contract period until 12/15/2013.

 
       
 
      
 
   
 

NEW PROPOSAL JUSTIFICATION:

The Cook County Health and Hospitals System have determined the need to extend the use of agency staff for an
additional period of time. This will allow the Departments time to fill critical permanent positions and provide optimal

5 levels of service for patient care. A Request for Proposals will be posted in the next 30 days seeking vendors to

. provide specialized services for each department. The total increase for this request is $402,374.00 for a period of

six (6)months. The total contract value is $2,011,370.00. 7 . 
1' TERMS OF REQUEST: 0? I

This is a request to extend and increase contract number in an a cunt not to asr
needed, for the period from 12/16/2013 thru 05/31/20145115313

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM

 
      
     

       
     
    

CONTRACT COMPLIANCE HAS FOUND THIS CONTRACT RESPONSIVE: es

 
     
 

 

  
 

Request 

 
 

0 Ambulatory 8. Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health .
- John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospitai of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center - Provident Hospital - Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center -

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Page 11 of 44 Revised 03/01/2011

 

PRODUCT I SERVICE:
11/21/2013 Service - Temporary Sta?LnQ Services
TYPE OF REQUEST: VENDOR I SUPPLIER:
Extend and Increase Contract Maxim StamSoiutions, Chicagg lL
CONTRACT PERIOD: CONTRACT NUMBER:

11/14/2011 thru 12/15/2013 H1 1-73-101

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



Anthony Rajkumar, C?i'eTPusine?? Of?br



 

CEO:
Ram Raju, M.D., Ch1ef Exefzutive/Of?cer

 

 

Ambulatory 8. Community Health Network - Cermak Health Services - Department of Public Health 
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County - Oak Forest Health Center . Provident Hospital - Ruth M.
Rothstein CORE Center 0

We Bring Health CARE to Your Community
Page 12 of 44 Revised 03/01/2011

 

BOARD APPROVAL REQUEST

Executive Sponsor: Ram Raju, MD.
Chief Executive Of?cer

Date: December 6, 2013

Subject Agreement: Master Agreement with Rush University Medical Center
Type of Request: Approve Execution of Master Agreement

Contract Period: December 6, 2013 through December 5, 2023

Contract Number: Hl4-01-01 1

Account: Not Applicable to Master*
Fiscal Impact: Not Applicable to Master*
Prior Contract History:

The Cook County Health and Hospitals System and Rush University Medical Center
(Rush) (collectively referred to as Parties) entered into two consecutive ten-year Master
Agreements primarily focusing on the academic af?liations between the Parties. The current
Master Af?liation Agreement expires June 30, 2014. In addition, over the past two decades, the
Parties have entered into a number of collaborative initiatives including agreements for the
provision of clinical services; the public-private collaboration through the establishment of the
CORE Foundation; and collaboration 1n the provision of services within the Ruth M.

    

Rothstein CORE Center. Most recently, the Parties ha of
Understanding with regard to Rush?s participation in The
CountyCare contract negotiations are on-going.

Justi?cation:

and Rush share a commitment to improving the wel-l 0th
systems serve and the quality of the health professionals ha 1% ies

 
   

have had several agreements regarding a myriad of services an arrangements, it IS cuesu'a to
have a master umbrella document to serve as the framework for these multiple agreements. This
Master Agreement, as presented, does not contain any speci?c scopes of service or other speci?c
arrangements. Rather, under this Master Agreement, the Parties may enter into agreements set
forth as Exhibits to this Master Agreement.

Ambulatory Community Health Network-Cermak Health Services of Cook County?Cook County Department of Public Health-
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County-Oak Forest Health Center-Provident Hospital of Cook County-
Rush M. Rothstein CORE Center of Cook County

1 Request 
4

Page 13 of 44

 

Speci?cally, during the term of the Master Agreement, the Parties may enter into agreements set
forth as Exhibits to the Agreement?s Part II. CountyCare, encompassing agreements regarding
network model of care; Part Academic Af?liation, encompassing agreements
which may span all levels of clinical education of varied types of health professionals and re?ect
the changes in the education of new health care professionals and explore opportunities for
collaboration in clinical investigation; Part IV. Clinical Services, encompassing agreements
designed to minimize duplication, maximize use of limited resources and expertise, and grow
new centers of excellence, particularly for vulnerable populations and communities; and Part V.
Operational Collaboration, encompassing agreements designed to maximize ef?ciencies and
improve operations.

Each Exhibit to the Master Agreement will govern individual agreed upon scopes of service and
arrangements with terms and conditions speci?c thereto. For these Exhibits will be
approved in accordance with policies, including the Supply Chain Management
Procurement Policy, and applicable Board Resolutions regarding contracting and procurement.

*This Master Agreement is an umbrella document serving as the framework for speci?c agreements set forth in
Exhibits which may be entered into during the term of this Master Agreement. Depending on the nature and terms
of a particular Exhibit, it may be presented to the Board for approval at which time the applicable
transmittal will specify the appropriate Account and Fiscal Impact.

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: 
Ram Raju, MD. 

c/ 

Ambulatory Community Health Network-Cermak Health Services of Cook County?Cook County Department of Public Health-
John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County?Oak Forest Health Center?Provident Hospital of Cook County?
Rush M. Rothstein CORE Center of Cook County

Page 14 of 44

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
December 13, 2013

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 15 of 44

 CCHHS 2014 Board Meeting Dates 
Meeting Time: 8:00 A.M. 
 
Friday, January 24, 2014 
Friday, February 28, 2014 
Friday, March 28, 2014 
Friday, April 25, 2014 
Friday, May 30, 2014 
Friday, June 27, 2014 
Friday, July 25, 2014 
Friday, August 29, 2014 
Friday, October 3, 2014 
Friday, October 31, 2014 
Friday, November 14, 2014 
Friday, December 12, 2014 
 
 
 

Page 16 of 44

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
December 13, 2013

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 17 of 44

 INTERGOVERNMENTAL
AFFAIRS
UPDATE

BOARD EDUCATION
COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 2013

JOY CAROL WYKOWSKI
DIRECTOR OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS

Page 18 of 44

 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS UPDATE
IGA OVERVIEW
2

 Serves as in-house g
governmental affairs and legislative
g
advisor
 Serves as in-house liaison to various federal, state and local

elected officials
 Coordinates CCHHS approach, response and position on
various legislative
g
matters
 Works with County lobbyists in advocating for CCHHS
interest with State and Federal agencies and legislative
b di
bodies
 Reviews legislative issues for potentially negative
budgetary
g
y impact
p

Page 19 of 44

 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS UPDATE
FEDERAL FISCAL TIMELINE
3

 Budget Conference Committee


12.13.13

 Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) – Medicare physician fee
cut
 12.31.13
 End of Continuing Resolution (CR)/2nd year of sequester
 1.15.14
 Debt limit expires
 2.7.14

Page 20 of 44

 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS UPDATE
FEDERAL LEGISLATION//RULE MAKING
4

 SGR
 Disproportionate Share Hospital payment (DSH) Cuts



Medicare
M di id
Medicaid

 Two Midnight Rule
 Implementation of the ACA

Page 21 of 44

 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS UPDATE
STATE LEGISLATION//RULE MAKING
5

 Health Maintenance Organization License
 Open Meetings Act/Medical Studies Act



Amendment adding to the executive session exceptions
A
Amendment
d
including
i l di all
ll sites,
i
system and
d network
k

 HB 1516 (SA2)


Support amendment restoring adult dental in State’s
State s Medicaid
program

 Public Health Local Protection Grant
 Support continued funding

Page 22 of 44

 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS UPDATE
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS//ADVOCACY
6

 Associations






Illinois Hospital Association
American Hospital Association
M t
Metropolitan
lit Chi
Chicago H
Healthcare
lth
C
Council
il
America’s Essential Hospitals (formerly NAPH)
National Association of Counties

 Government




Local
State
Federal

Page 23 of 44

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
December 13, 2013

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 24 of 44

  

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

OHHS

RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
December 13, 2013

 

MANAGED CARE
SECTION 1115 MEDICAID WAIVER DEMONSTRATION COUNTYCARE

As I reported in late November, CountyCare surpassed two key milestone we exceeded both our 1115
Waiver Demonstration Project target of 115,000 applications initiated and our FY2014 budget target of
56,131 approved CountyCare members. Today, CountyCare has initiated more than 125,000
applications and has more than 61,020 individuals enrolled that is more than 10,000 over our project
target and nearly 6,000 members more than our FY2014 budget projection. This is a significant
accomplishment for all associated with the health plan - our CountyCare team and partners should be
congratulated. I am pleased we are able to provide access to meaningful health care for each and every
one of our newly covered members.

In November, our Application Assistors submitted nearly 8,000 applications to the Illinois Department of
Human Services for processing. This brings the total number of applications submitted by November 30,
2013 to more than 92,000. Our pipeline of applications did slow down in November as we migrated to
the new ABE on-line application system as mandated by the State. As with any transition to a new
technology, we saw a drop in productivity as the users learned the new system. More recently, we are
starting to see this turnaround, but anticipate productivity to remain low through December.

As the end of the calendar year approaches so does the December 31, 2013 expiration ofour 1115
Waiver Demonstration Project. As we have reported over the course of the past few months it is our
intent to transition CountyCa re from its current 1115 Waiver status to a full-fledged Medicaid managed
care organization (MCO) in 2014. To accomplish this transition, requires significant cooperation,
coordination and communication with our CountyCare leadership, leadership from the State?s Medicaid
program, and representatives from the federal Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services.

Our team is working diligently on the transition and we fully expect the MCO entity to be in place within
the first six months of 2014. In partnership with the State, we have already provided and reviewed with
CMS a transition timeline, operating expectations, and financial requirements necessary to meet our
budget commitments. We are confident in our work with the state, and have been an active part of their
negotiations with the federal government. It is my intent to provide ongoing updates on the

CountyCare transition until it is complete. We believe the end result will be of benefit to our
CountyCare providers, and all CountyCare members.

Page 25 of 44

PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE (PMO)

In order to manage the transformation and the many initiatives that must occur for us to be a provider
of choice we have developed an internal Project Management Office (PMO). The goal ofthe PMO is to
evaluate the different initiatives across the system and track the progress of the different changes we
are implementing to ensure we are making measurable progress. Specific metrics are developed for
each initiative which are measured over time and leaders are held accountable for the progress of their
respective initiatives. We meet as a cross-functional group to understand the impact the
different changes have across the different areas of the organization. The PMO maintains the
organization?s focus on strategic priorities and moves us to become a data-driven organization, as well
as facilitates progress across multiple functions at 

PMO includes the following initiatives Hiring, Managed Care, Patient Access, Clinical Capacity and
Operations, Revenue Leakages, and Reporting Mechanisms/Dashboards.

Through our PMO project we have been able to achieve a number of results. Our call abandonment rate
for scheduling has declined from over 13% down to We are reducing the number of discrepancies
between our Electronic Medical Record (EM R) and billing systems, which improves our revenue
collections. The number of positions we are hiring has increased from 30 a month to approximately 80
per month. We have completed Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) training at each of our clinics
and rolled out new primary care scheduling templates. In addition, we are working to revamp the
scheduling process to ensure patients can get access to clinics and to reduce the number of no-shows of
patients who schedule an appointment. The PMO is also monitoring the transition of CountyCare as we
approach January 15?.

While we have achieved a significant amount of progress, we have a long way to go to make a
provider of choice in the post ACA world. The PMO will continue to be a valuable tool to move our
transformation forward over the next year.

CLINICAL UPDATE

The Capacity Management Workgroup, chaired by Peter Daniels, Chief Operating Officer of Hospital
Based Services, has laid out a key institutional goal for 2014 of improving dwell times for both admitted
and discharged patients from Adult Emergency Services, while reducing the Left Without Being Seen
rate. These metrics will be one of a small number of explicit institutional priorities in the coming year,
and will be the same for Stroger and Provident hospitals.

Ambulatory Services continue to work on Joint Commission recertification preparation, with site visits by
system leaders and ownership of readiness delegated to the various site teams. Ambulatory priorities
for 2014 continue to focus on specific aspects of the ambulatory visit, including ease of scheduling/
contacting the clinic and ease of getting through a clinic visit.

The Executive Medical Staff (EMS) has approved a change in the organization structure of a key
multidisciplinary medical staff committee, explicitly changing the charter, membership, and role of the
newly named Hospital Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Committee. This medical staff
committee will have an important dual report to the Executive Medical Staff of Stroger Hospital and the

2 Page
Page 26 of 44

 

Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board This change will strengthen the role of physician
leaders in articulating and monitoring health system quality and safety goals.

While we continue to work on strategies to improve vaccination of patients and staff for seasonal
influenza, I want to particularly recognize the Pharmacy Department and the CORE Center, both of
which had >90% of staff vaccinated this season.

OPERATIONAL UPDATE

In an effort to better assist patients utilizing Outpatient Services on the Stroger Campus, an Information
Desk has been located at Entrance 1 in Stroger Hospital to provide directional guidance to our
Ambulatory Care Patients.

Currently some of our patients who access Ambulatory Care at Stroger Hospital are sent to Fantus Clinic
for phlebotomy services. In order to improve their patient experience, we have created two blood
drawing stations; one station, which will be operational the week of December 16th will be located on
the second floor and the second station, located on the first floor, will be operational at the end of
January 2014.

As part of our Capital Equipment Replacement Process, plans to upgrade our inpatient medical and
surgical beds have begun.

The Jorge Prieto Clinic basement flooding issue has been resolved and future incidents of flooding
during periods of heavy rain is not anticipated. Plans are now underway to upgrade the mammography
machine, which is located in the basement, from analog to digital.

Improvements to our contract management and evaluation processes as well as solutions to address the
parking management needs ofthe campus are planned for 2014

In October, the HHS Board supported approval ofan intergovernmental agreement with the Illinois
Medical District (IMD) to, in part, to establish joint capital planning and development objectives and a
plan to address redevelopment needs for the Administrative Campus, Stroger Hospital and
Fantus Clinic. A kick-off meeting took place earlier this week with the IMD, Cook County?s Office of
Capital Planning and Policy and to explore development of the Stroger Campus.

RECOGNITION

Today I would like to recognize some of our extraordinary leaders; one who has helped us getting to
where we are today and fifteen who will help us navigate the future in an ACA environment.

Sidney Thomas
Sidney Thomas is retiring after 25 years of service at the Cook County Health and Hospital Systems.

An advocate for patients and communities, Thomas hasnheld many roles in his tenure, most at pivotal
times in the Cook County Hospital System's evolution. For the whole of his career, Sidney Thomas has
brought dignity, dedication, and compassion to his work and to our patients at 

3 Page

Page 27 of 44

 

Sidney first came to work at Cook County in 1988 as a faculty member in the Primary Care Internal
Medicine Program a post graduate experience for internal medicine residents interested in primary
care. After two years in this role, Sidney left the County briefly, returning in 1992 as administrator of
the Woodlawn Adult Health Center, a city-county collaboration on the south side of Chicago. In this role
Thomas had dual reporting responsibilities to both Ms. Ruth Rothstein and Sr. Sheila Lyne, and together
with new resident graduate Dr. Eric Whitaker, established Project Brotherhood, a nationally recognized
program that dedicates clinic sessions specifically for the care of Black men.

Three years later, when ACHN was officially formed, Thomas was named Director of Operations for the
entire network, eventually becoming the Interim Chief Operating Officer. Under Sidney?s leadership,
ACHN earned its first Joint Commission Accreditation, built or rehabbed five centers, and developed
partnerships with Bethany and Thorek Hospitals to open co?located primary care centers on their
campuses. In addition, Sidney secured Ryan White and other grant funding to expand community-based
HIV primary care beyond the CORE Center at ACHN sites in the Austin neighborhood and the south
suburbs. These expanded programs are still in operation today.

After ACHN, Sidney assumed the top leadership role at Provident Hospital, a position he held for three
years. His first tasks at Provident were to correct IDPH and Joint Commission concerns, and open an on-
site, outpatient pharmacy. Honoring its role as a community hospital, Sidney continued the tradition of
working with local community organizations to promote referrals and access to care.

When the County?s initial independent health board was formed, Sidney was asked to broaden his
leadership role. In 2010 Thomas was named Director of Provider Relations, a position dedicated
solely to managing the County's external relationships. Primarily tasked with promoting Vision 2015 to
community groups and healthcare leaders across Cook County, Thomas? work became the precursor to
his most recent role -- building the contracted provider network for CountyCare which now consists of
over 130 primary care sites; academic medical centers; community hospitals; independent specialists;
and numerous ancillary providers.

A constant theme in Sidney?s career is his ability to create highly effective working relationships with
leadership, front-line staff, and community partners. He leaves a legacy of serving as a steward
for our patients, for bringing innovative approaches to care in our communities, and for leading the
health system with a constantly calm demeanor and warm smile on his face.

Please join me in recognizing and thanking Mr. Sidney Thomas for his 25 years of dedicated service to
the residents of Cook County, and for his commitment to the patients and communities served by the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System.

Leadership Development Program

Our Leadership Development Program will graduate our first class of Leaders next week on December
17, 2013. The program and curriculum was developed with the help of our pro-bono partners, Civic
Consulting Alliance (CCA) and Strategic Talent (STS).

The program kicked-off on September 12, 2014 with fifteen participants from Nursing, Pharmacy and
Finance. Over the past ten weeks the group has focused on Patient Experience; motivating and
engaging staff and providing feedback both positive and negative; creating a motivating environment;
applying the principles of goal-setting to manage performance and solve problems they face in their

4 Page

Page 28 of 44



 

day-to-dayjobs; managing performance expectations; understanding the disciplinary process; and

problem solving. The following are the members of the December 2013 Inaugural Class:

Jamil Ahmad Administrative Analyst V, Emergency

Pam Brown Nurse Coordinator II, SCC

Denice Davis Pharmacy Supervisor IV, Stroger Outpatient
Candida Flores?Matheu Nurse Coordinator II, Logan Square
Cleo Harris Site Manager Patient Access ll, Revenue Cycle
Victor Medina Nurse Coordinator II, VISTA

Edith Murgas Business Manager IV, Financial Planning

Melody Navarro Nurse Coordinator II, Cermak

Lorna Pryor- Pharmacist Manager, Stroger Outpatient

Sharon Smith Nurse Coordinator ll, Emergency (Provident)
Eugenia Sta Maria - Nurse Coordinator ll, Outpatient

Robbin Weaver- Nurse Coordinator II, Ambulatory

Vickie Wheeler? Nurse Coordinator Ii, GMC

Gwen Williams System Manager, Patient Access, Revenue Cycle
Stephanie Winder-Robinson Nurse Coordinator ll, Ambulatory

Our Leadership Development Program participants have a unique role in the culture shift at 
Their insight and feedback on how to make the program successful will have an impact on the entire
System. We congratulate them and recognize their commitment to the Cook County Health and
Hospitals System.

Page 29 of 44

5 Page

 

GENERAL MEDICINE CLINIC AI PILOT FOR
THE PATIENT-CENTERED MEDICAL HOME

COOK COUNTY, ILLINOIS I POPULATION: 5,194,675



The Cook County Health and Hospital System, a large urban-based health system, serves as a
safety net for a diverse patient pOpulation. The General Medicine Clinic (GMC) is the largest primary
care clinic within this system and has initiated a Patient-Centered Medical Home Model to improve

the care Of its 20,000 unique patients. 
Creating medical homes for

OPPORTUNITY Cook County. citizens that

Despite significant progress on the national front, developing a Head OW servrce's help
us provrde a patient focused

medical home within a large urban?baSed clinic poses a num: .

ber of unique challenges. Cook County GMC works with a high 5199?039?7 that Improves
volume of low?income patients who present complex health Patter? access, Improves
issues. These factors lend toward the tremendous need for the career 7d most
implementation of a patient-centered, team-based apprOach Improves our
to care for this patient population. pat/ants overall heal I 

. .- 
(greet; 



in 2011, Cook County launched a pilot to create six GMC
multidisciplinary medical teams. The ?rst team included a registered nurse, a clerk, two administrative
assistants, three providers (1 .5 PT E) and the members of the GMC leadership team (medical
director, nurse manager and lead administrator). The team approach was developed to improve
patient care and clinic flow.



The new model created a patient-centered concept by increasingteam efficiency and communication
while improving the quality of care provided. Furthermore. by bundling the flow of clinic activities. the
multidisciplinary team could now move around the patient. An example of this includes registering
the patient. performing vital signs and screening intake all with the patient in the exam room. The
provider visit and patient discharge subsequently follows in the same exam room. 

This model actively involves every member of the team in the Care Of the patient. Positive outcomes
included an improved patient flow. Recently, an electronic data flow study revealed patients entered
and were discharged from GMC within 104 minutes. Patients also reported increased satisfaction
with the new model with 83 percent rating their overall satisfaction level at 10/ i and 100 percent
of patients rating their overall satisfaction with the wait time at 10/1 0.

Despite the successes, one challenge was the suboptimal ratio of support staff to provider personnel.
TO address this. the Cook County Health and Hospitals Systemlaunched a system-wide initiative
to transform all Of' its primary care clinics into medical homes. Next steps will include a focus on

Page 30 of 44

 

developing a strong care management model and intensifying efforts around population-based
health. These steps will permit GMC to improve the health outcomes and reduce redundancies in
the care provided. 


The implementation of the medical home allows improved
management of a large cohort of medically complex patients.

The General Medicine Clinic?s team-based approach builds patient access by
improving office flow and increasing patient capacity within the clinical unit.

Standardized team processes help to transition toward
full accreditation as a medical home.
INSELAWHAYHS.
Developing a patient-centered, team~pased approach significantly enhances
of?ce flow leading to an overall improved patient experience.

Positioning the clinic as a medical home will improve quality of care and allow
for a more systematic approach to performance improvement and improving
the overall health of this complex and vulnerable patient population.

CONTACT

Susan Representative for Cook County
sateen]. whifa@varizon. net

(Ii?c'i?iil? CUUA {Joanna {lino/i:

 

 

Overall Program Structure





.t

[32:33; Leadership Development Program (LDP) Modules

3.1

Worksho 3'2 
and Motivating 4.1 Setting 4.2 Managing Probl 5.2
(1 WS 2 (WS 1.1) (W5 2.1) Maintaining Staff and Performance Performance Sol . em nd Managing (WS 6.1)
'1 Positive Providing Expectations Expectations 0:ch a Con?ict
ours) Relationships Feedback Em"
with Staff 3 "9
I

 

 

 

 

Support from senior leadership and superVisors

 

 

Vision Mission

col-ms University

Leadership Development Program
investing in our people. Investing in our patients.

Excellent Patient Experience

Page 32 of 44

 University?s Leadership Development Program

In mid-September, University launched the Leadership
Development Program (LDP). The cohort consists of 14 managers from
across who were selected to participate in the program after a

competitive application process.

The LDP is a three-month training program that includes workshops with
guest speakers, group discussions, lunch and learn sessions with leaders
throughout the organization and various exercises that will culminate in a
graduation ceremony on December 17, 2013.

The aim is to provide managers with tools to implement and manage
consistent expectations so that the System can continue to attract and
retain staff and support Dr. Raju?s vision of delivering excellent
relationship-based care to patients. Through workshops, our leaders were
introduced to, and discussed topics such as creating excellent patient
exgeriences, building strong relationships with staff, and effectively solving
problems and managing con?ict.

(J0
0)

Rue participants were asked to draw upon and learn from one another?s
stories and real life experiences and they engaged in exercises that
address the day-to-day challenges they all face as managers. Throughout
the program leaders practiced implementing tools and techniques covered
In the workshops with their own direct reports, while they received
ongoing support and guidance from their own supervisors. The ?rst cohort
of leaders wrapped up their Program on December 11th and they will
continue to be supported in 2014 with additional lunch and learn sessions.

The second cohort will be launched in 2014.

The Leadership Development Program was developed and implemented
with pro bono support from world class experts, Strategic Talent Solutions
and Civic Consulting Alliance, along with 

Chief of Human Resources, Gladys Lopez, and
Department of Emergency Medicine Chair, Dr. Jeffrey Schaider.

 

COHHS University

LEADERSHIP
DEVELOPMENT

PROGRAM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investing in our peOpIe. Investing in our patients.

 

COOK COUNTY HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTIM

COHHS

 

 

THE LDP DECEMBER 2013 GRADUATES

Jamil Ahmad

Administrative Analyst, Emergency

appreciate the opportunity to evaluate my style of communication, leadership,
discipline and emotional intelligence and compare with others to identify my
and weaknesses along with recognizing my role in the well-being and
happiness of employees and it?s direct e?ect on the patient experience.

Lorna Pryor

Pharmacist Manager, Stroger Outpatient
It was a great learning opportunity. it introduced some new concepts and

reviewed others. The program emphasized. Leadership and Learning are
indispensable to each other.

Sharon Smith

Nurse Coordinator, Emergency (Provident)

i learned you have to be honest when giving feedback and reward the
person for the good they do.

Pamela Brown

Nurse Coordinator, SCC

Understanding you?re part of a team was really the boost I needed. We all
shared similar frustration related to working here. Having a shared vision and
knowing your peers are just as passionate and committed really served to
further motivate me.

 

Eugenia Sta Maria

urse Coordinator, Outpatient

As a seasonal leader in past 22 years, my role is continuously evolving,
challenged, and at times altered. Therefore, leadership roles in a health
care system needs a constant revisiting, renewed, and strengthen in order
to with the organizational goals, mission, and vision.

Robbin Weaver

Nurse Coordinator, Ambulatory
Change is not easy. I am not alone with the hopes of a new way of doing

things. With feelings of being supported I am not afraid to make the
needed change.

Denice Davis

Pharmacy Supervisor, Stroger Outpatient
The program has helped to enhance my leadership skills to positively in?uence
and to motivate the staff to excellent customer service.

Cleo Harris

Site Manager Patient Access, Revenue Cycle
University will help shape the future leaders of this unique system.

Page 34 of 44

Victor Medina
Nurse Coordinator, VISTA

The future of healthcare is change, the tools to manage change have been
given to me thru the University Program.

Vickie Wheeler

Nurse Coordinator, GMC
The most important lesson i learned is effective communication via

excellent listening skills (keep focused on the issue; express expectations
and develop a resolution); don?t be judgmental or emotional and value

each person?s opinion.

Gwen Williams

System Manager, Patient Access, Revenue Cycle
It?s important to take time and CELEBRATE the good employees not
always focus on the bad.

Edith Murgas

Business Manager, Finance
The Leadership Development class brought me in to contact with 13 managers
with diverse talents. was able to develop new problem solving skills.

Stephanie Winder-Robinson
Nurse Coordinator, Ambulatory

is very serious about changing the culture of the System as it relates
to our patient?s experience. We have been given the tools and techniques to
begin that change not only for the patients but for the employees we
manage. I love coming to work and creating this change with my sta?.

Melody Navarro
Nurse Coordinator, Cermak

The secret of change is to focus all your energy on building the new rather than
?ghting the old.

 
 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Board of Directors Meeting Minutes
December 13, 2013

ATTACHMENT #5

Page 35 of 44

 Managed
d Care Department Overview
i
Steven Glass, Executive Director Managed Care
Prepared for: CCHHS Board of Directors
December 13, 2013
Page 36 of 44

 Managed Care \vm

 

Department Structure
Scope

Barriers

Future Plans

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 37 of 44

 

23 Total FTEs

• 5 Filled
• 1 Offered
• 2 Candidate
Identified
• 11 In Hiring Process
• 4 Not Yet Posted

3

Page 38 of 44

 CountyCare Scope
•

Core to CCHHS 4Ps Strategy
1.
2.
3.
4.

•

Provider
Plan
Payer
Population Management

One Plan, Multiple Products
– Medicaid: ACA Adults, Family Health Plans,
Seniors & Persons with Disabilities (SPDs)
– Private: Marketplace,
p
, County
y Employees
p y
Option
p
4

Page 39 of 44

 Unique Leadership Scope
•
•
•
•
•

The Plan
Executive Leadership for 
CountyCare
Regulatory compliance of 
plan
Innovate service offerings
D l
Develop new products/ 
d
/
plans
Primary liaison to
Primary liaison to 
external entities (eg: HFS)

•
•
•

•

The Health System
Promote Health System 
Mission, Vision and Goals
Senior Leadership & 
Strategy Teams
Interpret Health Plan 
goals and objectives into
goals and objectives into 
Health System operations 
and outcomes
Oversee System’s 
Managed Care Contracts
5

Page 40 of 44

 Challenges
•
•
•

New Business Model; Old Business Processes
Rapid, Exponential Growth
Broad Opportunities; Limiting Infrastructure
pp
;
g

6

Page 41 of 44

  

 

 

 

 

Managed Care/CountyCare
lv?eno?or Management," Health Plan Poiicy,? Member Marketing,
Outreach 8c Enrollment, Provider Network Development 3: Relations



 

 

 

 

 

 

Health Plan A: Health Plan B:
MCCN "Leased" HMO License
- Medicaid ACA Newly Eligible - Health Insurance
Adults Marketplace
- Medicaid Family Plans - Employees (Optional)
- Medicaid Seniors Persons
with Disabilities

 

 

 

 

 

 

.1

Shared Provider Network 
roHCs, Specialists, ?if? of 
. . . Episodes of Care
Diagnostics - Revenue Optimization

Ti Ti

Shared Medical Management
Core Coordination, Case Management; Utilization Management, Quality of Care

 

Sub-Network



 

 

 

 

Shared Back Office Business Operations
Provider Services, Member Services, Bene?ts Management, Claims Processing; Actuarial Accounting

 

 

 


Page 42 of 44

 

 

FY’14 Priorities
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

Nov & Dec’13
New MCCN & TPA 
Agreements*
Agreements
Vendor Contracting*
Enrollment System Transition
Jan & Feb’14
Transition back‐office
Transition back
office & 
&
MH/SA network
Secure HMO License*
Qualified Health Plan (QHP) 
Planning*
PCP Network Expansion
p

•
•

Mar‐May’14
QHP Filing
Shared‐Savings
Shared
Savings Partnerships
Partnerships*

•
•

Jun‐Aug’14
FY’15 Budget*
’
d *
HFS Mandatory Managed 
Care Launch (ACA Adults & 
Family Health Plan)

•
•

Sept Nov 14
Sept‐Nov’14
FY’15 Budget*
Marketplace Open 
Enrollment

* = Requires BOD Action

8

Page 43 of 44

  




co
untyca re

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Thank Yo


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

