Minutes of the meeting of the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health
and Hospitals System held Friday, April 18, 2014 at the hour of 8:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Wiese called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Dorene P. Wiese, EdD and Director Carmen Velasquez (2)
Board Chairman David Carvalho (ex-officio) and Directors Hon. Jerry Butler, Ada Mary
Gugenheim and M. Hill Hammock

Absent:

Director Jorge Ramirez (1)

Chairman Wiese stated that Director Ramirez was unable to be physically present, but may be able to participate
in the meeting telephonically.
Director Velasquez, seconded by Chairman Wiese, moved to allow Director Ramirez
to participate as a voting member for this meeting telephonically. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Kevin Frey – Senior Labor and Employment Counsel
Randolph Johnston – System Associate General
Counsel
Gladys Lopez – Chief of Human Resources

II.

Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
John Jay Shannon, MD – Interim Chief Executive
Officer and Chief of Clinical Integration

Public Speakers
Chairman Wiese asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

George Blakemore

Concerned Citizen

 

III.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources (Attachment #1)
Gladys Lopez, Chief of Human Resources, presented her report, which included information on the following
subject: Month-Over-Month Comparison of Vacancies Filled - FY2013-FY2014. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
Board Chairman Carvalho inquired whether the System is experiencing a net increase of employees being hired.
Ms. Lopez responded that the System is not yet in that position, but the administration is operationalizing a lot of
different things with the Human Resources Department so this can be achieved. One of the subjects she addressed
last month was regarding changing the way staff presents their positions to the Position Advisory Committee
(PAC) and the timeframe that it takes - if they address those issues at the front end and address the job
descriptions, that will put them in a better position to post positions more expeditiously and hire more quickly.
Conversations are being held with the union partners to streamline the simultaneous posting; that will significantly
reduce the time it takes to post positions and bring candidates from outside the organization to fill the vacancies.

Page 1 of 9

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, April 18, 2014
Page 2

III.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources (continued)
Ms. Lopez noted that a considerable amount of time is spent shuffling internal people into vacancies, which then
creates other internal vacancies. If staff can coordinate those efforts and streamline it to get to the external
candidates, this will put the System in the position to get net gains on its hires.
Board Chairman Carvalho referenced recent proposals relating to pensions; he noted that the System could
potentially be facing a situation in which a number of people might decide to make changes in their careers based
on this. Dr. John Jay Shannon, Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chief of Clinical Integration, concurred. He
stated that there are a couple of realities that the System is facing: 1) there are currently a significant number of
open positions; 2) the annual budget cycle with the County is approaching, and the administration has to make
sure that they are doing everything they can to reduce those vacancies so they can justify having the positions
there; and 3) there is work afoot to reform the County pension plan.
Dr. Shannon noted that the Human Resources Department was totally rebuilt over the course of the past year and a
half. Ms. Lopez has done a great job with that, but the Human Resources staff is still relatively fresh. They have
experimented over the past year with a number of different approaches to try to streamline the process; they are
embarking right now on a significant change in that approach, where a lot of the work gets done before the review
by PAC, as opposed to being done after PAC meets.
Dr. Shannon stated that there have been significant communications with executive leadership and with a major
part of the hiring teams, including, most importantly, nursing leadership, because of the significant presence of
nursing in the labor force. Six members of the executive team will be meeting on a weekly basis with staff from
Human Resources to review all the vacancies in their area; those designated members of the executive team will
be collecting and representing all of the work of the hiring managers that work with them. Conversations will
have to be held with labor, so the administration can work to shorten any of the considerations or deliberations
that are sent to labor. The Shakman monitors have been very supportive to try and do everything they can do to
facilitate these processes. In addition, Dr. Shannon stated that staff will have to do an analysis of the at-risk
populations of staff because of upcoming pension reform. He noted that they are in the midst of doing that now;
they will be assembling a profile of workers and trying to determine where the System’s biggest risk areas are.

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of March 21, 2014
Chairman Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to accept the minutes of the
meeting of the Human Resources Committee of March 21, 2014. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements, for the period of November 1, 2008 through December
31, 2012:
i.
SEIU Local 73 – representing Health Care Professionals
ii. SEIU Local 73 – representing Hospital Technicians
iii. SEIU Local 73 – representing Service and Maintenance Employees
at Oak Forest Health Center
iv. SEIU Local 73 – representing Hospital Technologists
v. SEIU Local 73 – representing John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital / Cermak
Health Services Service Employees
Page 2 of 9

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, April 18, 2014
Page 3

IV.

Action Items
B. **Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements (continued)
Action was taken on this item following the adjournment of closed session.
Chairman Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to approve the five (5) proposed
Collective Bargaining Agreements with SEIU Local 73. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections IV and V
V.

Closed Session Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources
**Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreements
Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters
Chairman Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to recess the regular session
and convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois
Open Meetings Act: 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the
public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a
complaint lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for
the public body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective
negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their representatives,
or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees, and
”5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on
behalf of the particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is probable or
imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting.” THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the
Committee recessed into closed session.
Chairman Wiese declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Committee
reconvened into regular session.
Action was taken on the five (5) Proposed Bargaining Agreements following the
adjournment of closed session (see Item IV(B)).

VI.

Adjourn
Chairman Wiese, seconded by Director Velasquez, moved to adjourn the meeting. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY AND THE MEETING ADJOURNED.

Page 3 of 9

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Human Resources Committee
Friday, April 18, 2014
Page 4

Respectfully submitted,
Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Dorene P. Wiese, EdD, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 4 of 9

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting
April 18, 2014

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 5 of 9

 CCHHS Human Resources
Gladys Lopez,
Chief of Human Resources
CCHHS – Strengthening Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

April 18, 2014

Page 6 of 9

 Month‐Over‐Month Comparison of 
Vacancies Filled – FY13 to FY14
100

92
86

90

83
77

80
58

60
50
40
30

67

66

70
51

49
34

37
26

33

38

36

28*

41

FY13
FY14

20
10
0

*Through 04/07/14, a total of 185 vacancies have been filled this Fiscal Year.
12
Page 7 of 9

 CCHHS Labor Relations
Kevin Frey,
Senior Labor & Employment Counsel
CCHHS – Strengthening Our Brand
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

April 18, 2014

Page 8 of 9

 Closed Session
CCHHS – April
Strengthening
Our Brand
18, 2014
Cook County Health and Hospitals System
December 21, 2010

Page 9 of 9

 