HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE AGENDA
Date Issued: March 13, 2015
The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System
(CCHHS) will meet on Friday, March 20, 2015 at the hour of 9:00 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk Street, in the Second
Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois, to consider the following:
Time/Presenter
(times are approximate)
I.

Attendance/Call to Order

9:00/Chairman Wiese

II.

Public Speakers

9:00-9:05

III.

**Report from Chief of Human Resources

9:05-9:35/Gladys Lopez

IV.

Action Items
A. Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting of February 20, 2015

9:35-9:40/Chairman Wiese

 

B. Any items listed under Sections IV and V
V.

Closed Meeting Items
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.

9:40-10:00

Discussion of personnel matters
Update on labor negotiations
Discussion of litigation matters
Report from Chief of Human Resources
Approval of CCHHS Chief Executive Officer John Jay Shannon, MD’s initial
proposed Executive Incentive Plan, pursuant to the Executive Employment
Agreement

Closed Meeting
Motion to recess the open meeting and convene into a closed meeting, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of
specific employees of the public body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity,”
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their
representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” and

** Also included as a potential Closed Meeting Item/Discussion under Section V.

 AGENDA
Friday, March 20, 2015 Meeting
of the Human Resources Committee
Page 2

V.

Closed Meeting Items (continued)
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the particular body has
been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.”

VI.

Adjourn

Committee Members:
Chairman: Wiese
Members:
Board Chairman Hammock (Ex-Officio) and Directors Collens and (TBD)

 