Minutes of the special meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Tuesday, October 13, 2009 at the hour of 10:15 A.M. at John H. Stroger,
Jr. Hospital of Cook County, 1901 W. Harrison Street, in the fifth floor conference room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Ansell called the meeting to order at 10:20 A.M.
Present:

Chairman David Ansell, MD, MPH and Director Luis Muñoz, MD, MPH (2)
Director Benn Greenspan, PhD, MPH, FACHE

\

Absent:

Director Hon. Jerry Butler (1)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
William T. Foley
Stephen Martin, PhD, MPH
John Raba, MD
Elizabeth Reidy
II.

Deborah Santana
Anthony J. Tedeschi, MD, MPH, MBA
Sharon Welbel, MD

Public Speakers
Chairman Ansell asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered public speaker:
1.

III.

Leslie Curtis

Midwest Director, National Nurses Organizing Committee

Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Proposed Policy on Health System Personnel Influenza Vaccination Requirements
Dr. Stephen Martin presented two draft recommendations on the Health System Personnel Influenza
Requirements. Draft “A” is recommended for approval at this time. He summarized the differences
between Draft “A” and Draft “B”; the only exemption for Draft “A” is for medical contraindications, while
Draft “B” exemptions include the recognition of medical contraindications, along with other reasons as
established by Employee Health Services.
Mr. Foley added that after extensive review and discussions on the subject, it was his recommendation that
the Committee approve Draft “A”. He stated that the Cook County Health and Hospitals System should be
a leader on this issue, as it is the third largest health system in the nation. Additionally, he stated that it is
the right thing to do to protect the System’s staff, patients, and the public.
Director Muñoz suggested that a tracking mechanism be put in place to track exempted employees, and to
track those employees who receive the vaccination but still contract influenza.
In response to Director Greenspan’s inquiry regarding which other vaccinations are required for System
employees, Dr. Sharon Welbel stated that the System requires from its employees proof of vaccination
against rubella. She added that this is a state mandate.

Page 1 of 7

 Quality and Patient Safety Committee Special Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, October 13, 2009
Page 2

III. Recommendations, Discussion/Information Items
A. Proposed Policy on Health System Personnel Influenza Vaccination Requirements (continued)
Further discussion took place on the System’s vaccination rates. Dr. Welbel stated that the System’s
vaccination rate is approximately 40% for the voluntary seasonal influenza vaccine.
Director Greenspan noted that, if it hasn’t already been done, a communications plan should be prepared to
educate the unions and all employees on the subject.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Chairman Ansell, moved the approval of Draft “A” of the Proposed
Recommendation on Cook County Health and Hospitals System Personnel Influenza Vaccination
Requirements. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
(Draft “A” of the Proposed Recommendation on Cook County Health and Hospitals System Personnel
Influenza Vaccination Requirements is included as Attachment #1.)

IV. Action Items
A. Any item listed under Section III

V.

Adjourn
Director Muñoz, seconded by Chairman Ansell, moved to adjourn.
UNANIMOUSLY and the meeting adjourned.

THE MOTION CARRIED

Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
David Ansell, MD, MPH, Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 2 of 7

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Special Meeting
October 13, 2009

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 3 of 7

 DRAFT A: EXEMPTION FOR MEDICAL CONTRAINDICATION ONLY

Cook County Health & Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
SUBSTITUTE RECOMMENDATION
Date:

10/13/09

Subject: Health Care Personnel Influenza Vaccination Requirements
Background: The current pandemic of novel Influenza A (H1N1) has highlighted the
importance of vaccinating personnel working in health care against influenza. Seasonal
Influenza alone causes approximately 38,000 deaths annually in the United States. Influenza is
easily acquired by anyone – whether at work or in the community – but influenza acquired by
Health Care Personnel may be spread to patients, visitors, other Personnel and families.
Vaccination is an important tool both to reduce illness among Personnel, assuring that we have
enough staff to care for patients, and to reduce the spread of Influenza to patients and others.
Purpose: To protect health by preventing Personnel from transmitting influenza to patients,
visitors and other Personnel, to protect Personnel and their families from influenza and to assure
the availability of Personnel to provide quality health services.
Recommendation: That Influenza vaccination be required for all medical and non-medical
Personnel working in System facilities who have not been granted an exemption from this
requirement, through the adoption of a System Policy pursuant to the authority vested in the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System Board of Directors; which policy shall be effective
immediately, shall be placed into an appropriate Policy format by the System HR Director and
shall replace the provisions of any existing employee health policies to the extent they may be
inconsistent.
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
PERSONNEL INFLUENZA VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS
1.

Definitions

(a)
“Medically contraindicated” means a determination, certified by a physician or nurse
practitioner licensed to practice in the State of Illinois, that influenza vaccine(s) should not be
administered to an individual because it would be detrimental to the individual’s health. Medical
contraindication shall continue until such immunization is found no longer to be detrimental to
the individual’s health.
(b)
“Personnel” means all persons who are employed or engaged in the provision of services,
research or educational activity, within a System facility, whether paid or unpaid, including, but
not limited to, employees, members of the medical staff, contractors and contractor staff,
residents, students, and volunteers, who either have direct contact with patients or whose
activities are such that if they were infected with influenza, they could potentially expose
patients, co-workers, or others who have direct contact with patients to influenza, except for
Exempt Personnel.
DRAFT A

Page 4 of 7

1

 (c)
“Exempt Personnel” means Personnel whose positions have been identified by Employee
Health Services as being exempt from, or who have applied to Employee Health Services and
been granted an exemption from, required influenza vaccination.
2.

Health & Hospitals System – Personnel Influenza Immunization Requirements

With the exception of Exempt Personnel, all Personnel shall be required to be immunized against
influenza virus(es) as a precondition to being permitted to provide services or engage in research
or educational activities in a System facility by December 1, 2009 and November 1st each year
thereafter and in circumstances of a threatened or actual pandemic of influenza for which vaccine
is available. Such influenza vaccination(s) must be in accordance with the national
recommendations in effect at the time of vaccination(s). Requirements applicable to additional
influenza vaccines that are not included in the regular seasonal influenza vaccine, and the
deadlines for receiving such vaccines or requesting an exemption, shall be established by the
Chair of the Division of Infectious Diseases at Stroger Hospital in consultation with the Chair of
the Division of Microbiology at Stroger Hospital and System Employee Health Services. If the
System determines that vaccine supplies are inadequate given the numbers of Personnel to be
vaccinated or that vaccine(s) are not reasonably available, the System may suspend the
requirement(s) of this policy for some or all Personnel and/or change the annual deadline for
such vaccination(s).
3.

Health & Hospitals System, Existing Personnel

The System will provide or arrange for influenza vaccination(s), at no cost to Personnel, either at
System facilities or elsewhere. Personnel may choose to receive influenza vaccination(s) at their
own expense from a source other than that arranged for by the System, in which case they shall
provide documentation of vaccination(s) to Employee Health Services by November 30th each
year as provided in Section 5, below.
4.

Health & Hospitals System, New Personnel

Influenza vaccination requirements, including timelines for submitting an exemption request, for
Personnel who begin service, research or educational activity in a System facility after
November 30th but before the following April 1st shall be determined by Employee Health
Services. If vaccination is required, the System will provide or arrange for the necessary
vaccination(s) at its cost. New Personnel may choose to receive influenza vaccination(s) from a
source other than that arranged for by the System, in which case they shall provide
documentation of vaccination to Employee Health Services by a date determined by Employee
Health Services and as provided in Section 5, below.
5.

Documentation of Vaccination

Influenza vaccination(s) of Personnel shall be documented by Employee Health Services.
Documentation shall include the date, site of administration, type of vaccine, dose, manufacturer
and lot number of the vaccine, reactions if any, confirmation that the vaccine information
statement was provided and the name of the person administering the vaccine(s). Personnel who
choose to receive influenza vaccination(s) from a source other than that arranged for by the
DRAFT A

Page 5 of 7

2

 System shall provide documentation of the date, type of vaccine, dose and name of the person
administering the vaccine to Employee Health Services.
Employee Health Services shall inform the respective Chief Operating Officer regarding the
names of Personnel who have not complied with this Policy. The Chief Operating Officer shall
communicate the information to the respective managers for appropriate action. During the
initial implementation of this policy in Fall 2009, this provision may be limited to compliance
with vaccination requirements for Influenza A (H1N1).
6. Exemption from Vaccination Requirements
Employee Health Services may determine that certain Personnel shall be exempt from the
vaccination requirements in this Policy.
A. In 2009, individual Personnel wishing to be exempted from the vaccination requirement
must submit a written request for exemption on the basis of a recognized medical
contraindication in accordance with procedures established by Employee Health Services.
Requests for exemptions must be submitted to Employee Health Services by December 1,
2009.
B. Beginning in 2010 and each year thereafter, individual Personnel shall be responsible for
submitting a written request for exemption on the basis of a recognized medical
contraindication in accordance with procedures established by Employee Health Services.
Requests for exemptions must be submitted to Employee Health Services by November
1st of each year for the seasonal influenza vaccine released that year.
All Personnel except Exempt Personnel must comply with the vaccination requirements of this
Policy, and all Exempt Personnel must comply with any conditions imposed by Employee Health
Services as addressed in Section 8, below. Non-compliance may result in exclusion from System
facilities or disciplinary action up to and including termination.
7. EMPLOYEE HEALTH SERVICES EXEMPTION REQUEST PROCEDURES
Personnel requesting an exemption must submit a written request for exemption on the basis of a
recognized medical contraindication in accordance with procedures established by Employee
Health Services each year. These procedures may include, but shall not be limited to,
submission of a physician certification identifying that one or more recognized medical
contraindications apply with respect to immunization of the individual.
Personnel will be notified in writing of whether the medical exemption is granted each year. The
basis for granting an exemption is subject to change depending upon the anticipated severity of
an influenza outbreak.
8. Restrictions on Exempt Personnel
Exempt (non-vaccinated) Personnel shall comply with conditions established by Employee
Health Services to reduce the risk of transmitting influenza to patients, visitors and other
DRAFT A

Page 6 of 7

3

 Personnel. These conditions may include, but shall not be limited to, a requirement that Exempt
Personnel wear a face mask in patient areas and/or throughout the campus in the event of a
widespread outbreak.
9. Reporting Requirements
Employee Health Services shall collect aggregate data on Personnel influenza vaccination status
for the period beginning each April 1st and ending the following March 31st and shall report that
data to the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the System Board within thirty days of the
applicable period. Reported data will include, but not be limited to, number of Personnel
immunized, by Personnel category, number of Personnel not immunized, by Personnel category,
and reason(s) Personnel did not receive vaccine.
10. Compliance with Policy
Failure to comply with the requirements set forth in this Policy, including any conditions
imposed upon Exempt Personnel, may result in exclusion from System facilities or disciplinary
action, up to and including termination.
11. Effective Date: October 13, 2009

DRAFT A

Page 7 of 7

4

 