Minutes of the meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board of Directors of the Cook
County Health and Hospitals System held Tuesday, June 14, 2016 at the hour of 10:30 A.M. at 1900 W. Polk
Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Chairman Gugenheim called the meeting to order.
Present:

Chairman Ada Mary Gugenheim and Director Wayne M. Lerner, DPH, LFACHE (2)
Directors Emilie N. Junge and Carmen Velasquez
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. and Patricia Merryweather (non-Director Members)

Absent:

None (0)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Krishna Das, MD – Chief Quality Officer
Douglas Elwell – Deputy CEO of Finance and
Strategy
Claudia Fegan, MD – Executive Medical
Director/Medical Director-Stroger

II.

Irene Marks – Director of Quality, Ambulatory
Services
Jeff McCutchan – Interim General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board

Public Speakers
Chairman Gugenheim asked the Secretary to call upon the registered public speakers.
The Secretary responded that there were none present.

III.

Report from Chief Quality Officer
A. Regulatory and Accreditation Updates
B. Metrics (Attachment #1)
Dr. Krishna Das, Chief Quality Officer, reviewed the metrics and provided an update on regulatory and
accreditation matters. She stated that the American College of Surgeons’ (ACS) Commission on Cancer was
currently on-site at Stroger Hospital for a one (1) day review of the hospital’s cancer specialty program.
Director Lerner inquired whether the survey crosses over to CountyCare, or whether it is strictly based on the
institutional efforts. Dr. Das responded that the survey is on the hospital/institutional efforts. Director Lerner
noted that further thought should be given in relation to the recommendations that come out of the ACS survey
and their application to the CountyCare patients.
During the discussion of the metrics, Director Junge inquired whether the Committee can receive a quality
indicator report on Cermak Health Services. Dr. Das responded that data is being collected, and in the past, has
been presented in a closed meeting. She stated that she expects to be able to bring a report in the next couple of
months. Director Lerner inquired whether a framework was developed for Board-level indicators for Cermak.
Dr. Das responded that, in the past, staff abstracted a subset of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) indicators
for presentation, which encompassed both timeliness of care, particularly with reference to nursing indicators,
and some conventional quality of care indicators, like those relating to diabetes care. Director Lerner inquired
whether it would be appropriate to have a discussion at the next meeting in July on the framework, so the
Committee can get comfortable with that; this would be a good education for the Committee. Jeff McCutchan,
Interim General Counsel, clarified that future presentation of data should be done in a closed meeting, based on
the ongoing litigation; however, the discussion of the framework can be done in open session. Mr. Driscoll
suggested that it would also be good for the Committee to receive a report at some point before the DOJ
monitors’ next visit to Cermak.
Page 1 of 76

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, June 14, 2016
Page 2

IV.

Action Items
A. 2016 Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan for the Ambulatory and Community
Health Network of Cook County (ACHN) (Attachment #2)
Dr. Das and Irene Marks, Director of Quality, Ambulatory Services, provided an overview of the presentation
on the 2016 Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan for ACHN. The Committee reviewed and
discussed the information.
During the review of the information, Director Velasquez inquired regarding whether any new primary care
outpatient clinics are planned, in addition to those referenced in the presentation. Douglas Elwell, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer of Finance and Strategy, responded that the administration is currently focused on relocation
and expansion of the existing clinics.
Chairman Gugenheim inquired regarding efforts toward obesity control and prevention; she noted that there has
been a large amount of activity in the City of Chicago around that subject for years - to what extent is CCHHS
part of that network, and are there linkages with schools? Director Velasquez noted that specific schools in the
Chicago Public Schools’ district have been identified as having high lead levels - is CCHHS in any way
assisting or collaborating in this effort? Dr. Das responded that she would defer that question to the Cook
County Department of Public Health; she stated that staff will look into it and provide a response.
During the discussion of the subject of screening tests for depression, Dr. Das provided additional information.
She stated that the initial screening is a two (2) question, high-level test done very quickly. If the score is
positive, the provider administers a nine (9) question screening that determines if the patient should be referred
to a social worker for further intervention or referred directly to a psychiatrist.
Director Junge inquired
whether that covers screening for substance abuse disorders. Dr. Das responded that she does not think that the
Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) measures do, but that is an independent initiative;
she stated that she will talk to the behavioral health team for further information.

B. Approve proposed clinical training affiliation agreements (Attachment #3)
Dr. Claudia Fegan, Executive Medical Director/Medical Director-Stroger, provided an overview of the proposed
clinical training affiliation agreements.
Director Lerner, seconded by Chairman Gugenheim, moved to approve the proposed
clinical training affiliation agreements.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Executive Medical Staff (EMS) Committees of Provident Hospital of Cook County and John H. Stroger,
Jr. Hospital of Cook County
i. Receive reports from EMS Presidents
ii. Approve Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes (Attachment #4)
Director Lerner, seconded by Chairman Gugenheim, moved to approve the Medical
Staff Appointments/Reappointments/Changes.
THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 2 of 76

 Minutes of the Meeting of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Tuesday, June 14, 2016
Page 3

IV.

Action Items (continued)
D. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, May 17, 2016
Director Lerner, seconded by Chairman Gugenheim, moved to accept the Minutes
of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of May 17, 2016. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

E. Any items listed under Sections IV and V

V.

Closed Meeting Items
A. Medical Staff Appointments/Re-appointments/Changes
B. Litigation Matter(s)
The Committee did not convene into a Closed Meeting.

VI.

Adjourn
As the agenda was exhausted, Chairman Gugenheim declared the meeting
ADJOURNED.
Respectfully submitted,
Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Ada Mary Gugenheim, Chairman

Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 3 of 76

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2016

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 4 of 76

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH
& HOSPITALS SYSTEM
CCHHS Board of Directors
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
Dashboard Overview
14 June 2016
Krishna Das, MD, Chief Quality Officer

1

Page 5 of 76

CCHHS Board QPS Committee

 Quality Stroger

EEHHS QPE Committee Dashboard

D313 asof 5,314,315 CY 2015 means
WNW 111.2 EDIE U3 EDIE U4 EDIE EDIE HE EDIE

 

 

 


.Hpr May lune July Aug Sept Dot Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Etroger
Core Measures
Venous Th romhoemholiam Prevention Univ [95Uenoua Th romhoemholiam Prevention 8: Treatment [95Care for Stroke Patients {991110
In?uenta and Vaccination [93E??iciemy - Operating Room
BeginaatSohedulediime??} Room Turn Around Time [minutes3a:a represents automated collection
1dariance istarget to recent month

Not Sufficient data collected
has not completed April Immunizations

COOK COUNTY-HEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCl-l HS

2 Board QPS Committw

 

 

 

 

Quality Provident

Committee Dashboard

Dan as of Efl-Ilfl-E IDLE ?211115
WNW ?12 EDIE 2(115 0.4 EDIE l[til ?12 EDIE-

 

 

 

TAFIEET 
Apr May- ]une July Aug Sept Dirt lilo-V Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Provide nt

Core Measures

Venous Th romhoemholism Prevention Univ [95! ?34 ?34 ?34 ?34 11313 3?3 99 413%

Venous Th romhoemholism Prevention 3: Treatment [9&1 ?35 ?31 ?33 11313 11313 3?3 99 413%

ln?uenra and Pneumococcal Vaccinations {as} ?33 El? ?35 1ill El? ?39 El? 1111] 1111] it") 90 1:195

E??iciency - Room

Surgew Begins at Scheduled Time ?Room Turn Around Time [minutes] 30 na


jaza represen:s aLI:ema:ecl cellec:ien
Variance is target to recent month

Not Sufficient data collected
?Provident has not completed April Immunizations

COOK 
C's HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Page 7 of 76 CCH 


 

 

 

Safety Stroger

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ECHHS Cummittee Dashbuard
HIGH ?2:116
mum :12 2:115 :13 2:115 :14 2:115 :11 2:115 :12 2:115
TAFIEET UHFIIAHEE 
Apr May June July Hug Sept Del: Dec Jan Feb Mar Aw
Safety
HAE: Pressure Ulcer StageHA-E: Fallsw?rth Iniurw2 CLABSI LEGEND
CLASSI: Central line-associated blood stream infections
. - - - - COOK COUNTY-HEALTH
CAUTI. Catheter-assumated urinawtram Infemluns I TA SYST 
*Uariance istargetmrecen: full quarter CCI I 
Page 8 of 76

4

 

Board QPS Committee

Patient Experience Stroger

(IFS Committee Dashboard

c'r zo? mulls
mum EDIE I113 EDIE U4 EDIE EDIE lClE EDIE

 

 

 

 


MI Mar,- June Jul-,- Aug Sept Dirt Dec Jan Feb Mar MI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Patient Experience

Willing to Recommend Hosp {95 top box] BE 65 55 33 63 ill) 35 I35 32 L33 35 L33
Communication with Doctors {'35 top box31}
Communication with Nurses {913 top boxEs? ill} Ti] 6? 33 11]] 3-1
{leanliness {95. top boxLEGEND

Data represents automated collecnon
Variance is target to recent month

HIS: Not Sufficient data collected

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCl-l HS

Board QPS Committee

 

 

 

 

Page 9 of 76

 

Patient Experience Provident

Committee Dashboard

Danamf?fla?? 2:115 H2016
mummies l:12 2:115 :13 2:115 :14 2:115 l:11 2:115 :12 2:115

 

 

 

THFIEET 
?pr May June Jul]: Aug Sept Dirt Nov Dec Ian Feb Mar An"

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Patient E_xperience

Willing to Recommend Hosp [?15 top box! 56 63 1'1 33 53 5:1 3:1 111:) 11111 111:1 5? 1'1 35 
Communication with Doctors ['15 top box111:) 111:1 111:1 1:111 111:1 55 33 1'95
Communication with Nurses ['15 top box] 1'3 35 35 111:} 12 I51 111:) 35 111:) 1:111 1'5" 111:1 51 SE 596
Cleanliness [95 top box] 65 53 35 El? 11]) 11]} 1:14] 3'5" 33 5? 



Jaia represents au:crna:e:l ccllec:icn
1I.I'ariance istarget to recent month

th Sufficient data collected

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM



6 Board QPS Committee

 

 

 

 

ACHN

DPS Committee Dashboard

cs 2111.5 H2515
mummies l[l2 2:115 1113 2:115 lI14 21115 111 21115 I112 2515

 

 

 

THFIEET 
Apr Mair lune Jul-gr Aug Sept Dirt Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ACHN

Diabetes Control '15 with th .4112 21 9'595
lmmunizsh?ons: Up to date in children at 24 months {15495
Pah'ent Experience: Moving Through Visit 1'5

Psh'ent Experience: Telephone Access 1'11 51' 54 52 511 511 1'5

 

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
HOSPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

Page 11 of 76 .
Board QPS Committee

 

Board Quality Dashboard

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QPS Committee Dashboard Board Metrics - Quality
Data as of 5f14f2o1e
PERFORMANCE MEASURES ct 2015 H2015
2:115 TARGET 
1:115 2:115 5:115 4:115 1:115 APR
Stroger
Core Measures Composite
Venous Thromboembolism Prevention Only [96} 88 92 89 88 99% 
Venous Thromboembolism Prevention Treatment 83 88 88 93 99% 
Ej?f?ciencjiF - Operating Room 
Surgery Begins at the Scheduled Time Safety Total of Events
Events: Ulcers, Falls, CLABSI and CAUTI Patient Experience
to Recommend Hosp {915 top box85%
Provident
Care Measures
Venous Thromboembolism Prevention Only 11%} 98 94 98 98 99% 
Venous Thromhoembolism Prevention Treatment 98 95 92 98 99% 
- D?perating Room 
Surgery Begins at the Scheduled Time Patient Experience
to Recommend Hosp {95' top boxACHH
Diabetes Control 1with s: 9% 23 24 28 24 2'3 28% 
Patient Experience: Moving Through Visit 82 83 8D 83 84 82 25%
Patient Experience: Telephone Access 82 81 8D 83 82 88 25%


Date represen:s eLI:ome:ecl collec:ion
Verience i5 target to recent month

Not Sufficient data collected
?Provident has not completed April Immunizations

COOK 
HOSPETALS SYSTEM



 

 

 

Page 12 of 76

 

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2016

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 13 of 76

 2016 ACHN Quality Assessment and
Performance Improvement Plan
Quality and Patient Safety Committee
CCHHS Board of Directors
Krishna Das, MD, FHM, FACP, CHCQM
Chief Quality Officer
Irene Marks MS, RN, WHNP-BC, CNS
Director of Quality, Ambulatory Services

Page 14 of 76

 ACHN Quality Priorities
• Define key performance metrics which measure the
quality of ambulatory care across the system
• Define performance improvement targets and methods
to achieve goals
• Describe and align with reporting requirements for
HEDIS
• Describe and align with reporting requirements for
Meaningful Use and incorporate planning for MIPS
(Merit-based Incentive Payment System)
• Define the Primary Care Medical Home and specific
goals to be achieved to attain PCMH certification in
addition to Joint Commission accreditation
• Outline the governance structure for ACHN quality
2

Page 15 of 76

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 ACHN - Mission
The Ambulatory and Community Health
Network (ACHN) mission is to deliver
integrated health services with dignity
and respect, regardless of a patient’s
ability to pay; to foster partnerships with
other health providers and communities
in order to enhance the health of the
public; and to advocate for policies which
promote and protect the physical, mental
and social wellbeing of the people of
Cook County.
3

Page 16 of 76

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 ACHN Clinical Locations
Austin Health Center
Children’s Advocacy Center
Cicero Health Center
Cottage Grove Health Center
Dr. Jorge Prieto Health Center
Englewood Health Center
Fantus Health Center
Sengstacke Ambulatory
Center
• Logan Square Health Center

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

4

• Morton East Adolescent
Center
• Near South Health Center
• Oak Forest Health Center
• Robbins Health Center
• Specialty Care Center
• Vista Health Center
• Woodlawn Health Center

Page 17 of 76

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 ACHN –Goals of the Plan
• Integrate all patients into a Primary Care Medical
Home and attach them to a Primary Care Provider of
their choice.
• Actively engage patients and their families in their
care and self-management.
• Organize evidenced-based patient care across all
elements of the broader health system.
• Promote continuity in transitions of care from
internal and external services.

5

Page 18 of 76

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 2016 ACHN Key Performance Indicators
Target
Performance

Benchmark
50%tile

Benchmark
90%tile

Baseline
Q3 2014

Baseline
2015

Ease of moving through
the clinic

75%

84

88

63%

63%

HCAHPS Monthly/
survey Quarterly

Ease of reaching clinic
on the phone

75%

86

88

59%

64%

HCAHPS Monthly/
Survey Quarterly

*Children with UTD
immunization at 24
months

86%

77%

86%

71%

74%

Cerner
ICARE

Monthly/
Quarterly

*Diabetics with A1C
< 9%

78%

71%

81%

72%

76%

Cerner
ICARE

Monthly/
Quarterly

*Diabetics with A1C
< 8%

TBD

58%

68%

NA

NA

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

*Provide Access for Post
Hospital within 14d

60%

Illinois
60%

Establish
baseline

33%

Influenza Vaccination

90%

CDC Benchmark
42.2%

27%

47%

Cerner

Monthly
Seasonal

*Children with one lead
screen level by 24
months

90%

NA

70%

Cerner

Quarterly

Indicator(s)

*HEDIS
*Illinois
6

72.3%

82.2%

Page 19 of 76

Data
Source

Reporting
Interval

MHN Monthly/
Connect Quarterly

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 Indicators

2016 HEDIS P4P Indicator List
Benchmark

Data Source

HEDIS
75th %tile
60% Illinois

Cerner

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

• Annual Diabetic Retinal exam
• Annual Nephropathy screen

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Childhood Developmental Screen first 3 Years of Life

65.7%
Illinois
HEDIS
75th %tile
HEDIS
75th %tile
HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s)
Childhood Immunization Status at 2 years
Ambulatory Care follow-up 14 days after hospitalization
Comprehensive Diabetes Care:
• Annual Hemoglobin A1c testing
• Hemoglobin A1c > 9
• Hemoglobin A1c < 8

Cerner

Other P4P Health Plan Indicators

Well Child Visits the first 15 months of Life
Well Child Visits 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6the years of Life
Prenatal and Postpartum Care:
• Timeliness of Prenatal Care
• Postpartum Care

HEDIS
75th %tile
HEDIS
75th %tile
HEDIS
75th %tile

Follow up After Hospitalization for Mental Illness
Anti-depressant Management
Adult Access to Preventive services and Screening

7

Page 20 of 76

Cerner
Cerner
Cerner

Cerner
Cerner
Cerner

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 ACHN - HEDIS Comprehensive Diabetes Compliance
3/1/2015 thru 4/30/2016
85%

35 %

15 %

65 %

52 %

34 %

48 %

66 %

78 %

22%

54%

8

46 %

Page 21 of 76

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 ACHN – PCMH Requirements/Major Goals
OPERATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS & REQUIREMENTS

Coordinated
Care

Care is coordinated across the broader health care system.
Transitions of care between care sites emphasize discharges from hospitals and ED.
• Use of internal and external resources to meet patients’ needs
• Responsible for care coordination

Comprehensive

Team-based health care
• Provide acute, preventive, comprehensive care
Care
• Use of external and internal resources to meet patients’ needs
• Care addressing phases of lifespan, including end of life care
• Disease management
Human Touch: Relationship-based care
• Patient selects Primary Care Provider(PCP)
Patient
• Consider patient’s preferences, cultural, linguistic & education needs
Centered Care
• Patient is involved in establishing the treatment plan & self management plans
Hours of Services are accessible with short waiting times.
Enhanced hours, around the clock telephone access.
Operation:
• Enhanced access –timely responses to patients needs
Superb Access
• 24/7 availability
System-based Use evidence based medicine and clinical decision support tools.
Use data to manage population health, chronic disease and performance improvement.
approach to
• Population based care
quality and
• Use of Health IT
safety

9

Page 22 of 76

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 ACHN 2016 Key PCMH Indicators Compliance

PGMH Milestones!

Elie??r Priority.r Indicators utr 1
Jan - Ilarch

    

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PEHH Patient Education 

113-5

Self-Management Goals 911% 51195

T395

241'? Access - Telephone Tree 5%

133-5

Quality Improvement: Population Management T995
Activity

42%

PEI: Patient Satisfaction Intervention 90% 553-5

 

 

 

 

 
 

COOK COUNTYHEALTH
8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM

Page 23 of 76 lt? CCH 

10 ACHN Quality Plan 2016

Continuous Accreditation Readiness
Oversight Activities
Environment of •
Care
•
•
•
•
•
Administrative •
•
Document
•
Review
•
Patient Safety •
•
•
•
•
•
Quality
Improvement •

11

Annual review and update of environment of care plans ( Utilities, Security, Hazmat,
emergency preparedness, fire safety, medical equipment)
- Individual safety/security plans unique for each site need to be completed by the new
police chief following recent shootings near Austin and Englewood Health centers
Annual Security and hazard vulnerability analysis
Monthly medical equipment & facility life safety work order reports
EOC local staff audits and quarterly quality staff site visits
EOC taskforce
Medication management task force
Annual Joint Commission focused standard assessment
Regulatory application update
Biennial review and update of existing policies
New policy approval
eMERS event tracking and review
RCA
Universal Protocol compliance audits
Annual Infection Control Risk Assessment & Infection Control plan update
Infection Control Hand Hygiene & sterilization surveillance
Performance Indicator dashboard trending
Local improvement activity support

Page 24 of 76

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 ACHN Quality Council
Patient Safety

Medication
Safety

Infection Control

Quality
Council
Environment of
Care

Meaningful use
Governance

PCMH

12

Council Membership:
Medical Director, Ambulatory Services
Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory Services
Director Quality, Ambulatory Services
Chief Quality Officer
Executive Director of Nursing, Ambulatory Services
Associate Medical Director Pediatrics, Ambulatory Services
Facilities Manager (ACHN)
Associate Medical Director Primary Care
Lead Physician Central Campus
Lead Physician North/West
Lead Physician Oak Forest and South Suburban
Lead Physician South Clinic Cluster
Regional & Divisional Directors Central Campus (Fantus &
Specialty Care Center)
Regional & Divisional Director North/West Cluster
Regional & Divisional Director South Cluster
Regional & Divisional Director South Suburban Cluster
Nurse Clinician Quality, ACHN
AA III Quality
Data Analysts

Page 25 of 76

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 ACHN Quality Reporting
Board of Directors
CCHHS

Board QPS
Committee

Executive Medical
Staff Stroger
Hospital

Quality
Committee
Stroger Hospital

13

ACHN Quality
Council

Cermak Health
Services Quality
Committee

Page 26 of 76

Executive Medical
Staff Provident
Hospital

Provident Quality
Committee

ACHN Quality Plan 2016

 CCHHS Ambulatory Services
Quality Assessment and Performance
Improvement Plan

2016

Page 27 of 76

 2016

Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

 

Strategy
Introduction
Background, Scope and Purpose
Governance and Leadership
a. Role of the Governing Board and Medical Leadership

b. Role of the Quality Director and Chief Quality Officer
c. Role of the Quality Council

IV. Transparency
V. Primary Care Medical Home (PCMH)
VI. Patient Safety
a. Adverse and Sentinel Events
b. Event Awareness and Notification
c. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events
i. Referral for Evaluation
ii. Root Cause Analysis
Just Culture
d. Event Resolution and Action Plans
e. Proactive Risk Assessments
i. Quality Committees Which Measure and Improve Patient Safety
Medication Management Taskforce
Environment of Care Taskforce
Affiliate Infection Control Committee
Affiliate Environment of Care Committee
ii. Priorities Patient Safety Projects
f. Culture of Safety
i. Assessment
ii. Intervention
Vll. Patient Complaints and Patient Satisfaction
Quality Metrics

 

3. Alignment with System Priorities

Description APP RQVED


c. Metric selection
Data Sources

 

 

 

i. HEDIS JUN 24 2013
.II EMR BY BOARUOF
maze-mas pr ?1'le COOK COUNTY
e. Data Acquisition and Analysis HEALTH AM. i menus SYSTEM
0 I 
2

Page 28 of 76

2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

IX.

Performance Improvement
a. Performance Targets
b. External Reporting

X.
XI.

Quality Program Oversight
Confidentiality

XII.

APPENDICES
a. Appendix A: Joint Commission Leadership Standards
b. Appendix B: Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards
c. Appendix C: Quality Reporting Structure
d. Appendix D: Quality Council
e. Appendix E: Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events
f. Appendix F: Sentinel Events (Joint Commission)
g. Appendix G: Quality Performance Measures
h. Appendix H: PCMH
i. Appendix I: Meaningful Use Stage I Indicators
j. Appendix J: Quality Audit Tools

3

Page 29 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

I.

Introduction:
The Ambulatory and Community Health Network’s (ACHN) mission is to deliver integrated health
services with dignity and respect, regardless of a patient’s ability to pay; to foster partnerships with
other health care providers and communities in order to enhance the health of the public; and to
advocate for policies which promote and protect the physical, mental and social interests of the people
of Cook County. Our vision is to provide accessible high quality, comprehensive primary care and
diagnostic services, utilizing a patient centered team based model of care. As outlined by the

Institute of Medicine Report ‘To Err is Human’, quality improvement efforts in health care
should ensure that patient care is safe, timely, effective, efficient, equitable and patient
centered. CCHHS and ACHN are committed to addressing all of these dimensions of quality
within the Quality Improvement Plan
Goals:
(1) Integrate all patients into a Primary Care Medical Home and assign them to a Primary Care
Provider of their choice.
(2) Actively engage patients and their families in their care and self-management.
(3) Organize evidenced-based patient care across all elements of the health system.
(4) Promote continuity in transitions of care from internal and external services.

The purpose of this document is to set forth the Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement
Plan for ACHN FY 2016. The plan aligns with the mission of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System (CCHHS), to provide a comprehensive program of quality healthcare with respect and dignity, to
all residents of Cook County, regardless of their ability to pay. The approach to quality improvement is
to enunciate achievement targets for performance improvement, and to assure approval of the plan by
the leaders of the organization including the Board of Directors.
II. Background and Scope: The Ambulatory & Community Health Network is committed to the delivery of
high quality patient care and sets forth a comprehensive quality improvement plan, which aligns with
the United States National Quality Strategy, to improve the quality of care, reduce costs and improve
health outcomes for patients serviced. The Joint Commission and CMS do not require organizations
that solely provide Ambulatory non-surgical care to have a formal quality plan in place. However the
Ambulatory & Community Health Network chooses to implement this plan to support the Cook County
Health and Hospitals System’s goal to provide excellent, high quality patient care and outlines the
specific mechanisms to achieve this objective.
The Ambulatory Quality Improvement Plan is designed to be approved by the governing body of CCHHS
which is the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of its committee on Quality and Patient
Safety after the approval by the Quality Council of ACHN and System Leadership. By approving the
plan, the Board of Directors, the System Leadership and the ACHN Quality Council are:
• Overseeing the quality and patient safety activities within Ambulatory
• Ensuring that the organization takes a proactive approach to planning for patient safety
and quality patient care
• Ensuring that an integrated safety program exists within the organization
• Setting priorities for performance improvement, evaluating the performance improvement
practices in the organization and ensuring that performance improvement strategies and
methodologies are implemented throughout the organization
4

Page 30 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

• Ensuring data collection and monitoring in diverse areas as specified below
• Ensuring that ACHN analyzes and compares the data it collects using statistical techniques
and that data and other information are used systematically for decision making.
This plan reflects the ACHN patient safety and quality priorities for FY 2016. The plan enumerates the
indicators related to health outcomes and describes the ACHN’s process to prevent and reduce medical
errors. ACHN quality assessment and performance improvement functions are divided into three major
domains. Thus the Quality Improvement plan is divided into sections to address each of the following:
a. Patient safety: Involves monitoring of Meaningful Use documentation, the recognition,
assessment and mitigation of adverse patient events, including sentinel events, and
involves retroactive as well as proactive risk assessment.
b. Quality assessment and reporting of quality metrics: Includes Meaningful Use measures,
physician quality reporting system or ‘PQRS’ measures and measures of patient satisfaction
with care.
c. Performance improvement efforts: Focus on high risk, high volume activities and problem
prone areas and set specific performance targets for these areas. Interdisciplinary
processes are used for performance improvement as described below. After implementing
improvement projects, the performance is tracked over time to assess the sustainability of
improvement efforts.
III. Governance and Leadership: Oversight of the quality plan for ACHN is provided by the Board of
Directors, Board Quality and Patient Safety Committee, the Quality Council, Executive Medical Staff,
and by the Executive Leadership of CCHHS. Quality and safety outcomes are a responsibility shared by
every member of the organization.
a. Role of the Governing Board and Medical Leadership:
The plan is approved by the ACHN Quality Council and is approved by the Quality and Patient
Safety Committee and the Board of Directors of CCHHS. The plan is shared with the Medical
Staff of affiliated hospitals. Results of patient safety assessments, quality metrics and results of
performance improvement projects are also reported to the Medical Staffs and the Board of
Directors in the same manner as described in APPENDIX C.
b. Role of the Quality Director and Chief Quality Officer:
The formulation of the Quality Plan is the responsibility of the ACHN Department of Quality and
Accreditation led by the Ambulatory Quality Director under the direction of the Chief Quality
Officer. They are responsible for content knowledge, reporting and quality improvement
facilitation with the quality staff. The plan is structured in collaboration with the ACHN Quality
Council, System Leadership and the system departments of Risk Management, Legal, and
Compliance. Implementation of the plan is the responsibility of the ACHN regional operations
directors, medical and nursing leadership.
c. Role of the Quality Council:
The ACHN Quality Council serves the dual function of oversight of the Quality Program as well
as the Patient Safety Program. The composition and leadership of this committee is presented
in APPENDIX D. This Council meets monthly and reviews all quality metrics and patient safety
events, and prioritizes performance improvement projects. The Council chair or designee
reports the activities of the committee to the Executive Medical Staff on a monthly basis.
5

Page 31 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

IV. Transparency: CCHHS and ACHN are committed to transparency in the abstraction and reporting of
quality metrics. These metrics, together with the performance targets set by the leadership, are to be
disseminated widely among leadership and staff, and will be available for viewing internally on the
CCHHS website.
V. Primary Care Medical Home (PCMH): ACHN successfully achieved PCMH certification of the Joint
Commission Primary Care Medical Home Model during FY 2015 which was represented by one Primary
Care site. ACHN is committed to implementing this model of care in all fifteen primary care sites during
FY 2016. A description of the core functions of the Medical Home is contained in APPENDIX I. This
certification also supports the new federal health care reform strategy which is to improve health
outcomes, continuity, quality and efficiency of health care services. The goal of the certification process
is to evaluate how effectively a primary care provider and interdisciplinary team work in partnership
with the patient and their family. This patient-centric approach is encouraged and benefits patients by
increased access to the primary care providers and their care team. Patient care is more efficiently
tracked, coordinated and health information technology features are used to support care. There is
more patient involvement in the development of the treatment plan and there is a more significant
role in the self-management of their care. Current PCMH improvement efforts include enhancing
leadership engagement around ownership of PCMH milestones implementation. Executive, regional
and local leadership collaborations are encouraged across service lines to tailor site specific
implementation and oversight processes in key PCMH areas: patient information, referral tracking,
performance improvement, health literacy, patient access and primary care provider choice. Staff and
patient education regarding Medical Home functions are also important components of PCMH
sustainability efforts.
VI. Patient Safety Program: The ACHN Quality Council is the multidisciplinary group (APPENDIX D) which
provides guidance and leadership for ACHN’s patient safety program. The Quality Council receives
reports of adverse and sentinel events and determines the priorities for corrective action plans,
performance improvement projects arising from the evaluation of such events and patient safety
hazards identified.
a. Adverse and Sentinel Events: The definition, reporting and evaluation of adverse events are
dictated by regulation and ACHN policy. The initial reporting process is outlined in APPENDIX
E. All significant events are evaluated by departments and the Quality Council. Root cause
analyses are performed for all sentinel events as defined by CCHHS policy and the Joint
Commission (APPENDIX F). The results of investigations and recommendations for
performance improvement are presented to the Quality Council which prioritizes performance
improvement activities and monitors progress toward the achievement.
b. Event Awareness and Notification: Adverse events may be reported using a variety of systems:
i. Electronic event reporting system: electronic reporting systems such as eMERS,
function within a PSO (patient safety organization). This feature allows honest and
timely reporting which supports efforts to evaluate and mitigate potential risks.
ii. Phone calls: confidential phone reports may be made by care providers to the Quality
Improvement/Patient Safety department, to Risk Management, or to the Executive
Medical Director. These reports are also entered into the event reporting system by
quality and risk which permits tracking of all reported events.
6

Page 32 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

iii. Departmental reports: medical departments and the nursing leadership will have
internal review processes to assess the quality of care provided by members of their
respective disciplines. This includes oversight activities and reviews performed for
OPPE or FPPE (ongoing or focused professional practice evaluation).
iv. Referrals from outside agencies: although rare, events may be identified during review
by state or national regulators.
All of the above events regardless of the method of identification are reported internally as
described in APPENDIX E and evaluated as described below.
c. Evaluation of Adverse and Sentinel Events: The management of adverse and sentinel events is
described in ACHN policy. These serious events are evaluated expeditiously and thoroughly
with a goal to understand contributory factors to mitigate risks and prevent future
occurrences.
i. Referral for Evaluation: all reported adverse events are reviewed by Quality and
Patient safety staff to determine the severity of the event and the urgency of
evaluation. ACHN is committed to performing a timely, thorough and credible root
cause analysis (RCA) on all sentinel events and ‘Serious Reportable Events’ as well as all
adverse events which do not fit either criteria but are deemed to require further
investigation.
ii. Root Cause Analysis: the root cause analysis includes participation by appropriate
ACHN leadership and the individuals most closely involved with the event or systems
which contributed to the event. The framework for the RCA is the one developed by
the Joint Commission which focuses on systems and not individuals.
iii. Just Culture and Accountability: ACHN uses a ‘just culture’ approach to determine the
level of individual accountability for adverse events. The focus is on system factors and
individual accountability when appropriate
d. Event Resolution and Action Plans: The RCA should identify systems changes to reduce the risk
of recurrence of similar events which should result in an action plan. The action plan will
identify the person(s) responsible for the implementation of the plan and define measures of
success for it. Responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness of the action plan is delegated to
the Quality Council.
e. Proactive Risk Assessments: ACHN conducts proactive risk assessments in several high risk
areas. High-risk, high-volume areas are targeted by ACHN for special projects in FY 2016 and
these are described below.
i. Quality committees and subgroups which measure and improve patient safety: These
committees are required to collect and report data related to high-risk processes in
patient care. These committees define priorities for process improvement and engage
in improvement activities.
a. Medication Management Taskforce: This multidisciplinary subgroup provides
internal analysis of medication related problem prone areas and recurrent
issues identified in the electronic Medical Event Reporting system (eMERS). It
provides oversight of practices and protocols to encourage compliance and
addresses issues and concerns affecting patient care delivery and quality of
care.
7

Page 33 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

b. Environment of Care Taskforce: This multidisciplinary subgroup conducts
internal reviews of identified environment of care issues and concerns
identified to determine processes that mitigate risks for patients and staff.
c. Infection Control Committee: The priorities for this committee for FY 2016
include improving compliance with High level disinfection, sterilization, hand
hygiene, patient and employee influenza vaccination.
ii. Priority Patient Safety Projects: ACHN has prioritized four high-risk, high-volume clinical
processes for robust multidisciplinary process improvement initiatives. These are
described below:
a. Transitions in Care: The discharge from the ED and inpatient setting is a
particularly vulnerable time for patients, especially when there are limited
financial, family and social resources available. The likelihood of readmission to
hospitals, repeated ED visits, duplication of services is prevalent when patients
are not reconnected with their primary care providers and/or health care
teams. To optimize the safety of the discharge transition, in FY 2016 ACHN
seeks to enhance the in-reach and out-reach efforts for patients in
collaboration with CCHHS and other hospitals in Chicago and the surrounding
suburban areas. The reinforcement of follow-up compliance with PCP’s and
interdisciplinary teams is messaged to patients. This will be monitored with the
measurement of compliance with post hospital and ED discharge follow-up
within 14 days.
b. Learning Needs Assessment: Learning barriers impact patients’ overall health
status. Every individual has their own preference in how they receive new
information. It is essential to identify barriers to improve patient learning and
identify learning preferences to help optimize educational encounters. ACHN
developed and launched a Learning Needs screening tool in May 2015 to
determine the learning and health literacy needs of its patient population.
Interventions will be developed based on the findings.
c. Patient and Employee Influenza Vaccination compliance: Influenza is a highly
contagious and unpredictable virus that can result in serious illness and death,
and can cause disease in all age groups. Vaccination is the most effective way
to decrease transmission to patients and others. ACHN supports the CCHHS
Employee Influenza vaccination program and has developed an EMR decision
support driven patient vaccination program. Patient influenza vaccination
surveillance data will be displayed internally in monthly system-wide
informational briefs for all locations.
d. Accurately Identifying patients: Patient errors can occur in all stages of
diagnosis, services and treatment due to not reliably identifying patients.
Using at least two identifiers is essential to preventing these types of errors.
ACHN continues to monitor the use of name and birth date identifiers at all
point of service through observational audits of staff and the review of medical
record entries.
f.

Culture of Safety: ACHN is taking steps to improve the culture of safety in the organization.
Culture reflects the beliefs and attitudes of ACHN staffs, and is measured using a validated

8

Page 34 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

survey. A positive culture of safety is associated with the increased reporting of adverse events
and the reporting of behaviors which strengthen patient safety efforts.
i. Assessment: An assessment tool (developed and validated by Press Ganey) which
allows comparison to benchmark data is used at CCHHS for the assessment of a safety
culture. It is administered at all CCHHS affiliates and is analyzed using national
benchmark data.
ii. Interventions: Interventions will be performed in 2016 based on the culture of safety
survey results to be administered in 2016. These include:
a. Leadership walk rounds: These rounds permit leaders to directly communicate
safety priorities, support reporting behaviors and to hear staff concerns.
b. Interdisciplinary rounds or huddles: These rounds permit the robust
interdisciplinary planning of patient care initiatives, which include improving
the patient experience, infection prevention and the environment of care.
These rounds utilize a structured format and are led by clinic based staff.
c. Facility and clinic based safety programs provide opportunities for all staff to
participate in quality improvement programs.
VII. Patient Complaints and Patient Satisfaction: Patient feedback and perceptions of the safety and
quality of care are vitally important to the development of a responsive, patient centered organization.
ACHN welcomes feedback, comments and complaints from patients and recognizes that patients and
their families have the right to have complaints reviewed by the organization. A complaint resolution
process has been realized by the office of the Chief Operating Officer for ambulatory services. Health
center and clinic administrators receive, prioritize and respond to all complaints from patients. Serious
consideration is given to every complaint and ACHN policy is established regarding the timeliness of
resolution. These processes are designed not only to enhance patient satisfaction but to also identify
conditions which may impact patient safety.
Structured surveys of selected patient samples seen for office visits are administered by an
independent organization. The results are reported to ACHN leadership. This type of feedback from
patients is used to restructure processes that support patient safety, communication and patient
education.
VIII.
Quality Metrics: Quality measures are collected and reported to monitor and enhance the quality
of care; to report to the federal state and county governments as applicable; for legal and regulatory
purposes and to support reimbursement and pay for performance (P4P) initiatives. Our patient
population is defined based on the HEDIS definition, which is: Any patient with at least two ACHN or
CORE primary care visits within the last two years (irrespective of payor) AND Patients empaneled to
ACHN through our insurance partners, County Care, Aetna Better Health and Illini Care.
a. Alignment with System Priorities: Ambulatory quality priorities support the system priorities to
improve access to care, demonstrate excellence in the delivery of care, and improve patient
satisfaction. The Ambulatory Key Priority indicators are represented in APPENDIX G, which
focuses on population health and prevention.
b. Description of Metrics: A quality metric allows us to measure performance in different
domains (sphere of influence):
i. Outcome measure (O) – These measures assess the patient's health status after receiving
health care services. It can be used to evaluate the quality of care to the extent that health
9

Page 35 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

care services influence the likelihood of desired health outcomes. Examples include
outcomes such as glucose control and childhood Immunization compliance.
ii. Process measure (P) – These measures assess the actual health care service provided to or
on behalf of a patient. Evidence based processes reflect good clinical practice. High levels
of achievement in these areas may correlate with good patient outcomes. Examples are
post hospital discharge follow-up and telephone access. Timely follow-up and the ability to
communicate with care providers are vital toward preventing readmission and repeat ED
visits.
iii. Structural measure (S) – These measures describe features of a health care organization or
clinical relevance to its capacity to provide health care. Examples are the use of CPOE and
ePrescribe.
iv. Population health measures: These measures apply to groups of persons identified by
geographic location, organizational affiliation or non-clinical characteristics, in order to
assess public health programs. Communities may have influences on health or populationlevel health characteristics that may not be directly attributable to the care delivery
system. These measures are supported by evidence to demonstrate that they can indicate
better or worse performance of population health activities. An example is influenza
vaccination.
c. Metric Selection & Data Abstraction: Metrics are selected in support of best practices,
evidenced based clinical care and regulatory requirements. They are approved and guided by
the Ambulatory Quality council. CCHHS uses computer supported data abstraction through the
electronic medical record (EMR) system which supports the Care Management application
(CMApp) and the abstraction of Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Meaningful
use measures.
i.

Quality Council: The Council reviews data, prioritizes quality initiatives, patient care
services, and conducts the review of suggested quality metrics from various disciplines.
The membership includes quality improvement staff, nursing directors and medical
staff leadership; see APPENDIX D for the complete membership listing.

d. Data Sources: Different data sources are used to assist with the surveillance and evaluation of
outcome and process measures. HEDIS, EMR abstraction and CMApp are data sources utilized
for these purposes. During 2016 data abstraction measures will be transitioning to align with
HEDIS metrics and population reporting.
i. HEDIS - The Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set: A widely used
set of performance measures developed and maintained by the National
Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). The data provides benchmarks
based on national or regional comparisons.
ii. EMR - Electronic Medical Record Abstraction: HIS report writers build
customized reports as well as supply data and links to support adhoc
abstraction. Compliance is measured as a percentage.
iii. CMApp – Care Management Application: An electronic registry database linked
to the EMR, used for the Patient Centered Primary Care Medical Homes
(PCMH) of CCHHS. CMApp focuses on facility visit based management of
patient panels.

10

Page 36 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

•
•
•

Panel reports to support management of patient panel size, provider
scheduling and capacity analysis
Day of care plan report to support day of visit care
Outreach reports to support the patient list for care management

e. Data Acquisition and Analysis: ACHN collects data in a variety of settings to support the quality
enterprise. The Board of Directors along with system leadership and the Executive Medical
Staff set the priorities for data collection as well as the frequency of data collection. The Board
of Directors assures adequate resources to accomplish data acquisition and analyses required
for the quality program. The priorities and requirements for data collection for FY 2016 are
summarized in the tables in APPENDICES G and H. Data is compared to external benchmarks
whenever these are available and the significance of the comparison is evaluated using
statistical techniques. Data is displayed using dashboards which show the evolution of
performance over time and is correlated with performance improvement initiatives. The data
will be assessed using statistical process control techniques which can differentiate between
special and common causes of variation; this information will be used to describe the nature of
performance improvement initiatives which can best address variation. The goal is to achieve
high reliability in quality measures
IX. Performance Improvement: Priorities for performance improvement are established by the
organizations leadership, which includes the Quality Council, Executive Medical Staff, System
Leadership and the Board of Directors. High-risk, high-volume or problem prone areas are prioritized
for performance improvement projects after consideration of the incidence, prevalence and severity of
problems in these areas and whether these problems are known to affect health outcomes, patient
safety and quality of care. Performance improvement projects are proportional to the scope and
complexity of ACHN’s services, as outlined in APPENDICES G and H.
ACHN’s approach to performance improvement projects is in a transitional phase from P-D-C-A to a
Lean/Six Sigma approach. This choice reflects the emphasis on value in health care operations and the
alignment of lean concepts with value and the reduction of waste. This approach accurately reflects
the multidisciplinary nature of health care and the processes under study. The lean approach also
supports the possibility of rapid cycle performance improvement which may be used in selected cases,
particularly in unit based improvement programs. Performance improvement projects will address
variation by designing high-reliability interventions which are known to create sustained changes. This
includes system redesign, forcing functions, checks and redundancies and consideration of human
factors. Monitoring of performance improvement activities will be provided by the ACHN Quality
Council. Staff in the department of Quality and Accreditation will process data required for
performance improvement projects and provide facilitation for these projects as required.
a. Performance Targets: These are determined by the type of data (process or outcome) and by
indicator. A subset of process measures has been selected for ACHN for FY 2016, which are
listed in APPENDIX G. The goal for outcome measures is to achieve all thresholds and set all
targets above the national average.
b. External reporting: Quality assessment and reporting of quality metrics include the Meaningful
Use, ‘PQRS’ or process measures required for reporting to CMS and the Joint Commission.

11

Page 37 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

i. Meaningful Use (MU): Specific objectives are established for eligible
professionals (EPs), which must be achieved to qualify for Centers for Medicare
& Medicaid Services (CMS) incentive programs. It involves the utilization of a
certified electronic medical record (EMR) technology to improve quality, safety,
efficiency to reduce health disparities. There is a focus on patient and family
engagement which involves improved care coordination, population and public
health. Logic is built is into the EMR for data abstraction and reporting to CMS.
The objectives evolve three stages (1, 2, and 3) over a five year period. The list of
Stage 2 Ambulatory Meaningful use objectives is available in APPENDIX I.
ii. Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS): ACHN clinics will be reporting
through the PQRS program for physician specific outpatient quality and
Meaningful Use measures. The PQRS metrics that reflect the burden of disease
and major risk factors in our ambulatory population are listed in APPENDIX J.
X. Quality Program Oversight: The Quality program is routinely monitored for regulatory compliance
through the completion of targeted quality audit tools by local site leadership which is validated by
their respective regional administrative and divisional nursing leadership hierarchy. Surveillance is
further supplemented with quarterly tracers performed by Quality and Infection control staff who
calculates compliance rates for Environment of care, Patient care, Infection Control, and Medication
Management risk areas. Rates are displayed as monthly &/or quarterly scores on the ACHN Quality
Dashboard. Collaborations are being established with Pharmacy, Laboratory and Safety departments
for similar surveillance practices.
Ongoing and recurrent issues are escalated to ACHN executive leadership to intervene and implement
solutions to resolve matters. The following local monitors are in position: Site administrators complete
monthly audits for the environment of care, life safety, hazardous waste collection and destruction
reconciliation, biannual fire drill critiques, annual emergency preparedness drills, security vulnerability
analysis, chemical inventory and key control audits. The nursing staff completes monthly audits on
medication storage, medication refrigerator temperatures, point of care laboratory areas, sterilization
and disinfection. Combined staff audits are completed monthly on PCMH milestone compliance,
quarterly for hand hygiene, national patient safety goals and daily air ventilation checks on relevant
rooms such as negative pressure rooms as applicable to space. Samples of the ACHN Quality Dashboard
and audit tools are included in Appendix K.
XI. Confidentiality: All information, data, reports, minutes or memoranda relating to the implementation
of this Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement plan are solely for use in the course of
internal quality control for the purpose of reducing morbidity and mortality and improving patient care.
As such, they are strictly confidential under the Illinois Medical Studies and Hospital Licensing Act. The
confidentiality of patient specific data will be protected in observance of HIPAA regulations and
aggregated, de-identified data will be used whenever possible for quality data reporting.

12

Page 38 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX A:
Joint Commission Leadership Standards
LD.01.03.01
The governing body is ultimately accountable for the safety and quality of care, treatment and services. The
governing body defines in writing its responsibilities
LD 02.01.01
The mission vision and goals of the organization support the safety and quality of care, treatment and services.
LD.02.03.01
Leaders regularly communicate with each other on issues of safety and quality. Leaders discuss issues that affect
the organization and the population it serves, including performance improvement activities, reported safety and
quality issues, proposed solutions and their impact on resources, reports on key quality measures and safety
indicators, safety and quality issues specific to the population served.
LD.03.01.01
Leaders create and maintain a culture of safety throughout the organization. Leaders regularly evaluate the culture
of safety and and implement changes identified by the evaluation.
LD.03.02.01
The organization uses data and information to guide decisions and to understand variation in the performance of
processes supporting safety and quality.
LD 03.03.01
Leaders use organization wide planning to establish structures and processes that focus on safety and quality
LD 03.04.01
The organization communicates information related to safety and quality to those who need it, including staff,
licensed independent practitioners, patients, families and external interested parties.
LD.03.05.01
Leaders implement changes in existing processes to improve the performance of the organization. Structures for
managing change and performance improvement exist. The organization describes its approach to performance
improvement, and its capacity for change support a culture of safety and quality
LD 03.06.01
Those who work in the organization are focused on improving safety and quality. Leaders design work processes
that focus on safety and quality issues and describe how those who work in the organization support a culture of
safety and quality. The effectiveness of those who work in the organization to promote safety and quality is
evaluated.
13

Page 39 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

LD.04.04.01
Leaders establish priorities for performance improvement; set priorities for performance improvement activities
and patient health outcomes, and give priority to high-volume, high-risk or problem prone processes for
performance improvement activities.
LD.04.04.03
New or modified services and processes are well designed incorporating multiple factors (i.e. patient/staff needs,
results of quality activities, information about potential risks, and sentinel event information)
LD.04.04.05
The organization has an organization-wide, integrated patient safety program within its performance improvement
activities. The leaders implement a hospital-wide patient safety program. One or more qualified individuals or an
interdisciplinary group manages the safety program. The scope of the safety program includes the full range of
safety issues, from potential or no-harm errors to hazardous conditions and sentinel events. All departments,
programs and services within the hospital participate in the safety program.

14

Page 40 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX B:
Joint Commission Performance Improvement Standards
PI.01.01.01, EP 1-8, 11, 12, 14-16, 30,
The organization collects data to monitor its performance. Leaders set priorities for data collection. The leaders
identify the frequency for data collection. The organization collects data on
• the performance improvement priorities identified by leaders
• operative and other procedures that place the patient at risk of disability or death
• all significant discrepancies between preoperative and postoperative diagnoses, including pathologic
diagnoses
• adverse events related to using moderate or deep sedation
• use of blood and blood components
• all reported and confirmed transfusion reactions
• significant medication errors
• significant adverse drug reactions
• patient perception of the safety and quality of care, treatment, and services
• Considers collecting data on:
staff opinion and needs;
- Staff perception of risks to individual
- Staff suggestions to improve safety processes
- Staff willingness to report adverse events
PI.02.01.01, EP 1, 2,4,5,8
The organization compiles and analyzes data. The organization compiles data in usable formats, identifies the
frequency for data analysis, compares internal data over time to identify levels of performance, patterns, trends
and variations, and compares data with external sources, when available and uses the results to identify
improvement trends.
PI.03.01.01, EP 1-4
The organization improves performance. Leaders prioritize the identified improvement opportunities. The
organization takes action on improvement priorities. The organization evaluates actions to confirm that they
resulted in improvements, takes action when it does not achieve or sustain planned improvements.

15

Page 41 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX C:
CCHHS Quality Reporting Overview

Board of Directors
CCHHS

Board QPS
Committee

Executive Medical
Staff Stroger
Hospital

Quality Committee
Stroger Hospital

ACHN Quality
Council

Cermak Health
Services Quality
Committee

Executive Medical
Staff Provident
Hospital

Provident Quality
Committee

The ACHN Quality Council reports ambulatory metrics to the Board QPS committee either directly through the COO
of Ambulatory Services or through the Chief Quality Officer. The ACHN Quality Council communicates with the
Executive Medical Staffs as required to support quality improvement and patient safety efforts.

16

Page 42 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX D:
ACHN Quality Council
Committee and other Reports to be Received:
Patient
Safety

Infection
Control

Medication
Safety

Quality
Council
Meaningful
Use
Governance

Environment
of Care

PCMH

Council Membership:
Medical Director, Ambulatory Services
Chief Operating Officer, Ambulatory Services
Director Quality, Ambulatory Services
Chief Quality Officer
Executive Director of Nursing, Ambulatory Services
Associate Medical Director Pediatrics, Ambulatory Services
Facilities Manager (ACHN)
Associate Medical Director Primary Care
Lead Physician Central Campus
Lead Physician North/West
Lead Physician Oak Forest and South Suburban
Lead Physician South Clinic Cluster
Regional & Divisional Directors Central Campus (Fantus & Specialty Care Center)
Regional & Divisional Director North/West Cluster
Regional & Divisional Director South Cluster
Regional & Divisional Director South Suburban Cluster
Nurse Clinician Quality, ACHN
AA III Quality
Data Analysts

17

Page 43 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX E:
Recognition and Reporting of Adverse Events

Clinical Adverse Event or
Near Miss Event

Clinical Adverse Event

Near Miss Event: No
Patient Harm

Attending Physician
Notified

Sentinel Event

Not Sentinel Event

Significant Risk

No Critical Factors per
Attending Physician

Patient or Family Concern

Notify Risk Management
Immediately

Notify Chief Medical
Officer/Executive Medical
Director

Notify Department Chair
or Oversight Committee
Notify Quality

Leadership Notification:
COO, Executive Medical
Director, Quality

Disclosure to Patient
and/or Representative

Disclosure to Patient
and/or Representative

18

Page 44 of 76

Enter into On-Line Event
Reporting System
Notify Supervisor

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX F:
Sentinel Events (Joint Commission)

The event has resulted in an unanticipated death or major permanent loss of function not related to the natural
course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition§   
or
1. The event is one of the following (even if the outcome was not death or major permanent loss of function
not related to the natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition):
2. Suicide of any patient receiving care, treatment and services in a staffed around the-clock care setting or
within 72 hours of discharge, including the hospital’s emergency department (ED)
3. Unanticipated death of a full-term infant, Abduction of any patient receiving care, treatment, and services
4. Discharge of an infant to the wrong family
5. Rape, assault (leading to death or permanent loss of function), or homicide of any patient receiving care,
treatment, and services while on site at the hospital
6. Rape, assault (leading to death or permanent loss of function), or homicide of a staff member, licensed
independent practitioner, visitor, or vendor while on site at the health care organization
7. Hemolytic transfusion reaction involving administration of blood or blood products having major blood
group incompatibilities (ABO, Rh, other blood groups)
8. Invasive procedure, including surgery, on the wrong patient, wrong site, or wrong procedure**
9. Unintended retention of a foreign object in a patient after surgery or other invasive procedures
10. Severe neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (bilirubin >30 milligrams/deciliter)
11. Prolonged fluoroscopy with cumulative dose >1,500 rads to a single field or any delivery of radiotherapy to
the wrong body region or >25% above the planned radiotherapy dose
12. Any elopement (that is unauthorized departure) of a patient from a staffed around the clock care setting
(including the ED), leading to death, permanent harm or severe temporary harm.
13. Fire, flame or unanticipated smoke, heat or flashes occurring during an episode of patient care.
14. Any intrapartum (related to the birth process) maternal death or severe maternal morbidity.
**____________________________________________________________________
§A distinction is made between an adverse outcome that is primarily related to the natural course of the
patient’s illness or underlying condition (not reviewed under the Sentinel Event Policy) and a death or
major permanent loss of function that is associated with the treatment (including “recognized
complications”) or lack of treatment of that condition, or otherwise not clearly and primarily related to
the natural course of the patient’s illness or underlying condition (reviewable under the Sentinel Event
Policy). In indeterminate cases, the event will be presumed reviewable and the hospital’s response will
be reviewed under the Sentinel Event Policy according to the prescribed procedures and time frames
without delay for additional information such as autopsy results.
  Major permanent loss of function means sensory, motor, physiologic, or intellectual impairment not
present on admission requiring continued treatment or lifestyle change. When major permanent loss of
function cannot be immediately determined, applicability of the policy is not established until either
the patient is discharged with continued major loss of function or two weeks have elapsed with
persistent major loss of function, whichever is the longer period.
#Sexual abuse/assault (including rape), as a reviewable sentinel event, is defined as unconsented sexual
contact involving a patient and another patient, staff member, or other perpetrator while being treated
or on the premises of the hospital, including oral, vaginal or anal penetration or fondling of the
patient’s sex organ(s) by another individual’s hand, sex organ, or object. One or more of the following
must be present to determine reviewability:
n Any staff-witnessed sexual contact as described above
n Admission by the perpetrator that sexual contact, as described above, occurred on the premises
n Sufficient clinical evidence obtained by the hospital to support allegations of unconsented sexual contact

19

Page 45 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX G
2016 Ambulatory Quality Indicators
Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s)
Overall Satisfaction

P

85

63
Internal baseline

HCAHPS
survey

Monthly/
Quarterly

Ease of moving through the
clinic ‘good’

P

75

63
Internal baseline

HCAHPS
survey

Monthly/
Quarterly

Ease of reaching clinic on
the phone ‘good’

P

75

59
Internal baseline

HCAHPS
survey

Monthly/
Quarterly

Children with UTD
immunization at 24 months

O

90%

87%
HEDIS

Cerner/
ICARE registry

Monthly/
Quarterly

Children with one lead
Screen level by 24 months

p

90%

82.2%
IHC

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Diabetics with Annual A1c

P

90%

75th %tile
HEDIS

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Diabetics with A1C < 9%

O

80%

79%
HEDIS

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Provide Access for Inpatient
follow-up within 14 days

P

60%

60%
Illinois

MHN Connect D/
Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Adult Influenza Vaccination

O

90%

42.2%
CDC

Cerner

Monthly
Seasonal

Children Developmental
Screening First 3 years of life

P

Establish
baseline

65.7%
Illinois

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Well Child Visits the first 15
months of Life

P

Establish
baseline

75th % tile
HEDIS

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Well Child Visits the 3rd, 4th,
5th and 6th years of Life

P

Establish
baseline

75th % tile
HEDIS

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Women 50 – 74y with
Biennial Mammogram

P

Establish
baseline

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Diabetic with Annual
retinal exam

P

Establish
baseline

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Adults 50-75 with colon
cancer screen

P

Establish
baseline

Cerner

Monthly/
Quarterly

Other KPI’s

75th % tile
HEDIS

20

Page 46 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

2016 HEDIS P4P Indicators
Indicators

Benchmark

Data Source

Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s)
Childhood Immunization Status at 2 years

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

60%
Illinois

Cerner

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Childhood Developmental Screen first 3 Years of Life

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Well Child Visits the first 15 months of Life

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Well Child Visits 3 , 4 , 5 and 6th years of Life

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Prenatal and Postpartum Care:
•Timeliness of Prenatal Care
•Postpartum Care

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Follow up After Hospitalization for Mental Illness

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Anti-depressant Management

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Adult Access to Preventive services and Screening

HEDIS
75th %tile

Cerner

Ambulatory Care follow-up 14 days after hospitalization
Comprehensive Diabetes Care:
•Annual Hemoglobin A1c testing
•Hemoglobin A1c > 9
•Hemoglobin A1c < 8
Other P4P Health Plan Indicators
•Annual Diabetic Retinal exam
•Annual Nephropathy screen

rd

th

th

21

Page 47 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX H:
ACHN – PCMH Requirements

OPERATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS & REQUIREMENTS

Coordinated Care

Care is coordinated across the broader health care system, including specialty care,
hospitals, home care, community services and support. Transitions of care between
care sites with focused emphasis on discharges from hospitals and emergency
departments:
• Use of internal and external resources to meet patients’ needs
• Responsibility for care coordination
• Team-based approach

Comprehensive

Team-based health care with providers and other health care workers and services,
working together to meet the complete needs of the patient:
• Provision of acute, preventive, chronic, continuous and comprehensive care
• Team-based approach and the use of team approach to provide care
• Use of external and internal resources to meet patients’ needs
• PCP background and experience to handle healthcare needs
• Care addressing phases of lifespan, including end of life care
• Disease management

Human Touch:

Relationship-based care focuses on the whole person. Requires partnering with the
patient, understanding and respecting their needs, culture, values and preferences:
• Patient selected Primary Care Provider(PCP)
• PCP, healthcare team and patient partnership
• Consideration of patient’s preferences, cultural, linguistic & education needs
• Patient involvement in establishing the treatment plan
• Support for patient self-management

Care

Patient Centered
Care

Hours of Operation:

Services are accessible with shorter waiting times for urgent needs. Enhanced inperson hours, around the clock telephone or electronic access is to the care team
provided. Alternative methods of communication such as e-mail and telephone are
available:
• Enhanced access –timely responses to patients needs
• 24/7 availability
• Access for special communication and non-visit patient needs

System-based

Using evidenced based medicine and clinical decision support tools to guide decision
making. Using data to manage population health, chronic disease and performance
improvement:
• Population based care and care of patient panel
• Use of Health IT for eRX and CPOE
• Use of evidence based medicine and decision support tools
• Patient involvement in performance improvement efforts

Superb Access to
care

approach to quality
and safety

22

Page 48 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX H Cont’d
Key PCMH Milestones
Indicator

Domain

Target

Benchmark Data Source
March 2015

1. PCMH Clinic Greeting

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

2. Active PCMH Patient
Education

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

3. GPS/Medical Home Info.
Distribution

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

4. Patient Self-Management
Goal engagement process

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

5. Team Huddle Activity

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

6. 24/7 Telephone tree

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

7. Referral Tracking

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

8. Quality Improvement:
Population Management
Activity

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

9. Patient Experience:
Telephone Etiquette Script

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

10. Patient Experience:
Clinic Specific Intervention

P

90%

7%

Audit/ Tracer

Monthly/Quarterly

23

Page 49 of 76

Reporting Interval

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX I
Ambulatory 2016 Meaningful Use Eligible Provider (EP) Objectives
Meaningful Use objectives

Threshold Requirement

Changes

CPOE of medication orders

60%

Up 30%

CPOE of lab orders

30%

New

CPOE of Radiology orders

30%

New

ePrescribe

50%

Up 40%

Electronic Transition of Care

10%

New

Medication reconciliation

50%

Offer Portal Access

50%

Patient access portal

1 patient (CCHHS Std = 5%)

New

Secure Messaging

1 patient (CCHHS Std = 5%)

New

Provide Patient education

10%

Now required

Clinical Decision Support

5

Up 4

*Maintain Active Allergy list

80%

CCHHS Measure

*Maintain Active Medication list

80%

CCHHS Measure

*Maintain Up to date Problem list

80%

CCHHS Measure

*Perform Depart Summary

50%

CCHHS Measure

24

Page 50 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

APPENDIX J: ACHN Quality Program Audit List

Below is a listing of Accreditation audits and reviews that site administrators and nurse coordinators are
responsible for completing along with the frequency. Surveillance is also expected at the Regional and
Divisional Nurse Director leadership levels. Copies of the audit and oversight tools are included. They
can also be located on the ACHN intranet site in the forms section of the associated chapter folder.
Site Administrators: Coordinated by Frank Zayyad AAIII, Ambulatory Quality
312-864-0752
• Emergency preparedness – Annual
• EOC/ Life safety checklist – Monthly
• Fire Drill Evaluation - Biannual
• eMERS patient complaint follow-up – within 14 days
• updating the chemical inventory list annually
• Annual Security inspection
• ACHN Key Control Log
• Maintaining hazardous waste manifest and monthly destruction receipt reconciliation
Nurse Coordinators / Nurse Clinicians Coordinated by Doris Kelley RN, Quality Nurse Clinician –
312-864-0756
• Medication Unit Inspection form
• National Patient Safety Audit (NPSG)
• Medication Refrigerator temperature monitoring
• Hand Hygiene observation ( submitted directly to Infection control Liaison, Thelma Lim)
• Ventilation, Sterilization, Instrument Re-processing and Disinfection
• Laboratory Checklist ( Medical Director/ Lab tech are responsible) – Monthly
• eMERS patient event follow-up – within 14 days
• PCMH Audit (new tool)
Oversight Surveillance Tools - Quarterly (Regional & Divisional Nurse Directors)
• EOC/ Life safety checklist (Same as Administrator EOC Checklist)
• Clinical Surveillance Checklist

25

Page 51 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#1
Environment of Care / Life Safety Checklist

Site: ______________________Date____________________ Conducted By: ____________________________________
Any ‘No” response requires corrective action at the health center. Please record corrective action and the date action was taken in
“comment “If not completed survey considered incomplete

NO

ENVIRONMENT/MEDICAL EQUIPMENT/STORAGE

YES

Hand washing reminder signs are posted, approved
antimicrobial soap, hand lotion at sink. Alcohol gel available
installed away from sink
Environment of care is clean and appropriate for patient care:
Rooms are clean, neat and organized (No obvious dust, dirt,
blood, spills or clutter.) Note: High areas such as ceiling tiles,
curtains etc. are also checked for dust and dirt.
Storage is off floor, and not present under sink area(s).
Storage is not > 18 inches from the ceiling. Storage areas are
neat and not over stocked. Clean and sterile items are stored
separately.
Note: All Supplies are removed from shipping boxes.
Exam table/chair upholstery is intact
Medical Equipment is clean and dust free, (Blood pressure
cuffs are cleaned daily)
Medical Equipment has current inspection CE tag.
Compressed gas cylinders are chained or racked and labeled
empty, partial or full
Biohazard containers or bags are available where needed and
used only for medical waste.
Sharps containers are installed at injection location and are <
¾ full. (Needles are NOT recapped).
Restricted areas such as Dirty utility, telecommunications,
Janitorial closets and mechanical rooms are closed, locked
and secure.
Staff uses electronic Global Harmonizing SDS to locate onsite chemical products.
Hazardous Material Manifest file is reconciled with
destruction receipt.
*Dental Clinics: Teeth with amalgam filling, x-ray foil packs
are disposed in recycling containers
Lead Aprons are hung in between use and inspected by
physicist annually for cracks and tears
LIFE SAFETY INSPECTION

YES

Exits are free and unobstructed.
Corridors are free of equipment and trash. Doors are not
wedged or propped open.
Fire extinguishers are accessible and gauge indicator in the
green area. The toe tag has monthly inspection date.
Fire Alarm pull stations are accessible and
undamaged
Exit signs and emergency lights are properly illuminated and
test button are activated monthly
Inspection includes Fire escape ladder
Smoking policy is enforced
Portable emergency flashlight is working

NO

26

Page 52 of 76

N/A

N/A

COMMENTS

COMMENTS

DATE OF
ACTION

DATE OF
ACTION

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#2

Ventilation, Sterilization, Instrument Re-processing and Disinfection Audit Tool

VENTILATION & AIR PRESSURE

Air Ventilation and Pressure is checked daily for
POSITIVE readings to protect the environment
from airborne pathogens from adjacent areas in
the following rooms:
• OR/Procedural Rooms
• Clean central medical and sterile supply
• Sterilization reprocessing rooms
Air Ventilation and Pressure is checked daily for
NEGATIVE readings to protect adjacent
environments from contamination due to
increased concentrations of airborne bacteria,
fungi and viruses in the following rooms:
• Airborne Infection Isolation
• Soiled/decontamination room for central
medical-surgical supply
STERILIZATION/ HIGH LEVEL DISINFECTION/
INSTRUMENT PRE-CLEANING
Sterilization and Disinfection equipment is
inspected annually by Clinical Engineering. The
current annual biomedical sticker date is present.
All Sterilization and Disinfection Equipment
utilized has manufacturer instructions and log
sheets present with listed Model number.
Staff is able to demonstrate sterilization and
disinfection procedures strictly following
manufacturer’s instructions.
Sterilization log sheets have associated Biological
indicators and patient PHI listed which allows
traceability back to individual patients, recall
events and for quality monitoring.
Biological Indicators are run daily and have
current expiration dates. Results of
vials/containers or test strips demonstrate
bacterial spores have been killed.
Sterilized instruments have chemical indicators
present displaying the appropriate color change to
show the item went through the sterilization
process. Hinged instruments are open.
High level disinfection is performed after each
vaginal ultrasound probes and scope use.
High level disinfectants are prepared, stored at the
proper temperature and changed according to
manufacturer instructions for use.
High level disinfectant solutions are tested
according to manufacturer’s instructions using
approved test strips. Current expiration dates are
listed on test strips used and stored disinfectants
Instruments are wiped of gross debris following
use then sprayed &/or immersed in enzymatic
cleaner per manufacturer directions. The
instrument container is puncture proof, has

YES

NO

YES

NO

N/A

N/A

27

Page 53 of 76

COMMENTS

COMMENTS

DATE OF ACTION

DATE OF ACTION

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan
#3
ACHN Laboratory Checklist
Site:

Month/Year:

Conducted by:
Note: “No” responses require corrective action at the Health Center. Please record corrective
action in Comments section followed by the Date of Action.

Laboratory Area

YES

NO

N/A

Infection Control
Hand washing reminder sign at sink.
Approved hand soap and lotion at sinks.
Hand washing or sanitizing takes place
after removing gloves.
All staff is wearing appropriate personal
protective equipment (PPE).
Needles are not recapped.
Red bag container is present and lined.
All sharps are disposed of in sharps
containers.
Sharps containers are in safe secure
location and are below full mark.
Specimens are packaged appropriately
for pick up.
Staff knows what to do in case of
exposure.
Patient Safety
Patient identification is verified with at
least 2 identifiers (name, date of birth,
and / or medical record number) prior to
POCT & specimen collection.
Proper specimen labeling in the presence
of the patient and / or with the patient’s
assistance after verification of correct
identity.
Single use items are disposed of after
single use.
Gloves are worn for all blood draws.
Gloves are changed after each patient.
Latex Allergy kits available for blood
draws.
Clean and sterile items are stored in a
way that avoids errors when obtaining
item from storage
No specimens are left unattended and
visibly accessible.
28

Page 54 of 76

Comments

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#4

Health Center:

2016
Chemical Inventory

Product Name

Manufacturer

Compress Gas

Tank Size

Other – Please List
29

Page 55 of 76

SDS Located
in Global
Harmonizing
Database
Y or N

Number

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#5

AMBULATORY CARE – NATIONAL PATIENT SAFETY AUDIT

I. Patient Identification ( NPSG 01.01.01) Observe 10 for each:
1a. Name & DOB are verified at Registration?:
b. Prior to Administering meds;
b. Prior to Blood draws or Specimen collection;
c. Prior to Provider visit /Procedures;
2. Specimen containers /tubes are labeled with patient
name, DOB and MRN in the presence of the patient.
II. Critical/Panic Level
1. Critical values report is reconciled with patient record

1

2

yes

no

yes
2. Lab exception report is reconciled with patient records
III. Anticoagulation Safety ( NPSG 03.05.01)
Documentation is done in the record of Patients on
anticoagulation drugs (i.e. coumadin, enoxiparin, heparin)
yes
that education material related to drug -food interactions
and potential adverse drug reactions and interactions was
IV. Infection Control
All direct care staff members are compliant with CDC Nail
yes
hygiene guidelines (No artificial nail and Nail length less than
VII. Surgical Site Infection Prevention (NPSG 07.05.01)
Review 10 charts of patients that underwent an invasive or
surgical procedure. Was their documentation of post
procedure instruction and Infection prevention education?

no

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

no

no

VIII. Blood /Blood Component Transfusion (NPSG 01.03.01) Review records of patient's Receiving Rhogam, Blood or other Blood products
1. Is there documentation that Blood &/or blood components
need was verified (i.e. Rhogam, platelets etc.) and matched
to the patient using two qualified personnel (competencied
RN or MD's)prior to adminisration?
2. Are qualified personnel ( competencied RN or MD's) only
verifying and administering Blood &/or Blood component(s)?
Documentation (Chart/Record Review)
Review 10 records for this section
Prohibited abbreviations are not recorded. U, u, IU, Q.D., Q.O.D,
QOD, q.o.d., QD, q.d., qd, qod, MS, MSO4, MgSO4, µg, HS , hs, CC , cc,

Trailing zero (X.0mg), Leading zero (.Xmg), tiw,TIW
Lack of zero (.Xmg), MS, MSo4, MgSo4
UNIVERSAL PROTOCOL
IX. Pre-Procedure Verification (UP 01.01.01)

For section Review 10 records of patient undergoing invasive or surgical proced

1. Is there documentation that Patient ID (name, DOB & MRN)
, Procedure name &/or Procedure site are verified prior to
the procedure?
2. Was a nursing assessment documented (i.e. vital signs and
notation)?
3. Is there signed patient consent present in the record for
the procedure?
X. Site Marking ( UP 01.02.01)
1. The operative site is marked, If applicable (when multiple
locations possible and different location would negatively
affect the patient safety)? * (Note: Site marking not required
if bilat structures removed, or if the person performing the
procedure is continuously with the patient at time of

30

Page 56 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan
#6 HAND HYGIENE AUDIT
Please complete this form if the HCW has contact with the patient or the patient’s environment, i.e., any item that is present in the patient’s room
and that remains in the patient’s room during the observation period. Each entry should be a new HCW-patient interaction, i.e., either a different
HCW or patient room.
Event HCW
Antisepsis
Contact
If yes,
Gloves Gloves
Antisepsis
If yes, Comment
#
was with:
Agent3
Worn
Removed After
Agent3
Before
Contact2
Contact
1
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
U
Other______________
YNU
SA
2
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
Other______________
U
3
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
Other______________
U
YN
4
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
Other______________
U
5
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
Other______________
U
6
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
SA
Other______________
U
7
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
Other______________
U
8
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
Other______________
U
9
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
Other______________
U
10
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
Other______________
U
11
MD Nurse PCA HA PA
YNU
Pt Env
SA
YN
Y N N/A
YNU
SA
Other______________
U

31

Page 57 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#7
Department of Pharmacy Services

Cook County Health & Hospital Systems
MEDICATIONTREATMENT UNIT INSPECTION RECORD

Patient care Unit: _________________ Date: ____________
If you answer ‘NO’ to any of the following items, please identify the number associated with the indicator and the
corresponding comment report.
Yes

1. Medication cabinets, medication carts and medication refrigerators
are locked
2. Discharge medications are in a locked location (cabinet,
medication room, etc
3. Controlled substances AND medications brought from home are
properly stored (Pyxis, Medication Cart, Narcotic Vault, Sent to
Pharmacy per policy, etc.).
4. Medications with light sensitivity are properly stored (brown plastic
bags)
5. Refrigerator:
a. Temperature is logged twice daily
b. Temperature within range (36°F - 46° F) for the last 30 days
c. If NO, were the actions taken documented?
d. Refrigerator/Freezer free of excessive ice/frost
6. All medications are in a locked cabinet (Pyxis, Medication Cart,
etc)
a. If NO, list those medications
7. All medications are within the expiration date.
a. If NO, remove and list those medications I doses which have expired.
8. Checked for outdated items (Pyxis OUTDATE’ icon, etc)
9. High risk medications are labeled with high-risk stickers and are in
their own, separate high-risk labeled bins (i.e. insulin, LASA, etc.)
10. All multiple dose vials that have been opened have opening and
expiration date. (28 day expiration date)
a. If NO, remove medication and list vials which have been
opened, but not dated
11. Is there apparent overstock and/or under stock based on par
stock standard or Pyxis medication dispensing system
12. Patient Specific Bins and other storage trays are properly labeled
(Check medications, expirations, overstock, or any unauthorized
medications or products)
13. Pharmacy (medication) return bin available (Pyxis tower, etc)
14. Identify, locate, secure, and check for use and/or expiration all
applicable i.e. Crash Carts, Transport Boxes or Kits, Anaphylactic
Kits, Disaster Bags, Malignant Hypothermia kit , Emergency kits
and etc.
a. Lock/Kit Number:
15. External medications and disinfectants are stored separately from
internal and injectable medication
16. Did you discuss and review findings with Nurse Coordinator
(initial:_____)
32

Page 58 of 76

No

N/A

Action Taken

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan
Pharmacy Inspector: ___________________________________

#8

Nurse Coordinator____________________

Fire Drill Evaluation
1. Did the person discovering the smoke/fire react properly?
A. Was Code Red announced loudly?
B. Was Code Red announced immediately?
C. Was the pull Box activated? (This is to be a simulation.)
D. Necessary rescue/area check completed?
2. Was a (simulated) 911 call made?
A. Were location specifics given to 911 operators?
3. Were rooms checked?
4. Were doors closed?
5. Were patients directed to the correct exits?
6. Was extinguisher use indicated?
7. Describe what could have been done differently/better?
8. What was done incorrectly?
9. How long to evacuate the entire clinic? Start Time ____ End Time ____
10. Did persons report to location meeting place?
11. Did all personnel on site respond appropriately to the alarm?

List names and titles of persons participating.
Any person regularly scheduled at the site is required to participate in the drill (therefore multiple drills may
need to be held).

33

Page 59 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#9
Ambulatory & Community Health Network of Cook County
AMBULATORY EVALUATION -EMERGENCY PREPARDNESS CRITIQUE FORM

An internal or external emergency occurred on

, at

, A.M. /P.M.,

Type of Emergency (Indicate the type of emergency i.e. weather related, fire, internal or external
emergency etc):
Extent of Emergency: (Explain the extent to which it affected normal ambulatory operating
procedures and its effect on patient care or delivery of services)
Description of Events Surrounding Emergency:
Give a step by step account of all events surrounding the emergency and effects it had on any
aspect of patient care or delivery of routine services. Identify rooms, units, building(s), clinical/non
clinical equipment, utilities, departments/services affected.
CRITICAL AREAS: (Describe all problems identified which resulted in a delay providing patient
services and/or remediation of the emergency in order for the ambulatory to resume normal
operations.)
1.Communications:
• How soon did we detect the
emergency and communicate it to
essential personnel, patients/facilities
and external agencies?
• Were there any issues regarding the
communication process? Were there
any issues regarding communication
devices?
2.Resources and assets:
• Were there issues obtaining necessary
supplies/materials? Supplies include
medical, pharmaceutical, or nonmedical (food, linen, water, fuel,
vehicles).
•
Were there issues managing staff
support (housing, transportation, stress
debriefing/managing staff family support
needs)?
3.Safety and security:
• Internal security and safety operations
that were required once emergency
measures were initiated. (Activities
such as
• controlling access to facility/ controlling
traffic patterns)
4. Staff roles and responsibilities:
• Include human actions indicating what a
person(s) did or did not do to contribute
to the emergency.
• Did staff understand their assigned
role/responsibility?
• Are there training issues?
34
5.Utilities issues: (Physical, Mechanical,
Environmental Conditions)
Page 60 of 76
• Include all conditions which may have

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#10
PCMH AUDIT TOOL
The following criteria have been established to determine clinic/site PCMH readiness status related to
the key milestones. Please answer YES or NO for the following questions based on your observation
and staff interview.
1. Clinic Greeting
_______ Patients are greeted in clinic using site scripting to welcome them to their Medical home.
_______ Patients are greeted on phone using site scripting to welcome them to their Medical home.
2. PCMH Education
_______ Patients are given PCMH brochures
_______ PCMH is described for patients at intake, in waiting room groups, or exam room.
_______Team-based care is used in description of PCMH
_______ Provider information (i.e. Bios) is available for patients. (Encourages provider choice)
3. Site Specific Medical Home Information
_______ GPS or info with names of PCP/Main provider and team members is given
_______ Medical home hours of operation, phone # and after hours contact information is given
_______ Instructions for obtaining medication refills and appointments is given
_______ PCP/Main provider is validated with patient during course of visit. Staff can describe process
when patients desire to switch their PCP/Main provider vs. a single visit change.
4. Self Management Goals
_______ Team member(s) introduce/explain self management goal setting to patients
_______ At least one self management goal is documented in the patient record
_______PCP/Main provider engage patients re: their self management goal(s)
_______ PCP/Main provider incorporate patient self management goals in their treatment plans
5. Team Huddle
_______ Team members have brief huddle prior to clinic session(s)
_______ All team members participate in huddles
_______ Day of care plan or other document is used to guide huddle discussion and patient planning
6. 24/7 Access – Telephone Tree
_______ Patients can send inquiries for PCP/Main provider, team members during and after clinic hours
_______ Responses to routine inquiries during clinic hours occur within 1-2 business days.
_______Afterhours answering service pages are responded to and addressed within 15 min.
_______ Afterhours medical advice is documented in the patient’s chart. Information is relayed to team
members via warm hand-off the following business day. Patients are never told to call back. Team
members perform outreach and facilitate follow up.

35

Page 61 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan
#11

36

Page 62 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

# 12

Review of eMERS Reported Events
Timeline
Managers can:
• View and edit the event report
• Read and audit other manager
reviews
• Consult with managers
• Enter and ‘submit’ their own
reviews commenting on
contributing factors and
corrective actions
• Attach documents

Q/R Managers can:
• Unsubmit a report
• Reject/Delete a report
• Document Harm Score
• Close a report
• Submit reports to the PSO

Review
Event Submitted
in e-MERS

< 48
Hours

Initial
Manager(s)
Review
< 14
Days
Quality/Risk
(Q/R) Manager(s)
Review

< 30
Days
Submission to
PSO

All information provided in these appended materials is compiled at the direction of the Department of Quality and Patient Safety and is privileged and
confidential to be used solely in the course of quality control and for the purpose of reducing morbidity and mortality and improving the quality of patient
care. This confidential Patient Safety Work Product is protected under the Federal Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act and the Illinois Medical
Studies Act.

37

Page 63 of 76

Consultant
Review (if
applicable)

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#13

COMMUNITY SITES/SECURITY VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT
SITE:

COMPLETED BY:

AREA

CAMERA IN
AREA

RISK OF UNAUTHORIZE
ACCESS OR INCIDENT
OCCURING.

SITE PREPAREDNES
PLAN. HOW
EFFECTIVE IS IT?

YES

NO

HIGH
LOW

POOR

FAIR

GOOD

0

3

3

3

2

1

SCORE

DATE:

MOD

2

1

TOTAL

(add total
horizontally)

PARKING LOT CONSIDER
BLIND SPOTS, LIGHTING,
SECURITY FOR PATIENTS AND
STAFF, LOCATION,

LOBBY / WAITING AREA
LIGHTING, PRESENCE OF
SECURITY, ACTIVE TRAFFIC
CONTROL, PATIENT LOAD

LIMITED OR RESTRICTED
ACCESS AREAS:
MEDICATION
STORAGE/VACCINE
REFRIGERATORS,RECORDS
STORAGE,TELECOM ROOM,
MECHANICAL ROOMS,
STORAGE ETC.
PATIENT TREATMENT
AREAS**
LABORATORY**
ADMINISTRATIVE AREAS
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE /
STAFF
HOSTAGE SITUATION
WEAPONS /HANDGUN
/KNIFE ETC. INSIDE THE
CLINIC
NEIGHBORHOOD VIOLENCE

38

Page 64 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#14

ACHN Key Control Log

Agreement:
The below listed key(s) in my possession must be returned to Security prior to resignation,
layoff, discharge leave or retirement.
Key
Number

Signature

Date Issued

39

Page 65 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

#15

Leadership Clinical Surveillance Checklist

Site: ______________________Date____________________ Conducted By: ____________________________________
Any ‘No” response requires corrective action at the health center. Please record corrective action and the date action was taken in
“comment,.”If not completed survey considered incomplete.

MEDICATION STORAGE

NO

YES

N/A

DATE OF
ACTION

COMMENTS

Refrigerator:
a. Temperature is logged daily
b. Temperature within range (36°F - 46° F) or (2 °c –
8 °c) for the last 30 days
c. If NO, were the actions taken documented?
d. Refrigerator/Freezer free of excessive ice/frost
Emergency kit present, lock intact with expiration
date(s) of supplies noted. Checklist completed daily
High risk medications are labeled with high-risk
stickers and are in their own separate high-risk
labeled bins (i.e. insulin, LASA, etc.)
All medications are in a locked cabinet (Pyxis,
Medication Cart, etc)
Pharmacy Medication Treatment Unit Inspection
completed monthly
Compressed gas cylinders are chained or racked
and labeled empty, partial or full
Biohazard containers or bags are available where
needed and used only for medical waste.
Sharps containers are installed at injection location
and are < ¾ full. (Needles are NOT recapped).
LABORATORY

YES

NO

N/A

COMMENTS

DATE OF
ACTION

YES

NO

N/A

COMMENTS

DATE OF
ACTION

YES

NO

N/A

COMMENTS

DATE OF
ACTION

Laboratory Checklist completed monthly
Critical lab and abnormal lab report reconciled with
patient records monthly
CLIA license current and present in laboratory area
Applicable Laboratory Controls are completed daily
when POCT test are performed
All specimens are labeled with pt. name & DOB after
patient verification
Laboratory equipment CE tag current
PATIENT SAFETY
NPSG Audit completed quarterly
Hand Hygiene Audit submitted to IC
monthly/quarterly
DENTAL
*Dental Clinics: Teeth with amalgam filling, x-ray foil
packs are disposed in recycling containers
Lead Aprons are hung in between use and inspected
by physicist annually for cracks and tears
40

Page 66 of 76

 2016
CCHHS – Ambulatory Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement Plan

THIS FINAL PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

41

Page 67 of 76

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2016

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 68 of 76

 COOK COUNTY HEALTH 8: HOSPITALS SYSTEM

    

Toni 5 Cook Coun Health 8: Hospitals System
madam mum, gocggsaatoreae: 
Cook County Board of Commissioners CCI M. Hill Hammock . Chairman
John Jay Shannon, MD Commissioner Jerry Butler Vice Chairman
Chief Executive Officer Ric Estrada
Cook County Health Hospitals System Ada Maw 
Emilio N. Junge

Wayne M. Lemon DPH. FACHE

Cantu? Velasquez

President, Dorene P. Wiese. 
Executive Medical Staff

John H. Stroger Ir. Hospital
of Cook County

Date: June 9, 2016

Dear members of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee of the Board:

Please be advised that the Executive Medical Staff Committee of John H. Stroger, Jr.
Hospital of Cook County, via electronic polling, approved the attached list of medical
staff action items for your consideration. This action was necessary because our meeting
is scheduled after yours on the same day June 14, 2016.

Respectfully,



Ozuru O. Ukoha, MD
President, EMS

 

Ambulatory Community Health Network 0 Col-Inn Het?thfs urine: 0 Cook County Department o! Public Health 
0 John H. Singer, Jr. Hospital 0 Oak Forest Health Igovldent Hospital - Ruth M. Rothsteln CORE Center -

Page 69 of 76

 

countv ??ALh-l
a 

CCi-l HS

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

Medical Staff and Non-Medical Staff Action Items subject to approval by the Quality and
Patient Safety Committee.

INITIAL APPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Initial Physician Appointment Applications

Chawla, Hitesh, MD
Appointment Effective:

Hayes, John, DO
Appointment Effective:

Hsu, Janice, MD
Appointment Effective:

Kato, Caroline, MD
Appointment Effective:

Murphy, Daniel, DO
Appointment Effective:

Teshome, Meron, MD
Appointment Effective:

Medicine/Hospital Medicine
July 1, 2016 thru July 2,2018

Family Medicine
June 14 thru June 13, 2018

Radiology
June 14, 2016 thru June 13, 2018

Radiology
June 14, 2016 thru June 13,2018

Family Medicine
June 14, 2016 thru June 13,2018

Medicine/Hospital Medicine
July 1, 2016 thru July 2,2018

REAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Department of Anesthesiology:

Alexander, Bozana, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Subieto Benito, Gunar, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Depart_ment of Emerqency Medicine:

Kim, Ronald, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Lu, Jenny, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Schindlbeck, Michael, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Skoubis, Andreas, DO
Reappointment Effective:

Item 

Anesthesiology
July 22, 2016 thru July 21,2018

Anesthesiology
July 22, 2016 thru July 21,2018

Emergency Medicine
July 20, 2016 thru July 19, 2018

Emergency Medicine
July 22, 2016 thru July 21,2018

Emergency Medicine
July 22, 2016 thru July 21,2018

Emergency Medicine
July 13, 2016 thru July 12, 2018

Voluntary

Active

Active

Active

Active

Voluntary

Active

Active

Consulting

Active

Active

Service



APPROVED 4
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY MITTEE
ON JUNE 14, 2016

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting ofiune 14, 2016

Page 2 of 6
Page 70 of 76

 

CMK 
6 HOEPITALS SYSTEM

CCH HS

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Reappointment Applications (continued)

Department of Fgmilv Medicine

Cash, MD

Department of Medicine:

Abbo, Elmer, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Aluen Metzner, lrene, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Aziz, Mariam, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Conway, Terrance, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Cohen, Mardge, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Ezike, Chukwuemeka, MD
Reappointment Effective:

llie, lonut, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Jolly, Meenakshi, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Joshi, Amit J., MD
Reappointment Effective:

Licht, Sherry, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Mackie, Orlanda, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Mario, Nevenka, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Nika, Ailda, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Oyedele, Temitope, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Rafiq, Asad, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Item 

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of June 14, 2016

Family Medicine Active
July 20, 2016 thru July 19, 2018
Hospital Medicine Active
August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018
General Medicine Active
August 9, 2016 thru August 8, 2018
Infectious Disease Voluntary
August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018
General Medicine Voluntary
August 9, 2016 thru August 8, 2018
General Medicine Voluntary
August 9, 2016 thru August 8, 2018
General Medicine Active
August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018
General Medicine Active
August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018
Rheumatology Voluntary
July 22, 2016 thru July 21,2018
Nephrology/Hypertension Active
August 9, 2016 thru August 8, 2018
General Medicine Active
August 9, 2016 thru August 8, 2018
General Medicine Active
August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018
General Medicine Active
July 13, 2016 thru July 12, 2018
Rheumatology Voluntary
August 26, 2016 thru August 25, 2018
Infectious Disease Active
August 21, 2016 thru August 20, 2018
Gastroenteroiogy Active
August 21, 2016 thru August 20, 2018

APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY MITTEE

Page 3 of 6
Page 71 of 76

ON JUNE 14, 2016

 

COOK 
svstEH

CCH HS

John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County

Reappointment Applications

Department of Medicine (continued)

Pierre-Louis, Serge, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Warrior, Lakshmi, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Radiology:

Keen, John, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Surgery:

Micco, Alan, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Nichols, Jeffrey, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Olivier, Mildred, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Department of Trauma:

Joseph, Kimberly, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Messer, Thomas, MD
Reappointment Effective:

Item 

Neurology

August 9, 2016 thru August 8, 2018

Neurology

August 21, 2016 thru August 20, 2018

Radiology/Imaging Center
July 22, 2016 thru July 21, 2018

Otolaryngology
July 13, 2016 thru July 12, 2018

Ophthalmology
July 13, 2016 thru July 12, 2018

Ophthalmology
July 13, 2016 thru July 12, 2018

intensive Care
July 22, 2016 thru July 21,2018

Burn Unit
July 22, 2016 thru July 21,2018

Active

Active

Active

Consulting

Active

Active to Consulting

Active

Active



APPROVED

BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY Co EE
ON JUNE 14, 2016

Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of June 14, 2016

Page 4 of 6
Page 72 of 76

   

coox 

 

 

 

 

Toni Preckwinkle .. COOK COUNTY-HEALTH Cook County Health 8: Hospitals System
Presrdent HOSPJTALS SYSTEM Board Members
Cook County Board of Commissioners CC M. Hill Hammock . Chairman
John Jay Shannon, MD Commissioner Jerry Butler . Vice Chairman
Chief Executive Of?cer Ric Estrada
Cook County Health Hospitals System Ada Mary Gugenheim

Emilie N. Junge
Wayne M. Lerner, 
Mary B. Richardson~Lowry
Carmen Veiasquez
Dorene P. Wiese, 

Valerie Hansbrough, MD
President,
Medical Executive Committee
Provident Hospital
Of Cook County

June 10, 2016
Dear Members of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee:
Please be advised that at the Credentials Meeting held on une 7, 2016 the Medical Executive

Committee of Provident Hospital of Cook County recommended the actions on the enclosed list. It is
being presented to you for your consideration.

Respectfully,

om;

Valerie Hansbrough, MD
President, MEC

 

Ambulatory 8: Community Health Network - Cermupagan?hf?rvices i Cook County Department of Public Health 

0 John H. Stranger, Jr. Hospital 0 Oak Forest Health Center Provident Hospital 0 Ruth M. Rethsteln CORE Center -
Page 73 of 76

CGDK 
a. SYSTEM

CC-HHS

 

Provident Hospital of Cook County

Medical Staff and Non-Medical Staff Action Items subject to approval by the Quality and
Patient Safety Committee.

APPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Hsu, Janice, MD Radiology Affiliate
Appointment Effective: June 14, 2016 thru June 13, 2018
Kate, Caroline, DO Radiology Affiliate
Appointment Effective: June 14, 2016 thru June 13, 2018
Mullarkey, Paul, MD Radiology Affiliate
Appointment Effective: June 14, 2016 thru June 13, 2018
Nichols, Jeffrey Surgery Ophthalmology Affiliate
Appointment Effective: June 14, 2016 thru June 13, 2018

EAPPOINTMENT APPLICATIONS

Department of Internal Medicine

Rafiq, Asad. MD Gastroenterology Affiliate
Reappointment Effective: August 21, 2016 thru August 20, 2018

APPROVED
BY THE QUALITY AND PATIENT SAFETY EE

ON JUNE 14, 2016

Item 
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of June 14, 2016
Page 6 of 6

Page 74 of 76

Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting Minutes
June 14, 2016

ATTACHMENT #4

Page 75 of 76

 Summary of Agreements for

 

2016 Presented For ApproyaibPPRoveo
June 14, 2016 

BY BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF THE COOK COUNTY
HEALTH AND SYSTEM

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FTE Contract Length- Max. Ann.
Program residents Reimbursed
Midwestern University-Provident 6.36 1 $583,878
Loyola University Medical Center ?Joint FM
residency 30 1 $2,853,261
Endocrine Surgery 0.5 3 $50,835
Weiss Podiatry Resident to
JSH/Provident/Oak Forest 2.0 3 $36,000
Advocate Christ - Urology 2 1 $75,000

 

 

Page 76 of 76

