Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System held Friday, March
29, 2012 at the hour of 7:30 A.M. at 1900 West Polk Street, in the Second Floor Conference Room, Chicago, Illinois.
I.

Attendance/Call to Order
Acting Chairman Ramirez called the meeting to order.
Present:

Acting Chairman Jorge Ramirez and Directors David A. Ansell, MPH; Hon. Jerry Butler; David
Carvalho; Quin R. Golden; Benn Greenspan, PhD, MPH, FACHE; Sister Sheila Lyne, RSM; Luis
Muñoz, MD, MPH; and Ruth M. Rothstein (9)

Absent:

Chairman Warren L. Batts and Director Heather E. O'Donnell, JD, LLM (2)

Additional attendees and/or presenters were:
Sheila Atkins – Cook County Office of Capital
Planning and Policy
Gina Besenhofer – System Director of Supply
Chain Management
Matt Bickel – Wold Architects and Engineers
Cathy Bodnar – System Chief Compliance Officer
Shirley Bomar-Cole - System Deputy Chief
Operating Officer
Jim DeLisa – System Director of Plant Operations
Patrick T. Driscoll, Jr. – State’s Attorney’s Office
Sylvia Edwards – Oak Forest Health Center
Helen Haynes – System Associate General Counsel
Gladys Lopez - System Interim Director of Human
Resources

II.

Terry Mason, MD – System Chief Medical Officer
Lisa Meador –Deputy Chief of Labor Relations,
Cook County Bureau of Human Resources
Maureen O’Donnell – System Interim Chief Human
Resource Officer and Chief, Cook County
Bureau of Human Resources
Ram Raju, MD, MBA, FACS, FACHE – Chief
Executive Officer
Elizabeth Reidy – System General Counsel
Deborah Santana – Secretary to the Board
Tom Schroeder – System Director of Internal Audit
Joy Wykowski – Chief of Staff to the Chief
Executive Officer

Public Speakers
Acting Chairman Ramirez asked the Secretary to call upon the registered speakers.
The Secretary called upon the following registered speakers:
1.
2.

III.

Omar Gobby
George Blakemore

Interpreter, John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County
Concerned Citizen

Board and Committee Reports
A. Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting, February 24, 2012
Director Butler, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Board of Directors Meeting of February 24, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

B. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, March 6, 2012
Note: this item was considered following the adjournment of closed session.
Director Muñoz, seconded by Director Golden, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting of March 6, 2012. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.
Page 1 of 21

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, March 29, 2012
Page 2

III.

Board and Committee Reports (continued)
C. Minutes of the Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting, March 20, 2012
Director Ansell, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Quality and Patient Safety Committee Meeting of March 20, 2012. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

D. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, March 23, 2012
Note: this item was considered following the adjournment of closed session.
Director Lyne, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the minutes of the
Human Resources Committee Meeting of March 23, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

E. Minutes of the Finance Committee Meeting, March 23, 2012
Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the minutes of
the Finance Committee Meeting of March 23, 2012. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.
Director Carvalho re-stated his PRESENT votes on request numbers 2, 3 and 4, under the
Contracts and Procurement Items contained within the minutes.

IV.

Action Items
A. Contracts and Procurement Items
There were no Contracts and Procurement Items presented for the Board’s consideration.
B. Proposed Resolution – celebrating March 30th as National Doctors Day (Attachment #1)
Dr. Ram Raju, Chief Executive Officer, introduced the item and read the Resolution into the record.
Director Rothstein, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved the approval of the proposed
Resolution celebrating March 30th as National Doctors Day. THE MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

C. Any items listed under Sections III, IV and VII

Page 2 of 21

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, March 29, 2012
Page 3

IV.

Action Items (continued)
D. Proposed Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Cook County Pharmacy Association, Chicago Joint
Board, Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, AFL-CIO-CLC Local 200 (RWDSU Local 200)
representing the Health and Hospitals System Administrative Assistants IIIs and IVs (reviewed at the
Human Resources Committee Meeting on March 23, 2012)
Note: this item was considered following the adjournment of closed session.
Director Rothstein, seconded by Director Butler, moved the approval of the proposed
Collective Bargaining Agreement. THE MOTION CARRIED.
Acting Chairman Ramirez voted PRESENT.
E. Request to Execute Data Sharing Agreement between the Illinois Department of Human Services and
the County of Cook/Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Gina Besenhofer, System Director of Supply Chain Management, presented the request for the Board’s
consideration. Dr. Raju provided additional information regarding the request; he stated that this data sharing
agreement will allow the System to have access to the State’s database for Medicaid applications, in order to
monitor the approval process of pending Medicaid applications submitted by the System.
Director Lyne, seconded by Director Rothstein, moved the approval of the request to
execute the Data Sharing Agreement. THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

V.

Report from Chairman of the Board
A. Board Education – Design Presentation: Oak Forest Health Center (Attachment #2)
The following individuals presented an update on the design of the Oak Forest Health Center: Joy Wykowski,
Chief of Staff to the Chief Executive Officer; Sheila Atkins, Project Director for the Cook County Office of
Capital Planning and Policy; Sylvia Edwards, Executive Director of the Oak Forest Health Center; Shirley
Bomar-Cole, System Deputy Chief Operating Officer; Matt Bickel, representing Wold Architects and
Engineers; and Dr. Terry Mason, System Chief Medical Officer.
Included in the presentation was information on the process, guiding principals, design, timeline and future
plans. It was noted that this information was provided at an Open House event at Oak Forest Health Center
on March 15th.
Following the presentation and discussion of the information, Director Ansell noted that, at a future meeting,
it would be beneficial for the Board to revisit the Strategic Plan that was approved, to see how the System is
currently aligned in its activities. Dr. Raju responded affirmatively; he noted that meetings are beginning to
be held on that subject.

Page 3 of 21

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, March 29, 2012
Page 4

VI.

Report from Chief Executive Officer (Attachment #3)
Dr. Raju provided an update on the following subjects: FY2012 Budget; 1115 Waiver; Oak Forest Health Center;
Public Health Update; Corporate Compliance and HIPAA Education; Oral Health Update; and recognition of
outstanding System employees. The Board reviewed and discussed the information.
As a part of his report, Dr. Raju indicated that he believes it is important to recognize the people who provide
outstanding services at the System. He stated that he received correspondence from a patient who felt that they
received exceptional services from Michelle Dumont, a Medical Intensive Care Unit nurse. He introduced and
thanked Ms. Dumont for her outstanding efforts.
Additionally, Dr. Raju recognized and thanked Jeanene Johnson, System Interim Director of Performance
Improvement, and Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer of John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, for
their efforts and achievements, as outlined in his report.

VII. Closed Session Items
A. **Minutes of the Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting, March 6, 2012
B. **Minutes of the Human Resources Committee Meeting, March 23, 2012
C. Review of Closed Session Board Meeting Minutes
Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Muñoz, moved to recess the regular session and
convene into closed session, pursuant to the following exceptions to the Illinois Open
Meetings Act:
5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1), regarding “the appointment, employment,
compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public
body or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint
lodged against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public
body to determine its validity,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(2), regarding “collective negotiating
matters between the public body and its employees or their representatives, or
deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees,” 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(11), regarding “litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the
particular body has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal, or
when the public body finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case the
basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the closed
meeting,” 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(21), regarding “discussion of minutes of meetings lawfully
closed under this Act, whether for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes or
semi annual review of the minutes as mandated by Section 2.06,” and 5 ILCS
120/2(c)(28), regarding “meetings between internal or external auditors and
governmental audit committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the
discussion involves internal control weaknesses, identification of potential fraud risk
areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards of the United States of America.”

Page 4 of 21

 Minutes of the Meeting of the
CCHHS Board of Directors
Thursday, March 29, 2012
Page 5

VII. Closed Session Items (continued)
On the motion to recess the regular session and convene into closed session, a roll call
was taken, the votes of yeas and nays being as follows:
Yeas:

Acting Chairman Ramirez and Directors Ansell, Butler, Carvalho, Golden,
Greenspan, Lyne, Muñoz and Rothstein (9)

Nays:

None (0)

Absent: Chairman Batts and Director O’Donnell (2)
THE MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY and the Board convened into closed
session.
Acting Chairman Ramirez declared that the closed session was adjourned. The Board
reconvened into regular session.
Director Carvalho, seconded by Director Lyne, moved the approval of the closed session
minutes of the Meeting of the Board of Directors of April 30, 2010. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

VIII. Adjourn
Director Butler, seconded by Director Lyne, moved to adjourn. The motion carried
unanimously and the MEETING ADJOURNED.

Respectfully submitted,
Board of Directors of the
Cook County Health and Hospitals System

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Jorge Ramirez, Acting Chairman
Attest:

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Deborah Santana, Secretary

Page 5 of 21

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
March 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #1

Page 6 of 21

 R-12-02
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
RESOLUTION
Sponsored by
WARREN L. BATTS, CHAIR, JORGE RAMIREZ, VICE CHAIR,
DAVID A. ANSELL, M.D., THE HONORABLE JERRY BUTLER, DAVID CARVALHO,
QUIN R. GOLDEN, BENN GREENSPAN, Ph.D., SISTER SHEILA LYNE, RSM,
LUIS MUNOZ, M.D., HEATHER E. O’DONNELL, AND RUTH M. ROTHSTEIN, DIRECTORS
WHEREAS, the first Doctors Day observance was March 30, 1933 in Winder, Georgia. Eudora Brown
Almond, wife of Dr. Charles B. Almond, decided to set aside a day to honor physicians; and
WHEREAS, March 30th marks the date that Crawford W. Long, M.D., of Jefferson, Georgia, administered the
first ether anesthetic for surgery in 1842. On that day, Dr. Long administered ether anesthesia to a patient and
then operated. Later, the patient would swear that he felt nothing during the surgery and wasn’t aware the
surgery was over until he awoke; and
WHEREAS, on March 30, 1958, a Resolution Commemorating Doctors Day was adopted by the United States
House of Representatives. In 1990, legislation was introduced in the House and Senate to establish a national
Doctors Day. Following overwhelming approval by the United States Senate and the House of
Representatives, on October 30, 1990, President George H. W. Bush signed S.J. RES. #366 (which became
Public Law 101-473) designating March 30, 1991 as "National Doctors Day."; and
WHEREAS, more than the application of science and technology, medicine is a special calling, and those who
have chosen this vocation in order to serve their fellow man understand the tremendous responsibility it entails;
and
WHEREAS, the day-to-day work of healing conducted by physicians has been shaped, in large part, by great
pioneers in medical research. Some of those pioneers have come from the County Health System. Indeed,
today we gratefully remember physicians such as Dr. Daniel Hale Williams and Dr. Bernard Fantus. Dr.
Williams was a surgeon and the first African-American cardiologist. He performed the first successful openheart surgery in the United States and founded Provident Hospital, the first non-segregated hospital in the
United States. Dr. Bernard Fantus, a Hungarian American physician, established the first hospital blood bank
in the United States in 1937 at Cook County Hospital, while he served there as director of the pharmacology
and therapeutics department. These and other celebrated physicians have enabled mankind to make
significant strides in the never-ending fight against disease; and
WHEREAS, in addition to the doctors whose names we easily recognize, there are countless others who carry
on the quiet work of healing each day throughout our Health System. Common to the experience of each of
them, from the trauma surgeon to the specialist in research to the primary care physician, are hard work,
stress, and sacrifice. All those who serve as licensed physicians have engaged in years of study and training,
often at great financial cost. Most endure long and unpredictable hours, and many must cope with the
conflicting demands of work and family life.
WHEREAS, we, as a society, owe a debt of gratitude to our physicians for their sympathy and compassion in
ministering to the sick and in alleviating human suffering.

Page 7 of 21

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals
System, on behalf of the more than five million residents of Cook County served by the System, does hereby
acknowledge March 30, 2012 as National Doctors Day in recognition of the contributions of doctors to
individual lives and communities. We are grateful to you all.
Approved on March 29, 2012 by the Board of Directors of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System

Page 8 of 21

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
March 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #2

Page 9 of 21

 OAK FOREST HEALTH CENTER
CAPITAL RENOVATION PROJECT UPDATE
COOK COUNTY HEALTH & HOSPITALS SYSTEM
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
MARCH 29, 2012

Page 10 of 21

 PROCESS
H
did we gett h
How
here
• Strategic Plan: Vision 2015
Approved by CCHHS Board of Directors June 2010
Approved by Cook County Board of Commissioners July 2010

• Certificate of Need for the Oak Forest Campus
Approved by Illinois Health Facilities and Planning Board August 2011

• Transition to Oak Forest Health Center September 2011
• Wold
W ld Architects
A hi
and
d Engineers
E i
Selected by the Cook County Office of Capital Planning and Policy August 2011
County Procurement Officer approves engagement November 2011

• OFHC Capital Project Subcommittee Initial Meeting December 2011
Clinical Services Subcommittee - Claudia Fegan/Terry Mason
Philosophy/Needs Assessment Subcommittee - Shirley Bomar-Cole/Sylvia Edwards
Steering
g Committee - Carol Schneider/Terry
y Mason

• OFHC Open House March 2012
2
Page 11 of 21

 GUIDING PRINCIPLES
Philosophy of the Oak Forest Health Center
• “Whole-person” care with timely/ready access;
emphasis
h i on care coordination
di ti
and
d communication
i ti
• Maximizing clinical vs.. administrative space with a flexible design
to support
pp
multiple
p providers/services
p
• Design to maximize staffing efficiency, support patient/staff safety
and comply with regulatory/licensure standards
• Waiting areas to address patient and family needs
• Focus on patient flow and establishment of intuitive way finding

3
Page 12 of 21

 DESIGN
Phase II- Ground Floor
•

Maximize existing square footage available on Ground Floor of
Building New E to create new space as follows:
• Diagnostic
Di
ti IImaging
i (5
(5,400
400 SF)
• Central Registration / Waiting / Call Center (2,000 SF)
• Laboratory (660 SF)
• Ca
Care
e Link (3
(370
0S
SF))

• Support guiding principles/philosophy by placing emphasis on
creating functional space focused on the experience of the patient.
• Reinforce objectives for “re-branding” OFHC identity and for
providing high quality services to the south suburbs.
• Anticipate programmatic and functional requirements of subsequent
phases of the renovation; and establish standards for
colors/finishes, way finding, shared staff support space.

4

• Maintain uninterrupted operation of ongoing services during
construction.
Page 13 of 21

 TIME LINE
K Project
P j t Milestones
Mil t
Key
•

Issue Demolition Package Drawings:

April 16, 2012

• Demolition Package Bid Opening:

May 3, 2012

• Demolition Activities:

May – June 2012

• Issue Construction Package Drawings:

May 31
31, 2012

• Construction Package Bid Opening:

June 22, 2012

• Construction Activities:

June – Sept 2012

• Procurement of Equipment and Furniture:

June – Sept 2012

• Construction Substantial Completion:

Sept 25, 2012

• Delivery of Equipment and Furniture:

Sept 2012

• Move-In/Occupancy of Ground Floor:

Sept/Oct 2012

5
Page 14 of 21

 FUTURE
Oak Forest Health Center Campus – the Next Phase
 Immediate Care Center
 Primary Care
 Specialty Care
 Diagnostics – inclusive of Screening Mammography

 Chronic Disease Management
 Farm-Med
F
M d – Relationship
R l ti
hi with
ith Univ.
U i off Illi
Illinois
i Extension
E t
i

Historical Land Survey
 Proposed
p
Markham Project
j

 Oak Forest Preserve Master Plan

6
Page 15 of 21

 Cook County Health and Hospitals System
Minutes of the Board of Directors Meeting
March 29, 2012

ATTACHMENT #3

Page 16 of 21

  
RAM RAJU, MD, MBA, FACHE, FACS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
COOK COUNTY HEALTH AND HOSPITALS SYSTEM 
REPORT TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
March 29, 2012 
 
FY 2012 BUDGET 
Weekly meetings with the finance team to discuss the accounts receivable report for the week prior and 
the level of physician billing continue as well as meetings with the State regarding the status of pending 
Medicaid  applications.    The  Second  Supplemental  Agenda  for  today’s  Board  of  Director’s  meeting  is 
request to execute a Data Sharing Agreement between the Illinois Department of Human Services and 
the  Cook  County  Health  and  Hospitals  System  to  further  assist  the  process.    Progress  in  collecting 
outstanding claims continues through the month of March and actual collections are also expected to 
improve.  The Centralized Business Office has been established at the Oak Forest Campus.  Centralized 
registration  is  being  established  at  multiple  locations  and  centralized  scheduling  is  in  the  process  of 
implementation.   
1115 WAIVER 
On  March  13th  we  had  a  very  constructive  conversation  with  the  Centers  for  Medicaid  &  Medicare 
Services in which CMS agreed to a schedule of biweekly calls regarding the waiver application.  I would 
like to thank Heartland Alliance Outreach, Access Living of Metropolitan Chicago, the Aids Foundation of 
Chicago, and SEIU Local 73/Doctor’s Council for voicing their support for our waiver application at the 
Medicaid  Advisory  Council  Meeting  on  March  16th.    With  the  assistance  of  the  President’s  Office  on 
March 28th we will be traveling to Springfield, Illinois to meet with state legislators regarding the 1115 
Waiver request and the necessary enabling legislation.  
OAK FOREST HEALTH CENTER 
The Capital Committee continues to make progress in the planning of the Oak Forest Health Center.  The 
Board  Education  for  the  March  29th  CCHHS  Board  Meeting  will  be  an  update  on  the  OFHC  Capital 

Page 17 of 21

 Renovation  Project.    The  Immediate  Care  Center  successfully  moved  to  the  New  “E”  Building  on 
February 25th.  On March 15th we held an Open House on the site of the capital project.  The invite list 
was compiled from the OFHC community, religious organizations, public officials, healthcare leadership, 
plus  Southland  Health  Advisory  Council  membership,  and  CCHHS  staff  and  union  leadership.    Tables 
were set‐up with documentation and models throughout the room in order to promote movement and 
discussion and staffed by issue experts illustrating the following: 



OFHC Guiding Principles (CCHHS Leadership) 
Immediate Care Center, New E  Building Plan Configuration (Wold Architecture, 
Engineers and the Cook County Office of Capital Planning & Policy) 

OFHC Services Definition (ACHN Staff, Nursing) 

Oak  Forest  Preserve  Master  Plan/Timetable  (Conservation  Design  Forum 
consultant for Cook County Forest Preserve District) 

General Information table for take‐away pieces including new OFHC brochures, 
screen shot  of CCHHS website, business cards, CareLink, OFHC Lifestyle Center 
flyers (OFHC Public Affairs) 

Commemorative  photo  board  covering  century  of  service  to  south  suburban 
communities. 
 
Discussion  was  lively  and  positive,  with  a  cross‐section  of  CCHHS  staff  including  Dr.  Raju,  System  and 
Leadership, south suburban healthcare and community leadership, and County Commissioners/staff.   A 
photo page of the event will be appearing in the CCHHS newsletter April Note. Apostle Carl White, of the 
Southland  Health  Advisory  Council  and  Southland  Ministerial  Healthcare  Network  (SMHN)  offered  to 
host an upcoming SMHN meeting at the Health Center, with the OFHC capital project renovation plan 
and the guiding principles featured on the agenda.   
PUBLIC HEALTH UPDATE 
The  Cook  County  Department  of  Public  Health  submitted  the  Statement  of  Intent  to  pursue 
accreditation  which  was  accepted  on  February  13,  2012.  The  Accreditation  Team  is  in  the  process  of 
selecting  and/or  developing  the  required  systems  and  documents  to  address  the  standards  and 
measures.  A shared folder system for each of the 12 domains has been implemented allowing the team 
to  review  documents  against  the  criteria.    Outbreaks  of  norovirus  persist  in  suburban  Cook  County. 
Influenza  like  Illness  (ILI)  activity  continues  to  show  an  increasing  trend  with  Influenza  A  as  the 
predominant  circulating  strain.  Hospital  admissions  to  ICUs  for  infections  due  to  influenza  have  also 
increased.  CCDPH continues to collaborate with both the Chicago Department of Public Health and the 
Cook County Department of Homeland Security and Emergency Management in preparing for the NATO 
summit. 
2   P a g e  
 

Page 18 of 21

 CORPORATE COMPLIANCE AND HIPAA EDUCATION 
The CCHHS is committed to do business with honesty and integrity and in compliance with all rules and 
regulations.  Through our Office of Corporate Compliance we’ve developed initiatives and programs to 
communicate  this  commitment.     An  important  initiative  is  Corporate  Compliance  and  Patient  Privacy 
(HIPAA) education. 


The education helps to guide the workforce; it parallels guidance set by the Department of Health 
and Human Services, Office of Inspector General.  



We have implemented this education through an electronic learning management platform.   



The  use  of  an  electronic  learning  management  platform  will  provide,  for  the  first  time,  clear 
monitoring  and  tracking  of  not  only  Corporate  Compliance  and  HIPAA  education  but  all  County 
Curriculum. 

The electronic learning management platform was demonstrated at the Audit Committee Meeting of 
March 6, 2012 and is referenced in the minutes of that committee. 
ORAL HEALTH UDPATE 
On  November  10,  2011  the  CCHHS  Finance  Committee  granted  an  approval  of  payment  for  one‐time 
funds  in  the  amount  of  $1M  to  Community  Health  to  provide  dental  services  to  the  uninsured 
throughout Cook County.  The following is an update on the provision of those services. 
FY 2011 Appropriation 
The agreement with Community Health has been changed from a four year time period to a two year 
time period.  Payment will be made in semi‐annual installments.   The time period was changed due to 
the  additional  funding  approved  through  the  FY  2012  budget  amendment  process.    Currently  a  draft 
contract is under review by Community Health.  Deliverables in the contract under review are as follows: 


Community  Health  will  hire  a  hygienist  to  work  with  volunteer  dentists  caring  for  CCHHS 
patients; 



During  the  two  year  period,  Community  Health  will  renovate  their  Englewood  dental  site  and 
expand hours to allow a CCHHS dentist to see CCHHS patients at the site;  



Community  Health  will  expand  hours  at  their  West  Town  site  to  allow  a  CCHHS  dentist  to  see 
CCHHS patients; 

3   P a g e  
 

Page 19 of 21

 

Community Health will initiate dental services, using volunteer dentists and a paid hygienist, at 
both Robbins and Oak Forest.  Tours of Robbins and Oak Forest have already occurred and an 
assessment of the equipment is in process;  



Community Health will be responsible for all dental supplies provided to CCHHS patients seen at 
Englewood, West Town, Robbins and Oak Forest;   



Community Health will work collaboratively with CCHHS to initiate dental services at a site in the 
northwest suburbs of Cook County. 

FY 2012 Appropriation 
The additional $1M funding facilitated reactivating the Oral Health Business Unit within the Ambulatory 
and Community Health Network (ACHN).  With the approval of the additional funding through the 
FY2012 budget amendment process there has been a commitment from the Cook County Board of 
Commissioners for ongoing oral health funding, enabling CCHHS to hire dental staff and secure supplies 
to expand services offered to ACHN primary care patients beyond extractions.  The services to be 
delivered will be more in line with the CCDPH, Cermak Health Services and the CORE Center scope of 
services which includes fillings, cleanings and prevention. The additional funding approved through the 
FY 2012 budget process was added to the ACHN 260 Account‐Professional Services for oral health 
services.  This was in addition to $300,000 ACHN had budgeted for oral health. 


A request was approved by Dr. Raju to reactivate the Oral Health business unit in ACHN that was 
deactivated  in  FY  2007.    The  $1.3M  was  distributed  to  several  accounts,  creating  a  personnel 
account,  i.e.  Oral  Health  Director,  2  dentists;  2  hygienists  and  2  dental  assistants;  supply 
account; medical equipment and other accounts to support the business unit and provision of 
oral health services across the Health System. 



In addition to personnel, supplies and equipment, the proposed budget provides for a possible 
lease  agreement  for  a  northwest  suburban  dental  site.    Negotiations  are  in  process  with 
Northwest  Community  Hospital,  our  current  partner  for  the  Vista  Health  Center  located  in 
Palatine.  



The transfer of the $1.3M is now under review by the County Budget Director.   



The job description for the Oral Health Director is under review by CCHHS Human Resources and 
will go before the Position Control Committee once the business unit is reactivated.    

4   P a g e  
 

Page 20 of 21

 RECOGNITION 
Jeanene Johnson has served as Interim Director of Performance Improvement for the past two and one‐
half  years.    Her  team  specialized  in  operational  performance  improvement,  decision  support  and 
knowledge management.  Throughout her tenure Jeanene has assisted/led performance improvement 
implementation efforts, served as CCHHS Project Managers on key projects, provided Decision Support 
functions  and  implemented  Siemens  Decision  Support,  and  managed,  enhanced  and  expanded 
management’s use of CCHHS’s knowledge repository, the “Knowledge Web”.  Jeanene has worked very 
closely  with  senior  leadership  for  a  smooth  transition.    I  want  to  thank  Jeanene  and  her  team  for  the 
contributions they have made throughout the Health System. 
Our own Dr. Claudia Fegan, Chief Medical Officer at Stroger Hospital, is the recipient of the 2nd Annual 
Soul  of  Medicine  Award.  The  award  is  given  to  physicians  who  inspire  medical  students  to  work  for 
social  justice.    Given  jointly  by  Physicians  for  Social  Responsibility  &  Physicians  for  National  Health 
Program,  the  organization  tries  to  select  local  members  who  have  been  actively  involved  in  social 
justice.  Physicians for Social Responsibility is the largest physician‐led organization in the U.S. working 
to  prevent  nuclear  war  and  proliferation  and  to  slow,  stop  and  reverse  global  warming  and  toxic 
degradation  of  the  environment.   Physicians  in  the  National  Health  Program  (PNHP)  is  a  single  issue 
organization  advocating  a  universal,  comprehensive  single‐payer  national  health  program.    PNHP  has 
more than 18,000 members and chapters across the United States.  We are proud of Dr. Fegan’s role in  
advocating for the community.  

5   P a g e  
 

Page 21 of 21

 